{"id": "17612488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17612488", "title": "1166 Avenue of the Americas", "text": "1166 Avenue of the Americas\n\n1166 Avenue of the Americas (also known as the International Paper Building) is a tall Class A office building located at 1166 Sixth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. It was completed in 1974 and has 44 floors totaling approximately 1.7 million square feet. Skidmore, Owings & Merrill designed the building, which is the 101st tallest in New York City. It is the headquarters of the Marsh & McLennan Companies, Penton and D. E. Shaw & Co. 5W Public Relations is also a tenant.\n\nThe building was built in partnership with the Tishman Organization (predecessor to Tishman Speyer), Stanley Stahl and Arlen Realty.\n\n"}
{"id": "14452587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14452587", "title": "Account manager", "text": "Account manager\n\nAn account manager is a person who works for a company and is responsible for the management of sales and relationships with particular customers. An account manager maintains the company's existing relationships with a client or group of clients, so that they will continue using the company for business. The account manager does not manage the daily running of the account itself. They manage the relationship with the client of the account(s) they are assigned to. Generally, a client will remain with one account manager throughout the duration of hiring the company. Account managers serve as the interface between the customer service and the sales team in a company. They are assigned a company's existing client accounts. The purpose of being assigned particular clients is to create long term relationships with the portfolio of assigned clients. The account manager serves to understand the customer's demands, plan how to meet these demands, and generate sales for the company as a result.\n\nKey accounts provide the most business because they contain a small number of clients which contribute a large portion of the company's sales. According to research, sales from a company's key accounts have increased from 23% in 1975 to 60% currently.\n\nThe responsibilities of an account manager can vary depending on the industry they work in, size of the company and nature of the business. Each customer account can vary in demands and an account manager may work with brand managers for one account and a media department for another. Account managers usually report directly to the account director or agency director of the activity and status of accounts and transactions. An account manager may also manage a single account or a variety of accounts depending on the requirement of the company. Although the responsibility can vary between companies and between accounts, there are a shared set of common responsibilities which are as follows:\n\n\nThere are situations in which an account manager, for example in advertising firms, is responsible for more than one account and therefore looks after multiple clients. When account locations do not overlap the account manager can be placed at the divisional, district, or territory level. When a sales team has a senior sales manager, the account manager coordinates sales accounts from other departments or specialties. In this scenario, the sales team will work under the direct supervision of influencers and deciders instead of with a buyer.\n\n\nGlobal account managers and national account managers may work together in a hierarchical or matrix structure. The trend is to move responsibility for the major key accounts to the global level.\n\nKey account manager is assigned to a company headquarters to oversee the account team assigned to a particular account. Key account management includes sales but also includes planning and managing the full relationship between a business and its most important customers. An account manager who works in this role will engage in a variety of tasks including project management, coordination, strategic planning, relationship management, negotiation, leadership and innovative development of opportunities, and keeping record of transaction of sale and purchase goods. The tasks may include working with product design and application, logistics, sales support, and marketing.\n\nThe basic assumption for a key account management model is the correct classification of the key accounts. A basic model often used in the period of 1950-1970 was the classification model of Webster. This model has been adapted by Milman and Wilson into a two-dimensional model and was paramount in the period of 1970-1990. Bensaou has tested this model empirically by his research of carmakers in the United States and Japan and made revisions. De Blick synthesized the adaptations into the 4S-model, a key account classification model. By the late 1990s, key account management spread to most B2B (business-to-business) models.\n\nAccount managers can work for small or large companies either corporate, financial, retail, or government for instance. Any company with a specific clients they conduct business with, can employ an account manager. Typical employers can be: \n\nAccount managers usually work in an office setting and can work more than 40 hours weekly. Travel is usually included in the job description. National or global account managers will very likely experience extra travel.\n\nAlthough personality and an aptitude for sales is key, a degree in business, marketing, or related field is typically required and depending on the nature of the account, a background in marketing or media studies may be preferred. Due to each company having different requirements, it is important to obtain information from each potential company of employment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52232631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52232631", "title": "Anas Alam Faizli", "text": "Anas Alam Faizli\n\nDr. Anas Alam Faizli, known as Anas is a Malaysian non-political construction and an upstream Oil and Gas professional, a scholar, an activist, and an author. He holds a post graduate doctorate in Business Administration and is currently a Director of a Malaysian Multi-National Company (MNC), a leading international heavy steel construction company. Anas also serves as the Assistant Honorary Secretary for the Malaysian Oil and Gas Services Council (2016-2018) and is also a certified Oil and Gas Expert by Malaysia's Ministry of Human Resource. Additionally he also co-founded several non-governmental organisations and an economic research think tank. His books are bestseller titled Rich Malaysia, Poor Malaysians and \"Malaysia Kaya, Rakyat Miskin.\"\n\nAnas was born on 5 December 1980 (Hijri Calendar: 27th of Muharram 1401AH) at the Nether Edge Hospital, Sheffield, England as the first child of ten siblings. He was raised in a family of moderate Muslims. Both his parents are lecturers at the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM). Anas’ mother is from Kedah and his father is from Kuala Lumpur. Anas' maternal grandfather, Abdul Rahman bin Ibrahim was a Headmaster of a government school in Simpang Empat, Alor Setar Kedah.\n\nAnas’ paternal grandfather, Mohd Zain bin Abu is of Bugis descent while his paternal grandmother, Siti Hajar binti Othman is of Minangkabau descent. Siti Hajar's father, Haji Othman bin Haji Abdullah, is a nationalist and a freedom fighter, founder of Seruan Azhar of Egypt and also the Malaya newspaper, Majlis. Haji Othman was a close friend of Indonesia's First Vice President, Mohammad Hatta.\nHaji Othman's grandfather, Haji Mohd Taib bin Haji Abdul Samad, is regarded as an influenced tycoon in the early history of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Haji Taib owned tin mines, plantation land and large numbers of houses and shops mostly in Malay Street (Jalan Melayu), Kuala Lumpur. Haji Taib was a close acquaintance of Sultan Abdul Samad. In the late 19th century, Haji Taib was one of the wealthiest merchants and development centre of city, Kampung Baru.\n\nAnas receives his preliminary education from Sekolah Rendah Islam Al-Amin (SRIAA) which was located in Jalan Gurney, Kuala Lumpur. The school was founded by Pertubuhan Jamaah Islah Malaysia (JIM), now known as Pertubuhan Ikram Malaysia (IKRAM). Anas did his lower secondary school in .\n\nAfter his Penilaian Menengah Rendah (PMR) result, he was offered and entrance to the Malay College Kuala Kangsar (MCKK) and Sultan Alam Shah Islamic College (Malay: Kolej Islam Sultan Alam Shah - KISAS) which he accepted the latter. In KISAS, Anas was the President of the International Club and in 1997 he represented the school as part of the debating team for the Piala Perdana Menteri (PPM). The School won Central Zone championship by defeating debaters from the Royal Military College (RMC), Sekolah Seri Puteri (SSP), and Sekolah Alam Shah (SAS). KISAS won third place at national level.\n\nAfter KISAS, Anas pursued his bachelor's degree from the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia. In 2011, he became the pioneer sole graduate with Distinction for Master of Project Management from the Open University Malaysia. In 2015, he again became the pioneer sole graduate for Doctor of Business Administration from the same University.\n\nAnas was chosen as the \"valedictorian\" graduate and delivered a speech representing 7,506 graduates at OUM's 17th Convocation. In his speech, he urged all the graduates to become the candles that light the way for society, to be a leader for their family, their community, in the workplace and outside, and to make their voice heard.\n\nAnas did his internship with IBM for six months in 2000. He joined the Oil and Gas industry with Sime Sembcorp Engineering and left as Assistant Project Manager in 2004. Anas then spent 15 months with Petronas Carigali Sdn Bhd as a Senior Project Controller. After that, Anas served Talisman Malaysia Limited for 10 years in various project management and developmental Oil and Gas roles in Engineering, Construction, Hookup and Commissioning, Offshore and Installation.\n\nIn the ten years, he served two years working onshore Vietnam and two years offshore at the Vietnam-Malaysia border and other assignments. As he is a certified Oil and Gas expert, the media would occasionally get his quote for business related issues on Oil and Gas. After the crude oil price falls in 2014, he joined as Director of a Malaysian Multi-National Company (MNC), a leading international heavy steel construction company in 2015.\n\nAnas is an occasional contributor for The Edge, The Star, Astro Awani and online portals. In 2014, Gerakbudaya published his best-seller book, entitled \"Rich Malaysia, Poor Malaysians: Essays on Energy, Economy and Education\". A Malay version of the book, \"Malaysia Kaya, Rakyat Miskin\" was also published the same year. Both versions was launched by Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, Malaysia's Former Finance Minister and also the Founding Chairman and CEO of Petronas in April 2014.\n\nTengku Razaleigh Hamzah applauded Anas' intellectual discipline in completing the writing which he describes as demanding mental toughness, tenacity and absolute patience. Policy makers, scholars and corporate figures are of the opinion that the views and ideas presented in the book can be usefully adopted for the formulation of policies by political parties and the government.\n\nOn Energy, the book touches on how Petronas plays it roles in its significant contribution to the country. It also explains the history, the regulations and mechanism used and the secret behind Petronas’ success.\n\nOn economy, the book introduces the Malaysia's inequality dilemma, the myth of the rich and poor, high income nation versus low income citizen, the Malaysia's hollow economy conundrum and addresses issue on the foreign workers, education and healthcare. It also explains the concept of free trade, its pros and cons .\n\nOn education, the book advocates revisiting the national education philosophy, the introduction of the Love Pedagogy, promoting reading and critical thinking culture, the introduction of philosophy. It also touches on volunteerism and how the third party can become an agent of democracy.\n\nThe book also offers insightful proposals and shares a way out for the problems facing the country.\n\nThe book was a bestseller for more than six months at Kinokuniya and Borders and is arguably a tour de force in the local intellectual landscape, as a venue for ideas that bridge policies and the hopes of the people, the responsibility of educators and the potential of their students and more important the problems of the present and the potential of a brighter future.\n\nOn 11th May 2017, , Father of UiTM and former deputy of Malaysia's Bank Negara launched the new and expanded edition of Rich Malaysia, Poor Malaysians. He was accompanied by Emeritus Professor Tan Sri Anuwar Ali, Former Vice-Chancellor of Open University Malaysia and Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Tan Sri Dato' Ahmad Fuzi Abdul Razak, Secretary-General of the World Islamic Economic Forum and Professor Tan Sri Dr. Ghauth Jasmon, former Vice-Chancellor of Universiti Malaya.\n\nTan Sri Arshad Ayub highlighted that Malaysia's 60th year of independence is the precise moment that Malaysia is to return to the drawing board. He argued that Anas has initiated the process by bringing forward a multitude of original ideas encompassing energy, economy, and education based on his analysis on the state of the nation and he urged the government, politicians, the civil society, and policy makers to take heed of Anas' powerfully brave book.\n\nThe expanded book is an updated version with 13 additional chapters providing a more holistic coverage on fundamental issues that are currently plaguing Malaysia on healthcare, the foreign workers, environment, the hollow economy, green technology, woman empowerment and others.\n\nAnas is a co-founder of BLINDSPOT, a socio-economic think tank, a group of concerned citizens voicing out the voice of the voiceless - presenting critical, informative data and facts often missed.\n\nAnas was formerly a Founding Chief Executive Officer on the board of Teach for The Needs (TFTN), a non-profit education-based civil society organisation which houses 1,000 volunteers, 300 university students and adopts 12 orphanages.\n\nIn 2013, Astro Awani named Anas as Top Ten social media influencers. That same year, The Malaysian Insider named Anas through Teach For The Needs (TFTN) as Inspiring person of the year. Anas has also been giving public talks and forum nationwide. His rise to fame and his published book came to attract one made up political allegations by a blogging website that he had a secret affair with a female politician, a foreign citizenship and Islamist alliances. However, nothing substantial has been proven.\n"}
{"id": "35014300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35014300", "title": "Anders Beer (engineer)", "text": "Anders Beer (engineer)\n\nAnders Beer (8 July 1875 – 1957) was a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania. He spent his career as chief executive of the stonemasonry company N. S. Beer & Co, founded by his father Nicolai Sivert Beer in 1879. The company was a major exporter of pavement stones globally. It was changed into the public company Beer Sten in 1989. The company was passed down to the next generation (Gerhard Beer), then the next after that (Anders Beer, Jr.).\n\nHe was also a supervisory council of Forsikringsselskapet Viking. He was a member of the gentlemen's skiing club SK Fram since 1906. He died in 1957 and was buried in Ullern.\n"}
{"id": "50366199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50366199", "title": "Anita McCormick Blaine", "text": "Anita McCormick Blaine\n\nAnita Eugenie McCormick Blaine (1866-1954) was an American philanthropist and political activist. An heir to the McCormick Reaping Machine Works fortune built by her father, Cyrus McCormick (1809-1884), Blaine was influential in subsidizing the launch of a number of progressive political causes, including Chicago's Francis W. Parker Elementary School, the New World Foundation, the Progressive Party (1948), and the radical New York newspaper, the \"National Guardian.\"\n\nAnita Eugenie McCormick was born July 4, 1866, the third of five children born to reaping machine inventor and industrialist Cyrus McCormick and his wife, the former Nancy Maria \"Nettie\" Fowler.\n\nWorking upon lessons learned from failed efforts by his father, the Virginia-born Cyrus McCormick had worked to construct a mechanical grain-harvesting device from an early age, fabricating his first crude machine in 1831, when he was just 22 years old. After putting down the project for a time, McCormick returned to refine his mechanical reaper in 1842, beginning to sell the first few commercial machines in that year. McCormick moved his operation to Chicago in 1848 and within five years was well on his way to becoming a prosperous industrialist. By the time of Anita's birth, the family fortune exceeded $4 million.\n\nAnita was born in the East but the Great Chicago Fire of 1871 pulled the McCormicks back to Chicago to help rebuild the family franchise. Her early education was by means of private tutors.\n</ref>. From her early teenage years, McCormick was educated at Misses Grant's Seminary, a conservative Presbyterian religious institution financially supported by McCormick and his fortune, and at Miss Kirkland's Academy, a pedagogically progressive, though economically elite private school, from which she graduated high school. Her enlightened ideas about education in later life seem to have begun there.\n\nSpending much of her time in New York and Europe, Anita McCormick returned to Chicago in October 1887, in the wake of the Haymarket Affair and the growth of Hull House and the municipal reform movement. She became involved in the work of the Howe Street Mission, a philanthropic institution in which young and poorly educated working class women could gather in the evenings to learn sewing, cooking, and other skills and attend informational lectures.\n\nMcCormick felt that the instruction of the Howe Street Mission was largely ineffective and in 1888 she branched out to form a settlement house of her own, renting a nearby apartment building to serve as a meeting place for women and hiring a destitute widow to manage the facility. McCormick's new facility taught cooking and garment-making, an provided a library for reading as well as musical opportunities.\n\nIn 1880 Anita McCormick had met Emmons Blaine (1857-1892), a railroad executive and son of former Republican politician and presidential candidate James G. Blaine. The pair were married in September 1889, with the union between the politically prominent Blaine and wealthy McCormick clans making national society news. The couple had one child, a boy, Emmons Blaine, Jr. (1890-1918), prior to the senior Blaine's sudden death of an intestinal ailment at the age of 35.\n\nIn the 1890s, Anita McCormick Blaine's attention turned to public education, spurred by the forthcoming need of her own child to gain a competent, practical education. Blaine turned a room of her own house into a 10-student kindergarten in 1893, beginning the educational process of her 3-year-old son at home. She immediately began to look outward for further education, becoming acquainted with Francis Wayland Parker, an educational innovator whose Chicago Normal School trained young teachers in child-centered educational methods which emphasized \"illustrative teaching\" using pictures, models, and field trips as well as physical education and crafts over rote memorization methods.\n\nBlaine was instrumental in establishing a school on Chicago's North Side based upon Parker's educational ideas and she would remain a patron of the educator, sponsoring a series of lectures by him in her living room and publishing the talks as an 1890 book, \"The School and Society.\" She would also come to sponsor a teachers' college in Chicago, making a nearly $30,000 commitment over a 5-year period. The effort would eventually be realized as the School of Education of the University of Chicago.\n\nIn the years after the conclusion of World War I, Blaine became a leading public advocate of the League of Nations as an international mechanism for the maintenance of world peace. Following the collapse of the League, Blaine was supportive of the foreign policy efforts of Franklin D. Roosevelt, based upon collective security against the spread of fascism.\n\nFollowing World War II, Blaine was supportive of the United Nations as a world peace institution. She also became a leading financial benefactor of former Vice President Henry C. Wallace and his effort to launch the anti-Cold War Progressive Party.\n\nIn 1954 Anita McCormick Blaine launched a civil rights organization known as the New World Foundation with a $7 million behest. The organization was deeply involved in subsequent years in the effort to end racial segregation in the American South.\n\nAnita McCormick Blaine's papers are housed Wisconsin Historical Society Archives at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. The voluminous material, which includes Blaine's correspondence and writings, is incorporated in 939 archival boxes, 16 cartons, 9 bound volumes, and 1 oversized folio and is open to researchers for in-library use.\n\n"}
{"id": "916879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916879", "title": "Arthur Lee (diplomat)", "text": "Arthur Lee (diplomat)\n\nArthur Lee (20 December 1740 – 12 December 1792) was a physician and opponent of slavery in colonial Virginia in North America who served as an American diplomat during the American Revolutionary War. He was educated in medicine and law at the University of Edinburgh and in London, respectively. After passing the bar, he practiced law in London for several years. He stayed in London during the Revolutionary War, representing the colonies to Britain and France and also serving as an American spy to track their activities. After his return to Virginia, he served as a delegate to the Continental Congress.\n\nBorn in Virginia, Arthur Lee was the youngest son of Hon. Thomas Lee (1690–1750) and Hannah Harrison Ludwell (1701–1750). Three of his five surviving elder brothers, Richard Henry Lee (1732–1794), Francis Lightfoot Lee (1734–1797) and William Lee (1739–1795), also became Revolutionary-era diplomats.\n\nHe attended Eton College in England and studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, where he graduated in 1764. The title description of his thesis is: Dissertatio medica inauguralis, de cortice peruviano: quam ... ex auctoritate ... Gulielmi Robertson ... Academiae Edinburgenae praefecti ... pro gradu doctoratus ... eruditorum examini subjicit, Arthur Lee, Virginiensis. Ad diem septembris [1764] ... – Edinburgi : in aedibus A. Donaldson et J. Reid, MDCCLXIV. – 2 p. l., 47 p. ; 20 cm. In May, 13th 1765 he matriculated at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands.\n\nDuring the latter period, Lee wrote in 1764, \"An Essay in Vindication of the Continental Colonies of America,\" one of his more noted works. He opposed the Townshend acts and became a major proponent of American resistance to the British.\n\nHe studied law in London, passing the bar, and practising there from 1770 to 1776. During this time in London, Lee wrote many influential pamphlets and essays opposing slavery and British continental policies. \n\nIn 1770, Lee in London was named as the Massachusetts correspondent to Britain and France. He began corresponding with Samuel Adams, which began a long friendship. They probably did not meet personally until sometime after 1780. Lee met Benjamin Franklin while he was in London, where Franklin was negotiating on behalf of Pennsylvania interests. Lee criticized Franklin's extravagant lifestyle and told Sam Adams he would never be a good negotiator between a free people and a tyrant. \n\nIn May 1776, he was a guest at the dinner organized by James Boswell that brought together Samuel Johnson, an ardent opponent of the American colonists' cause, and John Wilkes, one of its most prominent British supporters. \nDuring the American Revolution, the Continental Congress appointed Lee as its envoy to Spain and Prussia, but his success was at best mixed. Later, in Paris, after Lee helped negotiate the Treaty of Alliance (1778) with France, he fell out with Benjamin Franklin and Silas Deane. He persuaded Congress to recall Deane to America, but he was himself recalled soon afterward.\n\nIn addition to his diplomatic duties, Lee was arguably one of America's first spies. He gathered information in France and Britain. He also successfully identified Edward Bancroft, secretary to the American legation in Paris, as a British spy. \n\nAfter Lee returned to Virginia, the state in 1782 sent him as a delegate to the Continental Congress. The same year he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 1790, Arthur Lee purchased Lansdowne from Robert Wormeley III. This fine mansion still stands in Urbanna, a small waterfront town on Virginia's Middle Peninsula. It is presently a private residence. Lee died in 1792 and was buried in the rear garden with no stone. He never married and had no children. Plans to reinter him at Stratford Hall never came about. Lansdowne was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974.\n\nArthur Lee was the son of Colonel Thomas Lee, Hon. (1690–1750) of Stratford Hall Plantation, Westmoreland County, Virginia. Thomas married Hannah Harrison Ludwell (1701–1750), the daughter of Colonel Philip Ludwell II (1672–1726) of Green Spring Plantation, and Hannah Harrison (1679–1731).\n\nArthur's father, Thomas, was the son of Colonel Richard Lee II, Esq., known as \"Richard the Scholar\" (1647–1715) and Laetitia Corbin (c. 1657 – 1706). Richard Lee II, was the son of Col. Richard Lee I, Esq., known as \"The Immigrant\" (1618–1664) and Anne Constable (c. 1621 – 1666).\n\nArthur's paternal grandmother, Laetitia, was the daughter of the Lees' neighbor and councillor (attorney), Hon. Henry Corbin, Sr. (1629–1676) and Alice (Eltonhead) Burnham (c. 1627 – 1684).\n\nArthur's paternal great-grandmother, Anne, was the daughter of Thomas Constable; she became a ward of Sir John Thoroughgood.\n\n"}
{"id": "16909782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16909782", "title": "Beyond Culture", "text": "Beyond Culture\n\nBeyond Culture is a 1976 book by American anthropologist Edward T. Hall. \n\n"}
{"id": "1073728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073728", "title": "Bob Haas", "text": "Bob Haas\n\nRobert D. Haas (born 1942) is the Chairman Emeritus of Levi Strauss & Co., son of Walter A. Haas Jr., and the great-great-grandnephew of the company's founder, Levi Strauss.\n\nBorn and raised in San Francisco, Robert (Bob) Haas received a Bachelor of Arts (BA) from the University of California, Berkeley in 1964, where he was Phi Beta Kappa, and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Harvard Graduate School of Business in 1968, where he was named a Baker Scholar. Haas served in the Peace Corps in the Ivory Coast from 1964 to 1966. He was a White House Fellow from 1968 to 1969. After business school, Haas worked as an Associate at McKinsey & Company from 1969 to 1972.\n\nHaas joined Levi Strauss & Co. in 1973 and served in a variety of roles. He was elected to the Board of Directors in 1979 and as President and Chief Executive Officer in 1984. He served in that position until stepping down in 1999. He became Chairman of the Board in 1989 and retired from the Board in 2014.\n\nSales and profitability grew during the period of Haas’s leadership, thanks largely to the expansion of Levi's branded apparel internationally and the creation and rapid growth of the Dockers brand of casual apparel.\n\nIn 1985, Haas returned the company to private ownership. At the time it was announced, the Levi's LBO was the largest in U.S. business history.\n\nDuring his tenure, Haas built upon the ethical traditions of Levi Strauss & Company. During the Great Depression of the 1930s, Robert's grandfather, Walter A. Haas Sr., and great uncle, Daniel E. Koshland Sr., refused to lay off idled employees, risking bankruptcy. Instead they created work projects such as laying wooden floors in the company's factory in San Francisco. Walter Haas Jr. and his brother Peter insisted on running integrated factories in the American South, giving equal treatment to all races during the era of segregation. During his tenure as leader at Levi Strauss, Haas tried to create a corporate culture in which tens of thousands of employees around the world were treated fairly and well. In addition, the company led the way in addressing a range of social and business issues. In 1982, the company became the first prominent business to become involved in addressing the problems of HIV/AIDS, at the time a largely unknown disease. Under his leadership the company pioneered corporate standards for dealing with HIV-positive employees and created employee AIDS awareness programs. Since the early 1980s the Levi Strauss Foundation has donated over to AIDS-oriented non-profits. In 1992, Levi Strauss became the first Fortune 500 company to extend health-care benefits to the unmarried partners of its employees, starting the acceptance of this practice by other leading companies. In that same year the company published the first ever corporate standards governing the treatment of employees in contractor factories around the world. Since then, these guidelines have been largely adopted by the apparel and footwear industries.\n\nIn 2009, Haas was selected as the \"Alumnus of the Year\" of the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nActive in support of his alma mater, he endowed the Haas Scholars Program at UC Berkeley, which funds financial aid eligible, academically talented undergraduates to engage in a sustained research, field-study or creative project in the summer before and during their senior year at Berkeley. Each year, twenty Haas Scholars are selected from all disciplines and departments across the University on the basis of the merit and originality of their project proposals.\n\nHaas is married to the former Colleen Gershon, and they have a daughter, Elise.\n\nHe is a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of California, Berkeley and serves as a Trustee of the Evelyn and Walter A. Haas Jr. Fund. He is a former member of the Trilateral Commission, Trustee of the Ford Foundation, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and Honorary Trustee of the Brookings Institution. In addition, Haas is the former Chairman of Stanford's Humanities and Sciences Council as well as the former president of the Levi Strauss Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19433731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19433731", "title": "Bryan Fairfax, 8th Lord Fairfax of Cameron", "text": "Bryan Fairfax, 8th Lord Fairfax of Cameron\n\nRev. Bryan Fairfax, 8th Lord Fairfax of Cameron (17361802) was a Scottish clergyman and peer. He was a lifelong friend of George Washington and became the first American-born holder of a British peerage.\n\nBryan Fairfax was the son of Col. William Fairfax (1691–1757) of Belvoir and Deborah Clarke (1708–1746). As a young man, Fairfax lived at Belvoir with his father who was the business agent for his cousin, Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron. His brother, George William (1729–1787) and his wife, Sally Cary Fairfax (1730–1811), also lived there and were close neighbors to George Washington's Mount Vernon. As a young man, George Washington and his brother, Lawrence Washington (1718–1752), visited the Fairfax family at Belvoir often and Lord Fairfax employed Washington to join a surveying team of his western lands, in the valley of Virginia.\n\nIn 1793, when his cousin, Robert Fairfax, 7th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, died in 1793, he initially ignored the title. However, while in England in 1798 on other business, he presented the necessary proofs to the House of Lords to claim the title. In 1800, after he had returned to Virginia, the peerage was adjudged, and he became the Eighth Lord Fairfax. After his death in 1802, his widow sued his executor, but the Supreme Court found for the executor in 1809. His son Thomas Fairfax became the 9th Lord Fairfax of Cameron.\n\nIn 1740, he was deeded , and 1741 was deeded , at Little Run or Hunger Run.\n\nIn 1754, Bryan Fairfax clerked for his brother-in-law, John Carlyle (1720–1780), in Alexandria, Virginia, and was appointed as a deputy clerk for Fairfax County. Bryan Fairfax served as a lieutenant in George Washington's militia regiment, in George Mercer's company early in the French and Indian War, but he resigned his commission in 1756. He later served as a justice for Fairfax County at the same time as Washington. Fairfax was an avid foxhunter, and he and Washington often rode together.\n\nIn 1757, he was given Towlston Grange with , in his father's will. As a large landowner, Fairfax was active leasing out his property to smaller farmers, such as Perrygreen Mackness \n\nIn 1772, he deeded a farm, Chattins Run, on Goose Creek, in Fauquier County, Virginia to Washington to repay a debt.\n\nIn 1773, Fairfax deeded Towlston Grange to his daughter Elizabeth and her husband, David Griffith.\n\nWhen the Fairfax Resolves were debated in 1774, Fairfax corresponded with George Washington, the chairman of the committee considering the Resolves.\n\nFairfax was torn over the question of American independence during the American Revolutionary War. On his own in 1777, he tried to travel to England. He was arrested in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, for refusing to sign a loyalty oath. However, he wrote to his good friend, George Washington, who sent him a pass to travel between the lines. In New York, British officials also required a loyalty oath, to board ship, which he refused to take. With his attempt thwarted, on his return trip home, he visited Washington, at Valley Forge.\n\nWhen the Fairfax Resolves were debated in 1774, Fairfax sent letters to George Washington, the chairman of the committee considering the Resolves, giving reasons why they should not be adopted:\n\nFor I think myself bound to oppose violent measures now. The entering upon a Plan of having no Trade would be an arduous undertaking. I mean if persisted in, and if once entered upon it ought to be strictly kept. I therefore think it would be more proper to try first what Effect a petition might have toward obtaining a repeal of the Duty.\n\nHowever, Washington responded:\n\nAs to your political sentiments, I would heartily join you in them, so far as relates to a humble and dutiful petition to the throne, provided there was the most distant hope of success. But have we not tried this already? Have we not addressed the Lords, and remonstrated to the Commons? And to what end? Did they deign to look at our petitions? Does it not appear, as clear as the sun in its meridan brightness, that there is a regular, systematic plan formed to fix the right & practise of taxation upon us?\n\nBut he added:\n\nBryan Fairfax respectfully disagreed:\n\nThere is a new opinion now lately advanced in Virginia that the Parliament have no right to make any or scarce any Laws binding on the Colonies. It has given me much Uneasiness. For altho' I wish as much as any one that we were legally exempted from it, yet I hold it clearly that we ought to abide by our Constitution. The common Consent and Acquiescence in the Colonies for such a Length of time is to me a clear Proof of their having a Right. And altho' it is said that it has only been exercised in Matters of Trade, it will be found to be a Mistake.\n\nLater during September, 1777, Fairfax was detained in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. However, he wrote to his Washington, who sent him a pass to travel between the lines:\n\nWashington wrote him back: \n\nThe difference in our political Sentiments never made any change in my friendship for you, and the favorable Sentiments I ever entertained of your hon'r, leaves me without a doubt that you would say any thing, or do any thing injurious to the cause we are engaged in after having pledged your word to the contrary. I therefore give my consent readily ...\n\nIn 1789, he became an ordained priest in the Episcopal Church, serving as rector of Christ Church from 1790 to 1792. In 1790, he built Ash Grove, on Leesburg Pike, (2 miles west of Tysons Corner), for his son, Thomas Fairfax. It was sold to James Sherman in 1850.\n\nGeorge Washington's last meal away from Mount Vernon, on December 7, 1799 was with Fairfax at Mount Eagle.; He was among the last guests at Mount Vernon, on December 11, 1799, before Washington died. He was one of the principal mourners at Washington's funeral, and Washington left him a bible in his will.\n\nIn 1757, after a whirlwind social scene in Westmoreland and Essex County, his brother-in-law John Carlyle caught up with him in the Annapolis gaol and brought him back to Belvoir.\n\nIn 1759, he married Elizabeth Cary (1738–1778), daughter of Colonel Wilson Cary and Sarah Pate. Elizabeth was the sister of his brother's wife, Sally Cary Fairfax. Together, Bryan and Elizabeth had three children:\n\nAfter his wives death, Fairfax married Jennie Dennison (d. 1805). With her, he had another daughter:\n\nFrom 1760 until 1765, Fairfax lived at Greenhill (Accotink Creek and Back Road, now Telegraph Road). He later moved to Towlston Grange (Difficult Run and Leesburg Pike, now Route 7), where he lived from 1768 until 1790. In 1790, he moved to Mount Eagle, (south of Hunting Creek, and Alexandria), where he lived until his death.\n\nOn rap musician Logic's 2017 album \"Everybody\" in the song \"Waiting Room,\" Bryan Fairfax is described as the next reincarnation of the character Atom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18020104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18020104", "title": "California's 24th State Senate district", "text": "California's 24th State Senate district\n\nCalifornia's 24th State Senate district is one of 40 California State Senate districts. It is currently represented by Democrat Maria Elena Durazo of Los Angeles.\n\nThe district encompasses central Los Angeles and its immediate environs, most notably East Los Angeles, The district is heavily Latino with a sizable Asian population.\n\nLos Angeles County – \"9.5%\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7356297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7356297", "title": "Cameron-Ramsay-Fairfax-Lucy baronets", "text": "Cameron-Ramsay-Fairfax-Lucy baronets\n\nThe Fairfax, later Ramsay-Fairfax, later Cameron-Ramsay-Fairfax-Lucy Baronetcy, of The Holmes in the County of Roxburgh, is a title in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 14 March 1836 for Henry Fairfax, in honour of his father, Vice-Admiral Sir William George Fairfax. The second Baronet assumed the additional surname of Ramsay in 1876, which was the maiden name of his maternal grandmother. The third Baronet assumed by Royal Licence the additional surname of Lucy in 1892 after his marriage to Ada Christina Lucy, daughter and heiress of Henry Spencer Lucy. In 1921 he added by Royal licence the additional surname of Cameron, making this quadruple-barrelled name a notable example of the British tradition of concatenated surnames.\n\nThe sixth Baronet was the husband of Lucinda Lambton, architectural writer, between 1986 and 1989.\n\nCharlecote Park in the village of Charlecote in Warwickshire came into the Fairfax family through the marriage of the third Baronet to Ada Christina Lucy. The previous owners of Charlecote Park, the Lucy family, had become extinct in the male line. In the 20th century the family fell on harder times and they gave Charlecote Park to the National Trust.\n\nThe Lords Fairfax of Cameron are members of another branch of the Fairfax family.\n\n\nThe heir apparent to the baronetcy is Patrick Samuel Thomas Fulke Cameron-Ramsay-Fairfax-Lucy (born 1995).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1241849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1241849", "title": "Canadian Car of the Year", "text": "Canadian Car of the Year\n\nCanadian Car of the Year winners, as chosen by the Automobile Journalists Association of Canada:\n\n"}
{"id": "22918325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22918325", "title": "Carlos Heller", "text": "Carlos Heller\n\nCarlos Heller (born October 17, 1940) is an Argentine executive, cooperative banking leader, and politician.\n\nCarlos Heller was born in rural Villa Dominguez (near Villaguay, Entre Ríos Province), in 1940, to a Jewish family. The Hellers relocated to Buenos Aires in 1950, and Carlos completed his secondary schooling in a vocational school. He married Ether Sosa in 1962, and the couple had two children. Losing his post in an auto parts manufacturer due to layoffs, Heller was hired as an administrative assistant in one of Buenos Aires' then-numerous credit unions, in 1963; in 1974, he was named to the board of directors of the \"Instituto Movilizador de Fondos Cooperativos\" (Argentine credit unions' coordinating body).\n\nThe military dictatorship installed in 1976 brought with it an ultra-conservative Economy Minister, José Alfredo Martínez de Hoz. Following a round of wage freezes (amid 400% inflation), Martínez de Hoz further threatened community banks in February 1977 with his Financial Entities Law. The measure prohibited non-profit banking and raised minimum capital requirements to US$10 million, both of which precluded most smaller credit unions in the country at the time. This and further measures enacted by the Economy Minister in 1977 encouraged the dramatic growth of investment banking in Argentina - particularly the financing of speculation. This adversely affected credit unions further by allowing larger, commercial banks to offer depositors exotic investment vehicles with high yields. As credit unions closed, Heller and other leaders in the sector met in a Villa Ortúzar co-op in 1978 to discuss the creation of a unified credit union; in November, they petitioned the Central Bank of Argentina to charter \"Banco Credicoop\". Receiving the Central Bank's charter in February 1979, the new institution named Carlos Heller its first General Manager. \n\nEven as community banks closed, unregulated investment banks proliferated in Argentina during the late 1970s; the practice collapsed between 1980 and 1982, however, and hundreds of these unregulated financial houses, as well as numerous banks, closed.\n\nAntonio Alegre invited Heller to run with him for the vice-presidency of the Boca Juniors football team, one of Argentina's (and the world's) most prominent. Elected in 1985, Alegre and Heller inherited a financially insolvent football club and a stadium unable to meet municipal safety requirements. Selling land near Buenos Aires' waterfront for US$21 million, they were able to recover the club's finances and refurbish the iconic Bombonera stadium. The duo was narrowly defeated for re-election by Mauricio Macri, in December 1995. Heller has been nominated numerous times for the presidency of the Argentine Football Association (AFA), though his prospective candidacy has been reportedly opposed by the AFA's longtime head, Julio Grondona.\n\nLong a socialist, Heller publicly entered the fractious realm of Argentine politics in 2004, when he joined the Rosario Group, a left-leaning advocacy group. Heller formed the Solidary Party ahead of the 2007 elections, obtaining the support of Congressman Miguel Bonasso and former Buenos Aires Mayor Aníbal Ibarra, who had been impeached a year earlier over accusations of negligence in a tragic New Year's Eve 2004 nightclub fire. Heller was Daniel Filmus' running mate for the post of Mayor of Buenos Aires. A close ally of President Néstor Kirchner, Filmus proceeded to a runoff election; but he and Heller were amply defeated by the center-right Republican Proposal candidate, Mauricio Macri. \n\nFor the Argentine legislative elections of 2009 Heller became a candidate for a seat at the lower chamber for the City of Buenos Aires. His candidacy was on top of the joint ticket of his own Solidarity Party (PSOL) and the Kirchnerist Front for Victory. In one of the most important and competitive electoral districts of Argentina, Heller secured a seat in Congress obtaining 12% of the vote, its ticket placed fourth.\n\n"}
{"id": "43337240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43337240", "title": "Central Park Tower", "text": "Central Park Tower\n\nCentral Park Tower (also known as the Nordstrom Tower and 225 West 57th Street) is a supertall mixed-use commercial/residential project being developed by the Extell Development Company and Shanghai Municipal Investment Group in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, in the U.S. state of New York. The building will rise to the roof. Upon completion, Central Park Tower will become the second-tallest skyscraper in the United States and the tallest by roof height in the United States, surpassing the Willis Tower. The building is also notable for its former proposed architectural height of , one foot shorter than the symbolic height of One World Trade Center.\n\nThe building is designed by Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture. The first seven floors of the tower will be anchored by New York City's first Nordstrom department store. Floors eight to twelve will house amenity spaces for residents. Due to another residential project, 220 Central Park South, under construction directly across the street from 225 West 57th Street, Extell purchased air rights to build a cantilever over the Art Students League of New York's building, to which the League's members voted in favor. Official renderings were revealed on New York YIMBY on April 20, 2015. According to an announcement on June 25, 2015, the ornamental spire was officially removed from the design. The building will have 95 habitable floors.\nA lawsuit was filed by the Art Students League, against their board for selling the rights to build the tower. However, the State Supreme Court judge dismissed the case stating that there was not enough evidence to support the claims of the 200 league members.\n\nA 3,000 pound glass panel standing at the ground floor tipped over on top of a security guard at the building's construction site on May 26, 2018. The security guard was declared dead at the hospital. A construction worker at the scene had tried to rescue the security guard, and ended up fracturing his right foot. After the incident, the New York City Department of Buildings ordered a halt on all construction work at the site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24580536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580536", "title": "Cobalt", "text": "Cobalt\n\nCobalt is a chemical element with symbol Co and atomic number 27. Like nickel, cobalt is found in the Earth's crust only in chemically combined form, save for small deposits found in alloys of natural meteoric iron. The free element, produced by reductive smelting, is a hard, lustrous, silver-gray metal.\n\nCobalt-based blue pigments (cobalt blue) have been used since ancient times for jewelry and paints, and to impart a distinctive blue tint to glass, but the color was later thought by alchemists to be due to the known metal bismuth. Miners had long used the name \"kobold ore\" (German for \"goblin ore\") for some of the blue-pigment producing minerals; they were so named because they were poor in known metals, and gave poisonous arsenic-containing fumes when smelted. In 1735, such ores were found to be reducible to a new metal (the first discovered since ancient times), and this was ultimately named for the \"kobold\".\n\nToday, some cobalt is produced specifically from one of a number of metallic-lustered ores, such as for example cobaltite (CoAsS). The element is however more usually produced as a by-product of copper and nickel mining. The copper belt in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia yields most of the global cobalt production. The DRC alone accounted for more than 50% of world production in 2016 (123,000 tonnes), according to Natural Resources Canada.\n\nCobalt is primarily used in the manufacture of magnetic, wear-resistant and high-strength alloys. The compounds cobalt silicate and cobalt(II) aluminate (CoAlO, cobalt blue) give a distinctive deep blue color to glass, ceramics, inks, paints and varnishes. Cobalt occurs naturally as only one stable isotope, cobalt-59. Cobalt-60 is a commercially important radioisotope, used as a radioactive tracer and for the production of high energy gamma rays.\n\nCobalt is the active center of a group of coenzymes called cobalamins. vitamin B, the best-known example of the type, is an essential vitamin for all animals. Cobalt in inorganic form is also a micronutrient for bacteria, algae, and fungi.\n\nCobalt is a ferromagnetic metal with a specific gravity of 8.9. The Curie temperature is and the magnetic moment is 1.6–1.7 Bohr magnetons per atom. Cobalt has a relative permeability two-thirds that of iron. Metallic cobalt occurs as two crystallographic structures: hcp and fcc. The ideal transition temperature between the hcp and fcc structures is , but in practice the energy difference between them is so small that random intergrowth of the two is common.\n\nCobalt is a weakly reducing metal that is protected from oxidation by a passivating oxide film. It is attacked by halogens and sulfur. Heating in oxygen produces CoO which loses oxygen at to give the monoxide CoO. The metal reacts with fluorine (F) at 520 K to give CoF; with chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br) and iodine (I), producing equivalent binary halides. It does not react with hydrogen gas (H) or nitrogen gas (N) even when heated, but it does react with boron, carbon, phosphorus, arsenic and sulfur. At ordinary temperatures, it reacts slowly with mineral acids, and very slowly with moist, but not with dry, air.\n\nCommon oxidation states of cobalt include +2 and +3, although compounds with oxidation states ranging from −3 to +5 are also known. A common oxidation state for simple compounds is +2 (cobalt(II)). These salts form the pink-colored metal aquo complex [Co(HO)] in water. Addition of chloride gives the intensely blue . In a borax bead flame test, cobalt shows deep blue in both oxidizing and reducing flames.\n\nSeveral oxides of cobalt are known. Green cobalt(II) oxide (CoO) has rocksalt structure. It is readily oxidized with water and oxygen to brown cobalt(III) hydroxide (Co(OH)). At temperatures of 600–700 °C, CoO oxidizes to the blue cobalt(II,III) oxide (CoO), which has a spinel structure. Black cobalt(III) oxide (CoO) is also known. Cobalt oxides are antiferromagnetic at low temperature: CoO (Néel temperature 291 K) and CoO (Néel temperature: 40 K), which is analogous to magnetite (FeO), with a mixture of +2 and +3 oxidation states.\n\nThe principal chalcogenides of cobalt include the black cobalt(II) sulfides, CoS, which adopts a pyrite-like structure, and cobalt(III) sulfide (CoS).\n\nFour dihalides of cobalt(II) are known: cobalt(II) fluoride (CoF, pink), cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl, blue), cobalt(II) bromide (CoBr, green), cobalt(II) iodide (CoI, blue-black). These halides exist in anhydrous and hydrated forms. Whereas the anhydrous dichloride is blue, the hydrate is red.\n\nThe reduction potential for the reaction + e → is +1.92 V, beyond that for chlorine to chloride, +1.36 V. Consequently, cobalt(III) and chloride would result in the cobalt(III) being reduced to cobalt(II). Because the reduction potential for fluorine to fluoride is so high, +2.87 V, cobalt(III) fluoride is one of the few simple stable cobalt(III) compounds. Cobalt(III) fluoride, which is used in some fluorination reactions, reacts vigorously with water.\nAs for all metals, molecular compounds and polyatomic ions of cobalt are classified as coordination complexes, that is, molecules or ions that contain cobalt linked to several ligands. The principles of electronegativity and hardness–softness of a series of ligands can be used to explain the usual oxidation state of cobalt. For example, Co complexes tend to have ammine ligands. Because phosphorus is softer than nitrogen, phosphine ligands tend to feature the softer Co and Co, an example being tris(triphenylphosphine)cobalt(I) chloride ((P(CH))CoCl). The more electronegative (and harder) oxide and fluoride can stabilize Co and Co derivatives, e.g. caesium hexafluorocobaltate (CsCoF) and potassium percobaltate (KCoO).\n\nAlfred Werner, a Nobel-prize winning pioneer in coordination chemistry, worked with compounds of empirical formula [Co(NH)]Cl. One of the isomers determined was cobalt(III) hexammine chloride. This coordination complex, a typical Werner-type complex, consists of a central cobalt atom coordinated by six ammine orthogonal ligands and three chloride counteranions. Using chelating ethylenediamine ligands in place of ammonia gives tris(ethylenediamine)cobalt(III) chloride ([Co(en)]Cl), which was one of the first coordination complexes to be resolved into optical isomers. The complex exists in the right- and left-handed forms of a \"three-bladed propeller\". This complex was first isolated by Werner as yellow-gold needle-like crystals.\n\nCobaltocene is a structural analog to ferrocene, with cobalt in place of iron. Cobaltocene is much more sensitive to oxidation than ferrocene. Cobalt carbonyl (Co(CO)) is a catalyst in carbonylation and hydrosilylation reactions. Vitamin B (see below) is an organometallic compound found in nature and is the only vitamin that contains a metal atom. An example of an alkylcobalt complex in the otherwise uncommon +4 oxidation state of cobalt is the homoleptic complex (Co(1-norb)), a transition metal-alkyl complex that is notable for its stability to β-hydrogen elimination. The cobalt(III) and cobalt(V) complexes [Li(THF)][Co(1-norb)] and [Co(1-norb)][BF] are also known.\n\nCo is the only stable cobalt isotope and the only isotope that exists naturally on Earth. Twenty-two radioisotopes have been characterized; the most stable, Co has a half-life of 5.2714 years, and Co has a half-life of 271.8 days, Co a half-life of 77.27 days, and Co a half-life of 70.86 days. All the other radioactive isotopes of cobalt have half-lives shorter than 18 hours, and in most cases shorter than 1 second. This element also has 4 meta states, all of which have half-lives shorter than 15 minutes.\n\nThe isotopes of cobalt range in atomic weight from 50 u (Co) to 73 u (Co). The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope, Co, is electron capture and the primary mode of decay in isotopes with atomic mass greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay. The primary decay products below Co are element 26 (iron) isotopes; above that the decay products are element 28 (nickel) isotopes.\n\nCobalt compounds have been used for centuries to impart a rich blue color to glass, glazes, and ceramics. Cobalt has been detected in Egyptian sculpture, Persian jewelry from the third millennium BC, in the ruins of Pompeii, destroyed in 79 AD, and in China, dating from the Tang dynasty (618–907 AD) and the Ming dynasty (1368–1644 AD).\n\nCobalt has been used to color glass since the Bronze Age. The excavation of the Uluburun shipwreck yielded an ingot of blue glass, cast during the 14th century BC. Blue glass from Egypt was either colored with copper, iron, or cobalt. The oldest cobalt-colored glass is from the eighteenth dynasty of Egypt (1550–1292 BC). The source for the cobalt the Egyptians used is not known.\n\nThe word \"cobalt\" is derived from the German \"\", from \"kobold\" meaning \"goblin\", a superstitious term used for the ore of cobalt by miners. The first attempts to smelt those ores for copper or nickel failed, yielding simply powder (cobalt(II) oxide) instead. Because the primary ores of cobalt always contain arsenic, smelting the ore oxidized the arsenic into the highly toxic and volatile arsenic oxide, adding to the notoriety of the ore.\n\nSwedish chemist Georg Brandt (1694–1768) is credited with discovering cobalt circa 1735, showing it to be a previously unknown element, different from bismuth and other traditional metals. Brandt called it a new \"semi-metal\". He showed that compounds of cobalt metal were the source of the blue color in glass, which previously had been attributed to the bismuth found with cobalt. Cobalt became the first metal to be discovered since the pre-historical period. All other known metals (iron, copper, silver, gold, zinc, mercury, tin, lead and bismuth) had no recorded discoverers.\n\nDuring the 19th century, a significant part of the world's production of cobalt blue (a dye made with cobalt compounds and alumina) and smalt (cobalt glass powdered for use for pigment purposes in ceramics and painting) was carried out at the Norwegian Blaafarveværket. The first mines for the production of smalt in the 16th century were located in Norway, Sweden, Saxony and Hungary. With the discovery of cobalt ore in New Caledonia in 1864, the mining of cobalt in Europe declined. With the discovery of ore deposits in Ontario, Canada in 1904 and the discovery of even larger deposits in the Katanga Province in the Congo in 1914, the mining operations shifted again. When the Shaba conflict started in 1978, the copper mines of Katanga Province nearly stopped production. The impact on the world cobalt economy from this conflict was smaller than expected: cobalt is a rare metal, the pigment is highly toxic, and the industry had already established effective ways for recycling cobalt materials. In some cases, industry was able to change to cobalt-free alternatives.\n\nIn 1938, John Livingood and Glenn T. Seaborg discovered the radioisotope cobalt-60. This isotope was famously used at Columbia University in the 1950s to establish parity violation in radioactive beta decay.\n\nAfter World War II, the US wanted to guarantee the supply of cobalt ore for military uses (as the Germans had been doing) and prospected for cobalt within the U.S. border. An adequate supply of the ore was found in Idaho near Blackbird canyon in the side of a mountain. The firm Calera Mining Company started production at the site.\n\nThe stable form of cobalt is produced in supernovas through the r-process. It comprises 0.0029% of the Earth's crust. Free cobalt (the native metal) is not found on Earth because of the oxygen in the atmosphere and the chlorine in the ocean. Both are abundant enough in the upper layers of the Earth's crust to prevent native metal cobalt from forming. Except as recently delivered in meteoric iron, pure cobalt in native metal form is unknown on Earth. The element has a medium abundance but natural compounds of cobalt are numerous and all amounts of cobalt compounds are found in most rocks, soil, plants, and animals.\n\nIn nature, cobalt is frequently associated with nickel. Both are characteristic components of meteoric iron, though cobalt is much less abundant in iron meteorites than nickel. As with nickel, cobalt in meteoric iron alloys may have been well enough protected from oxygen and moisture to remain as the free (but alloyed) metal, though neither element is seen in that form in the ancient terrestrial crust.\n\nCobalt in compound form occurs in copper and nickel minerals. It is the major metallic component that combines with sulfur and arsenic in the sulfidic cobaltite (CoAsS), safflorite (CoAs), glaucodot ((Co,Fe)AsS), and skutterudite (CoAs) minerals. The mineral cattierite is similar to pyrite and occurs together with vaesite in the copper deposits of Katanga Province. When it reaches the atmosphere, weathering occurs; the sulfide minerals oxidize and form pink erythrite (\"cobalt glance\": Co(AsO)·8HO) and spherocobaltite (CoCO).\n\nCobalt is also a constituent of tobacco smoke. The tobacco plant readily absorbs and accumulates heavy metals like cobalt from the surrounding soil in its leaves. These are subsequently inhaled during tobacco smoking.\n\nThe main ores of cobalt are cobaltite, erythrite, glaucodot and skutterudite (see above), but most cobalt is obtained by reducing the cobalt by-products of nickel and copper mining and smelting.\n\nSince cobalt is generally produced as a by-product, the supply of cobalt depends to a great extent on the economic feasibility of copper and nickel mining in a given market. Demand for cobalt was projected to grow 6% in 2017.\n\nSeveral methods exist to separate cobalt from copper and nickel, depending on the concentration of cobalt and the exact composition of the used ore. One method is froth flotation, in which surfactants bind to different ore components, leading to an enrichment of cobalt ores. Subsequent roasting converts the ores to cobalt sulfate, and the copper and the iron are oxidized to the oxide. Leaching with water extracts the sulfate together with the arsenates. The residues are further leached with sulfuric acid, yielding a solution of copper sulfate. Cobalt can also be leached from the slag of copper smelting.\n\nThe products of the above-mentioned processes are transformed into the cobalt oxide (CoO). This oxide is reduced to metal by the aluminothermic reaction or reduction with carbon in a blast furnace.\n\nThe United States Geological Survey estimates world reserves of cobalt at 7,100,000 metric tons. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) currently produces 63% of the world’s cobalt. This market share may reach 73% by 2025 if planned expansions by mining producers like Glencore Plc take place as expected. But by 2030, global demand could be 47 times more than it was in 2017, Bloomberg New Energy Finance has estimated.\n\nChanges that Congo made to mining laws in 2002 led did attract investment in Congolese copper and cobalt projects. However Glencore dominates the coltan market in DRC. Its Mutanda mine shipped 24,500 tons of cobalt from its Mutanda mine last year, 40% of Congo DRC’s output and nearly a quarter of global production. T Glencore’s Katanga Mining project is resuming as well and should produce 300,000 tons of copper and 20,000 tons of cobalt by 2019, according to Glencore.\n\nIn 2005, the top producer of cobalt was the copper deposits in the Democratic Republic of the Congo's Katanga Province. Formerly Shaba province, the area had almost 40% of global reserves, reported the British Geological Survey in 2009. By 2015, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) supplied 60% of world cobalt production, 32,000 tons at $20,000 to $26,000 per ton. Recent growth in production could at least partly be due to how low mining production fell during DRC Congo's very violent civil wars in the early 2000s, or to the changes the country made to its Mining Code in 2002 to encourage foreign and multinational investment and which did bring in a number of investors, including Glencore. Three of its current Congo projects \nArtisanal mining supplied 10% to 25% of the DRC production. Some 100,000 cobalt miners in Congo DRC use hand tools to dig hundreds of feet, with little planning and fewer safety measures, say workers and government and NGO officials, as well as Washington Post reporters' observations on visits to isolated mines. The lack of safety precautions frequently causes injuries or death. Mining pollutes the vicinity and exposes local wildlife and indigenous communities to toxic metals thought to cause birth defects and breathing difficulties, according to health officials.\n\nHuman rights activists have alleged, and investigative journalism reported confirmation, that child labor is used in mining cobalt from African artisanal mines. This revelation prompted cell phone maker Apple Inc., on March 3, 2017, to stop buying ore from suppliers such as Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt who source from artisanal mines in the DRC, and begin using only suppliers that are verified to meet its workplace standards.\n\nThe political and ethnic dynamics of the region have in the past caused horrific outbreaks of violence and years of armed conflict and displaced populations. This instability affected the price of cobalt and also created perverse incentives for the combattants in the First and Second Congo Wars to prolong the fighting, since access to diamond mines and other valuable resources helped to finance their military goals—which frequently amounteed to genocide—and also enriched the fighters themselves. While DR Congo has in the 2010s not recently been invaded by neighboring military forces, some of the richest mineral deposits adjoin areas where Tutsis and Hutus still frequently clash, unrest continues although on a smaller scale and refugees still flee outbreaks of violence.\nCobalt extracted from small Congolese artisanal mining endeavors in 2007 supplied a single Chinese company, Congo DongFang International Mining. A subsidiary of Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt, one of the world’s largest cobalt producers, Congo DongFang supplied cobalt to some of the world’s largest battery manufacturers, who produced batteries for ubiquitous products like the Apple iPhones. Corporate pieties about an ethical supply chain were thus met with some incredulity. A number of observers have called for tech corporations and other manufacturers to avoid sourcing conflict metals in Central Africa at all rather than risk enabling the financial exploitation, human rights abuses like kidnappings for unfree labor, environmental devastation and the human toll of violence, poverty and toxic conditions.\n\nThe Mukondo Mountain project, operated by the Central African Mining and Exploration Company (CAMEC) in Katanga Province, may be the richest cobalt reserve in the world. It produced an estimated one third of the total global coval production in 2008. In July 2009, CAMEC announced a long-term agreement to deliver its entire annual production of cobalt concentrate from Mukondo Mountain to Zhejiang Galico Cobalt & Nickel Materials of China.\n\nIn February 2018, global asset management firm AllianceBernstein defined the DRC as economically \"the Saudi Arabia of the electric vehicle age,\" due to its cobalt resources, as essential to the lithium-ion batteries that drive electric vehicles.\n\nOn March 9, 2018, President Joseph Kabila updated the 2002 mining code, increasing royalty charges and declaring cobalt and coltan \"strategic metals\".\n\nIn 2017, some exploration companies were planning to survey old silver and cobalt mines in the area of Cobalt, Ontario where significant deposits are believed to lie. The mayor of Cobalt stated that the people of Cobalt welcomed new mining endeavours and pointed out that the local work force is peaceful and English-speaking, and good infrastructure would allow much easier sourcing of spare parts for the equipment or other supplies than were to be found in conflict-zones.\n\nCobalt has been used in production of high-performance alloys. It can also be used to make rechargeable batteries, and the advent of electric vehicles and their success with consumers probably has a great deal to do with the DRC's soaring production. Other important factors were the 2002 Mining Code, which encouraged investment by foreign and transnational corporations such as Glencore, and the end of the First and Second Congo Wars.\n\nCobalt-based superalloys have historically consumed most of the cobalt produced. The temperature stability of these alloys makes them suitable for turbine blades for gas turbines and aircraft jet engines, although nickel-based single-crystal alloys surpass them in performance. Cobalt-based alloys are also corrosion- and wear-resistant, making them, like titanium, useful for making orthopedic implants that don't wear down over time. The development of wear-resistant cobalt alloys started in the first decade of the 20th century with the stellite alloys, containing chromium with varying quantities of tungsten and carbon. Alloys with chromium and tungsten carbides are very hard and wear-resistant. Special cobalt-chromium-molybdenum alloys like Vitallium are used for prosthetic parts (hip and knee replacements). Cobalt alloys are also used for dental prosthetics as a useful substitute for nickel, which may be allergenic. Some high-speed steels also contain cobalt for increased heat and wear resistance. The special alloys of aluminium, nickel, cobalt and iron, known as Alnico, and of samarium and cobalt (samarium-cobalt magnet) are used in permanent magnets. It is also alloyed with 95% platinum for jewelry, yielding an alloy suitable for fine casting, which is also slightly magnetic.\n\nLithium cobalt oxide (LiCoO) is widely used in lithium-ion battery cathodes. The material is composed of cobalt oxide layers with the lithium intercalated. During discharge, the lithium is released as lithium ions. Nickel-cadmium (NiCd) and nickel metal hydride (NiMH) batteries also include cobalt to improve the oxidation of nickel in the battery. \nTransparency Market Research estimated the global lithium-ion battery market at $30 billion in 2015 and predicted an increase to over US$75 billion by 2024.\n\nAlthough in 2018 most cobalt in batteries was used in a mobile device, a more recent application for cobalt is rechargeable batteries for electric cars. This industry has increased five-fold in its demand for cobalt, which makes it urgent to find new raw materials in more stable areas of the world. Demand is expected to continue or increase as the prevalence of electric vehicles increases. Exploration in 2016–2017 included the area around Cobalt, Ontario, an area where many silver mines ceased operation decades ago.\n\nSince child and slave labor have been repeatedly reported in coltan mining, primarily in the artisanal mines of DR Congo, tech companies seeking an ethical supply chain have faced shortages of this raw material and the price of cobalt metal reached a nine-year high in October 2017, more than US$30 a pound, versus US$10 in late 2015.\n\nSeveral cobalt compounds are oxidation catalysts. Cobalt acetate is used to convert xylene to terephthalic acid, the precursor of the bulk polymer polyethylene terephthalate. Typical catalysts are the cobalt carboxylates (known as cobalt soaps). They are also used in paints, varnishes, and inks as \"drying agents\" through the oxidation of drying oils. The same carboxylates are used to improve the adhesion between steel and rubber in steel-belted radial tires. In addition they are used as accelerators in polyester resin systems.\n\nCobalt-based catalysts are used in reactions involving carbon monoxide. Cobalt is also a catalyst in the Fischer–Tropsch process for the hydrogenation of carbon monoxide into liquid fuels. Hydroformylation of alkenes often uses cobalt octacarbonyl as a catalyst, although it is often replaced by more efficient iridium- and rhodium-based catalysts, e.g. the Cativa process.\n\nThe hydrodesulfurization of petroleum uses a catalyst derived from cobalt and molybdenum. This process helps to clean petroleum of sulfur impurities that interfere with the refining of liquid fuels.\n\nBefore the 19th century, cobalt was predominantly used as a pigment. It has been used since the Middle Ages to make smalt, a blue-colored glass. Smalt is produced by melting a mixture of roasted mineral smaltite, quartz and potassium carbonate, which yields a dark blue silicate glass, which is finely ground after the production. Smalt was widely used to color glass and as pigment for paintings. In 1780, Sven Rinman discovered cobalt green, and in 1802 Louis Jacques Thénard discovered cobalt blue. Cobalt pigments such as cobalt blue (cobalt aluminate), cerulean blue (cobalt(II) stannate), various hues of cobalt green (a mixture of cobalt(II) oxide and zinc oxide), and cobalt violet (cobalt phosphate) are used as artist's pigments because of their superior chromatic stability. Aureolin (cobalt yellow) is now largely replaced by more lightfast yellow pigments.\n\nCobalt-60 (Co-60 or Co) is useful as a gamma-ray source because they can be produced in predictable quantity and high activity by bombarding cobalt with neutrons. It produces gamma rays with energies of 1.17 and 1.33 MeV.\n\nCobalt is used in external beam radiotherapy, sterilization of medical supplies and medical waste, radiation treatment of foods for sterilization (cold pasteurization), industrial radiography (e.g. weld integrity radiographs), density measurements (e.g. concrete density measurements), and tank fill height switches. The metal has the unfortunate property of producing a fine dust, causing problems with radiation protection. Cobalt from radiotherapy machines has been a serious hazard when not discarded properly, and one of the worst radiation contamination accidents in North America occurred in 1984, when a discarded radiotherapy unit containing cobalt-60 was mistakenly disassembled in a junkyard in Juarez, Mexico.\n\nCobalt-60 has a radioactive half-life of 5.27 years. Loss of potency requires periodic replacement of the source in radiotherapy and is one reason why cobalt machines have been largely replaced by linear accelerators in modern radiation therapy. Cobalt-57 (Co-57 or Co) is a cobalt radioisotope most often used in medical tests, as a radiolabel for vitamin B uptake, and for the Schilling test. Cobalt-57 is used as a source in Mössbauer spectroscopy and is one of several possible sources in X-ray fluorescence devices.\n\nNuclear weapon designs could intentionally incorporate Co, some of which would be activated in a nuclear explosion to produce Co. The Co, dispersed as nuclear fallout, is sometimes called a cobalt bomb.\n\n\nCobalt is essential to the metabolism of all animals. It is a key constituent of cobalamin, also known as vitamin B, the primary biological reservoir of cobalt as an ultratrace element. Bacteria in the stomachs of ruminant animals convert cobalt salts into vitamin B, a compound which can only be produced by bacteria or archaea. A minimal presence of cobalt in soils therefore markedly improves the health of grazing animals, and an uptake of 0.20 mg/kg a day is recommended because they have no other source of vitamin B.\n\nIn the early 20th century, during the development of farming on the North Island Volcanic Plateau of New Zealand, cattle suffered from what was termed \"bush sickness\". It was discovered that the volcanic soils lacked the cobalt salts essential for the cattle food chain.\n\nThe \"coast disease\" of sheep in the Ninety Mile Desert of the Southeast of South Australia in the 1930s was found to originate in nutritional deficiencies of trace elements cobalt and copper. The cobalt deficiency was overcome by the development of \"cobalt bullets\", dense pellets of cobalt oxide mixed with clay given orally for lodging in the animal's rumen.\n\nProteins based on cobalamin use corrin to hold the cobalt. Coenzyme B features a reactive C-Co bond that participates in the reactions. In humans, B has two types of alkyl ligand: methyl and adenosyl. MeB promotes methyl (−CH) group transfers. The adenosyl version of B catalyzes rearrangements in which a hydrogen atom is directly transferred between two adjacent atoms with concomitant exchange of the second substituent, X, which may be a carbon atom with substituents, an oxygen atom of an alcohol, or an amine. Methylmalonyl coenzyme A mutase (MUT) converts MMl-CoA to Su-CoA, an important step in the extraction of energy from proteins and fats.\n\nAlthough far less common than other metalloproteins (e.g. those of zinc and iron), other cobaltoproteins are known besides B. These proteins include methionine aminopeptidase 2, an enzyme that occurs in humans and other mammals that does not use the corrin ring of B, but binds cobalt directly. Another non-corrin cobalt enzyme is nitrile hydratase, an enzyme in bacteria that metabolizes nitriles.\n\nCobalt is an essential element for life in minute amounts. The LD value for soluble cobalt salts has been estimated to be between 150 and 500 mg/kg. In the US, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has designated a permissible exposure limit (PEL) in the workplace as a time-weighted average (TWA) of 0.1 mg/m. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 0.05 mg/m, time-weighted average. The IDLH (immediately dangerous to life and health) value is 20 mg/m.\n\nHowever, chronic cobalt ingestion has caused serious health problems at doses far less than the lethal dose. In 1966, the addition of cobalt compounds to stabilize beer foam in Canada led to a peculiar form of toxin-induced cardiomyopathy, which came to be known as \"beer drinker's cardiomyopathy\".\n\nIt causes respiratory problems when inhaled. It also causes skin problems when touched; after nickel and chromium, cobalt is a major cause of contact dermatitis. These risks are faced by cobalt miners.\n\nCobalt can be effectively absorbed by charred pigs' bones; however, this process is inhibited by copper and zinc, which have greater affinities to bone char.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20803465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20803465", "title": "Davey Gunn", "text": "Davey Gunn\n\nDavid John Gunn, generally known as Davey or Davy, (18 September 1887 – 25 December 1955) was a keen promoter of the attractions of the Hollyford Track and from 1936 guided parties to them. A farmer and bushman he ran his almost wild cattle in the glacier-cut Hollyford Valley in Fiordland, South Westland, New Zealand. \n\nGunn was the fourth of five children of Scottish parents, Isabella Grierson Robertson and her husband, Alexander Gunn. A one-time shepherd, Alexander Gunn ran a sheep farm of 27,000 acres in Central Otago. For secondary schooling David lived at Hook near Waimate with his maiden aunts on their 500 acre farm. Matriculating and leaving school he briefly followed other family members into Dalgety's working in one of their many branch offices as a clerk before deciding a desk job did not suit him. He went back to work on and later manage the farm at Hook. He underwent military training at Trentham in 1918 but was too late to be sent overseas.\n\nHe went farming on his own account 100 miles south of Waimate at Sutton. On 10 July 1919 at Morven near Waimate he married Ethel May Willetts, a confectioner. They were to have two daughters, Isabel and Dorothy, and a son, Murray. \n\nGeorge Gunn, an early runholder, mapped some of the Hollyford Valley in 1861. In 1926 David Gunn bought freehold land there from remaining original settlers, the McKenzie family. He increased his Hollyford landholding in 1929, just before the onset of the Great Depression, by acquiring four leases totalling more than 25,000 acres. He then moved to the valley, establishing his solitary base at Deadman's Hut on the banks of the Hollyford River. Gunn cut a number of well used tracks and erected huts in the more remote parts of his run. \n\nHis wife took their children to Oamaru to be educated and Gunn returned to his family for brief visits only twice a year.\n\nGunn came to public attention on 30 December 1936 with a speedy journey to bring assistance to the injured passengers of a de Havilland Fox Moth cabin plane he had seen crash into the sea at Big Bay. He covered the 90-kilometre, four-day journey in just 21 hours, a feat which earned him a King George VI Coronation Medal the following year.\n\nIn 1936, Gunn began guiding tramping parties down his Hollyford Track, and would continue doing so until his death in 1955. Friendly and hospitable by nature, and possessing considerable personal charm, Gunn became a well-known and popular figure. He was respected for his bushcraft, his energy, and his knowledge of the area.\n\nOn Christmas Day 1955, Gunn was fording the Hollyford River on horseback near Hidden Falls, with a 12-year-old boy mounted behind him. The horse stumbled and fell, and both riders were seen to find their feet in the river, until the horse stood up and they were both swept away and drowned. Gunn's body was never found.\n\nAfter his death his son, Murray, continued to guide trampers in the area, and started \"Gunn's Camp\", a rest-stop for trampers with store and small museum, which still stands near the southern end of the track, around 10 km from the Milford Sound-Te Anau highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "647199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647199", "title": "Democratic capitalism", "text": "Democratic capitalism\n\nDemocratic capitalism, also known as capitalist democracy, is a political, economic and social ideology that involves the combination of a democratic political system with a capitalist economic system. It is based on a tripartite arrangement of a private sector-driven market economy based predominantly on a democratic policy, economic incentives through free markets, fiscal responsibility and a liberal moral-cultural system which encourages pluralism. This ideology supports a capitalist economy subject to control by a democratic political system that is supported by the majority. It stands in contrast to corporatism by limiting the influence of special interest groups, including corporate lobbyists, on politics.\n\nIt is argued that the coexistence of modern capitalism and democracy was the result of the creation of the modern welfare state in the post-war period, which enabled a relatively stable political atmosphere and widespread support for capitalism. This period of history is often referred to as the \"Golden Age of Capitalism\".\n\nThe ideology of \"democratic capitalism\" has been in existence since medieval times. It is based firmly on the principles of liberalism and Whig historiography, which include liberty and equality. Some of its most prominent promoters were the Founding Fathers of the United States and subsequent Jeffersonians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10512633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10512633", "title": "Dynamic capabilities", "text": "Dynamic capabilities\n\nIn organizational theory, dynamic capability is the capability of an organization to purposefully adapt an organization's resource base. The concept was defined by David Teece, Gary Pisano and Amy Shuen, in their 1997 paper \"Dynamic Capabilities and Strategic Management\", as \"the firm’s ability to integrate, build, and reconfigure internal and external competences to address rapidly changing environments\".\n\nThe term is often used in the plural form, dynamic capabilities, emphasizing that the ability to react adequately and timely to external changes requires a combination of multiple capabilities.\n\nThe phrase \"dynamic capabilities\" was introduced in a working paper by David Teece, Gary Pisano, and Amy Shuen.The final, peer-reviewed version was published in 1997.\n\nThe idea of dynamic capabilities is similar in some ways to the previously existing concept of operational capabilities; the latter pertains to the current operations of an organization, whereas the former, by contrast, refers to an organization's capacity to efficiently and responsively change these operations and develop its resources.\n\nThe main assumption of this framework is that an organization's basic competencies should be used to create short-term competitive positions that can be developed into longer-term competitive advantage. Nelson and Winter, in their 1982 book \"An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change\", link the growth of the concept of dynamic capabilities to the resource-based view of the firm and the concept of \"routines\" in evolutionary theories of organization. Douma and Scheuder describe it as a bridge between the economics-based strategy literature and evolutionary approaches to organizations.\n\nThe resource-based view of the firm emphasizes sustainable competitive advantage; the dynamic capabilities view, on the other hand, focuses more on the issue of competitive survival in response to rapidly changing contemporary business conditions. Strategy scholars Gregory Ludwig and Jon Pemberton, in one of the few empirical studies on the topic, called for clarification of the specific processes of dynamic capability building in particular industries to make the concept more useful to senior managers who set directions for their firms.\n\nDynamic capabilities theory concerns the development of strategies for senior managers of successful companies to adapt to radical discontinuous change, while maintaining minimum capability standards to ensure competitive survival. For example, industries which have traditionally relied on a specific manufacturing process can't always change this process on short notice when a new technology arrives; when this happens, managers need to adapt their own routines to make the most of their existing resources while simultaneously planning for future process changes as the resources depreciate.\n\nThe New Dynamic Capabilities framework, posed by Amy Shuen in her analysis of Web 2.0, focuses on the firm's ability to quickly orchestrate and reconfigure externally sourced competences,ranging from Apple, Google Android, IBM Linux developer ecosystems to crowdsourced, crowdfunded open innovations such as the Obama08 mobile app—while leveraging internal resources such as platforms, know-how, user communities and digital, social and mobile networks. The New Dynamic Capabilities framework takes into account digital, information and network economics and the fall of the transaction costs of involved in using specialized services. According to Philip Cordes-Berszinn, though, more research is needed in order to measure the \"capabilities\" and to appropriately apply the ideas to practical management situations.\n\nA detailed description of processes and theoretical roots is provided by Arndt, Pierce, and Teece (2017). Teece, Pisano, and Shuen proposed three dynamic capabilities as necessary for an organization to meet new challenges: the ability of employees to learn quickly and to build new strategic assets; the integration of these new strategic assets, including capability, technology and customer feedback, into company processes; and lastly the transformation or reuse of existing assets which have depreciated. Teece refers to successful implementation of these three stages as developing \"corporate agility\".\n\nThe first stage, learning, requires employees and managers to reorganize their routines to promote interactions that lead to successful solutions to particular problems, to recognize and avoid dysfunctional activity and strategic blind spots, and to make appropriate use of alliance and acquisition to bring new strategic assets into the firm from external sources. A practical example of this is provided by Jean-Pierre Jeannet and Hein Schreuder, in their book \"From Coal to Biotech\", which lays out how the Dutch company DSM transformed itself twice using 'strategic learning cycles'.\n\nIn his 1988 book \"Managing Quality\", David A. Garvin states that quality performance depends on organisational routines for gathering and processing information, for linking customer experiences with engineering design choices and for coordinating factories and component suppliers. Increasingly competitive advantage also requires the integration of external activities and technologies through alliances and partnerships.\n\nEconomists Amit and Schoemaker pointed out in 1993 that success in fast changing markets depends on reconfiguring the firm’s asset structure to accomplish rapid internal and external transformation. Firms must develop processes to make changes inexpensively while accomplishing reconfiguration and transformation ahead of the competition. This can be supported by decentralization, local autonomy and strategic alliances.\n\nAnother \"dynamic capabilities\" concept is co-specialization. For example, the physical assets, human resources and the intellectual property of a company, having developed together over time, are more valuable in combination than separately, and give a firm a sustainable competitive advantage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14772332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14772332", "title": "End-user certificate", "text": "End-user certificate\n\nAn End-user certificate, or EUC, is a document used in international transfers, including sales and arms provided as aid, of weapons and ammunition to certify that the buyer is the final recipient of the materials, and is not planning on transferring the materials to another party. EUCs are required by many governments to restrict the flow of the materials to undesired destinations, such as embargoed states or rebel groups, governments with bad human rights records or states which are considered a threat by the original supplier of the arms.\n\nThere are several problems with EUCs as a means to prevent undesirable arms exports. EUCs can be forged or falsified; they can also be obtained from corrupt officials, therefore there is a need for EUCs that are difficult to forge. Another problem is that an EUC does not guarantee that the arms recipient will actually live up to its promise not to re-transfer the weapons received. EUCs which are not backed up by proper end-use monitoring are weak. \n\nIn 1936-1938, German arms were supplied to both sides in the Spanish Civil War via Greece using Greek then Mexican end-user certificates, see Pyrkal.\n"}
{"id": "23626578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23626578", "title": "European Committee for Banking Standards", "text": "European Committee for Banking Standards\n\nThe European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS) was formed in December 1992 by leading European banking associations to enhance the European technical banking infrastructure by developing standards. In 2006 its functions were taken over by the European Payments Council and the committee was disbanded.\n\nIts website is now maintained by an independent group the European Banking Resources.\n"}
{"id": "40667402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40667402", "title": "Franz Colruyt", "text": "Franz Colruyt\n\nFrançois Jean Baptiste Marie \"Franz\" Colruyt (14 December 1901, Lembeek - 4 November 1958, Halle) is the founder of the Colruyt family business. Under his leadership, a business in colonial goods evolved into a wholesale business in dry food. \n\nFranz Colruyt was the second son in a family of 11 children. His father Joseph was a baker and had a store under the church tower of Lembeek (a borough of Halle). After his death, his son Jo Colruyt took over the company. \n\nFranz Colruyt started working with his father and delivered food to stores and large consumers. In 1928, Franz Colruyt decided to shut down the bakery and start up a wholesale business in colonial goods, such as coffee and spices. Until the war, the wholesale business mainly serves stores around Halle and Tubeke. \n\nAfter WW2, the business booms and new customers are found in and around Brussels. Franz Colruyt also starts bottling wine and roasting coffee. The family business grows into a food wholesaler. \n\nIn 1950, Franz Colruyt founds the \"Etablissementen Franz Colruyt nv\" with a capital of 5 million francs (€ 125,000). His brothers Henri and Jules are also part of the business. \n\nIn the 1950s, the first mini-supermarkets and supermarkets open in Belgium. As a reaction to this, Franz Colruyt opens the Boni stores. These are run by independent shopkeepers that buy goods from Colruyt. \n\nIn 1958, his son Jo Colruyt takes over the company with his brothers. At that time, the company is already delivering to about 800 small independent stores and has about 150 employees. \n\nFranz Colruyt had a lot of attention for matters such as work simplification, efficiency, simplicity and working with production lines. This was also a necessity. He started his business during a crisis year. He concluded that low prices and low costs could help the company. \n"}
{"id": "26982055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26982055", "title": "Freight Tycoon", "text": "Freight Tycoon\n\nFreight Tycoon is a simulation strategy computer game focused around transporting goods via small and large tonnage trucks. The game was published by the Russian 1C Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "36129608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36129608", "title": "Hany M. Salam", "text": "Hany M. Salam\n\nHany M. Sala'am () is the current chairman and CEO of Gulf Resources Corporation (GRC) an international group of companies specialising in the exploration and development of energy, mining and smelting of related natural resources. Sala'am graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering. Sala'am became a successful entrepreneur from the outset of his career establishing a network of companies throughout the Middle East, Europe, North America and Africa and has acted as Chairman to GRC since its inception.\n\nSala'am born in Lebanon was raised in a successful business and politically orientated family which presumably formed the basis of his future entrepreneurial and diplomatic activities. His father Muhammad Salaam in partnership with his paternal uncle Saeb Sala'am founded Middle East Airlines (Lebanon’s national airline) in 1948. Saeb Sala'am also served as Prime Minister of Lebanon as did another of Sala'am’s paternal uncles Rashid Karami. On Sala'am’s maternal side his uncle Dr. Hussein Fakri Khalidi served as Prime Minister of Jordan.\n\nSala'am's eldest daughter Ghida married HRH Prince Talal Bin Muhammad a Jordanian Royal in Amman July, 1991. They have two sons and one daughter: Prince Hussein, Prince Muhammad & Princess Raaja. Princess Ghida acts as chairperson to the King Hussein Cancer Center in Jordan.\n\nSala'am served his country as a Presidential Envoy under the governments of Presidents Suleiman Franjieh, Elias Sarkis and Amin Gemayel. He achieved success as Head of the Lebanese delegation and with his partner Mahdi Al Tajir negotiated with the late President Hafez al-Assad, securing the peace accords (known as Taif) which ended the Lebanese Civil War.\n\nGRC was formed in the late 1979 by its current Chairman (Sala'am), and began operations as a civil engineering contractor. Shortly after, an association with the Kaiser Aluminium Company led to the success of Alba, the first aluminium smelting company in Bahrain. GRC then embarked on a grand smelter scheme with Kaiser Aluminium to launch a massive joint venture including oil refining and aluminium smelting in Qatar, UAE & Saudi Arabia. This development set the course for the emergence of gas and oil based process industries that expanded on a global scale. GRC also owned and operated a manganese mine in Western Australia under the leadership of Simon Farrell. The group since has diversified into a wide field of operations. These include engineering, industrial management, project management, real estate development, finance and investment, representation and trading. The successful development of GRC owes much to the contributions of key individuals who served for periods as board members. These include Timothy Ready (Chairman & CEO of Kaiser Aluminium and President of Primary Producers of Aluminium), Jean Ping & Lord Hanson.\n\nIn 1996 Sala'am and “GRC” was involved in a commercial dispute with Dubal Aluminium. The dispute was later amicably settled out of court in 1998.\n\nSala'am supports various charitable and educational ventures. One of his most notable educational ventures was the establishment of Sala'am Intercultural Resource Centre in Georgetown University, Washington DC. The Sala'am Centre was established by a grant from the Sala'am Family and dedicated by former president Jimmy Carter in 1989. The Sala'am Centre houses the MSFS (Master of Science in Foreign Services) programme. The centre provides its students with exclusive educational tools/materials and organises high-profile seminars aimed at the promotion of a better international and cultural understanding. Sala'am has also been known to personally sponsor the University education of many deserving student.\n\nHM King Ja'afar of Malaysia bestowed on Sala'am the prestigious title of Dato' Seri and was also awarded with the Congressional Medal of Honour of the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "32723636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32723636", "title": "Harald Astrup", "text": "Harald Astrup\n\nHarald Sigurdssøn Astrup (29 May 1903 – 22 June 1983) was a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of politician Sigurd Astrup (1873–1949) and Ingeborg Willumsen (1877–1962). He was named after his paternal grandfather, and was a nephew of Henning, Eivind and Thorvald Astrup. In 1928 he married Mabel Anette Plathe Butenschøn, a sister of Barthold A. Butenschøn and daughter of Barthold A. Butenschøn, Sr.\n\nHe finished his secondary education in 1922, and was a travelling businessman in Norway and abroad until being hired in the family company Astrup & Søn in 1926. He advanced to office manager in 1931, partner in 1936 and sole owner in 1949; he also served as chairman. He was a board member of the insurance companies Storebrand, Idun, Christiania Søforsikringsselskab and Poseidon, and was a supervisory council member of Den norske Creditbank, Dyno Industrier, Norcem, the Norwegian America Line and Bjølvefossen. He was a board member of the Norwegian Museum of Decorative Arts and Design and honorary member of Det Norske Selskab, which he had chaired from 1960 to 1968.\n\nHe retired in 1971. He died in June 1983 and was buried in Ullern.\n"}
{"id": "9911546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9911546", "title": "International Trade Center (New Jersey)", "text": "International Trade Center (New Jersey)\n\nThe International Trade Center is a multi-acre office park located in Mount Olive, New Jersey. Formerly the site of BASF until 2004, it is currently home to facilities of L3 Technologies, Bosal USA, Coherent Advanced Crystal Group, Vistar, and Robertet, among others. A Residence Inn by Marriott and Mount Olive station are on the grounds. The Center is designated as a foreign trade zone by the State of New Jersey.\n"}
{"id": "1837002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1837002", "title": "James Moore (governor)", "text": "James Moore (governor)\n\nJames Moore (c. 1650 – 1706) was the English governor of colonial Carolina between 1700 and 1703. He is best known for leading several invasions of Spanish Florida during Queen Anne's War, including attacks in 1704 and 1706 which wiped out most of the Spanish missions in Florida. He captured and brought back to Carolina as slaves thousands of Apalachee Indians.\n\nLittle is known of James Moore's origins. During his life he was said to be a son of Roger Moore (also known as Rory O'Moore or Ruairí Óg Ó Mórdha), leader of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 and that he had supposedly inherited his father's rebellious nature. He first appears in the records of the Province of Carolina in 1675 representing Margaret Berringer Yeamans, widow of Sir John Yeamans, before the colonial council. At about the same time he married her daughter by her first husband, also named Margaret.\n\nIn 1677, 1682, and 1683, he served on the colonial council. He played a leading role in a 1690 expedition into the Carolina back country, crossing the Appalachian Mountains to investigate possibilities of trade with the local Indian population. In 1698 he was elected to the colonial assembly, and was described as the right-hand-man of proprietor Sir John Colleton. The next year he was named chief justice of the colony, a post he held until he was named governor in 1700, replacing the deceased Joseph Blake.\n\nJames Moore was a leader of one of colonial South Carolina's political factions, called the \"Goose Creek Men\", after Goose Creek, an outlying area of Charleston.\n\nIn 1683 Moore was granted by the Lords Proprietors. He called his estate \"Boochowee\". Part of this land is known today as Liberty Hall Plantation.\n\nFrom 1691 Moore was the acknowledged leader of the Goose Creek Men, the main political opposition to the ruling \"Dissenter\" faction. Moore's rise to governorship in 1700 signalled a major shift in the politics of the colony. The Dissenters contested Moore's \"unjust election\". But the Lords Proprietors saw to it that Moore remained governor, and they made it clear that the Dissenters were no longer in favor.\n\nBetween 1700 and 1703 Moore was the British governor of Carolina, which was then in the process of dividing into the provinces of North and South Carolina. During this period, he led a number of attacks from the Carolinas into Spanish Florida. He relied on allied Indian tribes, especially the Yamasee for most of his military force. On news of the outbreak of Queen Anne's War in 1702, he led 500 colonists, 300 native allies, and 14 small ships on an invasion of Spanish Florida along the coast, destroying the remaining Spanish missionary Indians of Guale and Mocama, and devastating the lands around St. Augustine. While the town of St. Augustine was razed, its central fortress, Castillo de San Marcos, where the Spanish and numerous allied Indians had taken refuge, resisted Moore's siege. The 1702 campaign was viewed as a disaster due to the failure to take the fortress and the expenses incurred, and Moore resigned his post.\n\nIn 1704, Moore led an expedition of 50 Englishmen and 1,000 Creek, Yamasee, and other allied Indians, into western Florida, leading to the Apalachee Massacre. The Apalachee were the last powerful Spanish-allied Indian nation in the region. Their defeat in 1704 resulted in many Apalachee being enslaved and taken from Charleston to the West Indies. Other Apalachee were relocated (some voluntarily, others not) to the Savannah River to live in semi-serfdom. Another result of the defeat of the Apalachee was the collapse of the final defence of the Indians of Florida. In the following years, Carolinian and Indian slave raiders virtually wiped out the Indian population of Florida all the way to the Florida Keys.\n\nMoore's defeat of the Apalachee in Spanish Florida was hailed as a major victory for Carolina, which had been fighting with the Spanish for control of the region for decades. It also served to strengthen ties between various southeastern Indians and Carolina. The Creek people and the Cherokees became much more closely allied with Carolina. With these two Indian nations as strong allies, the English rose to a position of dominance over the French and Spanish in the American southeast.\n\nGovernor Moore died in 1706 of a tropical disease, possibly yellow fever. He was significantly in debt. His son by the same name was elected to the same office in 1719 following the overthrow of the proprietary governor.\n\nJames Moore married Margaret Berringer, daughter of Lady Margaret Yeamans (by a previous marriage). Their daughter, Mary Moore, married Job Howe, another of the \"Goose Creek Men\". Altogether James and Margaret had ten children, many of whom moved to the Lower Cape Fear region, where they and their descendants became known as \"The Family\", the most powerful family in the region. Moore was the grandfather of American Revolutionary War Brigadier General James Moore, and great-grandfather of Major General Robert Howe.\n\nThe Moore family imported over 4,000 slaves into the Carolinas, mostly for its own extensive plantations and farms in and around the Cape Fear area of what later became North Carolina. James Moore also had a house in Charleston and another in the Goose Creek area near Charleston.\n\nAnother Moore family descendent, Alfred Moore, became a Justice of the US Supreme Court.\n\nNathaniel Moore (son of Rory Oge O'More)\n\n"}
{"id": "44867273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44867273", "title": "James R. Eubank", "text": "James R. Eubank\n\nJames Rowland Eubank (December 8, 1914 – November 9, 1952) was a lawyer from Alexandria, Louisiana, who served for six months during 1952 in the Louisiana House of Representatives for Rapides Parish. \nHe died in office at the age of thirty-seven from a heart attack.\n\nEubank was a floor leader for Governor Robert F. Kennon. He was succeeded in the House by Lloyd George Teekell, another Alexandria lawyer who won a special election in 1953 to fill the remaining three years of Eubank's term.\n\nEubank was the only child of Maude Lee Eubank (1885-1958) and Benjamin Franklin Eubank (1882-1962), a former official of the Louisiana State Police and the state hospital system. Eubank and his wife, the former Katherine Bringhurst, had two children, Robert Benjamin Eubank (born 1942) and Elizabeth Tracy Eubank (born August 1943). Eubank was a maternal grandson of Swords Lee, a timber businessman in Pollock and Alexandria, who represented Grant Parish in the Louisiana House from 1904 to 1908. He was a descendant of the Lee family of Virginia. His middle name is derived from his great-grandmother, Martha Roland Lee, spelled without the \"w\".\n\nEubank served in the United States Army during World War II. He is interred alongside his parents at Greenwood Memorial Park in Pineville, Louisiana.\n"}
{"id": "6191053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6191053", "title": "Jared Kushner", "text": "Jared Kushner\n\nJared Corey Kushner (born January 10, 1981) is an American investor, real-estate developer, and newspaper publisher who is currently senior advisor to his father-in-law, Donald Trump, the President of the United States. Kushner is the elder son of real-estate developer Charles Kushner and is married to Ivanka Trump, President Trump's daughter and advisor. He was chief executive officer of the real-estate holding and development company Kushner Companies, and of Observer Media, publisher of the \"New York Observer\". He is the co-founder and part owner of Cadre, an online real-estate investment platform.\n\nDuring the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, Kushner helped develop and run Trump's digital media strategy. On January 9, 2017, he was named as a senior White House advisor.\n\nKushner was born in Livingston, New Jersey, to Seryl Kushner (née Stadtmauer) and Charles Kushner, a real-estate developer. His paternal grandparents, Reichel and Joseph Kushner, were Holocaust survivors who came to the U.S. in 1949 from Navahrudak, Belarus. Morris Stadtmauer was the maternal grandfather of Jared Kusnher. Kushner was raised in a Modern Orthodox Jewish family. He graduated from the Frisch School, a Modern Orthodox yeshiva high school, in 1999. He was an honors student and a member of the debate, hockey, and basketball teams.\n\nKushner enrolled at Harvard University in 1999. Journalist Daniel Golden has alleged that Kushner was accepted due to his father's donations and history with the school. He was elected into the Fly Club, supported the campus Chabad house, and bought and sold real estate in Somerville, Massachusetts, as a vice president of Somerville Building Associates (a division of Kushner Companies). Its other vice president was his maternal uncle, Richard Stadtmauer, then vice chairman of Kushner Companies. The venture was dissolved in 2005 after returning a profit of $20 million. Kushner graduated from Harvard in 2003 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in government.\n\nKushner graduated from New York University in 2007 with dual JD/MBA degrees. He interned at Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau's office, and at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.\n\nKushner was a real-estate investor, and increased Kushner Companies' presence in the New York City real-estate market.\n\nKushner Companies purchased the office building at 666 Fifth Avenue in 2007, for a then-record price of $1.8 billion, most of it borrowed. He assumed the role of CEO in 2008. Following the property crash that year, the cash flow generated by the property was insufficient to cover its debt service, and the Kushners were forced to sell the retail footage to Stanley Chera and bring in Vornado Realty Trust as a 50% equity partner in the ownership of the building. By that time, Kushner Companies had lost more than $90 million on its investment. He was the face of the deal but his father Charles Kushner pushed him to do the deal.\n\nOn August 18, 2014, Kushner acquired a three-building apartment portfolio in Middle River, Maryland, for $38 million with Aion Partners. In 2013–2014, he and his company acquired more than 11,000 units throughout New York, New Jersey, and the Baltimore area. In May 2015, he purchased 50.1% of the Times Square Building from Africa Israel Investments Ltd. for $295 million.\n\nIn 2014, Kushner, with his brother Joshua and Ryan Williams, co-founded Cadre (now RealCadre LLC), an online real-estate investment platform. His business partners included Goldman Sachs and billionaire George Soros, a top Democratic Party donor. In early 2015, Soros Fund Management financed the startup with a $250 million credit line. Kushner did not identify these business relationships in his January 2017 government financial-disclosure form.\n\nIn 2006, Kushner purchased \"The New York Observer\", a weekly New York City newspaper, for $10 million, using money he says he earned during his college years by closing deals on residential buildings in Somerville, Massachusetts, with family members providing the backing for his investments.\n\nAfter purchasing the \"Observer\", Kushner published it in tabloid format. Since then, he has been credited with increasing the \"Observer\"s online presence and expanding the Observer Media Group. With no substantial experience in journalism, Kushner could not establish a good relationship with the newspaper's veteran editor-in-chief, Peter W. Kaplan. \"This guy doesn't know what he doesn't know\", Kaplan remarked about Kushner, to colleagues, at the time. As a result of his differences with Kushner, Kaplan quit his position. Kaplan was followed by a series of short-lived successors until Kushner hired Elizabeth Spiers in 2011. It has been alleged that Kushner used Observer as propaganda against rivals in real estate. Spiers left the newspaper in 2012. In January 2013, Kushner hired a new editor-in-chief, Ken Kurson. Kurson had been a consultant to Republican political candidates in New Jersey.\n\nAccording to \"Vanity Fair\", under Kushner, the \"\"Observer\" has lost virtually all of its cultural currency among New York's elite, but the paper is now profitable and reporting traffic growth ... [it] boasts 6 million unique visitors per month, up from 1.3 million in January 2013\". In April 2016, the \"New York Observer\" became one of only a handful of newspapers to officially endorse United States presidential candidate Donald Trump in the Republican primary, but the paper ended the campaign period by choosing not to back any presidential candidate at all.\n\nKushner stepped down from his newspaper role in January 2017 to pursue a role in President Donald Trump's administration. He was replaced by his brother-in-law.\n\nJared Kushner had been a lifelong Democrat prior to Donald Trump entering politics. He had donated over $10,000 to Democratic campaigns starting at young age of 11. In 2008 he donated to the campaign for Hillary Clinton and his newspaper the \"New York Observer\" endorsed Barack Obama over John McCain in the US presidential election. but after disappointment with Barack Obama he endorsed Republican US presidential race nominee Mitt Romney in 2012 via the \"New York Observer\". In 2014 he continued to donate to Democratic groups, but he then continued his \"ideological conversion\" by joining his father-in-law Donald Trump's nascent US presidential campaign in 2015. Kushner had no prior involvement in campaign politics or in government before Trump's campaign.\n\nFrom the outset of the presidential campaign of his father-in-law Donald Trump, Kushner was the architect of Trump's digital, online, and social media campaigns, enlisting talent from Silicon Valley to run a 100-person social-media team dubbed \"Project Alamo\". Kushner has also helped as a speechwriter, and was tasked with working to establish a plan for Trump's White House transition team. He was for a time seen as Trump's \"de facto\" campaign manager, succeeding Corey Lewandowski, who was fired in part on Kushner's recommendation in June 2016. He had been intimately involved with campaign strategy, coordinating Trump's visit in late August to Mexico, and he is believed to be responsible for the choice of Mike Pence as Trump's running mate. Kushner's \"sprawling digital fundraising database and social media campaign\" has been described as \"the locus of his father-in-law's presidential bid\".\n\nAccording to former Google CEO Eric Schmidt (who worked on technology for Hillary Clinton's campaign), Kushner's role in the 2016 election was its biggest surprise. Schmidt told \"Forbes\", \"Best I can tell, he actually ran the campaign and did it with essentially no resources.\" Federal Election Commission filings indicate the Trump campaign spent $343 million, about 59 percent as much as the Clinton campaign.\n\nOn July 5, 2016, Kushner wrote an open letter in the \"New York Observer\" addressing the controversy around a tweet from the Trump campaign containing allegedly anti-Semitic imagery. He was responding to his own paper's editorial by Dana Schwartz criticizing Kushner's involvement with the Trump campaign. In the letter, Kushner wrote, \"In my opinion, accusations like 'racist' and 'anti-Semite' are being thrown around with a carelessness that risks rendering these words meaningless.\"\n\nDuring the presidential transition, Kushner was said to be his father-in-law's \"confidant\", and one of Donald Trump's closest advisors, even more so than Trump's four adult children. Trump was reported to have requested the top-secret security clearance for him to attend the Presidential daily intelligence briefings as his staff-level companion, along with General Mike Flynn, who already had the clearance prior to his resignation.\n\nKushner was reportedly an influential factor behind the firing of New Jersey governor Chris Christie as head of the transition team, as well as the dismissal from the Donald Trump transition team of anyone connected to Christie. An anonymous source familiar with the transition told \"Politico\", \"Jared doesn't like Christie... He's always held [the prosecution of his father] against Christie.\" Kushner told \"Forbes\" that the reports that he was involved in Christie's dismissal were false: \"Six months ago, Governor Christie and I decided this election was much bigger than any differences we may have had in the past, and we worked very well together... I was not behind pushing out him or his people.\"\n\nOn January 9, 2017, Kushner was named Senior Advisor to the President (formally, \"Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor\"). He consequently resigned as CEO of Kushner Companies, and as publisher of the \"Observer\". Kushner's appointment was questioned on the basis of a 1967 anti-nepotism law. On January 20, 2017, the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel issued an opinion stating, \"The President may appoint relatives to his immediate staff of advisors.\" Kushner was sworn in on January 22, 2017. , Kushner had not obtained a full security clearance and had been operating on a temporary security clearance for more than a year, which has given him access to classified information, until he was granted permanent access in May 2018. On February 27, 2018, White House Chief of Staff John Kelly downgraded Kushner's interim security clearance to \"secret\" status, along with other White House staffers working with interim security clearances. He worked in the White House based on an interim security clearance until May 2018, when he passed a comprehensive background investigation. His office is physically the closest to the Oval Office.\n\nTrump put Kushner in charge of brokering peace in Israeli–Palestinian conflict, as well as making deals with foreign countries, although in what way he is in charge is unclear. On August 24, 2017, Kushner traveled to Israel to talk to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He then traveled to Palestine to meet President Mahmoud Abbas in an attempt to restart a peace process in the Middle East.\n\nFurthermore, after Donald Trump became President-elect, Kushner and his wife met with Japanese Prime Minister and other Japanese officials, while his wife was conducting a licensing deal between her namesake clothing brand and a Japanese government-owned company. His wife sat in on a meeting between her father, then-President-elect Donald Trump, and Japan's Prime Minister, Shinzō Abe.\n\nIn late March 2017, Jared Kushner was also given the new role of leading the \"White House Office of American Innovation\", where Kushner reportedly has been focusing on improving governmental efforts with regard to Veterans Affairs, information-technology contracting, and the opioid crisis. Kushner was involved in the sale of $100+ billion of arms to Saudi Arabia, and during a meeting with Saudi officials at the White House, he called Lockheed Martin CEO Marillyn Hewson to ask for a lower price on a radar system to detect ballistic missiles.\n\nKushner's business activities in China have drawn scrutiny for mixing government with business. Kushner's investments in real estate and financial services have also drawn controversy for conflicts of interest. In May, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that he had failed to disclose all required financial information in his security clearance applications, including that he owes $1 billion in loans.\n\nAbbe Lowell, the lawyer of Kushner, in a statement admitted that Kushner used private e-mail for official White House business. No classified or privileged information was used on this account. Kushner's father-in-law repeatedly criticized his opponent Hillary Clinton for her personal e-mail usage in her role as Secretary of State.\n\nKushner helped to spearhead creation of the Formerly Incarcerated Reenter Society Transformed Safely Transitioning Every Person Act (FIRST STEP ACT, ) and its May 9, 2018 endorsement by the House Judiciary Committee.\n\nKushner has said he had four meetings with Russians during the 2016 campaign and presidential transition, and says that none of those Russian contacts were improper.\n\nTo hold his position in the Trump administration, Kushner is required to obtain and keep a top-secret security clearance, which, among other things, has required him to fill out \"Standard Form 86: Questionnaire for National Security Positions\". Kushner's initial SF-86 form did not disclose any meetings with foreign government officials, and Kushner did not personally verify the correctness of the information on his form. As such, Kushner failed to disclose that he had met in December 2016 with Russian officials, including Ambassador Kislyak and Sergei Gorkov, chairman of a Russian government-owned bank, Vnesheconombank (VEB). Former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has stated that Kushner met with Gorkov briefly as part of his role in the transition, and as a diplomatic conduit to the State Department. However, VEB has stated that Gorkov met with Kushner on a private matter concerning his family's real estate corporation, Kushner Companies, even though VEB has been under international sanctions since July 2014. In April 2017, it was reported that Kushner's lawyer has called the omission from his security clearance form an oversight. In July 2017, media reported that for his security clearance, Kushner had recently filed a revised version of the form disclosing his contact with foreign nationals, and that it was via this disclosure that government officials first learned of the June 2016 Trump campaign–Russian meeting and Kushner's role in it. Failure to disclose such contacts can cause revocation of a security clearance, while knowingly doing so can result in imprisonment.\n\nIn June 2016, an agent of Emin Agalarov reportedly offered Donald Trump Jr., Kushner's brother-in-law, compromising information on Hillary Clinton from the Russian government if he met with a lawyer connected to the Kremlin. A meeting took place on June 9, 2016, and included Kushner, Trump Jr., and Paul Manafort, who was then chairman of the presidential campaign, who met with Natalia Veselnitskaya at Trump Tower. According to Rinat Akhmetshin, who was also present at the meeting, Veselnitskaya claimed to have evidence of \"violations of Russian law by a Democratic donor\", and that the \"Russian lawyer described her findings at the meeting and left a document about them with Trump Jr. and the others\". The Democratic National Committee cyber attacks were revealed later that week.\n\nIn December 2016, U.S. intelligence officials who were monitoring Kislyak reportedly overheard him relaying to Moscow a request from Kushner to establish a \"secret and secure communications channel\" with the Kremlin using Russian diplomatic facilities. Kislyak reportedly was \"taken aback by the suggestion of allowing an American to use Russian communications gear at its embassy or consulate – a proposal that would have carried security risks for Moscow as well as the Trump team\".\n\nIn July 2017, Kushner appeared before both the House and Senate intelligence committees in closed session as part of their investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. He also released a public statement. In October 2017 the Senate Judiciary Committee requested numerous documents from Kushner. Kushner's attorneys gave the committee many documents on November 3, but the committee followed up on November 16 with a request for many additional documents it said had not been produced.\n\nIn early November 2017, Kushner was interviewed by investigators from Special Counsel Robert Mueller's office. Reportedly the interview focused on former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn. On December 1, Flynn pleaded guilty to one count of lying to the FBI, as part of a plea bargain. \"Bloomberg\" reported that Kushner is most likely the \"senior member of the Trump transition team,\" mentioned in Flynn's plea documents, who is said to have ordered Flynn to contact Russia.\n\nMueller is investigating meetings between Trump associates including Kushner and George Nader, an emissary representing the crown princes of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia. In August 2016, Nader offered help to the Trump presidential campaign. In December 2016, Nader attended a New York meeting between the United Arab Emirates officials and Kushner, Michael Flynn and Steve Bannon. Mueller is also investigating Kushner's possible ties to Qatar, Israel and China.\n\nKushner's contacts with Russian officials have come under scrutiny as part of the larger federal investigation into Russian interference in the election. He had two undisclosed phone calls with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, between April and November 2016. His attorney, Jamie Gorelick, told Reuters that he had participated in \"thousands of calls in this time period\" and did not recall any with Kislyak.\n\nKushner has a younger brother, Joshua, and two sisters, Dara and Nicole. He married Ivanka Trump in a Jewish ceremony on October 25, 2009. They had met in 2005 through mutual friends. Kushner and his wife (who converted to Judaism in 2009) are Modern Orthodox Jews, keep a kosher home, and observe the Jewish Shabbat. They have three children, born between 2011 and 2016. In 2017, federal disclosures suggested Kushner and his wife had assets worth at least $240 million, and as much as $740 million. They also have an art collection, estimated to be worth millions that was not mentioned in the financial disclosures initially, and enjoy visiting art studios. The United States Office of Government Ethics has said that the updated disclosures comply with the regulations and laws. When asked about his father-in-law President Donald Trump, Kushner told CNN's Van Jones: \"He's a black swan. He's been a black swan all his life.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58066444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58066444", "title": "Jose Yao Campos", "text": "Jose Yao Campos\n\nJose Yao Campos (1922 – May 1, 2016), also known by his Chinese name Yao Cho Diat, was a Filipino-Chinese businessman best known as the founder of United Laboratories, and as the first of Ferdinand Marcos' closest cronies to enter into a settlement deal with the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG).\n\nSuccessfully becoming a major player in the local Pharmaceuticals manufacturing industry by cofounding UNILAB after World War II, he became early supporter of Philippine dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who tapped him as a \"Financial Advisor.\" In 1986, the Presidential Commission on Good Government cited him for having served as a \"front man\" for various \"ill-gotten\" wealth, including $52.5 million of real estate representing the most prominent Marcos Mansions. He then became the first of the Marcos cronies to make a deal with the PCGG in exchange for immunity from suit. By the time he died in 2016, Yao Campos' family had become one of the Philippines' most powerful business clans, with UNILAB helmed by his firstborn, Joy Campos Hess and her son, Clinton Hess; his eldest son Joselito Yao founding condiments company Nutri-Asia and occupying top positions in Del Monte Philippines and the Fort Bonifacio Development Corporation; and his youngest child Jeffrey running Greenfields Development Corporation.\n\nCampos was born Yao Cho Diat in Ha-ngo-po, a village in Jinjing Town, Jinjiang, part of modern-day Quanzhou, China. He lived there as a youth and was educated in the Chinese classics until he was old enough to be accepted for admission to the Whampoa Military Academy established by Sun Yat-sen—an honor which he described as \"the ultimate dream of all patriotic Chinese boys.\" Instead of allowing him to attend the academy, however, his father sent Yao to Quezon province in the Philippines, where he would learn business skills from his older brother Yao Shiong Shio, who was already a successful trader.\n\nYao started out as a worker at his brother's buntal hat business before the war, and survived the Second World War by making his living as a buy-and-sell trader.\n\nHe eventually took \"Jose Yao Campos\" as his Filipino name.\n\nSoon after the end of World War II in 1945, Yao Campos partnered with Mariano K. Tan to build a drugstore on Sto. Cristo Street in Binondo, Manila. (Some sources also mention an American soldier named Robert Horowitz as Yao Campos' partner in charge of production when the drugstore was first built.)\n\nDescribing the beginnings of the company, Yao Campos' brother-in-law and later UNILAB president Howard Q. Dee later recounted:\n\n\"Unilab started with humble beginnings as a small manufacturing enterprise. Our offices and modest production facilities were located in JY’s residential compound in Santa Mesa. We literally began as a home industry with no more than 30 employees. With the new monetary policies, in no time, a dozen foreign pharmaceutical companies established large manufacturing facilities. Unilab was the smallest but under the leadership of JY, we developed a game plan like no other. Our strategic planning showed us the way to segment the pharma market with a multi-divisional approach that would enable us to compete on all fronts. The keys were product sourcing and planning, synergism in promotions and distribution outreach.\"\n\nBy 1959, after only fourteen years in operation, Yao Campos and Tan, with the help of Yao Campos' brother-in-law Dee, had transformed United Drug into United Laboratories, with the highest share of the Philippine pharmaceuticals market among all the Philippines' local drug manufacturers. This was attributed to the values Yao Campos was said to have instilled in the company, which admirers described as \"the Confucian values of hard work, frugality, discipline, perseverance, filial piety to parents and ancestors, love of education and delayed personal gratification.\"\n\nUnder Yao Campos, UNILAB remained a proudly non-unionized company, with a company-initiated Employee Board providing benefits to employees instead of a union negotiating with the company on their behalf. Unionization was so much of “a no-no to the owners” of UNILAB that they went as far as to hire a feng shui expert to redesign their corporate headquarters in response to a 1996 incident in which union organizers nearly succeeded in forming a union.\n\nCampos was an early supporter of Ferdinand Marcos, making campaign contributions as early as Marcos’ first Congressional run in 1946. He would eventually become one of the closest among Marcos’ cronies, along with Danding Cojaungco and Roberto Benedicto.\n\nAlthough critics of the Marcos administration would later note that Marcos’ cronies managed to make huge fortunes despite not being known as particularly good businessmen, Yao Campos and Rolando Gapud were often considered the notable exceptions, because of their established business record from before Marcos’ presidency.\n\nNevertheless, Marcos’ stint in the legislature allowed him to favor Yao Campos’ business. Having won as congressman, Marcos was soon made chairman of the House Committee on Commerce and Industry. When he won a seat in the senate later, he became a member of the Senate Special Committee on Import and Price Controls and on Reparations. This allowed Marcos to make his fortune by selling import licenses to businessmen. His campaign benefactor Yao Campos’ company UNILAB was granted exclusive import licences in the Pharmaceuticals industry.\n\nBecause UNILAB’s market dominance turned it into a major supplier of pharmaceuticals for government health programs, Yao Campos found one more way to help build up Ferdinand Marcos during campaigns: by supplying the government with medicine packs branded “Medical Assistance to Rural Communities and Other Sectors” – the acronym for which spelled out “M.A.R.C.O.S.” \n\nMarcos eventually asked Campos to became godfather to both Imee and Bongbong Marcos.\n\nAs an early supporter of Marcos, Yao Campos became a Financial advisor to the president. While it was Roberto Benedicto who helped the Marcoses open a Swiss bank account under the fictitious names \"William Saunders\" and \"Jane Ryan\", it was Yao Campos organized 40 different shell companies through whose bank accounts the Marcoses could later transfer the Saunders account money, giving them multiple additional layers beneath which to hide their identity.\n\nHe also served as the Marcoses' \"front man| for various assets and properties. The most widely publicized of these properties include the most prominent Marcos mansions—over P2.5 billion ($52.5 million) worth in real estate located in Metro Manila, Rizal, Laguna, Cavite, Bataan and Baguio City.\n\nYao Campos was in Canada in 1986 when Corazon Aquino’s Revolutionary Government took over the Philippines after the Marcoses were deposed by the EDSA revolution. He was the first among the Marcos cronies to make a deal with the Aquino government in exchange for immunity from suit, and the deal he struck with the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) was one of the agency’s earliest successes.\n\nThe 1986 settlement involved PhP 250 Million in cash and PhP 2.5 Billion worth of titles to 197 properties in Metro Manila, Rizal, Laguna, Cavite, Bataan, and Baguio—all of which Yao Campos admitted were under his name but actually part of the ill-gotten wealth of Ferdinand Marcos.\nIt also included a building on Efipanio de Los Santos Avenue (EDSA) where Imee Marcos had an office before the EDSA revolution, which eventually became the headquarters of the PCGG.\n\nIn 2007 the Marcos family confirmed that the properties surrendered by Yao Campos to the PCGG in 1986 were indeed owned by Ferdinand Marcos, arguing that Yao Campos should not have surrendered them to the government because “\"under a constructive trust in favor of the estate of the former president.\"”\n\nAfter the People Power Revolution, Yao Campos earned a reputation as the most media-shy of all the Philippines’ taipans. By the time Yao Campos died on Labor Day, May 1, 2016, UNILAB had become the Philippines’ largest drug-manufacturing company, helmed by his eldest child, Joy Campos Hess and her son, Clinton Hess.\n\nThe rest of Yao Campos' children have also become dominant forces in their own industries, making the Yao Campos family one of the Philippines’ most powerful business clans. Yao Campos’ eldest son and namesake, Joselito D. Yao Camoos, left UNILAB to found the condiments company Nutri-Asia, and is now also vice chairman of Del Monte Philippines, and chairman of Fort Bonifacio Development Corporation.\n\nYao Campos’ son, Jeffrey D.Y. Campos, in turn runs the real estate holdings company Greenfields Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1488118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488118", "title": "Kishichiro Okura", "text": "Kishichiro Okura\n\nBaron was a Japanese entrepreneur and hotelier. \n\nHe was a son of Okura Kihachiro (1837-1928) who as an entrepreneur built up the Okura-gumi and founded the giant Okura Zaibatsu (family owned conglomerate) and the Okura Shogyo Gakko which later became Tokyo Keizai University (Tokyo University of Economics) in 1949. \n\nHe studied at Trinity College, Cambridge from 1903 to 1906 but he did not graduate from Cambridge University. \n\nOkura competed in the first ever car race held at Brooklands in Surrey on July 6, 1907 and came second. He is one of the pioneers who introduced the motor car to Japan. He was the President of the Imperial Hotel, and the Okura luxury hotel chain is still an important one in Japan today.\n\nOkura Kishichiro was a primary patron in the establishment of the Nihon Ki-in or Japanese Go Association in 1924, organizing and supporting professional go players in Japan following the Meiji Restoration and subsequent ceasing of government support for the four go houses.\n\nHe also invented the musical instrument Okraulo, a type of vertical flute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43828581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43828581", "title": "Lovelace Tavern", "text": "Lovelace Tavern\n\nThe Lovelace Tavern was a bar located in what is now the Financial District of Manhattan in New York City. Owned by the then-governor of New York colony, Colonel Francis Lovelace, it was in business from 1670 until 1706. The building's remains were discovered in 1979, when construction for present-day 85 Broad Street was taking place. The building burned down in 1706, but the original foundation walls can be seen today through glass set into the sidewalk. \n"}
{"id": "32906426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32906426", "title": "Mian Habib Ullah", "text": "Mian Habib Ullah\n\nMian Habib Ullah (Born April 30, 1948) is a Pakistani businessman and diplomat belonging to Chiniot and is best known for his association with the Islamabad Stock Exchange and Export Promotion Bureau (Trade Development Authority, Government of Pakistan). He was also a founding member of Islamabad Stock Exchange. He is the current Honorary Consul General of Republic of Cyprus also elected as the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps of Honorary Consuls and Consul Generals in November 2014. Mian Habib Ullah is former Minister of State and Former, President of Federation Of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FPCCI) and also Former President of Rawalpindi Chamber of Commerce & Industry. He was closely associated with Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto in her second term and also served as her Advisor on trade. He is also the Former President of All Pakistan China Friendship Association .\n\nMian Habib Ullah was born in Lahore, Pakistan. He is married to the sister of Shahzada Alam Monnoo, who served as Federal Minister for Commerce, Industries and Textiles. Mian Habib Ullah himself is a living example of the business acumen of his fraternity. His grandfather Dost Mohammad had started export of hides and skins from Southern India and set up several industrial units including Zeenat Textile Mills with 25,000 spindles and 500 looms in 1952. It was among the top 4 largest textile groups in Pakistan at that time. It was after his father's death in 1981 that Mian Habib Ullah launched his own independent business, by buying off shares of his uncles in the family enterprise D M Textile Mills. .\n\nMian Habib Ullah Graduated in Commerce from Punjab university.\n\n-Honorary Consul General Of the Republic Of Cyprus\n\n-Dean of the Diplomatic Corps of Honorary Consuls and Consul Generals\n\n-Life Member SAARC Chamber of Commerce and industry\n\n- C.E.O of D.M Textile Mills Ltd.\n\nFormer :\n\nPresident - Rawalpindi Chamber of Commerce and Industry 1990-1991\n\nPresident - FPCCI 1992-93\n\nVice President - Economic Cooperation Organization Chamber of Commerce 1992-1993\n\nChairman - Export Promotion Bureau (now TDAP) 1993-1996\n\nDirector - Pakistan Television Corporation 1993\n\nDirector - Allied Bank 1995-1996\n\nDirector - Islamabad Stock Exchange\n\nMember of Syndicate - Taxila Engineering University 2002-2005\n\nDirector - Islamabad Electricity Supply Co. 2005-2010\n\nPresident - All Pakistan China Friendship Association 2013-2016\n\nUnder the leadership of Mian Habib Ullah as chairman EPB export grew from $6.8 billion to $8.7 billion\n\nAs minister of Trade, he also invited a delegation of Zimbabwe to Pakistan, which was led by the Deputy Prime Minister of Zimbabwe. Mian Habib Ullah has led numerous successful business and diplomatic delegations of Pakistan to countries including Yemen, Russia, Uzbekistan, India, Tajikistan, Korea, Iran, Turkey, UAE, Hong Kong, China, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe etc to boost exports and investment.\n\nMian Habib Ullah is also credited with the Success of 65th Izmir International Fair in Turkey, where he was the Chief guest on invitation of Prime Minister of Turkey which was attended by prominent figures from Turkey and abroad. Trade, tourism and industry ministers from Georgia, Nigeria, Palestine, Romania, and Bulgaria were represented.\n\nHe also led a 100-member delegation to South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Business Leaders' Conclave in India.\n\nMian Habib Ullah has been twice awarded gold medal by President of Pakistan Farooq Leghari and President Pervez Musharraf in recognition of services for the business Community/promotion of trade and industry.\n\nMian Habib Ullah led the largest businessmen delegation to Moscow and Central Asia by chartering a private plane including 86 businessmen for bilateral talks in the year 1992.\n\nMiab Habib Ullah has been honored to address thrice at the National Defence College of Pakistan.\n\nMian Habib Ullah also represented Pakistan in United Nations Organizations in Geneva and Tokyo.\n\nMian Habib Ullah shares struggles of an entrepreneur in a book called Kamyaab log کامیاب لوگ by Dr Amjad Saqib CEO of Akhuwat.\n\n"}
{"id": "24503551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24503551", "title": "Ogden Mills Phipps", "text": "Ogden Mills Phipps\n\nOgden Mills \"Dinny\" Phipps (September 18, 1940 – April 6, 2016) was an American financier, Thoroughbred racehorse industry executive, and horse breeder. Widely known by the nickname \"Dinny,\" he was chairman of the family's Bessemer Trust until retiring in 1994, and served as its vice chairman.\n\nThe son of major Thoroughbred breeder Ogden Phipps, his grandmother Gladys Mills Phipps owned the renowned Wheatley Stable and his great-grandfather Ogden Mills who was involved with Thoroughbreds starting at the end of the 19th century, owned racing stables in the United States and was a partner with Lord Derby in a racing stable in France.\n\nA member of the Board of Directors and a past chairman of The Jockey Club and of the New York Racing Association, Phipps was a member of the Jockey Club of Canada. He also served on the board of Breeders' Cup Limited and the National Thoroughbred Racing Association and, with his cousin Stuart S. Janney III, co-owned Orb, the 2013 Kentucky Derby winner.\n\nLike their father and grandmother before them, Dinny Phipps and his sister Cynthia had a long working relationship with the Hancock family's Claiborne breeding farm near Paris, Kentucky. In 1995, Dinny Phipps's great filly Inside Information won the Molly Pitcher Handicap, following his sister Cynthia who won it in 1992 with Versailles Treaty, and his father Ogden who had also won it in 1988 with Personal Ensign.\n\nDinny Phipps and his father were two of the subjects in the 2003 book \"\" by race historian Edward L. Bowen that chronicled the history of Thoroughbred racing's most influential breeders. In 1978 Dinny Phipps received the Eclipse Award of Merit, the horse racing industry's highest honor, plus he was voted the New York Turf Writers Award as \"The Man Who Did the Most for Racing.\" In 2002, Phipps received the Industry Service Award from the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association.\n\nAmong the many successful horses raced by Dinny Phipps were:\n\nIn partnership with William S. Farish III, Dinny Phipps bred Storm Song, the 1996 Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies winner and American Champion Two-Year-Old Filly. In England, Dinny Phipps' horse, Posse, won the 1980 G1 Sussex Stakes and G2 St. James's Palace Stakes and went on to sire Group 1 winners.\n\nIn 2017, he was inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame as a Pillar of the Turf.\n\nPhipps had six children and 24 grandchildren, including five-year-old namesake Ogden Phipps. His wife's name is Ande, the mother of four of the Phipps children.\n\n"}
{"id": "3125659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125659", "title": "Output contract", "text": "Output contract\n\nAn output contract is an agreement in which a producer agrees to sell his or her entire production to the buyer, who in turn agrees to purchase the entire output. Example: an almond grower enters into an \"output contract\" with an almond packer: thus the producer has a \"home\" for output of nuts, and the packer of nuts is happy to try the particular product. The converse of this situation is a requirements contract, under which a seller agrees to supply the buyer with as much of a good or service as the buyer wants, in exchange for the buyer's agreement not to buy that good or service elsewhere.\n\nUniform Commercial Code comment section 2-306: A term which measures the quantity by the output of the seller or the requirements of the buyer, means such actual output or requirements that may occur in good faith. Good faith cessation of production terminates any further obligations thereunder and excuses further performance by the party discontinuing production. However, the cessation of production must be in light of bankruptcy or other similar situations. The yield of less profit from a sale than expected does not excuse further performance of an output contract. See Feld vs. Henry S. Levy & Sons, Inc. (New York, 1975) or Technical Assistance International, Inc. vs. United States (U.S. Court of Appeals, 1998).\n"}
{"id": "32193110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32193110", "title": "Phoenix New Town", "text": "Phoenix New Town\n\nPhoenix New City or Phoenix New Town () is a special district of Tangshan, China that developed as its central business district.\n\nTaking advantage of its good ecological environment, Phoenix New City, which is under construction, aims at the domestic first-class CBD development standards. Sixty-eight key projects are comprehensively promoted with a total investment of 63.5 billion yuan.\n\nDifferent from the traditional expansion type of many cities, Phoenix New City aims at the highest town planning standards in developed countries from the very beginning with commercial, administrative, culture, and green land axes co-existing. \"Eco-oriented\", \"new urbanism\", \"smart growth\" and other advanced international concepts were introduced into the construction to build the domestic first class central business district with eco-tourism and leisure, business services, financial center, the headquarters base, high technology, creative cultural industries, etc.\n\nIn accordance with the strategy of inviting business (focusing on inviting global business and strategic investors to improve core competitiveness) which was brought up in early 2010, the Administrative Committee of Tangshan Phoenix New City targeted at Fortune 500 companies home and abroad to carry out a variety of effective activities to invite business, which achieved remarkable results. In 2010, Tangshan received 200 batches of Chinese and foreign visiting groups. Among these groups, 11 are from global Fortune 500 enterprises, 16 are from China fortune 500 enterprises, and 15 are from China's top 500 private enterprises and top 100 specialized enterprises.\n\nAmong these projects, the residential and commercial projects co-developed by Hong Kong Kerry Group and China Resources Land Group, as well as the residential and commercial projects co-developed by China Water Power Group and China Petroleum Jidong Oil Company started construction. The South Korean Lotte urban complex project and Pangda Automobile Trade Group Jidong Material Building project reached an agreement with the administrative committee and will start construction in 2011. Yicheng Group urban complex project and Beijing Wanke real estate project will be started soon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48193462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48193462", "title": "Remi Eriksen", "text": "Remi Eriksen\n\nRemi Eriksen is the current Group President and Chief Executive Officer of DNV GL, an international classification society and certification body. He assumed the position since August 1, 2015, succeeding former CEO Henrik O. Madsen.\n"}
{"id": "4584893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4584893", "title": "Revolutions of 1989", "text": "Revolutions of 1989\n\nThe Revolutions of 1989 formed part of a revolutionary wave in the late 1980s and early 1990s that resulted in the end of communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe and beyond. The period is sometimes called the Autumn of Nations, a play on the term Spring of Nations that is sometimes used to describe the Revolutions of 1848.\n\nThe events of the full-blown revolution first began in Poland in 1989 and continued in Hungary, East Germany, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia and Romania. One feature common to most of these developments was the extensive use of campaigns of civil resistance, demonstrating popular opposition to the continuation of one-party rule and contributing to the pressure for change. Romania was the only Eastern Bloc country whose citizens overthrew its Communist regime violently. Protests in Tiananmen Square (April–June 1989) failed to stimulate major political changes in China, but influential images of courageous defiance during that protest helped to precipitate events in other parts of the globe. On 4 June 1989, the trade union Solidarity won an overwhelming victory in a partially free election in Poland, leading to the peaceful fall of Communism in that country in the summer of 1989. Also in June 1989, Hungary began dismantling its section of the physical Iron Curtain, leading to an exodus of East Germans through Hungary, which destabilised East Germany. This led to mass demonstrations in cities such as Leipzig and subsequently to the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, which served as the symbolic gateway to German reunification in 1990.\n\nThe Soviet Union dissolved in December 1991, resulting in eleven new countries (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan) which had declared their independence from the Soviet Union in the course of the year while the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) regained their independence in September 1991. The rest of the Soviet Union, which constituted the bulk of the area, became the Russian Federation in December 1991. Albania and Yugoslavia abandoned Communism between 1990 and 1992. By 1992, Yugoslavia had split into five successor states, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was later renamed Serbia and Montenegro in 2003 and eventually split in 2006 into two states, namely Serbia and Montenegro. Serbia was then further split with the breakaway of the partially recognised state of Kosovo in 2008. Czechoslovakia dissolved three years after the end of Communist rule, splitting peacefully into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1992. The impact of these events made itself felt in several Socialist countries. Communism was abandoned in countries such as Cambodia (1991), Ethiopia (1990), Mongolia (which in 1990 democratically re-elected a Communist government that ran the country until 1996) and South Yemen (1990).\n\nDuring the adoption of varying forms of market economy, there was a general decline in living standards for many former Communist countries. Political reforms were varied, but in only four countries were Communist parties able to retain a monopoly on power, namely China, Cuba, Laos and Vietnam (North Korea went through a constitutional change in 2009 that made it nominally no longer Communist, but still \"de facto\" organised on Stalinist lines). Many communist and socialist organisations in the West turned their guiding principles over to social democracy and democratic socialism. Communist parties in Italy and San Marino suffered and the reformation of the Italian political class took place in the early 1990s. In South America, the Pink tide had instead begun, starting with Venezuela in 1999 and sweeping through the early 2000s. The European political landscape changed drastically, with several former Eastern Bloc countries joining NATO and the European Union, resulting in stronger economic and social integration with Western Europe and the United States.\n\nSocialism had been gaining momentum among working class citizens of the world since the 19th century. These culminated in the early 20th century when several states and colonies formed their own communist parties. Many of the countries involved had hierarchical structures with monarchic governments and aristocratic social structures with an established nobility. Socialism was undesirable within the circles of the ruling classes (which had begun to include industrial business leaders) in the late 19th/early 20th century states; as such, communism was repressed. Its champions suffered persecution while people were discouraged from adopting it. This had been the practice even in states which identified as exercising a multi-party system.\n\nThe Russian Revolution of 1917 saw the first communist state in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), when the Bolsheviks overthrew the provisional government.\n\nDuring the period between the world wars, communism had been on the rise in many parts of the world, especially in towns and cities. This led to a series of purges in many countries to stifle the movement. Violent resistance to this repression led to an increase in support for communism in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nIn the early stages of World War II, both Nazi Germany and the USSR invaded and occupied the countries of Eastern Europe after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. Germany then turned against and invaded the USSR: the battles of this Eastern Front were the largest in history. The USSR joined with the Allies and in conferences at Tehran and Yalta, the Allies agreed that Central and Eastern Europe would be in the \"Soviet sphere of political influence.\". The USSR fought the Germans to a standstill and finally began driving them back, reaching Berlin before the end of the war. Nazi ideology was violently anti-communist, and the Nazis brutally suppressed communist movements in the countries it occupied. Communists played a large part in the resistance to the Nazis in these countries. As the Soviets forced the Germans back, they assumed temporary control of these devastated areas.\n\nAfter World War II, the Soviets ensured that communists loyal to Moscow took power in the countries it occupied. The Soviets retained troops throughout these territories. The Cold War saw these states, bound together by the Warsaw Pact, have continuing tensions with the capitalist west, bound together by NATO. The Chinese Revolution established communism in China in 1949.\n\nDuring the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, a spontaneous nationwide anti-authoritarian revolt, the Soviet Union invaded Hungary to assert control. Similarly, in 1968, the USSR repressed the Prague Spring by organizing the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.\n\nLabour turmoil in Poland during 1980 had led to the formation of the independent trade union, Solidarity, led by Lech Wałęsa, which over time became a political force. On 13 December 1981, Polish Prime Minister Wojciech Jaruzelski started a crackdown on Solidarity by declaring martial law in Poland, suspending the union, and temporarily imprisoning all of its leaders.\n\nAlthough several Eastern bloc countries had attempted some abortive, limited economic and political reform since the 1950s (e.g. the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and Prague Spring of 1968), the ascension of reform-minded Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in 1985 signaled the trend toward greater liberalization. During the mid-1980s, a younger generation of Soviet apparatchiks, led by Gorbachev, began advocating fundamental reform in order to reverse years of Brezhnev stagnation. After decades of growth, the Soviet Union was now facing a period of severe economic decline and needed Western technology and credits to make up for its increasing backwardness. The costs of maintaining its military, the KGB, subsidies to foreign client states etc., further strained the moribund Soviet economy.\n\nThe first signs of major reform came in 1986 when Gorbachev launched a policy of \"glasnost\" (openness) in the Soviet Union, and emphasized the need for \"perestroika\" (economic restructuring). By the spring of 1989, the Soviet Union had not only experienced lively media debate, but had also held its first multi-candidate elections in the newly established Congress of People's Deputies. While glasnost ostensibly advocated openness and political criticism, these were only permitted within a narrow spectrum dictated by the state. The general public in the Eastern bloc was still subject to secret police and political repression.\n\nGorbachev urged his Central and Southeast European counterparts to imitate \"perestroika\" and \"glasnost\" in their own countries. However, while reformists in Hungary and Poland were emboldened by the force of liberalization spreading from the east, other Eastern bloc countries remained openly skeptical and demonstrated aversion to reform. Believing Gorbachev's reform initiatives would be short-lived, hardline communist rulers like East Germany's Erich Honecker, Bulgaria's Todor Zhivkov, Czechoslovakia's Gustáv Husák and Romania's Nicolae Ceauşescu obstinately ignored the calls for change. \"When your neighbor puts up new wallpaper, it doesn't mean you have to too,\" declared one East German politburo member.\n\nBy the late 1980s, people in the Caucasus and Baltic states were demanding more autonomy from Moscow, and the Kremlin was losing some of its control over certain regions and elements in the Soviet Union. In November 1988, the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic issued a declaration of sovereignty, which would eventually lead to other states making similar declarations of autonomy.\n\nThe Chernobyl disaster in April 1986 had major political and social effects that catalyzed or at least partially caused the revolutions of 1989. One political result of the disaster was the greatly increased significance of the new Soviet policy of glasnost. It is difficult to establish the total economic cost of the disaster. According to Gorbachev, the Soviet Union spent 18 billion rubles (the equivalent of US$18 billion at that time) on containment and decontamination, virtually bankrupting itself.\n\nIn February 1986, in one of the first peaceful, mass-movement revolutions against a dictatorship, the People Power Revolution in the Philippines peacefully overthrew dictator Ferdinand Marcos and inaugurated Cory Aquino as president.\n\nThe domino effect of the revolutions of 1989 affected other regimes as well. The South African apartheid regime and Pinochet's military dictatorship in Chile were gradually dismantled during the 1990s as the West withdrew their funding and diplomatic support. Argentina, Ghana, Indonesia, Nicaragua, South Korea, Suriname, Republic of China (Taiwan), and North and South Yemen, among many others, elected democratic governments.\n\nExact tallies of the number of democracies vary depending on the criteria used for assessment, but by some measures by the late 1990s there were well over 100 democracies in the world, a marked increase in just a few decades.\n\nThroughout the mid-1980s, Solidarity persisted solely as an underground organization, supported by the Catholic Church. However, by the late 1980s, Solidarity became sufficiently strong to frustrate Jaruzelski's attempts at reform, and nationwide strikes in 1988 forced the government to open dialogue with Solidarity. On 9 March 1989, both sides agreed to a bicameral legislature called the National Assembly. The already existing Sejm would become the lower house. The Senate would be elected by the people. Traditionally a ceremonial office, the presidency was given more powers (Polish Round Table Agreement).\n\nBy 1989, the Soviet Union had repealed the Brezhnev Doctrine in favor of non-intervention in the internal affairs of its Warsaw Pact allies, termed the Sinatra Doctrine in a joking reference to the Frank Sinatra song \"My Way\". Poland became the first Warsaw Pact country to break free of Soviet domination.\n\nNew Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping (1982–1987) developed the concept of socialism with Chinese characteristics and local market economy around 1984, but the policy stalled.\n\nThe first Chinese student demonstrations, which directly preceded the Beijing protests of 1989, took place in December 1986 in Hefei. The students called for campus elections, the chance to study abroad and greater availability of Western pop culture. Their protests took advantage of the loosening political atmosphere and included rallies against the slow pace of reform. Hu Yaobang, a protégé of Deng Xiaoping and a leading advocate of reform, was blamed for the protests and forced to resign as the CCP general secretary in January 1987. In the \"Anti Bourgeois Liberalization Campaign\", Hu would be further denounced.\n\nThe Tiananmen Square protests were sparked by the death of Hu Yaobang on 15 April 1989. By the eve of Hu's state funeral, some 100,000 students had gathered at Tiananmen Square to observe it; however, no leaders emerged from the Great Hall. The movement lasted for seven weeks.\n\nGorbachev's visit to China on 15 May during the protests brought many foreign news agencies to Beijing, and their sympathetic portrayals of the protesters helped galvanize a spirit of liberation among the Central, South-East and Eastern Europeans who were watching. The Chinese leadership, particularly Communist Party general secretary Zhao Ziyang, having begun earlier than the Soviets to radically reform the economy, was open to political reform, but not at the cost of a potential return to the disorder of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe movement lasted from Hu's death on 15 April until tanks rolled into Tiananmen Square on 4 June 1989. In Beijing, the military response to the protest by the PRC government left many civilians in charge of clearing the square of the dead and severely injured. The exact number of casualties is not known and many different estimates exist.\n\nOn 7 July 1989, President Mikhail Gorbachev implicitly renounced the use of force against other Soviet-bloc nations. Speaking to members of the 23-nation Council of Europe, Mr. Gorbachev made no direct reference to the so-called Brezhnev Doctrine, under which Moscow has asserted the right to use force to prevent a Warsaw Pact member from leaving the Communist fold, but stated 'Any interference in domestic affairs and any attempts to restrict the sovereignty of states—friends, allies or any others—are inadmissible.\n\nA wave of strikes hit Poland in April and May 1988, and a second wave began on 15 August that year when a strike broke out at the July Manifesto coal mine in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, the workers demanding the re-legalisation of Solidarity. Over the next few days, sixteen other mines went on strike followed by a number of shipyards, including on 22 August, the Gdansk Shipyard, famous as the epicentre of the 1980 industrial unrest that spawned Solidarity. On 31 August 1988 Lech Wałęsa, the leader of Solidarity, was invited to Warsaw by the Communist authorities, who had finally agreed to talks. On 18 January 1989 at a stormy session of the Tenth Plenary Session of the ruling United Workers' Party, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, the First Secretary, managed to get party backing for formal negotiations with Solidarity leading to its future legalisation, although this was achieved only by threatening the resignation of the entire party leadership if thwarted. On 6 February 1989 formal Round Table discussions began in the Hall of Columns in Warsaw. On 4 April 1989 the historic Round Table Agreement was signed legalising Solidarity and setting up partly free parliamentary elections to be held on 4 June 1989 (incidentally, the day following the midnight crackdown on Chinese protesters in Tiananmen Square). A political earthquake followed. The victory of Solidarity surpassed all predictions. Solidarity candidates captured all the seats they were allowed to compete for in the Sejm, while in the Senate they captured 99 out of the 100 available seats (with the one remaining seat taken by an independent candidate). At the same time, many prominent Communist candidates failed to gain even the minimum number of votes required to capture the seats that were reserved for them.\n\nOn 15 August 1989, the Communists' two longtime coalition partners, the United People's Party (ZSL) and the Democratic Party (SD), broke their alliance with the PZPR and announced their support for Solidarity. The last Communist Prime Minister of Poland, General Czesław Kiszczak, said he would resign to allow a non-Communist to form an administration. As Solidarity was the only other political grouping that could possibly form a government, it was virtually assured that a Solidarity member would become prime minister. On 19 August 1989, in a stunning watershed moment, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, an anti-Communist editor, Solidarity supporter, and devout Catholic, was nominated as Prime Minister of Poland and the Soviet Union voiced no protest. Five days later, on 24 August 1989, Poland's Parliament ended more than 40 years of one-party rule by making Mazowiecki the country's first non-Communist Prime Minister since the early postwar years. In a tense Parliament, Mazowiecki received 378 votes, with 4 against and 41 abstentions. On 13 September 1989, a new non-Communist government was approved by parliament, the first of its kind in the Eastern Bloc. On 17 November 1989 the statue of Felix Dzerzhinsky, Polish founder of the Cheka and symbol of Communist oppression, was torn down in Bank Square, Warsaw. On 29 December 1989 the Sejm amended the constitution to change the official name of the country from the People's Republic of Poland to the Republic of Poland. The communist Polish United Workers' Party dissolved itself on 29 January 1990 and transformed itself into the Social Democracy of the Republic of Poland.\n\nIn 1990, Jaruzelski resigned as Poland's president and was succeeded by Wałęsa, who won the 1990 presidential elections held in two rounds on 25 November and 9 December. Wałęsa's inauguration as president on 21 December 1990 is thought by many to be the formal end of the Communist People's Republic of Poland and the beginning of the modern Republic of Poland. The Warsaw Pact was dissolved on 1 July 1991. On 27 October 1991 the first entirely free Polish parliamentary elections since 1945 took place. This completed Poland's transition from Communist Party rule to a Western-style liberal democratic political system. The last Russian troops left Poland on 18 September 1993.\n\nFollowing Poland's lead, Hungary was next to switch to a non-Communist government. Although Hungary had achieved some lasting economic reforms and limited political liberalization during the 1980s, major reforms only occurred following the replacement of János Kádár as General Secretary of the Communist Party on 23 May 1988 with Károly Grósz. On 24 November 1988 Miklós Németh was appointed Prime Minister. On 12 January 1989, the Parliament adopted a \"democracy package\", which included trade union pluralism; freedom of association, assembly, and the press; a new electoral law; and a radical revision of the constitution, among others. On 29 January 1989, contradicting the official view of history held for more than 30 years, a member of the ruling Politburo, Imre Pozsgay, declared that Hungary's 1956 rebellion was a popular uprising rather than a foreign-instigated attempt at counterrevolution.\nMass demonstrations on 15 March, the National Day, persuaded the regime to begin negotiations with the emergent non-Communist political forces. Round Table talks began on 22 April and continued until the Round Table agreement was signed on 18 September. The talks involved the Communists (MSzMP) and the newly emerging independent political forces Fidesz, the Alliance of Free Democrats (SzDSz), the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF), the Independent Smallholders' Party, the Hungarian People's Party, the Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Society, and the Democratic Trade Union of Scientific Workers. At a later stage the Democratic Confederation of Free Trade Unions and the Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP) were invited. It was at the talks that a number of Hungary's future political leaders emerged, including László Sólyom, József Antall, György Szabad, Péter Tölgyessy and Viktor Orbán.\n\nOn 2 May 1989, the first visible cracks in the Iron Curtain appeared when Hungary began dismantling its long border fence with Austria. This increasingly destabilized the GDR and Czechoslovakia over the summer and autumn as thousands of their citizens illegally crossed over to the West through the Hungarian-Austrian border. On 1 June 1989 the Communist Party admitted that former Prime Minister Imre Nagy, hanged for treason for his role in the 1956 Hungarian uprising, was executed illegally after a show trial. On 16 June 1989 Nagy was given a solemn funeral on Budapest's largest square in front of crowds of at least 100,000, followed by a hero's burial.\n\nThe Round Table agreement of 18 September encompassed six draft laws that covered an overhaul of the Constitution, establishment of a Constitutional Court, the functioning and management of political parties, multiparty elections for National Assembly deputies, the penal code and the law on penal procedures (the last two changes represented an additional separation of the Party from the state apparatus). The electoral system was a compromise: about half of the deputies would be elected proportionally and half by the majoritarian system. A weak presidency was also agreed upon, but no consensus was attained on who should elect the president (parliament or the people) and when this election should occur (before or after parliamentary elections). On 7 October 1989, the Communist Party at its last congress re-established itself as the Hungarian Socialist Party. In a historic session from 16 to 20 October, the parliament adopted legislation providing for multi-party parliamentary elections and a direct presidential election, which took place on March 24, 1990. The legislation transformed Hungary from a People's Republic into the Republic of Hungary, guaranteed human and civil rights, and created an institutional structure that ensured separation of powers among the judicial, legislative, and executive branches of government. On 23 October 1989, on the 33rd anniversary of the 1956 Revolution, the Communist regime in Hungary was formally abolished. The Soviet military occupation of Hungary, which had persisted since World War II, ended on 19 June 1991.\n\nOn 2 May 1989, Hungary started dismantling its barbed-wire border with Austria, opening a large hole through the Iron Curtain to the West that was used by a growing number of East Germans. By the end of September 1989, more than 30,000 East Germans had escaped to the West before the GDR denied travel to Hungary, leaving the CSSR (Czechoslovakia) as the only neighboring state where East Germans could escape to. Thousands of East Germans tried to reach the West by occupying the West German diplomatic facilities in other Central and Eastern European capitals, notably the Prague Embassy and the Hungarian Embassy where thousands camped in the muddy garden from August to November waiting for German political reform. The GDR closed the border to the CSSR on 3 October, thereby isolating itself from all neighbors. Having been shut off from their last chance for escape, an increasing number of East Germans participated in the Monday demonstrations in Leipzig on 4, 11, and 18 September, each attracting 1,200 to 1,500 demonstrators; many were arrested and beaten. However, the people refused to be intimidated. On 25 September, the protests attracted 8,000 demonstrators.\n\nAfter the fifth successive Monday demonstration in Leipzig on 2 October attracted 10,000 protesters, Socialist Unity Party (SED) leader Erich Honecker issued a \"shoot and kill\" order to the military. Communists prepared a huge police, militia, Stasi, and work-combat troop presence and there were rumors a Tiananmen Square-style massacre was being planned for the following Monday's demonstration on 9 October.\n\nOn 6 and 7 October, Mikhail Gorbachev visited East Germany to mark the 40th anniversary of the German Democratic Republic, and urged the East German leadership to accept reform. A famous quote of his is rendered in German as \"Wer zu spät kommt, den bestraft das Leben\" (\"He who is too late is punished by life\"). However, Honecker remained opposed to internal reform, with his regime even going so far as forbidding the circulation of Soviet publications that it viewed as subversive.\n\nIn spite of rumors that the Communists were planning a massacre on 9 October, 70,000 citizens demonstrated in Leipzig that Monday, and the authorities on the ground refused to open fire. This victory of the people facing down the Communists' guns encouraged more citizens to take to the streets. The following Monday, 16 October, 120,000 people demonstrated on the streets of Leipzig.\n\nErich Honecker had hoped that the Soviet troops stationed in the GDR, as by the Warsaw Pact, would restore the communist government and suppress the civilian protests. By 1989 the Soviet government deemed it impractical for the Soviet Union to continue asserting its control over the Eastern Bloc, and so it took a neutral stance regarding the events happening in East Germany. Soviet troops stationed in eastern Europe were under strict instructions from the Soviet leadership not to intervene in the political affairs of the Eastern Bloc nations and had to remain in their barracks. Faced with ongoing civil unrest, the SED deposed Honecker on 18 October and replaced him with the number-two-man in the regime, Egon Krenz. However, the demonstrations kept growing and on Monday 23 October the Leipzig protesters numbered 300,000 and remained as large the following week. The border to Czechoslovakia was opened again on 1 November, but the Czechoslovak authorities soon let all East Germans travel directly to West Germany without further bureaucratic ado, thus lifting their part of the Iron Curtain on 3 November. On 4 November the authorities decided to authorize a demonstration in Berlin and were faced with the Alexanderplatz demonstration where half a million citizens converged on the capital demanding freedom in the biggest protest the GDR ever witnessed. Unable to stem the ensuing flow of refugees to the West through Czechoslovakia, the East German authorities eventually caved in to public pressure by allowing East German citizens to enter West Berlin and West Germany directly, via existing border points, on 9 November 1989, without having properly briefed the border guards. Triggered by the erratic words of regime spokesman Günter Schabowski in a TV press conference, stating that the planned changes were in effect \"immediately, without delay,\" hundreds of thousands of people took advantage of the opportunity. The guards were quickly overwhelmed by the growing crowds of people demanding to be let out into West Berlin. After receiving no feedback from their superiors, the guards, unwilling to use force, relented and opened the gates to West Berlin. Soon new crossing points were forced open in the Berlin Wall by the people, and sections of the wall were literally torn down as this symbol of oppression was overwhelmed. The bewildered guards were unaware of what was happening and meekly stood by as the East Germans took to the wall with hammers and chisels.\n\nOn 13 November, GDR Prime Minister Willi Stoph and his entire cabinet resigned. A new government was formed under a considerably more liberal Communist, Hans Modrow. On 1 December, the Volkskammer removed the SED's leading role from the constitution of the GDR. On 3 December Krenz resigned as leader of the SED; he resigned as head of state three days later. On 7 December Round Table talks opened between the SED and other political parties. On 16 December 1989, the SED was dissolved and refounded as the SED-PDS, abandoning Marxism-Leninism and becoming a mainstream democratic socialist party.\n\nOn 15 January 1990, the Stasi's headquarters was stormed by protesters. Modrow became the de facto leader of East Germany until free elections were held on 18 March 1990—the first held in that part of Germany since 1933. The SED, renamed the Party of Democratic Socialism, was heavily defeated. Lothar de Maizière of the East German Christian Democratic Union became Prime Minister on 4 April 1990 on a platform of speedy reunification with the West. The two Germanies were reunified on 3 October 1990.\n\nThe Kremlin's willingness to abandon such a strategically vital ally marked a dramatic shift by the Soviet superpower and a fundamental paradigm change in international relations, which until 1989 had been dominated by the East-West divide running through Berlin itself. The last Russian troops left the territory of the former GDR, now part of a reunited Federal Republic of Germany, on 1 September 1994.\n\nThe \"Velvet Revolution\" was a non-violent revolution in Czechoslovakia that saw the overthrow of the Communist government. On 17 November 1989 (Friday), riot police suppressed a peaceful student demonstration in Prague, although controversy continues over whether anyone died that night. That event sparked a series of popular demonstrations from 19 November to late December. By 20 November the number of peaceful protesters assembled in Prague had swelled from 200,000 the previous day to an estimated half-million. Five days later, the Letná Square protest held 800,000 people. On 24 November, the entire Communist Party leadership, including general secretary Miloš Jakeš, resigned. A two-hour general strike, involving all citizens of Czechoslovakia, was successfully held on 27 November.\n\nWith the collapse of other Communist governments, and increasing street protests, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia announced on 28 November 1989 that it would relinquish power and dismantle the single-party state. Barbed wire and other obstructions were removed from the border with West Germany and Austria in early December. On 10 December, President Gustáv Husák appointed the first largely non-Communist government in Czechoslovakia since 1948, and resigned. Alexander Dubček was elected speaker of the federal parliament on 28 December and Václav Havel the President of Czechoslovakia on 29 December 1989. In June 1990 Czechoslovakia held its first democratic elections since 1946. On 27 June 1991 the last Soviet troops were withdrawn from Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn October and November 1989, demonstrations on ecological issues were staged in Sofia, where demands for political reform were also voiced. The demonstrations were suppressed, but on 10 November 1989 (the day after the Berlin Wall was breached) Bulgaria's long-serving leader Todor Zhivkov was ousted by his Politburo. He was succeeded by a considerably more liberal Communist, former foreign minister Petar Mladenov. Moscow apparently approved the leadership change, as Zhivkov had been opposed to Gorbachev's policies. The new regime immediately repealed restrictions on free speech and assembly, which led to the first mass demonstration on 17 November, as well as the formation of anti-communist movements. Nine of them united as the Union of Democratic Forces (UDF) on 7 December. The UDF was not satisfied with Zhivkov's ouster, and demanded additional democratic reforms, most importantly the removal of the constitutionally mandated leading role of the Bulgarian Communist Party.\n\nMladenov announced on 11 December 1989 that the Communist Party would abandon its monopoly on power, and that multiparty elections would be held the following year. In February 1990, the Bulgarian legislature deleted the portion of the constitution about the \"leading role\" of the Communist Party. Eventually, it was decided that a round table on the Polish model would be held in 1990 and elections held by June 1990. The round table took place from 3 January to 14 May 1990, at which an agreement was reached on the transition to democracy. The Communist Party abandoned Marxism–Leninism in April 1990 and renamed itself as the Bulgarian Socialist Party. In June 1990 the first free elections since 1931 were held, won by the Bulgarian Socialist Party.\n\nAfter having suppressed the Braşov Rebellion in 1987, Nicolae Ceauşescu was re-elected for another five years as leader of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR) in November 1989, signalling that he intended to ride out the anti-Communist uprisings sweeping the rest of Europe. As Ceauşescu prepared to go on a state visit to Iran, his Securitate ordered the arrest and exile of a local Hungarian Calvinist minister, László Tőkés, on 16 December, for sermons offending the regime. Tőkés was seized, but only after serious rioting erupted. Timişoara was the first city to react on 16 December and civil unrest continued for five days.\n\nReturning from Iran, Ceauşescu ordered a mass rally in his support outside Communist Party headquarters in Bucharest on 21 December. However, to his shock the crowd booed and jeered him as he spoke. Years of repressed dissatisfaction boiled to the surface throughout the Romanian populace and even among elements in Ceauşescu's own government, and the demonstrations spread throughout the country.\n\nAt first the security forces obeyed Ceauşescu's orders to shoot protesters. However, on the morning of 22 December, the Romanian military suddenly changed sides. This came after it was announced that defense minister Vasile Milea had committed suicide after being unmasked as a traitor. Believing Milea had actually been murdered, the rank-and-file soldiers went over virtually \"en masse\" to the revolution. Army tanks began moving towards the Central Committee building with crowds swarming alongside them. The rioters forced open the doors of the Central Committee building in an attempt to capture Ceauşescu and his wife, Elena, coming within a few meters of the couple. However, they managed to escape via a helicopter waiting for them on the roof of the building. The revolution resulted in 1,104 deaths. Unlike its kindred parties in the Warsaw Pact, the PCR simply melted away; no present-day Romanian party claiming to be its successor has ever been elected to the legislature since the change of system.\n\nAlthough elation followed the flight of the Ceauşescus, uncertainty surrounded their fate. On Christmas Day, Romanian television showed the Ceauşescus facing a hasty trial, and then undergoing summary execution. An interim National Salvation Front Council led by Ion Iliescu took over and announced elections for April 1990, the first free elections held in Romania since 1937. However, they were postponed until 20 May 1990. Over 1,000 people died during the Romanian Revolution, out of which 100 where children and the youngest was only one month. The Romanian dictator, Nicolae Ceauşescu, and his wife, Elena Ceauşescu, were executed by firing squad after a very brief trial. The Romanian Revolution was the bloodiest of the revolutions of 1989.\n\nMongolia declared independence in 1911 after the collapse of the Qing dynasty. The Mongolian People's Party took power in 1921 and the party renamed itself the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party. During the years, Mongolia was closely aligned with the Soviet Union. After Yumjaagiin Tsedenbal left in 1984, the new leadership under Jambyn Batmönkh implemented economic reforms, but failed to appeal to those who, in late 1989, wanted broader changes, which led to the \"Mongolian Revolution\", a democratic peaceful revolution that started with demonstrations and hunger strikes that ended 70-years of socialism and eventually moved towards democracy. It was spearheaded by mostly younger people demonstrating on Sükhbaatar Square in the capital Ulaanbaatar. It ended with the authoritarian government resigning without bloodshed. Some of the main organizers were Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj, Sanjaasürengiin Zorig, Erdeniin Bat-Üül, and Bat-Erdeniin Batbayar.\n\nDuring the period of the morning of 10 December 1989, the first public demonstration occurred in front of the Youth Cultural Center in the capital of Ulaanbaatar. There, Elbegdorj announced the creation of the Mongolian Democratic Union. There the Democratic Union-first pro-democracy movement in Mongolia was born. The protesters called for Mongolia to adopt perestroika and glasnost. Dissident leaders demanded free elections and economic reform, but within the context of a \"human democratic socialism\". The protesters injected a nationalist element into the protests by using traditional Mongolian script—which most Mongolians could not read—as a symbolic repudiation of the political system which had imposed the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet. In late December 1989, demonstrations increased when news came of Garry Kasparov's interview to \"Playboy\", suggesting that the Soviet Union could improve its economic health by selling Mongolia to China. On 14 January 1990, the protesters, having grown from three hundred to some 1,000, met on square in front of Lenin Museum which was named as Freedom Square since then in Ulaanbaatar. A demonstration on Sükhbaatar Square on 21 January (in weather of -30 C) followed. Protesters carried banners alluding to Chinggis Khaan (also referred to Genghis Khan), rehabilitating a figure which Soviet schooling neglected to praise.\n\nIn subsequent months of 1990, activists continued to organize demonstrations, rallies, protests and hunger strikes, as well as teachers' and workers' strikes. Activists had growing support from Mongolians, both in the capital and the countryside and the union's activities led to other calls for democracy all over the country. After numerous demonstrations of many thousands of people in the capital city as well as provincial centers, on 4 March 1990, the MDU and three other reform organizations held a joint outdoor mass meeting, inviting the government to attend. The government sent no representative to what became a demonstration of over 100,000 people demanding democratic change. This culminated with Jambyn Batmönkh, chairman of Politburo of MPRP's Central Committee decided to dissolve the Politburo and to resign on 9 March 1990.\n\nMongolia's first free, multi-party elections for a bicameral parliament took place on 29 July 1990. Parties ran for 430 seats in the Great Hural. Opposition parties were not able to nominate enough candidates. The opposition nominated 346 candidates for the 430 seats in the Great Hural (upper house). The Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party MPRP won 357 seats in the Great Hural and 31 out of 53 seats in the Small Hural (which was later abolished) as well. The MPRP enjoyed a strong position in the countryside. The State Great Khural first met on 3 September 1990 and elected a president (MPRP), vice president (Social Democrat) who was also a chairman of the Baga Hural, prime minister (MPRP), and 50 members to the Baga Hural (lower house). In November 1991, the People's Great Hural began discussion on a new constitution, which entered into force on 12 February 1992. In addition, the new constitution restructured the legislative branch of government, creating a unicameral legislature, the State Great Hural (SGH). The MPRP retained its majority, but lost the 1996 elections. The final Russian troops, which had stationed in Mongolia in 1966, fully withdrew in December 1992.\n\nThe Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was not a part of the Warsaw Pact but pursued its own version of \"Communism\" under Josip Broz Tito. It was a multi-ethnic state which Tito was able to maintain through a doctrine of \"Brotherhood and unity\", but tensions between ethnicities began to escalate with the so-called Croatian Spring of 1970–71, a movement for greater Croatian autonomy, which was suppressed. In 1974 there followed constitutional changes, and the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution devolved some of the federal powers to the constituent republics and provinces. After Tito's death in 1980 ethnic tensions grew, first in Albanian-majority SAP Kosovo with the 1981 protests in Kosovo. In the late 1980s Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević used the Kosovo crisis to stoke up Serb nationalism and attempt to consolidate and dominate the country, which alienated the other ethnic groups.\n\nParallel to the same process, SR Slovenia witnessed a policy of gradual liberalization since 1984, somewhat similar to the Soviet Perestroika. This provoked tensions between the League of Communists of Slovenia on one side, and the central Yugoslav Party and the federal army on the other side. By the late 1980s, many civil society groups were pushing towards democratization, while widening the space for cultural plurality. In 1987 and 1988, a series of clashes between the emerging civil society and the Communist regime culminated with the so-called Slovene Spring, a mass movement for democratic reforms. The Committee for the Defence of Human Rights was established as the platform of all major non-Communist political movements. By early 1989, several anti-Communist political parties were already openly functioning, challenging the hegemony of the Slovenian Communists. Soon, the Slovenian Communists, pressured by their own civil society, came into conflict with the Serbian Communist leadership.\n\nIn January 1990, an extraordinary Congress of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia was called in order to settle the disputes among its constituent parties. Faced with being completely outnumbered, the Slovenian and Croatian Communists walked out of the Congress on 23 January 1990, thus effectively bringing to an end the Yugoslav Communist Party. Both parties of the two western republics negotiated free multi-party elections with their own opposition movements.\n\nOn 8 April 1990, the democratic and anti-Yugoslav DEMOS coalition won the elections in Slovenia, while on 24 April 1990 the Croatian elections witnessed the landslide victory of the nationalist Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) led by Franjo Tuđman. The results were much more balanced in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia in November 1990, while the parliamentary and presidential elections of December 1990 in Serbia and Montenegro consolidated the power of Milošević and his supporters. Free elections on the level of the federation were never carried out.\n\nThe Slovenian and Croatian leaderships started preparing plans for secession from the federation, while the Serbs of Croatia organized the so-called Log Revolution, an insurrection that would lead to the creation of the breakaway region of SAO Krajina. In the Slovenian independence referendum on 23 December 1990, 88.5% of residents voted for independence. In the Croatian independence referendum on 2 May 1991, 93.24% voted for independence.\n\nThe escalating ethnic and national tensions were exacerbated by the drive for independence and led to the following Yugoslav wars:\n\nIn addition, the insurgency in the Preševo Valley (1999–2001) and the insurgency in the Republic of Macedonia (2001) are also often discussed in the same context.\n\nIn the People's Socialist Republic of Albania, Enver Hoxha, who led Albania for four decades, died on 11 April 1985. His successor, Ramiz Alia, began to gradually open up the regime from above. In 1989, the first revolts started in Shkodra and spread in other cities. Eventually, the existing regime introduced some liberalization, including measures in 1990 providing for freedom to travel abroad. Efforts were begun to improve ties with the outside world. March 1991 elections—the first free elections in Albania since 1923, and only the third free elections in the country's history—left the former Communists in power, but a general strike and urban opposition led to the formation of a coalition cabinet including non-Communists. Albania's former Communists were routed in elections held in March 1992, amid economic collapse and social unrest.\n\nThe Malta Summit consisted of a meeting between U.S. President George H. W. Bush and U.S.S.R. leader Mikhail Gorbachev, taking place between 2–3 December 1989, just a few weeks after the fall of the Berlin Wall, a meeting which contributed to the end of the Cold War partially as a result of the broader pro-democracy movement. It was their second meeting following a meeting that included then President Ronald Reagan, in New York in December 1988. News reports of the time referred to the Malta Summit as the most important since 1945, when British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Soviet premier Joseph Stalin and U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt agreed on a post-war plan for Europe at the Yalta Conference.\n\nBetween June 1989 and April 1991, every Communist or former Communist Central and Eastern European or Asian country—and in the case of the USSR and Yugoslavia every constituent republic—held competitive parliamentary elections for the first time in many decades. Some elections were only partly free, others fully democratic. The chronology below gives the details of these historic elections and the date is the first day of voting as several elections were split over several days for run-off contests:\n\nOn 1 July 1991, the Warsaw Pact was officially dissolved at a meeting in Prague. At a summit later that same month, Gorbachev and Bush declared a US–Soviet strategic partnership, decisively marking the end of the Cold War. President Bush declared that US–Soviet cooperation during the 1990–1991 Gulf War had laid the groundwork for a partnership in resolving bilateral and world problems.\n\nAs the Soviet Union rapidly withdrew its forces from Central and Southeast Europe, the spillover from the 1989 upheavals began reverberating throughout the Soviet Union itself. Agitation for self-determination led to first Lithuania, and then Estonia, Latvia and Armenia declaring independence. However, the Soviet central government demanded the revocation of the declarations and threatened military action and economic sanctions. The government even went as far as controversially sending Red Army troops to the streets of the Lithuanian capital, Vilnius, to suppress the separatist movements in January 1991, causing the deaths of 14 people.\n\nDisaffection in other Soviet republics, such as Georgia and Azerbaijan, was countered by promises of greater decentralization. More open elections led to the election of candidates opposed to Communist Party rule.\n\n\"Glasnost\" had inadvertently released the long-suppressed national sentiments of all peoples within the borders of the multinational Soviet state. These nationalist movements were further strengthened by the rapid deterioration of the Soviet economy, whose ramshackle foundations were exposed with the removal of Communist discipline. Gorbachev's reforms had failed to improve the economy, with the old Soviet command structure completely breaking down. One by one, the constituent republics created their own economic systems and voted to subordinate Soviet laws to local laws. In 1990, the Communist Party was forced to surrender its seven-decade monopoly of political power when the Supreme Soviet rescinded the clause in the Soviet Constitution that guaranteed its sole authority to rule. Gorbachev's policies caused the Communist Party to lose its grip over the media. Details of the Soviet Union's past were quickly being declassified. This caused many to distrust the 'old system' and push for greater autonomy and independence.\n\nAfter a referendum confirmed the preservation of the Soviet Union but in a looser form, a group of Soviet hard-liners represented by Vice-President Gennadi Yanayev launched a coup attempting to overthrow Gorbachev in August 1991. Boris Yeltsin, then president of the Russian SFSR, rallied the people and much of the army against the coup and the effort collapsed. Although restored to power, Gorbachev's authority had been irreparably undermined. Gorbachev resigned as General Secretary of the Communist Party following the coup, and the Supreme Soviet dissolved the Party and banned all Communist activity on Soviet soil. Just a few weeks later, the government granted the Baltic states their independence on 6 September.\n\nOver the next three months, one republic after another declared independence, mostly out of fear of another coup. Also during this time, the Soviet government was rendered useless as the new Russian government began taking over what remained of it, including the Kremlin. The penultimate step came on 1 December, when voters in the second most powerful republic, Ukraine, overwhelmingly voted to secede from the Soviet Union in a referendum. This ended any realistic chance of keeping the Soviet Union together. On 8 December, Yeltsin met with his counterparts from Ukraine and Belarus and signed the Belavezha Accords, declaring that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist. Gorbachev denounced this as illegal, but he had long since lost any ability to influence events outside of Moscow.\n\nTwo weeks later, 11 of the remaining 12 republics—all except Georgia—signed the Alma-Ata Protocol, which confirmed the Soviet Union had been effectively dissolved and replaced by a new voluntary association, the Commonwealth of Independent States. Bowing to the inevitable, Gorbachev resigned as Soviet president on 25 December, and the Supreme Soviet ratified the Belavezha Accords the next day, legally dissolving itself and the Soviet Union as a political entity. By the end of 1991, the few Soviet institutions that hadn't been taken over by Russia had dissolved. The Soviet Union was officially disbanded, breaking up into fifteen constituent parts, thereby ending the world's largest and most influential Socialist state, and leaving to China that position. A constitutional crisis dissolved into violence in Moscow as the Russian Army was called in to reestablish order.\n\nEstonia, Latvia and Lithuania implemented democratic reforms and achieved independence from the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Singing Revolution is a commonly used name for events between 1987 and 1991 that led to the restoration of the independence of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The term was coined by an Estonian activist and artist, Heinz Valk, in an article published a week after the 10–11 June 1988 spontaneous mass night-singing demonstrations at the Tallinn Song Festival Grounds. Estonia declared its sovereignty from the Soviet Union on 16 November 1988. Lithuania followed on 18 May 1989 and Latvia on 28 July 1989. Lithuania declared full independence on 11 March 1990 and on 30 March, Estonia announced the start of a transitional period to independence, followed by Latvia on 4 May. These declarations were met with force from the Soviet Union in early 1991, in confrontations known as the \"January Events\" in Lithuania and \"The Barricades\" in Latvia. The Baltic states contended that their incorporation into the Soviet Union had been illegal under both international law and their own law, and they were reasserting an independence that still legally existed.\n\nSoon after the launching of the August coup, Estonia and Latvia declared full independence. By the time the coup was foiled, the USSR was no longer unified enough to mount a forceful resistance, and it recognized the independence of the Baltic states on 6 September.\n\n\n\nIn Chechnya, using tactics partly copied from the Baltics, anti-Communist coalition forces led by former Soviet general Dzhokhar Dudayev staged a largely bloodless revolution, and ended up forcing the resignation of the Communist republican president. Dudayev was elected in a landslide in the following election and in November 1991 he proclaimed Checheno-Ingushetia's independence as the Republic of Ichkeria. Ingushetia voted to leave the union with Chechnya, and was allowed to do so (thus it became the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria). Due to his desire to exclude Moscow from all oil deals, Yeltsin backed a failed coup against him in 1993. In 1994, Chechnya, with only marginal recognition (one country: Georgia, which was revoked soon after the coup landing Shevardnadze in power), was invaded by Russia, spurring the First Chechen War. The Chechens, with considerable assistance from the populations of both former-Soviet countries and from Sunni Muslim countries repelled this invasion and a peace treaty was signed in 1997. However, Chechnya became increasingly anarchic, largely due to the both political and physical destruction of the state during the invasion, and general Shamil Basaev, having evaded all control by the central government, conducted raids into neighboring Dagestan, which Russia used as pretext for reinvading Ichkeria. Ichkeria was then reincorporated into Russia as Chechnya again, though insurgency continues.\n\n\nRussia was involved in a number of conflicts, including the Nagorno-Karabakh War, the War of Transnistria, the 1991–1992 South Ossetia War, the First Chechen War, the War in Abkhazia, the Ossetian–Ingush conflict, and the Crimea and Donbass conflicts in Ukraine.\n\nReforms in the Soviet Union and its allied countries also saw dramatic changes to Communist and Socialist states outside of Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany Soviet-supported political parties and militant groups around the world suffered from demoralization and loss of financing.\n\nConcurrently, many anti-Communist authoritarian states, formerly supported by the US, gradually saw a transition to democracy.\n\nCountries that emerged into socialist-styled governments beyond 1991.\n\nDecommunization is a process of overcoming the legacies of the Communist state establishments, culture, and psychology in the post-Communist states.\n\nDecommunization was largely limited or non-existent. Communist parties were not outlawed and their members were not brought to trial. Just a few places even attempted to exclude members of communist secret services from decision-making. In a number of countries the Communist party simply changed its name and continued to function.\n\nIn several European countries, however, endorsing or attempting to justify crimes committed by Nazi or Communist regimes will be punishable by up to 3 years of imprisonment.\n\nState run enterprises in socialist countries had little or no interest in producing what customers wanted which resulted in shortages of goods and services. In the early 1990s, the general view was that there was no precedent for moving from socialism to capitalism\", and only some elderly people remembered how a market economy worked. As result the view that Central, Southeastern and Eastern Europe would stay poor for decades was common.\n\nThere was a temporary fall of output in the official economy and an increase in black market economic activity.\nCountries implemented different reform programs. One example, generally regarded as successful was the \"shock therapy\" Balcerowicz Plan in Poland. Eventually the official economy began to grow.\n\nIn a 2007 paper, Oleh Havrylyshyn categorized the speed of reforms in the Soviet Bloc:\n\nThe 2004 enlargement of the European Union included the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia. The 2007 enlargement of the European Union included Romania and Bulgaria, and Croatia joined the EU in 2013. The same countries have also become NATO members. In Mongolia, however, its economy was reformed in a similar fashion to the Eastern European counterparts.\n\nChinese economic liberalization started since 1978 have helped lift millions of people out of poverty, bringing the poverty rate down from 53% of the population in the Mao era to 12% in 1981. Deng's economic reforms are still being followed by the CPC today and by 2001 the poverty rate became only 6% of the population.\n\nEconomic liberalization in Vietnam was initiated in 1986, following the Chinese example.\n\nEconomic liberalization in India was initiated in 1991.\n\nHarvard University Professor Richard B. Freeman has called the effect of reforms \"The Great Doubling\". He calculated that the size of the global workforce doubled from 1.46 billion workers to 2.93 billion workers. An immediate effect was a reduced ratio of capital to labor. In the long, term China, India, and the former Soviet bloc will save and invest and contribute to the expansion of the world capital stock.\n\nCompared with the efforts of the other former constituents of the Soviet bloc and the Soviet Union, decommunization in Russia has been restricted to half-measures, if conducted at all. As of 2008, nearly half of Russians viewed Stalin positively, and many supported restoration of his previously dismantled monuments. Neo-Stalinist material such as describing Stalin's mass murder campaigns as \"entirely rational\" has been pushed into Russian textbooks.\n\nIn 1992, President Yeltsin's government invited Vladimir Bukovsky to serve as an expert to testify at the CPSU trial by Constitutional Court of Russia, where the Communists were suing Yeltsin for banning their party. The respondent's case was that the CPSU itself had been an unconstitutional organization. To prepare for his testimony, Bukovsky requested and was granted access to a large number of documents from Soviet archives (then reorganized into TsKhSD). Using a small handheld scanner and a laptop computer, he managed to secretly scan many documents (some with high security clearance), including KGB reports to the Central Committee, and smuggle the files to the West. The event that many expected would be another Nuremberg Trial and the beginnings of reconciliation with the Communist past, ended up in half-measures: while the CPSU was found unconstitutional, the Communists were allowed to form new parties in the future. Bukovsky expressed his deep disappointment with this in his writings and interviews: \"Having failed to finish off conclusively the Communist system, we are now in danger of integrating the resulting monster into our world. It may not be called Communism anymore, but it retained many of its dangerous characteristics... Until the Nuremberg-style tribunal passes its judgment on all the crimes committed by Communism, it is not dead and the war is not over.\"\n\nThe events caught many by surprise. Predictions of the Soviet Union's impending demise had been often dismissed.\n\nBartlomiej Kaminski's book \"The Collapse of State Socialism\" argued that the state Socialist system has a lethal paradox, saying that \"policy actions designed to improve performance only accelerate its decay\".\n\nBy the end of 1989, revolts had spread from one capital to another, ousting the regimes imposed on Central, South-East and Eastern Europe after World War II. Even the isolationist Stalinist regime in Albania was unable to stem the tide. Gorbachev's abrogation of the Brezhnev Doctrine was perhaps the key factor that enabled the popular uprisings to succeed. Once it became evident that the feared Soviet Army would not intervene to crush dissent, the Central, South-East and Eastern European regimes were exposed as vulnerable in the face of popular uprisings against the one-party system and power of secret police.\n\nCoit D. Blacker wrote in 1990 that the Soviet leadership \"appeared to have believed that whatever loss of authority the Soviet Union might suffer in Central and South-East Europe would be more than offset by a net increase in its influence in western Europe.\" Nevertheless, it is unlikely that Gorbachev ever intended for the complete dismantling of Communism and the Warsaw Pact. Rather, Gorbachev assumed that the Communist parties of Central and South-East Europe could be reformed in a similar way to the reforms he hoped to achieve in the CPSU. Just as \"perestroika\" was aimed at making the Soviet Union more efficient economically and politically, Gorbachev believed that the Comecon and Warsaw Pact could be reformed into more effective entities. However, Alexander Yakovlev, a close advisor to Gorbachev, would later state that it would have been \"absurd to keep the system\" in Central and South-East Europe. Yakovlev had come to the conclusion that the Soviet-dominated Comecon could not work on non-market principles and that the Warsaw Pact had \"no relevance to real life.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2916935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2916935", "title": "Security interest", "text": "Security interest\n\nA security interest is a legal right granted by a debtor to a creditor over the debtor's property (usually referred to as the \"collateral\") which enables the creditor to have recourse to the property if the debtor defaults in making payment or otherwise performing the secured obligations. One of the most common examples of a security interest is a mortgage: When person, by the action of an expressed conveyance, pledges by a promise to pay a certain sum of money, with certain conditions, on a said date or dates for a said period, that action on the page with wet ink applied on the part of the one wishing the exchange creates the original funds and negotiable Instrument. That action of pledging conveys a promise binding upon the mortgagee which creates a face value upon the Instrument of the amount of currency being asked for in exchange. It is therein in good faith offered to the Bank in exchange for local currency from the Bank to buy a house. The particular country's Bank Acts usually requires the Banks to deliver such fund bearing negotiable instruments to the Countries Main Bank such as is the case in Canada. This creates a security interest in the land the house sits on for the Bank and they file a caveat at land titles on the house as evidence of that security interest. If the mortgagee fails to pay defaulting in his promise to repay the exchange, the bank then applies to the court to for-close on your property to eventually sell the house and apply the proceeds to the outstanding exchange.\n\nAlthough most security interests are created by agreement between the parties, it is also possible for a security interest to arise by operation of law. For example, in many jurisdictions a mechanic who repairs a car benefits from a lien over the car for the cost of repairs. This lien arises by operation of law in the absence of any agreement between the parties.\n\nMost security interests are granted by the person who owns the property to secure their own indebtedness. But it is also possible for a person to grant security over their property as collateral for the debts of another person (often called \"third party security\"). So a parent might grant a security interest over their home to support a business loan being made to their child. Similarly, most security interests operate to secure debts or other direct financial obligations. But sometimes a security is granted to secure a non-financial obligation. For example in construction a performance bond may secure the satisfactory performance of non-financial obligations.\n\nThe different types of security interest which can arise and the rights which they confer will vary from country to country.\n\nA secured creditor takes a security interest to enforce its rights against collateral in case the debtor defaults on the obligation. If the debtor goes bankrupt, a secured creditor takes precedence over unsecured creditors in the distribution.\n\nThere are other reasons that people sometimes take security over assets. In shareholders' agreements involving two parties (such as a joint venture), sometimes the shareholders . It is sometimes suggested that banks may take floating charges over companies by way of security - not so much for the security for payment of their own debts, but because this ensures that no other bank will, ordinarily, lend to the company; thereby almost granting a monopoly in favour of the bank holding the floating charge on lending to the company.\n\nSome economists question the utility of security interests and secured lending generally. Proponents argue that secured interests lower the risk for the lender, and in turn allows the lender to charge lower interest, thereby lowering the cost of capital for the borrower. For example, interest rates for a mortgage loan (for which the mortgage is secured by the real property) are considerably lower than for a credit card debt (where there may be no collateral at all, or such collateral is easily hidden or depreciates rapidly).\n\nDetractors argue that creditors with security interests can destroy companies that are in financial difficulty, but which might still recover and be profitable. The secured lenders might get nervous and enforce the security early, repossessing key assets and forcing the company into bankruptcy. Further, the general principle of most insolvency regimes is that creditors should be treated equally (or \"pari passu\"), and allowing secured creditors a preference to certain assets upsets the conceptual basis of an insolvency.\n\nMore sophisticated criticisms of security point out that although unsecured creditors will receive less on insolvency, they should be able to compensate by charging a higher interest rate. However, since many unsecured creditors are unable to adjust their \"interest rates\" upwards (tort claimants, employees), the company benefits from a cheaper rate of credit, to the detriment of these non-adjusting creditors. There is thus a transfer of value from these parties to secured borrowers.\n\nMost insolvency law allows mutual debts to be set-off, allowing certain creditors (those who also owe money to the insolvent debtor) a pre-preferential position. In some countries, \"involuntary\" creditors (such as tort victims) also have preferential status, and in others environmental claims have special preferred rights for cleanup costs.\n\nThe most frequently used criticism of secured lending is that, if secured creditors are allowed to seize and sell key assets, a liquidator or bankruptcy trustee loses the ability to sell off the business as a going concern, and may be forced to sell the business on a break-up basis. This may mean realising a much smaller return for the unsecured creditors, and will invariably mean that all the employees will be made redundant.\n\nFor this reason, many jurisdictions restrict the ability of secured creditors to enforce their rights in a bankruptcy. In the U.S., the Chapter 11 creditor protection, which completely prevents enforcement of security interests, aims at keeping enterprises running at the expense of creditors' rights, and is often heavily criticised for that reason. In the United Kingdom, an administration order has a similar effect, but is less expansive in scope and restriction in terms of creditors rights. European systems are often touted as being pro-creditor, but many European jurisdictions also impose restrictions upon time limits that must be observed before secured creditors can enforce their rights. The most draconian jurisdictions in favour of creditor's rights tend to be in offshore financial centres, who hope that, by having a legal system heavily biased towards secured creditors, they will encourage banks to lend at cheaper rates to offshore structures, and thus in turn encourage business to use them to obtain cheaper funds.\n\nUnder English law and in most common law jurisdictions derived from English law (the United States is the exception as explained below), there are nine major types of proprietary security interests:\n\n\nThe United States also developed the conditional sale of personal property as another form of security interest, which is now obsolete.\n\nSecurity interests at common law are either \"possessory\" or \"nonpossessory\", depending upon whether the secured party actually needs to take possession of the collateral. Alternatively, they arise \"by agreement\" between the parties (usually by executing a security agreement), or \"by operation of law\".\n\nThe evolution of the law of nonpossessory security interests in personal property has been particularly convoluted and messy. Under the rule of \"Twyne's Case\" (1601) transferring an interest in personal property without also immediately transferring possession was consistently regarded as a fraudulent conveyance. Over two hundred years would pass before such security interests were recognized as legitimate.\n\nThe following discussion of the types of security interest principally concerns English law. English law on security interests has been followed in most common law countries, and most common law countries have similar property statutes regulating the common law rules.\n\nSecurity interests may be taken on any type of property. The law divides property into two classes: personal property and real property. Real property is the land, the buildings affixed to it and the rights that go with the land. Personal property is defined as any property other than real property.\n\nA legal mortgage arises when the assets are conveyed to the secured party as security for the obligations, but subject to a right to have the assets reconveyed when the obligations are performed. This right is referred to as the \"equity of redemption\". The law has historically taken a dim view of provisions which might impede this right to have the assets reconveyed (referred to as being a \"clog\" on the equity of redemption); although the position has become more relaxed in recent years in relation to sophisticated financial transactions.\n\nReferences to \"true\" legal mortgages mean mortgages by the traditional common law method of transfer subject to a proviso in this manner, and references are usually made in contradistinction to either equitable mortgages or statutory mortgages. True legal mortgages are relatively rare in modern commerce, outside of occasionally with respect to shares in companies. In England, true legal mortgages of land have been abolished in favour of statutory mortgages.\n\nTo complete a legal mortgage it is normally necessary that title to the assets is conveyed into the name of the secured party such that the secured party (or its nominee) becomes the legal titleholder to the asset. If a legal mortgage is not completed in this manner it will normally take effect as an equitable mortgage. Because of the requirement to transfer title, it is not possible to take a legal mortgage over future property, or to take more than one legal mortgage over the same assets. However, mortgages (legal and equitable) are nonpossessory security interests. Normally the party granting the mortgage (the \"mortgagor\") will remain in possession of the mortgaged asset.\n\nThe holder of a legal mortgage has three primary remedies in the event that there is a default on the secured obligations:\n\n\nThe holder of a mortgage can also usually sue upon the covenant to pay which appears in most mortgage instruments. There are a range of other remedies available to the holder of a mortgage, but they relate predominantly to land, and accordingly have been superseded by statute, and they are rarely exercised in practice in relation to other assets. The beneficiary of a mortgage (the \"mortgagee\") is entitled to pursue all of its remedies concurrently or consecutively.\n\nForeclosure is rarely exercised as a remedy. To execute foreclosure, the secured party needs to petition the court, and the order is made in two stages (\"nisi\" and \"absolute\"), making the process slow and cumbersome. Courts are historically reluctant to grant orders for foreclosure, and will often instead order a judicial sale. If the asset is worth more than the secured obligations, the secured party will normally have to account for the surplus. Even if a court makes a decree \"absolute\" and orders foreclosure, the court retains an absolute discretion to reopen the foreclosure after the making of the order, although this would not affect the title of any third party purchaser.\n\nThe holder of a legal mortgage also has a power of sale over the assets. Every mortgage contains an implied power of sale. This implied power exists even if the mortgage is not under seal. All mortgages which are made by way of deed also ordinarily contain a power of sale implied by statute, but the exercise of the statutory power is limited by the terms of the statute. Neither implied power of sale requires a court order, although the court can usually also order a judicial sale. The secured party has a duty to get the best price reasonably obtainable, however, this does not require the sale to be conducted in any particular fashion (i.e. by auction or sealed bids). What the best price reasonably obtainable will be will depend upon the market available for the assets and related considerations. The sale must be a true sale - a mortgagee cannot sell to himself, either alone or with others, even for fair value; such a sale may be restrained or set aside or ignored. However, if the court orders a sale pursuant to statute, the mortgagee may be expressly permitted to buy.\n\nThe third remedy is to appoint a receiver. Technically the right to appoint a receiver can arise two different ways - under the terms of the mortgage instrument, and (where the mortgage instrument is executed as a deed) by statute.\n\nIf the mortgagee takes possession then under the common law they owe strict duties to the mortgagor to safeguard the value of the property (although the terms of the mortgage instrument will usually limit this obligation). However, the common law rules relate principally to physical property, and there is a shortage of authority as to how they might apply to taking \"possession\" of rights, such as shares. Nonetheless, a mortgagee is well advised to remain respectful of their duty to preserve the value of the mortgaged property both for their own interests and under their potential liability to the mortgagor.\n\nAn equitable mortgage can arise in two different ways – either as a legal mortgage which was never perfected by conveying the underlying assets, or by specifically creating a mortgage as an equitable mortgage. A mortgage over equitable rights (such as a beneficiary's interests under a trust) will necessarily exist in equity only in any event.\n\nUnder the laws of some jurisdictions, a mere deposit of title documents can give rise to an equitable mortgage. With respect to land this has now been abolished in England, although in many jurisdictions company shares can still be mortgaged by deposit of share certificates in this manner.\n\nGenerally speaking, an equitable mortgage has the same effect as a perfected legal mortgage except in two respects. Firstly, being an equitable right, it will be extinguished by a bona fide purchaser for value who did not have notice of the mortgage. Secondly, because the legal title to the mortgaged property is not actually vested in the secured party, it means that a necessary additional step is imposed in relation to the exercise of remedies such as foreclosure.\n\nMany jurisdictions permit specific assets to be mortgaged without transferring title to the assets to the mortgagee. Principally, statutory mortgages relate to land, registered aircraft and registered ships. Generally speaking, the mortgagee will have the same rights as they would have had under a traditional true legal mortgage, but the manner of enforcement is usually regulated by the statute.\n\nA fixed equitable charge confers a right on the secured party to look to (or appropriate) a particular asset in the event of the debtor's default, which is enforceable by either power of sale or appointment of a receiver. It is probably the most common form of security taken over assets. Technically, a charge (or a \"mere\" charge) cannot include the power to enforce without judicial intervention, as it does not include the transfer of a proprietary interest in the charged asset. If a charge includes this right (such as private sale by a receiver), it is really an equitable mortgage (sometimes called charge by way of mortgage). Since little turns on this distinction, the term \"charge\" is often used to include an equitable mortgage.\n\nAn equitable charge is also a nonpossessory form of security, and the beneficiary of the charge (the \"chargee\") does not need to retain possession of the charged property.\n\nWhere security equivalent to a charge is given by a natural person (as opposed to a corporate entity) it is usually expressed to be a bill of sale, and is regulated under applicable bills of sale legislation. Difficulties with the Bills of Sale Acts in Ireland, England and Wales have made it virtually impossible for individuals to create floating charges.\n\nFloating charges are similar in effect to fixed equitable charges once they crystallise (usually upon the commencement of liquidation proceedings against the chargor), but prior to that they \"float\" and do not attach to any of the chargor's assets, and the chargor remains free to deal with or dispose of them. The U.S. equivalent is the floating lien, which unlike the floating charge, can be given by any kind of debtor, not just corporate entities.\n\nA pledge (also sometimes called a pawn) is a form of possessory security, and accordingly, the assets which are being pledged need to be physically delivered to the beneficiary of the pledge (the \"pledgee\"). Pledges are in commercial contexts used in trading companies (especially, physically, commodity trading), and are still used by pawnbrokers, which, contrary to their old world image, remain a regulated credit industry.\n\nThe pledgee has a common law power of sale in the event of a default on the secured obligations which arises if the secured obligations are not satisfied by the agreed time (or, in default of agreement, within a reasonable period of time). If the power of sale is exercised, then the holder of the pledge must account to the pledgor for any surplus after payment of the secured obligations.\n\nA pledge does not confer a right to appoint a receiver or foreclose. If the holder of pledge sells or disposes of the pledged assets when not entitled to do so, they may be liable in conversion to the pledgor.\n\nThe major flaw with the pledge is that it requires physical possession by the pledgee, which traps a business pledgor in a paradox. Unless the pledgee literally occupies the same premises as the pledger, the collateral once transferred is unavailable for the pledgor to operate its business and generate income to repay the pledgee. Lawyers in many jurisdictions tried to get around this problem with creative devices like conditional sales and trust receipts (see below) with varying results.\n\nA legal lien, in many common law systems, includes a right to retain physical possession of tangible assets as security for the underlying obligations. In some jurisdictions it is a form of possessory security, and possession of the assets must be transferred to (and maintained by) the secured party. In the case of a possessory lien, the right is purely passive. In the case of a possessory lien, the secured party (the \"lienor\") has no right to sell the assets - merely a right to refuse to return them until paid. In the United States, a lien can be a nonpossessory security interest.\n\nMany legal liens arise as a matter of law (by common law or by statute). It is possible, however, to create a legal lien by contract. The courts have confirmed that it is also possible to give the secured party a power of sale in such a contract, but case law on such a power is limited and it is difficult to know what limitations and duties would be imposed on the exercise of such a power.\n\nEquitable liens are slightly amorphous forms of security interest that arise only by operation of law in certain circumstances. Academically it has been noted that there seems to be no real unifying principle behind the circumstances that give rise to them.\n\nAn equitable lien takes effect essentially as an equitable charge, and arises only in specified situations, (e.g. an unpaid vendor's lien in relation to property is an equitable lien; a maritime lien is sometimes thought to be an equitable lien). It is sometimes argued that where the constitutional documents of a company provide that the company has a lien over its own shares, this provision takes effect as an equitable lien, and if that analysis is correct, then it is probably the one exception to the rule that equitable liens arise by operation of law rather than by agreement.\n\nHypothecation, or \"trust receipts\" are relatively uncommon forms of security interest whereby the underlying assets are pledged, not by delivery of the assets as in a conventional pledge, but by delivery of a document or other evidence of title. Hypothecation is usually seen in relation to bottomry (cf. bills of lading), whereby the bill of lading is endorsed by the secured party, who, unless the security is redeemed, can claim the property by delivery of the bill.\n\nAnother form of security interest which flourished in the United States in the late 19th century and the first half of the 20th century was the conditional sale, the ancestor of what U.S. lawyers now call the purchase money security interest (PMSI). It was popular in that era among creditors for two reasons. First, most U.S. states had imposed numerous onerous restrictions upon chattel mortgages in order to protect debtors (at a time debtor's prisons were being abolished but were still within the memory of most persons then living), and second, all U.S. states in that era also had strict anti-usury laws. Conditional sales, at least initially, were seen to be free of both of those problems.\n\nUnder pressure from creditors and their lawyers, U.S. courts gradually developed a highly technical distinction between an absolute, unconditional sale, in which the seller simply became another unsecured creditor of the buyer, and a conditional sale, in which the sale of the goods was made dependent upon some condition (such as payment of the price in installments). Thus, the buyer's breach of a material condition, in turn, made it possible for the seller to declare the contract had ended, that the \"status quo ante\" should be restored, and to repossess the goods accordingly. Since the buyer had breached, he had forfeited his right to reimbursement of any portion of the price already paid, or in the alternative, those payments could be regarded as a crude form of rent for the use of the goods.\n\nAs conditional sales became popular for financing industrial equipment and consumer goods, U.S. state legislatures began to regulate them as well during the early 20th century, with the result that they soon became almost as complex as the older forms of security interests which they had been used to evade.\n\nSome obligations are backed only by a security interest against specific designated property, and liability for repayment of the debt is limited to the property itself, with no further claim against the obligor. These are referred to as \"nonrecourse obligations\".\n\nOther obligations (i.e., recourse obligations) are backed by the full credit of the borrower. If the borrower defaults, then the creditor can force the obligor into bankruptcy and the creditors will divide all assets of the obligor.\n\nDepending on the relative credit of the obligor, the quality of the asset, and the availability of a structure to separate the obligations of the asset from the obligations of the obligor, the interest rate charged on one may be higher or lower than the other.\n\nPerfection of security interests means different things to lawyers in different jurisdictions.\n\nThe second definition is becoming more frequently used commercially, and arguably is to be preferred, as the traditional English legal usage has little purpose except in relation to the comparatively rare true legal mortgage (very few other security interests require additional steps to attach to the asset. Security interests frequently require some form of registration to be enforceable in connection with the chargor's insolvency).\n\nThere are a number of other arrangements which parties can put in place which have the effect of conferring security in a commercial sense, but do not actually create a proprietary security interest in the assets. For example, it is possible to grant a power of attorney or conditional option in favour of the secured party relating to the subject matter, or to utilise a retention of title arrangement, or execute undated transfer instruments. Whilst these techniques may provide protection for the secured party, they do not confer a proprietary interest in the assets which the arrangements relate to, and their effectiveness may be limited if the debtor goes into bankruptcy.\n\nIt is also possible to replicate the effect of security by making an outright transfer of the asset, with a provision that the asset is re-transferred once the secured obligations are repaid. In some jurisdictions, these arrangements may be recharacterised as the grant of a mortgage, but most jurisdictions tend to allow the parties freedom to characterise their transactions as they see fit. Common examples of this are financings using a stock loan or repo agreement to collateralise the cash advance, and title transfer arrangements (for example, under the \"Transfer\" form English Law credit support annex to an ISDA Master Agreement (as distinguished from the other forms of CSA, which grant security)).\n\nThe laws relating to taking and enforcing security vary by country, and depend on whether it derives from common law or civil law.\n\nIn the European Union, the \"Financial Collateral Arrangements Directive\" provides for \"appropriation\" as a remedy for securing financial collateral. In the United Kingdom, this has been introduced under the \"Financial Collateral Arrangements (No.2) Regulations 2003\" where the assets subject to the mortgage are \"financial collateral\" and the mortgage instrument provides that the regulations apply. Appropriation is a means whereby the mortgagee can take title to the assets, but must account to the mortgagor for their fair market value (which must be specified in the mortgage instrument), but without the need to obtain any court order. In 2009, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council ruled that as a matter of English law:\n\n\nThe principles under which equitable relief may be sought, where appropriation has been exercised under English law, were expressed in 2013 in \"Cukurova Finance International Ltd v Alfa Telecom Turkey Ltd\".\n\nIn the late 1940s, the United States (U.S.) legal community arrived at a consensus that the traditional common law distinctions were obsolete and served no useful purpose. They tended to generate too much unnecessary litigation about whether the creditor had selected the correct type of security interest. There was a growing recognition that the different types of security interests had developed only because on the one hand, many judges thought there was something inherently wrong with allowing a person, either out of desperation or foolishness, to summarily encumber all his or her personal property as collateral for a loan, but on the other, debtors and creditors would attempt to reach a desired result by any means necessary, even if that meant resorting to creating multiple security interests to cover different types of personal property. There was also the problem of the above-mentioned early English cases that regarded such security interests as fraudulent conveyances and failed to recognize that they had legitimate uses in a modern industrial economy. Therefore, because the very history of security interests demonstrated that judicial resistance to enforcing broad security interests \"would not stop\" debtors from trying to give them as inducement to creditors to extend financing, and that they were socially useful under the proper circumstances, the better choice was to make the law of security interests as clear and simple as possible.\n\nThe result was Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), which regulates security interests in \"personal property\" (as opposed to real property) and establishes a unified concept of a \"security interest\" as a right in a debtor's property that secures payment or performance of an obligation.\n\nArticle 9 was subsequently enacted, although not entirely without variations, by the 50 states, District of Columbia, and most territories.\n\nUnder Article 9, a security interest is created by a security agreement, under which the debtor grants a security interest in the debtor's property as collateral for a loan or other obligation.\n\nA security interest grants the holder a right to take a remedial action with respect to the property, upon occurrence of certain events, such as the non-payment of a loan. The creditor may take possession of such property in satisfaction of the underlying obligation. The holder will sell such property at a public auction or through a private sale, and apply the proceeds to satisfy the underlying obligation. If the proceeds exceed the amount of the underlying obligation, the debtor is entitled to the excess. If the proceeds fall short, the holder of the security interest is entitled to a deficiency judgment whereby the holder can institute additional legal proceedings to recover the full amount unless it is a non-recourse debt like many mortgage loans in the United States.\n\nIn the U.S. the term \"security interest\" is often used interchangeably with \"lien\". However, the term \"lien\" is more often associated with the collateral of real property than with of personal property.\n\nA security interest is typically granted by a \"security agreement\". The security interest is established with respect to the property, if the debtor has an ownership interest in the property and the holder of the security interest conferred value to the debtor, such as giving a loan.\n\nThe holder may \"perfect\" the security interest to put third parties on notice thereof. Perfection is typically achieved by filing a financing statement with government, often the secretary of state located at a jurisdiction where a corporate debtor is incorporated. Perfection can also be obtained by possession of the collateral, if the collateral is tangible property.\n\nAbsent perfection, the holder of the security interest may have difficulty enforcing his rights in the collateral with regard to third parties, including a trustee in bankruptcy and other creditors who claim a security interest in the same collateral.\n\nIf the debtor defaults (and does not file for bankruptcy), the UCC offers the creditor the choice of either suing the debtor in court or conducting a disposition by either public or private sale. UCC dispositions are designed to be held by private parties without any judicial involvement, although the debtor and other secured creditors of the debtor have the right to sue the creditor conducting the disposition if it is not conducted in a \"commercially reasonable\" fashion to maximize proceeds from the sale of the collateral.\n\nArticle 9 is limited in scope to personal property and fixtures (i.e., personal property attached to real property). Security interests in real property continue to be governed by non-uniform laws (in the form of statutory law or case law or both) which vary dramatically from state to state. In a slight majority of states, the deed of trust is the primary instrument for taking a security interest in real property, while the mortgage is used in the remainder.\n\nAs noted above, UCC Article 9's core insight was that the traditional distinctions were hopelessly obsolete, which was highly influential elsewhere and inspired the enactment of the \"Personal Property Security Acts\" throughout Canada during the 1990s. Although Ontario was the first province to enact such a law in 1990, all other Canadian provinces and territories followed the example set by Saskatchewan's PPSA enacted in 1993. The PPSAs are generally similar to UCC Article 9. However, they differ substantially on several issues such as the treatment of rental property, and the effectiveness of a financing statement after a debtor changes its name. Quebec has not enacted a PPSA but the sections of the 1994 Quebec Civil Code governing hypothecs were clearly influenced by the PPSAs and Article 9, and the province has made further amendments to the Civil Code to make possible more types of transactions that are already available in Article 9 jurisdictions. \n\nIn turn, international development experts recognized in the mid-1990s that reform of the law of security interests was a major reason for the prosperity of both Canada and United States, in that it had enabled their businesses to finance growth through forms of secured lending which simply did not exist elsewhere. The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and other international lenders began to encourage other countries to follow Canada's example as part of the structural adjustment process (a consultation process often required as a condition of their loans). The Canadian PPSAs were subsequently followed by the New Zealand Personal Property Securities Act 1999, the Vanuatu Personal Property Securities Act 2008, the Australia Personal Property Securities Act 2009, the Papua New Guinea Personal Property Security Act 2012, the Jersey Security Interests Law 2012 (covering intangible personal property only), the Samoa Personal Property Securities Act 2013, and the Jamaica Security Interests in Personal Property Act 2013. \n\nThe Canadian, New Zealand and Australian acts all followed the UCC's pragmatic \"function over form\" approach and borrowed extensive portions of Article 9's terminology and framework. However, New Zealand, as a unitary state, only needed to enact one act for the whole country and was able to create a single nationwide \"register\" for security interests. While the U.S. enacted Article 9 at the state level and Canada enacted its PPSAs at the provincial level, Australia, another common law federation, deliberately implemented its new security interest law at the federal level in order to supersede over 70 state laws and create a national register similar to New Zealand's.\n\nThe first major attempt to bring the benefits of UCC Article 9 to civil law jurisdictions was launched by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 1992, which resulted in the EBRD Model Law for Secured Transactions in 1994. However, the EBRD Model Law's approach to the entire subject differed radically from UCC Article 9, and it was also quite limited. For example, it did not have provisions for purchase money security interests. Nearly all Central and Eastern European countries undertook reform of their secured transactions laws in the 1990s and 2000s, although most of them either came up with \"ad hoc\" indigenous solutions or followed the EBRD Model Law to some extent. Only Albania, Kosovo, and Montenegro attempted to closely follow the UCC Article 9 approach. \n\nIn 2002, the Organization of American States promulgated the Model Inter-American Law on Secured Transactions, in response to a rapidly growing body of empirical evidence that the chronic failure of Latin America's legal systems to support modern asset-based financing is a primary reason for the region's economic instability. The OAS Model Law attempted to import many of the best parts of UCC Article 9 into the Latin American civil law sphere, but with extensive revisions for that region's unique problems. The OAS Model Law has been enacted to some extent in several countries, including Mexico (2000, 2003, and 2010), Peru (2006), Guatemala (2007), and Honduras (2009). \n\nTo date, only Honduras has been able to fully enact and actually implement the OAS Model Law in a manner faithful to the spirit of UCC Article 9, in the sense of unifying security interests and making them easily visible on a public registry. At the launch of the Pathways to Prosperity in the Americas initiative in San Jose, Costa Rica on March 4, 2010, then-U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stressed that \"the United States is committed to working with our Pathways partners to modernize laws that govern lending so that small and medium size businesses can use assets other than real estate as collateral for loans,\" and generously praised Honduras for its aggressive reform efforts. \n\nSeparately, after the issue of secured transactions reform was recommended to the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law in 2000 by the Secretary-General, UNCITRAL eventually prepared a Legislative Guide on Secured Transactions as a recommendation to all countries, which ended up structured as an compromise between \"all\" major legal systems. Therefore, although it was obviously inspired by UCC Article 9, the Legislative Guide did not closely conform to Article 9's terminology or structure. The Legislative Guide uses different terminology for even the most basic concepts. For example, it uses the term \"security right\" in lieu of \"security interest\". On December 11, 2008, the Guide was subsequently endorsed by the 67th plenary meeting of the United Nations General Assembly in Resolution 63/121, which took effect January 15, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29772915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29772915", "title": "Small Business Saturday", "text": "Small Business Saturday\n\nSmall Business Saturday is an American shopping holiday held during the Saturday after US Thanksgiving during one of the busiest shopping periods of the year. This Saturday is always the last one in November, so falls between November 24 and November 30.\n\nFirst observed in the United States on November 27, 2010, it is a counterpart to Black Friday and Cyber Monday, which feature big box retail and e-commerce stores respectively. By contrast, Small Business Saturday encourages holiday shoppers to patronize brick and mortar businesses that are small and local. \"Small Business Saturday\" is a registered trademark of American Express.\n\nThe first event was sponsored by American Express, in partnership with the non-profit National Trust for Historic Preservation, Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino, and Roslindale Village Main Street. In 2010, the holiday was promoted by American Express via a nationwide radio and television advertising campaign. That year Amex bought advertising inventory on Facebook, which it in turn gave to its small merchant account holders, and also gave rebates to new customers to promote the event.\n\nAmerican Express publicized the initiative using social media, advertising, and public relations. Many local politicians and small business groups in the United States issued proclamations concerning the campaign, which generated more than one million Facebook \"like\" registrations and nearly 30,000 tweets under the Twitter hashtags #smallbusinesssaturday and #smallbizsaturday.\n\nThe Twitter hashtag #SmallBusinessSaturday has existed since early 2010 and was used to promote small businesses on any Saturday (not solely that Saturday between Black Friday and Cyber Monday). The hashtag is used in a manner similar to #FollowFriday to highlight favorite local businesses. Additionally, some small business owners have run marketing specials on the November Small Business Saturday to help capitalize on the boost in foot or online traffic, as most customers in this time period are actively shopping for the holidays.\n\nSmall Business Saturday UK began in the United Kingdom in 2013 after the success of Small Business Saturday in the United States of America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37292699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37292699", "title": "Split-off point", "text": "Split-off point\n\nIn the context of production, a split-off point is the point at which joint products appear in the production process.\n\nExample:\n\nWhen the Entity is carrying on the business with two subsidiaries,one subsidiary is making huge profits and another subsidiary making huge losses...while preparing the financial statements of the company, the company showing no profit and no loss,and these will not attract the investors.The company got the idea to form independent companies so that it can be easily measurable and it can decide the future of the companies and where developments required for the companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "437876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437876", "title": "Stelios Haji-Ioannou", "text": "Stelios Haji-Ioannou\n\nSir Stelios Haji-Ioannou (; born 14 February 1967) is a British Cypriot entrepreneur. He is the scion of a wealthy ship owning family, but is best known for founding the low-cost airline easyJet and the Stelmar shipping line with start-up funds provided by his father, Loucas Haji-Ioannou. easyJet's foundation in 1995 marked the beginning of a series of ventures marketed under the \"easy\" brand, managed by easyGroup and chaired by Haji-Ioannou.\n\nStelios Haji-Ioannou is the second of three children by Loucas and Nedi Haji-Ioannou. He was born in Athens on 14 February 1967. He has an elder brother, Polys, and a younger sister, Clelia. His father's family originates from the village of Pedoulas high in the Troodos Mountains of Cyprus, while his mother is from the Potsos family of Laneia, a village at the foot of the mountains. After his secondary education in Athens, he studied Economics at the London School of Economics, graduating with a BSc in 1987. He went on to obtain an MSc in Shipping, Trade & Finance from Cass Business School. He was later awarded four honorary doctorates from Liverpool John Moores University, Cass Business School, Newcastle Business School, and Cranfield University.\n\nA self-labelled \"serial entrepreneur\", Stelios started working in 1988 for his father's already successful shipping business, Troodos Shipping Co Ltd. At 25, Stelios received £30 million from his father, that he used to set up his own shipping company, Stelmar Shipping. Haji-Ioannou floated the company on the NYSE in 2001. In 2005, Stelmar Shipping was sold to the OSG Group for approximately $1.3 billion.\n\nIn April 1991, a Troodos-owned VLCC oil tanker suffered a disaster that resulted in six deaths and spilt about 50,000 tons of crude oil into the sea - arguably the Mediterranean's worst-ever ecological disaster. The tanker, M/T \"Haven\", was an elderly vessel, formerly the \"Amoco Haven\", sister ship of the ill-starred Amoco Cadiz that had foundered in 1978. Haji-Ioannou was accused of poor maintenance and charged, in Italy, with manslaughter and also intimidating and attempting to bribe witnesses. Haji-Ioannou blamed the accident on an error by one of the surviving crew members.\n\nHe and his father were acquitted by the jury. Subsequent civil demands for compensation were also dismissed by the courts.\n\nHaji-Ioannou started easyJet in 1995 when he was 28, running a service between Luton and Scotland. In 2000, easyJet PLC was partially floated on the London Stock Exchange. He and his family remain its largest single shareholders (34%) in the airline, capitalized at £6.8bn as of 20/08/15.\n\nHaji-Ioannou conducts business via his private investment vehicle, the easyGroup, which owns the 'easy' brand and licenses it to the various 'easy'-branded ventures, including the airline. Haji-Ioannou continues to extend his business interests, mainly in the field of travel and leisure by encouraging entrepreneurs to adopt the \"easy\" brand for their companies.\n\neasyJet PLC is one of Europe's largest airlines with a fleet of over 240 jets (+150 on order) carrying over 70m passengers annually.\n\nOther travel/leisure-related businesses include:\n\nIn June 2006, Haji-Ioannou received a knighthood from HM Queen Elizabeth II for \"services to entrepreneurship\".\n\nIn September 2011 it was reported that Haji-Ioannou was working on Fastjet, a new low-cost airline serving routes within Africa, as part of a joint venture with Lonrho plc. The airline started operations on 29 November 2012 with Airbus A319 aircraft.\n\nIn 2009, Haji-Ioannou brought proceedings in London's High Court over Ryanair adverts which appeared in \"The Guardian\", the \"Daily Telegraph\" and on Ryanair's website in January and February. The adverts featured a picture of Haji-Ioannou in the style of Pinocchio and referred to him as \"easyJet's Mr Late Again\". The case was eventually settled out of court, with Haji-Ioannou receiving an official apology from the airline and the sum of £50,100, which Haji-Ioannou announced he would donate to his philanthropic foundation.\n\nIn 2010, Haji-Ioannou quit the board of EasyJet, in order to attempt to force the management of the company to abort their expansion plans.\n\nIn an interview with \"Management Today\", he said: 'EasyJet is seen as a huge success, which I'm happy about, because I own the brand. But easyJet is a publicly listed company. The share price has gone up and down as it's got bigger and things have happened – but overall, really it's gone sideways.'\n\nHe then went on to say: 'Basically, it's created no shareholder value for 10 years.'\n\nIn 2013, Stelios said he had become \"increasingly concerned\" at easyJet's expansion plans. He announced that he sold 200,000 easyJet shares in protest against plans to buy more planes, while his siblings have done the same with their shares.\n\nHaji-Ioannou has been a Monaco resident since his family left Athens when he was a teenager.\n\nHaji-Ioannou was a member of the New Enterprise Council, a group set up to advise the Conservative Party on business policy. He stated at the time that this appointment did not reflect his political affiliations, adding \"I agreed to be included in the group of entrepreneurs because I was assured it will be non-partisan. [There is] not much difference between Left and Right any more.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2010, in a letter to the \"Daily Telegraph\", Haji-Ioannou joined 23 other UK business leaders, including Marks & Spencer's Stuart Rose and Next's Simon Wolfson, criticising the Labour government's plans to raise National Insurance contribution rates.\n\nThe character of Omar Baba in the BBC TV comedy \"Come Fly With Me\" is reportedly based on Haji-Ioannou.\n\nHis charitable foundation, the Stelios Philanthropic Foundation, supports education, as well as entrepreneurial and environmental initiatives through the provision of funding and advice in the UK, Greece and Cyprus.It also sponsors annual awards with cash prizes to entrepreneurs in the UK, Greece and Cyprus.\n\nThe Foundation finances ten undergraduate scholarships annually for students taking a three-year course at his alma mater, the London School of Economics and Political Science, and a further ten postgraduate awards at City University's Cass Business School (1-year course). It also gives a £50,000 cash prize to the winner of the Disabled Entrepreneur in the UK Award, run in conjunction with Leonard Cheshire Disability. Similar prizes are awarded for enterprises in Cyprus that help foster inter-communal relationships on the island and Greece where the Foundation hosts an award for young entrepreneurs.\n\nMost recently the Foundation has joined the relief effort aimed at helping those in Greece and Cyprus worst affected by the current economic downturn. Its \"Food from the Heart\" initiative, based in Limassol, hands out free lunchtime snacks to registered recipients in Nicosia, Limassol and Athens. Further outlets to help cope with the refugees landing on Aegean islands are in the planning stage. (www.stelios.com)\n\nHe was among the benefactors of the \"Make a WISH\" charity event held in Monaco - June 2015 - organized by the Embassy of the Sovereign Order of Malta to the Republic of Serbia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4094802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4094802", "title": "Telecommunications Industry Association", "text": "Telecommunications Industry Association\n\nThe Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) is accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) to develop voluntary, consensus-based industry standards for a wide variety of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) products, and currently represents nearly 400 companies. TIA's Standards and Technology Department operates twelve engineering committees, which develop guidelines for private radio equipment, cellular towers, data terminals, satellites, telephone terminal equipment, accessibility, VoIP devices, structured cabling, data centers, mobile device communications, multimedia multicast, vehicular telematics, healthcare ICT, machine to machine communications, and smart utility networks. \n\nOverall, more than 500 active participants, communications equipment manufacturers, service providers, government agencies, academic institutions, and end-users are engaged in TIA's standards setting process. To ensure that these standards become incorporated globally, TIA is also engaged in the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).\n\nThe Telecommunications Industry Assoc's most widely adopted standards include:\n\nTIA encourages engineers who represent the manufacturers and/or users of network equipment technology products and services (from both the public and private sectors), to become engaged in TIA's engineering committees, by voting and submitting technical contributions for inclusion in future standards.\n\nTIA is a participating standards organization of the ITU-T Global Standards Collaboration (GSC) initiative. The GSC has created a Machine-to-Machine Standardization Task Force (MSTF) to foster industry collaboration on standards across different vertical markets, such as finance, e-health, connected vehicles, and utilities.\n\nTIA supported the E-LABEL Act (H.R. 5161; 113th Congress), a bill that would direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to allow manufacturers of electronic devices with a screen to display information required by the agency digitally on the screen rather than on a label affixed to the device. Grant Seiffert argued that \"by granting device manufacturers the ability to use e-labels, the legislation eases the technical and logistical burdens on manufactures and improves consumer access to important device information.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56731043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56731043", "title": "Tim Calkins (professor)", "text": "Tim Calkins (professor)\n\nTim Calkins (born July 27, 1965) is an author, consultant and clinical professor of Marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management specializing in topics including Marketing Strategy, Biomedical Marketing, and branding.\n\nTim Calkins was born in Buffalo, New York in 1965 to father Evan Calkins and mother Virginia Brady who were married on Sept. 9, 1946 and were both doctors. He has eight siblings, Sally, Stephen, Lucy, Joan, Benjamin, Hugh, Ellen, and Geoffrey.\n\nCalkins graduated from Hamburg High School, Hamburg, New York in 1983 where he had been on the Honor Roll and he was awarded the Regents Scholarship. Subsequently, he received his Bachelor's Degree from Yale University in 1987 and his Master of Business Administration from Harvard University in 1991.\n\nHe currently lives in Chicago, Illinois with his wife Carol Saltoun and his three children.\n\nCalkins began his career as a Research Associate at Booz Allen and Hamilton in New York, New York in 1987. From there he moved to the position of a Marketing Executive at Kraft Foods in Glenview, Illinois from 1991 to 2002 where he managed leading brands including A.1. Steak Sauce, Kraft BBQ sauce, Miracle Whip and Taco Bell Home Originals.\n\nIn 1998, Calkins took a position of Professor of Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management as Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing. He was subsequently made Clinical Associate Professor of Marketing in 2002 and full Clinical Professor of Marketing in 2006. There he has earned several honors and awards including \"Executive MBA Program Outstanding Teaching Award\", \"Sidney J. Levy Teaching Award\", \"Faculty Impact Award\", and \"L. G. Lavengood Outstanding Professor of the Year Award\". He was also chosen for Poets & Quants \"Our Favorite MBA Professors of 2016\".\n\nHe is the managing director of Class 5 Consulting where he provides consultation on projects and problems for clients including Eli Lilly, Hewlett Packard, Pfizer, Teva, AB InBev, Novartis, and the American Dental Association.\n\nTim Calkins is the author of the books \"Breakthrough Marketing Plans\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2008 and 2012) and \"Defending Your Brand: How Smart Companies Use Defensive Strategy to Deal with Competitive Attacks\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2012). \"Defending Your Brand\" was the winner of the Expert Marketer Magazine’s Marketing Book of the Year in 2013. He was also the co-editor of \"Kellogg on Branding\" (John Wiley & Sons, 2005).\n\nCalkins is the founder of the Kellogg School Super Bowl Advertising Review which has reviewed Super Bowl advertisements since 2005. He has also authored articles on the importance of Super Bowl advertising from the point of view of Marketing.\n\nHe has published more than a dozen Kellogg case studies including Crestor, MedImmune: FluMist Introduction and Genzyme: the Synvisc-One Investment Decision as well as articles in industry journals. He is also contributor and author for many marketing and news outlets including Business Insider, Huffington Post , Financial Times, and The New York Times . His blog, Strong Brands, was featured on Inc.com as one of \"Six Blogs That Can Teach You More Than an MBA\".\n\nStrong Brands - Tim Calkins' Blog\n"}
{"id": "57160962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57160962", "title": "Tope Fasua", "text": "Tope Fasua\n\nTope Kolade Fasua (born September 11, 1971) is a Nigerian businessman, economist and writer. He is the founder and CEO of Global Analytics Consulting Limited, an international consulting firm with its headquarters in Abuja, Nigeria. As a political reformer, he founded the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) and got elected since February 2018, to serve as the National Chairman of the Party.\nFasua has authored numerous columns on newspapers and six books.\n\nFasua was born and raised in Lagos. For his secondary school education, he attended Army Comprehensive High School in his hometown Akure in 1985 before he went further to study economics in Ondo State University, where he successfully graduated and received award for the best overall result in the department, faculty and entire school in 1991. In 1996, Fasua became a qualified accountant after attending the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria to obtain ACA(Associate Chartered Accountant). In between Fasua's movement from his long banking practice into starting his Consulting Firm, he attended London Metropolitan University to gain master's degree in Financial Markets and Derivatives in which he got Distinction in 2006. Harvard Business School, University of Groningen, Lonestar Academy, Texas are some the academic institutions where Fasua has attended for executive programs. Currently, he is a fellow Academic with his Ph.D in Public Policy and Administration, in view at Walden University.\n\nAfter completing his bachelor's degree (Bsc. Economics 1991), Fasua started as a trainee banking officer in the Operations' Unit at Citizens Bank Limited, Victoria Island Lagos, he however spent over four years there before moving on to Standard Trust Bank Limited where he served as a manager. He also worked at Equatorial Trust Bank Limited where at first, he acted as the senior manager before he was promoted to the rank of the Regional Director in Abuja from 2001 to 2005.\n\nAs a businessman, he started his Consulting firm, Global Analytics Consulting Limited, serving as the group CEO from September 2006 till date. \n\nFasua being a prolific writer has authored fours books: Crushed, Things to Do Before Your Career Disappears, The Race for Capital, and A Change Will Come. Also featuring as a Policy and Public Affairs Analyst, he has been consistent in contributing articles on global and national economic matters, he is renowned columnist on various leading Nigerian Newspapers, and keeps featuring as an analyst on various TV and Radio programs.\n\nAt one point, he claimed to have written over 1000 articles.\n\nOn the 16th of December, 2016, Tope Fasua led a group of Nigerians to form a political party, Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), and on 14th of December, 2017, the party was finally announced a registered political party by INEC. ANRP, under him has grown its membership base to about 53000, as reported on the website on July 12, 2018.\n\nAt the ANRP National Executive Committee Meeting on the 17th of May, 2018, Tope Fasua announced his intention to join the race, to seek nomination to run for Presidency in the forthcoming 2019 General Elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "986625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986625", "title": "Total shareholder return", "text": "Total shareholder return\n\nTotal shareholder return (TSR) (or simply total return) is a measure of the performance of different companies' stocks and shares over time. It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder expressed as an annualized percentage. It is calculated by the growth in capital from purchasing a share in the company assuming that the dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This growth is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual growth rate.\n\nThe main benefit of TSR is that it allows the performance of shares to be compared even though some of the shares may have a high growth and low dividends and others may have low growth and high dividends.\n\nMost stock market indices only use the growth of the prices of the companies making up the index. However, when they use TSR for the companies it is called a total return index or accumulation index. For example, corresponding to the S&P 500 index calculated by Standard and Poor's, there is the S&P 500 TR index.\n\nIn the technology sector, a study has found that regardless of a company's size, the more diverse the portfolio, the more difficult it is to generate high TSR.\n\nIn practice TSR is difficult to calculate since it involves knowing the price of the shares at the time the dividends are paid. However, as an approximation over one year it can be calculated as follows with:\nformula_1 = share price at beginning of year,\nformula_2 = share price at end of year,\n\"Dividends\" = dividends paid over year and\n\n\"TSR\" = total shareholder return, TSR is computed as\n\nformula_3\n"}
{"id": "46519540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46519540", "title": "Touker Suleyman", "text": "Touker Suleyman\n\nTouker Suleyman (born Türker Süleyman; 4 August 1953) is a multi-millionaire Turkish Cypriot British business magnate fashion retail entrepreneur and investor. In 2001, his company Low Profile Group purchased UK shirt maker Hawes & Curtis, and in 2008 he purchased UK fashion label Ghost. More recently, he has invested in a number of start-up companies including Bikesoup and Huxley & Cox.\n\nIn 2015, \"The Sunday Times\" listed Suleyman as 637th in its Rich List, estimating his fortune to be in excess of £150 million.\n\nSuleyman was born in Famagusta on 4 August 1953, into a Turkish Cypriot family. After moving to England, he attended Peckham Manor secondary school.\n\nIn 1984, Suleyman acquired a small cash-and-carry business which subsequently became Low Profile Group, a clothing manufacturer supplying UK retail stores including Marks & Spencer. The company’s factories are based in Turkey, Bulgaria, and Georgia.\n\nIn 2001, Low Profile Group acquired Hawes & Curtis for £1. Turnover at Hawes & Curtis rose from £600,000 in 2001 to £30m in 2014, whilst Suleyman retained the Chairmanship of Hawes & Curtis. \n\nAs of 2014, Hawes & Curtis operates from 30 branches in the UK and one in Cologne, Germany. In 2013, UAE investment group Korath Holding signed a $5m deal to open 26 Hawes & Curtis stores across the Gulf over a period of five years.\n\nIn 2008, Suleyman purchased UK fashion label Ghost after its owner, KCAJ, an Icelandic investment fund, cut investment following the collapse of the Icelandic banking market. The acquisition safeguarded 142 jobs across the company. In 2009 the label announced its first collaboration with design duo Modernist.\n\nAlongside Ghost, Touker Suleyman has invested in Docks Rio, a casual boat shoe brand; Intelligent Futures, an online advertising start-up; Huxley & Cox, a manufacturer of luxury handbags; and Bikesoup, an online marketplace for bicycles in which he invested £100,000 for an undisclosed stake.\n\nIn 2015, Suleyman was chosen to join the investors' panel on the thirteenth series of BBC television programme \"Dragons' Den\", alongside Nick Jenkins and Sarah Willingham.\n\nSuleyman lives in London and has two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "4639454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639454", "title": "Validation (drug manufacture)", "text": "Validation (drug manufacture)\n\nValidation is the process of establishing documentary evidence demonstrating that a procedure, process, or activity carried out in testing and then production maintains the desired level of compliance at all stages. In the pharmaceutical industry, it is very important that in addition to final testing and compliance of products, it is also assured that the process will consistently produce the expected results. The desired results are established in terms of specifications for outcome of the process. Qualification of systems and equipment is therefore a part of the process of validation. Validation is a requirement of food, drug and pharmaceutical regulating agencies such as the US FDA and their good manufacturing practices guidelines. Since a wide variety of procedures, processes, and activities need to be validated, the field of validation is divided into a number of subsections including the following:\n\nSimilarly, the activity of qualifying systems and equipment is divided into a number of subsections including the following:\n\nThe concept of validation was first proposed by two Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials, Ted Byers and Bud Loftus, in 1979 in USA, to improve the quality of pharmaceuticals. It was proposed in direct response to several problems in the sterility of large volume parenteral market. The first validation activities were focused on the processes involved in making these products, but quickly spread to associated processes including environmental control, media fill, equipment sanitization and purified water production.\n\nThe concept of validation was first developed for equipment and processes and derived from the engineering practices used in delivery of large pieces of equipment that would be manufactured, tested, delivered and accepted according to a contract\nThe use of validation spread to other areas of industry after several large-scale problems highlighted the potential risks in the design of products. The most notable is the Therac-25 incident. Here, the software for a large radiotherapy device was poorly designed and tested. In use, several interconnected problems led to several devices giving doses of radiation several thousands of times higher than intended, which resulted in the death of three patients and several more being permanently injured.\n\nIn 2005 an individual wrote a standard by which the transportation process could be validated for cold chain products. This standard was written for a biological manufacturing company and was then written into the PDA's Technical Report # 39, thus establishing the industry standard for cold chain validation. This was critical for the industry due to the sensitivity of drug substances, biologics and vaccines to various temperature conditions. The FDA has also been very focused on this final area of distribution and the potential for a drug substances quality to be impacted by extreme temperature exposure.\n\nFDA, or any other food and drugs regulatory agency around the globe not only ask for a product that meets its specification but also require a process, procedures, intermediate stages of inspections, and testing adopted during manufacturing are designed such that when they are adopted they produce consistently similar, reproducible, desired results which meet the quality standard of product being manufactured and Complies the Regulatory and Security Aspects. Such procedures are developed through the process of validation. This is to maintain and assure a higher degree of quality of food and drug products. \n\"process validation is defined as the collection and evaluation of\ndata, from the process design stage through commercial production, which establishes scientific\nevidence that a process is capable of consistently delivering quality product. Process validation\ninvolves a series of activities taking place over the lifecycle of the product and process.\". A properly designed system will provide a high degree of assurance that every step, process, and change has been properly evaluated before its implementation. Testing a sample of a final product is not considered sufficient evidence that every product within a batch meets the required specification.\n\nThe Validation Master Plan is a document that describes how and when the validation program will be executed in a facility. Even though it is not mandatory, it is the document that outlines the principles involved in the qualification of a facility, defines the areas and systems to be validated and provides a written program for achieving and maintaining a qualified facility with validated processes. It is the foundation for the validation program and should include process validation, facility and utility qualification and validation, equipment qualification, cleaning and computer validation. The regulations also set out an expectation that the different parts of the production process are well defined and controlled, such that the results of that production will not substantially change over time.\n\nThe validation scope, boundaries and responsibilities for each process or groups of similar processes or similar equipment's must be documented and approved in a validation plan. These documents, terms and references for the protocol authors are for use in setting the scope of their protocols. It must be based on a Validation Risk Assessment (VRA) to ensure that the scope of validation being authorised is appropriate for the complexity and importance of the equipment or process under validation. Within the references given in the VP the protocol authors must ensure that all aspects of the process or equipment under qualification; that may affect the efficacy, quality and or records of the product are properly qualified. Qualification includes the following steps:\n\n\nThere are instances when it is more expedient and efficient to transfer some tests or inspections from the IQ to the OQ, or from the OQ to the PQ. This is allowed for in the regulations, provided that a clear and approved justification is documented in the Validation Plan (VP).\nThis combined testing of OQ and PQ phases is sanctioned by the European Commission Enterprise Directorate-General within ‘Annex 15 to the EU Guide to Good Manufacturing Practice guide’ (2001, p. 6) which states that:\n\"Although PQ is described as a separate activity, it may in some cases be appropriate to perform it in conjunction with OQ.\"\nThis requirement has naturally expanded to encompass computer systems used both in the development and production of, and as a part of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, food, blood establishments, tissue establishments, and clinical trials. In 1983 the FDA published a guide to the inspection of Computerized Systems in Pharmaceutical Processing, also known as the 'bluebook'. Recently both the American FDA and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency have added sections to the regulations specifically for the use of computer systems. In the UK, computer validation is covered in Annex 11 of the EU GMP regulations (EMEA 2011). The FDA introduced 21 CFR Part 11 for rules on the use of electronic records, electronic signatures (FDA 1997).\nThe FDA regulation is harmonized with ISO 8402:1994, which treats \"verification\" and \"validation\" as separate and distinct terms. On the other hand, many software engineering journal articles and textbooks use the terms \"verification\" and \"validation\" interchangeably, or in some cases refer to software \"verification, validation, and testing (VV&T)\" as if it is a single concept, with no distinction among the three terms.\nThe General Principles of Software Validation (FDA 2002) defines verification as \n\"Software verification provides objective evidence that the design outputs of a particular phase of the software development life cycle meet all of the specified requirements for that phase.\"\nIt also defines Validation as\n\"Confirmation by examination and provision of objective evidence that software specifications conform to user needs and intended uses, and that the particular requirements implemented through software can be consistently fulfilled\". The software validation guideline states: “The software development process should be sufficiently well planned, controlled, and documented to detect and correct unexpected results from software changes.\" Annex 11 states \"The validation documentation and reports should cover the relevant steps of the life\ncycle.\"\n\nWeichel (2004) recently found that over twenty warning letters issued by the FDA to pharmaceutical companies specifically cited problems in Computer System Validation between 1997 and 2001.\n\nProbably the best known industry guidance available is the GAMP Guide, now in its fifth edition and known as GAMP5 published by ISPE (2008). This guidance gives practical advice on how to satisfy regulatory requirements.\n\nThe definition of validation above discusses production of evidence that a system will meet its specification. This definition does not refer to a computer application or a computer system but to a process. The main implications in this are that validation should cover all aspects of the process including the application, any hardware that the application uses, any interfaces to other systems, the users, training and documentation as well as the management of the system and the validation itself after the system is put into use. The PIC/S guideline (PIC/S 2004) defines this as a 'computer related system'.\nMuch effort is expended within the industry upon validation activities, and several journals are dedicated to both the process and methodology around validation, and the science behind it.\n\nIn the recent years, a risk-based approach has been adopted within the industry, where the testing of computer systems (emphasis on finding problems) is wide-ranging and documented but not heavily evidenced (i.e. hundreds of screen prints are not gathered during testing). Annex 11 states \"Risk management should be applied throughout the lifecycle of the computerised system taking into account patient safety, data integrity and product quality. As part of a risk management system, decisions on the extent of validation and data integrity controls should be based on a justified and documented risk assessment of the computerised system.\"\n\nThe subsequent validation or verification of computer systems targets only the \"GxP critical\" requirements of computer systems. Evidence (e.g. screen prints) is gathered to document the validation exercise. In this way it is assured that systems are thoroughly tested, and that validation and documentation of the \"GxP critical\" aspects is performed in a risk-based manner, optimizing effort and ensuring that computer system's fitness for purpose is demonstrated.\n\nThe overall risk posed by a computer system is now generally considered to be a function of system complexity, patient/product impact, and pedigree (Configurable-Off-The-Shelf or Custom-written for a certain purpose). A lower risk system should merit a less in-depth specification/testing/validation approach. (e.g. The documentation surrounding a spreadsheet containing a simple but \"GxP\" critical calculation should not match that of a Chromatography Data System with 20 Instruments)\n\nDetermination of a \"GxP critical\" requirement for a computer system is subjective, and the definition needs to be tailored to the organisation involved. However, in general a \"GxP\" requirement may be considered to be a requirement which leads to the development/configuration of a computer function which has a direct impact on patient safety,\nthe pharmaceutical product being processed, or has been developed/configured to meet a regulatory requirement. In addition if a function has a direct impact on GxP data (security or integrity) it may be considered \"GxP critical\".\n\nValidation process efforts must account for the complete product life cycle, including developmental procedures adapted for qualification of a drug product commencing with its research and development phase, rationale for adapting a best fit formula which represents the relationship between required outputs and specified inputs, and procedure for manufacturing. Each step is required to be justified and monitored in order to provide a good quality food and drug product. The FDA emphasizes the product life cycle approach in its evaluation of manufacturer regulatory compliance as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58183500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58183500", "title": "Work 4.0", "text": "Work 4.0\n\nWork 4.0 (German: \"Arbeit 4.0\") is the conceptual umbrella under which the future of work is discussed in Germany and, to some extent, within the European Union. It describes how the world of work may change until 2030 and beyond in response to the developments associated with Industry 4.0, including widespread digitalization. The concept was first introduced in November 2015 by the German Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (BMAS) when it launched a report entitled \"Re-Imagining Work: Green Paper Work 4.0\". It has since then been taken up by trade unions such as the DGB and various employers' and industry association such as the VDMA and the BDA. At the global level, similar topics are addressed by the World Bank's 2019 World Development Report \"The Changing Nature of Work\" and ILO's \"Future of Work Centenary Initiative\".\n\nConceptually, Work 4.0 reflects the current fourth phase of work relations, having been preceded by the birth of industrial society and the first workers' organizations in the late 18th century (Work 1.0), the beginning of mass production and of the welfare state in the late 19th century (Work 2.0), and the advent of globalization, digitalization and the transformation of the social market economy since the 1970s (Work 3.0). By contrast, Work 4.0 is characterized by a high degree of integration and cooperation, the use of digital technologies (e.g. the internet), and a rise in flexible work arrangements. Its drivers include digitalization, globalization, demographic change (ageing, migration), and cultural change. Challenges include \n\nIn response to these challenges, the BMAS has developed a \"vision for quality jobs in the digital age\", based on policies such as moving from unemployment to employment insurance, the promotion of self-determined flexible working time arrangements, improvements in the working conditions of the service sector, new ergonomic approaches to occupational health and safety, high standards in employee data protection, the co-determination and participation of social partners in employment relations, better social protection for self-employed persons, and the beginning of a European dialogue on the future of the welfare state.\n\nThe World Development Report 2019 argues that a new social contract is needed to address longer work transitions. Authors Simeon Djankov and Federica Saliola documents examples of countries and companies that have created new ways to deliver social insurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "53242116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53242116", "title": "Xavier Beulin", "text": "Xavier Beulin\n\nXavier Beulin (19 December 1958 – 19 February 2017) was a French agribusiness executive and lobbyist. He was the chairman of the Avril Group from 2000 to 2017, and chairman of the Fédération nationale des syndicats d'exploitants agricoles from 2010 to 2017.\n"}
{"id": "44963974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44963974", "title": "Ziv Carmon", "text": "Ziv Carmon\n\nZiv Carmon is the Dean of Research, Professor of Business Administration, and holder of The Alfred H. Heineken Chaired Professorship at INSEAD. An expert in human judgment and decision-making, he is best known for his research on placebo effects of commercial actions and on the endowment effect, and his presentations and teachings about Customer Insight.\n\nAfter working in sales and business analysis in the corporate world, he studied in the United States at University of California at Berkeley, where he received his MS in Business Administration and his PhD with a thesis entitled \"The Contingent Nature of Consumers Assessments of the Quality of Products and Services\" under the guidance of Nobel Laureate Daniel Kahneman and Itamar Simonson. Carmon began his academic career at the Duke University in 1993 as assistant professor at the Fuqua School of Business, where in 1997 he became associate professor. In 2000 he moved to France, to teach at INSEAD, and moved in 2004 to Singapore.\n\nCarmon is a frequent speaker at professional conferences and business events. His views on business frequently appear in international media outlets such as: New York Times, The Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, The New Yorker, Forbes, The Wall Street Journal, Financial Times, Scientific American, Popular Science, Bloomberg Businessweek, Newsweek, USA Today, The Huffington Post, The Boston Globe, International Herald Tribune, Marketing News, The Times (UK), The Guardian (UK), The Daily Telegraph (UK), Toronto Star, Newsweek, National Public Radio, MSNBC, ABC News, Channel 4 (UK), and numerous blogs.\n\nCarmon’s research on placebo effects of marketing actions won the 2010 William F. O'Dell Award (for long-term contribution to marketing theory, methodology, and/or practice), was runner-up for the 2006 Paul Green Award (for showing the most potential to contribute significantly to marketing research practice and research in marketing), and was also chosen as one of the top 50 management articles of 2005 by Emerald Management Reviews (awarded to the 50 most notable out of the 15,000 articles that year).\n\nHis papers on Indeterminacy and the Live TV, and on Option Attachment, were finalists for the 2009 and 2006 Journal of Consumer Research Best Article Awards. \n\nIn 2008 Carmon, along with his co-authors, Rebecca Waber, Dan Ariely and Baba Shiv, was awarded an Ig Nobel Prize in medicine for their research demonstrating that high-priced placebos are more effective than low-priced ones. Carmon serves as Consulting Editor for the Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, served as Associate Editor for the Journal of Marketing Research, and is a member of the editorial review boards of a variety of other major journals, such as the Journal of Consumer Research, the Journal of Consumer Psychology, & the International Journal of Research in Marketing.\n\nCarmon has taught in many countries around the world, in degree programs (Executive MBA, MBA, and PhD), numerous executive-education-programs (company-specific-, in-house-, open-enrollment), and received a variety of awards for teaching excellence.\n\n"}
