{"id": "10741567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10741567", "title": "1964 in radio", "text": "1964 in radio\n\nThe year 1964 saw a number of significant events in radio broadcasting history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222074", "title": "Anarcha-feminism", "text": "Anarcha-feminism\n\nAnarcha-feminism, also called anarchist feminism and anarcho-feminism, combines anarchism with feminism. It generally views patriarchy and traditional gender roles as a manifestation of involuntary coercive hierarchy that should be replaced by decentralized free association. They believe that the struggle against patriarchy is an essential part of class conflict and the anarchist struggle against the state and capitalism. In essence, the philosophy sees anarchist struggle as a necessary component of feminist struggle and vice versa. L. Susan Brown claims that \"as anarchism is a political philosophy that opposes all relationships of power, it is inherently feminist\". Contrary to popular belief and contemporary association with radical feminism, anarcha-feminism is not an inherently militant outlook. It is described to be an anti-authoritarian, anti-capitalist, anti-oppressive philosophy, with the goal of creating an \"equal ground\" between all genders. The term \"anarcha-feminism\" suggests the social freedom and liberty of women, without needed dependence upon other groups or parties.\n\nMikhail Bakunin opposed patriarchy and the way the law \"[subjected women] to the absolute domination of the man\". He argued that \"[e]qual rights must belong to men and women\" so that women could \"become independent and be free to forge their own way of life\". Bakunin foresaw the end of \"the authoritarian juridical family\" and \"the full sexual freedom of women\". On the other hand, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon viewed the family as the most basic unit of society and of his morality and believed that women had the responsibility of fulfilling a traditional role within the family.\n\nSince the 1860s, anarchism's radical critique of capitalism and the state has been combined with a critique of patriarchy. Anarcha-feminists thus start from the precept that modern society is dominated by men. Authoritarian traits and values—domination, exploitation, aggression and competition—are integral to hierarchical civilizations and are seen as \"masculine\". In contrast, non-authoritarian traits and values—cooperation, sharing, compassion and sensitivity—are regarded as \"feminine\" and devalued. Anarcha-feminists have thus espoused creation of a non-authoritarian, anarchist society. They refer to the creation of a society based on cooperation, sharing and as the \"feminization of society\".\n\nAnarcha-feminism began with late 19th and early 20th century authors and theorists such as anarchist feminists Emma Goldman, Voltairine de Cleyre and Lucy Parsons. In the Spanish Civil War, an anarcha-feminist group, (\"Free Women\"), linked to the , organized to defend both anarchist and feminist ideas. Stirnerist Nietzschean feminist Federica Montseny held that the \"emancipation of women would lead to a quicker realization of the social revolution\" and that \"the revolution against sexism would have to come from intellectual and militant 'future-women'\". According to this Nietzschean concept of Federica Montseny's, women could \"realize through art and literature the need to revise their own roles\". In China, the anarcha-feminist He Zhen argued that without women's liberation society could not be liberated.\n\nIn Argentina, Virginia Bolten is responsible for the publication of a newspaper called ' ('), which was published nine times in Rosario between January 8, 1896 and January 1, 1897 and was briefly revived in 1901. A similar paper with the same name was reportedly published later in Montevideo, which suggests that Bolten may also have founded and edited it after her deportation. \"La Voz de la Mujer\" described itself as \"dedicated to the advancement of Communist Anarchism\". Its central theme was the multiple natures of women's oppression. An editorial asserted: \"We believe that in present-day society, nothing and nobody has a more wretched situation than unfortunate women\". They said that women were doubly oppressed by both bourgeois society and men. Its beliefs can be seen from its attack on marriage and upon male power over women. Its contributors, like anarchist feminists elsewhere, developed a concept of oppression that focused on gender. They saw marriage as a bourgeois institution which restricted women's freedom, including their sexual freedom. Marriages entered into without love, fidelity maintained through fear rather than desire and oppression of women by men they hated were all seen as symptomatic of the coercion implied by the marriage contract. It was this alienation of the individual's will that the anarchist feminists deplored and sought to remedy, initially through free love and then more thoroughly through social revolution.\n\nAn important topic within individualist anarchism is free love. Free love advocates sometimes traced their roots back to Josiah Warren and to experimental communities, which viewed sexual freedom as a clear, direct expression of an individual's self-ownership. Free love particularly stressed women's rights since most sexual laws discriminated against women, such as marriage laws and anti-birth control measures. The most important American free love journal was \"Lucifer the Lightbearer\" (1883–1907), edited by Moses Harman and Lois Waisbrooker. Ezra and Angela Heywood's \"The Word\" was also published from 1872–1890 and in 1892–1893. M. E. Lazarus was also an important American individualist anarchist who promoted free love. In Europe, the main propagandist of free love within individualist anarchism was Émile Armand. He proposed the concept of \"\" to speak of free love as the possibility of voluntary sexual encounter between consenting adults. He was also a consistent proponent of polyamory. In France, there was also feminist activity inside French individualist anarchism as promoted by individualist feminists Marie Küge, Anna Mahé, Rirette Maîtrejean and Sophia Zaïkovska.\nBrazilian individualist anarchist Maria Lacerda de Moura lectured on topics such as education, women's rights, free love and antimilitarism. Her writings and essays landed her attention not only in Brazil, but also in Argentina and Uruguay. In February 1923, she launched \"\", a periodical linked with the anarchist, progressive and freethinking circles of the period. Her thought was mainly influenced by individualist anarchists such as Han Ryner and Émile Armand.\n\nVoltairine de Cleyre (November 17, 1866 – June 20, 1912) was an American anarchist writer and feminist. She was a prolific writer and speaker, opposing the state, marriage and the domination of religion in sexuality and women's lives. She began her activist career in the freethought movement. De Cleyre was initially drawn to individualist anarchism, but evolved through mutualism to an \"anarchism without adjectives\". She was a colleague of Emma Goldman, with whom she respectfully disagreed with on many issues. Many of her essays were in the \"Collected Works of Voltairine de Cleyre\", published posthumously by \"Mother Earth\" in 1914. In her 1895 lecture entitled \"Sex Slavery,\" de Cleyre condemns ideals of beauty that encourage women to distort their bodies and child socialization practices that create unnatural gender roles. The title of the essay refers not to traffic in women for purposes of prostitution, although that is also mentioned, but rather to marriage laws that allow men to rape their wives without consequences. Such laws make \"every married woman what she is, a bonded slave, who takes her master's name, her master's bread, her master's commands, and serves her master's passions\".\n\nAlthough she was hostile to first-wave feminism and its suffragist goals, Emma Goldman advocated passionately for the rights of women and is today heralded as a founder of anarcha-feminism. In 1897, she wrote: \"I demand the independence of woman, her right to support herself; to live for herself; to love whomever she pleases, or as many as she pleases. I demand freedom for both sexes, freedom of action, freedom in love and freedom in motherhood\".\n\nIn 1906, Goldman wrote a piece entitled \"The Tragedy of Woman's Emancipation\" in which she argued that traditional suffragists and first-wave feminists were achieving only a superficial good for women by pursuing the vote and a movement from the home sphere. She also writes that in the ideal world women would be free to pursue their own destinies, yet \"emancipation of woman, as interpreted and practically applied today, has failed to reach that great end\". She pointed to the \"so-called independence\" of the modern woman whose true nature—her love and mother instincts—were rebuked and stifled by the suffragist and early feminist movements. Goldman's arguments in this text are arguably much more in line with the ideals of modern third-wave feminism than with the feminism of her time, especially given her emphasis on allowing women to pursue marriage and motherhood if they so desired. In Goldman's eyes, the early twentieth century idea of the emancipated woman had a \"tragic effect upon the inner life of woman\" by restricting her from fully fulfilling her nature and having a well-rounded life with a companion in marriage.\n\nA nurse by training, Goldman was an early advocate for educating women about birth control. Like many contemporary feminists, she saw abortion as a tragic consequence of social conditions and birth control as a positive alternative. Goldman was also an advocate of free love and a strong critic of marriage. She saw early feminists as confined in their scope and bounded by social forces of Puritanism and capitalism. She wrote: \"We are in need of unhampered growth out of old traditions and habits. The movement for women's emancipation has so far made but the first step in that direction\". When Margaret Sanger, an advocate of access to birth control, coined the term \"birth control\" and disseminated information about various methods in the June 1914 issue of her magazine \"The Woman Rebel\", she received aggressive support from Goldman. Sanger was arrested in August under the Comstock laws, which prohibited the dissemination of \"obscene, lewd, or lascivious articles\"—including information relating to birth control. Although they later split from Sanger over charges of insufficient support, Goldman and Reitman distributed copies of Sanger's pamphlet \"Family Limitation\" (along with a similar essay of Reitman's). In 1915, Goldman conducted a nationwide speaking tour in part to raise awareness about contraception options. Although the nation's attitude toward the topic seemed to be liberalizing, Goldman was arrested in February 1916 and charged with violation of the Comstock Law. Refusing to pay a $100 fine, she spent two weeks in a prison workhouse, which she saw as an \"opportunity\" to reconnect with those rejected by society.\n\nGoldman was also an outspoken critic of prejudice against homosexuals. Her belief that social liberation should extend to gay men and lesbians was virtually unheard of at the time, even among anarchists. As Magnus Hirschfeld wrote, \"she was the first and only woman, indeed the first and only American, to take up the defense of homosexual love before the general public\". In numerous speeches and letters, she defended the right of gay men and lesbians to love as they pleased and condemned the fear and stigma associated with homosexuality. As Goldman wrote in a letter to Hirschfeld: \"It is a tragedy, I feel, that people of a different sexual type are caught in a world which shows so little understanding for homosexuals and is so crassly indifferent to the various gradations and variations of gender and their great significance in life\".\n\nMilly Witkop was a Ukrainian-born Jewish anarcho-syndicalist, feminist writer and activist. She was the common-law wife of Rudolf Rocker. In November 1918, Witkop and Rocker moved to Berlin; Rocker had been invited by Free Association of German Trade Unions (FVdG) chairman Fritz Kater to join him in building up what would become the Free Workers' Union of Germany (FAUD), an anarcho-syndicalist trade union. Both Rocker and Witkop became members of the FAUD. After its founding in early 1919, a discussion about the role of girls and women in the union started. The male-dominated organization had at first ignored gender issues, but soon women started founding their own unions, which were organized parallel to the regular unions, but still formed part of the FAUD. Witkop was one of the leading founders of the Women's Union in Berlin in 1920. On October 15, 1921, the women's unions held a national congress in Düsseldorf and the Syndicalist Women's Union (SFB) was founded on a national level. Shortly thereafter, Witkop drafted \"Was will der Syndikalistische Frauenbund?\" (\"What Does the Syndicalist Women's Union Want?\") as a platform for the SFB. From 1921, the \"Frauenbund\" was published as a supplement to the FAUD organ \"Der Syndikalist\", Witkop was one of its primary writers.\n\nWitkop reasoned that proletarian women were exploited not only by capitalism like male workers, but also by their male counterparts. She contended therefore that women must actively fight for their rights, much like workers must fight capitalism for theirs. She also insisted on the necessity of women taking part in class struggle and that housewives could use boycotts to support this struggle. From this, she concluded the necessity of an autonomous women's organization in the FAUD. Witkop also held that domestic work should be deemed equally valuable to wage labor.\n\n' (') was an anarchist women's organization in Spain that aimed to empower working class women. It was founded in 1936 by Lucía Sánchez Saornil, Mercedes Comaposada and Amparo Poch y Gascón and had approximately 30,000 members. The organization was based on the idea of a \"double struggle\" for women's liberation and social revolution and argued that the two objectives were equally important and should be pursued in parallel. In order to gain mutual support, they created networks of women anarchists. Flying day-care centres were set up in efforts to involve more women in union activities.\n\nThe organization also produced propaganda through radio, traveling libraries and propaganda tours in order to promote their cause. Organizers and activists traveled through rural parts of Spain to set up rural collectives and support for women. To prepare women for leadership roles in the anarchist movement, they organized schools, women-only social groups and a women-only newspaper to help women gain self-esteem and confidence in their abilities and network with one another to develop their political consciousness. Many of the female workers in Spain were illiterate and the \"Mujeres Libres\" sought to educate them through literacy programs, technically oriented classes and social studies classes. Schools were also created for train nurses to help injured in emergency medical clinics. Medical classes also provided women with information on sexual health and pre and post-natal care. The \"Mujeres Libres\" also created a woman run magazine to keep all of its members informed. The first monthly issue of \"Mujeres Libres\" was published on May 20, 1936 (ack 100). However, the magazine only had 14 issues and the last issue was still being printed when the Spanish Civil War battlefront reached Barcelona, and no copies survived. The magazine addressed working class women and focused on \"awakening the female conscience toward libertarian ideas\".\n\nLucía Sánchez Saornil (December 13, 1895 – June 2, 1970), was a Spanish poet, militant anarchist and feminist. She is best known as one of the founders of \"Mujeres Libres\". She served in the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and Solidaridad Internacional Antifascista (SIA). By 1919, she had been published in a variety of journals, including \"Los Quijotes\", \"Tableros\", \"Plural\", \"Manantial\" and \"La Gaceta Literaria\". Working under a male pen name, she was able to explore lesbian themes at a time when homosexuality was criminalized and subject to censorship and punishment. Writing in anarchist publications such as \"Earth and Freedom\", the \"White Magazine\" and \"Workers' Solidarity\", Lucía outlined her perspective as a feminist. Although quiet on the subject of birth control, she attacked the essentialism of gender roles in Spanish society. In this way, Lucía established herself as one of the most radical of voices among anarchist women, rejecting the ideal of female domesticity which remained largely unquestioned. In a series of articles for \"Workers' Solidarity\", she boldly refuted Gregorio Marañón's identification of motherhood as the nucleus of female identity.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Paterson, New Jersey was a major center of the anarchist movement. Most of the anarchists in the area were Italian migrants who worked in the mills and women played an important role in the movement.\n\nNorthern Italian migrants Maria Roda, Ernestina Cravello and Ninfa Baronio founded Paterson's \"Gruppo Emancipazione della Donna\" (Women's Emancipation Group) in 1897. The group gave lectures, wrote for the anarchist press, and published pamphlets. They also formed the \"Club Femminile de Musica e di Canto\" (Women's Music and Song Club) and the \"Teatro Sociale\" (Social Theater). The Teatro performed plays which challenged Catholic sexual morality and called for the emancipation of women. Their plays stood in marked contrast to other radical works in which women were depicted as victims in need of rescuing by male revolutionaries. They often traveled to perform their plays, and connected with other Italian anarchist women in Hoboken, Brooklyn, Manhattan and New London, Connecticut. The Paterson group met regularly for about seven years and inspired other women to form similar groups. Their Southern Italian contemporaries included Elvira Catello in East Harlem, who ran a popular theater group and a radical bookstore; Maria Raffuzzi in Manhattan, who co-founded \"Il Gruppo di Propaganda Femminile\" (Women's Propaganda Group) in 1901; and Maria Barbieri, an anarchist orator who helped organize the silk workers in Paterson.\n\nAnarchist Italian women such as Maria Roda flouted convention and Catholic teaching by rejecting traditional marriage in favor of \"free unions\". In practice, these unions often turned out to be lifelong and monogamous, with the division of labor falling along traditional lines. The anarchist writer Ersilia Cavedagni believed that \"the woman is and will always be the educator of the family, that which has and will always have the most direct and the most important influence on the children\".\n\nAn important aspect of anarcha-feminism is its opposition to traditional concepts of family, education and gender roles. The institution of marriage is one of the most widely opposed. De Cleyre argued that marriage stifled individual growth and Goldman argued that it \"is primarily an economic arrangement... [woman] pays for it with her name, her privacy, her self-respect, her very life\". Anarcha-feminists have also argued for non-hierarchical family and educational structures and had a prominent role in the creation of the Modern School in New York City, based on the ideas of Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia.\n\n\"The Fine Art of Labeling: The Convergence of Anarchism, Feminism, and Bisexuality\", by Lucy Friedland and Liz Highleyman, is a piece in \"\" (1991), an anthology edited by Loraine Hutchins and Lani Ka'ahumanu which is one of the seminal books in the history of the modern bisexual rights movement.\n\nContemporary anarcha-feminism has been noted for its heavy influence on ecofeminism: \"Ecofeminists rightly note that except for anarcha-feminist, no feminist perspective has recognized the importance of healing the nature/culture division\". Contemporary anarcha-feminist writers/theorists include Maria Mies, Peggy Kornegger, L. Susan Brown, the eco-feminist Starhawk and the post-left anarchist and anarcho-primitivist Lilith.\n\nIn the past decades, two films have been produced about anarcha-feminism. \"Libertarias\" is a historical drama made in 1996 about the Spanish anarcha-feminist organization \"Mujeres Libres\". In 2010, the Argentinian film \"Ni dios, ni patrón, ni marido\" was released which is centered on the story of anarcha-feminist Virginia Bolten and her publishing of the newspaper ' (').\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14570497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14570497", "title": "Ann Dooley", "text": "Ann Dooley\n\nAnn Dooley is a professor with the Centre for Medieval Studies and the Celtic Studies Program at St. Michael's College at the University of Toronto where she specializes in Irish literature. She has published a translation of \"Acallam na Senórach\" entitled \"Tales of the Elders of Ireland\" as well as a study of \"Táin Bó Cuailnge\" entitled \"Playing the Hero: Reading the Irish Saga \"Táin Bó Cuailnge\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38629013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38629013", "title": "Autonomous Stained Glass", "text": "Autonomous Stained Glass\n\nThe term \"autonomous\" as applied to stained glass refers to works which are designed independent of architecture. Autonomous works are not designed to glaze windows. The term \"stained glass\" commonly precedes \"window\" and is thus linked to architecture both linguistically and conceptually. The autonomous work is more like a painting than a stained glass window, and is a non-traditional use of the medium. One critic somewhat pejoratively calls non-architectural stained glass \"uncommissioned panels.\" Another traditionalist claims: \"Stained glass can never be really satisfactory when considered as a bibelot to be hung up in the window or when sold in galleries like paintings for room decoration.\"\n\nFrom the Renaissance (Uccello, Ghiberti, Ghirlandaio), through the 18th and 19th centuries (Sir Joshua Reynolds, Delacroix), into the 20th century (Rouault, Chagall), artists have made windows in the style of their paintings. These windows look like paintings but they are \"windows\" that respond, to a greater or lesser degree, to the form, purpose, and mood of a building. Over time there have been scattered examples of works painted on small sheets of glass, sometimes assembled with lead, which were not designed to fill window openings. In Germany during the second half of the 20th century, studios began fabricating small panels for display in galleries and museums that were either similar in style to, or details of larger windows. Such panels are generally extensions of an architecturally accommodative aesthetic quite different from the \"personal and introspective\" approach of much contemporary painting and autonomous stained glass. \n\nTheo van Doesburg, Piet Mondrian, Josef Albers and a handful of other early 20th-century artists did on occasion make autonomous stained glass works. Not until the early 1970s in the United States, however, did a group of stained glass artists devote themselves, in some instances exclusively, to such work. Like painters, they used the medium in expressive, personal ways, designing and executing their own work rather than having them made by outside studios as is common with architectural stained glass windows. The first generation of American artists working autonomously with stained glass was documented in the landmark 1978 exhibition \"New Stained Glass\" at New York’s Museum of Contemporary Crafts. Subsequently others, worldwide, have devoted themselves to making autonomous stained glass. \n\nIn the book \"Twentieth Century Stained Glass: A New Definition\", art critic Robert Kehlmann points out that making a stained glass panel and designing a window are two different disciplines. Autonomous glass artists generally fabricate their own work, very often experimenting with materials, technique, and the uses of light. They freely \"address a wide range of ideas and feelings without concern for the form and mood of a building.\" The size, shape and imagery of an autonomous stained glass work is \"dictated solely by the nature of materials and personal aesthetics.\" \n"}
{"id": "29425434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29425434", "title": "Bibliography of the Turks and Caicos Islands", "text": "Bibliography of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with the general subject of the Turks and Caicos Islands, their geography, history, people, culture, biota, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "151855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151855", "title": "Billy the Kid", "text": "Billy the Kid\n\nBilly the Kid (born Henry McCarty September 17 or November 23, 1859July 14, 1881, also known as William H. Bonney) was an American Old West outlaw and gunfighter who killed eight men before he was shot and killed at age 21. He took part in New Mexico's Lincoln County War, during which he allegedly took part in three murders.\n\nMcCarty was orphaned at age 13. The owner of a boarding house gave him a room in exchange for work. His first arrest was for stealing food at age 16 in late 1875. Ten days later, he robbed a Chinese laundry and was arrested, but he escaped only two days later. He tried to stay with his stepfather, and then fled from New Mexico Territory into neighboring Arizona Territory, making him both an outlaw and a federal fugitive. In 1877, McCarty began to refer to himself as \"William H. Bonney\".\n\nAfter murdering a blacksmith during an altercation in August 1877, Bonney became a wanted man in Arizona Territory and returned to New Mexico, where he joined a group of cattle rustlers. He became a well-known figure in the region when he joined the Regulators and took part in the Lincoln County War. In April 1878, the Regulators killed three men, including Lincoln County Sheriff William J. Brady and one of his deputies. Bonney and two other Regulators were later charged with killing all three men.\n\nBonney's notoriety grew in December 1880 when the \"Las Vegas Gazette\" in Las Vegas, New Mexico, and \"The Sun\" in New York City carried stories about his crimes. Sheriff Pat Garrett captured Bonney later that month. In April 1881, Bonney was tried and convicted of the murder of Brady, and was sentenced to hang in May of that year. He escaped from jail on April 28, 1881, killing two sheriff's deputies in the process and evading capture for more than two months. Garrett shot and killed Bonneyaged 21in Fort Sumner on July 14, 1881. During the following decades, legends that Bonney had survived that night grew, and a number of men claimed to be him.\n\nHenry McCarty was born to Catherine () McCarty in New York City. While his birth year has been confirmed to be 1859, the exact date of his birth has been disputed as either September 17 or November 23 of that year. A letter from an official of Saint Peters's Church in Manhattan states it is in possession of records showing McCarty was baptized in that church on September 28, 1859. Census records indicate his younger brother, Joseph McCarty, was born in 1863.\n\nFollowing the death of her husband Patrick, Catherine McCarty and her sons moved to Indianapolis, Indiana, where she met William Henry Harrison Antrim. The McCarty family moved with Antrim to Wichita, Kansas, in 1870. After moving again a few years later, Catherine married Antrim on March 1, 1873, at the First Presbyterian Church in Santa Fe, New Mexico Territory; McCarty and his brother Joseph were witnesses to the ceremony. Shortly afterward, the family moved from Santa Fe to Silver City, New Mexico, and Joseph McCarty began using the name Joseph Antrim. Catherine McCarty died of tuberculosis on September 16, 1874.\n\nMcCarty was 13 years old when his mother died. Sarah Brown, the owner of a boarding house, gave him room and board in exchange for work. On September 16, 1875, McCarty was caught stealing food. Ten days later, McCarty and George Schaefer robbed a Chinese laundry, stealing clothing and two pistols. McCarty was charged with theft and was jailed. He escaped two days later and became a fugitive, as reported in the \"Silver City Herald\" the next day, the first story published about him. McCarty located his stepfather and stayed with him until Antrim threw him out; McCarty stole clothing and guns from him. It was the last time the two saw each other.\n\nAfter leaving Antrim, McCarty traveled to southeastern Arizona Territory, where he worked as a ranch hand and gambled his wages in nearby gaming houses. In 1876, he was hired as a ranch hand by well-known rancher Henry Hooker. During this time, McCarty became acquainted with John R. Mackie, a Scottish-born criminal and former U.S. Cavalry private who, following his discharge, remained near the U.S. Army post at Camp Grant. The two men soon began stealing horses from local soldiers. McCarty became known as \"Kid Antrim\" because of his youth, slight build, clean-shaven appearance, and personality.\n\nOn August 17, 1877, McCarty was at a saloon in the village of Bonita when he got into an argument with Francis P. \"Windy\" Cahill, a blacksmith who reportedly had bullied McCarty and on more than one occasion, called McCarty a \"pimp\". McCarty in turn called Cahill a \"son of a bitch,\" whereupon Cahill threw McCarty to the floor and the two struggled for McCarty's revolver. McCarty shot and mortally wounded Cahill. A witness said, \"[Billy] had no choice; he had to use his equalizer.\" Cahill died the following day. McCarty fled but returned a few days later and was apprehended by Miles Wood, the local justice of the peace. McCarty was detained and held in the Camp Grant guardhouse but escaped before law enforcement could arrive.\n\nMcCarty stole a horse and fled Arizona Territory for New Mexico Territory, but Apaches took the horse from him, leaving him to walk many miles to the nearest settlement. At Fort Stanton in the Pecos Valley, McCarty—starving and near death—went to the home of friend and Seven Rivers Warriors gang member John Jones, whose mother Barbara nursed McCarty back to health. After regaining his health, McCarty went to Apache Tejo, a former army post, where he joined a band of rustlers who raided herds owned by cattle magnate John Chisum in Lincoln County. After McCarty was spotted in Silver City, his involvement with the gang was mentioned in a local newspaper.\n\nAt some point in 1877, McCarty began to refer to himself as \"William H. Bonney\".\n\nAfter returning to New Mexico, Bonney worked for English businessman and rancher John Henry Tunstall (1853–1878), as a cowboy near the Rio Felix—a tributary of the Rio Grande—in Lincoln County. Tunstall and his business partner and lawyer Alexander McSween were opponents of an alliance formed by Irish-American businessmen Lawrence Murphy, James Dolan, and John Riley. The three men had wielded an economic and political hold over Lincoln County since the early 1870s, due in part to their ownership of a beef contract with nearby Fort Stanton and a well-patronized dry goods store in Lincoln.\n\nIn February 1878, McSween owed $8,000 to Dolan, who obtained a court order and asked Lincoln County Sheriff William J. Brady to attach nearly $40,000 worth of Tunstall's property and livestock. Tunstall put Bonney in charge of nine prime horses and told him to relocate them to his ranch for safekeeping. Meanwhile, Sheriff Brady assembled a large posse to seize Tunstall's cattle.\n\nOn February 18, 1878, Tunstall learned of the posse's presence on his land and rode out to intervene. During the encounter, one member of the posse shot Tunstall in the chest, knocking him off his horse. Another posse member took Tunstall's gun and killed him with a shot to the back of his head. Tunstall's murder ignited the conflict between the two factions that became known as the Lincoln County War.\n\nAfter Tunstall was killed, Bonney and Dick Brewer swore affidavits against Brady and those in his posse, and obtained murder warrants from Lincoln County justice of the peace John B. Wilson. On February 20, 1878, while attempting to arrest Brady, the sheriff and his deputies found and arrested Bonney and two other men riding with him. Deputy U.S. Marshal Robert Widenmann, a friend of Bonney, and a detachment of soldiers captured Sheriff Brady's jail guards, put them behind bars, and released Bonney and Brewer.\n\nBonney then joined the Lincoln County Regulators; on March 9 they captured Frank Baker and William Morton, both of whom were accused of killing Tunstall. Baker and Morton were killed while trying to escape.\n\nOn April 1, the Regulators ambushed Sheriff Brady and his deputies; Bonney was wounded in the thigh during the battle. Sheriff Brady, and Deputy Sheriff George W. Hindman, were killed. On the morning of April 4, 1878, Buckshot Roberts and Dick Brewer were killed during a shootout at Blazer's Mill. Warrants were issued for several participants on both sides, and Bonney and two others were charged with killing the three men.\n\nOn the night of Sunday, July 14, McSween and the Regulators—now a group of fifty or sixty men—went to Lincoln and stationed themselves in the town among several buildings. At the McSween residence were Bonney, Florencio Chavez, Jose Chavez y Chavez, Jim French, Harvey Morris, Tom O'Folliard, and Yginio Salazar, among others. Another group led by Marin Chavez and Doc Scurlock positioned themselves on the roof of a saloon. Henry Newton Brown, Dick Smith and George Coe defended a nearby adobe bunkhouse.\n\nOn Tuesday, July 16, the newly appointed sheriff George Peppin sent sharpshooters to kill the McSween defenders at the saloon. Peppin's men retreated when one of the snipers, Charles Crawford, was killed by Fernando Herrera. Peppin then sent a request for assistance to Colonel Nathan Dudley, commandant of nearby Fort Stanton. In a reply to Peppin, Dudley refused to intervene but later arrived in Lincoln with troops, turning the battle in favor of the Murphy-Dolan faction.\n\nA shooting war broke out on Friday, July 19. McSween's supporters gathered inside his house; when Buck Powell and Deputy Sheriff Jack Long set fire to the building, the occupants began shooting. Bonney and the other men fled the building when all rooms but one were burning. During the confusion, Alexander McSween was shot and killed by Robert W. Beckwith, who was then shot and killed by Bonney.\n\nBonney and three other survivors of the Battle of Lincoln were near the Mescalero Indian Agency when the agency bookkeeper, Morris Bernstein, was murdered on August 5, 1878. All four were indicted for the murder, despite conflicting evidence that Bernstein had been killed by Constable Atanacio Martinez. All of these indictments except Bonney's were later quashed.\n\nOn October 5, 1878, U.S. Marshal John Sherman informed newly appointed Territorial Governor and former Army general Lew Wallace that he held warrants for several men, including \"William H. Antrim, alias Kid, alias Bonny [sic]\" but was unable to execute them \"owing to the disturbed condition of affairs in that county, resulting from the acts of a desperate class of men\". Wallace issued an amnesty proclamation on November 13, 1878, which pardoned anyone involved in the Lincoln County War since Tunstall's murder. It specifically excluded persons who had been convicted of or indicted for a crime, and therefore excluded Bonney.\n\nOn February 18, 1879, Bonney and friend Tom O'Folliard were in Lincoln and watched as attorney Huston Chapman was shot and his corpse set on fire. According to eyewitnesses, the pair were innocent bystanders forced at gunpoint by Jesse Evans to witness the murder.\n\nBonney wrote to Governor Wallace on March 13, 1879, with an offer to provide information on the Chapman murder in exchange for amnesty. On March 15, Governor Wallace replied, agreeing to a secret meeting to discuss the situation. Bonney met with Wallace in Lincoln on March 17, 1879. During the meeting and in subsequent correspondence, Wallace promised Bonney protection from his enemies and clemency if he would offer his testimony to a grand jury. On March 20, Wallace wrote to Bonney, \"to remove all suspicion of understanding, I think it better to put the arresting party in charge of Sheriff Kimbrell [sic] who shall be instructed to see that no violence is used\". Bonney responded on the same day, agreeing to testify and confirming Wallace's proposal for his arrest and detention in a local jail to assure his safety. On March 21, Bonney let himself be captured by a posse led by Sheriff George Kimball of Lincoln County. As agreed, Bonney provided a statement about Chapman's murder and testified in court. However, after Bonney's testimony, the local district attorney refused to set him free.\n\nStill in custody several weeks later, Bonney began to suspect Wallace had used subterfuge and would never grant him amnesty. Bonney escaped from the Lincoln County jail on June 17, 1879.\n\nBonney avoided further violence until January 10, 1880, when he shot and killed Joe Grant, a newcomer to the area, at Hargrove's Saloon in Fort Sumner, New Mexico. The \"Santa Fe Weekly New Mexican\" reported, \"Billy Bonney, more extensively known as 'the Kid,' shot and killed Joe Grant. The origin of the difficulty was not learned.\" According to other contemporary sources, Bonney had been warned Grant intended to kill him. He walked up to Grant, told him he admired his revolver, and asked to examine it. Grant handed it over. Before returning the pistol, which Bonney noticed contained only three cartridges, he positioned the cylinder so the next hammer fall would land on an empty chamber. Grant suddenly pointed his pistol at Bonney's face and pulled the trigger. When it failed to fire, Bonney drew his own weapon and shot Grant in the head. A reporter for the \"Las Vegas Optic\" quoted Bonney as saying the encounter \"was a game of two and I got there first\".\n\nIn 1880 Bonney formed a friendship with a rancher named Jim Greathouse, who later introduced him to Dave Rudabaugh. On November 29, 1880, Bonney, Rudabaugh and Billy Wilson ran from a posse led by sheriff's deputy James Carlyle. Cornered at Greathouse's ranch, Bonney told the posse they were holding Greathouse as a hostage. Carlyle offered to exchange places with Greathouse, and Bonney accepted the offer. Carlyle later attempted to escape by jumping through a window but he was shot three times and killed. The shoot-out ended in a standoff; the posse withdrew and Bonney, Rudabaugh, and Wilson rode away.\n\nA few weeks after the Greathouse incident, Bonney, Rudabaugh, Wilson, Charlie Bowdre, Tom Pickett, and O'Folliard rode into Fort Sumner. Unknown to Bonney and his companions, a posse led by Pat Garrett was waiting for them. The posse opened fire, killing O'Folliard; the rest of the outlaws escaped unharmed.\n\nOn December 13, 1880, Governor Wallace posted a $500 bounty for Bonney's capture. Pat Garrett continued his search for Bonney; on December 23, following the siege in which Bowdre was killed, Garrett and his posse captured Bonney along with Pickett, Rudabaugh and Wilson at Stinking Springs. The prisoners, including Bonney, were shackled and taken to Fort Sumner, then later to Las Vegas, New Mexico. When they arrived on December 26, they were met by crowds of curious onlookers. The following day, an armed mob gathered at the train depot before the prisoners, who were already on board the train with Garrett, departed for Santa Fe. Deputy Sheriff Romero, backed by the angry group of men, demanded custody of Dave Rudabaugh, who had killed a local jailer. Garrett refused to surrender the prisoner, and a tense confrontation ensued until he agreed to let the sheriff and two other men accompany the party to Santa Fe, where they would petition the governor to release Rudabaugh to them. In a later interview with a reporter, Bonney said he was unafraid during the incident, saying, \"if I only had my Winchester I'd lick the whole crowd\". The \"Las Vegas Gazette\" ran a story from a jailhouse interview following Bonney's capture; when the reporter said Bonney appeared relaxed, he replied, \"What's the use of looking on the gloomy side of everything? The laugh's on me this time.\" During his short career as an outlaw, Bonney was the subject of numerous U.S. newspaper articles, some as far away as New York.\n\nAfter arriving in Santa Fe, Bonney, seeking clemency, sent Governor Wallace four letters over the next three months. Wallace refused to intervene, and Bonney went to trial in April 1881 in Mesilla, New Mexico. Following two days of testimony, Bonney was found guilty of Sheriff Brady's murder; it was the only conviction secured against any of the combatants in the Lincoln County War. On April 13, Judge Warren Bristol sentenced Bonney to hang, with his execution scheduled for May 13, 1881. According to legend, upon sentencing, the judge told Bonney he was going to hang until he was \"dead, dead, dead\"; Bonney's response was, \"you can go to hell, hell, hell\". According to the historical record, he did not speak after the reading of his sentence.\n\nFollowing his sentencing, Bonney was moved to Lincoln, where he was held under guard on the top floor of the town courthouse. On the evening of April 28, 1881, while Garrett was in White Oaks collecting taxes, Deputy Bob Olinger took five other prisoners across the street for a meal, leaving James Bell, another deputy, alone with Bonney at the jail. Bonney asked to be taken outside to use the outhouse behind the courthouse; on their return to the jail, Bonney—who was walking ahead of Bell up the stairs to his cell—hid around a blind corner, slipped out of his handcuffs, and beat Bell with the loose end of the cuffs. During the ensuing scuffle, Bonney grabbed Bell's revolver and fatally shot him in the back as Bell tried to get away.\n\nBonney, with his legs still shackled, broke into Garrett's office and took a loaded shotgun left behind by Olinger. Bonney waited at the upstairs window for Olinger to respond to the gunshot that killed Bell and called out to him, \"Look up, old boy, and see what you get\". When Olinger looked up, Bonney shot and killed him. After about an hour, Bonney freed himself from the leg irons with an axe. He obtained a horse and rode out of town; according to some stories he was singing as he left Lincoln.\n\nWhile Bonney was on the run, Governor Wallace placed a new $500 bounty on the fugitive's head. Almost three months after his escape, Garrett, responding to rumors Bonney was in the vicinity of Fort Sumner, left Lincoln with two deputies on July 14, 1881, to question resident Pete Maxwell, a friend of Bonney's. Maxwell, son of land baron Lucien Maxwell, spoke with Garrett the same day for several hours. Around midnight, the pair sat in Maxwell's darkened bedroom when Bonney unexpectedly entered.\n\nAccounts vary as to the course of events; according to the canonical version, as he entered the room, Bonney failed to recognize Garrett due to the poor lighting. Drawing his revolver and backing away, Bonney asked \"¿Quién es? ¿Quién es?\" (Spanish for \"Who is it? Who is it?\"). Recognizing Bonney's voice, Garrett drew his revolver and fired twice. The first bullet struck Bonney in the chest just above his heart, killing him.\n\nA few hours after the shooting, a local justice of the peace assembled a coroner's jury of six people. The jury members interviewed Maxwell and Garrett, and Bonney's body and the location of the shooting were examined. The jury certified the body as Bonney's, and according to a local newspaper, the jury foreman said, \"It was the Kid's' body that we examined\". Bonney was given a wake by candlelight; he was buried the next day and his grave was denoted with a wooden marker.\n\nFive days after Bonney's killing, Garrett traveled to Santa Fe, New Mexico, to collect the $500 reward offered by Governor Lew Wallace for his capture, dead or alive. William G. Ritch, the acting New Mexico governor, refused to pay the reward. Over the next few weeks, the residents of Las Vegas, Mesilla, Santa Fe, White Oaks, and other New Mexico cities raised over $7,000 bounty reward money for Garrett. A year and four days after Bonney's death, the New Mexico territorial legislature passed a special act to grant Garrett the $500 bounty reward promised by Governor Wallace.\n\nBecause people had begun to claim Garrett unfairly ambushed Bonney, Garrett felt the need to tell his side of the story and called upon his friend, journalist Marshall Upson, to ghostwrite a book for him. The book, \"The Authentic Life of Billy, the Kid\", was first published in April 1882. Although only a few copies sold following its release, it eventually became a reference for later historians who wrote about Bonney's life.\n\nOver time, legends claiming that Bonney was not killed, and that Garrett staged the incident and death out of friendship so Bonney could evade the law, formed and grew. During the next fifty years, a number of men claimed they were Billy the Kid. Most of these claims were easily disproven but two have remained topics of discussion and debate.\n\nIn 1948, a central Texas man Ollie P. Roberts—nicknamed Brushy Bill—began claiming he was Billy the Kid and went before New Mexico Governor Thomas Mabry seeking a pardon. Mabry dismissed Roberts' claims, and Roberts died shortly afterwards. Nevertheless, Hico, Texas, Roberts' town of residence, capitalized on his claim by opening a Billy the Kid museum.\n\nJohn Miller, an Arizona man, also claimed he was Bonney. This was unsupported by his family until 1938, some time after his death. Miller's body was buried in the state-owned Arizona Pioneers' Home Cemetery in Prescott, Arizona; in May 2005, Miller's teeth and bones were exhumed and examined, without permission from the state. DNA samples from the remains were sent to a laboratory in Dallas and tested to compare Miller's DNA with blood samples obtained from floorboards in the old Lincoln County courthouse and a bench where Bonney's body allegedly was placed after he was shot. According to a July 2015 article in the Washington Post, the lab results were \"useless\".\n\nIn 2004, researchers sought to exhume the remains of Catherine Antrim, Bonney's mother, whose DNA would be tested and compared with that of the body buried in William Bonney's grave. , her body had not been exhumed.\n\nIn 2007, author and amateur historian Gale Cooper filed a lawsuit against the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office under the state Inspection of Public Records Act to produce records of the results of the 2006 DNA tests and other forensic evidence collected in the Billy the Kid investigations. In April 2012, 133 pages of documents were provided; they offered no conclusive evidence confirming or disproving the generally accepted story of Garret's killing of Bonney,\n\nIn February 2015, historian Robert Stahl petitioned a district court in Fort Sumner asking the state of New Mexico to issue a death certificate for Bonney. In July 2015, Stahl filed suit in the New Mexico Supreme Court. The suit asked the court to order the state's Office of the Medical Investigator to officially certify Bonney's death under New Mexico state law.\n\n, only one photograph confirmed to show Bonney is known to exist; others thought to depict him are disputed.\n\nOne of the few remaining artifacts of Bonney's life is an iconic ferrotype photograph of Bonney by an unknown portrait photographer in late 1879 or early 1880. The image shows Bonney wearing a vest over a sweater, a slouch cowboy hat, and a bandanna, while holding an 1873 Winchester rifle with its butt resting on the floor. For years, this was the only photograph scholars and historians agreed showed Bonney. The ferrotype survived because Bonney's friend Dan Dedrick kept it after the outlaw's death. It was passed down through Dedrick's family, and was copied several times, appearing in numerous publications during the 20th century. In June 2011, the original plate was bought at auction for $2.3 million by businessman William Koch.\n\nThe image shows Bonney wearing his holstered Colt revolver on his left side. This led historians to believe he was left-handed, but they did not take into account that the ferrotype process produces reversed images. In 1954, western historians James D. Horan and Paul Sann wrote that Bonney was \"right-handed and carried his pistol on his right hip\". The opinion was confirmed by Clyde Jeavons, a former curator of the National Film and Television Archive. Several historians have written that Bonney was ambidextrous.\n\nA 4\"x 6\" ferrotype purchased at a memorabilia shop in Fresno, California in 2010 has been claimed to show Bonney and members of the Regulators playing croquet. If authentic it is the only known photo of Billy the Kid and the Regulators together and the only image to feature their wives and female companions.\n\nIn August 2015, Lincoln State Monument officials and the New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs said that despite the new research, they could not confirm that the image showed Bonney or others from the Lincoln County War era, according to Monument manager Gary Cozzens. A photograph curator at the Palace of the Governors archives, Daniel Kosharek, said the image is \"problematic on a lot of fronts\", including the small size of the figures and the lack of resemblance of the background landscape to Lincoln County or the state in general. An article in \"True West Magazine\" said, \"no one in our office thinks this photo is of the Kid [and the Regulators]\".\n\nIn early October 2015, Kagin's, Inc., a numismatic authentication firm, said the image was authentic after a number of experts, including those associated with a recent National Geographic Channel program,\nexamined it.\n\nIn 2010, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson turned down a request for a posthumous pardon of Bonney for the murder of Sheriff William Brady. The pardon considered was to fulfill Governor Lew Wallace's 1879 promise to Bonney. Richardson's decision, citing \"historical ambiguity\", was announced on December 31, 2010; his last day in office.\n\nIn 1931, CharlesW.Foor, an unofficial tour guide at Fort Sumner Cemetery, campaigned to raise funds for a permanent marker for the graves of Bonney, O'Folliard, and Bowdre. As a result of his efforts, a stone memorial marked with the names of the three men and their death dates beneath the word \"Pals\" was erected in the center of the burial area.\n\nIn 1940, stone cutter James N. Warner of Salida, Colorado, made and donated to the cemetery a new marker for Bonney's grave. It was stolen on February 8, 1981, but recovered days later in Huntington Beach, California. New Mexico Governor Bruce King arranged for the county sheriff to fly to California to return it to Fort Sumner, where it was reinstalled in May 1981. Although both markers are behind iron fencing, a group of vandals entered the enclosure at night in June 2012 and tipped the stone over.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40967662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40967662", "title": "Break/fix", "text": "Break/fix\n\nThe term break/fix refers to the fee-for-service method of providing information technology (IT) services to businesses. Using this method an IT solution provider performs services as needed and bills the customer only for the work done. The service may include repairs, upgrades or installation of systems, components, peripheral equipment, networking or software.\n\nThe alternative to break/fix is managed services, which is a service plan, where the customer pays a fixed amount for services covered in the plan and pays additional amounts for repairs or other work which is not covered in the plan. \n\nThe equivalent practice in the consumer market is that of out-of-warranty appliances, where the customer can pay for repairs as needed (break/fix) or they can buy an extended warranty (managed services).\n\nAdvantages:\n\nPossible lower cost (at first).\n\nDisadvantages:\n\nSince problems are only addressed when they arise, maintenance is reactive rather than proactive. Small problems left unaddressed due to shortsightedness because of cost can balloon to major failures.\n\nUnscrupulous providers are incentivized to use inefficient or malicious means to increase break/fix work and thus increase their revenue.\n"}
{"id": "20515628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20515628", "title": "CEEQUAL", "text": "CEEQUAL\n\nCEEQUAL is the international evidence-based sustainability assessment, rating and awards scheme for civil engineering, infrastructure, landscaping and works in public spaces. It was established following work promoted by the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) and operated with a group of 14 industry shareholders. In November 2015 CEEQUAL was acquired by Building Research Establishment (BRE Global Ltd) following a recommendation from the CEEQUAL Board; this move represents a shared ambition to bring together two successful sustainability rating schemes – BREEAM and CEEQUAL – to create a single, science-based best practice standard and certification tool for civil engineering and other infrastructure projects in the UK and around the world. From November, CEEQUAL will transfer its business operations to BRE Global, and CEEQUAL will, after this transfer, be delivered by the BREEAM certification team with continued support from the CEEQUAL scheme management team.\n\nThe acquisition has been prompted by the industry’s desire for a single sustainability rating scheme that addresses the challenges that Infrastructure clients, professions and contractors currently face in delivering more sustainable and resilient infrastructure. The new scheme will also address the need for integration with building related schemes so that clients with mixed developments can have a single combined rating for their asset. The new single combined scheme will help to deliver enhanced environmental and social benefits for civil engineering works and better economic outcomes that benefit society.\n\nCEEQUAL encourages and promotes the attainment of high economic, environmental and social performance in all forms of civil engineering through identifying and applying best practice. It aims to assist clients, designers and contractors to deliver improved sustainability performance and strategy in a project or contract, during specification, design and construction. The scheme rewards project and contract teams who go beyond the legal, environmental and social minima to achieve distinctive environmental and social performance in their work.\n\nPrior to the recent acquisition by BRE, CEEQUAL was developed by a team led by the ICE, with government financial support from the DETR and DTI Partners in Innovation schemes, and from the ICE's Research & Development Enabling Fund. \nThe development of CEEQUAL was managed by Crane Environmental Ltd., and received support and participation from relevant government departments and agencies, professional and industry associations, and civil engineering consultants and contractors.\n\nFollowing industry-wide consultation and trialling, the scheme was launched in September 2003 and the first eight Awards presented at the ICE.\n\nSince then, CEEQUAL has become the UK industry scheme for assessing environmental and sustainability performance in civil engineering and public realm projects, and is now widely used by major civil engineering clients, designers and contractors. In June 2008 CEEQUAL was recognised by HM Government's report, \"Strategy for Sustainable Construction\" as an initiative helping to 'drive forward' the Government’s design agenda for civil engineering and infrastructure projects. The total construction value of all projects assessed or in process of being assessed under CEEQUAL reached the £6 billion mark in autumn 2008. By 2015 the civil engineering value of work that has been or is currently being assessed exceeds £25 billion.\n\nThe scheme uses a points-scoring-based assessment, which is applicable to any civil engineering or public realm project. The scheme is made up of 200 questions within the CEEQUAL Manual relating to environmental and social aspects of a project such as the use of water, energy and land, impacts on ecology, landscape, neighbours, archaeology, as well as waste minimisation and management, and community relations and amenity. Awards are made to projects in which the clients, designers and constructors have gone beyond the legal and environmental minima, to achieve distinctive environmental standards of performance.\n\nProject assessments are self-assessments carried out by an Assessor from within any part of a project team, or contracted in, who must have been trained by CEEQUAL. CEEQUAL also appoints a trained Verifier to the project, who is independent of the project team and acts to support the Assessor and provide validation of the completed assessment and subsequent Award.\nThe first step involves the Assessor and Verifier agreeing which questions are not relevant to the project and should be scoped out. The project is then assessed against the remaining question set. The Assessor completes the assessment by gathering the appropriate supporting evidence and completing a Scoring Spreadsheet. This is then submitted to the Verifier, together with the supporting evidence, for review and approval. Once the Verifier is satisfied with the assessment, the Scoring Spreadsheet is submitted to CEEQUAL for ratification, and a CEEQUAL Award certificate is issued.\n\nThere are several different CEEQUAL Award levels that a project can achieve, depending on the percentage number of points scored against the scoped-out question set. These are:\n\n\nFive types of award can be applied for:\n\n\nFor larger or long-term projects an Interim (Client & Outline Design) Award is assessed en route to a final Whole Project Award.\n\nThe \"CEEQUAL Assessment Manual for Projects\" contains the 200 questions that comprise the CEEQUAL scheme and against which projects are assessed. The Manual also contains background information and references, guidance on scoring and scoping out, and examples of what is considered appropriate evidence. The question set is split into the following 12 topic areas:\n\n\nIn November 2008, Version 4 of the CEEQUAL Manual was launched. This provided a significant update to previous versions, including new questions specifically targeting carbon emissions and whole-life-cycle carbon analysis.\n\nThe CEEQUAL Manual should be read in conjunction with the \"Scheme Description and Process Handbook\", which introduces the process of a CEEQUAL assessment and acts as a 'how to' guide for the Manual.\n\nSome of the civil engineering projects to have achieved CEEQUAL Awards\n\nBridges\n\nPublic realm\n\n\nRail\n\nRiver / coastal defence structures\n\nRoads\n\nWater supply & sewerage\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45483709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45483709", "title": "Caracol", "text": "Caracol\n\nCaracol is the name given to a large ancient Maya archaeological site, located in what is now the Cayo District of Belize. It is situated approximately 40 kilometres south of Xunantunich and the town of San Ignacio Cayo, and 15 kilometers away from the Macal River. It rests on the Vaca Plateau at an elevation of 500 meters above sea-level, in the foothills of the Maya Mountains. Long thought to be a tertiary center, it is now known that the site was one of the most important regional political centers of the Maya Lowlands during the Classic Period. Caracol covered approximately 200 square kilometers, covering an area much larger than present-day Belize City (the largest metropolitan area in the country) and supported more than twice the modern city's population.\n\n\"Caracol\" is a modern name from \"snail, shell\", but more generally meaning spiral- or volute-shaped— apparently on account of the winding access road that led to the site. Local tour guides say that the nickname \"Caracol\" originates from the large population of snails present on the site. Researchers would say to go to \"that one place with all the snails\", and this eventually developed into just referring to it as \"Caracol\". When visiting the site you will see that snails are quite literally everywhere. Its ancient name has been reconstructed from the Emblem Glyph popular among its early rulers - Ux Witz Ajaw, or “Three Hills Lord”. The full name of Caracol would be \"Three-Hills Water,\" read Oxwitza', Uxwitza’ or, Hispanicised, \"Oxhuitza\". This place name may also reference the Three Stone Place of creation.\n\nThe site was first reported by a native logger named Rosa Mai, who came across its remains in 1937 while searching for mahogany hardwood trees to exploit. Mai reported the site to the archaeological commission for British Honduras, today Belize. In 1938 the archaeological commissioner, A. H. Anderson visited the site for two weeks along with a colleague H. B. Jex [Hugh Blockley Jex - who later became Inspector of Crown Licence]. It was Anderson who gave the site its modern name. They conducted preliminary surveys, noted 9 carved monuments, took notes on the structures of the A Group Plaza, and undertook limited excavations in two locations. A. H. Anderson and Linton Satterthwaite later discovered 40 stone monuments.\n\nThe site was first noted and documented archaeologically in 1937 by A. H. Anderson. More extensive explorations and documentation of the site was undertaken by Linton Satterthwaite of the University Museum at the University of Pennsylvania from 1950 to 1953. During this time Satterthwaite primarily focused on finding and documenting monuments, later removing several stelae and altars to the University Museum. In the early 1980s, Paul Healy of Trent University investigated Caracol's core area, recording several architectural groups, and noting the extensive terrace systems and high population density for the surrounding area.\n\nThe Caracol Archaeological Project (ongoing every year since 1985) is directed by Arlen and Diane Chase of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), United States. The 1988-1989 field seasons researched the southeast section of the site, between the Conchita and Pajaro-Romonal Causeways, to determine the impact of the Tikal-Naranjo wars. From 1994 to 1996, the project focused investigations in the northeast section of the site (near the Puchituk terminus) which showed great time depth dating to the Middle Preclassic, and on the growth and cohesion of the site during Caracol's two major periods of aggression. In the spring dry season of 2009 they conducted a LiDAR survey with an aircraft that allowed a very rapid assessment of the entire site and surrounds, mapping 200 square kilometers, with results published in May 2010.\n\nThe only road Caracol may be accessed by is paved for the last 16km (10 miles) and leads to the Western Highway between San Ignacio and Belmopan and to Santa Elena.\n\nCaana (\"sky-palace\") is the largest building at Caracol and one of the largest man-made structures in Belize.\n\nAt Caracol, there are approximately 267 structures per square kilometer, 85% higher than Tikal. The site covers approximately 200 square kilometers, and within this area, structures are generally situated equidistantly and are integrated with the terrace system. The town grew into one of the largest ancient Maya cities, covering some 177 km² with an estimated population of over 100,000 with settlement focused along the many radiating causeways (potentially peaking between 120,000 and up to 180,000)\n\nThe Caracol area was occupied as early as 1200 BC, yet occupation in the epicentral area was no earlier than 650 BC and lasted no later than AD 950. Caracol boasts 53 carved stone monuments (25 stelae and 28 altars), and more than 250 burials and 200 caches.\n\nBy the Early Classic (between AD 250 and 550) Caracol was tied into extensive trade networks and pan-lowland ideological systems, leading to a unified regional economy The Caracol was officially founded in AD 331 (8.14.13.10.4) by Te’ K’ab Chaak. Special Deposit C117F-1, a Teotihuacan style cremation of three individuals dates precisely to this period, indicating early influences from northern Mexico \n\nCaracol was at first a client state of the more powerful city of Tikal, 76 km to the northwest. Tikal's influence weakened during the mid-sixth century; losing control of Naranjo, located halfway between the two cities (42 km from each site), to rival Calakmul. In AD 531, Lord K'an I acceded to the throne. Lord Water (Yajaw Te' K'inich II) acceded to power in AD 553 under the auspices of Tikal's Lord Double Bird (Wak Chan K'awiil). Then, in AD 556, Tikal enacted a ch’ak (axe) war and defeated Caracol. This caused Lord Water to enact the first known star war in 562 (9.6.8.4.2), and defeated Tikal's Lord Wak Chan K’awiil (Double Bird). These poorly understood conflicts are usually associated with long hiatuses and the fall of dynasties. The name comes from the glyph, which shows a star (presumably Venus) pouring liquid on the earth. This particular star-war was the cause of the archaeologically and epigraphically demonstrated Tikal mid-Classic hiatus, which saw a decline in Tikal's population, a cessation of monument erection, and the destruction of certain monuments in the Great Plaza. This 120-year-long hiatus at Tikal occurred as Caracol's population and monumental construction increased, becoming more prosperous and cohesive. Tikal took on cultural characteristics of Caracol during this time as, even with the renewed erection of monuments at Tikal, their style mimicked that of Caracol.\n\nYajaw Te’ K’inich II passed on his throne to the eldest of his two sons, Knot Ajaw, in AD 599; his younger brother K’an II succeeded him in AD 618. K'an II performed a ritual of alliance in Calakmul's territory the following January (9.9.5.13.8). K’an II is described as the most successful Caracol ruler. Reigning for 40 years from AD 618 to 658, he expanded the causeway system and saw an increase in the site's population.\n\nIn AD 627 (9.9.14.3.5), Lord Kan II attacked Caracol's sometime ally Naranjo in a hubi (destruction) war. He attacked again in 628, and sacrificed its king. He then led a star-war against Naranjo in AD 631 (9.9.18.16.3). He did it a fourth time in 636. In AD 637, he celebrated his first reigning k’atun by dedicating the Hieroglyphic Stairway at Naranjo itself.\n\nBeginning in AD 636, there was a building boom at Caracol at the conclusion of the Tikal-Naranjo wars. Entering the Late Classic period, the site still demonstrated widespread cohesion. During this time Caracol also had a unique burial pattern, focusing on multiple burials in special chambers. This pattern is seen spreading out through the Peten region likely controlled by Caracol, although this spread is independent of other material cultural indicators (like caching practices). K’an II commissioned more monuments than any other ruler, and ushered in the ‘golden age’ of Caracol.\n\nTwenty nine days before his death, Kan II ‘witnessed’ the accession of his successor, K’ahk’ Ujol K’inich II on 9.11.5.14.0 – AD 658. During K’ahk’ Ujol K’inich II's reign, Caracol was defeated in a star-war by Naranjo, whose only monuments appear at La Rejolla.\n\nLasting from AD 702 (Stela 21) to 798 (Ballcourt Marker 3), this period lacks any hieroglyphic texts. Archaeologically, this period is correlated with an increase in site-wide prosperity. After the AD 798 date, the site core is still prosperous, yet shows less cohesion between the centre and outlying areas.\n\nWarfare associated with K’inich Joy K'awil on Stela 11 (erected AD 800) indicates the capture of eight captives. In 800 CE, K’inich Joy K'awiil captured the lord of Ucanal. Caana was also refinished during this period.\n\nK’inich Toobil Yopaat's accession date is not certain (c. AD 804), but he erected five or six monuments, and seems to have repaired relations with Ucanal. In AD 820, he enacted an axe war against Tikal.\n\nEvidence suggests that Caracol weathered the initial part of the Maya collapse. Through symbolic egalitarianism, it seems that the majority of the Late Classic population had access to ‘elite’ material goods. However, the transition to the Terminal Classic sees a shift away from symbolic egalitarianism, when the elite developed their own ceramic traditions and had access to goods no longer available to the populace.\n\nThe last recorded date at Caracol is AD 859 – 10.1.10.0.0, on Stele 10. Caana's abandonment dates to approximately AD 900; several other structures have occupation that dates to the Terminal Classic period. Structure A6 was abandoned in AD 1050, and marks the final abandonment of the site.\n\nStela 1\nStela 2\nStela 3\nStela 4\nStela 5\nStela 6\nStela 7\nStela 8\nStela 9\nStela 10\nStela 11\nStela 12\nStela 13\nStela 14\nStela 15\nStela 16\nStela 17\nStela 18\nStela 19\nStela 20\nStela 21\nStela 22\nStela 23\nStela 24\nAltar 1\nAltar 2\nAltar 3\nAltar 4\nAltar 5\nAltar 6\nAltar 7\nAltars 8 and 9\nAltar 10\nAltar 11\nAltar 12\nAltar 13\nAltar 14\nAltar 15\nAltar 16\nAltar 17\nAltar 18\nAltar 19\nAltar 21\nAltar 22\nAltar 23\nAltar 24\nBallcourt Markers 1 and 2\nBallcourt Marker 3\nBallcourt Marker 4\n\n1200 BC – 250 AD\nPreclassic small sedentary villages followed by development of monumentality and larger centers.\n\nc. 600–900 BC\nEarliest archaeologically known habitation at Caracol proper\n\nc. AD 70\nStructure A6-1st, \"Temple of the Wooden Lintel,\" constructed and consecrated; locus B34 burial; full Maya ritual complex present at Caracol.\n\nc. AD 150\nElaborate burial placed in Structure B34 locus.\n\nAD 250–900\nClassic \"Peak\" of Maya civilization; pyramids, tombs, inscriptions, widespread trade; by AD 800 Maya \"collapse\" is underway.\n\nc. AD 330\nTeotihuacan style cremation with three people (S.D. C117F-1) placed in the plaza of the Northeast Acropolis \n\nAD 331 (8.14.13.10.4)\nCaracol Royal dynasty \"officially\" founded by Te’ K’ab Chaak (Tree Branch Rain God), Caracol's dynastic progenitor\n\nAD 400 (8.18.4.4.14)\nStela 20 dedicated\n\nc. AD 480\nUnknown ruler's tomb placed in Structure D16.\n\nAD 484 (9.2.9.0.16)\nAccession of Lord Yajaw Te’ K’inich I\n\nAD 495 (9.3.0.0.0)\nAltar 4 dedicated\n\nAD 504 (9.3.10.0.0)\nAltar 19 dedicated\n\nAD 514 (9.4.0.0.0)\nAltar 7 and Stela 13 dedicated\n\nAD 531 (9.4.16.13.3)\nAccession of K’an I\n\nAD 534 (9.5.0.0.0)\nDedication of Altars 3 (?) and 14, and Stela 13\n\nAD 537\nUse of initial tomb in Structure B20-3rd.\n\nAD 553 (9.5.19.1.2)\nAccession of Caracol Ruler Lord Water (Yajaw Te’ K’inich II)\n\nAD 554 (9.6.0.0.0)\nAltar 5 and Stela 14 dedicated\n\nAD 556 (9.6.5.1.11) \nTikal exacted a ch’ak (axe) war on Caracol; Tikal wins upper hand in this first war at Caracol.\n\nAD 562 (9.6.8.4.2)\n\"Star-War\" defeat of Tikal Lord Wak Chan K’awiil by Caracol\n\nAD 566\nBatz Ek born\n\nAD 573 (9.7.0.0.0)\nDedication of Altars 6, 24 and Stela 15\n\nAD 575 (9.7.2.0.3)\nBirth of Knot Ahau\n\nAD 577\nOne of three tombs in Structure B20-2nd used.\n\nAD 577 or 582\nFront tomb in Structure A34 consecrated\n\nAD 583 (9.7.10.0.0)\nStela 4 dedicated\n\nAD 588 (9.7.14.10.8)\nBirth of Caracol Ruler Kan II.\n\nAD 593 (9.8.0.0.0)\nAltar 1 and Stela 1 erected\n\nAD 599 (9.8.5.16.12)\nAccession of Caracol Lord Knot Ahau.\n\nAD 603 (9.8.10.0.0)\nStela 6 dedicated\n\nAD 613 (9.9.0.0.0)\nAltars 15 and 11, and Stela 5 dedicated\n\nAD 614\nTomb in Structure L3-2nd covered.\n\nAD 618 (9.9.4.16.2)\nAccession of Kan II.\n\nAD 626 and 628 (9.9.13.4.4)\nNaranjo defeated in two Hubi war events; major expansion of Caracol follows.\n\nAD 631 (9.9.18.16.3)\nCaracol wins Star-War against Naranjo; texts erected at Naranjo celebrating Caracol lords\n\nAD 633 (9.10.0.0.0)\nAltar 21 and Stela 7 dedicated\n\nAD 634\nWoman's tomb in Structure B19-2nd closed.\n\nAD 652 (9.11.0.0.0)\nStela 3 dedicated\n\nAD 658 (9.11.5.15.9)\nDeath of Kan II. Accession of Lord Smoke Skull (K’ahk’ Ujol K’inich II) who is only known from monuments at La Rejolla\n\nAD 680 (9.12.7.14.1)\nNaranjo gains independence in star war.\n\nAD 696\nTomb in Structure A3-1st covered\n\nAD 702 (9.13.10.0.0)\nStela 21 erected and capture of Ixkun lord noted\nBeginning of Caracol's epigraphic hiatus (AD 702–798)\n\nAD 790 (9.18.0.0.0)\nWarfare associated with K’inich Joy K'awil on Stela 11 (erected AD 800), indicating the capture of eight people (two of which are shown on Altar 23, and another on Stela 17); potential erection date for Altar 3 (?)\n\nAD 799 (9.18.9.5.9)\nAccession of Lord K’inich Joy K’awiil\n\nAD 800 (9.18.10.0.0)\nErection of Stela 11 and Altar 23\nCapture of 3 prisoners, including Ucanal lord, by Caracol Ruler Joy K'awiil\n\nAD 804 (9.18.13.10.19)\nPotential accession of K’inich Toobil Yopaat\n\nAD 810 (9.19.0.0.0)\nStelae 8, 9, and 18 erected\n\nAD 820 (9.19.10.0.0)\nAltars 12, 13, and Stela 19 dedicated \nCh’ak event against k’ul mutul (probably Tikal) recorded on Altar 12\n\nAD 830 (10.0.0.0.0)\nAltar 16 dedicated\n\nAD 849 (10.1.0.0.0)\nAltar 18 and Stela 17 dedicated\n\nAD 859 (10.1.10.0.0)\nLast recorded date at Caracol on Stela 10.\n\nAD 900-1500\nCaracol centre abandoned entering the Postclassic. Most major sites are located away from Classic Period centres, but near water. Sites are generally characterized by low-lying as opposed to monumental architecture.\n\nc. AD 1050\nLast use of Caracol Structure A6; Caracol totally abandoned.\n\nAD 1500–present\n\"Historic\" era begins when Europeans arrive in the New World; most native Maya populations decimated by disease; others disrupted by warfare and forced population movements. Native populations still comprise over 50% of Guatemala and Yucatán.\n\nNote that this list is not continuous, as the epigraphic record is incomplete.\n\n\nTe’ K’ab Chaak (Tree Branch Rain God) is the dynastic progenitor of Caracol, yet is only known from two Late Classic back dated texts. One places him at AD 331, and the second at AD 349.\n\nK’ahk’ Ujol K’inich I (also known as Ruler I, or Smoking Skull I) appears on the 6th century genealogical text of Stela 16, but his place in the line of reigning lords is unknown. His reign has been estimated to be circa AD 470. He may have been the father of Yajaw Te’ K’inich I.\n\nYajaw Te’ K’inich I acceded to rulership in AD 484 (9.2.9.0.16), and is known from Stela 13, which records his celebration of the 4th K’atun in AD 514. His monuments include Stela 13 and Altar 4. He is the father of K’an I.\n\nK'an I (also known as Ruler II) is the son of Yajaw Te’ K’inich I, and acceded his father in AD 531 – 9.4.16.13.3. Stela 15 text gives his parentage statement, and tells that his accession was overseen by a ‘higher authority,’ either another lord or a divine being. His monuments include Stela 16 (which includes his parentage statement) and Altar 14.\n\nYajaw Te' K'inich II (also known as Lord Water), son of K’an I and named after his grandfather, acceded to power in AD 553 - 9.5.19.1.2. His monuments include Stelae 1, 4(?), 14, and Altars 1, 6, and 24. His first monument, Stela 14, records the K’atun ending in AD 554 (9.6.0.0.0). As told on Altar 21, Yajaw Te’ K’inich II's accession takes place under the auspices of the Tikal Lord Wak Chan K’awiil. He erected Stela 1 and Altar 1 to mark his last K’atun ending of 9.8.0.0.0, and four years later he is referenced as ‘seeing’ the 9.8.10.0.0 ending. He is mentioned in the fragmentary text on Stela 23. In AD 562 – 9.6.8.4.2 he enacted the first recorded star war against Tikal and Lord Wak Chan K’awiil. h. Yajaw Te' K'inich II's two sons, Knot Ajaw and Kan II, rule after him.\n\nKnot Ajaw, born in AD 575 (9.7.2.0.3), succeeded his father Yajaw Te’ K’inich II in AD 599. Erected Stelae 5, 6, and 7 (?) to the west of Structure A13, as well as dedicated Altars 11(?) and 15. He was the half-brother of K’an II.\n\nK’an II is described as the most successful Caracol ruler. Reigning for 40 years from AD 618 to 658, he expanded the causeway system and saw an increase in the site's population. Born as Sak Witzil Baah (“White First Hill”, or “White Gopher Hill”) in AD 588, he took his grandfather's name at his accession. He was the half-brother of Knot Ajaw, and was thus always stressing his legitimacy by referencing his mother (who may be Batz’ Ek’). It is interesting that he never references the rule of his brother Knot Ajaw in any of his monuments, even those that describe his dynastic predecessors. He also seems to have developed diplomatic contacts with the Snake polity, with whom he coordinated the war with Naranjo, which began in 626, and ended with the defeat of Naranjo in 631. His monuments include Stelae 3, 22, Altars 2, 7, 17,19, and 21, and potentially the Hieroglyphic Stairway and Panel 1 from Naranjo.\n\nK’ahk’ Ujol K’inich II (also known as Smoking Skull II, or Ruler VI) succeeded K’an II in AD 658, but as he has no surviving parentage statements, we cannot be certain that he is K’an II's son. His only monument appears at La Rejolla, and only two stucco texts from Caana (Structures B16-sub and B18). One of these texts shows that in AD 680, Caracol was the victim of a star war from Naranjo (also called Naranjo's war of Independence). Martin and Grube suggest that this action drove K’ahk’ Ujol K’inich from Caracol, at which time he may have fled to La Rejolla 12 km to the northwest. The remainder of this text has not been excavated. This star war event seems to have launched Caracol's epigraphic hiatus, which continues for 96 years, until AD 798.\n\nRuler VII reigned during the epigraphic hiatus, and erected only one stela (Stela 21) dated to AD 702 (9.13.10.0.0). One candidate for this ruler comes from Naj Tunich, some 46 km to the south. In one of the cave's chambers dated to AD 692 is a text referring to a Caracol elite named Tz’ayaj K’ajk’, who carries the emblem glyph, but not the k’inich ajaw prefix.\n\nTum Yohl K’inich (also called Ruler VIII) is as enigmatic as Ruler VII. He likewise appears in the Naj Tunich, and also lacks the k’inich ajaw prefix, leaving his royal status in question. In this text, he performs a fire-bearing ritual under the supervision of a lord of Ixkun; an unnamed lord of Calakmul is also involved. All other appearances of his name occur in later retrospective texts like Altar 23, which lists him as a 3 K’atun lord, and the captor of two lords from Ucanal and Bital.\n\nK’inich Joy K’awiil began a revival of the Caracol polity with his accession in AD 799 (9.18.9.5.9). He commissioned the B-Group Ballcourt, the markers of which date back to the dynastic founder Te’ K’ab Chaak. Stela 11 shows Tum Yohl K’inich in an ambiguous relationship to Joy K’awiil, which may show that he is the latter's father, or as suggested by Altar 23 potentially a relative in a high-ranking military position.\n\nK’inich Toobil Yopaat’s (also known as Ruler X and XI) accession date is not certain, but he erected five (possibly six) monuments (**Stelae 18, 19, Altars 12, 13), and seems to have repaired relations with Ucanal. This new relationship is depicted on Altars 12 and 13, as well as on stucco text from Structure B18.\n\nK’an III is little known, and he erected three monuments.\n\nRuler XIII is the last known lord of Caracol, and erected only one monument: Stela 10. Stela 10 is a carved all glyphic monument which may commemorate the half-K’atun 10.1.10.0.0 (AD 859).\n\nA Group Plaza\n\"Structure A1\"\n\"Structure A2\"\n\"Structure A3\"\n\"Structure A5\"\n\"Structure A6\"\n\"Structure A8\"\n\nStructure A10\nA Group Ballcourt (Structures A11 and A12)\nStructure A13\n\nB Group Plaza\n\"Caana\" (B14-B20, B36, B37)\n\"Structure B18\"\n\"Structure B19\"\n\nStructures B8 and B9\n\nBarrio (B21-B26)\n\"Structure B21\" \n\"Structure B25\" \n\"Structure B26\"\n\nStructure B28\n\nThe Northeast Acropolis (B30-B34)\n\"Structure B30\"\n\"Structure B31\"\n\"Structure B32\" \n\"Structure B33\"\n\"Structure B34\"\n\n\"C Group Plaza\"\n\"Structure B59\"\n\"Structure I20\"\n\nCulebras Residential Group\n\"Structure C20\"\n\nSouth Acropolis\n\"Structure D4\"\n\"Structure D5\"\n\"Structure D7\"\n\"Structure D9\"\n\"Structure D11\"\n\"Structure D12\"\nStructure D14\n\"Structure D16\"\n\"Structure D17\"\n\"Structure D18\"\n\nStructure F2\n\nAlta/Baja Vista Residential Complex\n\"Structure F33\"\n\"Structure F36\"\n\"Structure F39\"\n\"Structure F41\"\n\nSaraguate\n\nRetiro\n\nCeiba\n\nOther Maya sites within the Cayo district include Xunantunich, Cahal Pech, and Chaa Creek.\n\n\n2004 Searching for Support Staff and Kitchens: Continued Investigation of Small Structures in Caracol's Epicenter: 2004 Field Report of the Caracol Archaeological Project. http://caracol.org/reports/2004.php, accessed October 17, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "210433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210433", "title": "Commercial art", "text": "Commercial art\n\nCommercial art is the art of creative services, referring to art created for commercial purposes, primarily advertising. Commercial art uses a variety of platforms (magazines, websites, apps, television, etc.) for viewers with the intent of promoting sale and interest of products, services, and ideas. It relies on the iconic image (pictorial representations that are recognized easily to members of a culture) to enhance recall and favorable recognition for a product or service. An example of a product could be a magazine ad promoting a new soda through complimentary colors, a catchy message, and appealing illustrative features. Another example could be promoting the prevention of global warming by encouraging people to walk or ride a bike instead of driving in an eye catching poster. It communicates something specific to an audience.\n\nPeople can obtain training, certifications, and degrees that incorporate commercial arts in many exercises, activities, and programs.\n\nCommercial artists have the ability to organize information and knowledge of fine arts, visualization and media in a way to reach an audience's attention. Some of these skills may include the following:\n\n\nCommercial art can include many genres of art and categories of art technique, including:\n\n\nCommercial art is art that is created for commercial purposes to promote services, products, and ideas to viewers. In the process of creating commercial art, an audience is taken into consideration when designing and/or forming the goods that are being advertised/promoted. An example of this can be seen in the recognized works of American painter and consumer ad designer, Andy Warhol. Using Campbell's soup and Coca-Cola bottles as everyday products of consumers, he recreated a visually stimulating design through pop art that advertises the products through consumption habits of consumers. Consumerism was present when pop art was popular. Pop art could contain mass cultural objects and/or celebrities (popular culture and mass media) to endorse markets and goods.\n"}
{"id": "31121305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31121305", "title": "Conservation and restoration of metals", "text": "Conservation and restoration of metals\n\nConservation and restoration of metals is the activity devoted to the protection and preservation of historical (religious, artistic, technical and ethnographic) and archaeological objects made partly or entirely of metal. In it are included all activities aimed at preventing or slowing deterioration of items, as well as improving accessibility and readability of them as objects of cultural heritage. Despite the fact that metals are generally considered as the relatively permanent and stable materials, in contact with the environment they deteriorate gradually, some faster and some much slower. This applies especially to archaeological finds.\n\nIt is very important that a conservator of metals has knowledge of basic metalworking techniques, history of metalwork, history of art, archaeology, corrosion of metals, scientific research methods, theory and ethics of conservation-restoration.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn essential cause of deterioration is corrosion of metal objects or object deterioration by interaction with the environment. As the most influential factors of deterioration of historical objects should be pointed out as the relative humidity and air pollution while in archaeological objects a crucial role has composition, depth, humidity and amount of gasses in the soil. In cases of marine or fresh water finds the most important factors of decay are the amount and composition of soluble salts, water depth, amount of dissolved gases, the direction of water currents and the role of both microscopic and macroscopic living organisms.\n\nAssociated materials deteriorate depending on the origin whether they are organic or inorganic materials. Organic materials usually fail in a relatively short period of time, primarily due to biodegradation. With inorganic materials are these processes considerably longer and more complex. Amount of gases, humidity, depth and composition of soil are very important. In case of salty and sweet water finds essential are amount of gases dissolved in water, depth of water, direction of currents, and microscopic and macroscopic living organisms.\n\n\n\nAs with the conservation and restoration works on any other material, here are the basic tenets of conservation-restoration based on the quality of execution and the best possible preservation of cultural, historical and technological identity and integrity of objects. Minimal intervention, reversibility and repeatability of preferred treatment are essential, as well as the possibility of easy identification of restored parts. Recently non-toxic nature of used materials and procedures becomes important too, both in relation to objects and conservator-restorer as a performer, but also in relation to the environment.\n\nNowadays scientific research is an integral part of the metals conservation treatment, at least in highly developed countries.\n\n\n\nRaman spectroscopy\n\n\nIn preparing the strategy of the metals conservation project interdisciplinary approach to the same is essential. It implies the participation of as many experts as is possible, as a minimum, we can take curator (archaeologist, historian, art historian), scientists specialized for corrosion of metallic objects of cultural heritage and the conservator - restorer.\n\nSystematic and well-managed documentation is today an essential prerequisite for quality executed conservation and restoration treatments, including documentation of the state of objects before, during and after treatment. Identification of materials and procedures used to produce object and the results of any scientific research must be part of documentation too. Last but not least- an integral part of the documentation must be a recommendation for further care of object.\n\nThe ethical concept of conservation of metal objects in principle is the same as those in other fields of conservation-restoration of cultural heritage.\n\nBut there are several specific problems that can only be found in the conservation of metals - problem of heat treatment of archaeological objects, and the problem of radical restoration of historic, mostly technical, but also architectonic objects too.\n\nWhile in the first case problem is primarily in the destruction of valuable scientific data, in case of the technical, the architectural, and somewhat less often, historical objects problem is that a radically restored items just simulate the original appearance of the object, and so in some ways that objects can be considered even as, more or less successful fakes, which only superficially simulate long-lost or never existing state of object.\n\nAccording to the above-mentioned, whenever it is possible real historical substance must be preserved. Thoroughly documented and technically professionally executed restoration of objects, must be avoided because such objects must be seen only as freshly painted surrogates of authentic historic substance.\n\nEthical problems connected with conservation of sacred metallic heritage objects can be included too.\n\nMetallic heritage objects are sensitive to environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity, air pollution and exposure to light and ultraviolet light. They must be protected in a controlled environment where such variables are maintained within a range of damage-limiting levels.\n\nPreventive conservation, also known as collections care, is an important element of museum policy. It is an essential responsibility of members of the museum profession to create and maintain a protective environment for the collections in their care, whether in store, on display, or in transit. A museum should carefully monitor the condition of collections to determine when an artifact requires conservation work and the services of a qualified conservator.\n\nThe most common procedure in conservation and restoration of metals is the cleaning process. This process can be distinguish between mechanical, chemical, electrochemical, ultrasonic, plasma and laser cleaning. In principle, it is aimed at removing dirt and corrosion products from the surface of a metal object. In many cases archaeology objects only can be cleaned mechanically.\n\nAimed at strengthening of the physical structure of the object, and correcting the shape of the object.\n\nIn certain cases, metals conservator must re-create the lost parts of objects or restore original surface decoration. This approach is accurate only if we have an exact documentation or photographs of items in a complete, currently non-existent state that we want to return.\n\nNew parts must be clearly and visibly marked and at least they must be minimally different from the original historic material.\n\nIf needed, those parts must be easily and completely removable from the object, and with methods which will not harm it.\nOnly cyanide or hexchromate free processes must be used.\n\nOnly worn-out spots can be replated.\n\nReplating of entire object must be avoided.\n\nFocused on slowing of deterioration of objects – in the case of archaeology objects the thorough removal or blocking of chloride salts. In case of the historical objects it is focused on the use of corrosion inhibitors, conversion coatings, rust converters or eventually oxygen free storage.\nStill mainly focused on use of clear coats and waxes, in case of technology objects oil coatings can be used too. In general it supports the stabilization process.\nParaloid B-72 \n\ndurable and non-yellowing acrylic resin, chemically an ethyl methacrylate copolymer. It can be used for conservation of metals. Soluble in acetone, toluene, xylene, Shell Cyclo Sol® 100/Shell Cyclo Sol® 53, Arcosolv® PM/1-Methoxy-2-propanol.\n\nParaloid B 67\nis acrylic resin, chemically it is an isobutyl methacrylate polymer. Soluble in toluene, xylene, acetone, Shell Cyclo Sol® 100/Shell Cyclo Sol® 53, Arcosolv® PM/1-Methoxy-2-propanol and white spirit acetone mixture (90 parts white spirit/10 parts acetone).\n\nParaloid B 44\n\nis acrylic resin, chemically it is composed of methyl methacrylate and ethyl acrylate copolymer. Soluble in toluene, xylene, acetone. It is used for paints and clear coating for metals. It is ingredient in Incralac metal coating.\n\nParaloid B 48 N\n\nis acrylic resin, chemically it is copolymer of methyl methacrylate and butyl acrylate. It is used as a clear coating for metals - copper, brass, bronze, and zinc. Soluble in toluene, xylene, methyl ethyl ketone, and acetone\n\nIncralac\n\nis special proprietary clear coat for copper and its alloys. It is based on Paraloid B 44 acryilic resin dissolved in toluene. It contains benzotriazole as copper corrosion inhibitor too.\n\nNitrocellulose lacquer\n\nis solvent-based lacquer that contain nitrocellulose, a resin obtained from the nitration of cotton and other cellulostic materials. Can be used on silver objects. Frigilene, Agateen No.27 and Perlitol RE 1260 are good brands.\n\nORMOCER\n\nOrganically modified ceramic, also known as ORMOCER (ORganically MOdified CERamic) is a type of coating used in the conservation of metals. ORMOCER was originally developed by the Fraunhofer Society for the Advancement of Applied Research in Munich. While it is still in research phase, ORMOCER is essentially a heteropolysiloxane-based clear coat.\n\nOther used varnishes or lacquers that would be worthwhile to examine: \n\nPantarol A (German product) – the use of it is mentioned in German literature; according to the manufacturer it is a special acrylic coating for metal \n\nEverbrite ProtectaClear Coating, Everbrite Coating (US products) - worthwhile to be tested, according to manufacturer product is easily removable from treated objects \nPermalac(US product) \n\nRenaissance Wax\n\nis a brand of microcrystalline wax polish that is widely encountered in antique restoration and museum curation. Although not appropriate for all materials, it is known to and used by almost every collection. It is also used as a primary finish for cabinetry and furniture. Renaissance wax is also used by reenactors of historic swordsmanship to protect armour and weapons. It is widely recognised that this substance is more protective and longer lasting than oil, especially for swords and helmets that are frequently touched by human hands.\n\nTo quote a typical commercial supplier of conservation materials, it is used, to revive and protect valuable furniture, leather, paintings, metals, marble, onyx, ivory etc. Freshens colours and imparts a soft sheen\n\nCosmolloid 80 H\n\nis refined white microcrystalline wax. It can be used on historical and archaeological metals. Melting point 60–94 °C. Soluble in benzol, ether, chloroform, carbon disulfide, carbon tetrachloride, turpentine, petroleum distillates, and fixed oils; partially soluble in acetone, diacetone alcohol. Main ingredient in Renaissance Wax.\n\nTeCero Wachs 30410\n\nis a German brand of microcrystalline wax.\nDinitrol 4010\n\nis a long-term engine protection proprietary product with heat resistance up to 200 °C. It leaves a firm transparent film with short drying time and good adhesion and flexibility on all metal surfaces, rubber and plastic parts. Dinitrol 4010 is resistant to alkali and acidic solutions. According to some research articles it can be used on metallic heritage objects too\n\nPoligen ES 91 009\n\nis patented wax emulsion (BASF), according to some sources better than Paraloid B 72\n\n\n-WD 40 / Ballistol / 80 parts white spirit+20 parts fish oil\n\n\n-base coat Paraloid B 72 / topcoat Renaissance Wax etc.\n\nIn principle do not use any solvent, but only distilled water, or a 10% solution of soapwort plant (\"Saponaria officinalis\"). You must be Especially careful when working on porous gemstones like malachite, opal, chalcedony, chrysoprase, agate, carnelian, lapis lazuli, jade and turquoise. Special attention requires gemstones combined with colored metal foils, in this case, the liquid does not come into contact with the foil. Do not use ultrasonic cleaning.\n\nNielloed items can be cleaned only mechanically, never try to use chemical cleaning. Black pigment mixed with Paraloid B 72 can be used for reconstruction of missing parts.\nConcentrated solution of Paraloid B 72 or B 67 (soluble in white spirit) can be used as reversible glue.\n\nDo not clean with solvents, do not use ultrasound, you can use only distilled water, or a mixture of water and ethanol (add up to 0.5% crosslinker). Variety of waxy resin mixtures can be used as glue, depending on the color of amber. You can use 10% solution of Canada balsam in toluene Archaeological material can be cleaned only mechanically.\nSoaking in liquid paraffin can be used to consolidate and improve color of amber.\nAccording to one Korean article for consolidation can be used Paraloid B 67 dissolved in xylene (proved more stable than white spirit, usual solvent for B 67) According to one American article as ideal consolidant and adhesive can be used Regalrez 1126 Artifacts must be Protected from strong light and high temperatures, low humidity and oscillations in humidity, in the case of metal/amber objects do not to use corrosion inhibitors.\n\nRequires a completely different approach than western lacquers. May be found on the Japanese arms and armour. The best approach – leave it to expert for oriental lacquer. Mixture of 6-8% polyvinyl alcohol and chalk can be used as filling material(Rhoplex WS 24 can be used too). Japanese conservators use traditional techniques, but as Urushi causes allergic reactions, these methods are not recommended. Clean it with an aliphatic hydrocarbon such as white or mineral spirits. Distilled water or saliva (moistened cottonwool swabs) can caused discoloration and should be avoided by the inexperienced: pH is crucial. Keep objects in rooms with controlled humidity and temperature, preferably about 50% RH, and protect them from UV radiation.\n\nCan be cleaned with cotton wool swabs soaked in distilled water, or with a mixture of distilled water and ethanol.\nDo not use ultrasound. Avoid any contact with acids.\n\nHistorical objects can be cleaned using a mixture of 70% ethanol and 30% weak ammonia water (1%). To remove the surface layer that has lost luster you can use 3–5% EDTA, after that step rinse with distilled water, and then with 80% ethanol, then with 90% ethanol, and finally with pure ethanol.\nDo not use ultrasound.\nArchaeological finds must be treated as soon as possible, preferably after excavation, you can clean them only mechanically, then consolidate with 2% Paraloid B 72, in the case of dry findings (first saturate with solvent in which it is dissolved), in case of damp or wet findings use Rhoplex WS 24 (acrylic dispersion).\nSomewhat More recent Russian literature recommends use of bleached beeswax dissolved in white spirit or medical benzine as protective coating. Fish glue mixed with water and alcohol (7/3), with addition of 1% katamine AB as biocide can be used as glue. Nonionogenic detergent 2-3% in a mixture of water and alcohol can be used for cleaning.\nAvoid prolonged contact with water, sudden changes in temperature and relative humidity, including strong light or contact with acidic or alkaline solutions (soap water too).\n\nYou can clean it with cottonwool swabs soaked in distilled water or soapwort extract (\"Saponaria officinalis\", 100 grams of dried root per 1 liter of boiling water). Archaeological material can be cleaned only mechanically. Wax/resin mixtures or concentrated solution of Paraloid B 72 (or B 67) can be \nused as glue for archaeology objects.\n\nMain article Conservation and restoration of glass objects\n\nUnsealed plaster can be cleaned with soft brush only; never try to use water or water-based cleaning solutions. Sealed plaster can be cleaned with a swab dampened with water or white spirit.\n\n\nThe items should be stored in rooms that are protected from polluted air, dust, ultraviolet radiation, and excessive relative humidity - ideal values are temperature of 16-20 °C and up to 40% (35-55% according to recent Canadian Conservation Institute recommendations) relative humidity, noting that if metal is combined with organic materials, relative humidity should not be below 45%. Archaeological objects must be stored in rooms (or plastic boxes) with very low relative humidity, or in the case of particularly valuable items in the chambers with nitrogen or argon. Copper or copper alloy objects with active corrosion up to 35% RH. Iron objects with active corrosion 12-15% RH. Shelves in the storerooms must be of stainless steel or chlorine and acetate free plastic or powder coated steel. Wood and wood-based products (Particle board, plywood) must be avoided. Also do not use rubber, felt or wool. When you are handling metal objects, always wear clean cotton gloves. Lighting levels must be kept below 300 lux (up to 150 lux in case of lacquered or painted objects, up to 50 lux in case of objects with light sensitive materials)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1.Mourey, W. La conservation des antiquités métalliques, du chantier de fouilles au musée, Draguignan 1987.\n\n2. Stambolov, T.; Bleck, R.D.; Eichelmann, N. Korrosion und Konservierung von Kunst und Kulturgut aus Metall, Weimar I/1987. (online), II/1988. (online)\n\n3. Шемаханская, М.С. РЕСТАВРАЦИЯ МЕТАЛЛА. Методические рекомендации (1989), Moscow 1989. (online)\n\n4. Никитин, М.К., Мельникова,Е.П. ХИМИЯ В РЕСТАВРАЦИИ. СПРАВОЧНОЕ ПОСОБИЕ.; Leningrad 1990 (chapter on metals conservation) (online)\n\n5. Born, H. Restaurierung Antike Bronzewaffen, Mainz 1993.\n\n6. Heinrich, P. (Hrsg.) Metallrestaurierung, Munich 1994.\n\n7. Catello, C. Argenti antichi : tecnologia restauro conservazione : rifacimenti e falsificazioni, Naples 1994.\n\n8. Marabelli, M. Conservazione e restauro dei metalli d`arte, Rome 1995.\n\n9. Krause, J. Sarkofagi cynowe : problematyka technologiczna warsztatowa i konserwatorska, Torun 1995.\n\n10. Dolcini, L. Il restauro delle oreficerie: aggiornamenti, Milan 1996.\n\n11. Mach, M. Metallrestaurierung/Metal Restoration, Munich 1997.(online)\n\n12. Fischer, A. Reste von organischen Materialien an Bodenfunden aus Metall – Identifizierung und Erhaltung für die archäologische Forschung, Munich 1997.\n\n13. Minzhulin, O.I. Restavraciya tvoriv z metalu, Kiev 1998.\n\n14. Anna Grelle Iusco: Matrici metalliche incise. Il problema della conservazione e restauro dalla calcografia romana all'Istituto nazionale per la grafica,Roma 1998.\n\n15.Anheuser, K. Im Feuer Vergoldet, AdR-Schriftenreihe zur Restaurierung und Grabungstechnik, Band 4 / 1998.\n\n16.Mach, M.; Moetnner, P. Zinkguß, die Konservierung von Denkmälern aus Zink, Munich 1999.\n\n17.Barrandon, J.N.; Meyer-Roudet, H. A la recherche du métal perdu : nouvelles technologies dans la restauration des métaux archéologiques, Paris 1999.\n\n18.Meissner, B.; Doktor, A.; Mach, M. Bronze und Galvanoplastik-Geschichte-Materialanalyse-Restaurierung, Dresden 2000. (online)\n\n19.Volfovsky, C.; Philippon, J. La Conservation des metaux, Paris 2001.\n\n20.Brueggerhoff, S.; Koenigfeld, P. Farbige Eisengitter der Barockzeit: Beiträge zu Geschichte und Funktion, Korrosion und Konservierung, Bochum 2002.\n\n21.Melucca Vaccaro, A.; De Palma, G. I Bronzi di Riace : restauro come conoscenza : 1: archeologia, restauro, conservazione/vol.1, Roma 2003.\n\n22.Gaomez Moral, F. Conservacion De Metales De Interes Cultural, Quito 2004. \n\n23.Letardi, P.; Trentin, I.; Cutugno, G. Monumenti in bronzo all'aperto. Esperienze di conservazione e confronto., Genova 2004.\n\n24.Ronald Gobiet (Ed.), Die Salzburger Mariensäule - Zur Konservierung monumentaler Bleiplastiken / Sulla conservazione dei monumenti in piombo, Salzburg 2006.\n\n25. Salvi, A. , Florence 2007.\n\n26. S. Siano (a cura di): Pulitura laser di bronzi dorati e argenti,Florence 2008.\n\n27.Catello, D Il restauro delle opere in argento. Restoration of silver artifacts, Naples 2008.\n\n28.Schlaepfer, B.R. Metais: Restauracao e conservacao, Rio de Janeiro 2009.\n\n29.Barrio, J.; Cano, E. (Editores). MetalEspaña ’08. Congreso de Conservación y Restauración del Patrimonio Metálico. UAM-CSIC, Madrid 2009.\n\n30. Krist, G. Metallrestaurierung-Metallkonservierung: Geschichte, Methode und Praxis, Vienna 2009.\n\n31.Safarzynski, S.; Weker, W. Wprowadzenie do sztuki konserwacji metalu, Warsaw 2010.\n\n32. Schmidt-Ott, K. Das Plasma in der Metallkonservierung-Moeglichkeiten und Grenzen, Zurich 2010.(online)\n\n33.Bruecke, D. Die Konservierung pigmentierter Altbeschichtungen auf Stahlbauten, Saarbrücken 2011.\n\n34. Diaz Martinez, S.; Garcia Alonso, E. Tecnicas metodologicas applicadas a conservacion-restauracion del patrimonio metalico, Madrid 2011. (online)\n\n35. Barrio Martin, J.; Chamon Frenandez, J. Proyecto Dorados: tecnología, conservación y restauración de los metales dorados medievales, Madrid 2011.\n\n36. La técnica radiográafica en los metales históricos (English translation included), Madrid 2011. (online)\n\n37.Konzervování a restaurování kovů. Ochrana předmětů kulturního dědictví z kovů a jejich slitin, Brno 2011.\n\n38.Knaut, M.; Jeberien, A. (Hrsg.): Adel verpflichtet - Forschungen und Ergebnisse zur Konservierung und Restaurierung der barockzeitlichen Särge vom Schlossplatz Berlin-Mitte, Berlin 2012.\n\n39.Conservation of Metal Objects, National Research Institute of Cultural Heritage, Daejeon (S. Korea)2012.\n40.Schmutzler, B. Rettung vor dem Rost, Rahden 2012.\n\n41. Landesamt f. Denkmalpfl. u. Archäologie Sachsen-Anhalt (Hrsg.):Die Merseburger Fürstengruft Geschichte, Zeremoniell, Restaurierung, Halle 2013.\n\n42. Kuhn, H.; Emerling, E. Werke aus Kupfer, Bronze und Messing, Muenchen 2014.\n\n43.Projecto Coremans :Criterios de intervención\nen materiales metálicos/Intervention criteria for\nmetallic materials, Madrid 2015.(online)\n\n44.Krack,E. Konservierungswissenschaft schreibt Geschichte Objektrestaurierung an der Angewandten – Ein Beitrag zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Konservierungs - wissenschaft und Restaurierung,Wien 2012.\n\n45.Berger,D. Bronzezeitliche Färbetechniken an Metallobjekten nördlich der Alpen,Halle 2012.(online)\n\n46. Аверин ,А. В. «Реставрация древних металлических изделий»,Moscow 2011.\n\n47. Horev,V. Antikvarnoe oruzhie,ekspertiza i restavratsiya,Rostov on Don 2011.\n\nBronze, Eisen, Gold, Silber, Blei, Zinn,Wien 1960.\n\n, Metal 95: Proceedings of the international conference on metals conservation, Semur-en-Auxois, 25–28 September 1995 = Metal 95: actes de la conférence internationale sur la conservation des métaux, Semur-en-Auxois, 25–28 septembre 1995 \n2006/ 54\n\nmuseum objects of tin, Studies in Conservation 2 (1953) 63–72.\nWreck of La Belle, 1686, The International Journal of Nautical\nArchaeology 26 (1) (1997) 65–74.\nnáhrobku olomouckého biskupa Leopolda Egkha z chrámu sv. Mořice v Kroměříži. In Sborník z konference konzervátorů a restaurátorů. Brno 2004, s. 110-114.\n\ndi zinco”, KERMES, arte e técnica del restauro, Nardini editore, anno III. 1990 –\n8 – (18-26).\nrestauración de planchas calcográficas de cinc mediante la técnica de plasma frío”\nen Goya, revista de arte, 283-284 (2001), 308-313.\nDepartament de Ciencia de Materials i Enginyeria Metal·lurgica. Universidad\nPolitécnica de Cataluña.\n\nby potentiostatic reduction”, Studies in Conservation, 39,(1994),100-105\norganic acid environments: electrolytic stabilization/consolidation”, Studies in\nConservation, 44,(1999),157-169.\n\nPrinciples and Practices, Proceedings of the North American\nInternational Regional Conference, Williamsburg, Virginia and\nPhiladelphia, Pennsylvania, September 10–16, (Washington, DC:\nSmithsonian Institution Press, 1972) pp. 221–222.\nConservation, 40 (1995) 10-18\nvestiges aéronautiques immergés en alliages d’aluminium, actes du colloque\nSauvegarder le XXème siècle : la conservation des matériaux modernes, Ottawa\n1991, Pub. ICC, (1993), 373-380\nde Conservación y Restauración de Metal,Madrid, del 13 al 17 de septiembre de 2011\n\n\n1.Armas protohistóricas con magnetita, by Jesús Alonso López\n\n2.Conservation of metals - by Catia Viegas-Wesolowska\n\n3.Staffordshire Hoard Blog\n\n4.Cheapside Hoard Blog\n\n5.Silver linings: conserving The Borghese traveling service\n\n6.Zinnrestauration\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38472717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38472717", "title": "De Constantia", "text": "De Constantia\n\nDe Constantia in publicis malis (On constancy in times of public evil) was a philosophical dialogue published by Justus Lipsius in two books in 1583. The book, modelled after the dialogues of Seneca, was pivotal in establishing an accommodation of Stoicism and Christianity which became known as Neostoicism. \"De Constantia\" went through over eighty editions between the sixteenth and eighteenth centuries.\n\nUnlike his later books which synthesised the basic principles of Stoicism (albeit in Christianised form), in \"De Constantia\" Lipsius focuses on Stoicism's value in strengthening the mind against external troubles and anxieties. In an age of religious disputes and persecutions Lipsius intended the book to be both a consolation and a solution to the calamities which he and his contemporaries were enduring. The result is a handbook for practical living, and as such is focused more on moral rules than rigorous philosophical argument. Lipsius emphasises that the mind and the inner life is the site of true goodness. The central theme of the book is the need to cultivate voluntary and uncomplaining endurance of all human contingencies.\n\n\"De Constantia\" was Lipsius' most popular work. Between the 16th and the 18th centuries, it went through more than eighty editions, of which over forty were in the original Latin and the rest were translations into vernacular European languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "887524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887524", "title": "Determinans", "text": "Determinans\n\nIn linguistics, determinans (from the Latin \"determinare\", \"to fix the limits of something\") is a part of speech that modifies another part of speech. In the noun phrase \"noun phrase\", for example, \"noun\" is the \"determinans\" and \"phrase\" is the determinatum, i.e. that which is to be determined.\n\n"}
{"id": "25225908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25225908", "title": "Deutsche Orient-Gesellschaft", "text": "Deutsche Orient-Gesellschaft\n\nThe Deutsche Orient-Gesellschaft (, \"German Oriental Society\"), abbreviated DOG, is a German voluntary association based in Berlin dedicated to the study of the Near East.\n\nThe DOG was officially founded in January 1898 to foster public interest in oriental antiquities, and to promote related archaeological research. It competed with similar bodies in France and England, and reflected an increased enthusiasm to learn about the Bible lands in the late 19th century. DOG focused on the cultures of the Middle East from early times to the Islamic period.\n\nThe founders of the DOG included a number of powerful, well-connected and wealthy members of German society, including Henri James Simon and banker Franz von Mendelssohn. Their wealth enabled the DOG to undertake expensive excavations in the Middle East. Kaiser Wilhelm II developed an interest in archaeology, and took the DOG under his protection from 1901, funding excavations with grants from Imperial funds. It was officially a subsidiary of the German museum administration, so its finds automatically belonged to the Prussian state. Its work was aided by friendly relations established between the German and Ottoman Empires.\nWork was interrupted by the World Wars. The DOG was reestablished in 1947, and celebrated its centennial at the Pergamon Museum in 1998.\n\nDOG undertook excavations in Babylon from 1899 to 1917, directed by Robert Koldewey, uncovering the Ishtar Gate, the palaces of Nebuchadnezzar, and the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. Koldewey also claimed to have discovered the Tower of Babel.\n\nLudwig Borchardt led DOG excavations in Egypt in 1902 at the Ancient Egyptian necropolis of Abusir and then, from 1911 to 1914, at the ruins of Tell el-Amarna, where the famous bust of Nefertiti, now in Berlin's Ägyptisches Museum, was discovered amongst other sculptural artefacts in the workshop of the sculptor Thutmose.\n\nWalter Andrae led DOG excavations at Assyrian capital of Assur from 1903 to 1914, and Hugo Winckler excavated at Boğazköy in Turkey from 1906 to 1911, uncovering the capital of the Hittite Empire, Hattuša. Other excavations before the First World War took place at sites at across the Fertile Crescent - in Mesopotamia, Turkey, Palestine and Egypt - including Megiddo, Capernaum, Borsippa, Hatra, Jericho, Kar-Tukulti-Ninurta, and Uruk, but the outbreak of the First World War in August 1914 terminated DOG's excavations.\n\nAfter the DOG was reestablished following the Second World War, more recent excavations have taken place at Habuba Kabira from 1969 to 1975, at Tall Munbāqa (also Ekalte (Mumbaqat)) in northern Syria from 1969 to 2012, near Bogazköy from 1996 to 1999, Sarissa in 1995, Urkesh in 1998, and Qatna in 1999.\n\nThe DOG produces the annual publications, \"Mitteilungen der Deutschen Orient-Gesellschaft\" (\"MDOG\") and \"Alter Orient aktuell\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54490056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54490056", "title": "Duncan Probert", "text": "Duncan Probert\n\nDuncan Probert (born 13 April 1961, died on 15 December 2016) was a scholar of early medieval British place- and personal names, one of the editors of the \"Oxford Dictionary of Family Names in Britain and Ireland\", and a council member of the English Place-Name Society from 2005 to his death. He was particularly noted for his work in his doctoral thesis and subsequent publications revising scholars' 'understanding of the relationship between the West Saxons and the Britons of the south west' in early medieval Britain. This included major contributions to understanding \"Kingston\" place-names in England, and 'searching' and 'painstaking' research showing 'how close scrutiny of charters and their bounds can allow detailed understanding of earlier land units and landscapes'.\n\nPrior to beginning his career as a historian, Probert worked as 'a bio-mathematician at Grasslands Research, then after a succession of other jobs (at various times he made intricate miniature model figures, drove a skip lorry, was a school caretaker, a computer programmer, and even did some building work) he started his own graphic-design business in Stoke on Trent'. He returned to education in the 1990s, completing an Open University Arts Foundation course in 1994, taking a First in his BA in Medieval Studies at University of Birmingham in 1998, and proceeding directly to a PhD at the same institution, which he completed in 2002. During 2003-6 he was a British Academy fellow at Birmingham, and a visiting lecturer in Medieval History 2006-15, as well as a Research Associate on the ‘Family Names of the UK’ project at the University of the West of England 2012-14 and, from 2010 to his death, a research fellow at King's College, London. He also undertook historical re-enactment, mostly of the Viking Age. He 'managed to combine the hard-headedness of real-world employment experience with an irrepressible belief in the power of human ingenuity to solve problems'.\n\nAs of May 2016, it was 'hoped that his partner, Alison, and his friend and former supervisor, Steve Bassett, will be able to bring some of his unfinished pieces to publication in the future. Unfinished work includes a draft dictionary of Devon place-names.'\n\n\n\n\n\nProbert was also noted for his cartographic work for a range of academic books, producing maps 'ranging in date from ancient Nubia to the Boer War'. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48241248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48241248", "title": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Panofsky)", "text": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Panofsky)\n\n\"Early Netherlandish Painting, Its Origins and Character\", is a 1953 book on art history by Erwin Panofsky, derived from the 1947–48 Charles Eliot Norton Lectures. The book had a wide impact on studies of Renaissance art and Early Netherlandish painting in particular, but also studies in iconography, art history, and intellectual history in general. The book is particularly well-known for its iconographic treatment of Van Eyck's \"Arnolfini Portrait\" as a kind of marriage contract, a hypothesis advanced by Panofsky as early as 1934. The book remains influential despite its reliance on black-and-white reproductions of paintings, which led to some errors of analysis.\n\n\"Early Netherlandish Painting\" shares its title with the comprehensive, 14-volume survey by Max J. Friedländer, a fact obliquely acknowledged at the beginning of the preface.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38286451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38286451", "title": "Escape from Tomorrow", "text": "Escape from Tomorrow\n\nEscape from Tomorrow is a 2013 American independent horror film written and directed by Randy Moore in his directorial debut. It tells the story of an unemployed father having increasingly bizarre experiences and disturbing visions on the last day of a family vacation at the Walt Disney World Resort. It premiered in January at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival and was later a personal selection of Roger Ebert, shown at his 15th annual film festival in Champaign, Illinois. The film was a 2012 official selection of the PollyGrind Film Festival, but at the time filmmakers were still working on some legal issues and asked that it not be screened.\n\nThe film drew attention due to the fact that Moore had shot most of it on location at both Walt Disney World and Disneyland without permission from The Walt Disney Company, owner and operator of both parks. Due to Disney's reputation of being protective of its intellectual property, the cast and crew used guerrilla filmmaking techniques to avoid attracting attention, such as keeping their scripts on their iPhones and shooting on handheld video cameras similar to those used by park visitors. After principal photography was complete, Moore was so determined to keep the project a secret from Disney that he edited it in South Korea. Sundance similarly declined to discuss the film in detail before it was shown. It was called \"the ultimate guerrilla film\". Rather than suppressing the film, Disney chose to ignore it.\n\nIt has been compared to the work of Roman Polanski and David Lynch. However, many who saw it expressed strong doubts that the film would be shown to a wider audience due to the legal issues involved and the negative depiction of the parks. At the time of its premiere, Disney stated that it was \"aware\" of the film; since then the online supplement to \"\" has included an entry for the film. \n\n\"Escape from Tomorrow\" was released simultaneously to theaters and video on-demand on October 11, 2013, through PDA, a Cinetic Media company.\n\nA montage shows visitors on the rides at Walt Disney World Resort and the many visuals and animatronics that accompany the rides. It ends with a man losing his head while riding Big Thunder Mountain Railroad. On the last day of a family vacation at Walt Disney World, Jim White gets fired by his boss during a phone call on the balcony of the Contemporary Resort Hotel with his family. He keeps the news to himself to avoid spoiling their vacation. The family leaves their room and takes the monorail to the park, alongside two French teenagers, Isabelle and Sophie.\n\nThe chance encounter with the girls piques Jim's interest, and he makes subtle efforts to pursue them unbeknownst to the rest of his family. He has disturbing hallucinations during the rides, such as the evil faces of audio-animatronic characters and his family verbally abusing him. After fighting with his wife Emily, Jim decides not to take his son Elliot to Space Mountain (which gives Elliot motion sickness) in order to keep chasing after the French girls. He then takes his daughter Sara to the Magic Kingdom so he can stalk Isabelle and Sophie while Emily and Elliot return to the hotel. Later, the son of a wheelchair-bound man, whom Jim spotted earlier, shoves Sara, who scrapes her knee. Jim takes her to the park nurse to have Sara's knee treated. Jim and Sara meet a mysterious woman with a glimmering amulet necklace which hypnotizes Jim. He blacks out and regains consciousness mid-coitus with the woman in her room. Afterwards, she claims that the parks' wholesome, costumed princesses are actually part of a secret prostitution ring that services rich Asian businessmen. Increasingly unnerved, Jim and Sara join his wife and son at the pool, where Jim sees the French girls. He swims closer to converse with them, but Emily sees and berates him.\n\nHis family returns to Epcot, where the tension between Jim and Emily comes to a head after a drunk Jim vomits while on the Gran Fiesta Tour. Spotting the French girls, Emily argues with Jim about his obvious interest in them and slaps Sara. Embarrassed, she returns to the hotel with Elliot, leaving Jim and Sara to ride on the Soarin' attraction at Epcot, where Jim imagines a beautiful topless woman superimposed over the ride's video footage of landscapes, who promises they will be together soon. After the ride, Sophie approaches and invites Jim to come with them. When Jim refuses, Sophie spits on his face and she walks off, Jim notices that Sara disappeared and searches frantically for her, but the park guards use a taser to knock him unconscious.\n\nJim awakes in a secret detention facility under Epcot's Spaceship Earth, where he sees video screens displaying pictures of the woman he imagined on the Soarin' ride and other images of events that happened earlier. A scientist enters and activates a Spaceship Earth resembling helmet, which covers Jim's head and scans him while images of what the scientist refers to as \"the real Jim\" appear on the screens, being himself dressed differently and apparently part of another family. The scientist discusses Jim's flights of fantasy and imagination and reveals that he is part of the experiment by the Siemens Corporation ever since he first went to the theme park as a child with his father. His boss is in on the conspiracy and his firing was all part of the plan, and so was the closure of the Buzz Lightyear ride just as he and Elliot approached the boarding area, much to Elliot's distress. The scientist also tells Jim that he had turned in Elliot to them, like Jim's father had done to him as a child.\n\nAfter damaging the instrument panel with a medical ointment and decapitating the scientist, who turns out to be an android, Jim escapes from the laboratory through the sewer. While searching for Sara, Jim trips next to the wheelchair-bound man, suspects and attacks him. After realizing that he caused a scene and doubts the man's involvement, he returns to the room of the woman, where he discovers she has captured Sara, now wearing a Snow White costume. The woman rambles about her time as a character princess and tells him how bad things happen everywhere, including the decapitation at the park. She again hypnotizes Jim with the necklace, but Sara pulls it off and smashes it, freeing Jim from her spell. He returns to his hotel room and puts his family to bed. Jim suffers with digestive distress, vomits up a large amount of blood and hairballs, which he recognizes as symptoms of the cat flu. He begins to panic and bleed uncontrollably in the bathroom. Elliot enters and Jim begs him for help, but he closes the door on him.\n\nThe next morning, Emily finds Jim's corpse, which now has cat eyes and a grinning face. Disney cleaning staff arrive to remove proof of death and fill Elliot's head with false memories of riding the Buzz Lightyear attraction. They take Jim's body to the unmarked white van from the opening. Meanwhile, the valet from the video screens greets the \"real Jim\", accompanied by the fantasy woman and a young girl, before they check into the hotel as the valet watches the van drive away.\n\n\nMoore, a native of Lake Bluff, Illinois, frequently visited his father in Orlando following his parents' divorce. The two often spent time together at Walt Disney World nearby. \"It was a special, physical place, and it became an emotional space,\" he told \"Filmmaker.\" He added: \"Obviously, I have a lot of father issues that I can't separate from that place.\" Later, their relationship deteriorated.\n\nHe decided to pursue a career in film. After attending two other film schools, he graduated from Full Sail University in another Central Florida town, Winter Park, as the class valedictorian. He moved to Southern California and began working as a story editor, primarily doing uncredited rewrites.\n\nIn Hollywood, he married and started a family. Much like his own father, he frequently took his own children to Disneyland. \"It wasn't until our first family trip together that this very visceral emotional landscape of my past, that I had by now nearly all but forgotten, hit me again like [a] bullet.\" On the family's first trip to Walt Disney World, the emotions grew stronger. \"[I]t was like he was there as a ghost. We were going on the same rides I used to go on with him, but now we're no longer talking anymore.\"\n\nHis wife, a native of the former Soviet Union who had no memories or expectations like his, saw things with fresh eyes. Moore said \"She's a nurse and goes between floors at hospitals. At one point she turned to me at some princess fair or something and said, 'This is worse than working the psych [ward] at the hospital.'\"\n\nHe read Neal Gabler's biography of Walt Disney and took the children to Disneyland more frequently. \"I became obsessed with finding a connection,\" he recalled later. He wrote the screenplay for \"Escape from Tomorrow\" in a month along with two others. An inheritance from his grandparents provided the bulk of the film's budget, which he put at around $650,000, triple what he had originally planned.\n\n\"There was nowhere else to do it,\" Moore says of his decision to use Disney World as a setting and shoot at the parks. Disney, which has a reputation for aggressively protecting its intellectual property, has been tolerant of visitors uploading videos of their visits to YouTube and elsewhere since most of those user-created videos project a positive image of the parks. But Moore did not expect to get permission from Disney to shoot there given his negative, surrealistic portrayal of the park.\n\nInstead he used guerrilla filmmaking techniques, which sometimes call for using locations without getting permission. \"Escape from Tomorrow\" is not the first film made in whole, or part, this way at the Disney parks. In 2010, the British street artist Banksy shot a scene for \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\" in one of the parks with his collaborator Mr. Brainwash. They managed to smuggle the footage out after being detained and questioned by park security. The following year, a viral found footage short, \"Missing in the Mansion\", filmed in the Haunted Mansion, was distributed online without interference from Disney.<ref name=\"/Film post\"></ref>\n\nExtensive pre-production was necessary. The unique nature of the film shoot dictated steps not normally taken in filmmaking, such as charting the position of the sun weeks in advance since they could not use lighting equipment. Scenes were rehearsed and blocked in hotel rooms, rather than the actual locations. \"We must have walked through the entire movie at least eight or nine times during multiple scouting trips before we ever rolled camera,\" Moore says.\n\nBefore principal photography, the cast and crew bought season passes to both the Disneyland and Walt Disney World resorts. They spent ten days in Florida, then returned to California for two weeks at Disneyland, making the parks depicted in the film a combination of both resorts. Actors and crew entered the parks in small groups to avoid attracting attention. \"At one point, I even made the camera department shave off their facial hair and dress in tourist attire, which almost provoked a mutiny,\" says Moore. Despite the actors wearing the same clothes for days on end, Moore told the \"Los Angeles Times\", park personnel never appeared to notice them, save for one day near the end of filming when Disneyland security thought they were paparazzi harassing a celebrity family.\n\nThe film was shot using the video mode of two Canon EOS 5D Mark II and one Canon EOS 1D Mark IV digital single-lens reflex cameras, which helped the filmmakers look more like typical park visitors. To compensate for their inability to control the lighting, the film was shot in monochrome mode. \"[W]e were shooting with really fast lenses wide open, so our depth of field was razor thin. Black and white helped us enormously with focus and composition, since we were doing almost everything in camera and didn't use a focus puller,\" Moore recalled. It was an irreversible choice. \"[B]ecause the 5D doesn't shoot RAW, we customized settings in its monochromatic mode and couldn't go back to color, even if we had wanted to.\" Moore was comfortable with the result because of the surrealistic, dreamlike quality it created, forcing viewers to see the familiar sights of the Disney parks in a new way.\n\nActors and crew used their iPhones to communicate and store information such as the script—that way, they looked like guests casually using their phones. The phones were also used to record sound, in addition to digital recorders taped to each actor's body that were left running all day. For day scenes, Moore felt comfortable risking only three or four takes of each scene, but found he could do more at night.\n\nAfter the location filming, production went back to soundstages for interiors. Some scenes were shot against a green screen background for second unit footage of other locations to be substituted, allowing the use of crane shots. With the photography done, Moore took the film to South Korea to edit to prevent Disney from finding out; he also refused to tell most of his close friends what he was doing. Visual effects were done by the same company there that had done them for the 2006 South Korean monster film, \"The Host\".\n\nThe post-production tasks were as challenging as the production itself. Sound editors had to listen to the entire uncut tracks from the recorders taped to the actors' bodies in order to find the dialogue. Content proprietary to Disney, such as the lyrics to \"It's a Small World\" and footage from Soarin', was removed from the film to avoid copyright infringement. Composer Abel Korzeniowski contributed a light, airy score similar to those used in Hollywood's Golden Age.\n\nMoore submitted the completed film to the Sundance Film Festival, where many independent films seek distributors. He had little hope that it would be accepted due to the festival's corporate sponsors. But Trevor Groth, the festival's new director of programming, was \"blown away\" by \"Escape from Tomorrow\", and accepted it for the festival's non-competitive \"Next\" category, for films that transcend the limitations of the low budgets common to most independent films.\n\nWhen the 2013 festival began in Park City, Utah, the secrecy about the movie continued. The festival's website only identified the setting as a theme park. Nan Chalat-Noaker, critic for the \"Park Record\", recalls that the festival and even the film's publicist were unwilling to share further details about the film, but strongly urged critics to see it. In her review, she declined to identify the setting of the film by name, although she dropped broad hints, out of fear it would alert Disney's lawyers. The premiere, on the festival's first night, was not fully attended; when word got out to the attendees, all the other shows were effectively sold out.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 54% based on 81 reviews, with an average rating of 6/10. The site's critical consensus reads: \"Conceptually audacious but only intermittently successful in execution, \"Escape From Tomorrow\" is nonetheless visually inventive and darkly surreal.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 58 out of 100, based on 27 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nBefore the Martin Luther King Day weekend was over, \"Escape from Tomorrow\" was being widely discussed by festival attendees. \"The New York Times\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" both ran articles about the film and Moore. Much of the attention focused on the audacity of the filmmaking. Movies.com reported that people were already calling it \"the ultimate guerrilla film\". On the night of the premiere, Drew McWeeny wrote:\n\nOther critics concurred that the film had artistic merit. \"[W]atching Moore's noir tale is like being super-glued to your seat while getting poked in the eye,\" Chalat-Noaker wrote. \"It's both fascinating and repelling.\" Stephen Zeitchik of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"one of the strangest and most provocative movies this reporter has seen in eight years attending the Sundance Film Festival\". At Indiewire, Eric Kohn wrote that \"Moore portrays Disney World as the ultimate horror show and gets the point across in nearly every scene\". \nWhile they conceded the film's audacious production made it worth their time to watch, other critics found flaws. \"It's not a great film. The story has some good ideas, but the execution is uneven,\" wrote Peter Sciretta at /Film, while still recommending it as \"unlike anything you've seen before [or will] see again\". Similarly, CraveOnline's William Bibbiani \"wouldn't have missed it for the world\" but qualified it by noting that the film often lacked \"cohesion and clarity\".\n\nKyle Smith of the \"New York Post\" had the most negative assessment, calling it \"more fun to discuss than to sit through\". While he found the guerilla filmmaking aspect of it \"intriguing\", all it amounted to for him was \"a couple of amusingly surreal moments\" that could have taken place at any sufficiently large amusement park: \"Even Disney-hating hipsters are going to be disappointed; the film is a pure festival play that is more or less unreleasable unless theater owners start selling weed along with popcorn.\"\n\nMany journalists who saw the film at Sundance speculated that it was likely that Disney would take legal action to prevent the film from being shown outside the festival, or perhaps even during it. \"Disney's lawyers are probably climbing onto helicopters and planning a raid on Park City right now,\" wrote McWeeny. Critics urged others present to see it before it was too late, and commented that it was questionable if those not present at the festival would ever have an opportunity to see it.\n\nHowever, others noted that if Disney had attempted to block the film's release, it was unclear on what legal grounds it could be done. Moore took care to avoid direct copyright infringement of songs or films played as part of attractions, and intellectual property law is less clear on the other aspects of the film. Science fiction writer Cory Doctorow, who distributed his first novel, \"Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom\", set in a 22nd-century Disney World, under a Creative Commons license, believes there's at most \"a possible trademark claim, and I suppose that Disney could conceivabl[y] bring suit for violating the park's terms of use, but these are much harder cases to make than copyright.\"\n\nColumbia Law School professor Tim Wu did not think Disney would have any defensible intellectual property claim. \"Though the filmmakers may have committed trespass when they broke Disney World's rules and if it violated the terms of entry on their tickets, the film itself is a different matter,\" he wrote on \"The New Yorker\"'s blog. \"As commentary on the social ideals of Disney World, it seems to clearly fall within a well-recognized category of fair use, and therefore probably will not be stopped by a court using copyright or trademark laws.\"\n\nDespite the film's repeated use of Disney's characters and iconography, Wu explained, trademark law was not sufficient. \"Disney does not have some kind of general intellectual-property right in Disney World itself.\" To make a trademark-infringement case against Moore, he continued, Disney would have to convince a court that the use of its protected imagery in the movie could reasonably lead viewers to believe that it had a role in the film's production, and he did not think that was a plausible argument. \"The scene where a Disney Princess attempts to crush a child seems to eliminate that possibility.\"\n\nAs for copyright, Wu saw Moore's use of the Disney parks as transformative:\n\nAs such, he saw the film as offering artistic commentary on the cultural impact of Disney, and thus clearly falling under fair use. Wu likened it to a 1990s case brought by Mattel against artist Thomas Forsythe, after he sold some of his photographs depicting another American icon, Barbie, being eaten by vintage appliances as a way of calling attention to the toy doll's role in promoting the objectification of women in American culture. Not only did the court dismiss Mattel's complaint, \"[t]he judges were so annoyed by the lawsuits that they awarded attorney's fees of nearly two million dollars to the artist ... A judge has to think of the First Amendment when asked to ban art work.\"\n\nIn his /Film review, Sciretta raised another issue:\n\nAt \"Slate\", Aisha Harris allowed that this was a possibility, especially if children were filmed without their parents' consent, but noted \"the law on that issue is not black and white either.\"\n\nDisney did not return reporters' calls or emails for comment, nor took any legal action during the festival, although it confirmed to CNN that it was \"aware\" of the movie. Despite critical apprehension that the film would never be shown outside the festival, some observers saw the situation as more complex. Were Disney to attempt to forcefully suppress the film, that effort could serve to draw even more attention to it, a phenomenon known as the Streisand effect. Even if Disney were to successfully prevent official distribution, the film could easily be pirated and distributed over the Internet. In his \"Post\" review, Smith suggested that Disney prevent this by taking the opposite course, simply ignoring \"Escape from Tomorrow\" and letting the attention dissipate by itself.\n\nMichael Ryan, director of The YoungCuts Film Festival, noted that there was a precedent for the film in the Air Pirates lawsuit, in which Disney spent eight years in court with some underground cartoonists who had published an underground comix parody in which Mickey Mouse and the other Disney characters engaged in explicit sex and used illegal drugs, among other behavior they avoided in Disney's own narratives. He suggested that Disney buy the rights and release the film itself, which it could easily do as its announced interest would guarantee it a monopsony on the film since no other distributor would want to match Disney's deep pockets or its feared legal response. As a Disney release, \"Escape from Tomorrow\" would have a large potential audience of both Disney enthusiasts and antagonists, Disney would be making money from property it already owns instead of someone else and the company's apparent willingness to go in the joke would take some of the satiric edge off.\n\nMoore expressed hope that the film could be shown and released, even if it meant a legal battle.\n\nAccording to \"The Hollywood Reporter\", Disney chose to avoid responding to the film altogether, rather than seeking legal action, in an effort to prevent increased publicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33894533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33894533", "title": "Games and Culture", "text": "Games and Culture\n\nGames and Culture is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of interactive media, covering areas such as socio-cultural, political and economic dimensions of gaming. The journal's editor-in-chief is Tanya Krzywinska (Falmouth University). It was established in 2006 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"Games and Culture\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "8406789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8406789", "title": "Herzl Award", "text": "Herzl Award\n\nThe Herzl Award is awarded annually by the Department for Zionist Activities of the World Zionist Organization (WZO) to outstanding young men and women in recognition of their exceptional efforts on behalf of Israel and the Zionist cause. The award was first awarded in 2004, on the centennial anniversary of Theodore Herzl's death.\n\nHerzl was the father of political Zionism. Even though he died at the young age of 44, of which only 9 were dedicated to the Zionist cause, he was able to mobilize the forces and create the infrastructure that would revolutionize the Jewish world and bring about the realization of the Jewish people's age-old dream of returning to Zion.\n\nAccording to the site of the WZO candidates are nominated by Zionist Federations around the world for achievement in one or more of several fields:\n\nNominees must be no older than 44, Herzl's age at the time of his death.\n\nAll Herzl Award recipients receive a distinctive certificate and an engraved cast bronze trophy, as well as being inscribed in a special Herzl album in Jerusalem.\n\nIn addition, the Winner of the South African Zionist Federation's \"Zionist Quiz\" for schools is awarded a Herzl Prize (through 2009).\n\n"}
{"id": "523499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523499", "title": "Iconography", "text": "Iconography\n\nIconography, as a branch of art history, studies the identification, description, and the interpretation of the content of images: the subjects depicted, the particular compositions and details used to do so, and other elements that are distinct from artistic style. The word \"iconography\" comes from the Greek (\"image\") and (\"to write\").\n\nA secondary meaning (based on a non-standard translation of the Greek and Russian equivalent terms) is the production of religious images, called \"icons\", in the Byzantine and Orthodox Christian tradition (see Icon).\n\nIn art history, \"an iconography\" may also mean a particular depiction of a subject in terms of the content of the image, such as the number of figures used, their placing and gestures. The term is also used in many academic fields other than art history, for example semiotics and media studies, and in general usage, for the content of images, the typical depiction in images of a subject, and related senses. Sometimes distinctions have been made between \"iconology\" and \"iconography\", although the definitions, and so the distinction made, varies. \nWhen referring to movies, genres are immediately recognizable through their iconography, motifs that become associated with a specific genre through repetition.\n\nEarly Western writers who took special note of the content of images include Giorgio Vasari, whose \"Ragionamenti\", interpreting the paintings in the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, reassuringly demonstrates that such works were difficult to understand even for well-informed contemporaries. Gian Pietro Bellori, a 17th-century biographer of artists of his own time, describes and analyses, not always correctly, many works. Lessing's study (1796) of the classical figure Amor with an inverted torch was an early attempt to use a study of a type of image to explain the culture it originated in, rather than the other way round. \n\nIconography as an academic art historical discipline developed in the nineteenth-century in the works of scholars such as Adolphe Napoleon Didron (1806–1867), Anton Heinrich Springer (1825–1891), and Émile Mâle (1862–1954) all specialists in Christian religious art, which was the main focus of study in this period, in which French scholars were especially prominent. They looked back to earlier attempts to classify and organise subjects encyclopedically like Cesare Ripa's \"Iconologia overo Descrittione Dell’imagini Universali cavate dall’Antichità et da altri luoghi \" and Anne Claude Philippe de Caylus's \"Recueil d'antiquités égyptiennes, étrusques, grècques, romaines et gauloises\" as guides to understanding works of art, both religious and profane, in a more scientific manner than the popular aesthetic approach of the time. These early contributions paved the way for encyclopedias, manuals, and other publications useful in identifying the content of art. Mâle's \"l'Art religieux du XIIIe siècle en France\" (originally 1899, with revised editions) translated into English as \"The Gothic Image, Religious Art in France of the Thirteenth Century\" has remained continuously in print.\n\nIn the early-twentieth century Germany, Aby Warburg (1866–1929) and his followers Fritz Saxl (1890–1948) and Erwin Panofsky (1892–1968) elaborated the practice of identification and classification of motifs in images to using iconography as a means to understanding meaning. Panofsky codified an influential approach to iconography in his 1939 \"Studies in Iconology\", where he defined it as \"the branch of the history of art which concerns itself with the subject matter or meaning of works of art, as opposed to form,\" although the distinction he and other scholars drew between particular definitions of \"iconography\" (put simply, the identification of visual content) and \"iconology\" (the analysis of the meaning of that content), has not been generally accepted, though it is still used by some writers.\n\nIn the United States, to which Panofsky immigrated in 1931, students such as Frederick Hartt, and Meyer Schapiro continued under his influence in the discipline. In an influential article of 1942, \"Introduction to an \"Iconography of Mediaeval Architecture\"\", Richard Krautheimer, a specialist on early medieval churches and another German émigré, extended iconographical analysis to architectural forms.\n\nThe period from 1940 can be seen as one where iconography was especially prominent in art history. Whereas most icongraphical scholarship remains highly dense and specialized, some analyses began to attract a much wider audience, for example Panofsky's theory (now generally out of favour with specialists) that the writing on the rear wall in the \"Arnolfini Portrait\" by Jan van Eyck turned the painting into the record of a marriage contract. Holbein's \"The Ambassadors\" has been the subject of books for a general market with new theories as to its iconography, and the best-sellers of Dan Brown include theories, disowned by most art historians, on the iconography of works by Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nTechnological advances allowed the building-up of huge collections of photographs, with an iconographic arrangement or index, which include those of the Warburg Institute and the \"Index of Christian Art\" at Princeton (which has made a specialism of iconography since its early days in America). These are now being digitised and made available online, usually on a restricted basis.\nWith the arrival of computing, the Iconclass system, a highly complex way of classifying the content of images, with 28,000 classification types, and 14,000 keywords, was developed in the Netherlands as a standard classification for recording collections, with the idea of assembling huge databases that will allow the retrieval of images featuring particular details, subjects or other common factors. For example, the Iconclass code \"71H7131\" is for the subject of \"Bathsheba (alone) with David's letter\", whereas \"71\" is the whole \"Old Testament\" and \"71H\" the \"story of David\". A number of collections of different types have been classified using Iconclass, notably many types of old master print, the collections of the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin and the German Marburger Index. These are available, usually on-line or on DVD. The system can also be used outside pure art history, for example on sites like Flickr.\n\nReligious images are used to some extent by all major religions, including both Indian and Abrahamic faiths, and often contain highly complex iconography, which reflects centuries of accumulated tradition.\n\nCentral to the iconography and hagiography of Indian religions are mudra or gestures with specific meanings. Other features include the aureola and halo, also found in Christian and Islamic art, and divine qualities and attributes represented by asana and ritual tools such as the dharmachakra, vajra, dadar, chhatra, sauwastika, phurba and danda. The symbolic use of colour to denote the Classical Elements or Mahabhuta and letters and bija syllables from sacred alphabetic scripts are other features. Under the influence of tantra art developed esoteric meanings, accessible only to initiates; this is an especially strong feature of Tibetan art. The art of Indian Religions esp. Hindus in its numerous sectoral divisions is governed by sacred texts called the Aagama which describes the ratio and proportion of the icon, called \"taalmaana\" as well as mood of the central figure in a context. For example, Narasimha an incarnation of Vishnu though considered a wrathful deity but in few contexts is depicted in pacified mood.\n\nAlthough iconic depictions of, or concentrating on, a single figure are the dominant type of Buddhist image, large stone relief or fresco narrative cycles of the \"Life of the Buddha\", or tales of his previous lives, are found at major sites like Sarnath, Ajanta, and Borobudor, especially in earlier periods. Conversely, in Hindu art, narrative scenes have become rather more common in recent centuries, especially in miniature paintings of the lives of Krishna and Rama.\n\nAfter an early period when aniconism was strong, surviving Early Christian art began, about two centuries after Christ, with small images in the Catacombs of Rome that show orans figures, portraits of Christ and some saints, and a limited number of \"abbreviated representations\" of biblical episodes emphasizing deliverance. From the Constantinian period monumental art borrowed motifs from Roman Imperial imagery, classical Greek and Roman religion and popular art – the motif of Christ in Majesty owes something to both Imperial portraits and depictions of Zeus. In the Late Antique period iconography began to be standardised, and to relate more closely to Biblical texts, although many gaps in the canonical Gospel narratives were plugged with matter from the apocryphal gospels. Eventually the Church would succeed in weeding most of these out, but some remain, like the ox and ass in the Nativity of Christ.\n\nAfter the period of Byzantine iconoclasm iconographical innovation was regarded as unhealthy, if not heretical, in the Eastern Church, though it still continued at a glacial pace. More than in the West, traditional depictions were often considered to have authentic or miraculous origins, and the job of the artist was to copy them with as little deviation as possible. The Eastern church also never accepted the use of monumental high relief or free-standing sculpture, which it found too reminiscent of paganism. Most modern Eastern Orthodox icons are very close to their predecessors of a thousand years ago, though development, and some shifts in meaning, have occurred – for example the old man wearing a fleece in conversation with Saint Joseph usually seen in Orthodox Nativities seems to have begun as one of the shepherds, or the prophet Isaiah, but is now usually understood as the \"Tempter\" (Satan).\n\nIn both East and West, numerous iconic types of Christ, Mary and saints and other subjects were developed; the number of named types of icons of Mary, with or without the infant Christ, was especially large in the East, whereas Christ Pantocrator was much the commonest image of Christ. Especially important depictions of Mary include the Hodegetria and Panagia types. Traditional models evolved for narrative paintings, including large cycles covering the events of the Life of Christ, the Life of the Virgin, parts of the Old Testament, and, increasingly, the lives of popular saints. Especially in the West, a system of attributes developed for identifying individual figures of saints by a standard appearance and symbolic objects held by them; in the East they were more likely to identified by text labels.\n\nFrom the Romanesque period sculpture on churches became increasingly important in Western art, and probably partly because of the lack of Byzantine models, became the location of much iconographic innovation, along with the illuminated manuscript, which had already taken a decisively different direction from Byzantine equivalents, under the influence of Insular art and other factors. Developments in theology and devotional practice produced innovations like the subject of the Coronation of the Virgin and the Assumption, both associated with the Franciscans, as were many other developments. Most painters remained content to copy and slightly modify the works of others, and it is clear that the clergy, by whom or for whose churches most art was commissioned, often specified what they wanted shown in great detail.\n\nThe theory of typology, by which the meaning of most events of the Old Testament was understood as a \"type\" or pre-figuring of an event in the life of, or aspect of, Christ or Mary was often reflected in art, and in the later Middle Ages came to dominate the choice of Old Testament scenes in Western Christian art.\nWhereas in the Romanesque and Gothic periods the great majority of religious art was intended to convey often complex religious messages as clearly as possible, with the arrival of Early Netherlandish painting iconography became highly sophisticated, and in many cases appears to be deliberately enigmatic, even for a well-educated contemporary. The subtle layers of meaning uncovered by modern iconographical research in works of Robert Campin such as the Mérode Altarpiece, and of Jan van Eyck such as the Madonna of Chancellor Rolin and the Washington Annunciation lie in small details of what are on first viewing very conventional representations. When Italian painting developed a taste for enigma, considerably later, it most often showed in secular compositions influenced by Renaissance Neo-Platonism.\n\nFrom the 15th century religious painting gradually freed itself from the habit of following earlier compositional models, and by the 16th century ambitious artists were expected to find novel compositions for each subject, and direct borrowings from earlier artists are more often of the poses of individual figures than of whole compositions. The Reformation soon restricted most Protestant religious painting to Biblical scenes conceived along the lines of history painting, and after some decades the Catholic Council of Trent reined in somewhat the freedom of Catholic artists.\n\nSecular painting became far more common from the Renaissance, and developed its own traditions and conventions of iconography, in history painting, which includes mythologies, portraits, genre scenes, and even landscapes, not to mention modern media and genres like photography, cinema, political cartoons, comic books and anime.\n\nRenaissance mythological painting was in theory reviving the iconography of the ancient world, but in practice themes like Leda and the Swan developed on largely original lines, and for different purposes. Personal iconographies, where works appear to have significant meanings individual to, and perhaps only accessible by, the artist, go back at least as far as Hieronymous Bosch, but have become increasingly significant with artists like Goya, William Blake, Gauguin, Picasso, Frida Kahlo and Joseph Beuys.\n\nIconography, often of aspects of popular culture, is a concern of other academic disciplines including Semiotics, Anthropology, Sociology, Media Studies and Cultural Studies. These analyses in turn have affected conventional art history, especially concepts such as signs in semiotics. Discussing imagery as iconography in this way implies a critical \"reading\" of imagery that often attempts to explore social and cultural values. Iconography is also used within film studies to describe the visual language of cinema, particularly within the field of genre criticism. In the age of Internet, the new global history of the visual production of Humanity (Histiconologia ) includes History of Art and history of all kind of images or medias.\n\nA non-exhaustive list:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10385099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10385099", "title": "Iron Mountain (riverboat)", "text": "Iron Mountain (riverboat)\n\nThe Iron Mountain was a stern-wheeler that plied the Mississippi River for ten years until sinking in 1882. Built in 1872 on the Ohio River at Pittsburgh, the boat was long and had a beam. The ship ran aground and sank in 1882. However, a common legend claims that it mysteriously disappeared.\n\nThe \"Iron Mountain\" sailed from Vicksburg on March 25, 1882, and hit an obstruction at Stumpy Point, near Island 102, which holed her hull and sank her. The crew scrambled onto one of the barges and escaped. A chambermaid/ship stewardness named Mrs. Ellen Anderson was caught below decks and killed. Her body was recovered the next day with some wreckage, but of the ship itself there was no sign. Further wreckage was found on June 30, several miles from where the boat was lost. The sinking of the ship was reported locally, with articles appearing in the March 27 edition of the Vicksburg \"Daily Commercial\", and the March 28 issue of the \"Daily Memphis Avalanche\". The ship was not found until later, having apparently been refloated by flood waters and carried through a break in a levee, and grounded in a cotton field at Omega Landing, near Tallulah, Louisiana.\n\nA common legend claims that it was travelling from New Orleans to Pittsburgh, loaded with cotton and sugar, when it disappeared. It sailed from Vicksburg, Mississippi, and headed north, towing a string of barges and with 55 crew and passengers aboard. Another steamer, the \"Iroquois Chief\", found the \"Iron Mountain\"s barges floating downriver, apparently having been cut loose, but the ship itself had vanished.\n\nThis legend is often repeated as fact, as in Frank Edward's 1956 book, \"Strangest of All\", Paul Begg's \"Into Thin Air\" (1979), the Reader's Digest's \"Mysteries of the Unexplained\" (1982), Louis L'Amour's \"The Haunted Mesa\" (1987), and Charles Berlitz's \"World of Strange Phenomena\" (1988). Most versions of the story give the date of the \"disappearance\" as 1872, which was in fact the date of the ships launching.\n"}
{"id": "36514837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36514837", "title": "Khor Shingawi", "text": "Khor Shingawi\n\nKhor Shingawi is an archaeological site in Sudan. It is situated about from the Nile to the south of the Merowe Dam. It includes the remains of a palatial building, probably dating to 500 to 1500 AD. Its former role and exact date remains unknown. The building is largely isolated, rectangular in shape, and built of stone. It is divided into three parts, with about 20 rooms and corridors that are located on two levels. The centerpiece is a courtyard with a ramp that leads up to a podium.\n\n"}
{"id": "56494836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56494836", "title": "Khormusan", "text": "Khormusan\n\nKhormusan industry was a Paleolithic archeological industry in Egypt and Sudan dated at 42,000 to 18,000 BP.\n\nThe Khormusan industry in Egypt began between 42,000 and 32,000 BP. Khormusans developed tools not only from stone but also from animal bones and hematite. They also developed small arrow heads resembling those of Native Americans, but no bows have been found. The end of the Khormusan industry came around 18,000 BP. with the appearance of other cultures in the region, including the Gemaian.\n"}
{"id": "1346180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1346180", "title": "Lavalava", "text": "Lavalava\n\nA lavalava, also known as an 'ie, short for 'ie lavalava, is an article of daily clothing traditionally worn by Polynesians and other Oceanic peoples. It consists of a single rectangular cloth worn as a skirt. The term \"lavalava\" is both singular and plural in the Samoan language.\n\nToday the fashion remains common in Samoa, American Samoa, Tonga and parts of Melanesia and Micronesia. It is worn by men and women in uses from school uniforms to business attire with a suit jacket and tie. Many people of Oceanic ethnicity wear the \"lavalava\" as an expression of cultural identity and for comfort within expatriate communities, especially in the United States (notably Hawaii, Alaska, California, Washington, and Utah), Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nThe \"lavalava\" is secured around the waist by an overhand knotting of the upper corners of the cloth; women often tuck the loose ends into the waistband, while men usually allow them to hang in front. Women generally wear ankle-length \"lavalava\" while men's wraps often extend to the knee or mid-calf depending on the activity or occasion.\n\nPrior to the arrival of Europeans in the Pacific Ocean, the most prestigious \"lavalava\" were made by wrapping the body in a \"'ie toga\" with fine mats (finely woven textiles of pandanus leaves) or \"siapo\" (tapa cloth) pounded from paper mulberry or wild hibiscus bark. The Samoans also created \"lavalava\" from traditional materials such as flower petals, leaves, feathers and seashells tied to a wrap-around backing of plaited plant fibers.\n\nCalico and loomed cotton cloth had largely replaced woven or barkcloth \"lavalava\" as articles of daily use (though \"ie toga\" and \"siapo\" wraps are still used today for ceremonial and festive occasions and dance performances). Samoan men who bear the \"pe'a\" body tattoo, as well as Samoan women who bear the \"malu\" leg tattoos often roll the waistband of the \"lavalava\" or tuck in the sides and rear portion(s) of the \"lavalava\" to expose their tattoo during dance performances or ceremonial functions (such as 'ava ceremonies), a style referred to as \"agini\".\n\nSpecially tailored linen \"lavalava\" which extend mid-calf, often with pockets and ties/buckles, are worn by men at special occasions or to church; these are always solid colors (in contrast to the bright patterns of everyday \"lava-lava\") and are known as \"sulu\" (Fijian), \"'ie faitaga\" (Samoan), or \"tupenu\" (Tongan). Similar ankle-length skirts form the lower half of the two-piece formal dress worn by Samoan and Tongan women (called \"puletasi\" and \"puletaha\", respectively). On special occasions the Tongan \"tupenu\" and \"puletaha\" are usually associated with a tapa cloth or waist-mat called \"ta'ovala\" and some Samoans still wear a tapa cloth \"vala\" sash in similar fashion (though the \"vala\" is generally restricted to ceremonial/festive regalia of orators or people acting/dressing as \"taupou\" maidens and \"manaia\" beaus). The formal, tailored linen \"lavalava\" styles of Tonga, Samoa, and Fiji originated with the Fijian noble Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna who introduced the buckled \"sulu\" to Fiji in 1920 following his military service and university education in Europe.\n\nLoudly colored \"lavalava\" made from materials such as satin, velvet, polyester, and sequins have recently been popularized among performance dance groups and village, church, or school-based choirs.\n\nIn English, such garments are generically called sarong, but that word is actually Malay, whereas \"lavalava\" is Samoan, being short for \"ʻie lavalava\" (cloth that wraps around). Another common name for the Polynesian variety is \"pāreu\" (usually spelled \"pareo\"), which is the Tahitian name. In New Caledonia and Wallis and Futuna, lavalava are called \"manou\". A similar simple kind of clothing is the \"lap-lap\" worn in Papua New Guinea and the South Pacific, which is completely open at both sides.\n\n"}
{"id": "51586384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51586384", "title": "Law and Corpus Linguistics", "text": "Law and Corpus Linguistics\n\nLaw and corpus linguistics (LCL) is a new academic sub-discipline that uses large databases of examples of language usage equipped with tools designed by linguists called corpora to better get at the meaning of words and phrases in legal texts (statutes, constitutions, contracts, etc.). Thus, LCL is the application of corpus linguistic tools, theories, and methodologies to issues of legal interpretation in much the same way law and economics is the application of economic tools, theories, and methodologies to various legal issues.\n\nA 2005 law review article by Lawrence Solan noted in passing that corpus linguistics had potential for its application to interpreting legal texts. But the first systematic exploration and advocacy of applying the tools and methodologies of corpus linguistics to legal interpretive questions of law and corpus linguistics came in the fall of 2010, when the BYU Law Review published a note by Stephen Mouritsen, entitled \"The Dictionary is Not a Fortress: Definitional Fallacies and a Corpus-Based Approach to Plain Meaning\". The note argued that dictionaries are the primary linguistic tool used by judges to determine the plain or ordinary meaning of words and phrases, and highlighted the deficiencies of such an approach. In its stead, the note proposed using corpus linguistics. And the note would be later cited by Adam Liptak in a \"New York Times\" article on statutory construction.\n\nLaw and corpus linguistics (LCL) gained greater legitimacy in July 2011 with the first judicial opinion in American history utilizing corpus linguistics to determine the meaning of a legal text: \"In re the Adoption of Baby E.Z.\" In a concurrence in part and in the judgment, Justice Thomas Lee wrote to put forth an alternative ground for the majority's holding—interpreting the phrase \"custody determination\" by using corpus linguistics. Justice Lee looked at 500 randomized sample sentences from the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and found that the most common sense of \"custody\" was in the context of divorce rather than adoption. Further, he found that \"custody\" is ten times more likely to co-occur (or collocate) with \"divorce\" than with \"adoption\". From that evidence Justice Lee concluded that he \"would find that the custody proceedings covered by the Act are limited to proceedings resulting in the modifiable custody orders of a divorce\", rather than the broader range of custody proceedings.\n\nOther jurisprudence and scholarship would follow. In a 2015 concurrence in \"State v. Rasabout\", Justice Lee used a COCA search to determine that \"discharge\" when used with a firearm (or one of its synonyms) overwhelmingly referred to a single shot rather than emptying the entire magazine of the weapon. And in 2016, four of the five justices joined a footnote in a majority opinion by Justice Lee commending a party for using corpus linguistics in its briefing even though the Court found it unnecessary to resolve the related question. Finally, in 2016 the Michigan Supreme Court became the first court to use a linguist-designed corpus in a majority opinion (COCA), with both the majority and the dissent turning to COCA to determine the meaning of the word \"information\".\n\nAs to scholarship, in 2012, Mouritsen followed up his original work with an article in the Columbia Science and Technology Law Review, where he further refined and promoted the use of corpus-based methods for determining questions of legal ambiguity. Additionally, in 2016 two essays and an article on law and corpus linguistics were published. The Yale Law Journal Forum published \"Corpus Linguistics & Original Public Meaning: A New Tool to Make Originalism More Empirical\". Written by Justice Lee and two co-authors, the essay urged originalists to turn to corpus linguistics to improve the rigor and accuracy of originalist scholarship. And in response, the Forum published an essay by Lawrence Solan (a Brooklyn Law professor with a PhD in linguistics), \"Can Corpus Linguistics Help Make Originalism Scientific?\" The Boston University Public Interest Law Journal published \"The Merciful Corpus: The Rule of Lenity, Ambiguity and Corpus Linguistics\" by Daniel Ortner. In the article Ortner applied corpus linguistics to determining whether sufficient ambiguity exists to trigger the rule of lenity in five Supreme Court cases. Looking forward, in 2017 two more articles are slated for publication. Lee Strang focuses on corpus linguistics and originalism in the U.C. Davis Law Review, and Lawrence Solan and Tammy Gales explore corpus linguistics in the context of finding ordinary meaning in statutory interpretation in the International Journal of Legal Discourse.\n\nLawyers and journalists have also taken notice of corpus linguistics at it relates to the law. In 2010, Neal Goldfarb filed the first known brief in the Supreme Court using corpus linguistics (COCA) to determine whether the ordinary meaning of \"personal\" referred to corporations in the case \"FCC v. AT&T\". The amicus brief looked at the top collocates (words that co-occur) of \"personal\" in COHA as well as BYU's Time Magazine Corpus. And writing for The Atlantic, Ben Zimmer took note of this new trend, referring to corpus linguistics in the courts as \"Like Lexis on Steroids\".\n\nOn the academic front, in 2013 BYU Law School started the first class on law and corpus linguistics, co-taught by Mouritsen, Lee, and (now Dean) Gordon Smith. The class is currently in its fourth year. And in February 2016, BYU Law School hosted the inaugural conference on LCL, with over two dozen legal and linguistic scholars from around the country discussing and debating the next steps forward for the growing academic movement. A second conference is scheduled for February 2017. At the conference BYU Law School announced its plans and progress on the Corpus of Founding Era American English (COFEA), a corpus that will cover 1760–1799. To date 120 million words have been collected from founding era letters, diaries, newspapers, non-fiction books, fiction, sermons, speeches, debates, legal cases, and other legal materials.\n"}
{"id": "2800229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2800229", "title": "List of books written by CEOs", "text": "List of books written by CEOs\n\nA list of notable books written by CEOs, about CEOs and business.\n"}
{"id": "58940572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940572", "title": "List of references to Miami in popular culture", "text": "List of references to Miami in popular culture\n\nThis article aims to compile various depictions of Miami in popular culture.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1316481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1316481", "title": "MacGyver", "text": "MacGyver\n\nAngus \"Mac\" MacGyver is the title character and the protagonist in the TV series \"MacGyver\". He is played by Richard Dean Anderson in the 1985 original series. Lucas Till portrays a younger version of MacGyver in the 2016 reboot.. \n\nIn both portrayals MacGyver is shown to possess a genius-level intellect; proficiency in multiple languages; superb engineering skills; excellent knowledge of applied physics; military training in bomb disposal techniques and a preference for non-lethal resolutions to conflicts. MacGyver works for the fictional \"Phoenix Foundation\" in Los Angeles, although in the original series it was an independent think-tank, and in the 2016 reboot it is a clandestine government organization using the cover of a think-tank. In addition to his scientific knowledge and inventive use of common items, he always carries a Swiss Army knife and refuses to carry a gun.\n\nThe character is portrayed as a non-violent problem solver and typically eschews the use of guns. Even in cases where he must resort to physical violence, or when his improvised devices are used to attack hostile opponents, he is always doing so in self-defense and, if possible, subduing or disabling rather than killing. \n\nMacGyver is passionate about social causes, having on several occasions volunteered to help the less-privileged, showing a particular affinity for - and connection with - children. For example, he is shown to be a \"big brother\", conducts hearing research at a school for deaf children, and helps out in a mountain excursion for delinquent youths. He strives to protect the environment and endangered species such as eagles, the black rhino, and wolves. It was also established that he became a vegetarian at an unspecified date during the series run.\n\nMacGyver's persistence and the improvisational nature of his plans make him difficult to thwart, as his nemesis Murdoc pointed out, because not even MacGyver himself knows what he is going to do next. Unlike stereotypical \"macho\" or stoic action heroes, MacGyver exhibits grief in the face of tragedies, open fear in perilous situations, and shows pain after a fight. A sensitive character, Mac has a tendency to blame himself for personal losses and tragedies, like his bad conscience for not being at his mother's deathbed and funeral when he was on a mission in Afghanistan and experiencing a bout of depression after a fatal climbing accident. He also appears to be susceptible to remote temporal retrograde amnesia, which he has experienced more than once after physical head trauma.\n\nMacGyver's most used item is his Swiss Army Knife. In addition to it, MacGyver often carries a roll of duct tape in his back pocket, flattened out to make it fit. Other items he often has on hand are: an ID card, a Timex Camper watch, strike-anywhere matches, a few paper clips, chewing gum, and a flashlight. It was shown that he also carried a toolbox in his Jeep. MacGyver initially used a Jeep Cherokee and then a Jeep Wrangler beginning with Season 2, but in Season 5 he began driving his grandfather Harry's \"classic\" 1946 Chevrolet pickup truck.\n\nMacGyver is proficient to a greater or lesser extent in Russian, German, French, Italian, Spanish, and American Sign Language, and knows how to use International maritime signal flags and Morse code. He is an avid outdoorsman with skills including skiing and outdoor survivalism. Despite an acute fear of heights, he is highly skilled at mountain / rock climbing, hang gliding, and parachuting - static line and ripcord / HALO. His other hobbies include ice hockey, racing, and has shown an interest in the arts of painting and guitar.\n\nHis haircut is a mullet, in a clean-cut, lightly gelled variation on the classic hairstyle.\n\nWhile never being in a long-term on-screen relationship, he has relationships with several women in individual episodes and several previous relationships are hinted at in flashbacks. He is always shown to be on good terms with his past romantic acquaintances.\n\nMacGyver's first name was originally intended to be Stacey, as seen in a press release from Paramount. However, it was never confirmed in any episode, and remained a mystery until the seventh season; whenever he is asked about it, he says he dislikes his first name and quickly changes the subject. His grandfather, Harry Jackson, calls him \"Bud\" or \"Buddy\". Most of his friends and colleagues call him by his last name MacGyver or simply \"Mac\". In the final season his first name is canonically revealed to be Angus when, while knocked unconscious and hallucinating, he meets a 7th-century man named Angus M'Iver (\"son of Ingmarr\") and admits that they share their first name. This revelation is repeated in the series finale, which introduces MacGyver's son as having the middle name Angus, as well as on the packaging of the \"MacGyver\" DVD season sets.\n\nMacGyver's birthdate is given as January 23,1951 and he was raised in Mission City, Minnesota. MacGyver was in the Cub Scouts and a Den Mother by the name of Mrs. Forgery taught him \"backwoods common sense\" and the motto \"Be prepared.\" At the age of 10 his grandmother Celia Jackson and father James MacGyver (Martin Milner) were killed in a car accident in which they both drowned, and MacGyver grew up with his mother, Ellen MacGyver. His grandfather, Harry Jackson (John Anderson) acted as his father, but moved away when MacGyver was sixteen, working for a time in Alaska while sending money to MacGyver and his mother, and eventually settled down as a farmer in Minnesota. At about 12 years of age, MacGyver had a traumatic experience with the accidental shooting death of a friend by a bullet from a falling gun. MacGyver is a lifelong player of ice hockey, having played in his local hockey leagues and coached for a minor league team; he is also a supporter of the Calgary Flames and believed he could have made the NHL. He met Jack Dalton while in high school.\n\nMacGyver went to Western Tech where he graduated with Bachelor's degrees in physics and chemistry. After graduating from college he turned down an offer to work at the nearby nuclear power plant and it is later revealed that he shortly served during the Vietnam War in a bomb defusing team. Five years prior to the start of the series, MacGyver worked as a \"Hell Fighter,\" fighting oil well fires in Sumatra. Sometime during this time MacGyver's mother died of a stroke while he was in Afghanistan on assignment, though no specifics are given other than it being after Christmas. Eventually he moved to Los Angeles where he held numerous jobs until he accidentally meets Peter Thornton, an agent at the Department of External Services. When MacGyver saves Thornton's life using a paper clip, a wrench and shoelaces, MacGyver is offered a job as a field agent at the DXS. \n\nIn the first episode of Season 2, Thornton takes a job as Director of Operations at the Phoenix Foundation, and MacGyver follows, where he is hired as a \"sort of troubleshooter\". He is assigned to a variety of tasks, usually field operations such as conducting environmental surveys and testing security systems. In the fifth season, Harry dies of a heart attack, at which point MacGyver believes he has no remaining relatives. In the second last episode of the show, it is revealed that MacGyver has a son, Sean \"Sam\" Angus Malloy. Sean's mother is the photojournalist Kate Malloy who MacGyver had met after college. Kate had been murdered in China several years prior to MacGyver meeting their son for the first time. After discovering and reuniting with Sean, MacGyver decides to resign from the Foundation in order to spend time with his son.\n\nTwo television specials featuring the character followed, both occurring and released in 1994, two years after the series end. In the first one (\"MacGyver: Lost Treasure of Atlantis\"), MacGyver teams up with his former college archaeology instructor, Professor Atticus (Brian Blessed), to help him prove his theories about ancient Atlantis while dodging the bullets of genocidal Yugoslav troops, a Greek revolutionary and a ruthless treasure hunter. Soon thereafter (\"MacGyver: Trail to Doomsday\"), he investigates the murder of a friend in Britain, and eventually traces it to an unscrupulous businessman who sells nuclear arms research for profit. No mention in either special is made of Pete Thornton, Jack Dalton, MacGyver's son Sean or any of the show's other regulars.\n\n\n\n\nThe term \"MacGyver\" has now become part of the colloquial American English lexicon. When one \"MacGyvers\" a solution to a problem, one finds a simple yet elegant solution to something using existing resources. This is in contrast to a kludge, or a Rube Goldberg, which is generally complicated and problematic.\n\nLucas Till portrays a younger version of Angus \"Mac\" MacGyver in the 2016 reboot of the series. \n\nMacGyver has a genius-level intellect and a particular ability for adaptation and improvisation. He is a resourceful U.S. operative who works for the Phoenix Foundation, a covert U.S. government agency operating under the guise of a think tank. Trained as an EOD technician for the Army, Mac prefers to use non-lethal means to stop his enemies and refuses to carry a gun, though if necessary he will resort to lethal measures. He is never without his trusty Swiss Army knife and uses anything in his environment to his advantage. While not an expert in biology or medicine, MacGyver is shown to be an efficient field medic and knowledgeable in crime scene techniques and DNA sequencing procedures. \n\nHe is afraid of heights, though is able to overcome his fear to finish his missions. Though not an expert fighter, he is shown to be able to temporarily hold off multiple enemies in hand-to-hand combat, typically long enough for him to figure out a way to end the conflict using his adaptation and improvisational skills. He is proficient in multiple languages, including Italian and Mandarin. He also knows Morse code. \n\nHe is shown to be charming, personable, and with an easy ability to make and keep friends. MacGyver shows flashes of intense anger when his friends are threatened or when his father, who disappeared from MacGyver's life at the age of 10, is mentioned. \n\nMacGyver was raised primarily in Mission City, California. His mother passed away when MacGyver was 5, and his father disappeared from MacGyver's life when MacGyver was 10. After his fathers disappearance, MacGyver was raised by his grandfather. MacGyver met best friend Wilt Bozer in the fifth grade, and both graduated from Mission City High School. Bozer and MacGyver are roommates when the series begins, although Bozer initially believes that MacGyver works as an IT expert. MacGyver spent two years at MIT studying physics, though did not graduate. He left MIT to join the Army because he wanted to make an actual difference in people's lives rather thank thinking about theoretical problems, being trained as an EOD technician and spending three years in Afghanistan. In the Army he met Jack Dalton, who was a Delta force soldier. \n\nAfter leaving the Army, MacGyver was hired by the Department of External Services, a government clandestine operation using the guise of a think tank. Eventually, Jack Dalton left his position with the CIA and became MacGyver's partner at DXS; by the time of the series pilot, they had spent three years as partners at DXS. After DXS's original, unnamed, cover is blown a new cover is needed which will allow for a transition of the organizations assets so its work can continue. MacGyver suggests the name \"Phoenix\", after the mythological bird that is reborn by rising from its own ashes, and the organization begins using the cover-name of the \"Phoenix Foundation\".\n"}
{"id": "314328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314328", "title": "Madame Nhu", "text": "Madame Nhu\n\nTrần Lệ Xuân (22 August 1924 – 24 April 2011), more popularly known in English as Madame Nhu, was the \"de facto\" First Lady of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963. She was the wife of Ngô Đình Nhu, who was the brother and chief-advisor to President Ngô Đình Diệm. As Diệm was a lifelong bachelor and because she and her family lived in Independence Palace together with him, she was considered to be the first lady.\n\nKnown for her harsh and incendiary comments that denounced anti-government protests by some Buddhist sects and the strong U.S. influence and presence in the country, she had to live in exile in France after her husband and her brother-in-law, Diệm, had been assassinated in 1963.\n\nTrần Lệ Xuân, whose given name means \"Spring's Beauty,\" was born into a wealthy aristocratic family in Hanoi, French Indochina, then part of the French colonial empire. Her paternal grandfather was close to the French colonial administration, while her father, Trần Văn Chương, studied law in France, and practiced in Bac Lieu in the Mekong Delta before marrying into the ruling imperial dynasty. Her father also served as the first foreign secretary for Indochina under Japanese occupation. Her mother, Thân Thị Nam Trân, was a granddaughter of Emperor Đồng Khánh and a cousin of Emperor Bảo Đại. The Chươngs were under observation by the French police who doubted their loyalty to France with M. Choung dismissed as a \"little runt\" controlled by his wife while Madame Chuong described as \"beautiful and very intriguing...the one who directs her husband\" and she was known for \"her dogged ambition as for her \"coucheries utilitaires\"-sleeping around with people of influence from any and all nationalities\".\n\nLệ Xuân's education at the Lycée Albert Sarraut was entirely in French, and she remembered as a schoolgirl learning about French history and nothing about Vietnamese history and of singing songs about the forests and mountains of France, observing later the purpose of her education was to eradicate any sense of a Vietnamese identity, and to make her into a proper young Frenchwoman. The purpose of French educational policies in Vietnam was always in reference to France's self-proclaimed \"mission civilisatrice\" (\"civilizing mission\") was to make all Vietnamese into \"Frenchmen with yellow skin\", and thus French teachers tried to stamp out any sense of a Vietnamese identity in their students. The message French teachers taught their students was that to be French was to be \"civilized\" and to be Vietnamese was to be \"uncivilized\". She dropped out of Lycée Albert Sarraut, a prestigious French school in Hanoi. She spoke French at home and could not write in Vietnamese; as an adult, she drafted her speeches in French and had them translated into Vietnamese. She gained a reputation in her youth as a tomboy who loved ballet and piano, once dancing solo at Hanoi's National Theatre. She had an elder sister named Trần Lệ Chi (who married the Frenchman Etienne Oggeri and changed her name to Lechi Oggeri) and a younger brother, Trần Văn Khiêm. Like many other Vietnamese, Lệ Xuân was to find that no matter how hard she tried to be French, that the French were only prepared to accept whites as French.\n\nWhen she became an adult, her mother introduced her to a series of eligible young men, but she insisted on Nhu. He was fourteen years older and referred to her as \"little niece\" in accordance with Vietnamese custom. In accordance with Vietnamese tradition, they were married three years after being betrothed in 1940. In May 1943, aged 18, she married Nhu, and converted from Mahayana Buddhism to Roman Catholicism, her husband's religion. Madame Nhu later admitted she married Nhu as a way of getting away from her family, saying \"I never had a sweeping love. I read about such things in books, but I do not believe that they really existed. Or perhaps only for a very few people\". After an uprising by the Viet Minh in August 1945, her brother-in-law, Ngô Đình Khôi, the eldest of the Ngô brothers, was buried alive, and Nhu and another brother, Ngô Đình Cẩn, were forced to flee. \n\nShe, her mother-in-law and her eldest daughter, at the time a baby, were captured. Thinking her piano was a radio for communicating with French colonialists, the Viet Minh blew it up and then exiled her to a remote village for four months, where she lived on two bowls of rice a day. The French dismissed Nhu from his post at the National Library due to his brother (Diệm)'s nationalist activities, and he moved to Đà Lạt and lived comfortably, editing a newspaper, where his wife bore three more children. The French war in Vietnam made little impression on Madame Nhu from her home in Đà Lạt, and she often called the war \"une guerre bizardouille\" (\"a bizarre little war\") as the fighting never affected her personally. Nhu was during these years building a secret political party called the Can Lao (Personalist Labour Party) based on the Catholic philosophy of personalism (people were persons, not individuals) while Madame Nhu later saying \"I was alone most of the time. My husband would simply disappear without a word\". To improve her husband's career, Madame Nhu befriended her cousin, the Emperor Bao Dai during this time.\n\nMadame Nhu's brother-in-law, Ngo Dinh Diem, had been appointed Prime Minister of the State of Vietnam by her mother's distant cousin, Emperor Bảo Đại, after the French had been defeated at the Battle of Điện Biên Phủ. At the start of 1955, French Indochina was dissolved, leaving Diệm in temporary control of the south. After the French defeat at the Battle of Điện Biên Phủ, the French wanted to hang on to a zone of influence in the south by keeping the Emperor Bảo Đại as Head of State, while the Americans wanted to push the French out by having Diem create a republic . Diem in the words of an American diplomat had developed \"a blind hatred of the French\" and the Americans believed that South Vietnam needed an anti-Communist leader who was not tainted with any associations with the French, which led them to back Diem. Madame Nhu had lobbied Bao Dai to appoint her brother-in-law Prime Minister and believed that it was her influence that led to the appointment. She was deeply shocked to learn the real reason why Bao Dai had appointed Diem Prime Minister was out of the expectation that he would fail in order to neutralize him as the State of Vietnam was in a serious political and economic crisis by 1954 that almost nobody expected Diem to master, and she never forgave either the Emperor or the French for their plot to ruin Diem. \n\nIn order to ensure American support for Diem, Madame Nhu befriended Americans working at the embassy in Saigon known to be CIA agents. For their part, the French backed General Nguyễn Văn Hinh as Prime Minister, and he in his turn had won the support of the Binh Xuyen crime syndicate that dominated the economic life of Saigon. Giving Madame Nhu an additional reason to intrigue against Hinh was his repeated boasting that when he deposed Diem he would make Madame Nhu into another of his concubines. At a party, Madame Nhu confronted Hinh to tell him: \"You are never going to overthrow this government because you don't have the guts. And if you do overthrow the government, you will never have me because I will claw your throat out first!\" \n\nTo win support for Diem, Madame Nhu hit upon the idea of enlisting support from the million or so refugees from North Vietnam, many of them Catholics who fled to the south after the Geneva accords had partitioned Vietnam, organizing them for a massive pro-Diem demonstration on 21 September 1954. The rally in Saigon led a confrontation on the streets between Madame Nhu and Binh Xuyen gunmen, with Nhu daring the thugs to kill her right then and there, which caused them to demur, and the rally went on. Emboldened by this triumph, Diem saw a chance to put his puritanical Roman Catholic values into practice and to strike a blow at the Binh Xuyen at the same time by shutting down the brothels, gambling houses and opium dens of Saigon owned by the Binh Xuyen while having pornographic magazines burned on the streets (the Binh Xuyen were the largest producers and sellers of pornography in Vietnam).\n\nA referendum was scheduled for 23 October 1955, to determine the future direction of the south. It was contested by Bảo Đại, the Emperor, advocating the restoration of the monarchy, while Diệm ran on a republican platform. The elections were held, with Nhu and the family's Cần Lao Party, which supplied Diệm's electoral base, organising and supervising the elections. Campaigning for Emperor Bảo Đại was prohibited, and the result was rigged, with Bảo Đại's supporters attacked by Nhu's paid thugs. Diệm claimed 98.2% of the vote, including 605,025 votes in Saigon, where only 450,000 voters were registered. Diệm's tally exceeded the registration numbers in other districts. As a result, Diệm eliminated the Emperor Bao Dai and became the first president of South Vietnam. Madame Nhu made no secret of her dislike for the Emperor Bao Dai, calling him \"that French puppet\".\n\nAfter the election, the couple moved into the Presidential Palace. Madame Nhu was influential on government policy and, since her brother-in-law, Ngô Đình Diệm, was unmarried, she was regarded as the First Lady of South Vietnam. She attempted to combine Roman Catholicism with herself as a modern reincarnation of Vietnam's fabled Trưng Sisters, who temporarily defeated the invading Hán Dynasty Chinese troops in AD 40. President Diem never married and is not known to have had a relationship with any women, through his bodyguard noted he was fond of keeping \"good looking men around him\". Diem, who was known for his poor social skills, decided to have his sister-in-law serve as the unofficial First Lady of South Vietnam. Madame Nhu frequently talked to the Vietnamese, French and foreign press quite candidly. Madame Nhu's marriage was unhappy as she wrote in her diary of an all consuming \"rising desire\" in her body, complained her husband had little interest in sex with her, and wrote with disgust of his affections for a younger woman whom she called that \"creature\" who was very \"vulgar\" and \"dirty\". Madame Nhu devoted her time to politics, championing a new Family Code she presented to parliament in October 1957 and passed in June 1958 to replace the old French code that banned concubinage and polygamy; allowed women to open bank accounts and own property; and required that daughters be given greater inheritance rights.\n\nIn 1962, she had a statue erected in Saigon to the memory of the Trưng Sisters, with the facial features modelled on herself, and also established the Women's Solidarity Movement, a female paramilitary organization. The statue cost US$20,000, a substantial sum at the time, given that South Vietnam was a developing country, but she was undeterred by criticism about largesse. She pressured the wives of ARVN officers and public servants into joining her \"movement\". A flamboyant woman, Madame Nhu took to flashing around her handgun in public, and the Women's Solidarity Movement was intended to allow Vietnamese women to participate in the fight against the Viet Cong, just as the Trung sisters had fought against the Chinese, but most of the women who joined the movement were upper-class women who believed that their husbands would benefit by being given government jobs.\n\nHer father became the ambassador to the United States while her mother was South Vietnam's observer at the United Nations. Two of her uncles were cabinet ministers. Her parents resigned from their posts in 1963, in protest over the treatment of Buddhists under the regime of President Diệm and disowned their daughter.\n\nHoward Jones says \"Madame Nhu was chauffeured in a black Mercedes and wore a small diamond crucifix\", and \"wore form-fitting apparel so tight that one French correspondent suggestively described her as 'molded into her ... dress like a dagger in its sheath.' On formal occasions, she wore red satin pantaloons with three vertical pleats, which was the mark of the highest-ranking women of the imperial court in ancient Annam.\" When Diệm once criticized her apparel, she snapped: \"It's not your neck that sticks out, it's mine. So, shut up.\"\n\nDuring her brother-in-law's presidency, Madame Nhu pushed for the passing of \"morality laws\" outlawing abortion, adultery, divorce, contraceptives, dance halls, beauty pageants, boxing matches, and animal fighting, and closed down the brothels and opium dens. She was widely mocked by the public who regarded her as a hypocrite, with older Vietnamese believing her \"décolleté\" gowns to be sexually suggestive. In Vietnam's Confucian culture, overt displays of sexuality are considered inappropriate. Her family received further scorn as her sister Trần Lệ Chi, who was married to Nguyển Hữu Châu, had a French lover named Etienne Oggeri, and critics alleged that Madame Nhu introduced the \"morality laws\" so that her sister's husband could not get a divorce. Since he was extremely wealthy, the Ngô family would have lost highly valuable assets. In addition, her brother, Khiêm, used his government connections to bilk rich entrepreneurs. Diệm had stated before becoming President, \"The history of China bears witness to the grave crises brought on by the empresses and their relatives.\" The Diệm regime tended to favor giving high positions to Roman Catholics, which alienated the Buddhist majority over the time. \n\nMadame Nhu exerted influence with her fiery attitude, often abusing Diệm and Nhu, who bowed to her angry tirades. Madame Nhu was frequently mocked by the media for her ostentatious flaunting of power, and was sometimes called the \"Dragon Lady\", as well as \"Lucretia Borgia\" and \"Queen Bee\". She once stated \"Power is wonderful. Total power is totally wonderful.\" In Vietnam, Madame Nhu was called the Tiger Lady as dragons are considered lucky and benevolent (mythical) animals in Vietnamese culture that are the wise and kindly friends of humanity whereas the tiger is considered a symbol of ferocity, and many Vietnamese found the term \"Dragon Lady\" mystifying and insulting. She once told a group of American congressmen, \"I'm not exactly afraid of death. I love power and in the next life I have a chance to be even more powerful than I am.\" U.S. Defense Secretary McNamara noted that \"I saw Madame Nhu as bright, forceful, and beautiful, but also diabolical and scheming—a true sorceress.\"\n\nShe had a message to Diệm's opponents: \"We will track down, neutralize and extirpate all these scabby sheep.\" French journalist François Sully wrote that Madame Nhu was \"conceited, and obsessed with a drive for power that far surpasses that of even her husband ... It is no exaggeration to say that Madame Nhu is the most detested personality in South Vietnam.\" Sully was promptly expelled from Vietnam by the Ngô family.\n\nMadame Nhu claimed that she and her husband were responsible for Diệm's triumph over the Bình Xuyên in the Battle for Saigon in 1954. She claimed it was the family's destiny to save South Vietnam. Following the collapse of the coup, her influence in the family began to rise.\n\nAs her husband's influence grew, as did her own vicariously, so did American distaste for them. Wesley Fishel, the anti-Communist academic from Michigan State University who had led an advisory group that helped to train Vietnamese public servants and who had lobbied American politicians in the 1950s to support Diệm's bid for power, resigned along with his staff. Fishel called Madame Nhu \"Brilliant, vivacious, bitchy and brutal in her Borgia-like fashion\", claiming that she and her husband were evil influences corrupting the regime.\n\nShe often exerted her influence through bouts of shouting. Sometimes when she disagreed with a proposal or decision that had been made inside the palace by some ministers or other senior public servants, she would verbally abuse them and intimidate them into adopting her preferred stance.\n\nOn 27 February 1962, two dissident Republic of Vietnam Air Force pilots, Nguyễn Văn Cử and Phạm Phú Quốc, bombed the Independence Palace, the official residence of the Ngô family, with the aim of assassinating them. One bomb landed in a room where Diệm was reading, but failed to detonate. The family escaped to the cellar unhurt, except for Madame Nhu, who sustained an arm fracture while running for cover.\n\nDiệm reacted to the bombing by cracking down on political dissidents and further tightening control of the press. Madame Nhu added, \"[y]ou open a window to let in light and air, not bullets. We want freedom, but we don't want to be exploited by it.\" In a radio interview in late-1962, she mockingly remarked that American journalists were \"intoxicated with communism.\"\n\nThe following year she instructed her Women's Solidarity Movement to oppose American attempts \"to make lackeys of Vietnamese and to seduce Vietnamese women into decadent paths.\" As relations became strained, she publicly accused the Americans of having supported the 1960 coup.\n\nOn 8 May 1963, a series of celebrations were held by Buddhist priests all over South Vietnam to honor Buddhist holiday of Vesak, as 8 May was the 2,527th anniversary of Lord Buddha's birthday. The Catholic Diem disapproved of Vesak, and ordered the police to put the Vesak celebrations under a law which forbade religious symbols from being paraded in the streets. A series of clashes occurred all over South Vietnam as the police sought to end the marches. When she heard that Diệm was to sign a statement offering compensation to the families of Buddhist protesters shot dead by the police of his brother Ngô Đình Cẩn, she was reported to have thrown a bowl of soup at him. On 8 June 1963, Madame Nhu released a statement through the Women's Solidarity Movement accusing the Buddhists of neutralism, effectively accusing them of being communist collaborators. It then implored \"bonzes of good faith\" to stop helping the communists, otherwise Vietnamese Buddhism would be seen as a \"small anti-nationalist branch of a dubious international association, exploited and controlled by communism and oriented to the sowing of the disorder of neutralism\" and calling on Diem to \"immediately expel all foreign agitators whether they wear monks' robes or not.\" She made another attack on the United States, calling on Diệm to \"keep vigilance on all others, particularly those inclined to take Viet Nam for [a] satellite of [a] foreign power or organization.\" Madame Nhu publicly mocked Thích Quảng Đức, who performed a self-immolation on 11 June 1963 in a crowded Saigon street to protest against the shooting of Buddhists by Diệm's regime. She labelled it a \"barbecue\" and stated, \"Let them burn and we shall clap our hands.\" She further offered to provide more fuel and matches for the Buddhists, noting the \"barbecuing\" was not \"self-sufficient\" because \"imported gasoline\" was used. The monk's suicide followed Ngo Dinh Nhu's repression of the Buddhist-inspired protests and was responsible for the regime's continuing instability. According to historian Howard Jones, these comments \"all but put the finishing touch on the Diệm regime\".\n\nHer own father went on radio to condemn her comments. A Confucian, Chương said that the regime had alienated \"the strongest moral forces\", implying that they had lost the Mandate of Heaven. She responded by calling him a \"coward\". Her mother said that \"There is an old proverb in my country which means 'one should not make oneself or one's family naked before the world'... I was sick... Now, nobody can stop her ... She never listened to our advice.\" After these comments, the U.S. ambassador, Frederick Nolting, told Diệm that if he did not denounce his sister-in-law's comment in public, the U.S. would have to stop supporting him, but the president refused to do so, and assailed the monks. In an interview with David Halberstam, Madame Nhu said that it was \"embarrassing to see people [Buddhist leaders] so uncultured claiming to be leaders\". The U.S. embassy told Diệm that these comments violated an agreement between the Buddhists and his regime to avoid verbal exchanges, but Diệm refused to keep his family's end of the bargain, saying that his sister-in-law was obliged to expose \"extremists\" to keep the public informed. In July, the US government rejected a request from her to travel to the United States for a public speaking tour, fearing a public relations disaster. On 3 August, she called the Buddhists \"seditious elements who use the most odious Communist tactics to subvert the country.\"\n\nThis occurred after special forces loyal to the Ngôs raided the Xá Lợi Pagoda in Saigon in August. The pagoda was vandalized, monks beaten, and the cremated remains of Thích Quảng Đức, which included a heart which had not disintegrated, were confiscated. Simultaneous raids were carried out across the country, with the Từ Đàm Pagoda in Huế being looted, the statue of Gautama Buddha demolished, and the body of a deceased monk stolen. When the populace came to the defense of the monks, the resulting clashes saw 30 civilians killed and 200 wounded. Notably, President Diem sent his sister-in-law a letter asking her not to talk in public about the clashes as her \"barbecue\" remarks had been a public relations disaster for his regime, both at home and abroad. Through her paramilitary organization, Madame Nhu claimed that the Buddhists were \"controlled by communism\" and that they were manipulated by the Americans, calling on Diệm to \"expel all foreign agitators whether they wear monks' robes or not\". A few days after the raids, Madame Nhu described the deadly attacks on the Buddhists as \"the happiest day in my life since we crushed the Bình Xuyên in 1955\", and assailed them as \"communists.\"\n\nThe United States, in a position of some leverage owing to the considerable US aid flowing into South Vietnam, in August 1963 wished to give President Diệm a chance to rid himself of both his brother and Madame Nhu. In a cable drafted by Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, Roger Hilsman, to Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge, Lodge was instructed to advise Diệm of a call for \"the removal of the Nhus from the scene.\" U.S. President Kennedy supported the message in the cable upon its approval by most of his advisors.\n\nHer comments further stoked open infighting with her parents, who would eventually disown her and seek refuge in the United States. Her father, Trần Văn Chương, the ambassador to the United States, resigned in protest, along with all but one of the staffers at the embassy. Chương charged Diệm with having \"copied the tactics of totalitarian regimes\". His wife, who was South Vietnam's observer at the United Nations, resigned and spoke of mass executions and a reign of terror under Diệm and Nhu. She predicted that if Diệm and Nhu and Madame Nhu did not leave Vietnam then they would inevitably be killed. Madame Nhu claimed Buddhist leader Thích Trí Quang \"spoke for many intellectuals who had repeatedly ridiculed her.\"\n\nFollowing the pagoda raids, Trí Quang was given asylum at the U.S. Embassy after Ngô Đình Nhu's plans to assassinate him were uncovered. Madame Nhu gave a media interview in which she called on government troops to invade the American embassy and capture Thích Trí Quang and some other monks who were staying there, saying that the government must arrest \"all key Buddhists\". In a media interview, her husband responded to his parents-in-law by vowing to kill his father-in-law, claiming his wife would participate. He said \"I will have his head cut off. I will hang him in the center of a square and let him dangle there. My wife will make the knot on the rope because she is proud of being a Vietnamese and she is a good patriot.\"\n\nWhen acting U.S. ambassador William Trueheart warned that development aid might be withheld if the repression orchestrated by the Ngôs continued, Madame Nhu denounced it as \"blackmail\". Nhu and Diệm, fearing a cut in aid, sent Madame Nhu to the United States on a speaking tour. She departed South Vietnam on 9 September 1963 in an expedition that brought widespread international scorn to her family's regime. She had predicted \"a triumphant lecture tour\". She left on 17 September for the Inter-Parliamentary Union meeting in Yugoslavia, followed by a trip to Italy and possibly to the United States, where she had an invitation to speak before the Overseas Press Club of New York.\n\nMadame Nhu's comments were such that President John F. Kennedy became personally concerned. He asked his advisers to find means of having Diệm gag her. McGeorge Bundy thought her comments were so damaging that it would only be acceptable for Ngô Đình Diệm to remain in power if she were out of the picture. The National Security Council deemed her a threat to U.S. security, and told the then United States Ambassador to South Vietnam, Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. to seek her permanent removal from South Vietnam.\n\nThere was also speculation that she could turn up at the United Nations in New York and embarrass South Vietnam and the U.S. Bundy said in a meeting that \"this was the first time the world had been faced with collective madness in a ruling family since the days of the czars\" and her comments provoked much debate on how to get Diệm to silence her.\n\nIn Madame Nhu's first destination, Belgrade, she said in an interview that \"President Kennedy is a politician, and when he hears a loud opinion speaking in a certain way, he tries to appease it somehow\", referring to the opposition to her family's rule. She continued: \"if that opinion is misinformed, the solution is not to bow to it, but the solution should be to inform.\"\nThe issue resulted in an awkward confrontation when U.S. Defense Secretary Robert McNamara and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Maxwell Taylor, traveled to Vietnam for a fact-finding mission about the progress of the war. One of the purposes of the mission was to achieve, in the words of President Kennedy, \"a visible reduction in influence of Nhus, who are symbol to disaffected of all that they dislike in GVN. This we think would require Nhus' departure from Saigon and preferably Vietnam at least for extended vacation.\"\n\nIn the 29 September 1963 meeting with Diệm, McNamara bemoaned \"the ill-advised and unfortunate declarations of Madame Nhu\", who had described U.S. military advisors as \"acting like little soldiers of fortune\". McNamara said that such comments would damage bilateral military cooperation and deter American officers from helping the South Vietnamese forces. Lodge denounced the comments and said, \"These men should be thanked, not insulted.\" However, one of his aides lost his composure and asked if \"there were not something the government could do to shut her up.\" Diệm was stunned by the comments and retorted that \"one cannot deny a lady the right to defend herself when she has been unjustly attacked\", saying his sister-in-law was entitled to freedom of speech. But McNamara reinforced the point, noting to Diem that \"This is not satisfactory. The problems were real and serious. They had to be solved before the war could be won.\"\n\nMadame Nhu arrived in the United States on 7 October, and her arrival was greeted by the United Nations' launching of an inquiry into the repression of Buddhists in South Vietnam. Kennedy had resisted the temptation to deny her an entry visa and his administration soon came under a flurry of verbal attacks.\n\nDespite U.S. Vice President Lyndon Johnson's advice for her to stop damaging relations with inflammatory remarks, Madame Nhu refused to back down, describing herself as a \"scapegoat\" for American shortcomings and failures. She went on to accuse the administration of betraying her family, saying \"I refuse to play the role of an accomplice in an awful murder ... According to a few immature American junior officials—too imbued by a real but obsolete imperialist spirit, the Vietnamese regime is not puppet enough and must be liquidated.\" She accused the Americans of undermining South Vietnam through \"briberies, threats and other means\" to destroy her family because they \"do not like\" it. She further mocked Kennedy's entourage, asking why \"all the people around President Kennedy are pink?\"\n\nShe denounced American liberals as \"worse than communists\" and Buddhists as \"hooligans in robes\". Her father did not share the same beliefs and followed her around the country rebutting her comments, denouncing the \"injustice and oppression\" and stating that his daughter had \"become unwittingly the greatest asset to the communists.\" She predicted that Buddhism would become extinct in Vietnam. The Oram Group, the Madison Avenue PR firm that had been hired to promote Diem's image in the U.S. for $3,000 per month ended its relationship with Diem during Madame Nhu's visit under the grounds she had so badly damaged the image of the Diem government in America that there was nothing that could be done to improve his image and a continued association was going to cost the Oram Group other clients. American journalists had discovered Madame Nhu was \"unfortunately too beautiful to ignore\" as a Kennedy administration staffer complained, and that it was easy to provoke her into saying something outrageous, causing a media circus to develop around her as she traveled across America.\n\nIn the wake of the tumultuous events, Madame Nhu appeared on NBC-TV's \"Meet the Press\" on 13 October 1963, defending her actions and those of the South Vietnamese government. \"I don't know why you Americans dislike us ... Is it because the world is under a spell called liberalism? Your own public, here in America, is not as anti-Communistic as ours is in Vietnam. Americans talk about my husband and I leaving our native land permanently. Why should we do this? Where would we go? To say that 70 percent of my country's population is Buddhistic is absolutely true. My father, who was our ambassador to the United States until two months ago, has been against me since my childhood.\"\n\nOn 2 November 1963, Diệm and Nhu were assassinated in a \"coup d'état\" led by General Dương Văn Minh (Armed Forces Council) with the understanding that the United States would not intervene. At the time of the assassinations, Madame Nhu was in Beverly Hills, California, traveling with her 18-year-old daughter, Ngô Đình Lệ Thủy. Her other children were in Vietnam at the family retreat in Đà Lạt and she feared that they would meet the same fate as their father. The children were not harmed by the generals and were flown out of the country into exile in Rome, where they were placed in the custody of their uncle, Archbishop Thục. Madame Nhu later flew to Rome to join them.\n\nIn response to the killings of Diệm and Nhu, she immediately accused the United States, saying \"Whoever has the Americans as allies does not need enemies\", and that \"No coup can erupt without American incitement and backing\". She went on to predict a bleak future for Vietnam and said that, by being involved in the coup, the troubles of the United States in Vietnam were just beginning. She called the deaths an \"indelible stigma\" against the U.S. and said \"My family has been treacherously killed with either official or unofficial blessing of the American government, I can predict to you now that the story is only at its beginning.\" She invoked biblical analogies, saying \"Judas has sold the Christ for thirty pieces of silver. The Ngô brothers have been sold for a few dollars.\" When asked if she wanted asylum in the United States, she said, \"I cannot stay in a country whose government stabbed me in the back. I believe all the devils in hell are against us.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the coup, the statues of the Trưng Sisters that Madame Nhu had erected with her own facial features were demolished by jubilant anti-Diệm rioters. The \"Times of Vietnam\" office was also burned down, and the newspaper was never published again.\n\nThe military government of Vietnam under General Dương Văn Minh confiscated all of the property in Saigon that belonged to Madame Nhu and her family, and she was not allowed to return to South Vietnam. She went to Rome briefly before moving permanently to France with her children. Her daughter, Lệ Thủy, died in 1967, at age 22, in a car accident in Longjumeau, France.\n\nIn November 1982 Madame Nhu accorded a first significant interview on the historic events in Vietnam to Judith Vecchione in Rome. Vecchione was a producer for \"\". The series subsequently aired on PBS in 1983.\n\nOn 2 November 1986, Madame Nhu charged the United States with hounding her family during the arrest of her younger brother, Trần Văn Khiêm, who was charged in the strangling deaths of their parents in their Washington, D.C. home after being cut out of their will.\n\nIn 1993, she sued her parents' insurance company to prevent it from awarding their death benefit because she contested the validity of their wills. Her parents allegedly changed their wills, disinheriting their son Khiem and Madame Nhu and making their sister Le Chi the sole beneficiary.\n\nIn the 1990s, she was reportedly living on the French Riviera and charging the press for interviews. In 2002, she gave an interview to journalist Truong Phu Thu of \"Dân Chúa Mỹ Châu\", a Vietnamese Catholic community publication. It was published in October 2004. The article stated that she was living in Paris and working on her memoirs.\n\nIn her last years, she lived with her eldest son, Ngô Đình Trác, and youngest daughter, Ngô Đình Lệ Quyên, in Rome, and was reportedly working on a book of memoirs to be published posthumously.\n\nIn early April 2011, she was taken to a hospital in Rome where she died three weeks later, on Easter Sunday, 24 April 2011. News of her death was announced by her sister Lechi Oggeri, while family friend Truong Phu Thu was interviewed by BBC News afterwards.\n\n\nIn the early 1960s, Madame Nhu popularized a tight-fitting version of the traditional \"áo dài\" (long dress) that was considered controversial in its day, due to its tight fit and low-cut neckline. According to Boi Tran Huynh, a scholar of Vietnamese visual arts, \"To foreigners, this collar made sense, given the tropical conditions, but conservatives saw it as too suggestive for Vietnamese women.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54877538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54877538", "title": "Mantineia Base", "text": "Mantineia Base\n\nThe Mantineia Base is an ensemble of three ancient Greek bas relief plaques, one of which depicts Apollo, Marsyas and a silenus, and the other two of which each show a group of three Muses. They were discovered in 1887 on the site of the ancient Gree city of Mantineia in Arcadia and were probably decoration for a statue base. They have been attributed to the sculptor Praxiteles or another member of his workshop. They are currently kept in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens, where their inventory numbers are NAMA 215-217.\n\nOn 11 August 1887 in the course of excavations at Mantineia by the French School at Athens, the archaeologist Gustave Fougères discovered the three plaques, which had been reused in the floor of a Byzantine church. The upper part had been heavily worn by the passage of the parishioners, but the side facing downwards still bore sculpted decoration in a good state. The plaques were immediately transferred to the National Archaeological Museum of Athens, where they were restored.\n\nThey are made of white marble, which was once identified as the marble of Doliana, near Tegea, but is now recognised to be Pentelic marble. The three plaques have very similar dimensions: NAMA 216 is 1.35 m wide and 0.96 m high; NAMA 215 and 217 are 1.36 m by 0.96 m and 0.98 m respectively. Their depth varies from 8 to 12 cm. They are decorated in the same way: on the upper part, an Echinus moulding above a broad flat band, on the lower edge there is a concave moulding and another broad flat band. Each panel has three attachment holes in the same locations. These aspects indicate that they were all made together..\n\nEach plaque depicts three figures on a blank background. They are juxtaposed simply, without any complicated compositional features.\n\nAt left, the god Apollo is represented seated, with long hair, wearing a chiton and himation, and holding a kithara in his left hand which rests on his left knee. With his right hand he grabs a fold in his himation. At right, Marsyas is shown with a beard, his left leg bent, playing the aulos (double flute). In the centre a bearded man is standing, wearing a kind of Phrygian cap, a chiton, and \"anaxyrides\" (trousers), holding a knife in one hand. Based on the identifications of the other two figures, he must be the servant who flays Marsyas after he loses his musical contest against Apollo.\n\nThe other two plaques represent the Muses, who, in some versions of the myth of Marsyas, were the judges of the contest. The Muses are differentiated. On NAMA 215, the one on the left holds an aulos, the one in the centre holds the folds of her himation, and the one on the right is seated and plays a little string instrument - perhaps a bandora. On NAMA 217, the left Muse holds some unrolled parchment, the central Muse holds a rolled-up scroll in her left hand, and the right Muse holds up a kithara in her right hand. Canonically, there were nine Muses, so presumably there was a fourth plaque depicting the missing three Muses.\n\nWhen he published the discovery, Fougères suggested that the three palques decorated the sides of a rectangular pedestal and suggested that they be associated with a passage of Pausanias who mentions in his description of Mantineia, \"a sanctuary of Leto and her children; it was Praxiteles who made the statues, two generations after Alcamenes; on their base there are carvings of a Muse and a Marsyas playing the aulos.\"\n\nThis text which has been transmitted mentions only a single Muse and presents a difficulty in that while representations of Marsyas playing the flute with a single Maenad are common, there are no known representations of Marsyas playing the flute with a single Muse. To resolve the problem, it has been suggested that Pausanias, whose descriptions are often very vague, was confused and has mistaken Apollo for a Muse. Fougères proposed to emend Μοῦσα (Muse) to Μοῦσαι (Muses), a correction which has been widely accepted since.\nThe main objection to this hypothesis concerns the proposed arrangement of the base, with the plaque of Apollo and Marsyas on the front, the plaques of the Muses on the sides. This would create a base measuring 1.36 x 1.36 metres, which would be too small for the three statues that Pausanias mentions. The three plaques could instead be arranged next to one another, with Apollo and Marsyas in the centre and the Muses on either side, but there are no traces of attachments for connecting the plaques on their sides, which argues against this hypothesis. It has been proposed to see the plaques as the decoration for a platform for the competitors of a musical contest which took place every year in Arcadia according to Polybius. Indeed, one of the heads of the Muses of NAMA 217 was recovered from the ruins of the theatre. However, this reconstruction is not supported by any archaeological evidence..\n\n"}
{"id": "19105567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19105567", "title": "Marburg Journal of Religion", "text": "Marburg Journal of Religion\n\nThe Marburg Journal of Religion is a peer-reviewed online academic journal that publishes articles on empirical and theoretical studies of religion. The first issue having appeared in April 1996. The original concept was developed by Michael Pye together with his assistant Richard Böhme, who was the first Web Editor. The editorial team was broadened in 1999 to include Peter Antes (Hannover) and Andreas Grünschloß (Göttingen) and in 2007 Edith Franke (Marburg). Doreen Christen became Web Editor in 2002. The first separate Reviews Editor was Monika Schrimpf (from 2001) and this role was taken up by Katja Triplett from 2003.\n\nPapers published in the \"Marburg Journal of Religion\" are documented and abstracted in the bibliographical journal \"Science of Religion\", now published by Brill Publishers in Leiden. The abstracts published in the \"Marburg Journal of Religion\" itself may be published elsewhere on condition that full documentation of the article is provided.\n"}
{"id": "36822955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36822955", "title": "Media culture", "text": "Media culture\n\nIn cultural studies, media culture refers to the current Western capitalist society that emerged and developed from the 20th century, under the influence of mass media. The term alludes to the overall impact and intellectual guidance exerted by the media (primarily TV, but also the press, radio and cinema), not only on public opinion but also on tastes and values.\n\nThe alternative term mass culture conveys the idea that such culture emerges spontaneously from the masses themselves, like popular art did before the 20th century. The expression media culture, on the other hand, conveys the idea that such culture is the product of the mass media. Another alternative term for media culture is \"image culture.\"\n\nMedia culture, with its declinations of advertising and public relations, is often considered as a system centered on the manipulation of the mass of society. Corporate media \"are used primarily to represent and reproduce dominant ideologies.\" Prominent in the development of this perspective has been the work of Theodor Adorno since the 1940s. Media culture is associated with consumerism, and in this sense called alternatively \"consumer culture.\"\n\nThe news media mines the work of scientists and scholars and conveys it to the general public, often emphasizing elements that have inherent appeal or the power to amaze. For instance, giant pandas (a species in remote Chinese woodlands) have become well-known items of popular culture; parasitic worms, though of greater practical importance, have not. Both scholarly facts and news stories get modified through popular transmission, often to the point of outright falsehoods.\n\nHannah Arendt's 1961 essay \"The Crisis in Culture\" suggested that a \"market-driven media would lead to the displacement of culture by the dictates of entertainment.\" Susan Sontag argues that in our culture, the most \"...intelligible, persuasive values are [increasingly] drawn from the entertainment industries\", which has spelt the \"undermining of standards of seriousness.\" As a result, \"tepid, the glib, and the senselessly cruel\" topics are becoming the norm.\nSome critics argue that popular culture is \"dumbing down\": \"newspapers that once ran foreign news now feature celebrity gossip, pictures of scantily dressed young ladies... television has replaced high-quality drama with gardening, cookery, and other \"lifestyle\" programmes [and] reality TV and asinine soaps,\" to the point that people are constantly immersed in trivia about celebrity culture.\n\nAccording to Altheide and Snow, media culture means that within a culture, the media increasingly influences other institutions (e.g. politics, religion, sports), which become constructed alongside a media logic. Since the 1950s, television has been the main medium for molding public opinion.\n\nIn Rosenberg and White's book \"Mass Culture\", Dwight Macdonald argues that \"Popular culture is a debased, trivial culture that voids both the deep realities (sex, death, failure, tragedy) and also the simple spontaneous pleasures... The masses, debauched by several generations of this sort of thing, in turn come to demand trivial and comfortable cultural products.\" Van den Haag argues that \"all mass media in the end alienate people from personal experience and though appearing to offset it, intensify their moral isolation from each other, from the reality and from themselves.\"\n\nCritics have lamented the \"replacement of high art and authentic folk culture by tasteless industrialised artefacts produced on a mass scale in order to satisfy the lowest common denominator.\" This \"mass culture emerged after the Second World War and have led to the concentration of mass-culture power in ever larger global media conglomerates.\" The popular press decreased the amount of news or information and replaced it with entertainment or titillation that reinforces \"fears, prejudice, scapegoating processes, paranoia, and aggression.\" Critics of television and film have argued that the quality of TV output has been diluted as stations pursue ratings by focusing on the \"glitzy, the superficial, and the popular\". In film, \"Hollywood culture and values\" are increasingly dominating film production in other countries. Hollywood films have changed from creating formulaic films which emphasize \"shock-value and superficial thrill[s]\" and the use of special effects, with themes that focus on the \"basic instincts of aggression, revenge, violence, [and] greed.\" The plots \"often seem simplistic, a standardized template taken from the shelf, and dialogue is minimal.\" The \"characters are shallow and unconvincing, the dialogue is also simple, unreal, and badly constructed.\"\n\nMore recently, scholars turned to the concept of the mediatization of culture to address the various processes through which culture is influenced by the modus operandi of the media. On one hand, the media are cultural institutions and artifacts of their own, on the other hand, other domains have become dependent on the media and their various affordances.\n\nMedia culture, in its mass marketing, has been compared to the role of religions in the past. It has been considered as taking the place of the old traditional religions. The waves of enthusiasm and fervent exaltation for a given product, a characteristic consumerist phenomenon, has been compared to the \"ecstasies of the convulsions and miracles of the old religious fetishism\".\n\nConversely, the Catholic Church, the dominant religious institution in the Western world, has been considered retrospectively as an antecedent and sophisticated form of public relations, advertiser and multinational corporation, selling its product to a mass of worshipers/consumers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4555662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4555662", "title": "Meher Spiritual Center", "text": "Meher Spiritual Center\n\nThe Meher Spiritual Center is a spiritual retreat along the Atlantic Ocean between Myrtle Beach and North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina and adjacent to Briarcliffe Acres. The Center was established by Elizabeth Chapin Patterson and Princess Norina Matchabelli in the early 1940s under the guidance of Indian spiritual master Meher Baba as \"A place of pilgrimage for all time\". Its stated purpose is to exist as a \"retreat for rest, meditation, and renewal of the spiritual life.”\n\nThe Meher Spiritual Center is also designated as a South Carolina wildlife sanctuary, with more than 200 species of plants, 100 species of birds and 44 species of animals. The Center has two lakes, many nature trails, and a mile of Atlantic shoreline. The Center has a house built for Meher Baba which is named \"Meher Abode\" but usually referred to as \"Baba's House.\" Meher Baba stayed there during his three visits to America in the 1950s. Meher Baba inaugurated the Meher Center in 1952 and also visited in 1956 and 1958.\n\nMeher Baba requested that the land for his center in America meet certain criteria. They were: the place must have equitable climate, virgin soil, ample water, soil that could be made self-sustaining to a large number of people, and the property should be given from the heart. Elizabeth Patterson and Norina Matchabelli originally sought land in other parts of the United States including California. But no land met all the requirements. Eventually Elizabeth Patterson's father, Simeon B. Chapin, who was one of the original developers of Myrtle Beach, gave her the land as a gift. He felt that it was not suitable for his resort plans since its lakes obstructed access to the beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "1063788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1063788", "title": "Mercy Brown vampire incident", "text": "Mercy Brown vampire incident\n\nThe Mercy Brown vampire incident occurred in Rhode Island, US, in 1892. It is one of the best documented cases of the exhumation of a corpse in order to perform rituals to banish an undead manifestation. The incident was part of the wider New England vampire panic.\n\nSeveral cases of consumption (tuberculosis) occurred in the family of George and Mary Brown in Exeter, Rhode Island. Friends and neighbors believed that this was due to the influence of the undead. An attempt was made to remediate.\n\nIn Exeter, Rhode Island, several members of George and Mary Brown's family suffered a sequence of tuberculosis infections in the final two decades of the 19th century. Tuberculosis was called \"consumption\" at the time and was a devastating and much-feared disease.\n\nThe mother, Mary Eliza, was the first to die of the disease, followed in 1883 by their eldest daughter, Mary Olive. In 1891, daughter Mercy and son Edwin also contracted the disease. Friends and neighbors of the family believed that one of the dead family members was a vampire (although they did not use that name) and had caused Edwin's illness. This was in accordance with threads of contemporary folklore linking multiple deaths in one family to undead activity. Consumption was a poorly understood condition at the time and the subject of much superstition.\n\nGeorge Brown was persuaded to give permission to exhume several bodies of his family members. Villagers, the local doctor, and a newspaper reporter exhumed the bodies on March 17, 1892. The bodies of both Mary and Mary Olive exhibited the expected level of decomposition, so they were thought not to be the cause. However, the corpse of a daughter, Mercy, exhibited almost no decomposition. She still had blood in the heart. This was taken as a sign that the young woman was undead and the agent of young Edwin's condition. (Her lack of decomposition was more likely due to her body being stored in freezer-like conditions in an above-ground crypt during the two months following her death.) \n\nAs superstition dictated, Mercy's heart and liver were burned, and the ashes were mixed with water to create a tonic and was given to the sick Edwin to drink, as an effort to resolve his illness and stop the influence of the undead. The young man died two months later. What remained of Mercy's body was buried in the cemetery of the Baptist Church in Exeter after being desecrated.\n\nThe Mercy Brown incident was the inspiration for Caitlín R. Kiernan's short story \"So Runs the World Away\", which makes explicit reference to the affair. It has also been suggested by scholars that Bram Stoker, the author of the novel \"Dracula\", knew about the Mercy Brown case through newspaper articles and based the novel's character Lucy Westenra upon her. It is also referred to in H. P. Lovecraft's \"The Shunned House\". Mercy Brown's story was the inspiration for the young adult novel \"Mercy: The Last New England Vampire\" by Sarah L. Thomson. An account of the events as told by the remaining descendants of Mercy is available in Michael E. Bell's \"Food for the Dead: On the Trail of New England's Vampires\". \n\nThe Mercy Brown incident is depicted in the 2015 film \"Almost Mercy\", written by rapper B. Dolan and Tom DeNucci. Directed by DeNucci, the film stars Bill Moseley and Kane Hodder. The film's main characters Emily (played by Danielle Guldin) and Jackson (Jesse Dufault) visit the grave of Mercy Brown and call themselves the \"Friends of Mercy\". In a flashback sequence, the film's characters from the present day appear as characters in the story of Mercy. B. Dolan also wrote a song from the perspective of a fictitious party involved in the case in his song \"The Hunter\" from his 2010 album \"Fallen House, Sunken City\".\n\nThe Mercy Brown story was the main subject of the first episode of the \"Lore\" podcast in 2015, as well as the first episode of the television adaptation of the same name in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40342084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40342084", "title": "Mumbaqat", "text": "Mumbaqat\n\nTall Munbāqa (also Ekalte (Mumbaqat)) is a 5,000-year-old town complex in northern Syria now lying in ruins. The ruins are located on the east bank, on a steep slope, of the upper course of the Euphrates. In the 3rd and 2nd millennium BC the city was an important city-state in the region. Due to the establishment of the Tabqa Dam at Al-Thawrah, 35 kilometers west of Raqqa, the city ruins are partially flooded today by Lake Assad. Situated high above the steep drop of the eastern shore, Tall Munbāqa is still preserved.\nThe Euphrates was one of the highways, the Asia with the Mediterranean combined. Of course one of the main trade routes between the Sumerian and later Babylonian centers of power and the Syrian coastal cities and the immediate access to the main navigable river can be considered as one of the basic motives for founding this city. Trade was driving to urban planning. Town authorities and city destruction characterize the Urbanisationsfieber of the 3rd and 2nd millennium BC in northern Syria, where the river from the Armenian highlands turns to the south-east, 200 km from the nearby Mediterranean were major trading centers. From there, the road passes over the northern Syrian plateau of Aleppo. Starting from the 4th millennium BC, Sumerian trading sites are detectable here. In the 3rd millennium, the height of the cultural and economic development, according to the model developed chiefdom Sumerian cities. The Old Syrian kingdom reached the 2nd millennium BC to the Euphrates. The Mitannistaat the Hurrians dominated a few centuries out the northeast of the modern-day Syria to the Euphrates. In the 14th century BC ruled the Hittites northern Syria and the Euphrates was the boundary area between the Assyrian and Hittite Empire. Around 1200 BC settled the Syrians on the Euphrates. This eventful history may be seen from the numerous ruins of hills along the 90 km long reservoir. One of the largest excavated ruins of this ancient cultural landscape Tall Munbāqa.\n\nIn 1907, the English explorers William M. Ramsay and Gertrude Bell discovered the ruins, drew up a plan and described the ramparts: \"Munbayah where my tents were pitched - the Arabic name means only a high-altitude course - was probably the Bersiba in Ptolemy's list of city names. It consists of a double ramparts, situated on the river bank.\" Though Bell was wrong in the localization of Bersiba, she did recognize the importance of the mound for the study of the oriental city. \n\nThe 400 m x 500 m, rectangular town ruins, once strongly fortified, were documented and investigated 1964, on the occasion of the inspection of the area for a proposed reservoir. The German Oriental Society requested an excavation permit for the mound in 1968. In 1969-1970, Ernst Heinrich of the Berlin Institute of Technology measured the visible remains and in 1971 the excavation of these remains were carried out. In 1973 and 1974, excavations were led by Winfried Orthmann and in 1977 by Alfred Werner Maurer, both of the University of Saarbrücken. From 1979 on Dittmar Machule of the Technical University of Hamburg-Harburg was the director. During the excavations in 1973, 1974 and 1977 up to 16 scientists and 90 local workers were involved in the excavations. Thanks to the discovery of 15 Late Bronze Age clay tablets mentioning the name of the city, it is now believed that it was known in this period as \"Ekalte\" and it has been suggested that earlier, in the Old Babylonian period, the city bore the name Yakaltum.\n\nExcavation was resumed in 1999 and continued in six seasons until 2010 under Machule and Felix Blocher.\nThe exposed during the 1974 excavation East Gate is located on ♁ 36 ° 13 '9 \" N , 38 ° 7 '54 \" O36.219159 38.131635, the south gate on ♁ 36 ° 13 '1 \" N , 38 ° 7 '44 \" O36.217047 38.12891 .\nThe exposed during the 1974 excavation East Gate is located on ♁ 36 ° 13 '9 \" N , 38 ° 7 '54 \" O36.219159 38.131635, the south gate on ♁ 36 ° 13 '1 \" N , 38 ° 7 '44 \" O36.217047 38.12891\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27803177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27803177", "title": "Nafeh", "text": "Nafeh\n\nNafeh () is an Iranian monthly magazine, published in Tehran. It is a literary and art magazine.\n\nThe first edition of \"Nafeh\" was published in Tehran in 1998. It is managed by Nahid Tavasoli and its chief editor is Mohammad Ghouchani. It is similar in style and layout to magazines such as Shahrvandemroz and Irandokht, which have been banned by Iranian judiciary system. The chief editor of these magazines was also Mohammad Ghouchani.\n\nThe editorial board of Nafeh include journalists, who worked previously in Iranian magazines and newspapers such as \"Shahrvandemroz\", \"Irandokht\", \"Etemadmelli\" and Shargh, which were banned by the Iranian judiciary.\n\n\"Nafeh\" publishes interviews with authors, poets, artists, directors about their works. \"Nafeh\" also publishes critiques of novels, films and the visual arts.\n\nIn this magazine has been published interviews with many writers, poetss, film directors, composers and singers such as Victor Erofeyev, Ahmad Shamlou, Orhan Pamuk, Günter Grass, Mahmoud Dolatabadi, Abbas Kiarostami, Asghar Farhadi, Kamran Shirdel, Bahman Farmanara, Shahrdad Rohani, Alireza Assar and Mohammad-Reza Lotfi.\n"}
{"id": "4604305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4604305", "title": "National Schism", "text": "National Schism\n\nThe National Schism (, \"Ethnikos Dikhasmos\", sometimes called The Great Division) was a series of disagreements between King Constantine I and Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos regarding the foreign policy of Greece in the period of 1910–1922 of which the tipping point was whether Greece should enter World War I. Venizelos was in support of the Allies and wanted Greece to join the war on their side, while the pro-German King wanted Greece to remain neutral, which would favor the plans of the Central Powers.\n\nThe disagreement had wider implications, since it would also affect the character and role of the king in the state. The dismissal of Venizelos by the King resulted in a deep personal rift between the two and in subsequent events their followers divided into two radically opposed political camps affecting the wider Greek society.\n\nWith the contrary actions of Venizelos permitting the landing of Allied forces in Thessaloniki and the unconditional surrender of a military fort in Macedonia to German-Bulgarian forces by the king, the disagreements of the two men started to take the form of civil war. In August 1916, followers of Venizelos set up a provisional state in Northern Greece, with Entente support, with the aim of reclaiming the lost regions in Macedonia, effectively splitting Greece into two entities. After intense diplomatic negotiations and an armed confrontation in Athens between Allied and royalist forces the king abdicated on 11 June 1917, and his second son Alexander took his place.\n\nVenizelos returned to Athens on 29 May 1917 and Greece, now unified, officially joined the war on the side of the Allies, emerging victorious and securing new territory by the Treaty of Sèvres. The bitter effects of this division were the main features of Greek political life until the 1940s, and contributed to Greece's defeat in the Greco-Turkish War, the collapse of the Second Hellenic Republic and the establishment of the dictatorial Metaxas Regime.\n\nThe main cause of the conflict was the dispute between Venizelos and King Constantine over power in Greece, in which the development of true representation had been slow since the creation of the state. Up till the 1870s and the King's acceptance of the principle that the leader of the majority party in Parliament should be given the mandate to form a government, the formation of political groupings around a leader who could govern if this pleased the King meant that the supposedly parliamentary government was actually at the monarch's discretion.\n\nMany reformists and liberals viewed meddling by the monarchy in politics as deleterious. The negative public attitude towards the monarchy was strengthened by the defeat of the Greek army, headed by Constantine (then the Crown Prince), in the Greco-Turkish War of 1897. Many of these hopes for reform were also shared by young officers in the Hellenic Army, who felt humiliated by the defeat, and who were influenced by republicanism.\n\nA \"Military League\" was formed, and on 15 August 1909, they issued a pronunciamiento at the Goudi barracks in Athens. The movement, which demanded reforms in government and military affairs, was widely supported by the public; King George was forced to give in to the military's demands. He appointed Kyriakoulis Mavromichalis as Prime Minister and accepted the dismissal of the Princes from the military.\n\nHowever, it soon became apparent that the leadership of the League was not able to govern the country, and they looked for an experienced political leader, who would also preferably be anti-monarchist and not tainted by the \"old-partyism\" of the old system. The officers found such a man in the person of Eleftherios Venizelos, a prominent Cretan politician, whose clashes with Prince George, the island's regent, seemed to confirm his anti-monarchist and republican credentials.\n\nWith Venizelos' arrival, the League was sidelined, and the energetic and relatively young politician soon dominated Greek political life. His government carried out a large number of overdue reforms, including the creation of a revised constitution. However, he also established a close relationship with the King, resisted calls to transform the revisionary assembly into a constitutional one, and even reinstated the Princes in their positions in the army, with Crown Prince Constantine as its Inspector-General.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Balkan Wars, Constantine was immediately appointed again as commander-in-chief, and the successes of the army in the field, especially in the Second Balkan War against the Bulgarians, helped many forget his record in 1897. Constantine, now king, was being hailed as \"laurel-crowned\" and \"Bulgar-slayer\". It was however during this war that the first tension between Constantine and Venizelos surfaced, in a dispute over the army's course following the victory at Sarantaporo. Constantine wanted to march due north, towards Monastir, while Venizelos was anxious that the army should turn east, towards the strategically important city and harbor of Thessaloniki.\n\nThe anxiety of Venizelos was doubled by the fact that the Bulgarians had also set their eyes on the city, the most important in Macedonia, and were sending their own troops towards it. Eventually Venizelos prevailed, and the Greeks captured the city only a few hours before the arrival of the Bulgarians. This episode was not publicised at the time, and in the aftermath of the Wars, the two men, King and Prime Minister, both wildly popular, were seen as making up a formidable partnership at the helm of the Greek state.\n\nAs the Great War began, the Greek authorities had to choose between neutrality and aligning themselves with the Allied forces. Outright participation in the war on the side of the Central Powers was not an option, both because of Greece's vulnerability to the Royal Navy and because, from early on (October 1914), Greece's traditional enemy, the Ottoman Empire, had joined in on Germany's side. Hence, neutrality was the course favored by most pro-German Greeks, including the senior, German-educated, leadership of the General Staff, who had great influence over the King.\n\nKing Constantine's German affiliations were exaggerated in the Entente's propaganda during the war. It is true that Queen Sofia was the sister of the German Kaiser, Wilhelm II, and Constantine himself had been educated in Germany and admired German culture. On the other hand he was descended on his father's side from the Glucksbergs of Denmark and on his mother's side from the Romanovs of Russia, spoke perfect English, was a frequent visitor to England and had relatives there. \n\nGreece had an ongoing mutual defense pact with Serbia, a member of the Allied forces, who were asking for support after they were invaded by Austria-Hungary (see Serbian Campaign (World War I)).\nHowever, Constantine believed it was in the greater interests of Greece to remain neutral. His considerable military experience and knowledge made him especially conscious of the threat to Greece from Bulgaria's powerful military in the event that the Hellenic Army was engaged in a war with Austria-Hungary. The Prime Minister, Venizelos, was strongly in favor of joining the Entente, as he believed that Greece would gain new lands and fulfill the Megali Idea.\n\nIn January 1915, in an attempt to convince the Greeks to side with them, Britain offered Greece post-war concessions in Asia Minor (currently part of Turkey). Venizelos felt this was very much in Greece's interests and attempted to force a bill through the Greek parliament to join the Allies. He also adivsed King Constantine to convene the Crown Council, which he did. It met twice, on February 18 and on February 20. In these meetings, Venizelos presented his case for joining the Entente, a course of action which was opposed by opposition leader Theotokis, but Rallis supported. Staunch opposition by the King, Army generals (including the General Staff and Ioannis Metaxas) and their supporters, forced Venizelos to resign shortly afterwards (on March, 6).\n\nThe resignation caused political dissension in Greece, a diplomatic battle between the King and Venizelos' supporters forced a general election in June 1915. These elections were won by Venizelos' Liberal Party and he resumed his post as Prime Minister, however Constantine refused to ratify the appointment of the new government until August.\n\nDuring this time the Serbian-Bulgarian conflict deepened until Bulgaria declared war on Serbia, which posed an immediate threat to the newly gained province of Macedonia, including the strategically important port of Thessaloniki.\nVenizelos asked Constantine for permission to formalize a defense treaty with Serbia in the interests of protecting the Greek border from direct Bulgarian attack. Constantine agreed but only on the condition that Greece was actually attacked. After his inability to sway Constantine to act against Bulgaria, Venizelos took a new route by allowing British and French troops to land in Thessaloniki, Macedonia in aid of Serbia, after their failed operation at Gallipoli. This caused disarray in the Greek government and Venizelos took advantage of this by forcing through a parliamentary motion (with a 37-vote margin) to declare war on Bulgaria.\n\nThe invitation to the Allies by Venizelos enraged the King. The dispute between the Greek Prime Minister and the King reached its height shortly after and the King invoked the Greek constitutional right that gave the monarch the right to dismiss a government. In December 1915 Constantine forced Venizelos to resign for a second time and dissolved the Liberal-dominated parliament, calling a new election. Venizelos left Athens and moved back to his native Crete.\n\nThe Liberals boycotted this second election, which undermined the new Royalist government's position, as it was seen as a government directly appointed by the King, disregarding popular opinion. The tension between the two parties grew gradually over the course of the following year with both sides taking a more radical and divisive approach to the situation. Public opinion was not nearly as clearly divided during this period. When French and British forces landed in Thessaloniki (as invited by Venizelos earlier) against Constantine's wishes the Greek people supported the King's view that the Allies had violated the country's sovereignty. However, later on, when the Central Powers took control of eastern Macedonia in May 1916, the public took similar outrage at the King's inability to defend Greek territory.\n\nAugust 30, 1916, saw a coup against the Royalist government by \"Ethniki Amyna\" (Εθνική Άμυνα, \"National Defence\"), a secret pro-Venizelist military organization based in Thessaloniki. The coup succeeded to the extent that a second provisional government of Greece was formed by the group in Thessaloniki. With the backing of the Entente, Venizelos returned to the Greek mainland from Crete to lead the new provisional government at the head of a triumvirate. He declared: \"we are not against the King, but against the Bulgarians\". Towards the end of 1916 France and Britain, after failing to persuade the royalist government to enter the war too, officially recognized the \"Ethniki Amyna\" government as the lawful government of Greece.\n\nIn retaliation against \"Ethniki Amyna\" a royalist paramilitary unit called the \"Reservists\" (Επίστρατοι) was formed. Led by Colonel Ioannis Metaxas (one of Constantine's closest aides and a future dictator of Greece) the group targeted Venizelist people in Athens and nearby areas, culminating in the \"Noemvriana\", the \"November events\", which were ignited by an armed confrontation between Greek reservists and French marines.\n\nΙn retaliation, the Venizelos National Defence Government and the Entente instituted a naval blockade, seized the royalist fleet and demanded the partial disarmament of the royalist forces and their withdrawal to the Peloponnese. \n\nThe monarchists blamed Venizelos for having the idea of the blockade. It lasted 106 days in total, during which time no goods were allowed to enter or leave royalist-controlled ports that were under the control of the Athens government. This was to set a precedent for much of the future conflict in Greece.\n\nThe Venizelist-Entente blockade eventually succeeded in its aim. In June 1917, after threats to bombard Athens if the King remained, Constantine left Greece leaving the Crown to his second son Alexander. Venizelos took control of the government and pledged Greek support to the Entente. In July the country officially declared war on the Central Powers. During the remaining 18 months of the war 10 divisions of the Greek army fought alongside the Allied forces against Bulgarian and German forces in Macedonia and Bulgaria. During the conflict Greek forces participated in many victorious battles losing approximately 5,000 troops.\n\nThe act of entering the war and the preceding events resulted in a deep political and social division in post-World War I Greece. The country's foremost political formations, the Venizelist Liberals and the Royalists, already involved in a long and bitter rivalry over pre-war politics, reached a state of outright hatred towards each other. Both parties viewed the other's actions during the First World War as politically illegitimate and treasonous.\n\nThis enmity inevitably spread throughout Greek society, creating a deep rift that contributed decisively to the Asia Minor Disaster and resulted in continued political and military unrest in the interwar years during the troubled Second Hellenic Republic. The National Schism was also one of the principal causes that led to the collapse of the Republic and the institution of the dictatorial 4th of August Regime in 1936.\n\nThe division between Royalists and Venizelists even came to the United States and elsewhere with the Greek immigrants of that generation: immigrants favouring the two political camps would settle in nearby but carefully separated communities in American cities, often centred on competing Greek Orthodox parishes. In some cases, the animosity and mistrust between such parishes has survived into the 21st century, long after the original political disagreement was forgotten.\n\n"}
{"id": "586814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586814", "title": "Neo-feudalism", "text": "Neo-feudalism\n\nNeo-feudalism or new feudalism refers to a theorized contemporary rebirth of policies of governance, economy, and public life reminiscent of those present in many feudal societies, such as unequal rights and legal protections for common people and for nobility.\n\nThe concept of \"neofeudalism\" may focus on economics. Among the issues claimed to be associated with the idea of neofeudalism in contemporary society are class stratification, globalization, mass immigration/illegal immigration, open borders policies, multinational corporations, and \"neo-corporatism\".\n\nIn early use, the term was deployed as both a criticism of the political Left and of the Right.\n\nAn early example critical of the Left the essay 'Neo-Feudalism' by John Kenneth Galbraith published in 1961. The term is still used by some on the right in that sense in the twenty-first century:\n\nAlthough he would later become a naturalized American citizen, Soros remains in social outlook very much a European and believer in the paternalistic neo-feudalism euphemistically called \"democratic socialism\" or \"social democracy.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Jürgen Habermas used the term \"Refeudalisierung\" ('refeudalisation') in his 1962 \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" to criticise the privatisation of the forms of communication that he believed had produced an Enlightenment-era public sphere. While not talking about 'neo-feudalism' as such, later commentators have noted that these ideas are similar to the idea of neo-feudalism. Correspondingly, in 1992 Immanuel Wallerstein expressed views on global development, listing neo-feudalism among three other variants. By \"neo-feudalism\", Wallerstein referred to autarky regions with a localised hierarchy and hi-tech goods available only for elite.\n\nAccording to Les Johnston, Clifford Shearing's theoretical approach of neofeudalism has been influential. Shearing \"use[s] this term in a limited sense to draw attention to the emergence of domains of mass private property that are ‘gated’ in a variety of ways\".\n\nLucia Zedner responds that this use of neo-feudalism is \"too\" limited in scope; Shearing's comparison does not draw parallels with earlier governance explicitly enough. Zedner prefers more definitive endorsements.\n\nNeofeudalism entails an order defined by commercial interests and administered in large areas, according to Bruce Baker, who argues that this does not fully describe the extent of cooperation between state and non-state policing. The significance of the comparison to feudalism, for Randy Lippert and Daniel O'Connor, is that corporations have power similar to states' governance powers. Similarly, Sighard Neckel has argued that the rise of financial-market-based capitalism in the later twentieth century has represented a 'refeudalisation' of the economy.\n\nThe widening of the wealth gap, as poor and marginalized people are excluded from the state's provision of security, can result in neofeudalism, argues Marina Caparini, who says this has already happened in South Africa. Neofeudalism is made possible by the commodification of policing, and signifies the end of shared citizenship, says Ian Loader. A primary characteristic of neofeudalism is that individuals' public lives are increasingly governed by business corporations, as Martha K. Huggins finds.\n\nJohn Braithwaite notes that neofeudalism brings a different approach to governance, since business corporations in particular have this specialized need for loss reduction.\n\nIn the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, Seattle-based technology billionaire Nick Hanauer prominently stated that \"our country [i.e. the USA] is rapidly becoming less a capitalist society and more a feudal society\". His views were echoed by, amongst others, the Icelandic billionaire Björgólfur Thor Björgólfsson. The idea that the early twentieth-century boom and bust in Iceland saw the country returning to feudal structures of power was also expressed by a range of Icelandic novellists, among them Sigrún Davíðsdóttir in \"Samhengi hlutanna\", Bjarni Bjarnason in \"Mannorð\", Bjarni Harðarson in \"Sigurðar saga fóts\", Böðvar Guðmundsson in \"Töfrahöllin\", and Steinar Bragi in \"\". Similar ideas are found in some Anglophone fiction. For example, Frank Herbert's \"Dune\" series of novels is set in the distant future with a neofeudalistic galactic empire known as the Imperium after the Butlerian Jihad which prohibits all kinds of thinking machine technology, even its simpler forms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3525268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3525268", "title": "Nexus grammar", "text": "Nexus grammar\n\nNexus grammar is a system of analysing text which was first used in Denmark. It was a system that was heavily advanced by the Danish Linguist Otto Jespersen. It most often refers to the relationship between the action and the subject in the sentence. This system has been developed to include symbols for most parts of speech.\n\n The ball dropped.\n\nThe X in the sentence refers to the subject while the O refers to the action.\n\nThe X and O are still the same but the brackets round the (x) tell the reader it is the subject's predicate.\n\n"}
{"id": "19027841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19027841", "title": "Open Humanities Press", "text": "Open Humanities Press\n\nOpen Humanities Press is an international open access publishing initiative in the humanities, specializing in critical and cultural theory. OHP's editorial board includes leading scholars such as Alain Badiou, Jonathan Culler, Stephen Greenblatt, Jean-Claude Guédon, J. Hillis Miller, Antonio Negri, Peter Suber and Gayatri Spivak among others.\n\nThe Open Humanities Press (OHP) is a scholar-led publishing initiative founded by Paul Ashton (Australia), Gary Hall (UK), Sigi Jöttkandt (Australia) and David Ottina (US). Its aim is to raise awareness of open access publishing in the humanities and to provide promotional and technical support to open access journals that have been invited by OHP's editorial oversight group to join the collective.\n\nOHP launched in May 2008 with seven open access journals and was named a \"beacon of hope\" by the Public Library of Science. In August, 2009 OHP announced it will begin publishing open access book series edited by senior members of OHP's board. \n\nThe monograph series are:\n\nJournals\n\nOpen Humanities Press also host several open access journals, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25426934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25426934", "title": "Orden del Pop", "text": "Orden del Pop\n\nThe Orden del Pop (\"Order of the Mat\") is an annual award bestowed by the Museo Popol Vuh at Guatemala's Universidad Francisco Marroquín. Created in 1998, the Orden del Pop recognises \"the work of individuals who have made significant contributions towards the protection, study and research of Guatemala's cultural heritage\".\n\nSource: UFM\n"}
{"id": "3170274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3170274", "title": "Rocaille", "text": "Rocaille\n\nRocaille was a French style of exuberant decoration, with an abundance of curves, counter-curves, undulations and elements modeled on nature, that appeared in furniture and interior decoration during the early reign of Louis XV of France. It was a reaction against the heaviness and formality of the Style Louis XIV. It began in about 1710, reached its peak in the 1730s, and came to an end in the late 1750s, replaced by neoclassicism. It was the beginning of the French baroque movement in furniture and design, and also marked the beginning of the Rococo movement, which spread to Italy, Bavaria and Austria by the mid-18th century.\n\nRocaille was exuberant and inspired by nature like Rococo, but, unlike Rococo, it was usually symmetrical and not overloaded with decoration. It took its name from the mixture of rock, seashell and plaster that was used to create a picturesque effect in grottos during the Renaissance, and from the name of a seashell-shaped ornament which was frequent feature of Rocaille decoration. In 1736 the designer and jeweler Jean Mondon published the \"Premier Livre de forme rocquaille et cartel\", a collection of designs for ornaments of furniture and interior decoration. It was the first appearance in print of the term \"rocaille\" to designate the style.\nThe style was used particularly in salons, a new style of room designed to impress and entertain guests. The most prominent example was the salon of the Princess in Hôtel de Soubise in Paris, designed by Germain Boffrand and Charles-Joseph Natoire (1735–40). The characteristics of French Rococo included exceptional artistry, especially in the complex frames made for mirrors and paintings, which sculpted in plaster and often gilded; sinuous curves and counter-cures, and the use of vegetal forms (vines, leaves, flowers) intertwined in complex designs. The leading furniture designers in the style included Juste-Aurele Meissonier and Charles Cressent, along with the wood craftsman Nicolas Pineau. \nRocaille decoration was heavily loaded with decoration modeled on seashells, cascades of leaves and flowers, palm leaves, and other natural elements. The decor on walls and furniture was usually made of carved wood or plaster which was gilded. The French designer Bernard Toro produced a book of flamboyant early Rocaille patterns in 1716 which was widely circulated in Europe. The first major craftsman in the style was Juste-Aurèle Meissonnier, followed by Jean Bérain the Elder, Gilles-Marie Oppenordt, Nicolas Pineau, and the sculptor-modelers Thomas Germain, Jacques Caffieri, and the German Jean-Claude Duplessis. \n\nThe master cabinet makers or \"ébénistes\" of rocaille furniture included Mathieu Criaerd (1689-1776), who became a master in 1738. He was particularly known both for his fine marquetry or inlay, and for his chests with a Chinese or Japanese theme, with fine Chinese lacquer or Martin varnish, and ornaments of gilded and sculpted bronze. .\n\nAnother important figure of the rocaille style was the ébéntiste Charles Cressent (1685-1768), who was a master craftsman both in the guild of wood carvers and bronze ornament sculptors, a rare accomplishment earned respectively in 1708 and 1714. Cressent made furniture not only for Louis XV, but also for the King of Portugal and for the Elector of Bavaria. He is best known for his commodes, book cases and desks,which were often inlaid with rosewood and violet wood and equipped with particularly fine rocaille ornament of gilded bronze, including infants intermingled with birds and cascading vegetation. He introduced several stylistic innovations, including the \"espagnolettes à aigrette\", small busts of young women, applied to the corners of his commodes and desks. This became a common decoration used by other masters of the rocaille.\n\nOther notable furniture craftsmen included the members of the Cresson family, Louis Cresson (1706-1761), Rene Cresson (1705-49) and Michel Cresson (1709–81), all of whom provided exceptionally crafted chairs, armoires, commodes and other furnishings for royal residences. Their children also became \"menuisiers\" and \"ebenistes\" during the reign of Louis XVI. . \nRocaille decoration was common in the wooden wall panels and other interior decoration between 1730 and 1750. The trim was usually made of carved and gilded wood or stucco against a white background. The panels in the frames often also had decorative painting, usually of arabesques or colorful floral patterns, and often featured animals or exotic subjects, set in China, Japan, or Turkey. \n\nBesides its use in furniture, the style appeared in porcelain and metalwork. In 1738, the Manufacture de Vincennes was founded, thanks to the support of Louis XV and Madame de Pompadour, in order to compete with the manufactories at Chantilly and Meissen. In 1756, the manufactury was moved to a building in Sèvres, built at the initiative of Madame de Pompadour, near her château.\n\nThe most remarkable rocaille metal work included the cast iron and gilded fences and gates created by iron maker Jean Lamour for the new Place Stanislas in Nancy between 1750 and 1758 as the Duchy of Lorraine was attached to France. The square was completed with an ensemble of buildings whose balconies and suspended lamps which matched the grillwork of the fence and gates. \n\nThe Rocaille influenced the Chippendale style in England, and the work of the Belgian-born Bavarian decorative artist François de Cuvilliés. The style also became very popular for a time in Italy, particularly in Venice, and spread to Austria, Bavaria and Spain, where it took on a more exuberant and overcharged form.\n\nThe discoveries of Greek antiquities beginning in 1738 at Herculanum and especially at Pompeii in 1748 turned French architecture in the direction of the more symmetrical and less flamboyant neo-classicism and the Louis XV style. Furniture and decoration became more geometric; furniture legs became straight, resembling Roman or Grecian columns, and the ornate carving on the exterior of furniture was increasingly replaced by fine inlays of multicolored wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "47739844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47739844", "title": "Skunked term", "text": "Skunked term\n\nA skunked term is a word that becomes difficult to use because it is transitioning from one meaning to another, perhaps inconsistent or even opposite, usage. Purists may insist on the old usage, while descriptivists may be more open to newer usages. Readers may not know which sense is meant.\n\nThe term was coined by lexicographer Bryan A. Garner in his 2008 edition of Garner's Modern American Usage and has since been adopted by some other style guides.\n\nGarner recommends avoiding such terms if their use may distract from the meaning of a text.\n\nSome terms, such as \"fulsome\", may become skunked, and then eventually revert to their original meaning over time.\n\n\"Decimate\" used to mean 'to kill one in ten' (from the Roman practice of decimation), but now means 'to destroy' or 'to kill nine out of ten.'\n\n\"Hopefully\" used to mean 'in a hopeful manner' but has come to mean 'it is hoped' since the early 1960s.\n\nOther examples include \"niggardly\", \"Oriental\", \"data\", and \"media\".\n\nThe 2013 Oxford English Dictionary's definition of \"literally\" to include \"figuratively\" and, towards 2014, the conflation of 'deep web' with 'dark web'.\n\nA 'moot point' in British English has historically meant a point that is worth debating, but the meaning is shifting towards that in US English of a point that is irrelevant or academic.\n"}
{"id": "59035422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59035422", "title": "Social media as a news source", "text": "Social media as a news source\n\nSocial media as a news source is the use on online social media platforms to obtain news. Just as television turned a nation of people who \"listened\" to media content into \"watchers\" of media content in the 1950s to the 1980s, the emergence of social media has created a nation of media content creators. According to 2011 Pew Research data, nearly 80% of American adults are online and nearly 60% of them use social networking sites. More Americans get their news via the Internet than from newspapers or radio, as well as three-fourths who say they get news from e-mail or social media sites updates, according to a report published by CNN. The survey suggests that Facebook and Twitter make news a more participatory experience than before as people share news articles and comment on other people's posts. According to CNN, in 2010 75% of people got their news forwarded through e-mail or social media posts, whereas 37% of people shared a news item via Facebook or Twitter.\n\nIn the United States, 81% of people say they look online for news of the weather, first and foremost. National news at 73%, 52% for sports news, and 41% for entertainment or celebrity news. Based on this study, done for the Pew Center, two-thirds of the sample's online news users were younger than 50, and 30% were younger than 30. The survey involved tracking daily the habits of 2,259 adults 18 or older. Thirty-three percent of young adults get news from social networks. Thirty-four percent watched TV news and 13% read print or digital content. Nineteen percent of Americans got news from Facebook, Google+, or LinkedIn. Thirty-six percent of those who get news from social network got it yesterday from survey. More than 36% of Twitter users use accounts to follow news organizations or journalists. Nineteen percent of users say they got information from news organizations of journalists. TV remains most popular source of news, but audience is aging (only 34% of young people).\n\nOf those younger than 25, 29% said they got no news yesterday either digitally or traditional news platforms. Only 5% under 30 said they follow news about political figures and events in DC. Only 14% of respondents could answer all four questions about which party controls the House, current unemployment rate, what nation Angela Merkel leads, and which presidential candidate favors taxing higher-income Americans. Facebook and Twitter now pathways to news, but are not replacements for traditional ones. Seventy percent get social media news from friends and family on Facebook.\n\nSocial media fosters communication. An Internet research company, Pew Research Center, claims that \"more than half of internet users (52%) use two or more of the social media sites measured (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest) to communicate with their family or friends\". For children, using social media sites can help promote creativity, interaction, and learning. It can also help them with homework and class work. Moreover, social media enable them to stay connected with their peers, and help them to interact with each other. Some can get involved with developing fundraising campaigns and political events. However, it can impact social skills due to the absence of face-to-face contact. Social media can affect mental health of teens. Teens who use Facebook frequently and especially who are susceptible may become more narcissistic, antisocial, and aggressive. Teens become strongly influenced by advertising, and it influences buying habits. Since the creation of Facebook in 2004, it has become a distraction and a way to waste time for many users. A head teacher in the United Kingdom commented in 2015 that social media caused more stress to teenage children than examinations, with constant interaction and monitoring by peers ending the past practice where what pupils did in the evening or at weekends was separate from the arguments and peer pressure at school.\n\nIn a 2014 study, high school students ages 18 and younger were examined in an effort to find their preference for receiving news. Based on interviews with 61 teenagers, conducted from December 2007 to February 2011, most of the teen participants reported reading print newspapers only \"sometimes,\" with fewer than 10% reading them daily. The teenagers instead reported learning about current events from social media sites such as Facebook, MySpace, YouTube, and blogs. Another study showed that social media users read a set of news that is different from what newspaper editors feature in the print press. Using nanotechnology as an example, a study was conducted that studied tweets from Twitter and found that some 41% of the discourse about nanotechnology focused on its negative impacts, suggesting that a portion of the public may be concerned with how various forms of nanotechnology are used in the future. Although optimistic-sounding and neutral-sounding tweets were equally likely to express certainty or uncertainty, the pessimistic tweets were nearly twice as likely to appear certain of an outcome than uncertain. These results imply the possibility of a preconceived negative perception of many news articles associated with nanotechnology. Alternatively, these results could also imply that posts of a more pessimistic nature that are also written with an air of certainty are more likely to be shared or otherwise permeate groups on Twitter. Similar biases need to be considered when the utility of new media is addressed, as the potential for human opinion to over-emphasize any particular news story is greater despite the general improvement in addressed potential uncertainty and bias in news articles than in traditional media.\n\nOn October 2, 2013, the most common hashtag throughout the United States was \"#governmentshutdown\", as well as ones focusing on political parties, Obama, and healthcare. Most news sources have Twitter, and Facebook, pages, like CNN and the New York Times, providing links to their online articles, getting an increased readership. Additionally, several college news organizations and administrators have Twitter pages as a way to share news and connect to students. According to \"Reuters Institute Digital News Report 2013\", in the US, among those who use social media to find news, 47% of these people are under 45 years old, and 23% are above 45 years old. However social media as a main news gateway does not follow the same pattern across countries. For example, in this report, in Brazil, 60% of the respondents said social media was one of the five most important ways to find news online, 45% in Spain, 17% in the UK, 38% in Italy, 14% in France, 22% in Denmark, 30% in the U.S., and 12% in Japan. Moreover, there are differences among countries about commenting on news in social networks, 38% of the respondents in Brazil said they commented on news in social network in a week. These percentages are 21% in the U.S. and 10% in the UK. The authors argued that differences among countries may be due to culture difference rather than different levels of access to technical tools.\n\nRainie and Wellman have argued that media making now has become a participation work, which changes communication systems. The center of power is shifted from only the media (as the gatekeeper) to the peripheral area, which may include government, organizations, and out to the edge, the individual. These changes in communication systems raise empirical questions about trust to media effect. Prior empirical studies have shown that trust in information sources plays a major role in people's decision making. People's attitudes more easily change when they hear messages from trustworthy sources. In the Reuters report, 27% of respondents agree that they worry about the accuracy of a story on a blog. However, 40% of them believe the stories on blogs are more balanced than traditional papers because they are provided with a range of opinions. Recent research has shown that in the new social media communication environment, the civil or uncivil nature of comments will bias people's information processing even if the message is from a trustworthy source, which bring the practical and ethical question about the responsibility of communicator in the social media environment.\n"}
{"id": "54977354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54977354", "title": "Telugu Samskruthika Niketanam", "text": "Telugu Samskruthika Niketanam\n\nTelugu Saamskruthika Niketanam is all so called as World Telugu Museum is located in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh,India. it was established in the year of 2015 by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.\n\nThe main objective of this museum is to elaborate Telugu history and culture from Satavahana dynasty to till now.the Telugu museum is showing 42 episodes of Telugu culture, arts,folk arts, great poets,language, literature and history of great personalities in Telugu society.\n\n"}
{"id": "16940362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16940362", "title": "The Creative Writer", "text": "The Creative Writer\n\nThe Creative Writer is a book series published by J. D. Vine Publications. The books are anthologies of winning stories and poems from competitions J. D. Vine Publications runs. Every book has a featured author and featured poet. The first volume, \"The Creative Writer: A Lucky Man and Shatter with other stories and poems\", was released in 2007. Its featured author is Lynda Myles and its featured poet is Elli Westmoreland. The second volume, \"The Creative Writer: Quaquay's Birthday & Uncharted Life with other stories and poems\", was released in 2008. Its featured author is animatqua and its featured poet is Sally O'Quinn. The series is edited by Jared D. Vineyard.\n"}
{"id": "27176690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27176690", "title": "Time Team (pilot)", "text": "Time Team (pilot)\n\nThe pilot episode of the British programme \"Time Team\" has never been aired. It was produced in 1992, and copies of the pilot have since been lost. Only one clip of the pilot is known to exist.\n\nEpisode # refer to the number in air date order which includes the specials episode which broadcast in between regular episodes\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1905435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1905435", "title": "Ut pictura poesis", "text": "Ut pictura poesis\n\nUt pictura poesis is a Latin phrase literally meaning \"as is painting so is poetry\". The statement (often repeated) occurs most famously in Horace's \"Ars Poetica\", near the end, immediately after another famous quotation, \"bonus dormitat Homerus\", or \"even Homer nods\" (an indication that even the most skilled poet can compose inferior verse):\n\nHorace meant that poetry (in its widest sense, \"imaginative texts\") merited the same careful interpretation that was, in Horace's day, reserved for painting.\n\nSome centuries before Simonides of Keos( c. 556 – 468 BC) had stated, \"Poema pictura loquens, pictura poema silens,\" which translates into, \"Poetry is a speaking picture, painting a silent poetry.\" Yet, as this phrase has traversed history, it has ignited academic arguments over whether or not it is true. Plato, through his own thought process on credible knowledge, found painting and writing to be unreliable sources of understanding so disregarded the whole concept entirely. The lack of credibility rested on his opinion that both forms of art gave a false simulation of reality. Moving on from Plato's time to the Renaissance, the argument sprung up of which form was superior. It was decided, at this time, painting took precedence because sight was higher ranking to people than hearing was.\n\nLessing opens his \"Laocoön: An Essay on the Limits of Painting and Poetry\" (1766) by observing that \"the first who compared painting with poetry [Simonides of Ceos] was a man of fine feeling,\" though, Lessing makes it clear, not a critic or philosopher. Lessing argues that painting is a synchronic, visual phenomenon, one of space that is immediately in its entirety understood and appreciated, while poetry (again, in its widest sense) is a diachronic art of the ear, one that depends on time to unfold itself for the reader's appreciation. He recommends that poetry and painting should not be confused, and that they are best practiced and appreciated \"as two equitable and friendly neighbors.\"\n\nW. J. T. Mitchell trenchantly observed that \"We tend to think that to compare poetry with painting is to make a metaphor, while to differentiate poetry from painting is to state a literal truth.\"\n\n18th-century British poet Alexander Pope was partial to \"ut pictura poesis.\" He considered both painting and poetry to be equals, and \"it can easily be seen that he held that there was a close relationship between the art of poetry and the art of painting, especially perhaps since such a relationship combined the two arts of which he was a practitioner.\" There is note of Pope finding himself \"in a larger context of a continuous line of poetic pictorialism.\" \"Ut pictura poesis\" surfaces in regards to Pope's \"Rape of the Lock\" through his in-depth descriptions of the characters and plot. Rebecca Ferguson, in her essay \"'Quick as her Eyes, and as unfix'd as those': objectification and seeing in Pope's \"Rape of the Lock\", draws attention to these details, specifically with Belinda’s character. Ferguson explains an aspect of how Pope was painting a character and a plot: \"Pope's construction of Belinda seems to render her just such a 'frontier' between a constructive and a destructive chaos, between qualities which are 'neither inside nor outside', neither invested in her 'essential' self nor in her body,\" and\n\nThe belle is identified in many ways with the display of vessels and treasures around her, both as a consumer and as a figure who takes on some of the properties of those riches, yet her attractions are in the end not so much displayed as set in motion; she 'rises in her charms', 'awakens' and 'calls forth' her wonders and graces, culminating in the dispersal of both her body and her allure in the reader's eye. (Ferguson)\n\nThere is an emphasis on the reader's eye and the imagery that contributed to audience members being able to so vividly 'watch' the plot of this poem unfold.\n\n"}
{"id": "32693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32693", "title": "Vowel", "text": "Vowel\n\nA vowel is one of the two principal classes of speech sound, the other being a consonant. Vowels vary in quality, in loudness and also in quantity (length). They are usually voiced, and are closely involved in prosodic variation such as tone, intonation and stress. Vowel sounds are produced with an open vocal tract. \nThe word \"vowel\" comes from the Latin word \"vocalis\", meaning \"vocal\" (i.e. relating to the voice). In English, the word \"vowel\" is commonly used to refer both to vowel sounds and to the written symbols that represent them.\n\nThere are two complementary definitions of vowel, one phonetic and the other phonological.\n\nThe phonetic definition of \"vowel\" (i.e. a sound produced with no constriction in the vocal tract) does not always match the phonological definition (i.e. a sound that forms the peak of a syllable). The approximants and illustrate this: both are without much of a constriction in the vocal tract (so phonetically they seem to be vowel-like), but they occur at the onset of syllables (e.g. in \"yet\" and \"wet\") which suggests that phonologically they are consonants. A similar debate arises over whether a word like \"bird\" in a rhotic dialect has an r-colored vowel or a syllabic consonant . The American linguist Kenneth Pike (1943) suggested the terms \"vocoid\" for a phonetic vowel and \"vowel\" for a phonological vowel, so using this terminology, and are classified as vocoids but not vowels. However, Maddieson and Emmory (1985) demonstrated from a range of languages that semivowels are produced with a narrower constriction of the vocal tract than vowels, and so may be considered consonants on that basis. Nonetheless, the phonetic and phonemic definitions would still conflict for the syllabic /l/ in \"table\", or the syllabic nasals in \"button\" and \"rhythm\".\n\nThe traditional view of vowel production, reflected for example in the terminology and presentation of the International Phonetic Alphabet, is one of articulatory features that determine a vowel's \"quality\" as distinguishing it from other vowels. Daniel Jones developed the cardinal vowel system to describe vowels in terms of the features of tongue \"height\" (vertical dimension), tongue \"backness\" (horizontal dimension) and \"roundedness\" (lip articulation). These three parameters are indicated in the schematic quadrilateral IPA vowel diagram on the right. There are additional features of vowel quality, such as the velum position (nasality), type of vocal fold vibration (phonation), and tongue root position.\n\nThis conception of vowel articulation has been known to be inaccurate since 1928. Peter Ladefoged has said that \"early phoneticians... thought they were describing the highest point of the tongue, but they were not. They were actually describing formant frequencies.\" (See below.) The IPA \"Handbook\" concedes that \"the vowel quadrilateral must be regarded as an abstraction and not a direct mapping of tongue position.\"\n\nNonetheless, the concept that vowel qualities are determined primarily by tongue position and lip rounding continues to be used in pedagogy, as it provides an intuitive explanation of how vowels are distinguished.\n\nVowel height is named for the vertical position of the tongue relative to either the roof of the mouth or the aperture of the jaw. However, it actually refers to the first formant (lowest resonance of the voice), abbreviated F1, which is associated with the height of the tongue. In close vowels, also known as high vowels, such as and , the first formant is consistent with the tongue being positioned close to the palate, high in the mouth, whereas in open vowels, also known as low vowels, such as , F1 is consistent with the jaw being open and the tongue being positioned low in the mouth. Height is defined by the inverse of the F1 value: The higher the frequency of the first formant, the lower (more open) the vowel.\n\nThe International Phonetic Alphabet defines seven degrees of vowel height, but no language is known to distinguish all of them without distinguishing another attribute:\n\n\nThe letters are typically used for either close-mid or true-mid vowels. However, if more precision is required, true-mid vowels may be written with a lowering diacritic . The Kensiu language, spoken in Malaysia and Thailand, is highly unusual in that it contrasts true-mid with close-mid and open-mid vowels, without any difference in other parameters like backness or roundness.\n\nAlthough English contrasts six heights in its vowels, they are interdependent with differences in backness, and many are parts of diphthongs. It appears that some varieties of German have five vowel heights that contrast independently of length or other parameters. The Bavarian dialect of Amstetten has thirteen long vowels, which are reported to distinguish five heights (close, close-mid, mid, open-mid and open) each among the front unrounded, front rounded, and back rounded vowels as well as an open central vowel, for a total of five vowel heights: . Otherwise, no language is known to contrast more than four degrees of vowel height.\n\nThe parameter of vowel height appears to be the primary cross-linguistic feature of vowels in that all spoken languages that have been researched till now use height as a contrastive feature. No other parameter, even backness or rounding (see below), is used in all languages. Some languages have vertical vowel systems in which at least at a phonemic level, only height is used to distinguish vowels.\n\nVowel backness is named for the position of the tongue during the articulation of a vowel relative to the back of the mouth. As with vowel height, however, it is \"defined\" by a formant of the voice, in this case the second, F2, not by the position of the tongue. In front vowels, such as , the frequency of F2 is relatively high, which generally corresponds to a position of the tongue forward in the mouth, whereas in back vowels, such as , F2 is low, consistent with the tongue being positioned towards the back of the mouth.\n\nThe International Phonetic Alphabet defines five degrees of vowel backness:\n\nTo them may be added front-central and back-central, corresponding to the vertical lines separating central from front and back vowel spaces in several IPA diagrams. However, \"front-central\" and \"back-central\" may also be used as terms synonymous with \"near-front\" and \"near-back\". No language is known to contrast more than three degrees of backness nor there is a language that contrasts front with near-front vowels nor back with near-back ones.\n\nAlthough some English dialects have vowels at five degrees of backness, there is no known language that distinguishes five degrees of backness without additional differences in height or rounding.\n\nThe conception of the tongue moving in two directions, high–low and front–back, is not supported by articulatory evidence and does not clarify how articulation affects vowel quality. Vowels may instead be characterized by the three directions of movement of the tongue from its neutral position: front, raised, and retracted. Front vowels ( and, to a lesser extent , etc.), can be secondarily qualified as close or open, as in the traditional conception, but rather than there being a unitary category of back vowels, the regrouping posits raised vowels, where the body of the tongue approaches the velum (], etc.), and retracted vowels, where the root of the tongue approaches the pharynx (, etc.):\n\nMembership in these categories is scalar, with the mid-central vowels being marginal to any category.\n\nRoundedness is named after the rounding of the lips in some vowels. Because lip rounding is easily visible, vowels may be commonly identified as rounded based on the articulation of the lips. Acoustically, rounded vowels are identified chiefly by a decrease in F2, although F1 is also slightly decreased.\n\nIn most languages, roundedness is a reinforcing feature of mid to high back vowels rather than a distinctive feature. Usually, the higher a back vowel, the more intense is the rounding. However, in some languages, roundedness is independent from backness, such as French and German (with front rounded vowels), most Uralic languages (Estonian has a rounding contrast for and front vowels), Turkic languages (with a rounding distinction for front vowels and ), and Vietnamese with back unrounded vowels.\n\nNonetheless, even in those languages there is usually some phonetic correlation between rounding and backness: front rounded vowels tend to be more front-central than front, and back unrounded vowels tend to be more back-central than back. Thus, the placement of unrounded vowels to the left of rounded vowels on the IPA vowel chart is reflective of their position in formant space.\n\nDifferent kinds of labialization are possible. In mid to high rounded back vowels the lips are generally protruded (\"pursed\") outward, a phenomenon known as \"exolabial rounding\" because the insides of the lips are visible, whereas in mid to high rounded front vowels the lips are generally \"compressed\" with the margins of the lips pulled in and drawn towards each other, a phenomenon known as \"endolabial rounding.\" However, not all languages follow that pattern. Japanese , for example, is an endolabial (compressed) back vowel, and sounds quite different from an English exolabial . Swedish and Norwegian are the only two known languages in which the feature is contrastive; they have both endo- and exo-labial close front vowels and close central vowels, respectively. In many phonetic treatments, both are considered types of rounding, but some phoneticians do not believe that these are subsets of a single phenomenon and posit instead three independent features of \"rounded\" (exolabial) and \"compressed\" (endolabial) and unrounded. The lip position of unrounded vowels may also be classified separately as \"spread\" and \"neutral\" (neither rounded nor spread). Others distinguish compressed rounded vowels, in which the corners of the mouth are drawn together, from compressed unrounded vowels, in which the lips are compressed but the corners remain apart as in spread vowels.\n\nNasalization refers to whether some of the air escapes through the nose. In nasal vowels, the velum is lowered, and some air travels through the nasal cavity as well as the mouth. An oral vowel is a vowel in which all air escapes through the mouth. French, Polish and Portuguese contrast nasal and oral vowels.\n\nVoicing describes whether the vocal cords are vibrating during the articulation of a vowel. Most languages have only voiced vowels, but several Native American languages, such as Cheyenne and Totonac, contrast voiced and devoiced vowels. Vowels are devoiced in whispered speech. In Japanese and in Quebec French, vowels that are between voiceless consonants are often devoiced.\n\nModal voice, creaky voice, and breathy voice (murmured vowels) are phonation types that are used contrastively in some languages. Often, they co-occur with tone or stress distinctions; in the Mon language, vowels pronounced in the high tone are also produced with creaky voice. In such cases, it can be unclear whether it is the tone, the voicing type, or the pairing of the two that is being used for phonemic contrast. The combination of phonetic cues (phonation, tone, stress) is known as \"register\" or \"register complex\".\n\nAdvanced tongue root (ATR) is a feature common across much of Africa, the Pacific Northwest, and scattered other languages such as Modern Mongolian. The contrast between advanced and retracted tongue root resembles the tense/lax contrast acoustically, but they are articulated differently. Those vowels involve noticeable tension in the vocal tract.\n\nPharyngealized vowels occur in some languages like Sedang and the Tungusic languages. Pharyngealisation is similar in articulation to retracted tongue root but is acoustically distinct.\n\nA stronger degree of pharyngealisation occurs in the Northeast Caucasian languages and the Khoisan languages. They might be called epiglottalized since the primary constriction is at the tip of the epiglottis.\n\nThe greatest degree of pharyngealisation is found in the strident vowels of the Khoisan languages, where the larynx is raised, and the pharynx constricted, so that either the epiglottis or the arytenoid cartilages vibrate instead of the vocal cords.\n\nNote that the terms \"pharyngealized\", \"epiglottalized\", \"strident\", and \"sphincteric\" are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nRhotic vowels are the \"R-colored vowels\" of American English and a few other languages.\n\nTenseness is used to describe the opposition of \"tense vowels\" as in \"leap\", \"suit\" vs. \"lax vowels\" as in \"lip\", \"soot\". This opposition has traditionally been thought to be a result of greater muscular tension, though phonetic experiments have repeatedly failed to show this.\n\nUnlike the other features of vowel quality, tenseness is only applicable to the few languages that have this opposition (mainly Germanic languages, e.g. English), whereas the vowels of the other languages (e.g. Spanish) cannot be described with respect to tenseness in any meaningful way. In discourse about the English language, \"tense and lax\" are often used interchangeably with \"long and short\", respectively, because the features are concomitant in the common varieties of English. This cannot be applied to all English dialects or other languages.\n\nIn most Germanic languages, lax vowels can only occur in closed syllables. Therefore, they are also known as checked vowels, whereas the tense vowels are called free vowels since they can occur in any kind of syllable.\n\nThe acoustics of vowels are fairly well understood. The different vowel qualities are realized in acoustic analyses of vowels by the relative values of the formants, acoustic resonances of the vocal tract which show up as dark bands on a spectrogram. The vocal tract acts as a resonant cavity, and the position of the jaw, lips, and tongue affect the parameters of the resonant cavity, resulting in different formant values. The acoustics of vowels can be visualized using spectrograms, which display the acoustic energy at each frequency, and how this changes with time.\n\nThe first formant, abbreviated \"F1\", corresponds to vowel openness (vowel height). Open vowels have high F1 frequencies, while close vowels have low F1 frequencies, as can be seen in the accompanying spectrogram: The and have similar low first formants, whereas has a higher formant.\n\nThe second formant, F2, corresponds to vowel frontness. Back vowels have low F2 frequencies, while front vowels have high F2 frequencies. This is very clear in the spectrogram, where the front vowel has a much higher F2 frequency than the other two vowels. However, in open vowels, the high F1 frequency forces a rise in the F2 frequency as well, so an alternative measure of frontness is the \"difference\" between the first and second formants. For this reason, some people prefer to plot as F1 vs. F2 – F1. (This dimension is usually called 'backness' rather than 'frontness', but the term 'backness' can be counterintuitive when discussing formants.)\n\nIn the third edition of his textbook, Peter Ladefoged recommended using plots of F1 against F2 – F1 to represent vowel quality. However, in the fourth edition, he changed to adopt a simple plot of F1 against F2, and this simple plot of F1 against F2 was maintained for the fifth (and final) edition of the book. Katrina Hayward compares the two types of plots and concludes that plotting of F1 against F2 – F1 \"is not very satisfactory because of its effect on the placing of the central vowels\", so she also recommends use of a simple plot of F1 against F2. In fact, this kind of plot of F1 against F2 has been used by analysts to show the quality of the vowels in a wide range of languages, including RP, the Queen's English, American English, Singapore English, Brunei English, North Frisian, Turkish Kabardian, and various indigenous Australian languages.\n\nR-colored vowels are characterized by lowered F3 values.\n\nRounding is generally realized by a decrease of F2 that tends to reinforce vowel backness. One effect of this is that back vowels are most commonly rounded while front vowels are most commonly unrounded; another is that rounded vowels tend to plot to the right of unrounded vowels in vowel charts. That is, there is a reason for plotting vowel pairs the way they are.\n\nIn addition to variation in vowel quality as described above, vowels vary as a result of differences in prosody. The most important prosodic variables are pitch (fundamental frequency), loudness (intensity) and length (duration) However, the features of prosody are usually considered to apply not to the vowel itself, but to the syllable in which the vowel occurs. In other words, the \"domain\" of prosody is the syllable, not the segment (vowel or consonant). We can list briefly the effect of prosody on the vowel component of a syllable. \n\n\n\n\nA vowel sound whose quality does not change over the duration of the vowel is called a monophthong. Monophthongs are sometimes called \"pure\" or \"stable\" vowels. A vowel sound that glides from one quality to another is called a diphthong, and a vowel sound that glides successively through three qualities is a triphthong.\n\nAll languages have monophthongs and many languages have diphthongs, but triphthongs or vowel sounds with even more target qualities are relatively rare cross-linguistically. English has all three types: the vowel sound in \"hit\" is a monophthong , the vowel sound in \"boy\" is in most dialects a diphthong , and the vowel sounds of \"flower\", , form a triphthong or disyllable, depending on dialect.\n\nIn phonology, diphthongs and triphthongs are distinguished from sequences of monophthongs by whether the vowel sound may be analyzed into different phonemes or not. For example, the vowel sounds in a two-syllable pronunciation of the word \"flower\" () phonetically form a disyllabic triphthong, but are phonologically a sequence of a diphthong (represented by the letters ) and a monophthong (represented by the letters ). Some linguists use the terms \"diphthong\" and \"triphthong\" only in this phonemic sense.\n\nThe name \"vowel\" is often used for the symbols that represent vowel sounds in a language's writing system, particularly if the language uses an alphabet. In writing systems based on the Latin alphabet, the letters \"A\", \"E\", \"I\", \"O\", \"U\", \"Y\", \"W\" and sometimes others can all be used to represent vowels. However, not all of these letters represent vowels in all languages, or even consistently within one language (some of them, especially \"W\" and \"Y\", are also used to represent approximants). Moreover, a vowel might be represented by a letter usually reserved for consonants, or a combination of letters, particularly where one letter represents several sounds at once, or vice versa; examples from English include \"igh\" in \"thigh\" and \"x\" in \"x-ray\". In addition, extensions of the Latin alphabet have such independent vowel letters as \"Ä\", \"Ö\", \"Ü\", \"Å\", \"Æ\", and \"Ø\".\n\nThe phonetic values vary considerably by language, and some languages use \"I\" and \"Y\" for the consonant , e.g., initial \"I\" in Italian or Romanian and initial \"Y\" in English. In the original Latin alphabet, there was no written distinction between \"V\" and \"U\", and the letter represented the approximant and the vowels and . In Modern Welsh, the letter a\"W\" represents these same sounds. Similarly, in Creek, the letter \"V\" stands for . There is not necessarily a direct one-to-one correspondence between the vowel sounds of a language and the vowel letters. Many languages that use a form of the Latin alphabet have more vowel sounds than can be represented by the standard set of five vowel letters. In English spelling, the five letters \"A\" \"E\" \"I\" \"O\" and \"U\" can represent a variety of vowel sounds, while the letter \"Y\" frequently represents vowels (as in e.g., \"gym\", \"happy\", or the diphthongs in \"cry\", \"thyme\"); \"W\" is used in representing some diphthongs (as in \"cow\") and to represent a monophthong in the borrowed words \" and \" (sometimes \"cruth\").\n\nOther languages cope with the limitation in the number of Latin vowel letters in similar ways. Many languages make extensive use of combinations of letters to represent various sounds. Other languages use vowel letters with modifications, such as \"ä\" in Swedish, or add diacritical marks, like umlauts, to vowels to represent the variety of possible vowel sounds. Some languages have also constructed additional vowel letters by modifying the standard Latin vowels in other ways, such as \"æ\" or \"ø\" that are found in some of the Scandinavian languages. The International Phonetic Alphabet has a set of 28 symbols to represent the range of basic vowel qualities, and a further set of diacritics to denote variations from the basic vowel.\n\nThe writing systems used for some languages, such as the Hebrew alphabet and the Arabic alphabet, do not ordinarily mark all the vowels, since they are frequently unnecessary in identifying a word. Technically, these are called abjads rather than alphabets. Although it is possible to construct simple English sentences that can be understood without written vowels (\"cn y rd ths?\"), extended passages of English lacking written vowels can be difficult to understand; consider \"dd\", which could be any of \"dad, dada, dado, dead, deed, did, died, diode, dodo, dud, dude, odd, add\", or \"aided\". (But note that abjads generally express some word-internal vowels and all word-initial and word-final vowels, whereby the ambiguity will be much reduced.) The Masoretes devised a vowel notation system for Hebrew Jewish scripture that is still widely used, as well as the trope symbols used for its cantillation; both are part of oral tradition and still the basis for many bible translations—Jewish and Christian.\n\nThe differences in pronunciation of vowel letters between English and its related languages can be accounted for by the Great Vowel Shift. After printing was introduced to England, and therefore after spelling was more or less standardized, a series of dramatic changes in the pronunciation of the vowel phonemes did occur, and continued into recent centuries, but were not reflected in the spelling system. This has led to numerous inconsistencies in the spelling of English vowel sounds and the pronunciation of English vowel letters (and to the mispronunciation of foreign words and names by speakers of English).\n\nThe existence of vowel shifts should serve as a caution flag to anyone who is trying to pronounce an ancient language or, indeed, any poetry (in any language) from two centuries ago or earlier.\n\nThe importance of vowels in distinguishing one word from another varies from language to language. Nearly all languages have at least three phonemic vowels, usually as in Classical Arabic and Inuktitut, though Adyghe and many Sepik languages have a vertical vowel system of . Very few languages have fewer, though some Arrernte, Circassian, Ndu languages have been argued to have just two, and , with being epenthetic.\n\nIt is not straightforward to say which language has the most vowels, since that depends on how they are counted. For example, long vowels, nasal vowels, and various phonations may or may not be counted separately; indeed, it may sometimes be unclear if phonation belongs to the vowels or the consonants of a language. If such things are ignored and only vowels with dedicated IPA letters ('vowel qualities') are considered, then very few languages have more than ten. The Germanic languages have some of the largest inventories: Standard Danish has 11 to 13 short vowels (), while the Amstetten dialect of Bavarian has been reported to have thirteen long vowels: . The situation can be quite disparate within a same family language: Spanish and French are two closely related Romance languages but Spanish has only five vowel qualities, , while classical French has eleven: . The Mon–Khmer languages of Southeast Asia also have some large inventories, such as the eleven vowels of Vietnamese: . Wu dialects have the largest inventories of Chinese; the Jinhui dialect of Wu has also been reported to have eleven vowels: ten basic vowels, , plus restricted ; this does not count the seven nasal vowels.\n\nOne of the most common vowels is ; it is nearly universal for a language to have at least one open vowel, though most dialects of English have an and a —and often an , all open vowels—but no central . Some Tagalog and Cebuano speakers have rather than , and Dhangu Yolngu is described as having , without any peripheral vowels. is also extremely common, though Tehuelche has just the vowels with no close vowels. The third vowel of Arabic-type three-vowel system, , is considerably less common. A large fraction of the languages of North America happen to have a four-vowel system without : ; Nahuatl is an example.\n\nIn most languages, vowels serve mainly to distinguish separate lexemes, rather than different inflectional forms of the same lexeme as they commonly do in the Semitic languages. For example, while English \"man\" becomes \"men\" in the plural, \"moon\" is not a different form of the same word.\n\nIn rhotic dialects of English, as in Canada and the United States, there are many words such as \"bird, learn, girl, church, worst, wyrm, myrrh\" that some phoneticians analyze as having no vowels, only a syllabic consonant . However, others analyze these words instead as having a rhotic vowel, . The difference may be partially one of dialect.\n\nThere are a few such words that are disyllabic, like \", curtain,\" and \"turtle:\" , and (or , , and ), and even a few that are trisyllabic, at least in some accents, such as \"purpler\" , \"hurdler\" , \"gurgler\" , and \"certainer\" .\n\nThe word \"and\" frequently contracts to a simple nasal \"’n,\" as in \"lock 'n key\" . Words such as \"will, have,\" and \"is\" regularly contract to \"’ll\" , \"’ve\" , and \"'s\" . However, none of them are pronounced alone without vowels, so they are not phonological words. Onomatopoeic words that can be pronounced alone, and that have no vowels or ars, include \"hmm, pst!, shh!, tsk!,\" and \"zzz\". As in other languages, onomatopoeiae stand outside the normal phonotactics of English.\n\nThere are other languages that form lexical words without vowel sounds. In Serbo-Croatian, for example, the consonants and (the difference is not written) can act as a syllable nucleus and carry rising or falling tone; examples include the tongue-twister \"na vrh brda vrba mrda\" and geographic names such as \"Krk\". In Czech and Slovak, either or can stand in for vowels: \"vlk\" \"wolf\", \"krk\" \"neck\". A particularly long word without vowels is \"čtvrthrst,\" meaning \"quarter-handful\", with two syllables (one for each R). Whole sentences can be made from such words, such as \"Strč prst skrz krk,\" meaning \"stick a finger through your neck\" (follow the link for a sound file), and \"Smrž pln skvrn zvlhl z mlh\" \"A morel full of spots wetted from fogs\". (Here \"zvlhl\" has two syllables based on L; note that the preposition \"z\" consists of a single consonant. Only prepositions do this in Czech, and they normally link phonetically to the following noun, so do not really behave as vowelless words.) In Russian, there are also prepositions that consist of a single consonant letter, like \"k\" \"to\", \"v\" \"in\", and \"s\" \"with\". However, these forms are actually contractions of \"ko\", \"vo\", and \"so\" respectively, and these forms are still used in modern Russian before words with certain consonant clusters for ease of pronunciation.\n\nIn Kazakh and certain other Turkic languages, words without vowel sounds may occur due to reduction of weak vowels. A common example is the Kazakh word for one: \"bir\", pronounced . Among careful speakers, however, the original vowel may be preserved, and the vowels are always preserved in the orthography.\n\nIn Southern varieties of Chinese, such as Cantonese and Minnan, some monosyllabic words are made of exclusively nasals, such as \"no\" and \"five\".\n\nSo far, all of these syllabic consonants, at least in the lexical words, have been sonorants, such as , , , and , which have a voiced quality similar to vowels. (They can carry tone, for example.) However, there are languages with lexical words that not only contain no vowels, but contain no sonorants at all, like (non-lexical) \"shh!\" in English. These include some Berber languages and some languages of the American Pacific Northwest, such as Nuxalk. An example from the latter is \"scs\" \"seal fat\" (pronounced , as spelled), and a longer one is \"clhp'xwlhtlhplhhskwts\"' (pronounced ) \"he had had in his possession a bunchberry plant\". (Follow the Nuxalk link for other examples.) Berber examples include \"you took it off\" and \"you gave it\". Some words may contain one or two consonants only: \"be\", \"feed on\". (In Mandarin Chinese, words and syllables such as \"sī\" and \"zhī\" are sometimes described as being syllabic fricatives and affricates phonemically, and , but these do have a voiced segment that carries the tone.) In the Japonic language Miyako, there are words with no voiced sounds, such as \"ss\" 'dust', \"kss\" 'breast/milk', \"pss\" 'day', \"ff\" 'a comb', \"kff\" 'to make', \"fks\" 'to build', \"ksks\" 'month', \"sks\" 'to cut', \"psks\" 'to pull'.\n\nIt is not uncommon for short grammatical words to consist of only vowels, such as \"a\" and \"I\" in English. Lexical words are somewhat rarer in English and are generally restricted to a single syllable: \"eye, awe, owe\", and in non-rhotic accents \"air, ore, err\". Vowel-only words of more than one syllable are generally foreign loans, such as \"ai\" (two syllables: ) for the maned sloth, or proper names, such as \"Iowa\" (in some accents: ).\n\nHowever, vowel sequences in hiatus are more freely allowed in some other languages, most famously perhaps in Bantu and Polynesian languages, but also in Japanese and Finnic languages. In such languages there tends to be a larger variety of vowel-only words. In Swahili (Bantu), for example, there is \"aua\" 'to survey' and \"eua\" 'to purify' (both three syllables); in Japanese, \"aoi\" 青い 'blue/green' and \"oioi\" 追々 'gradually' (three and four syllables); and in Finnish, \"aie\" 'intention' and \"auo\" 'open!' (both two syllables), although some dialects pronounce them as \"aije\" and \"auvo\". Hawaiian, and the Polynesian languages generally, have unusually large numbers of such words, such as \"aeāea\" (a small green fish), which is three syllables: \"ae.āe.a\". Most long words involve reduplication, which is quite productive in Polynesian: \"ioio\" 'grooves', \"eaea\" 'breath', \"uaua\" 'tough' (all four syllables), \"auēuē\" 'crying' (five syllables, from \"uē (uwē)\" 'to weep'), \"uoa\" or \"uouoa\" 'false mullet' (sp. fish, three or five syllables). The longest continuous vowel sequence is in Finnish word \"hääyöaie\" (\"wedding night intention\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453968", "title": "Wearable art", "text": "Wearable art\n\nWearable art, also known as \"Artwear\" or \"art to wear\", refers to individually designed pieces of (usually) handmade clothing or jewellery created as fine or expressive art. While the making of any article of clothing or other wearable object typically involves aesthetic considerations, the term \"wearable art\" implies that the work is intended to be accepted as a serious and unique artistic creation or statement. Pieces may be sold and/or exhibited. The modern idea of wearable art seems to have surfaced more than once in various forms. Marbeth Schon's book on modernist jewellery (see the section on jewellery below) refers to a \"wearable art movement\" spanning roughly the years 1930 to 1960. A 2003 \"The New York Times\" review of a book on knitting refers to \"the 60s Art to Wear movement\".\nMost wearable art is made of fibrous materials and constitutes therefore a branch of the wider field of fiber art, which includes both wearable and non-wearable forms of art using fabric and other fiber products. Wearable art as an artistic domain can also include jewelry, or clothing made from non-fiber materials such as leather, plastic sheeting, metals, etc.\n\nArtists creating wearable fiber art may use purchased finished fabrics or other materials, making them into unique garments, or may dye and paint virgin fabric. Countering the belief that art is something expensive, some clothing artists have started local companies to produce quality art work and clothing for a modest price. Wearable art is not restricted to jewellery but is also seen in graphic T-shirts and even pants.\n\nAs with any other art form, the talent and skills of artists in this field vary widely. Since the nature of the medium requires craft skills as well as artistic skills, an advanced artist may wish to study color theory, chemistry, sewing, clothing design, and computer software such as Photoshop and Illustrator. Classes in clothing design and marketing are offered at colleges such as the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City.\n\nThe New Zealand city of Nelson gained a reputation in the field of wearable art, with its \"World of Wearable Art Awards\", held annually since 1987 and run by Suzie Moncrieff. In 2005, the show moved to Wellington to a larger venue, although a museum of garments remains in Nelson. In Australia, the Shearwater Wearable Arts or W.A.V.E. (Wearable Arts Vision In Education) has developed from a high school initiative to become a leading wearable arts event. It is held at Shearwater, The Mullumbimby Steiner School in Mullumbimby, New South Wales.\n\nSome 20th-century modern artists and architects sought to elevate bodily ornamentation — that is, jewellery — to the level of fine art and original design, rather than mere decoration, craft production of traditional designs, or conventional settings for showing off expensive stones or precious metals. In \"Modernist Jewelry 1930-1960: The Wearable Art Movement\" (2004), author Marbeth Schon explores unique and innovative wearable art objects created by surrealists, cubists, abstract expressionists, and other modernist artists working in the middle decades of the 20th century.\n\nNot all garments created as wearable art are made from traditional fibers or fabrics, and not all such artworks are meant for ordinary, practical use. Performance and conceptual artists have sometimes produced examples which are more provocative than useful. Trashion is another branch of extraordinary wearable art, for example, work by Marina DeBris. The Portland Oregon Trashion Collective, Junk to Funk, has been using creating outrageous art garments out of trash.\n\nA well-known example is the \"Electric Dress\", a ceremonial wedding kimono-like costume consisting mostly of variously colored electrified and painted light bulbs, enmeshed in a tangle of wires, created in 1956 by the Japanese Gutai artist Atsuko Tanaka. This extreme garment was something like a stage costume. Not really wearable in an everyday, practical sense, it functioned rather as part of a daring work of performance art (though the \"performance\" element consisted merely of the artist's wearing the piece while mingling with spectators in a gallery setting).\n\nIn Nam June Paik's 1969 performance piece called \"TV Bra for Living Sculpture\", Charlotte Moorman played a cello while wearing a brassiere made of two small operating television sets.\n\nCanadian artist Andrea Vander Kooij created a group of pieces called \"Garments for Forced Intimacy\" (2006). According to an essay at Concordia University's Faculty of Fine Arts gallery website, these hand-knit articles of clothing are designed to be worn by two people simultaneously, and they, \"as the name states, compel the wearers into uncharacteristic proximity.\"\n\nAs wearable computing technology develops, increasingly miniaturized and stylized equipment is starting to blend with wearable art esthetics. Low-power mobile computing allows light-emitting and color-changing flexible materials and high-tech fabrics to be used in complex and subtle ways. Some practitioners of the Steampunk movement have produced elaborate costumes and accessories which incorporate a pseudo-Victorian style with modern technology and materials.\n\n\n"}
