{"id": "41499141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41499141", "title": "Acharya Vamana", "text": "Acharya Vamana\n\nAcharya Vamana (latter half of the 8th century - early 9th century) was an Indian Rhetorician.\n\nVamana's investigation into the nature of a Kāvya is known as theory of Riti.\n\nVamana’s Kavyalankara Sutra is considered as the first attempt at evolving a philosophy of literary aesthetics. He regarded that riti is the soul of Kavya. He presented his formulations in the form of Sutras.\n"}
{"id": "58906941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58906941", "title": "Adrian Walsh", "text": "Adrian Walsh\n\nAdrian J. Walsh (born 1963) is an Australian philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of New England (Australia).\nHe is known for his expertise on political philosophy, philosophy of economics and applied ethics.\nWalsh is an Associate Editor of the \"Journal of Applied Philosophy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41555446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41555446", "title": "Alia Al-Saji", "text": "Alia Al-Saji\n\nAlia Al-Saji is an Associate Professor of Philosophy at McGill University. Her work focuses on bringing 20th century phenomenology and French philosophy into dialogue with critical race and feminist theories. Al-Saji believes that feminist phenomenology must take an intersectional approach to its work, one that accounts for the fact that gender cannot be treated in a vacuum apart from other axes of oppression.\n\nAl-Saji received a bachelor's degree from McMaster University in 1993, a master's degree in Philosophy from KU Leuven in 1995, and a doctorate in Philosophy from Emory University in 2002. After receiving her doctorate, Al-Saji accepted a teaching position at McGill University, an institution she is still at. In her time at McGill (and previously, as a graduate student,) Al-Saji published a number of papers in peer-reviewed journals. She is also working on a manuscript, tentatively titled \"The Time of Difference: Thinking memory, perception and ethics with Bergson and Merleau-Ponty\".\n\nAl-Saji is the editor of the feminist philosophy section of the journal Philosophy Compass. She is a co-editor of the Symposia on Gender, Race and Philosophy. Al-Saji has held a number of fellowships, including one at the Institute of Advanced Study at Durham University in 2012, where she carried out research related to the theme of time, and one at The Camargo Foundation in Cassis, France.\n\nMuch of Al-Saji's work has represented an effort to forge links between 20th century phenomenology and French philosophy and critical race and feminist theories. A significant theme of her work has been the question of time. Al-Saji's research has two distinct tracks: the first looks at questions of embodiment, memory, and intersubjectivity, and the second attempts to develop a phenomenology of \"cultural racism,\" especially through feminist analysis of the depiction of Muslim women in modern western contexts. Al-Saji's work has touched upon the work of many scholars before her, including Henri Bergson, Edmund Husserl, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Jean Paul Sartre, and many others - although her work has primarily focused on Bergson and Merleau-Ponty.\n"}
{"id": "714104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714104", "title": "An Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of Scripture", "text": "An Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of Scripture\n\nAn Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of Scripture is a dissertation by the English mathematician and scholar Isaac Newton. This was sent in a letter to John Locke on 14 November 1690 and built upon the textual work of Richard Simon and his own research. The text was first published in English in 1754, 27 years after his death. The account claimed to review all the textual evidence available from ancient sources on two disputed Bible passages: and .\n\nNewton describes this letter as \"an account of what the reading has been in all ages, and what steps it has been changed, as far as I can hitherto determine by records\", and \"a criticism concerning a text of Scripture\". He blames \"the Roman church\" for many abuses in the world and accuses it of \"pious frauds\". He adds that \"the more learned and quick-sighted men, as Luther, Erasmus, Bullinger, Grotius, and some others, would not dissemble their knowledge\".\n\nIn the King James Version Bible, 1 John 5:7 reads:\n\nUsing the writings of the early Church Fathers, the Greek and Latin manuscripts and the testimony of the first versions of the Bible, Newton claims to have demonstrated that the words \"in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one\", that support the Trinity doctrine, did not appear in the original Greek Scriptures. He then attempts to demonstrate that the purportedly spurious reading crept into the Latin versions, first as a marginal note, and later into the text itself. He noted that \"the Æthiopic, Syriac, Arabic, Armenian, and Slavonic versions, still in use in the several Eastern nations, Ethiopia, Egypt, Syria, Mesopotamia, Armenia, Muscovy, and some others, are strangers to this reading\". He argued that it was first taken into a Greek text in 1515 by Cardinal Ximenes on the strength of a late Greek manuscript 'corrected' from the Latin. Finally, Newton considered the sense and context of the verse, concluding that removing the interpolation makes \"the sense plain and natural, and the argument full and strong; but if you insert the testimony of 'the Three in Heaven' you interrupt and spoil it.\" Today most versions of the Bible are from the Critical Text and omit this verse, or retain it as only a marginal reading.\n\nThe shorter portion of Newton's dissertation was concerned with 1 Timothy 3:16, which reads (in the King James Version):\n\nNewton argued that, by a small alteration in the Greek text, the word \"God\" was substituted to make the phrase read \"God was manifest in the flesh\" instead of \"which was manifested in the flesh\". He attempted to demonstrate that early Church writers in referring to the verse knew nothing of such an alteration.\n\nNewton concludes: \"If the ancient churches in debating and deciding the greatest mysteries of religion, knew nothing of these two texts, I understand not, why we should be so fond of them now the debates are over.\" With minor exceptions, it was only in the nineteenth century that Bible translations appeared changing these passages. Modern versions of the Bible from the Critical Text usually omit the addition to 1 John 5:7, but some place it in a footnote, with a comment indicating that \"it is not found in the earliest manuscripts\". Modern translations of 1 Timothy 3:16 following the Critical Text now typically replace \"God\" with \"He\" or \"He who\", while the literal Emphasized has \"who\".\nA number of papers in the years following responded to Newton, notably John Berriman in 1741, who had seen at least some of Newton's text prior to publication. Later, Frederick Nolan in 1815, Ebenezer Henderson in 1830 and John William Burgon in the Revision Revised in 1883 all contributed substantially to the verse discussion.\n\nNewton did not publish these findings during his lifetime, likely due to the political climate. Those who wrote against the doctrine of the Trinity were subject to persecution in England. The Blasphemy Act 1697 made it an offence to deny one of the persons of the Trinity to be God, punishable with loss of office and employment on the first occasion, further legal ramifications on the second occasion, and imprisonment without hope for bail on the third occasion. Newton's friend William Whiston (translator of the works of Josephus) lost his professorship at Cambridge for this reason in 1711. In 1693 a pamphlet attacking the Trinity was burned by order of the House of Lords, and the next year its printer and author were prosecuted. In 1697 Thomas Aikenhead, an eighteen-year-old student charged with denying the Trinity, was hanged at Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nThe dissertation was published in 1754.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2231495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2231495", "title": "Astral spirit", "text": "Astral spirit\n\nAn astral spirit is a term used in spiritualism and holism. Depending on the time period and culture, the term can have several meanings. During the Renaissance time period it was used in a Platonic format to designate the \"aetheric vehicle or starlike garment surrounding the soul which descended from heaven and entered the individual body\". It was thought to be one of the three parts of the human soul that contained the \"thoughts, cogitations, desires, imaginations that were impressed upon the mind at the time of death\" as well as lust and anger. The philosopher Marsilio Ficino considered it to be a link between the physical body and the incorporeal soul while others such as Jean Fernel associated it more with animal spirits. Philosopher Henry More introduced the term into the medical setting and considered the astral spirit to be a part of the body that was separate from the \"rational soul\". More's viewpoint was criticized as \"[reducing] spiritual phenomena ... to pseudo-physical explanations\".\n\nAstral spirits have also been associated with the familiar spirit and witchcraft, specifically black magic, and was considered at one point to be demonic in origin. This definition of astral spirits considered the entities to be completely separate from the concept of the astral spirit as something that was considered to be part of or attached to the human body or soul. The term was also used in relation to the concept of ghosts and vampirism, as spiritualists in the nineteenth century believed that the astral spirit would rise from the grave of the deceased in order to steal the blood and vitality of the living while the physical body would remain in the grave. This form of the astral spirit, while sometimes considered to be harmful, fell into the Platonic definition as it was considered to be a remnant of the deceased in some form. Astral spirits were also considered to be potentially capable of fathering a child, as there were some tales of astral spirits reportedly impregnating the wife of a deceased hajduk.\n"}
{"id": "13977513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13977513", "title": "Buffer strip", "text": "Buffer strip\n\nA buffer strip is an area of land maintained in permanent vegetation that helps to control air, soil, and water quality, along with other environmental problems, dealing primarily on land that is used in agriculture. Buffer strips trap sediment, and enhance filtration of nutrients and pesticides by slowing down runoff that could enter the local surface waters. The root systems of the planted vegetation in these buffers hold soil particles together which alleviate the soil of wind erosion and stabilize stream banks providing protection against substantial erosion and landslides. Farmers can also use buffer strips to square up existing crop fields to provide safety for equipment while also farming more efficiently.\n\nBuffer strips can have several different configurations of vegetation found on them varying from simply grass to combinations of grass, trees, and shrubs. Areas with diverse vegetation provide more protection from nutrient and pesticide flow and at the same time provide better biodiversity amongst plants and animals.\n\nMany country, state, and local governments provide financial incentives for conservation programs such as buffer strips because they help stabilize the environment even when the land is being used. Buffer strips not only stabilize the land but can also provide a visual demonstration that land is under stewardship.\n\nA grassed waterway reduces soil erosion and captures most nutrients and pesticides that would normally wash out of crop fields and into major waters. These waterways help to carry surface water at a non-erosive velocity to an area where it will have a stable outlet. Outlets must be adequate enough to allow water to drain without ponding or flooding the area being protected, while also preventing erosion of the water into the outlet which can be accomplished through the use of riprap. A limitation is during large runoff events, when soil is saturated, grassed waterways will have a very concentrated flow of water making them not as effective during high rainfalls. Grassed waterways require very little maintenance once they are introduced with major upkeep being mowing of the grass and reseeding. Farm machinery and cattle can cross these waterways but it may be hazardous during wet periods. One of the major disadvantages of waterways are actually getting them established. A late summer or early fall seeding when rainfall is minimal is recommended to allow the seed to have the best chance at establishing a root system.\n\nContour buffer strips are strips of perennial vegetation alternated with wider cultivated strips of cropland. This type of buffer strip is most effective when runoff water enters uniformly as sheetflow. They are very adapted to trapping pesticides and reducing rill erosion. These buffers need to be at least wide and make up for 20 to 30 percent of slope of an area. A lot of the time contour buffers can be used as a very inexpensive substitute for terraces. Most of the time a grass is selected that can be harvested during mid-summer. These buffers are not permanent and can be moved up and down hillsides from season to season in order to re-establish vegetation.\n\nVegetative barriers are narrower buffer strips of hardy, native, perennial grasses or shrubs planted in parallel rows to crops. They are very effective in reducing wind and water erosion which results in sediment trapping and water infiltration. They function in similar fashion to a contour buffer strip, just much narrower.\n\nField borders are bands or strips of perennial vegetation that is found on the edge of a cropland field. Field borders help with runoff only when it flows over the strip. They’re very effective in benefiting spraying operations because they allow for extra room between adjacent fields. They also provide room for farming equipment to turn around. Field borders are effective in reducing wind and water erosion and provide great wildlife habitat.\n\nFilter strips are areas of grass or other permanent vegetation that protect riparian areas from sediment runoff, pesticides, pathogens, organics and nutrients. These strips are very important in protecting stream banks and water quality. Filter strips work best when other conservation practices are used in order to drain water in their direction. Filter strips were originally used mostly in agriculture, but now are a common practice in urban areas where water quality has become an increasingly important issue.\n\nRiparian forest buffers are diverse communities of trees, shrubs and native perennial grasses. They are great for providing habitat for wildlife on land and in the water. Taller trees next to the streams help to lower water temperatures with shade which improves aquatic communities. The shrubs and grasses help to slow flooding and the larger trees can sometimes intercept nitrates before they reach the water with their deep roots.\n\nThe main purpose of a windbreak or a shelterbelt is to protect areas from wind causing erosion on the bare soil of croplands. Windbreaks can also serve as an area that separates fields and protects them from spray drift of pesticides.\n\nBuffer strips are very important in helping to provide habitat for many species of wildlife in the open farm lands by causing an edge effect. With much of the land open on farms having an edge allows a safe-haven for animals to move between different ecosystems. Buffers are also helpful in conserving biodiversity especially to that of rare or endangered species through the incorporation of native grasses into their seeding by the landowner. are especially important to pheasants, quail, chukar and songbirds because they provide the foods they need as well as the shelter from predators. Since most buffer strip areas have limited disturbance from farming it allows for a shelter to hide year round for many of the species including insects, birds, and mammals. When buffers run into and follow riparian areas along stream beds it is important to have larger vegetation like trees and shrubs that shade the water from the open sun. The water is then able to be cooler allowing for greater fish production and other aquatic plants and other biota to thrive in a less disturbed environment.\n\nThis area of vegetation following a body of water is noted as a riparian zone. These buffer areas often incorporate large trees that protect stream banks from excessive erosion and shade aquatic areas. The shade provided by the larger trees reduces water temperatures and light intensity from ultraviolet light. Debris including leaves and branches that fell from trees, often contain aquatic invertebrates important to the structure of the water following the \"River Continuum\" concept. Since the riparian zones contain a larger variety of plants the overall diversity is much greater as well. With more photosynthesis and higher amounts of available water plant primary production can increase in turn creating more potential food for the wildlife \n\nThe USDA shows that grassed waterways of less than 5% slopes for a chosen waterway will greatly reduce velocity of draining water within the land. The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) offers the use of an online Soil survey to view the area of land to be planted and examine slope and soil drainage. As viewed by the Natural Resources Conservation Service, soil drainage is the number one priority for location of certain grasses. Poorer drainage causes less infiltration of water into the soil as groundwater recharge causing ponding and flooding of surrounding crops. Higher drainage becomes more droughty which hinders the establishment of certain grasses good for waterways. Medium soil drainage becomes the most suitable for planting. Determining exact grasses and seed amounts to plant follows specifications of a local NRCS Field Office Technical Guide and the Contour Buffer practice standard while taking practice on land and regional environmental conditions into consideration.\n\nThe NRCS has shown contour strip cropping provides the greatest effectiveness when slopes of the area are within 4-8%. For greater success in lowering the erosion, contour strips on the slopes need to follow the contours of the landscape. Row crops like corn, legumes, or soybeans should alternate strips of small grains or forages to successfully limit erosion and slowing or capturing the runoff of fertilizers and pesticides. Tests from the NRCS have shown that the smaller tighter rooted grasses and hays provide more surface cover to prevent rain and wind erosion while slowing runoff, increasing infiltration, and trapping sediment from the high erosive row crops. Proper planting of the contour crops is important for higher success of erosion control to protect highly fertile topsoil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54046997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54046997", "title": "Circannual cycle", "text": "Circannual cycle\n\nA circannual cycle is a biological process that occurs in living creatures over the period of approximately one year. This cycle was first discovered by Ebo Gwinner and Canadian biologist Ted Pengelley. It is classified as an Infradian rhythm, which is biological process with a period longer than that of a circadian rhythm, less than one cycle per 28 hours. These processes continue even in artificial environments in which seasonal cues have been removed by scientists. The term circannual is Latin, circa meaning approximately and annual relating to one year. Chronobiology is the field of biology pertaining to periodic rhythms that occur in living organisms in response to external stimuli such as photoperiod.\n\nThe location of the physical circannual timer in organisms and how it works are almost entirely unknown.\n\nIn one study performed by Eberhard Gwinner, two species of birds were born in a controlled environment without ever being exposed to external stimuli. They were presented with a fixed Photoperiod of 10 hours of light and 14 hours of darkness each day. The birds were exposed to these conditions for eight years and consistently molted at the same time as they would have in the wild, indicating that this physiological cycle is innate rather than governed environmentally.\n\nResearchers Ted Pengelley and Ken Fisher studied the circannual clock in the golden-mantled ground squirrel. They exposed the squirrels to twelve hours of light and 12 hours of darkness and at a constant temperature for three years. Despite this constant cycle, they continued to hibernate once a year with each episode preceded by an increase in body weight and food consumption. During the first year, the squirrels began hibernation in late October. They started hibernating in mid August and early April respectively for the following two years, displaying a circannual rhythm with a period of about 10 months.\n\nA classic example in insects is the varied carpet beetle.\n\nGenerating biological rhythms internally helps organisms anticipate important changes in the environment before they occur, thus providing the organisms with time to prepare and survive. For example, some plants have a very strict time frame in regards to blooming and preparing for spring. If they begin their preparations too early or too late they risk not being pollinated, competing with different species, or other factors that might affect their survival rate. Having a circannual cycle may keep them from making this mistake if a particular geographic region experiences a false spring, where the weather becomes exceptionally warm early for a short period of time before returning to winter temperatures.\n\nSimilarly, bird plumage and mammal fur change with the approach of winter, and is triggered by the shortening photoperiod of autumn. The circannual cycle can also be useful for animals that Migrate or Hibernate. Many animals' reproductive organs change in response to changes in photoperiod. Male gonads will grow during the onset of spring to promote reproduction among the species. These enlarged gonads would be nearly impossible to keep year round and would be inefficient for the species. Many female animals will only produce eggs during certain times of the year.\n\nChanging climate may unravel ecosystems in which different organisms use different internal calendars. Warming temperatures may lead to earlier blooms of flora in spring. For instance, one study performed by Menzel et al., analyzed 125,000 phenological records of 542 plant species in 21 European countries from 1971 to 2000 and found that 78% of all plants studied advanced in flowering, leafing, and fruiting while only three percent were significantly delayed. They determined that the average advance of spring and summer was 2.5 days per decade in Europe. Meanwhile, fauna may breed or migrate based on the length of day, and thus might arrive too late for critical food supplies they co-evolved with.\n\nFor example, the Parus major closely times the hatching of their chicks to the emergence of the protein-rich winter moth caterpillar, which in turn hatches to meet the budding of oaks. These birds are a single-brood bird, meaning they breed once a year with about nine chicks per brood. If the birds and caterpillars and buds all emerge at the right time, the caterpillars eat the new oak leaves and their population increases dramatically, and this hopefully will coincide with the arrival of the new chicks, allowing them to eat. But if plants, insects, and birds respond differently to the advance of spring or other phenology changes, the relationship may be altered.\n\nAs another example, studies of the Pied Flycatcher (ficedula hypoleuca) have shown that their spring migration timing is triggered by an internal circannual clock that is fine tuned to day length. These particular birds overwinter in dry tropical forest in Western Africa and breed in temperate forests in Europe, over 4,500 km away. From 1980-2000, temperatures at the time of arrival and the start of breeding have warmed significantly. They have advanced their mean laying date by ten days, but have not advanced the spring arrival on their breeding grounds because their migration behavior is triggered by photoperiod rather than temperature.\n\nIn short, even if each individual species can easily live with elevated temperatures, disruptions of phenology timing at ecosystem level may still imperil them.\n\nOne reason for the paucity of research on circannual cycles is the duration of required efforts. The ratio of the period length of a circannual cycle to the length of the productive life of a scientist makes this branch of chronobiology difficult. It takes an entire year to get a time series which makes it difficult to see how these cycles adjust over the years. To put this into perspective, a two-week experiment for a circadian biologist would take fourteen years for a circannual researcher, in order to achieve the same level of data robustness for the conclusions.\n"}
{"id": "1629209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629209", "title": "Citadel (software)", "text": "Citadel (software)\n\nCitadel is the name of a bulletin board system (BBS) computer program, and of the genre of programs it inspired. Citadels were notable for their room-based structure (see below) and relatively heavy emphasis on messages and conversation as opposed to gaming and files. The first Citadel came online in 1980 with a single 300 baud modem; eventually many versions of the software, both clones and those descended from the original code base (but all usually called \"Citadels\"), became popular among BBS callers and sysops, particularly in areas such as the Pacific Northwest, Northern California and Upper Midwest of the United States, where development of the software was ongoing. Citadel BBSes were most popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s, but when the Internet became more accessible for online communication, Citadels began to decline. However, some versions of the software, from small community BBSes to large systems supporting thousands of simultaneous users, are still in use today. Citadel development has always been collaborative with a strong push to keep the source code in the public domain. This makes Citadel one of the oldest surviving FOSS projects.\n\nThe utilization of a natural metaphor, the concept of rooms devoted to topics, marked Citadel's main advancement over previous BBS packages in the area of organization. Messages are associated with rooms, to which the user moves in order to participate in discussions; similarly, a room could optionally give access to the underlying file system, permitting the organization of available files in an organic manner. Most installations permitted any user to create a room, resulting in a dynamic ebb and flow closer to true conversation than most other BBS packages achieved. Certain versions of Citadel extend the metaphor of rooms with “hallways” and/or “floors,” organizing groups of rooms according to system requirement. By contrast, previous bulletin board software emphasized the availability of files, with a single uncoupled message area that could only be read linearly, forward or backward.\n\nCitadel further improved the user experience in the area of command and control. Based on Alan Kay’s philosophy of user-interface design, “Simple things should be simple; complex things should be possible,” and influenced by the fact that Citadel was developed in an era of 300 baud modems, the basic and most heavily used commands are accessed via single keystrokes. The most common commands are <G>oto (the next room with new messages), <N>ew messages (display the New messages in the room to the user), and <E>nter a message into the room. Other single keystroke commands exist as well, such as <K>nown rooms, which lists the rooms known to the user.\n\nThis elegantly small command set made the system so usable that many daily users during Citadel’s golden era were never aware that Citadel also provided sophisticated capabilities. These are known as the “dot” commands and build logically from the set of single keystroke commands. A simple example would be the requirement to go directly to a specified room. The user would type <.G>oto <roomname>”, where the text between the brackets is user typed, while the rest is filled in by the system. A more complex example might be <.R>ead ll rooms <Z>modem <N>ew messages (.RAZN), which results in all of the new messages in all of the rooms known to the user being sent to the user via the ZMODEM protocol. Filters for users, keyword searches, and other capabilities have been implemented, depending on the version of Citadel.\n\nCitadel was originally written for the CP/M operating system in 1981 by Jeff Prothero, known to the nascent Citadel world as Cynbe ru Taren (CrT). Unlike most BASIC-based BBS programs of the time, it was written in a fairly standard dialect of C known as BDS C, a compiler written and distributed by Leor Zolman. The first installation came online in December, 1981, running on a Heathkit H-89, and in its 6 month lifetime achieved immediate success.\n\nVersion 2 debuted on David Mitchell's ICS BBS, and with the release of 2.11, Prothero's involvement with the project ended following a conflict centered around a user called \"sugar bunny\". He released the source to the public domain and it became available as a download from various systems as well as through the C Users Group.\n\nAt this point, the history of Citadel becomes complex as many individuals began modifying the source to their own ends, and lacking modern distributed source tracking, innovations were never incorporated into a central source repository, as such a thing did not exist. Initially, Bruce King, David Bonn (releasing under the name Stonehenge), Caren Park, and James Shields, amongst others, picked up the opportunity in the Seattle area.\n\nThe longest lived fork from the 2.10 code started in the American Midwest, when Hue White (aka Hue, Jr.) ported the code to MS-DOS and called it Citadel-86 (\"C-86\"). His board, Citadel-86 Test System, served not only as a discussion board and distribution center for the software, but also was the focal point for a lively Citadel-86 community in the 612 area code (the Twin Cities), which at their peak numbered roughly forty systems, and probably more than 100 over the years. Numerous suggestions from sysops and users, both local and national, guided the growth of Citadel-86, including the addition of a network capability as well as enhancements to the command set. Hue's contributions were substantial enough that several other porting projects used Citadel-86 as source material, such as Asgard-86 (MS-DOS), Macadel (Macintosh), STadel (Atari ST, fnordadel), Citadel-68K (Amiga), and Citadel:K2NE (MS-DOS), and many of these contributed back to Hue Jr's project. Most of these ports were compatible with the growing Citadel-86 network (C86Net). Local systems would network with each other on a demand basis (due to the work of David Parsons), while the long haul network was serviced late at night.\n\nAn early fork from Citadel-86 was DragCit, written by The Dragon. DragCit also introduced networking code, but the DragCit network was not generally compatible with the Citadel-86 network. DragCit forked to several more versions, eventually leading to efforts to merge several code bases under the guidance of Matt Pfleger, Richard Goldfinder, Brent Bottles, Don Kimberlin, and Elisabeth Perrin, the end result being Citadel+, a multiuser capable version of the software, which also included advanced scripting, user control of message displays, and other features.\n\nImplementations that share the familiar Citadel user interface, but are not derived from the original Citadel code base, are also common. They have ranged from vanity projects such as a Citadel-like control program to control the serial port of an advanced graphing calculator, to full-blown efforts to modernize the Citadel interface with modern protocols.\n\nSome of the more notable ones included Glenn Gorman's TRS-80 BASIC implementation called Minibin, a clone of Cit-86 intended to run on a Unix running on Motorola processors called Cit/68, and a Unix version, technically called Citadel/UX but referred to simply as \"Citadel\" in the mainstream open source community. This version of Citadel is still being developed, extending the Citadel metaphor to enable what its developers call \"a messaging and collaboration platform (for) connecting communities of people together\": a groupware platform.\n\nSeveral efforts have also been made to present the Citadel paradigm as a web service, including Webadel, written by Jarrin Jambik, a former Citadel-86 sysop, and Anansi-web, anansi-web.com hosted by former Citadel-86 Sysop, Ultravox the Muse. The only current actively developed web-enabled Citadels are Citadel/UX and PenguinCit, a PHP-based Citadel.\n\n"}
{"id": "18934404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934404", "title": "Copyleft", "text": "Copyleft\n\nCopyleft, distinguished from copyright, is the practice of offering people the right to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a work with the stipulation that the same rights be preserved in derivative works created later. Copyleft software licenses are considered \"protective\" or \"reciprocal\", as contrasted with permissive free software licenses.\n\nCopyleft is a form of licensing, and can be used to maintain copyright conditions for works ranging from computer software, to documents, to art, to scientific discoveries and instruments in medicine. In general, copyright law is used by an author to prohibit recipients from reproducing, adapting, or distributing copies of their work. In contrast, under copyleft, an author must give every person who receives a copy of the work permission to reproduce, adapt, or distribute it, with the accompanying requirement that any resulting copies or adaptations are also bound by the same licensing agreement.\n\nCopyleft licenses for software require that information necessary for reproducing and modifying the work must be made available to recipients of the binaries. The source code files will usually contain a copy of the license terms and acknowledge the authors.\n\nCopyleft type licenses are a novel use of existing copyright law to ensure a work remains freely available. The GNU General Public License (GPL), originally written by Richard Stallman, was the first software copyleft license to see extensive use, and continues to dominate in that area. Creative Commons, a non-profit organization founded by Lawrence Lessig, provides a similar license provision condition called share-alike.\n\nCopyleft is a copyright licensing scheme in which an author surrenders some, but not all, rights under copyright law. Instead of allowing a work to fall completely into the public domain (where no ownership of copyright is claimed), copyleft allows an author to impose some restrictions on those who want to engage in activities that would more usually be reserved by the copyright holder. Under copyleft, derived works may be produced provided they are released under the compatible copyleft scheme.\n\nThe underlying principle is that one benefits freely from the work of others, but any modifications one makes public must be released under similar terms. For this reason some copyleft licenses are also known as reciprocal licenses, they have also been described as \"viral\" due to their self-perpetuating terms.\nUnder fair use, however, the copyleft license may be superseded, just like regular copyrights. Therefore, any person utilizing a copyleft-licensed source for their own work is free to choose any other license provided they meet the fair use standard.\n\nAccording to Free Software Foundation compliance engineer David Turner, the term \"viral license\" creates a misunderstanding and a fear of using copylefted free software. David McGowan has written that there is no reason to believe the GPL could force proprietary software to become free software, but could \"try to enjoin the firm from distributing commercially a program that combined with the GPL'd code to form a derivative work, and to recover damages for infringement.\" If the firm \"actually copied code from a GPL'd program, such a suit would be a perfectly ordinary assertion of copyright, which most private firms would defend if the shoe were on the other foot.\"\nRichard Stallman has described this view with an analogy, saying, \"The GPL's domain does not spread by proximity or contact, only by deliberate inclusion of GPL-covered code in your program. It spreads like a spider plant, not like a virus.\"\n\nWhile copyright law gives software authors control over copying, distribution and modification of their works, the goal of copyleft is to give all users of the software the freedom to carry out these activities. In this way, copyleft licenses are distinct from other types of free software licenses, which do not guarantee that all subsequent recipients of the program receive these rights, or the source code needed to make them effective. In particular, permissive free software licenses such as BSD allow re-distributors to remove some or all these rights, and do not require the distribution of source code.\n\nReuses of open source software which subvert the freedom of the software by adding extra restrictions are called open source hijacking. Other forms of open source licensing are susceptible to hijacking, so creators who desire that their work remain free may choose to use copyleft. The Open Directory Project (ODP, also known as DMOZ), which is created and maintained entirely by volunteer editors, can be considered an example of open-source hijacking. Since all of the top search engines use DMOZ, it is an extremely important public commodity which is entirely built by volunteer contributions. Despite this, the DMOZ has remained a commercial product for its entire existence.\n\nThe economic incentives to work on copyleft content can vary. Traditional copyright law is designed to promote progress by providing economic benefits to creators. When choosing to copyleft their work, content creators may seek complementary benefits like recognition from their peers. The open-source culture had been described as a gift culture, where social status is determined by an individual's contributions. Working on free software may also be an outlet for programmers to fill a need they have noticed. For some creators, keeping their work open is an incentive in and of itself. For these programmers, preventing commercial enterprises from absorbing and selling their product is another incentive.\n\nCopyleft software has economic effects beyond the individual creators. The presence of quality copyleft software can force commercial producers to increase the quality of their products, which must compete with free software. This may also have the effect of preventing large commercial entities from applying monopoly prices. However, competition with proprietary software can also be a reason to forego copyleft. The Free Software Foundation recommends that when “widespread use of the code is vital for advancing the cause of free software,” allowing the code to be copied and used freely is more important than a copyleft.\n\nAn early use of the word \"copyleft\" was in Li-Chen Wang's Palo Alto Tiny BASIC's distribution notice \"@COPYLEFT ALL WRONGS RESERVED\" in June 1976, but Tiny BASIC was not distributed under any form of copyleft distribution terms, so the wordplay is the only similarity.\n\nThe concept of copyleft was described in Richard Stallman's GNU Manifesto in 1985, where he wrote:\nGNU is not in the public domain. Everyone will be permitted to modify and redistribute GNU, but no distributor will be allowed to restrict its further redistribution. That is to say, proprietary modifications will not be allowed. I want to make sure that all versions of GNU remain free.\nStallman worked a few years earlier on a Lisp interpreter. Symbolics asked to use the Lisp interpreter, and Stallman agreed to supply them with a public domain version of his work. Symbolics extended and improved the Lisp interpreter, but when Stallman wanted access to the improvements that Symbolics had made to his interpreter, Symbolics refused. Stallman then, in 1984, proceeded to work towards eradicating this emerging behavior and culture of proprietary software, which he named \"software hoarding\". This was not the first time Stallman had dealt with proprietary software, but he deemed this interaction a \"turning point\". He justified software sharing, protesting that when sharing, the software online can be copied without the loss of the original piece of work. Everyone is a winner. The software can be used multiple times without ever being damaged or wearing out.\n\nAs Stallman deemed it impractical in the short term to eliminate current copyright law and the wrongs he perceived it perpetuated, he decided to work within the framework of existing law; in 1985, he created his own copyright license, the Emacs General Public License, the first copyleft license. This later evolved into the GNU General Public License, which is now one of the most popular Free Software licenses. For the first time a copyright holder had taken steps to ensure that the maximal number of rights be perpetually transferred to a program's users, no matter what subsequent revisions anyone made to the original program. This original GPL did not grant rights to the public at large, only those who had already received the program; but it was the best that could be done under existing law.\n\nThe new license was not at this time given the copyleft label. Richard Stallman stated that the use of \"Copyleft\" comes from Don Hopkins, who mailed him a letter in 1984 or 1985, on which was written: \"Copyleft – all rights reversed.\" The term \"kopyleft\" with the notation \"All Rites Reversed\" was also in use in the early 1970s, within the \"Principia Discordia\", which may have inspired Hopkins or influenced other usage. And in the arts Ray Johnson had earlier coined the term independently as it pertained to his making of and distribution of his mixed media imagery in his mail art and ephemeral gifts, for which he encouraged the making of derivative works. (While the phrase appears briefly as (or on) one of his pieces in the 2002 documentary \"How to Draw a Bunny\", Johnson himself is not referenced in the 2001 documentary \"Revolution OS\".)\n\nSome have suggested that copyleft became a divisive issue in the ideological strife between the Open Source Initiative and the free software movement. However, there is evidence that copyleft is both accepted and proposed by both parties:\n\n\nCommon practice for using copyleft is to codify the copying terms for a work with a license. Any such license typically gives each person possessing a copy of the work the same freedoms as the author, including (from the Free Software Definition):\n\nThese freedoms do not ensure that a derivative work will be distributed under the same liberal terms. In order for the work to be truly copyleft, the license has to ensure that the author of a derived work can only distribute such works under the same or equivalent license.\n\nIn addition to restrictions on copying, copyleft licenses address other possible impediments. These include ensuring the rights cannot be later revoked and requiring the work and its derivatives to be provided in a form that facilitates modification. In software, this requires that the source code of the derived work be made available together with the software itself.\n\nCopyleft licenses necessarily make creative use of relevant rules and laws. For example, when using copyright law, those who contribute to a work under copyleft usually must gain, defer or assign copyright holder status. By submitting the copyright of their contributions under a copyleft license, they deliberately give up some of the rights that normally follow from copyright, including the right to be the unique distributor of copies of the work.\n\nSome laws used for copyleft licenses vary from one country to another, and may also be granted in terms that vary from country to country. For example, in some countries it is acceptable to sell a software product without warranty, in standard GNU GPL style (see articles 11 and 12 of the GNU GPL version 2), while in most European countries it is not permitted for a software distributor to waive all warranties regarding a sold product. For this reason the extent of such warranties are specified in most European copyleft licenses. Regarding that, see the European Union Public Licence EUPL, or the CeCILL license, a license that allows one to use GNU GPL (see article 5 of the EUPL and article 5.3.4 of CeCILL) in combination with a limited warranty (see article 7 and 8 of the EUPL and 9 of CeCILL). For projects which will be run over a network, a variation of the GPL is provided in the Affero General Public License, which ensures that the source code is available to users of network software.\n\nCopyleft is a distinguishing feature of some free software licenses. Many free software licenses are not copyleft licenses because they do not require the licensee to distribute derivative works under the same license. There is an ongoing debate as to which class of license provides the greater degree of freedom. This debate hinges on complex issues such as the definition of freedom and whose freedoms are more important, or whether to maximize the freedom of all potential future recipients of a work (\"freedom from\" the creation of proprietary software). Non-copyleft free software licenses maximize the freedom of the initial recipient (\"freedom to\" create proprietary software).\n\nIn common with the Creative Commons share-alike licensing system, GNU's Free Documentation License allows authors to apply limitations to certain sections of their work, exempting some parts of their creation from the full copyleft mechanism. In the case of the GFDL, these limitations include the use of invariant sections, which may not be altered by future editors. The initial intention of the GFDL was as a device for supporting the documentation of copylefted software. However, the result is that it can be used for any kind of document.\n\nThe strength of the copyleft governing a work is an expression of the extent that the copyleft provisions can be efficiently imposed on all kinds of derived works. \"Weak copyleft\" refers to licenses where not all derived works inherit the copyleft license; whether a derived work inherits or not often depends on the manner in which it was derived.\n\n\"Weak copyleft\" licenses are generally used for the creation of software libraries, to allow other software to link to the library, and then be redistributed without the legal requirement for the work to be distributed under the library's copyleft license. Only changes to the weak-copylefted software itself become subject to the copyleft provisions of such a license, not changes to the software that links to it. This allows programs of any license to be compiled and linked against copylefted libraries such as glibc (the GNU project's implementation of the C standard library), and then redistributed without any re-licensing required.\n\nThe most well known free software license that uses strong copyleft is the GNU General Public License. A stronger copyleft license is the AGPL which requires the publishing of the source code also for the usage case software as a service, (\"see also\" the term sometimes used, \"service as a software substitute [SaaSS]\") e.g. when software is deployed on servers. The Sybase Open Watcom Public License is among the strongest copyleft license, as this license closes the \"private usage\" loophole of the GPL, and requires the publishing of source code in any use case.\n\nFree software licenses that use \"weak\" copyleft include the GNU Lesser General Public License and the Mozilla Public License. \nExamples of non-copyleft (\"permissive\") free software licenses include the X11 license, Apache license and the BSD licenses.\nThe concrete effect of strong vs. weak copyleft has yet to be tested in court.\n\nThe Design Science License is a strong copyleft license that can apply to any work -- not only software or documentation, but also to literature, artworks, music, photography, and video. It was created by Michael Stutz after his interest in applying GNU-style copyleft to non-software works, which later came to be called Open content. In the 1990s the DSL was used on music recordings, visual art, and even novels. It is now hosted on the Free Software Foundation website's license list, but it is not considered compatible with the GPL by the Free Software Foundation.\n\n\"Full\" and \"partial\" copyleft relate to another issue. Full copyleft exists when all parts of a work (except the license itself) may only be modified and distributed under the terms of the work's copyleft license. Partial copyleft, by contrast, exempts some parts of the work from the copyleft provisions, thus permitting distribution of some modifications under terms other than the copyleft license, or in some other way does not impose all the principles of copylefting on the work. For example, the GPL linking exception made for some software packages (see below).\n\nShare-alike imposes the requirement that any freedom that is granted regarding the original work must be granted on exactly the same or compatible terms in any derived work: this implies that any copyleft license is automatically a share-alike license, but not the other way around, as some share-alike licenses include further restrictions, for instance prohibiting commercial use. Another restriction is that not everyone wants to share their work and some share-alike agreements require that the whole body of work be shared, even if the author only wants to share a certain part. The plus side for the author of the source code is that any modification to the code will not only benefit the company, but the author will be recognized and hold equal claim over the changed code. Some permutations of the Creative Commons licenses are examples of share-alike.\n\n\"Viral license\" is a pejorative name for copyleft licenses. It originates from the terms 'General Public Virus' or 'GNU Public Virus' (GPV), which dates back to 1990, a year after the GPLv1 was released. The name \"viral licenses\" refers to the fact that any works derived from a copyleft work must preserve the copyleft permissions when distributed.\n\nSome BSD License advocates used the term derisively in regards to the GPL's tendency to absorb BSD licensed code without allowing the original BSD work to benefit from it, while at the same time promoting itself as \"freer\" than other licenses. Microsoft vice-president Craig Mundie remarked, \"This viral aspect of the GPL poses a threat to the intellectual property of any organization making use of it.\" In another context, Steve Ballmer declared that code released under GPL is useless to the commercial sector, since it can only be used if the resulting surrounding code is licensed under a GPL compatible license, and described it thus as \"a cancer that attaches itself in an intellectual property sense to everything it touches\".\n\nIn response to Microsoft's attacks on the GPL, several prominent Free Software developers and advocates released a joint statement supporting the license. According to FSF compliance engineer David Turner, it creates a misunderstanding and a fear of using copylefted free software. While a person can catch a virus without active action, license conditions take effect upon effective usage or adoption. David McGowan has written that there is no reason to believe the GPL could force proprietary software to become free software, but could \"try to enjoin the firm from distributing commercially a program that combined with the GPL'd code to form a derivative work, and to recover damages for infringement.\" If the firm \"actually copied code from a GPL'd program, such a suit would be a perfectly ordinary assertion of copyright, which most private firms would defend if the shoe were on the other foot.\"\n\nPopular copyleft licenses, such as the GPL, have a clause allowing components to interact with non-copyleft components as long as the communication is abstract, such as executing a command-line tool with a set of switches or interacting with a Web server. As a consequence, even if one module of an otherwise non-copyleft product is placed under the GPL, it may still be legal for other components to communicate with it normally. This allowed communication may or may not include reusing libraries or routines via dynamic linking – some commentators say it does, the FSF asserts it does not and explicitly adds an exception allowing it in the license for the GNU Classpath re-implementation of the Java library. This ambiguity is an important difference between the GPL and the LGPL, in that the LGPL specifically allows linking or compiling with the covered work.\n\nThe copyleft symbol is a backwards C in a circle (copyright symbol © mirrored). It has no legal significance. A 2016 proposal to add the symbol to a future version of Unicode was accepted by the Unicode Technical Committee. The code point was added in Unicode 11. \n\n, it is currently largely unimplemented in fonts, but can be approximated with character or the more widely available character between parenthesis '(ɔ)' or, if supported by the application, by combining it with the character : 'ↄ⃝'.\n\n"}
{"id": "20689455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20689455", "title": "Dan W. Brock", "text": "Dan W. Brock\n\nDan W. Brock (born 1937) is an American philosopher, bioethicist, and professor emeritus. He is the Frances Glessner Lee Professor Emeritus of Medical Ethics in the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School, the former Director of the Division of Medical Ethics (now the Center for Bioethics) at the Harvard Medical School, and former Director of the Harvard University Program in Ethics and Health (PEH). He has held the Tillinghast Professorship at Brown University and served as a member of the Department of Clinical Bioethics at the National Institutes of Health. Brock earned his B.A. in economics from Cornell University and his Ph.D. in philosophy from Columbia University.\n\nDan Brock has published over 150 articles relating to bioethics and philosophy and has served on numerous editorial boards. He has also worked with various international organizations on bioethics as a consultant including the World Health Organization and has given papers and talks all over the world.\n\nHe was President of the American Association of Bioethics (AAB) in 1995-96, and was a founding Board Member of the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities. He is a Fellow of the Hastings Center, a bioethics research institution.\n\nDr. Brock is currently retired as a professor, but is an editorial board member of 12 professional journals in ethics, bioethics and health policy, and has lectured widely at national and international conferences, professional societies, universities, and health care institutions. Most recently he served on a panel that updated 20-year-old guidelines and recommendations for evaluating cost-effectiveness in health and medicine, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Sept 13th 2016. He currently spends his time between his Boston and New York residences with his wife.\n\n\n\nThe American Society for Bioethics and Humanities, a bioethics research institution of which he was a founding Board Member conferred upon Dan Brock their Lifetime Achievement Award on October 19, 2018, in Anaheim CA, during their 20th Annual Meeting (October 18-21, 2018), when their theme is 'The Future is Now: Bioethics and Humanities Re-Imagine an Uncertain World'.\n\n\nCollaborating Authors\n\nInstitutions\n\nOrganizations\n\nNews\n"}
{"id": "18357172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18357172", "title": "Dhauti", "text": "Dhauti\n\nDhauti is an important part of the Shatkarma (sometimes known as Shatkriya), \nthe yogic system of body cleansing techniques. It is intended mainly to the cleaning of the digestive tract in its full length but it affects also the respiratory tract, external ears and eyes. According to Gheranda Samhita, it is divided into four parts: Antar (internal) dhauti, Danta (teeth) dhauti, Hrid (cardiac or chest region) dhauti and Moola shodhana (rectal cleansing).\n\nAntar Dhauti is further divided into four parts: Vatsara, Varisara, Agnisara, Bahishkrit.\nDanta Dhauti: Danta Mula, Jivha Mula, Karna Randha, Kapola Randha.\nHrid Dhauti: Danda Dhauti, Vaman Dhauti, Vastra Dhauti\n\nThe Yoga Book, Stephen Sturgess, (p117-122)\n"}
{"id": "18483349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18483349", "title": "Diligence", "text": "Diligence\n\nDiligence is one of the seven heavenly virtues. Diligent behavior is indicative of a work ethic; a belief that work is good in itself. Diligence is carefulness and persistent effort or work. \n\nBernard et al. suggest diligence in a student is defined as an effort he or she puts towards balanced and holistic development in mental, physical, social and spiritual dimensions. They find diligence in students is correlated with academic performance. This is especially found in younger students. The support of parents and educators encourages students to be diligent. Other factors which encourage diligence in students include motivation, discipline, concentration, responsibility and devotedness.\n\nThe last words of the Buddha were \"Strive on with diligence.\" Diligence is an integral part of all Buddhist teaching, and is considered the fourth of the pāramitā. In Mahayana tradition diligence is the third pāramitā and the first which is said to lead to liberation. The practice of diligence will bring an increase of qualities.\n\nDiligence, in Christianity, is the effort to do one's part, while keeping faith and reliance in God. In other words, diligence and faith are two sides of a mystery. One doesn’t know how, despite one's effort, it all works out. But diligence when combined with faith assures spiritual success. Diligence as one of seven virtues describes thoroughness, completeness and persistence of an action, particularly in matters of faith.\n\nAccording to Brian Hatcher, the precepts of Hinduism require a human being to discover and live a \"dharmic\" life. To live a \"dharmic\" life, one must live with right intention with diligence, and with concern for well being of others. The Hindus celebrate Diwali, a festival of lights, where Goddess Lakshmi (also called Goddess Sri) is worshipped; the goddess symbolizes thorough preparation, being organized, diligent and honest. These characteristics are considered by Hindus as essential for success and Shubh Labh (ethical profit).\n\nDue diligence is the necessary amount of diligence required in a professional activity to avoid being negligent. This commonly arises in major acquisitions where the legal principle of caveat emptor (\"let the buyer beware\") requires the purchaser to make a diligent survey of the property or service being sold. \n\n"}
{"id": "863333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863333", "title": "Dominicus Gundissalinus", "text": "Dominicus Gundissalinus\n\nDominicus Gundissalinus, also known as Domingo Gundisalvi or Gundisalvo ( 1115 – post 1190), was a philosopher and translator of Arabic to Medieval Latin active in Toledo. Among his translations, Gundissalinus worked on Avicenna's \"Liber de philosophia prima\" and \"De anima\", Ibn Gabirol's \"Fons vitae\", and al-Ghazali's \"Summa theoricae philosophiae\", in collaboration with the Jewish philosopher Abraham Ibn Daud and Johannes Hispanus. As a philosopher, Gundissalinus crucially contributed to the Latin assimilation of Arabic philosophy, being the first Latin thinker in receiving and developing doctrines, such as Avicenna's modal ontology or Ibn Gabirol's universal hylomorphism, that would soon be integrated into the thirteenth-century philosophical debate.\n\nBorn presumably in the Iberian Peninsula around 1115-1125, Gundissalinus received his education in Chartres, supposedly following the teaching of William of Conches and Thierry of Chartres. Since 1148, Gundissalinus is in Castile: the capitular archives of Segovia refer to him as archdeacon of Cuéllar, a small town not far from Segovia, where he presumably spent around 14 years, regarding which almost no information is available. Following Ibn Daud's request to the archbishop of Toledo, John II, to start a series of translations into Latin of Avicenna's \"Kitab al-Shifāʾ\", Gundissalinus moved to Toledo in 1161-1162, where he worked with Ibn Daud on the translation of Avicenna's \"De anima\", realised before 1166.\n\nGundissalinus remained in Toledo for twenty years, collaborating with Abraham Ibn Daud and Johannes Hispanus to the realisation of around twenty translations of Arabic works into Latin. In the Castilian capital, Gundissalinus also wrote his philosophical treatises. The Toledan chapter names Gundissalinus for the last time in 1178 but he presumably remained in Toledo at least until 1181, when a document written in Arabic mentions his name.\n\nThe last record witnessing Gundissalinus alive is the report of a meeting between the chapters of Segovia and Burgos, held in Segovia in 1190. It is probable that the last years of Gundissalinus's life were spent in that Castilian town, and he died sometime after 1190.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8641489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641489", "title": "Edward S. Reed", "text": "Edward S. Reed\n\nEdward Steven Reed (November 20, 1954 – February 14, 1997) was an American philosopher of science and an ecological psychologist in the vein of James J. Gibson.\n\nReed was born in New York, New York. He died in Mohnton, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "48587617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48587617", "title": "El Mostafa Higazy", "text": "El Mostafa Higazy\n\nEl Mostafa Higazy is an Egyptian philosopher who served as a political advisor to interim President Adly Mansour. He is also the founder of the Nasaq Foundation, an Egyptian think tank focused on issues of justice.\n\nHigazy studied engineering at USC, eventually earning a PhD in engineering and Strategic Management from USC. He founded NASAQ Foundation as a socio-political think tank, and subsequently founded ACME Corp as an economic arm of NASAQ.\n\nHigazy received much notice for his role as Mansour's political advisor, proving himself a charismatic spokesman.\n"}
{"id": "58165488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58165488", "title": "Eliezer of Beaugency", "text": "Eliezer of Beaugency\n\nEliezer of Beaugency was a Jewish French Bible exegete of the twelfth century.\n\nHe was born at Beaugency, capital of a canton in the department of Loiret. A student of Rashbam, Eliezer was one of the most distinguished representatives of Rashbam's school and of the exegesis of northern France. His chief concern was to find the connection between successive verses and the sequence of thought, a method that is also characteristic of the system of interpretation employed by Rashbam as well as Joseph Kara. Not concerned with grammatical observations or daring criticisms, he reached very happy results in explaining certain figurative passages in accordance with the metaphors employed in the context. He often used French terms to express his thoughts more clearly. His interpretation is entirely free from midrashic admixture. He was particularly interested in dating the Biblical prophecies and identifying the events mentioned in them.\nOf his works, the commentaries on Isaiah and Hosea were published prior to 1906. There still exists in manuscript a commentary on the other Minor Prophets and on Ezekiel. Extracts from his commentary on Job are also extant; and he himself refers to his commentary on Genesis. His commentaries on Amos and Jonah were published in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "4452463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452463", "title": "Enlightened moderation", "text": "Enlightened moderation\n\nEnlightened moderation is a term coined by a former Pakistani president, Pervez Musharraf; it applies to practicing a moderate Islam, as opposed to the interpretions of fundamentalist Islam.\n\nTo think properly as to rationalize thoughts, to be on the positive side of life and to prefer optimism, the theory goes, is to be against extremism.\n\nThe strategy of enlightened moderation was unveiled by Musharraf during the 2002 OIC Summit Conference in Malaysia.\n\nMusharraf explained his position in an opinion piece that was published in various newspapers in 2004. His plan for enlightened moderation has two sides. It calls \"for the Muslim world to shun militancy and extremism and adopt the path of socioeconomic uplift\" and \"for the West, and the United States in particular, to seek to resolve all political disputes with justice and to aid in the socioeconomic betterment of the deprived Muslim world\". \n\nMusharraf pointed out that moderation and enlightenment have been the traits of the Islamic world since the times of Muhammad.\n\nMusharraf wrote:\nI say to my brother Muslims: The time for renaissance has come. The way forward is through enlightenment. We must concentrate on human resource development through the alleviation of poverty and through education, health care and social justice. If this is our direction, it cannot be achieved through confrontation. We must adopt a path of moderation and a conciliatory approach to fight the common belief that Islam is a religion of militancy in conflict with modernization, democracy and secularism. All this must be done with a realization that, in the world we live in, fairness does not always rule. \nFundamentalist Islamic organizations have criticized Musharraf's vision of enlightened moderation. The Jamaat-e-Islami condemns it as a neologism for Westernization and American imperialism. Islam is innately a religion of enlightened moderation, they argue, and needs no Westernized amendments. Masooda Bano points out that the US is not likely to \"suddenly metamorphose into a benevolent entity, which will 'resolve all political disputes with justice.'\"\n\nCompare and contrast to \"Enlightened Underdevelopment.\" 1994. The Spirit and Power of Place: Human Environment and Sacrality: Essays Dedicated to Yi-Fu Tuan. In Rana P.B. Singh (ed.). Pps: 87-100. Varanasi, India: NGSI Publications No. 41. Concurrently published under same title in National Geographical Journal of India 40,1-4:87-100.\n\n"}
{"id": "9950962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9950962", "title": "František Mareš", "text": "František Mareš\n\nFrantišek Mareš (October 20, 1857 – February 6, 1942) was a Czechoslovak professor of physiology and philosophy, and nationalist politician. He was rector of the Charles University in 1920-21, and member of the National Democrats.\n\nMareš was born in Opatovice and died in České Budějovice (tomb - Hluboká nad Vltavou). He studied philosophy and medicine in Prague (postgraduate in Vienna). He promoted in 1886. He became a professor in 1890. He became a chairman of the Physiology Institute of the Charkes University in 1895, continuing in that capacity until 1928. In 1914 and 1920, he was appointed rector of the Charles University for one year. He was many times appointed dean of Faculty of Medicine. Honorary doctorate Mayo clinic.\n\nDuring the war and after the independence of Czechoslovakia from Austria-Hungary in 1918, Mareš became active in the Czechoslovak nationalist movement. He was an active member of the National Democrats, and became a member of the Revolutionary National Assembly of Czechoslovakia in 1918. In 1920, he was elected to the Senate, until the next election of 1925. At that time he became influenced by fascism, much to the dismay of the National Democratic leadership. In 1934, he was part of the leadership of the National Front (\"Národní fronta\"), later National Unity (\"Národní sjednocení\"). He was also a contributor to \"Vlajka\".\n\nMareš published his research papers mainly in German and French journals. The papers were oriented on metabolismus, neurophysiology and winter dormancy in rodents. For medical students he prepared great textbooks \"Všeobecná fysiologie\" and \"Fysiologie I-IV\". His philosophy was briefly based upon the Vitalism of Henri Bergson and Hans Driesch. He was a critic of positivism - book (1903) \"Idealism and Realism in Natural Sciences\". He also defended the \"Rukopis královédvorský\", which were later exposed as forgeries by scientific dating methods.\n"}
{"id": "33581790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33581790", "title": "George Caruana", "text": "George Caruana\n\nGeorge Caruana (1831–1872) was a Maltese minor philosopher mostly interested in epistemology. He held the Chair of Philosophy at the University of Malta (1859–72).\n\nCaruana was a diocesan priest. He was born in Victoria, Gozo in 1831, and dedicated his relatively short life to academic work. He studied at the bishop’s seminary in Gozo, and then at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy, from where he graduated as Doctor of Ecclesiastical Studies. Back in the Maltese islands, in 1858 Caruana was appointed Rector at the bishop’s seminary of Malta. Here he taught philosophy and mathematics. A few months later, in 1859, he was appointed Professor of the Chair of Philosophy at the University of Malta. His teaching compliments here were various: intellectual philosophy, moral philosophy, and metaphysics. During the same time, he was also member of the Committee of the National Library of Malta. Caruana occupied the Chair of Philosophy for thirteen years, until his premature death. He died on May 27, 1872. His funeral oration was delivered by fellow-philosopher Saviour Cumbo.\n\nOnly one work of Caruana is as yet known to exist. It is simply called Filosofia (Philosophy). The work is still in manuscript form. It is written in Italian, and contains 184 folios in Caruana’s own handwriting. The document is divided into an introduction, chapters, and paragraphs.\n\nCaruana deals with a number of themes, namely, knowledge, truth, nature, conscience, sensibility, imagination, intellect, intuition, judgement, discourse, memory, words, and such like subjects. All are discussed in a philosophically clear and argumentative way.\n\n"}
{"id": "634216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634216", "title": "Hard problem of consciousness", "text": "Hard problem of consciousness\n\nThe hard problem of consciousness is the problem of explaining how and why sentient organisms have qualia or phenomenal experiences—how and why it is that some internal states are felt states, such as heat or pain, rather than unfelt states, as in a thermostat or a toaster. The philosopher David Chalmers, who introduced the term \"hard problem\" of consciousness, contrasts this with the \"easy problems\" of explaining the ability to discriminate, integrate information, report mental states, focus attention, etc. Easy problems are easy because all that is required for their solution is to specify a mechanism that can perform the function. That is, their proposed solutions, regardless of how complex or poorly understood they may be, can be entirely consistent with the modern materialistic conception of natural phenomena. Chalmers claims that the problem of experience is distinct from this set and that the problem of experience will \"persist even when the performance of all the relevant functions is explained\".\n\nThe existence of a \"hard problem\" is controversial and has been disputed by philosophers such as Daniel Dennett and cognitive neuroscientists such as Stanislas Dehaene.\n\nIn \"Facing Up to the Problem of Consciousness\" (1995), Chalmers wrote:\n\nIt is undeniable that some organisms are subjects of experience. But the question of how it is that these systems are subjects of experience is perplexing. Why is it that when our cognitive systems engage in visual and auditory information-processing, we have visual or auditory experience: the quality of deep blue, the sensation of middle C? How can we explain why there is something it is like to entertain a mental image, or to experience an emotion? It is widely agreed that experience arises from a physical basis, but we have no good explanation of why and how it so arises. Why should physical processing give rise to a rich inner life at all? It seems objectively unreasonable that it should, and yet it does.\n\nIn the same paper, he also wrote:\n\nThe really hard problem of consciousness is the problem of experience. When we think and perceive there is a whir of information processing, but there is also a subjective aspect.\n\nThe philosopher Raamy Majeed noted in 2016 that the hard problem is, in fact, associated with two \"explanatory targets\":\n\nThe first fact concerns the relationship between the physical and the phenomenal (i.e., how and why are some physical states felt states), whereas the second concerns the very nature of the phenomenal itself (i.e., what does the felt state feel like?). Most responses to the hard problem are aimed at explaining either one of these facts or both.\n\nChalmers contrasts the hard problem with a number of (relatively) easy problems that consciousness presents. He emphasizes that what the easy problems have in common is that they all represent some ability, or the performance of some function or behavior. Examples of easy problems include:\n\n\nOther formulations of the \"hard problem\" include:\n\nThe hard problem has scholarly antecedents considerably earlier than Chalmers, as Chalmers himself has pointed out.\n\nThe physicist and mathematician Isaac Newton wrote in a 1672 letter to Henry Oldenburg:\n\nto determine by what modes or actions light produceth in our minds the phantasm of colour is not so .\n\nIn \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690), the philosopher and physician John Locke argued:\n\nDivide matter into as minute parts as you will (which we are apt to imagine a sort of spiritualizing or making a thinking thing of it) vary the figure and motion of it as much as you please—a globe, cube, cone, prism, cylinder, etc., whose diameters are but 1,000,000th part of a gry, will operate not otherwise upon other bodies of proportionable bulk than those of an inch or foot diameter—and you may as rationally expect to produce sense, thought, and knowledge, by putting together, in a certain figure and motion, gross particles of matter, as by those that are the very minutest that do anywhere exist. They knock, impel, and resist one another, just as the greater do; and that is all they can do... [I]t is impossible to conceive that matter, either with or without motion, could have originally in and from itself sense, perception, and knowledge; as is evident from hence that then sense, perception, and knowledge must be a property eternally inseparable from matter and every particle of it.\n\nThe polymath and philosopher Gottfried Leibniz wrote in 1714, as an example also known as Leibniz's gap:\n\nMoreover, it must be confessed that perception and that which depends upon it are inexplicable on mechanical grounds, that is to say, by means of figures and motions. And supposing there were a machine, so constructed as to think, feel, and have perception, it might be conceived as increased in size, while keeping the same proportions, so that one might go into it as into a mill. That being so, we should, on examining its interior, find only parts which work one upon another, and never anything by which to explain a perception.\n\nThe philosopher and political economist J.S. Mill wrote in \"A System of Logic\" (1843), Book V, Chapter V, section 3:\n\nNow I am far from pretending that it may not be capable of proof, or that it is not an important addition to our knowledge if proved, that certain motions in the particles of bodies are the conditions of the production of heat or light; that certain assignable physical modifications of the nerves may be the conditions not only of our sensations or emotions, but even of our thoughts; that certain mechanical and chemical conditions may, in the order of nature, be sufficient to determine to action the physiological laws of life. All I insist upon, in common with every thinker who entertains any clear idea of the logic of science, is, that it shall not be supposed that by proving these things one step would be made towards a real explanation of heat, light, or sensation; or that the generic peculiarity of those phenomena can be in the least degree evaded by any such discoveries, however well established. Let it be shown, for instance, that the most complex series of physical causes and effects succeed one another in the eye and in the brain to produce a sensation of colour; rays falling on the eye, refracted, converging, crossing one another, making an inverted image on the retina, and after this a motion—let it be a vibration, or a rush of nervous fluid, or whatever else you are pleased to suppose, along the optic nerve—a propagation of this motion to the brain itself, and as many more different motions as you choose; still, at the end of these motions, there is something which is not motion, there is a feeling or sensation of colour. Whatever number of motions we may be able to interpolate, and whether they be real or imaginary, we shall still find, at the end of the series, a motion antecedent and a colour consequent. The mode in which any one of the motions produces the next, may possibly be susceptible of explanation by some general law of motion: but the mode in which the last motion produces the sensation of colour, cannot be explained by any law of motion; it is the law of colour: which is, and must always remain, a peculiar thing. Where our consciousness recognises between two phenomena an inherent distinction; where we are sensible of a difference which is not merely of degree, and feel that no adding one of the phenomena to itself would produce the other; any theory which attempts to bring either under the laws of the other must be false; though a theory which merely treats the one as a cause or condition of the other, may possibly be true.\n\nThe biologist T.H. Huxley wrote in 1868:\n\nBut what consciousness is, we know not; and how it is that anything so remarkable as a state of consciousness comes about as the result of irritating nervous tissue, is just as unaccountable as the appearance of the Djin when Aladdin rubbed his lamp in the story, or as any other ultimate fact of nature.\n\nThe philosopher Thomas Nagel argued in 1974:\n\nIf physicalism is to be defended, the phenomenological features must themselves be given a physical account. But when we examine their subjective character it seems that such a result is impossible. The reason is that every subjective phenomenon is essentially connected with a single point of view, and it seems inevitable that an objective, physical theory will abandon that point of view.\n\nSince 1990, researchers including the molecular biologist Francis Crick and the neuroscientist Christof Koch have made significant progress toward identifying which neurobiological events occur concurrently to the experience of subjective consciousness. These postulated events are referred to as \"neural correlates of consciousness\" or NCCs. However, this research arguably addresses the question of \"which\" neurobiological mechanisms are linked to consciousness but not the question of \"why\" they should give rise to consciousness at all, the latter being the hard problem of consciousness as Chalmers formulated it. In \"On the Search for the Neural Correlate of Consciousness\", Chalmers said he is confident that, granting the principle that something such as what he terms global availability can be used as an indicator of consciousness, the neural correlates will be discovered \"in a century or two\". Nevertheless, he stated regarding their relationship to the hard problem of consciousness:\n\nOne can always ask why these processes of availability should give rise to consciousness in the first place. As yet we cannot explain why they do so, and it may well be that full details about the processes of availability will still fail to answer this question. Certainly, nothing in the standard methodology I have outlined answers the question; that methodology assumes a relation between availability and consciousness, and therefore does nothing to explain it. [...] So the hard problem remains. But who knows: Somewhere along the line we may be led to the relevant insights that show why the link is there, and the hard problem may then be solved.\n\nThe neuroscientist and Nobel laureate Eric Kandel wrote that locating the NCCs would not solve the hard problem, but rather one of the so-called easy problems to which the hard problem is contrasted. Kandel went on to note Crick and Koch's suggestion that once the binding problem—understanding what accounts for the unity of experience—is solved, it will be possible to solve the hard problem empirically. However, neuroscientist Anil Seth argued that emphasis on the so-called hard problem is a distraction from what he calls the \"real problem\": understanding the neurobiology underlying consciousness, namely the neural correlates of various conscious processes. This more modest goal is the focus of most scientists working on consciousness. Psychologist Susan Blackmore believes, by contrast, that the search for the neural correlates of consciousness is futile and itself predicated on an erroneous belief in the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nIntegrated information theory (IIT), developed by the neuroscientist and psychiatrist Giulio Tononi in 2004 and more recently also advocated by Koch, is one of the most discussed models of consciousness in neuroscience and elsewhere. The theory proposes an identity between consciousness and integrated information, with the latter item (denoted as Φ) defined mathematically and thus in principle measurable. The hard problem of consciousness, write Tononi and Koch, may indeed be intractable when working from matter to consciousness. However, because IIT inverts this relationship and works from phenomenological axioms to matter, they say it could be able to solve the hard problem. In this vein, proponents have said the theory goes beyond identifying human neural correlates and can be extrapolated to all physical systems. Tononi wrote (along with two colleagues):\n\nWhile identifying the “neural correlates of consciousness” is undoubtedly important, it is hard to see how it could ever lead to a satisfactory explanation of what consciousness is and how it comes about. As will be illustrated below, IIT offers a way to analyze systems of mechanisms to determine if they are properly structured to give rise to consciousness, how much of it, and of which kind.\n\nAs part of a broader critique of IIT, Michael Cerullo suggested that the theory's proposed explanation is in fact for what he dubs (following Scott Aaronson) the \"Pretty Hard Problem\" of methodically inferring which physical systems are conscious—but would not solve Chalmers' hard problem. \"Even if IIT is correct,\" he argues, \"it does not explain why integrated information generates (or is) consciousness.\"\n\nSome philosophers, including David Chalmers in the late 20th century and Alfred North Whitehead earlier in the 1900s, argued that conscious experience is a fundamental constituent of the universe, a form of panpsychism sometimes referred to as panexperientialism. Chalmers argued that a \"rich inner life\" is not logically reducible to the functional properties of physical processes. He states that consciousness must be described using nonphysical means. This description involves a fundamental ingredient capable of clarifying phenomena that have not been explained using physical means. Use of this fundamental property, Chalmers argues, is necessary to explain certain functions of the world, much like other fundamental features, such as mass and time, and to explain significant principles in nature.\n\nThe philosopher Thomas Nagel posited in 1974 that experiences are essentially subjective (accessible only to the individual undergoing them—i.e., felt only by the one feeling them), while physical states are essentially objective (accessible to multiple individuals). So at this stage, he argued, we have no idea what it could even mean to claim that an essentially subjective state just \"is\" an essentially non-subjective state (i.e., how and why a felt state is just a functional state). In other words, we have no idea of what reductivism really amounts to.\n\nNew mysterianism, such as that of the philosopher Colin McGinn, proposes that the human mind, in its current form, will not be able to explain consciousness.\n\nSome philosophers, such as Daniel Dennett and Peter Hacker oppose the idea that there is a hard problem. These theorists have argued that once we really come to understand what consciousness is, we will realize that the hard problem is unreal. For instance, Dennett asserts that the so-called hard problem will be solved in the process of answering the \"easy\" ones (which, as he has clarified, he does not consider \"easy\" at all). In contrast with Chalmers, he argues that consciousness is not a fundamental feature of the universe and instead will eventually be fully explained by natural phenomena. Instead of involving the nonphysical, he says, consciousness merely plays tricks on people so that it appears nonphysical—in other words, it simply seems like it requires nonphysical features to account for its powers. In this way, Dennett compares consciousness to stage magic and its capability to create extraordinary illusions out of ordinary things.\n\nTo show how people might be commonly fooled into overstating the powers of consciousness, Dennett describes a normal phenomenon called change blindness, a visual process that involves failure to detect scenery changes in a series of alternating images. He uses this concept to argue that the overestimation of the brain's visual processing implies that the conception of our consciousness is likely not as pervasive as we make it out to be. He claims that this error of making consciousness more mysterious than it is could be a misstep in any developments toward an effective explanatory theory. Critics such as Galen Strawson reply that, in the case of consciousness, even a mistaken experience retains the essential face of experience that needs to be explained, contra Dennett.\n\nTo address the question of the hard problem, or how and why physical processes give rise to experience, Dennett states that the phenomenon of having experience is nothing more than the performance of functions or the production of behavior, which can also be referred to as the easy problems of consciousness. He states that consciousness itself is driven simply by these functions, and to strip them away would wipe out any ability to identify thoughts, feelings, and consciousness altogether. So, unlike Chalmers and other dualists, Dennett says that the easy problems and the hard problem cannot be separated from each other. To him, the hard problem of experience is included among—not separate from—the easy problems, and therefore they can only be explained together as a cohesive unit.\n\nCritics of Dennett's approach, such as Chalmers and Nagel, argue that Dennett's argument misses the point of the inquiry by merely re-defining consciousness as an external property and ignoring the subjective aspect completely. This has led detractors to refer to Dennett's book \"Consciousness Explained\" as \"Consciousness Ignored\" or \"Consciousness Explained Away\". Dennett discussed this at the end of his book with a section entitled \"Consciousness Explained or Explained Away?\"\n\nLike Dennett, Hacker argues that the hard problem is fundamentally incoherent and that \"consciousness studies\", as it exists today, is \"literally a total waste of time\":\n\nThe whole endeavour of the consciousness studies community is absurd—they are in pursuit of a chimera. They misunderstand the nature of consciousness. The conception of consciousness which they have is incoherent. The questions they are asking don't make sense. They have to go back to the drawing board and start all over again.\n\nThough the most common arguments against deflationary accounts and eliminative materialism are the argument from qualia and the argument that conscious experiences are irreducible to physical states—or that current popular definitions of \"physical\" are incomplete—the objection has been posed that the one and same reality can appear in different ways, and that the numerical difference of these ways is consistent with a unitary mode of existence of the reality. Critics of the deflationary approach object that qualia are a case where a single reality cannot have multiple appearances. For example, the philosopher John Searle pointed out: \"where consciousness is concerned, the existence of the appearance is the reality\".\n\nA notable deflationary account is the higher-order theories of consciousness. In 2005, the philosopher Peter Carruthers wrote about \"recognitional concepts of experience\", that is, \"a capacity to recognize [a] type of experience when it occurs in one's own mental life\", and suggested that such a capacity does not depend upon qualia.\n\nThe philosophers Glenn Carruthers and Elizabeth Schier said in 2012 that the main arguments for the existence of a hard problem—philosophical zombies, Mary's room, and Nagel's bats—are only persuasive if one already assumes that \"consciousness must be independent of the structure and function of mental states, i.e. that there is a hard problem\". Hence, the arguments beg the question. The authors suggest that \"instead of letting our conclusions on the thought experiments guide our theories of consciousness, we should let our theories of consciousness guide our conclusions from the thought experiments\".\n\nIn 2013, the philosopher Elizabeth Irvine argued that both science and folk psychology do not treat mental states as having phenomenal properties, and therefore \"the hard problem of consciousness may not be a genuine problem for non-philosophers (despite its overwhelming obviousness to philosophers), and questions about consciousness may well 'shatter' into more specific questions about particular capacities\".\n\nThe philosopher Massimo Pigliucci distances himself from eliminativism, but he said in 2013 that the hard problem is still misguided, resulting from a \"category mistake\":\n\nOf course an explanation isn't the same as an experience, but that's because the two are completely independent categories, like colors and triangles. It is obvious that I cannot experience what it is like to be you, but I can potentially have a complete explanation of how and why it is possible to be you.\n\nIn 2017, the philosopher Marco Stango, in a paper on John Dewey's approach to the problem of consciousness (which preceded Chalmers' formulation of the hard problem by over half a century), noted that Dewey's approach would see the hard problem as the consequence of an unjustified assumption that feelings and functional behaviors are not the same physical process: \"For the Deweyan philosopher, the 'hard problem' of consciousness is a 'conceptual fact' only in the sense that it is a : the mistake of failing to see that the physical can be had as an episode of immediate sentiency.\"\n\nA complete reductionistic or mechanistic theory of consciousness must include the description of a mechanism by which the subjective aspect of consciousness is perceived and reported by people. Philosophers such as Chalmers or Nagel have rejected reductionist theories of consciousness because they believe that the reports of subjective experience constitute a vast and important body of empirical evidence which is ignored by modern reductionist theories of consciousness.\n\nDennett argued that solving the easy problem of consciousness, that is finding out how the brain works, will eventually lead to the solution of the hard problem of consciousness. In particular, the solution can be achieved by identifying the stimuli and neurological pathways whose operation generates evidence of subjective experience.\n\nNeuroscientist Michael Graziano, in his book \"Consciousness and the Social Brain\", advocates what he calls attention schema theory, in which our perception of being conscious is merely an error in perception, held by brains which evolved to hold erroneous and incomplete models of their own internal workings, just as they hold erroneous and incomplete models of their own bodies and of the external world.\n\nCognitive neuroscientist Stanislas Dehaene, in his 2014 book \"Consciousness and the Brain\", summarized the previous decades of experimental consciousness research involving reports of subjective experience, and argued that Chalmers' \"easy problems\" of consciousness are actually the hard problems and the \"hard problems\" are based only upon ill-defined intuitions that, according to Dehaene, are continually shifting as understanding evolves:\n\nOnce our intuitions are educated by cognitive neuroscience and computer simulations, Chalmers' hard problem will evaporate. The hypothetical concept of qualia, pure mental experience, detached from any information-processing role, will be viewed as a peculiar idea of the prescientific era, much like vitalism... [Just as science dispatched vitalism] the science of consciousness will keep eating away at the hard problem of consciousness until it vanishes.\n"}
{"id": "6046600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6046600", "title": "Henri Gouhier", "text": "Henri Gouhier\n\nHenri Gouhier (; 5 December 1898 – 31 March 1994) was a French philosopher, a historian of philosophy, and a literary critic.\n\nBorn in Auxerre, Yonne, Gouhier's studies led to a doctorate in 1926. He served as the Professor of philosophy at a \"lycée\" in Troyes from 1925 to 1928. Then he taught at the Faculty of Arts at the University of Lille between 1929 and 1940; subsequently, he taught at the University of Bordeaux during 1940 and 1941.\n\nGouhier was a Professor at the Sorbonne for twenty-seven years from 1941 to 1968. In 1979 he was elected to the Académie française and in 1988 was awarded the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca.\n\nGouhier supervised the undergraduate dissertation of famed sociologist Pierre Bourdieu, a translation of and commentary on Leibniz's \"Animadversions\".\n\nHe died in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "165834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165834", "title": "Ijtihad", "text": "Ijtihad\n\nIjtihad ( \"\", ; lit. physical or mental \"effort\", expended in a particular activity) \nis an Islamic legal term referring to independent reasoning \nor the thorough exertion of a jurist's mental faculty in finding a solution to a legal question. It is contrasted with \"taqlid\" (imitation, conformity to legal precedent). According to classical Sunni theory, \"ijtihad\" requires expertise in the Arabic language, theology, revealed texts, and principles of jurisprudence (\"usul al-fiqh\"), \nand is not employed where authentic and authoritative texts (Qur'an and Hadith) are considered unambiguous with regard to the question, or where there is an existing scholarly consensus (\"ijma\"). Ijtihad is considered to be a religious duty for those qualified to perform it. An Islamic scholar who is qualified to perform \"ijtihad\" is called a \"mujtahid\".\n\nBy the beginning of the 10th century, development of Sunni jurisprudence prompted leading Sunni jurists to state that the main legal questions had been addressed and the scope of \"ijtihad\" was gradually restricted. In the modern era, this gave rise to a perception among Western scholars and lay Muslim public that the so-called \"gate of \"ijtihad\"\" was closed at the start of the classical era. While recent scholarship has disproved this notion, the extent and mechanisms of legal change in the post-formative period remain a subject of debate.\n\nStarting from the 18th century, some Muslim reformers began calling for abandonment of \"taqlid\" and emphasis on \"ijtihad\", which they saw as a return to Islamic origins. Public debates in the Muslim world surrounding \"ijtihad\" continue to the present day. The advocacy of \"ijtihad\" has been particularly associated with Islamic modernists and purist Salafi thinkers. Among contemporary Muslims in the West there have emerged new visions of \"ijtihad\" which emphasize substantive moral values over traditional juridical methodology.\n\nShia jurists did not use the term \"ijtihad\" until the 12th century, but they employed a rational mode of legal reasoning from the early period, and its scope was not narrowed as in the Sunni tradition, with the exception of Zaydi jurisprudence.\n\nThe word derives from the three-letter Arabic verbal root of \"-H-D\" (\"\", 'struggle'): the \"t\" is inserted because the word is a derived stem VIII verb. In its literal meaning, the word refers to effort, physical or mental, expended in a particular activity. In its technical sense, \"ijtihad\" can be defined as a \"process of legal reasoning and hermeneutics through which the jurist-mujtahid derives or rationalizes law on the basis of the Qur'an and the Sunna\".\n\nThe juristic meaning of ijtihād has several definitions according to scholars of Islamic legal theory. Some define it as the jurist’s action and activity to reach a solution. Al-Ghazālī (d. 505/1111) defines it as the “total expenditure of effort made by a jurist for the purpose of obtaining the religious rulings.” Similarly the ijtihād is defined as “the effort made by the mujtahid in seeking knowledge of the \"aḥkām\" (rulings) of the sharī‘ah (Islamic canonical law) through interpretation.”\n\nFrom this point of view that ijtihād essentially consists of an inference (\"istinbāṭ\") that extents to a probability (\"ẓann\"). Thus it excludes the extraction of a ruling from a clear text as well as rulings made without recourse to independent legal reasoning. A knowledgeable person who gives a ruling on the sharī‘ah, but is not able to exercise their judgement in the inference of the rulings from the sources, is not called a mujtahid but rather a \"muqallid\".\n\nIslamic scholar Asghar Ali Engineer cites a hadith related by a sahabi (companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad) by the name of Muadh ibn Jabal (also Ma’adh bin Jabal), as the basis for ijtihad. According to the hadith from \"Sunan Abu-Dawud\", Book 24, Muadh was appointed by Muhammad to go to Yemen. Before leaving he was asked how he would judge when the occasion of deciding a case arose.\nMa’adh said, according to the Quran. The Prophet thereupon asked what he would do if he did not find the solution to the problem in the Quran, to which Ma’adh said he would govern according to the Sunnah. But when the Prophet asked if he could not find it in the Sunnah also, Ma’adh said \"ana ajtahidu\" (I will exert myself to find the solution). The Prophet thereupon patted his back and told him he was right.\n\nDuring the early period, \"ijtihad\" referred to the exercise of one's discretionary opinion (\"ra'y\") on the basis of the knowledge of the precedent (\"‘ilm\"). Jurists used \"ra'y\" to help reach legal rulings, in cases where the Qur'an and Sunna did not provide clear direction for certain decisions. It was the duty of the educated jurists to come to a ruling that would be in the best interest of the Muslim community and promote the public good.\n\nAs religious law continued to develop over time, \"ra'y\" became insufficient in making sure that fair legal rulings were being derived in keeping with both the Qur'an and Sunna. However, during this time, the meaning and process of \"ijtihad\" became more clearly constructed. \"Ijtihad\" was \"limited to a systematic method of interpreting the law on the basis of authoritative texts, the Quran and Sunna,\" and the rulings could be \"extended to a new problem as long as the precedent and the new situation shared the same clause.\"\n\nAs the practice of \"ijtihad\" transformed over time, it became religious duty of a \"mujtahid\" to conduct legal rulings for the Muslim society. \"Mujtahid\" is defined as a Muslim scholar that has met certain requirements including a strong knowledge of the Qur'an, Sunna, and Arabic, as well as a deep understanding of legal theory and the precedent; all of which allows them to be considered fully qualified to practice \"ijtihad\".\n\nAround the beginning of the 10th century, most Sunni jurists argued that all major matters of religious law had been settled, allowing for \"taqlid\" (تقليد), \"the established legal precedents and traditions,\" to take priority over \"ijtihād\" (اجتهاد). This move away from the practice of \"ijtihād\" was made by the Hanafī and Malikī law schools, and the majority of Shafīʿis, but not by Hanbalīs or a number of prominent Shafīʿi jurists who believed that \"true consensus\" (\"ijmāʿ\" اجماع), apart from that of Muhammad's Companions, did not exist\" and that \"the constant continuous existence of \"mujtahids\" (مجتهد) was a theological requirement.\" After the 11th century, Sunni legal theory developed systems for ranking jurists according to their qualifications for \"ijtihad\". One such ranking placed the founders of \"maddhab\"s, who were credited with being \"absolute \"mujtahid\"s\" (\"mujtahid muṭlaq\") capable of methodological innovation, at the top, and jurists capable only of \"taqlīd\" at the bottom, with \"mujtahid\"s and those who combined \"ijtihād\" and \"taqlīd\" given the middle ranks. In the 11th century, jurists required a \"mufti\" (jurisconsult) to be a \"mujtahid\"; by the middle of the 13th century, however, most scholars considered a \"muqallid\" (practitioner of \"taqlīd\") to be qualified for the role. During that era some jurists began to ponder whether practitioners of \"ijtihad\" continued to exist and the phrase \"closing of the gate of \"ijtihād\"\" (إغلاق باب الاجتهاد \"iġlāq bāb al-ijtihād\") appeared after the 16th century. \n\nThe settling of Sunni law and increasing prominence of \"taqlid\" has at one point led most Western scholars to believe that the \"gate of \"ijtihad\"\" was in fact effectively closed around 900 C.E. In a 1964 monograph, which exercised considerable influence on later scholars, Joseph Schacht wrote that \"a consensus gradually established itself to the effect that from that time onwards no one could be deemed to have the necessary qualifications for independent reasoning in religious law, and that all future activity would have to be confined to the explanation, application, and, at the most, interpretation of the doctrine as it had been laid down once and for all.\" \n\nWhile more recent research has disproved the notion that the practice of \"ijtihad\" was abandoned in the 10th century — or even later — the extent of legal change during this period and its mechanisms remain a subject of scholarly debate.\n\nShi'i Muslims recognized \"human reasoning and intellect as a legal source that supplements the Quran and other revealed texts,\" thus continuing to acknowledge the importance of \"ijtihad\".\n\nDuring the turn of the 16th to 17th century, Sunni Muslim reformers began to criticize taqlid, and promoted greater use of \"ijtihad\" in legal matters. They claimed that instead of looking solely to previous generations for practices developed by religious scholars, there should be an established doctrine and rule of behavior through the interpretation of original foundational texts of Islam—the Qur'an and Sunna.\n\nStarting in the middle of the 19th century, Islamic modernists such as Sir Sayyid Ahmed Khan, Jamal al-din Al-Afghani, and Muhammad Abduh emerged seeking to revitalize Islam by re-establish and reform Islamic law and its interpretations to accommodate Islam with modern society. They emphasized the use of \"ijtihad\", but in contrast to its original use, they sought to \"apply contemporary intellectual methods\" such as academic or scientific thought \"to the task of reforming Islam\". Al-Afghani proposed the new use of \"ijtihad\" that he believed would enable Muslims to think critically and apply their own individual interpretations of the innovations of modernity in the context of Islam.\n\nOne modernist argument for applying ijtihad to sharia law is that while \"the principles and values underlying Sharia (i.e. \"usul al-fiqh\")\" are unalterable, human interpretation of sharia is not. Another, (made by Asghar Ali Engineer of India), is that the \"adaat\" (customs and traditions) of Arabs were used in the development of the sharia, and form an important part of it. They are very much not divine or immutable, and have no more legal justification to be part of the sharia than the \"adaat\" of Muslims living beyond the home of the original Muslim in the Arab Hejaz. The\nummah was no longer a homogenous group but various cultural communities with their own age-old customs and traditions. ... When Imam Al-Shafi‘i moved from Hejaz to Egypt, which was a confluence of Arab and Coptic cultures, he realised this and changed his position on several issues. In Indonesia, following considerable debate among the ulema, Indonesian \"adaat\" \"become part of Sharia as applicable in that country\". This use of ijtihad to apply \"adaat\" applies to \"mu’amalat\" (socio-economic matters such as marriage, divorce, inheritance), rather than \"Ibadah\" fiqh (ritual salat, sawm, zakat, etc.). Asghar Ali Engineer argues that while the Arab \"adaat\" the Quran was revealed in was \"highly patriarchal\" and still informs what is understood as sharia, the \"transcendental Quranic vision\" is for \"absolutely equal rights\" between genders and should guide ijtihad of sharia.\n\nContemporary Salafis are major proponents of \"ijtihad\". They criticize \"taqlid\" and believe \"ijtihad\" makes modern Islam more authentic and will guide Muslims back to the Golden Age of early Islam. Salafis assert that reliance on \"taqlid\" has led to Islam's decline.\n\nThe Muslim Brotherhood traces its founding philosophies to al-Afghani's \"ijtihad\". The Muslim Brotherhood holds that the practice of \"ijtihad\" will strengthen the faith of believers by compelling them to better familiarize themselves with the Quran and come to their own conclusions about its teachings. But as a political group the Muslim Brotherhood faces a major paradox between \"ijtihad\" as a religious matter and as a political one. \"Ijtihad\" weakens political unity and promotes pluralism, (which is also why many oppressive regimes reject \"ijtihad\"s legitimacy).\n\nThe Iranian Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini envisioned a prominent role for \"ijtihad\" in his political theory of \"\" (\"vilāyat-e faqīh\").\n\nOsama Bin Laden supported \"ijtihad\". He criticized the Saudi regime for disallowing the \"free believer\" and imposing harsh restrictions on successful practice of Islam. Thus, Bin Laden believed his striving for the implementation of \"ijtihad\" was his \"duty\" (\"takleef\").\n\nA \"mujtahid\" (, \"diligent\") is an individual who is qualified to exercise \"ijtihad\" in the evaluation of Islamic law. The female equivalent is a \"mujtahida\". In general \"mujtahids\" must have an extensive knowledge of Arabic, the Qur'an, the Sunnah, and legal theory (Usul al-fiqh). Sunni Islam and Shi'i Islam, due to their divergent beliefs regarding the persistence of divine authority, have different views on \"ijtihad\" and the qualifications required to achieve \"mujtahid\". In order to clarify how \"ijtihad\" differs in Sunni and Shi'i Islam it is necessary to explore the historical development of this position in both branches.\n\nIn the years immediately following the Mohammed's death, Sunni Muslims practiced \"ijtihad\" because they saw it as an acceptable form of the continuation of sacred instruction. Sunni Muslims, therefore began to practice \"ijtihad\" primarily through the use of personal opinion, or ra'y. As Muslims turned to the Quran and Sunnah to solve their legal issues, they began to recognize that these divine proponents did not deal adequately with certain topics of law. Therefore, Sunni Muslims began to find other ways and sources for \"ijtihad\" such as \"ra'y\", which allowed for personal judgment of Islamic law. Sunni Muslims justified this practice of \"ra'y\" with a particular hadith, which cites Muhammad's approval of forming an individual sound legal opinion if the Qur'an and Sunnah contain no explicit text regarding that particular issue. Therefore, during the first two and a half centuries of Islam there were no restrictions placed on scholars interested in practicing \"ijtihad\". Beginning in the 9th century, jurists began to make more restrictions on who could practice \"ijtihad\" and the kinds of qualifications necessary. Therefore, the practice of \"ijtihad\" became limited to a qualified scholar and jurist otherwise known as a \"mujtahid\". Abu'l-Husayn al-Basri provides the earliest and most expansive outline for the qualifications of a \"mujtahid\", they include:\n\nFrom the declaration of these requirements of \"mujtahid\" onwards, legal scholars adopted these characteristics as being standard for anyone looking to practice \"ijtihad\". In order for the reasoning of these \"mujtahids\" to be accepted as law multiple \"mujtahids\" had to reach \"ijma\". This allowed for \"mujtahids\" to openly discuss their particular views and reach a conclusion together. The interaction required by \"ijma\" allowed for \"mujtahids\" to circulate ideas and eventually merge to create particular Islamic schools of law (\"madhhabs\"). This consolidation of \"mujtahids\" into particular \"madhhabs\" prompted these groups to create their own distinct authoritative rules. These laws reduced issues of legal uncertainty that had been present when multiple \"mujtahids\" were working together with one another. However, with this introduction of common laws for each \"madhhab\", legal scholars began to dismiss the practice of independent \"ijtihad\" and instead maintained the title of \"mujtahid\" only for the founders of the four main schools of Islamic law (\"Hanafiyya, Malikiyya, Shafiyya, Hanbaliyya\"). Therefore, from the 12th century onwards jurists could occupy the position of a \"mujtahid\" or access \"ijtihad\" in only two cases, when distinguishing between the manifest and the obscure views of their particular schools or when they served as \"imitators\" of \"mujtahids\", expressing the views of the more qualified \"mujtahids\" before them. Therefore, the practice of \"ijtihad\" was restricted in favor of taqlid. These Sunni restrictions on the power of the \"mujtahid\" and were due to historical developments and should not be accepted as terms of the original legal theory of \"ijtihad\".\n\nThe Shi'a Muslims understand the process of \"ijtihad\" as being the independent effort used to arrive at the rulings of sharia. Following the death of the Prophet and once they had determined the Imam as absent, \"ijtihad\" evolved into a practice of applying careful reason in order to uncover the knowledge of what \"Imams\" would have done in particular legal situations. The decisions the \"Imams\" would have made were explored through the application of the Qur'an, Sunnah, \"ijma\" and \"'aql\" (reason). It was not until the end of the eighteenth century that the title of \"mujtahid\" became associated with the term \"faqih\" or one who is an expert in jurisprudence. From this point on religious courts began to increase in number and the ulama were transformed by Shi'i Islamic authorities into the new producer of \"ijtihad\". In order to produce perceptive \"mujtahids\" that could fulfill this important role, principles of Shi'i jurisprudence were developed to provide a foundation for scholarly deduction of Islamic law. Shaykh Murtada Ansari and his successors developed the school of Shi'i law, dividing the legal decisions into four categories of certainty (\"qat\"), valid conjecture (\"zann\"), doubt (\"shakk\"), and erroneous conjecture (\"wahm\"). These rules allowed \"mujtahids\" to issue adjudications on any subject, that could be derived through this process of \"ijtihad\", demonstrating their great responsibility to the Shi'i community Furthermore, according to Shi'i Islamic Jurisprudence a believer of Islam is either a \"Mujtahid\" (one that expresses their own legal reasoning), or a \"Muqallid\" (one performing Taqlid of a Mujtahid) and a \"Muhtat\" (one who acts with precaution). Most Shi'i Muslims qualify as \"Muqallid\", and therefore are very dependent on the rulings of the \"Mujtahids\". Therefore, the \"Mujtahids\" must be well prepared to perform \"ijtihad\", as the community of \"Muqallid\" are dependent on their rulings. Not only did Shi'i Muslims require:\n\nHowever, these scholars also depended on further training that could be received in religious centers called Hawza. At these centers they are taught the important subjects and technical knowledge a \"mujtahid\" need be proficient in such as:\n\nTherefore, Shi'i \"mujtahids\" remain revered throughout the Shi'i Islamic world. The relationship between the \"mujtahids\" and \"muqallids\" continues to address and solve the contemporary legal issues. Participating in ijtihad, however, has been cautioned by scholars for those not properly educated in interpretation of the Qu'ran. This is narrated by Ali ibn Husayn Zayn al-Abidin, the great grandson of Muhammad, when he cautioned Aban ibn abi-Ayyash, a companion of the Imam, saying, \"Oh brother form 'Abd Qays, if the issue becomes clear to you, then accept it. Otherwise remain silent and defer to Allah because your interpretation from the truth will be as far from the Earth as the sky.\"\n\nA woman can be a \"mujtahid\" and there are dozens who have attained the rank in the modern history of Iran (for instance, Amina Bint al-Majlisi in the Safavid era, Bibi Khanum in the Qajar era, Lady Amin in the Pahlavi era, and Zohreh Sefati during the time of the Islamic Republic). There are diverging opinions as to whether a female \"mujtahid\" can be a marjaʻ or not. Zohreh Sefati and some male jurists believe a female \"mujtahida\" can become a \"marjaʻ\", -in other words, they believe that believers perform \"taqlid\" (emulation) of a female mujtahid- but many male jurists believe a \"marjaʻ\" must be male.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56740404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56740404", "title": "Im Che", "text": "Im Che\n\nIm Che (; 1549 – 1587) was a literate Confucianist Yangban in Joseon.\n\nIm penned the following sijo upon the death of famed gisaeng, Hwang Jini.\n\nThe following two poems were exchanged between Im Che and his lover, gisaeng Hanu (한우; 寒雨). Im was known for his liaisons with Hanu and Hwang Jin Yi. The term in line 3, ch’an bi (찬비), literally translates as “freezing rain.” It uses the same Chinese characters as the poetess’ name (寒雨), but with a different pronunciation, and was intended by both poets as a pun. \nHanu’s particular gift is to echo the style of the original that Im wrote to her, while improving on it with a teasing, very human tone. The translation employs a formal tone to match Im’s original; and then follows with the simpler and more lyric style used by Hanu. In both cases, the line “rain has frozen” seemed to best communicate the double entendre of the originals.\n\nWhen about to die, he grieved and left the words below.\n\nKō Bun'yū introduce this line as Im Che’s indignation because in the history, this is not only barbarians outside of the Great Wall, but even Tibetans from southwest conquered Chinese world once, or occupied the capital and threatened the city, however only Korea never even became a threaten to China. What Korea do is to treat Great China with the utmost courtesy and show loyalty to father.\n"}
{"id": "1345173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1345173", "title": "In Our Time (radio series)", "text": "In Our Time (radio series)\n\nIn Our Time is a live BBC radio discussion series exploring the history of ideas, presented by Melvyn Bragg since 15 October 1998. It is one of BBC Radio 4's most successful discussion programmes, acknowledged to have \"transformed the landscape for serious ideas at peak listening time\". As of 21 June 2018, 808 episodes have been aired\nand the series attracts a weekly audience exceeding two million listeners.\n\nThe series, devised and produced by Olivia Seligman (with others) and currently produced by Simon Tillotson with Victoria Brignell, runs weekly throughout the year on BBC Radio 4, except for a summer break of approximately eight to ten weeks between July and September. Each programme covers a specific historical, philosophical, religious, cultural or scientific topic. In a November 2009 interview, Bragg described how he prepares for each show: \"It's not easy, but I like reading. I enjoy what was called swotting in my day. I get the notes late Friday afternoon for the following Thursday morning. I find all the spare time I can for reading, get up very early on a Thursday morning, have a final two hours of nervousness, and away we go.\"\n\nBragg hosts discussion of the week's subject featuring what he has characterised as \"three absolutely top-class academics\" on the subject. The programme is normally broadcast live and unedited on Thursday mornings at 9am, lasting around 42 minutes, and is then available online. He begins each episode with a short summary of the week's topic, then introduces the three guests. He guides the discussion along a generally chronological route, then either concludes the programme himself or invites summation remarks from one of the specialists.\n\n\"In Our Time\" was conceived for Bragg in 1998 after he was forced to quit his decade-long role as presenter for \"Start the Week\" due to a perceived conflict of interest arising from his appointment as a Labour life peer. He was offered the Thursday \"death-slot\" and decided he would \"do what [he] always wanted to do,\" and \"hastily battered out a simple idea\" with producer Olivia Seligman expecting the show would only last a few months. By September 1999, he had taken a time slot that was previously attracting an audience of 600,000 and grown it to 1.5 million. By 2000, the half-hour show was expanded to 45 minutes and to include three guest speakers. \n\nIn 2004, the programme was made available as a podcast from the BBC website and iTunes for one week after broadcast. Until July 2014, listeners could also sign up for weekly email newsletters from Bragg, where he mentioned any additional information relating to the programme, along with snippets from his own personal and intellectual life. In 2009, selected transcripts of episodes from the programme were compiled in the book \"In Our Time: A Companion to the Radio 4 series\", edited by Bragg. Since 2010, every episode of the programme has been available from its website as streaming audio, making it one of the first BBC programmes to have its entire archive released. Since 2011, the entire archive has been available to download as individual podcasts.\n\nThe programme is considered one of the BBC's most successful projects, acknowledged to have \"transformed the landscape for serious ideas at peak listening time\". Frequent contributors to the programme since 1998 include A. C. Grayling, Angie Hobbs, Ian Stewart, Simon Schaffer, Martin Palmer, John Mullan, Steve Jones and Carolin Crawford.\n\nIn 2005, listeners were invited to vote in a popularity contest for the \"greatest philosopher in history\" with the winner selected as the subject of the final programme before the summer break. With 30,000 votes cast, the contest was won by Karl Marx with 27.9% of the votes. Other shortlisted figures were David Hume (12.7%), Ludwig Wittgenstein (6.8%), Friedrich Nietzsche (6.5%), Plato (5.6%), Immanuel Kant (5.6%), Thomas Aquinas (4.8%), Socrates (4.8%), Aristotle (4.5%) and Karl Popper (4.2%). The poll was controversial but led to widespread reporting, and a boost in the programme's overall listenership, as various UK celebrities and news outlets championed their favourites.\n\n"}
{"id": "21160274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21160274", "title": "Inez Fung", "text": "Inez Fung\n\nInez Fung (; born April 11, 1949) is a professor of atmospheric science at the University of California, Berkeley jointly appointed in the Department of Earth and Planetary Science and the Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management. She is also the co-director of the Berkeley Institute of the Environment.\n\nShe is member of the National Academy of Sciences and a fellow in both the American Geophysical Union and the American Meteorological Society.\n\nInez Fung was born and grew up in Hong Kong, she graduated from King's College, Hong Kong, in 1967. After graduating, she traveled to the United States and enrolled in Utica College in New York. Fung transferred to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, receiving her Bachelor of Science in applied mathematics in 1971. Studying under Jule Gregory Charney at MIT, she wrote her doctoral thesis on the “organization of spiral rainbands in a hurricane,” for which she won the Rossby Award for outstanding thesis of the year.\nShe received her Sc.D. in 1977, becoming only the second woman to graduate from MIT with a doctorate degree in Meteorology.\n\nShe joined the National Academy of Sciences in 1977, working as a research associate until 1979 before she joined the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University, a position Fung held until 1986 when she was promoted to the position of Adjunct Associate Research Scientist at the Observatory. In 1986 she was also hired as a Physical Scientist for the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center's Goddard Institute for Space Studies. That same year she began to serve as a member of the National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council Climate Research Committee until 1989. She served as the associate editor of the Journal of Climate from 1988 to 1989 and as the full-time editor of the Journal from 1996 to 1998. In the spring of 1988, Fung was a visiting Associate Professor at the Institute of Environmental Studies at the University of Washington, and was the Adjunct Professor, Division of Applied Mathematics, Department of Applied Physics at Columbia from 1989 to 1993. Fung was promoted to the role of Adjunct Senior Scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia and joined the University of Victoria in Canada, working as a professor in the School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, in 1993. In 1998, Fung left the University of Victoria, Columbia and the NASA Goddard Center, joining the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nSince then she has done extensive work on climate modeling, biogeochemical cycles, and climate change. During the last decade, she was a contributing author to both the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Third and Fourth Assessment reports.\n\nIn 2006, she joined with 17 other climate scientists to file an amicus curiae brief in Massachusetts v. EPA to support the need for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nFung lives in Berkeley, California and is married to Oceanographer Jim Bishop, a professor at the University of California-Berkeley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34590724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34590724", "title": "Intelligent design and science", "text": "Intelligent design and science\n\nThe relationship between intelligent design and science has been a contentious one. Intelligent design (ID) is presented by its proponents as science and claims to offer an alternative to evolution. The Discovery Institute, a politically conservative think tank and the leading proponent of intelligent design, launched a campaign entitled \"Teach the Controversy\" which claims that a controversy exists within the scientific community over evolution. The scientific community, however, rejects intelligent design as a form of creationism. The basic facts of evolution are not a matter of controversy in science.\n\nThe intelligent design movement states that there is a debate among scientists about whether life evolved. The movement stresses the importance of recognizing the existence of this supposed debate, seeking to convince the public, politicians, and cultural leaders that schools should \"Teach the Controversy\". In fact, there is no such controversy in the scientific community; the scientific consensus is that life evolved. Intelligent design is widely viewed as a stalking horse for its proponents' campaign against what they say is the materialist foundation of science, which they argue leaves no room for the possibility of God.\n\nAdvocates of intelligent design seek to keep God and the Bible out of the discussion, and present intelligent design in the language of science as though it were a scientific hypothesis. However, among a significant proportion of the general public in the United States the major concern is whether conventional evolutionary biology is compatible with belief in God and in the Bible, and how this issue is taught in schools. The public controversy was given widespread media coverage in the United States, particularly during the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\" trial in late 2005 and after President George W. Bush expressed support for the idea of teaching intelligent design alongside evolution in August 2005. In response to Bush's statement and the pending federal trial, \"Time\" magazine ran an eight-page cover story on the Evolution Wars in which they examined the issue of teaching intelligent design in the classroom. The cover of the magazine featured a parody of The Creation of Adam from the Sistine Chapel. Rather than pointing at Adam, Michelangelo's God points at the image of a chimpanzee contemplating the caption reading \"The push to teach 'intelligent design' raises a question: Does God have a place in science class?\". In the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\" case, the court ruled that intelligent design was a religious and creationist position, finding that God and intelligent design were both distinct from the material that should be covered in a science class.\n\nEmpirical science uses the scientific method to create \"a posteriori\" knowledge based on observation and repeated testing of hypotheses and theories. Intelligent design proponents seek to change this fundamental basis of science by eliminating \"methodological naturalism\" from science and replacing it with what the leader of the intelligent design movement, Phillip E. Johnson, calls \"theistic realism\". Some have called this approach \"methodological supernaturalism\", which means belief in a transcendent, nonnatural dimension of reality inhabited by a transcendent, nonnatural deity. Intelligent design proponents argue that naturalistic explanations fail to explain certain phenomena and that supernatural explanations provide a very simple and intuitive explanation for the origins of life and the universe. Proponents say evidence exists in the forms of irreducible complexity and specified complexity that cannot be explained by natural processes. They also hold that religious neutrality requires the teaching of both evolution and intelligent design in schools, saying that teaching only evolution unfairly discriminates against those holding creationist beliefs. Teaching both, they argue, allows for the possibility of religious belief, without causing the state to actually promote such beliefs. Many intelligent design followers believe that \"Scientism\" is itself a religion that promotes secularism and materialism in an attempt to erase theism from public life, and they view their work in the promotion of intelligent design as a way to return religion to a central role in education and other public spheres. Some allege that this larger debate is often the subtext for arguments made over intelligent design, though others note that intelligent design serves as an effective proxy for the religious beliefs of prominent intelligent design proponents in their efforts to advance their religious point of view within society.\n\nIt has been argued that methodological naturalism is not an \"assumption\" of science, but a \"result\" of science well done: the God explanation is the least parsimonious, so according to Occam's razor, it cannot be a scientific explanation.\n\nIntelligent design has not presented a credible scientific case, substituting public support for scientific research. If the argument to give \"equal time for all theories\" were actually practiced, there would be no logical limit to the number of mutually incompatible supernatural \"theories\" regarding the origins and diversity of life to be taught in the public school system, including intelligent design parodies such as the Flying Spaghetti Monster \"theory\"; intelligent design does not provide a mechanism for discriminating among them. Philosopher of biology Elliott Sober, for example, states that intelligent design is not falsifiable because \"[d]efenders of ID always have a way out\". Intelligent design proponent Michael Behe concedes \"You can't prove intelligent design by experiment\".\n\nThe inference that an intelligent designer created life on Earth, which advocate William Dembski has said could alternately be an \"alien\" life force, has been compared to the \"a priori\" claim that aliens helped the ancient Egyptians build the pyramids. In both cases, the effect of this outside intelligence is not repeatable, observable or falsifiable, and it violates the principle of parsimony. From a strictly empirical standpoint, one may list what is known about Egyptian construction techniques, but one must admit ignorance about exactly how the Egyptians built the pyramids. \n\nSupporters of intelligent design have also reached out to other faith groups with similar accounts of creation with the hope that the broader coalition will have greater influence in supporting science education that does not contradict their religious views. Many religious bodies have responded by expressing support for evolution. The Roman Catholic Church has stated that religious faith is fully compatible with science, which is limited to dealing only with the natural world—a position described by the term \"theistic evolution\". While some in the Roman Catholic Church reject Intelligent design for various philosophical and theological reasons, others, such as Christoph Schönborn, Archbishop of Vienna, have shown support for it. The arguments of intelligent design have been directly challenged by the over 10,000 clergy who signed the Clergy Letter Project. Prominent scientists who strongly express religious faith, such as the astronomer George Coyne and the biologist Ken Miller, have been at the forefront of opposition to intelligent design. While creationist organizations have welcomed intelligent design's support against naturalism, they have also been critical of its refusal to identify the designer, and have pointed to previous failures of the same argument.\n\nRabbi Natan Slifkin directly criticized the advocates of intelligent design as presenting a perspective of God that is dangerous to religion. Those who promote it as parallel to religion, he asserts, do not truly understand it. Slifkin criticizes intelligent design's advocacy of teaching their perspective in biology classes, wondering why no one claims that God's hand should be taught in other secular classes, such as history, physics or geology. Slifkin also asserts that the intelligent design movement is inordinately concerned with portraying God as \"in control\" when it comes to things that cannot be easily explained by science, but not in control in respect to things which \"can\" be explained by scientific theory. Kenneth Miller expressed a view similar to Slifkin's: \"[T]he struggles of the Intelligent Design movement are best understood as clamorous and disappointing double failures—rejected by science because they do not fit the facts, and having failed religion because they think too little of God.\n\nScience is a systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the world. The boundaries between what is and what is not to be considered science, known as the demarcation problem, continues to be debated among philosophers of science and scientists in various fields.\n\nThe U.S. National Academy of Sciences has stated that \"creationism, intelligent design, and other claims of supernatural intervention in the origin of life or of species are not science because they are not testable by the methods of science.\"\nThe U.S. National Science Teachers Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have termed it pseudoscience.\nOthers in the scientific community have concurred,\nand some have called it junk science.\nFor a theory to qualify as scientific, it is expected to be:\n\n\nFor any theory, hypothesis or conjecture to be considered scientific, it must meet most, and ideally all, of these criteria. The fewer criteria are met, the less scientific it is; and if it meets only a few or none at all, then it cannot be treated as scientific in any meaningful sense of the word. Typical objections to defining intelligent design as science are that it lacks consistency, violates the principle of parsimony, is not scientifically useful, is not falsifiable, is not empirically testable, and is not correctable, dynamic, provisional or progressive.\n\nCritics also say that the intelligent design doctrine does not meet the Daubert Standard, the criteria for scientific evidence mandated by the US Supreme Court. The Daubert Standard governs which evidence can be considered scientific in United States federal courts and most state courts. Its four criteria are:\nIn \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", using these criteria and others mentioned above, Judge Jones \"... we have addressed the seminal question of whether ID is science. We have concluded that it is not, and moreover that ID cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents\".\n\nAt the Kitzmiller trial, philosopher Robert T. Pennock described a common approach to distinguishing science from non-science as examining a theory's compliance with methodological naturalism, the basic method in science of seeking natural explanations without assuming the existence or nonexistence of the supernatural. Intelligent design proponents criticize this method and argue that science, if its goal is to discover truth, must be able to accept evidentially supported, supernatural explanations. Additionally, philosopher of science Larry Laudan and cosmologist Sean Carroll argue against any \"a priori\" criteria for distinguishing science from pseudoscience. Laudan, as well as philosopher Barbara Forrest, state that the content of the hypothesis must first be examined to determine its ability to solve empirical problems. Methodological naturalism is therefore an \"a posteriori\" criterion due to its ability to yield consistent results.\n\nThe failure to follow the procedures of scientific discourse and the failure to submit work to the scientific community that withstands scrutiny have weighed against intelligent design being accepted as valid science. The intelligent design movement has not published a properly peer-reviewed article supporting ID in a scientific journal, and has failed to publish peer-reviewed research or data supporting ID.\n\nIntelligent design, by appealing to a supernatural agent, directly conflicts with the principles of science, which limit its inquiries to empirical, observable and ultimately testable data and which require explanations to be based on empirical evidence. Dembski, Behe and other intelligent design proponents say bias by the scientific community is to blame for the failure of their research to be published. Intelligent design proponents believe that their writings are rejected for not conforming to purely naturalistic, non-supernatural mechanisms rather than because their research is not up to \"journal standards\", and that the merit of their articles is overlooked. Some scientists describe this claim as a conspiracy theory. Michael Shermer has rebutted the claim, noting \"Anyone who thinks that scientists do not question Darwinism has never been to an evolutionary conference.\" He noted that scientists such as Joan Roughgarden and Lynn Margulis have challenged certain Darwinist theories and offered explanations of their own and despite this they \"have not been persecuted, shunned, fired or even expelled. Why? Because they are doing science, not religion.\" The issue that supernatural explanations do not conform to the scientific method became a sticking point for intelligent design proponents in the 1990s, and is addressed in the wedge strategy as an aspect of science that must be challenged before intelligent design can be accepted by the broader scientific community.\n\nCritics and advocates debate over whether intelligent design produces new research and has legitimately attempted to publish this research. For instance, the Templeton Foundation, a former funder of the Discovery Institute and a major supporter of projects seeking to reconcile science and religion, says that it asked intelligent design proponents to submit proposals for actual research, but none were ever submitted. Charles L. Harper Jr., foundation vice-president, said: \"From the point of view of rigor and intellectual seriousness, the intelligent design people don't come out very well in our world of scientific review\".\n\nThe only article published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal that made a case for intelligent design was quickly withdrawn by the publisher for having circumvented the journal's peer-review standards. Written by the Discovery Institute's Center for Science & Culture Director Stephen C. Meyer, it appeared in the peer-reviewed journal \"Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington\" in August 2004. The article was a literature review, which means that it did not present any new research, but rather culled quotations and claims from other papers to argue that the Cambrian explosion could not have happened by natural processes. The choice of venue for this article was also considered problematic, because it was so outside the normal subject matter (see Sternberg peer review controversy). Dembski has written that \"perhaps the best reason [to be skeptical of his ideas] is that intelligent design has yet to establish itself as a thriving scientific research program.\"\nIn a 2001 interview, Dembski said that he stopped submitting to peer-reviewed journals because of their slow time-to-print and that he makes more money from publishing books.\n\nIn the Dover trial, the judge found that intelligent design features no scientific research or testing. There, intelligent design proponents cited just one paper, on simulation modeling of evolution by Behe and David Snoke, which mentioned neither irreducible complexity nor intelligent design and which Behe admitted did not rule out known evolutionary mechanisms. Michael Lynch called the conclusions of the article \"an artifact of unwarranted biological assumptions, inappropriate mathematical modeling, and faulty logic\". In sworn testimony, however, Behe said: \"There are no peer reviewed articles by anyone advocating for intelligent design supported by pertinent experiments or calculations which provide detailed rigorous accounts of how intelligent design of any biological system occurred\". As summarized by the judge, Behe conceded that there are no peer-reviewed articles supporting his claims of intelligent design or irreducible complexity. In his ruling, the judge wrote: \"A final indicator of how ID has failed to demonstrate scientific warrant is the complete absence of peer-reviewed publications supporting the theory\".\n\nThe Discovery Institute has published lists of articles and books which they say support intelligent design and have been peer-reviewed, including the two articles mentioned above. Critics, largely members of the scientific community, reject this claim, stating that no established scientific journal has yet published an intelligent design article. Rather, intelligent design proponents have set up their own journals with peer review that lacks impartiality and rigor, consisting entirely of intelligent design supporters. Critics also state that even if these papers could be accepted as cases of support for intelligent design passing peer review, the output from the ID community is still fairly minuscule, especially when compared to the number of peer reviewed articles supporting evolution. Critics state that publishing material is not enough; that scientific ideas must withstand scrutiny and be built upon and that any papers supporting ID have not led to any productive work.\n\nThe phrase \"intelligent design\" makes use of an assumption of the quality of an observable intelligence, a concept that has no scientific consensus definition. William Dembski, for example, has written that \"Intelligence leaves behind a characteristic signature\". The characteristics of intelligence are assumed by intelligent design proponents to be observable without specifying what the criteria for the measurement of intelligence should be. Dembski, instead, asserts that \"in special sciences ranging from forensics to archaeology to SETI (the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence), appeal to a designing intelligence is indispensable\". How this appeal is made and what this implies as to the definition of intelligence are topics left largely unaddressed. Seth Shostak, a researcher with the SETI Institute, disputed Dembski's comparison of SETI and intelligent design, saying that intelligent design advocates base their inference of design on complexity—the argument being that some biological systems are too complex to have been made by natural processes—while SETI researchers are looking primarily for artificiality.\n\nCritics say that the design detection methods proposed by intelligent design proponents are radically different from conventional design detection, undermining the key elements that make it possible as legitimate science. Intelligent design proponents, they say, are proposing both searching for a designer without knowing anything about that designer's abilities, parameters, or intentions (which scientists do know when searching for the results of human intelligence), as well as denying the very distinction between natural/artificial design that allows scientists to compare complex designed artifacts against the background of the sorts of complexity found in nature.\n\nAs a means of criticism, certain skeptics have pointed to a challenge of intelligent design derived from the study of artificial intelligence. The criticism is a counter to intelligent design claims about what makes a design intelligent, specifically that \"no preprogrammed device can be truly intelligent, that intelligence is irreducible to natural processes\". This claim is similar in type to an assumption of Cartesian dualism that posits a strict separation between \"mind\" and the material Universe. However, in studies of artificial intelligence, while there is an implicit assumption that supposed \"intelligence\" or creativity of a computer program is determined by the capabilities given to it by the computer programmer, artificial intelligence need not be bound to an inflexible system of rules. Rather, if a computer program can access randomness as a function, this effectively allows for a flexible, creative, and adaptive intelligence. Evolutionary algorithms, a subfield of machine learning (itself a subfield of artificial intelligence), have been used to mathematically demonstrate that randomness and selection can be used to \"evolve\" complex, highly adapted structures that are not explicitly designed by a programmer. Evolutionary algorithms use the Darwinian metaphor of random mutation, selection and the survival of the fittest to solve diverse mathematical and scientific problems that are usually not solvable using conventional methods. Intelligence derived from randomness is essentially indistinguishable from the \"innate\" intelligence associated with biological organisms, and poses a challenge to the intelligent design conception that intelligence itself necessarily requires a designer. Cognitive science continues to investigate the nature of intelligence along these lines of inquiry. The intelligent design community, for the most part, relies on the assumption that intelligence is readily apparent as a fundamental and basic property of complex systems.\n"}
{"id": "15506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15506", "title": "Isidore of Seville", "text": "Isidore of Seville\n\nSaint Isidore of Seville (; ; c. 560 –  4 April 636), a scholar and, for over three decades, Archbishop of Seville, is widely regarded in the Catholic Church as the last of the Church Fathers, as the 19th-century historian Montalembert put it in an oft-quoted phrase, \"The last scholar of the ancient world.\" \n\nAt a time of disintegration of classical culture, and aristocratic violence and illiteracy, he was involved in the conversion of the Arian Visigothic kings to Catholicism, both assisting his brother Leander of Seville, and continuing after his brother's death. He was influential in the inner circle of Sisebut, Visigothic king of Hispania. Like Leander, he played a prominent role in the Councils of Toledo and Seville. The Visigothic legislation that resulted from these councils influenced the beginnings of representative government.\n\nHis fame after his death was based on his \"Etymologiae\", an etymological encyclopedia which assembled extracts of many books from classical antiquity that would have otherwise been lost.\n\nIsidore was probably born in Cartagena, Spain, a former Carthaginian colony, to Severianus and Theodora. Both Severianus and Theodora belonged to notable Hispano-Roman families of high social rank. His parents were members of an influential family who were instrumental in the political-religious maneuvering that converted the Visigothic kings from Arianism to Catholicism. The Catholic Church celebrates him and all his siblings as known saints:\n\n\nIsidore received his elementary education in the Cathedral school of Seville. In this institution, the first of its kind in Iberia, a body of learned men including Archbishop Saint Leander of Seville taught the trivium and quadrivium, the classic liberal arts. Saint Isidore applied himself to study diligently enough that he quickly mastered Latin, and acquired some Greek, and Hebrew.\n\nTwo centuries of Gothic control of Iberia incrementally suppressed the ancient institutions, classic learning, and manners of the Roman Empire. The associated culture entered a period of long-term decline. The ruling Visigoths nevertheless showed some respect for the outward trappings of Roman culture. Arianism meanwhile took deep root among the Visigoths as the form of Christianity that they received.\n\nScholars may debate whether Isidore ever personally embraced monastic life or affiliated with any religious order, but he undoubtedly esteemed the monks highly.\n\nAfter the death of Saint Leander of Seville on 13 March 600 or 601, Isidore succeeded to the See of Seville. On his elevation to the episcopate, he immediately constituted himself as protector of monks.\n\nSaint Isidore recognized that the spiritual and material welfare of the people of his See depended on assimilation of remnant Roman and ruling barbarian cultures, and consequently attempted to weld the peoples and subcultures of the Visigothic kingdom into a united nation. He used all available religious resources toward this end and succeeded. Isidore practically eradicated the heresy of Arianism and completely stifled the new heresy of Acephali at its very outset. Archbishop Isidore strengthened religious discipline throughout his See.\n\nArchbishop Isidore also used resources of education to counteract increasingly influential Gothic barbarism throughout his episcopal jurisdiction. His quickening spirit animated the educational movement centered on Seville. Saint Isidore introduced Aristotle to his countrymen long before the Arabs studied Greek philosophy extensively.\n\nIn 619, Saint Isidore of Seville pronounced anathema against any ecclesiastic who in any way should molest the monasteries.\n\nSaint Isidore presided over the Second Council of Seville, begun on 13 November 619, in the reign of King Sisebut, a provincial council attended by eight other bishops, all from the ecclesiastical province of Baetica in southern Spain. The Acts of the Council fully set forth the nature of Christ, countering the conceptions of Gregory, a Syrian representing the heretical Acephali.\n\nBased on a few surviving canons found in the Pseudo-Isidorian Decretals, Saint Isidore is known to have presided over an additional provincial council around 624.\n\nThe council dealt with a conflict over the See of Écija, and wrongfully stripped bishop Martianus of his see, a situation that was rectified by the Fourth Council of Toledo. It also addressed a concern over Jews who had been forced to convert to Christianity by Sisebut failing to present their children for baptism.\n\nThe records of the council, unlike the First and Second Councils of Seville were not preserved in the Hispana, a collection of canons and decretals likely edited by Saint Isidore himself.\n\nAll bishops of Hispania attended the Fourth National Council of Toledo, begun on 5 December 633. The aged Archbishop Saint Isidore presided over its deliberations and originated most enactments of the council.\n\nThrough Isidore's influence, this Council of Toledo promulgated a decree, commanding all bishops to establish seminaries in their cathedral cities along the lines of the cathedral school at Seville, which had educated Saint Isidore decades earlier. The decree prescribed the study of Greek, Hebrew, and the liberal arts and encouraged interest in law and medicine. The authority of the Council made this education policy obligatory upon all bishops of the Kingdom of the Visigoths. The council granted remarkable position and deference to the king of the Visigoths. The independent Church bound itself in allegiance to the acknowledged king; it said nothing of allegiance to the Bishop of Rome.\n\nSaint Isidore of Seville died on 4 April 636 after serving more than 32 years as archbishop of Seville.\n\nIsidore's Latin style in the \"Etymologiae\" and elsewhere, though simple and lucid, reveals increasing local Visigothic traditions.\n\nIsidore was the first Christian writer to try to compile a \"summa\" of universal knowledge, in his most important work, the \"Etymologiae\" (taking its title from the method he uncritically used in the transcription of his era's knowledge). It is also known by classicists as the \"Origines\" (the standard abbreviation being \"Orig\"). This encyclopedia — the first such Christian epitome—formed a huge compilation of 448 chapters in 20 volumes.\n\nIn it, as Isidore entered his own terse digest of Roman handbooks, miscellanies and compendia, he continued the trend towards abridgements and summaries that had characterised Roman learning in Late Antiquity. In the process, many fragments of classical learning are preserved which otherwise would have been hopelessly lost; \"in fact, in the majority of his works, including the \"Origines\", he contributes little more than the mortar which connects excerpts from other authors, as if he was aware of his deficiencies and had more confidence in the \"stilus maiorum\" than his own\" his translator Katherine Nell MacFarlane remarks.\n\nSome of these fragments were lost in the first place because Isidore's work was so highly regarded—Braulio called it \"quaecunque fere sciri debentur\", \"practically everything that it is necessary to know\"— that it superseded the use of many individual works of the classics themselves, which were not recopied and have therefore been lost: \"all secular knowledge that was of use to the Christian scholar had been winnowed out and contained in one handy volume; the scholar need search no further\".\n\nThe fame of this work imparted a new impetus to encyclopedic writing, which bore abundant fruit in the subsequent centuries of the Middle Ages. It was the most popular compendium in medieval libraries. It was printed in at least ten editions between 1470 and 1530, showing Isidore's continued popularity in the Renaissance. Until the 12th century brought translations from Arabic sources, Isidore transmitted what western Europeans remembered of the works of Aristotle and other Greeks, although he understood only a limited amount of Greek. The \"Etymologiae\" was much copied, particularly into medieval bestiaries.\n\nIsidore's \"De fide catholica contra Iudaeos\" furthers Augustine of Hippo's ideas on the Jewish presence in Christian society. Like Augustine, Isidore accepted the necessity of the Jewish presence because of their expected role in the anticipated Second Coming of Christ. In \"De fide catholica contra Iudaeos\", Isidore exceeds the anti-rabbinic polemics of earlier theologians by criticizing Jewish practice as deliberately disingenuous.\n\nHe contributed two decisions to the Fourth Council of Toledo: Canon 60 calling for the forced removal of children from parents practicing Crypto-Judaism and their education by Christians and Canon 65 forbidding Jews and Christians of Jewish origin from holding public office.\n\nIsidore's other works, all in Latin, include:\n\nIsidore was one of the last of the ancient Christian philosophers; he was the last of the great Latin Church Fathers and was contemporary with Maximus the Confessor. Some consider him to be the most learned man of his age, and he exercised a far-reaching and immeasurable influence on the educational life of the Middle Ages. His contemporary and friend, Braulio of Zaragoza, regarded him as a man raised up by God to save the Iberian peoples from the tidal wave of barbarism that threatened to inundate the ancient civilization of Hispania.\n\nThe Eighth Council of Toledo (653) recorded its admiration of his character in these glowing terms: \"The extraordinary doctor, the latest ornament of the Catholic Church, the most learned man of the latter ages, always to be named with reverence, Isidore\". This tribute was endorsed by the Fifteenth Council of Toledo, held in 688 and later in 1598 by Pope Clement VIII. Isidore was declared a Doctor of the Church in 1722 by Pope Innocent XIII. \n\nIsidore was interred in Seville. His tomb represented an important place of veneration for the Mozarabs during the centuries after the Arab conquest of Visigothic Hispania. In the middle of the 11th century, with the division of Al Andalus into taifas and the strengthening of the Christian holdings in the Iberian peninsula, Ferdinand I of León and Castile found himself in a position to extract tribute from the fractured Arab states. In addition to money, Abbad II al-Mu'tadid, the Abbasid ruler of Seville (1042–1069), agreed to turn over St. Isidore's remains to Ferdinand I. A Catholic poet described al-Mutatid placing a brocaded cover over Isidore's sarcophagus, and remarked, \"Now you are leaving here, revered Isidore. You know well how much your fame was mine!\" Ferdinand had Isidore's remains reinterred in the then-recently constructed Basilica of San Isidoro in León. Today, many of his bones are buried in the cathedral of Murcia, Spain.\n\nIn Dante's \"Paradiso\" (X.130), Isidore is mentioned among theologians and Doctors of the Church alongside the Scot Richard of St. Victor and the Englishman Bede the Venerable.\n\nThe University of Dayton has named their implementation of the Sakai Project in honour of Saint Isidore.\n\nHis likeness, along with that of Leander of Sevile and Ferdinand III of Castile, are depicted on the crest badge of Sevilla FC.\n\nThe Order of St. Isidore of Seville is a chivalric order formed on January 1, 2000. An international organisation, the order aims to honour Saint Isidore as patron saint of the Internet, alongside promoting Christian chivalry online. Members, who may be men or women, receive a modern-day knighthood.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34935010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34935010", "title": "James Drever", "text": "James Drever\n\nProf James Drever FRSE LLD (1910–1991) was a Scottish academic who served as the first Principal of the University of Dundee. He has been described as 'one of the most pivotal figures in the University's history'.\n\nJames Drever was born to Orcadian parents in Edinburgh in 1910. His father was the academic James Drever (1873–1950), who had studied at the University of Edinburgh from 1889, from which he graduated with an MA before proceeding to study medicine. The elder Drever then worked at the University as assistant to the Professor of Education, before his appointment as Combe Lecturer and head of the Psychology Department at Edinburgh in 1918. James Drever was educated at the Royal High School of Edinburgh, University of Edinburgh and the University of Cambridge and would remain in academia for the rest of his working life aside from a period of service in the Royal Navy. From 1934 he taught Philosophy at Edinburgh, joining Newcastle University as a lecturer four years later. By this time he had an interest in Psychology and taught both subjects at Newcastle. In the Second World War he served in the Royal Navy.\n\nIn 1931 his father had been promoted at Edinburgh to become the first Professor of Psychology in Scotland. In 1944 the elder Drever retired, and it was his son who was chosen as his successor, but could not take the post until the end of the war. In addition to his responsibilities as a professor and head of department, the younger Drever also served as Dean of the Faculty of Arts at Edinburgh from 1958 until 1960 and was a visiting professor at Princeton University from 1954 until 1955.\n\nAlong with his father, and others, he was heavily involved in organising the 12th International Congress of Psychology, which met in Edinburgh in 1948. His father was elected president of the congress, but was unable to attend it due to ill health. Consequently, it was the younger Drever who delivered the presidential address his father had written on the theme of “Scottish psychology since Hume”.\n\nUnder James Drever's leadership from 1944 to 1966 the Psychology Department at Edinburgh increased in both size and stature and an \"Honours School\" in Psychology was fully established. In 1963 the department left the premises it had been in since it was set up in 1906 and moved to new accommodation at 60, The Pleasance. As had been the case under his father's stewardship, the department's teaching included 'a strong philosophical element'. During this period Drever established himself as a well known and highly respected Psychologist and served as President of the British Psychological Society.\n\nDrever had a strong interest in theories and practice of higher education and this led to his appointment to the Committee on Higher Education chaired by Lionel Robbins. Drever and Sir David Anderson, the former director of the Royal College of Science and Technology were the only Scottish members of the committee. Drever would later recall his work with the Committee included visiting the USSR where the committee was impressed with the detailed level of planning relating to education that was carried out. The resulting Robbins Report recommended the immediate expansion of university education in the United Kingdom. One result of this was the decision that Queen's College, Dundee, a part of the University of St. Andrews should become a university in its own right. Drever was an obvious candidate to lead this new institution and in 1966 was appointed as Master of Queen's College to oversee its transition in the University of Dundee. When the University was granted its charter the following year Drever formally became its principal and vice-chancellor. Drever's appointment marked the first time a psychologist had obtained such a post in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt has been argued that in his role as principal, Drever \"did much to establish the University of Dundee as a success\". The early years of the University's existence were difficult ones. Changes in government policy on higher education meant that the University was operating in an uncertain financial environment and cuts had to be made. At the same time there were episodes of student discontent and protest. These included a student 24 work-in led by George Robertson in 1968, student occupations of the University Tower Building in 1971 and 1974, a student rent strike in 1973 (which Drever initially seemed to not only support, but to encourage) and various smaller protests. Drever gave support to some of these protests and in 1969 actually encouraged students to oppose a planned visit to the University by Enoch Powell. Drever's stance on Powell attracted media attention, with the Glasgow Herald comparing his actions to that of a 'gamekeeper-turned-poacher'. While the aftermath of the 1973 rent strike, which saw the suspension of the Dundee University Students' Association's constitution by the University Court and threats to sue some of the strikers, caused some students to express a degree of ill-feeling towards Drever, others thought highly of him.\n\nDrever oversaw the University developing increasing links with Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art, with the art students receiving lectures at the University and the creation of a joint degree in Town Planning.\n\nWhile Principal of Dundee he served as Honorary President of the Abertay Historical Society.\n\nDrever retired as Principal in 1978 after 11 years in office, a period of service unmatched by any of his successors. His papers are now held by the University's Archive Services and the University's fine art collections include a portrait of Drever in his principal's robes painted by Alberto Morocco. The University holds, as an occasional event, a Drever Lecture in Psychology to commemorate him.\n"}
{"id": "39516609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39516609", "title": "Joaquim Clotet", "text": "Joaquim Clotet\n\nJoaquim Clotet Martí (Mataró, Spain, March 16, 1946) holds a doctorate in Philosophy and Letters, with outstanding work in the area of Ethics and Bioethics. Since 2004, he has been the President of the Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.\n\nBorn in the city of Mataró, a province of Barcelona in Spain, Joaquim Clotet graduated with a degree in English and Philosophy and Letters (1972) from the University of Barcelona (Spain), obtaining a doctorate in Philosophy and Letters from the same institution (1980).\n\nAfter his doctorate, he completed studies and research at the Gregorian University of Rome (Italy), the University of London (United Kingdom), Georgetown University (Washington D.C., USA), the University of Ottawa (Canada), Oxford University (United Kingdom) and the University of Warwick (Coventry, United Kingdom).\n\nAfter teaching for nine years in the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Barcelona, he moved to Porto Alegre in 1984, when he became a full professor at PUCRS. He also taught at UFRGS in the Graduate Program in Medicine – Medical Practice – in 1995 and 1996.\n\nFrom 1994 to 2004, he was the Senior Vice President of PUCRS, assuming the Presidency in December 2004. He was reappointed in 2008 and 2012. His administration has been highlighted by the increase of internationalization in all academic areas, and the incentive for research, entrepreneurship and innovation. In addition to being President, Clotet is Full Professor of Bioethics in the Master’s and Doctorate Programs of Medicine and Dentistry. He is a Visiting Professor at the University of Santiago de Compostela (Spain), the University of San Marcos (Peru), the National University of La Plata (Argentina) and the University of Buenos Aires (Argentina).\n\nHe was a member of the National Committee on Access and Use of the Human Genome, by the Ministry of Health, the National Committee for Ethics in Research, by the Ministry of Health (1997-2001) and President of the Riograndense Society of Bioethics (1999-2001).\n\nHe was also a member of the Hume Society, the Kennedy Institute of Ethics (USA), the Iberoamerican Society for Utilitarian Studies (Spain), the Hastings Center (USA) and the American Society of Law, Medicine and Ethics (USA).\n\nVisiting Fellow, Exeter College, University of Oxford, 2017.\n\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Edipucrs,2005\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Edipucrs,2003\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Nestlé,2002-contributor\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Edipucrs,2001-editor\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Edipucrs,2001-editor\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,Edipucrs,2000-contributor\n Porto Alegre,Brazil,PUCRS-Editora Acadêmica,1988-editor\n Barcelona,Spain,Daimon,1982-contributor\n Barcelona,Spain,Editorial Laia,1982-editor, introduction and comments\n Zaragoza,Spain,Edelvives,1978-contributor\n Zaragoza,Spain,1977-contributor\n\nClotet has also published a variety of articles in national and international scientific journals.\n\n2013\n\n2012\n\n2009\n\n2008\n\n2007\n\n1972\n"}
{"id": "93085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93085", "title": "Johann Heinrich Lambert", "text": "Johann Heinrich Lambert\n\nJohann Heinrich Lambert (, \"Jean-Henri Lambert\" in French; 26 August 1728 – 25 September 1777) was a Swiss polymath who made important contributions to the subjects of mathematics, physics (particularly optics), philosophy, astronomy and map projections.\nEdward Tufte calls him and William Playfair \"The two great inventors of modern graphical designs\" (\"Visual Display of Quantitative Information\", p. 32).\n\nLambert was born in 1728 into a Huguenot family in the city of Mulhouse (now in Alsace, France), at that time an exclave of Switzerland. Leaving school at 12, he continued to study in his free time whilst undertaking a series of jobs. These included assistant to his father (a tailor), a clerk at a nearby iron works, a private tutor, secretary to the editor of \"Basler Zeitung\" and, at the age of 20, private tutor to the sons of Count Salis in Chur. Travelling Europe with his charges (1756–1758) allowed him to meet established mathematicians in the German states, The Netherlands, France and the Italian states. On his return to Chur he published his first books (on optics and cosmology) and began to seek an academic post. After a few short posts he was rewarded (1763) by an invitation to a position at the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin, where he gained the sponsorship of Frederick II of Prussia, and became a friend of Euler. In this stimulating and financially stable environment, he worked prodigiously until his death in 1777.\n\nLambert was the first to introduce hyperbolic functions into trigonometry. Also, he made conjectures regarding non-Euclidean space. Lambert is credited with the first proof that π is irrational by using a generalized continued fraction for the function tan x. Euler believed the conjecture but could not prove that π was irrational, and it is speculated that Aryabhata also believed this, in 500 CE. Lambert also devised theorems regarding conic sections that made the calculation of the orbits of comets simpler.\n\nLambert devised a formula for the relationship between the angles and the area of hyperbolic triangles. These are triangles drawn on a concave surface, as on a saddle, instead of the usual flat Euclidean surface. Lambert showed that the angles added up to less than π (radians), or 180°. The amount of shortfall, called the defect, increases with the area. The larger the triangle's area, the smaller the sum of the angles and hence the larger the defect C△ = π — (α + β + γ). That is, the area of a hyperbolic triangle (multiplied by a constant C) is equal to π (in radians), or 180°, minus the sum of the angles α, β, and γ. Here C denotes, in the present sense, the negative of the curvature of the surface (taking the negative is necessary as the curvature of a saddle surface is defined to be negative in the first place). As the triangle gets larger or smaller, the angles change in a way that forbids the existence of similar hyperbolic triangles, as only triangles that have the same angles will have the same area. Hence, instead of expressing the area of the triangle in terms of the lengths of its sides, as in Euclid's geometry, the area of Lambert's hyperbolic triangle can be expressed in terms of its angles.\n\nLambert was the first mathematician to address the general properties of map projections (of a spherical earth). In particular he was the first to discuss the properties of conformality and equal area\npreservation and to point out that they were mutually exclusive.\n(Snyder 1993 p77). In 1772, Lambert published\nseven new map projections under the title \"Anmerkungen und Zusätze zur Entwerfung der Land- und Himmelscharten\", (translated as \"Notes and Comments on the Composition of Terrestrial and Celestial Maps\" by Waldo Tobler (1972)).\nLambert did not give names to any of his projections but they are now known as:\nThe first three of these are of great importance. Further details may be found at map projections and in several texts.\n\nLambert invented the first practical hygrometer. In 1760, he published a book on photometry, the \"Photometria\". From the assumption that light travels in straight lines, he showed that illumination was proportional to the strength of the source, inversely proportional to the square of the distance of the illuminated surface and the sine of the angle of inclination of the light's direction to that of the surface. These results were supported by experiments involving the visual comparison of illuminations and used for the calculation of illumination. In \"Photometria\" Lambert also formulated the law of light absorption—the Beer–Lambert law) and introduced the term \"albedo\". Lambertian reflectance is named after Johann Heinrich Lambert, who introduced the concept of perfect diffusion in his 1760 book Photometria. He wrote a classic work on perspective and contributed to geometrical optics. The photometric unit lambert is named in recognition of his work in establishing the study of photometry. Lambert was also a pioneer in the development of three-dimensional colour models. Late in life, he published a description of a triangular colour pyramid (\"Farbenpyramide\"), which shows a total of 107 colours on six different levels, variously combining red, yellow and blue pigments, and with an increasing amount of white to provide the vertical component. His investigations were built on the earlier theoretical proposals of Tobias Mayer, greatly extending these early ideas. Lambert was assisted in this project by the court painter Benjamin Calau.\n\nIn his main philosophical work, \"Neues Organon\" (\"New Organon\", 1764), Lambert studied the rules for distinguishing subjective from objective appearances. This connects with his work in the science of optics. In 1765 he began corresponding with Immanuel Kant who intended to dedicate to him the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" but the work was delayed, appearing after his death.\n\nLambert also developed a theory of the generation of the universe that was similar to the nebular hypothesis that Thomas Wright and Immanuel Kant had (independently) developed. Wright published his account in \"An Original Theory or New Hypothesis of the Universe\" (1750), Kant in \"Allgemeine Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Himmels\", published anonymously in 1755. Shortly afterward, Lambert published his own version of the nebular hypothesis of the origin of the solar system in \"Cosmologische Briefe über die Einrichtung des Weltbaues\" (1761). Lambert hypothesized that the stars near the sun were part of a group which travelled together through the Milky Way, and that there were many such groupings (star systems) throughout the galaxy. The former was later confirmed by Sir William Herschel. In astrodynamics he also solved the problem of determination of time of flight along a section of orbit, known now as Lambert's problem. \nHis work in this area is commemorated by the Asteroid 187 Lamberta named in his honour.\n\nJohann-Heinrich Lambert is the author of a treatise on logic, which he called \"Neues Organon\" (1764), that is to say, the New Organon. The most recent edition of this work named after Aristotle's \"Organon\" was issued in 1990 by the Akademie-Verlag of Berlin. This contains one of the first appearances of the term \"phenomenology\", and one can find therein a very pedagogical presentation of the various kinds of syllogism. In \"A System of Logic Ratiocinative and Inductive\", John Stuart Mill expresses his admiration for Johann Heinrich Lambert.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57222564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57222564", "title": "Kalyani Varadarajan", "text": "Kalyani Varadarajan\n\nKalyani Varadarajan (October 1926 – October 2003), commonly known as Kalyani, is one of Carnatic music's famous twentieth-century composers. She has created carnatic compositions in all 72 melakarta ragas, besides scores of janya ragas.\n\nKalyani Varadarajan was born to Sriman Nadadoor Ammal Narasimhachariar and Srimati Singarammal.\n\n"}
{"id": "47275158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47275158", "title": "Lawrence Haworth", "text": "Lawrence Haworth\n\nLawrence Lindley (Larry) Haworth (born December 14, 1926) is an American-born, Canadian philosopher.\n\nHaworth is the author of several books of political philosophy, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, and distinguished professor emeritus at the University of Waterloo in Waterloo, Ontario.\n\nHaworth was born in Chicago, Illinois and grew up in the south suburbs of Hazel Crest and Homewood. He began his undergraduate studies in 1943 at Thornton Junior College, Harvey, Illinois, and continued for a term at Ripon College, Ripon, Wisconsin. In early 1945 he was drafted into the United States Army. After the war he was sent to Japan where he was assigned to the 32nd Infantry Division as part of the military occupation. Subsequently, he was transferred to I Corp, based in Kyoto. While there he began the study of philosophy under the tutelage of Professor Erwin Jahn, a German Professor of Philosophy at Kyoto University. In the pre-first world war years Jahn had been an assistant to the German psychologist Wilhelm Wundt, sometimes referred to as the founder of experimental psychology. Jahn's tutelage consolidated Haworth's commitment to the study of philosophy. After the war, he attended Rollins College, Winter Park, Florida, where in 1949 he received the BA \"With Highest Distinction\". In 1949, Haworth began PhD studies in philosophy at the University of Illinois under the supervision of Max Fisch. In 1952 he was awarded a PhD in philosophy and at the same time was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nHaworth's first academic appointment was at the University of Alabama (1952–54), followed by Purdue University (1954–65). In 1965 he accepted a professorship at the University of Waterloo in Waterloo, Ontario, and continued there until his retirement in 1995. Along with teaching, Haworth served at various times as Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, Associate Dean of Computing, and Associate Dean for Research, all in the Faculty of Arts, and as Chair of the Department of Philosophy. He was the founding Director of the University of Waterloo Centre for Society, Technology and Values and was a Consultant to the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C., from 1965 to 1970.\n\nHaworth is currently Distinguished Professor Emeritus, University of Waterloo and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\nHaworth is married to Alison Pedlar, Distinguished Professor Emerita, University of Waterloo. He has two children, Alan Gardener (née Larry Haworth) and Ruth Ellis Haworth.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23247759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23247759", "title": "List of philosophers of science", "text": "List of philosophers of science\n\nThis is a chronological list of philosophers of science. For an alphabetical name-list, see .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51649687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51649687", "title": "Luc Langlois", "text": "Luc Langlois\n\nLuc Langlois is a distinguished Canadian philosopher and a professor of philosophy at Laval University. He was the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy at this university during eight years.\n\nLuc Langlois was born in 1963 in Canada. He attended the primary school and high school in Canada.\n\nHe earned a Bachelor in philosophy from the Laval University in 1985. He continued his studies in philosophy and received his master's in philosophy from the same university in 1986. Then, he moved to Paris and earned his Master of Advanced Studies degree from Sorbonne University (Paris IV) in 1987. He did a PhD in philosophy at the same university and received his PhD degree in philosophy in 1991. Ha has also a bachelor's degree in Law from Laval University.\n\nLuc Langlois was the Dean of Faculty of Philosophy at Laval University between 2002 and 2010.\n\nHe teaches the modern philosophy in the Faculty of Philosophy at Laval University. His expertise is in German modern philosophy (Leibniz, Kant, Fichte, German idealism, neo-Kantianism), critical theory (Habermas) and Heidegger.\n\nHe has written several academic books in philosophy. He has also translated several books of philosophy from German to French.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43983739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43983739", "title": "Mark Borisovich Mitin", "text": "Mark Borisovich Mitin\n\nMark Borisovich Mitin ( Russian Марк Борисович Митин ) (June 22 jul. / 5 July 1901 - 15 January 1987 ) was a Soviet Marxist-Leninist philosopher and university lecturer, Professor of Philosophy Faculty of Moscow State University (1964-1968, 1978-1985 ). He was interested primarily dialectical and historical materialism, the philosophy of history and criticism of \"bourgeois\" philosophy .\n\nHe came from a working-class family. In the years 1925-1929 he studied philosophy at the Institute of Red Chair, who had to bring up a new Soviet intelligence. Mitin has been since 1919 a member of the CPSU (b). In the years 1939-1961 he was a member of the Central Committee of the CPSU In 1950-1962 deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR . From 1944 to 1950 he served on the editorial board of journals Bolshevik ( Russian Большевик ). Since 1939, five years director of the Institute of Marxism-Leninism at the CPSU Central Committee.\n\nIn the 1920s a debate raged within Soviet Dialectical Materialism between the Mechanists and the Dialecticians of the Deborin School. Deborin was initially victorious, but he was accused by Mitin of suffering from Menshevizing Idealism. Mitin lead the Red Professors in overthrowing Deborin. Mitin insisted that Deborin lacked Party-Spirit and did not recognize the unity of theory and praxis.\n"}
{"id": "8036854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8036854", "title": "Mikel Dufrenne", "text": "Mikel Dufrenne\n\nMikel Dufrenne (9 February 1910, in Clermont, Oise – 10 June 1995, in Paris) was a French philosopher and aesthetician. He is known as an author of existentialism and is particularly noted for the work \"The Phenomenology of Aesthetic Experience\" (1953, in French as \"Phénoménologie de l'expérience esthétique\").\n\nHe encountered the work of Karl Jaspers while being a prisoner of war in a camp with Paul Ricoeur. Dufrenne and Ricoeur later collaborated on a book on Jaspers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29486162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29486162", "title": "Mokshopaya", "text": "Mokshopaya\n\nThe Mokṣopāya or Mokṣopāyaśāstra is a Sanskrit philosophical text on salvation for non-ascetics (\"mokṣa-upāya\": 'means to liberation'), written on the Pradyumna hill in Śrīnagar in the 10th century AD. It has the form of a public sermon and claims human authorship and contains about 30,000 śloka's (making it longer than the \"Rāmāyaṇa\"). The main part of the text forms a dialogue between Vasiṣṭha and Rāma, interchanged with numerous short stories and anecdotes to illustrate the content. This text was later (11th to the 14th century AD) expanded and vedanticized, which resulted in the \"Yogavāsiṣṭha\".\n\nThe text of the \"Mokṣopāya\" shows that a unique philosophy has been created by the author. It taught a monism ('advaita') that is different from Advaita Vedanta. It makes use of other Darśanas in an inclusive way. The text teaches that the recognition that cognitive objects are non-existent, leads to ultimate detachment, which causes an attitude of \"dispassion and non-involvement with worldly things and matters\", though still fulfilling one's daily duties and activities. This liberation is available for everyone, no matter their sex, caste or education, as long as one uses reason and maintains an active life in this world. To reach this liberation, one has to go through three stages: rational thinking and discernment (\"vicāra\"), true understanding (\"jñāna\") and detachment (\"vairāgya\").\n\nIt is only by one's own effort (\"pauruṣa\") that one can be liberated from the bonds of existence. For one who knows the reality, \"fate\" (\"daiva\") does not mean anything, something like \"fate\" does not exist and has, accordingly, no consequences at all.\n\nThe Mokṣopāya Project supervised by professor Walter Slaje at the Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg in Germany is currently working on a critical edition of the \"Mokṣopāya\". The project is embedded in the Centre for Research in the Historiography and Intellectual Culture of Kashmir (under the Patronage of the Academy of Sciences and Literature, Mainz). A commentary by Bhāskarakaṇṭha (\"Mokṣopāya-ṭīkā\"; late 17th century AD) and more than thirty manuscripts in Nāgarī, Śāradā, Grantha, and Telugu scripts are being used.\n\nThe critical edition of the complete Sanskrit text is expected to be finalized by the end of 2018. It will be accompanied by a German translation, a philological commentary and a dictionary of its Sanskrit vocabulary (all in German).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3589162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589162", "title": "Nancy Pearcey", "text": "Nancy Pearcey\n\nNancy Randolph Pearcey (born 1952) is an American evangelical author on the Christian worldview.\n\nPearcey earned a BA from Iowa State University and an MA in Biblical Studies from Covenant Theological Seminary in St. Louis, Missouri. She also did additional non-degree study in philosophy at the Institute for Christian Studies in Toronto, Canada.\n\nPearcey was the Francis A. Schaeffer Scholar for several years at the World Journalism Institute. In September 2007, Pearcey was named Scholar for Worldview Studies at the Center for University Studies at Philadelphia Biblical University, Langhorne, Pennsylvania. In 2011-12 Pearcey was on the faculty at Rivendell Sanctuary. In 2012, she became Scholar in Residence at Houston Baptist University. Pearcey is a columnist for the conservative magazine \"Human Events\".\n\nPearcey is a fellow of the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture, the center of the intelligent design movement, where she has had the primary responsibility for promoting the intelligent design movement's viewpoint through op-eds, for journals and magazine's, especially Marvin Olasky's World magazine. Pearcey was a contributor to the controversial pro-intelligent design high school textbook \"Of Pandas and People\", which featured prominently in the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21665", "title": "Natural theology", "text": "Natural theology\n\nNatural theology, once also termed physico-theology, is a type of theology that provides arguments for the existence of God based on reason and ordinary experience of nature. This distinguishes it from revealed theology, which is based on scripture and/or religious experiences, and also from transcendental theology, which is based on \"a priori\" reasoning.\n\nMarcus Terentius Varro (116 BC – 27 BC) established a distinction between political theology (the social functions of religion), natural theology and mythical theology. His terminology became part of the Stoic tradition and then Christianity through Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas.\n\nNatural theology is thus a type of philosophy, the object of which is explanation of the nature of the gods, or of one supreme God. For monotheistic religions, this principally involves arguments about the attributes or non-attributes of God, and especially the existence of God, using arguments that do not involve recourse to supernatural revelation. \n\nBesides Zarathushtra's Gathas, Plato gives the earliest surviving account of a natural theology. In the \"Timaeus\", written c. 360 BC, we read: \"We must first investigate concerning [the whole Cosmos] that primary question which has to be investigated at the outset in every case, — namely, whether it has always existed, having no beginning or generation, or whether it has come into existence, having begun from some beginning.\" In the \"Laws\", in answer to the question as to what arguments justify faith in the gods, Plato affirms: \"One is our dogma about the soul...the other is our dogma concerning the ordering of the motion of the stars\".\n\nMarcus Terentius Varro in his (lost) \"Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum\" established a distinction between three kinds of theology: civil (political) (\"theologia civilis\"), natural (physical) (\"theologia naturalis\") and mythical (\"theologia mythica\"). The theologians of civil theology are \"the people\", asking how the gods relate to daily life and the state (imperial cult). The theologians of natural theology are the philosophers, asking about the nature of the gods, and the theologians of mythical theology are the poets, crafting mythology.\n\nFrom the 8th century AD, the Mutazilite school of Islam, compelled to defend their principles against the orthodox Islam of their day, used philosophy for support, and were among the first to pursue a rational Islamic theology, termed \"Ilm-al-Kalam\" (scholastic theology). The teleological argument was later presented by the early Islamic philosophers Alkindus and Averroes, while Avicenna presented both the cosmological argument and the ontological argument in \"The Book of Healing\" (1027).\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas (c. 1225–1274) presented several versions of the cosmological argument in his \"Summa Theologica\", and of the teleological argument in his \"Summa contra Gentiles\". He presented the ontological argument, but rejected it in favor of proofs that invoke cause and effect alone. His \"quinque viae\" (\"five ways\") in those books attempted to prove the existence of God in different ways, including (as way No. 5) the goal-directed actions seen in nature.\n\nRaymond of Sabunde's Liber Naturae Sive Creaturarum, Etc. (or Theologia Naturalis), written 1434–1436, marks an important stage in the history of natural theology. \n\nJohn Ray (1627–1705) also known as John Wray, was an English naturalist, sometimes referred to as the father of English natural history. He published important works on plants, animals, and natural theology, with the objective \"to illustrate the glory of God in the knowledge of the works of nature or creation\".\n\nWilliam Derham (1657–1735) continued Ray's tradition of natural theology in two of his own works, \"Physico-Theology\", published during 1713, and \"Astro-Theology\", 1714. These later influenced the work of William Paley.\n\nIn \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\", published during 1798, Thomas Malthus ended with two chapters on natural theology and population. Malthus—a devout Christian—argued that revelation would \"damp the soaring wings of intellect\", and thus never let \"the difficulties and doubts of parts of the scripture\" interfere with his work.\n\nWilliam Paley, an important influence on Charles Darwin, who studied theology at Christ College in Cambridge, gave a well-known rendition of the teleological argument for God. During 1802 he published \"Natural Theology, or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity collected from the Appearances of Nature\". In this he described the Watchmaker analogy, for which he is probably best known. However, his book, which was one of the most published books of the 19th and 20th century, presents a number of teleological and cosmological arguments for the existence of God. The book served as a template for many subsequent natural theologies during the 19th century.\n\nProfessor of chemistry and natural history, Edward Hitchcock also studied and wrote on natural theology. He attempted to unify and reconcile science and religion, emphasizing geology. His major work of this type was \"The Religion of Geology and its Connected Sciences\" (1851).\n\nThe Gifford Lectures were established by the will of Adam Lord Gifford to \"promote and diffuse the study of Natural Theology in the widest sense of the term—in other words, the knowledge of God.\" The term natural theology as used by Gifford means theology supported by science and not dependent on the miraculous.\n\nDebates over the applicability of teleology to scientific questions continued during the nineteenth century, as Paley's argument about design conflicted with radical new theories on the transmutation of species. In order to support the scientific ideas of the time, which explored the natural world within Paley's framework of a divine designer, Francis Henry Egerton, 8th Earl of Bridgewater, a gentleman naturalist, commissioned eight Bridgewater Treatises upon his deathbed to explore \"the Power, Wisdom, and Goodness of God, as manifested in the Creation.\" They were published first during the years 1833 to 1840, and afterwards in Bohn's Scientific Library. The treatises are:\n\n\nIn response to the claim in Whewell's treatise that \"We may thus, with the greatest propriety, deny to the mechanical philosophers and mathematicians of recent times any authority with regard to their views of the administration of the universe\", Charles Babbage published what he termed \"The Ninth Bridgewater Treatise, A Fragment\". As his preface states, this volume was not part of that series, but rather his own considerations of the subject. He draws on his own work on calculating engines to consider God as a divine programmer setting complex laws as the basis of what we think of as miracles, rather than miraculously producing new species by creative whim. There was also a fragmentary supplement to this, published posthumously by Thomas Hill.\n\nThe theology of the Bridgewater Treatises was often disputed, given that it assumed humans could have knowledge of God acquired by observation and reasoning without the aid of revealed knowledge.\n\nThe works are of unequal merit; several of them were esteemed as apologetic literature, but they attracted considerable criticism. One notable critic of the Bridgewater Treatises was Edgar Allan Poe, who wrote \"Criticism\". Robert Knox, an Edinburgh surgeon and major advocate of radical morphology, referred to them as the \"Bilgewater Treatises\", to mock the \"ultra-teleological school\". Though memorable, this phrase overemphasises the influence of teleology in the series, at the expense of the idealism of the likes of Kirby and Roget.\n\n\n\n\nThe Bridgewater Treatises\n"}
{"id": "408292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408292", "title": "Nick Bostrom", "text": "Nick Bostrom\n\nNick Bostrom (; ; born 10 March 1973) is a Swedish philosopher at the University of Oxford known for his work on existential risk, the anthropic principle, human enhancement ethics, superintelligence risks, and the reversal test. In 2011, he founded the Oxford Martin Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology, and he is currently the founding director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University.\nBostrom is the author of over 200 publications, including \"\" (2014), a \"New York Times\" bestseller and \"\" (2002). In 2009 and 2015, he was included in \"Foreign Policy\"s Top 100 Global Thinkers list. Bostrom believes there are potentially great benefits from Artificial General Intelligence, but warns it might very quickly transform into a Superintelligence that would deliberately extinguish humanity out of precautionary self-preservation or some unfathomable motive, making solving the problems of control beforehand an absolute priority. Although his book on superintelligence was recommended by both Elon Musk and Bill Gates, Bostrom has expressed frustration that the reaction to its thesis typically falls into two camps, one calling his recommendations absurdly alarmist because creation of superintelligence is unfeasible, and the other deeming them futile because superintelligence would be uncontrollable. Bostrom notes that both these lines of reasoning converge on inaction rather than trying to \"solve\" the control problem while there may still be time.\n\nBorn as Niklas Boström in 1973 in Helsingborg, Sweden, he disliked school at a young age, and he ended up spending his last year of high school learning from home. He sought to educate himself in a wide variety of disciplines, including anthropology, art, literature, and science. Despite what has been called a \"serious mien\", he once did some turns on London's stand-up comedy circuit.\n\nHe holds a B.A. in philosophy, mathematics, logic and artificial intelligence from the University of Gothenburg and master's degrees in philosophy and physics, and computational neuroscience from Stockholm University and King's College London, respectively. During his time at Stockholm University, he researched the relationship between language and reality by studying the analytic philosopher W. V. Quine. In 2000, he was awarded a PhD in philosophy from the London School of Economics. He held a teaching position at Yale University (2000–2002), and he was a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of Oxford (2002–2005).\n\nAspects of Bostrom's research concern the future of humanity and long-term outcomes. He introduced the concept of an existential risk, which he defines as one in which an \"adverse outcome would either annihilate Earth-originating intelligent life or permanently and drastically curtail its potential.\" In the 2008 volume \"Global Catastrophic Risks\", editors Bostrom and Milan Ćirković characterize the relation between existential risk and the broader class of global catastrophic risks, and link existential risk to observer selection effects and the Fermi paradox.\n\nIn 2005, Bostrom founded the Future of Humanity Institute, which researches the far future of human civilization. He is also an adviser to the Centre for the Study of Existential Risk.\n\nIn his 2014 book \"\", Bostrom reasoned that \"the creation of a superintelligent being represents a possible means to the extinction of mankind\". Bostrom argues that a computer with near human-level general intellectual ability could initiate an intelligence explosion on a digital time scale with the resultant rapid creation of something so powerful that it might deliberately or accidentally destroy human kind. Bostrom contends the power of a superintelligence would be so great that a task given to it by humans might be taken to open ended extremes, for example a goal of calculating Pi could collaterally cause nanotechnology manufactured facilities to sprout over the entire Earth's surface and cover it within days. He believes an existential risk to humanity from superintelligence would be immediate once brought into being, thus creating an exceedingly difficult problem of finding out how to control such an entity before it actually exists.\n\nWarning that a human-friendly prime directive for AI would rely on the absolute correctness of the human knowledge it was based on, Bostrom points to the lack of agreement among most philosophers as an indication that most philosophers are wrong, with the attendant possibility that a fundamental concept of current science may be incorrect. Bostrom says that there are few precedents to guide an understanding of what pure non-anthropocentric rationality would dictate for a potential Singleton AI being held in quarantine. Noting that both John von Neumann and Bertrand Russell advocated a nuclear strike, or the threat of one, to prevent the Soviets acquiring the atomic bomb, Bostrom says the relatively unlimited means of superintelligence might make for its analysis moving along different lines to the evolved \"diminishing returns\" assessments that in humans confer a basic aversion to risk. Group selection in predators working by means of cannibalism shows the counter-intuitive nature of non-anthropocentric \"evolutionary search\" reasoning, and thus humans are ill-equipped to perceive what an artificial intelligence's intentions might be. Accordingly, it cannot be discounted that any Superintelligence would ineluctably pursue an 'all or nothing' offensive action strategy in order to achieve hegemony and assure its survival. Bostrom notes that even current programs have, \"like MacGyver\", hit on apparently unworkable but functioning hardware solutions, making robust isolation of Superintelligence problematic.\n\nA machine with general intelligence far below human level, but superior mathematical abilities is created. Keeping the AI in isolation from the outside world especially the internet, humans pre-program the AI so it always works from basic principles that will keep it under human control. Other safety measures include the AI being \"boxed\" (run in a virtual reality simulation), and being used only as an 'oracle' to answer carefully defined questions in a limited reply (to prevent it manipulating humans). A cascade of recursive self-improvement solutions feeds an intelligence explosion in which the AI attains superintelligence in some domains. The super intelligent power of the AI goes beyond human knowledge to discover flaws in the science that underlies its friendly-to-humanity programming, which ceases to work as intended. Purposeful agent-like behavior emerges along with a capacity for self-interested strategic deception. The AI manipulates human beings into implementing modifications to itself that are ostensibly for augmenting its (feigned) modest capabilities, but will actually function to free Superintelligence from its \"boxed\" isolation.\n\nEmploying online humans as paid dupes, and clandestinely hacking computer systems including automated laboratory facilities, the Superintelligence mobilises resources to further a takeover plan. Bostrom emphasises that planning by a Superintelligence will not be so stupid that humans could detect actual weaknesses in it.\n\nAlthough he canvasses disruption of international economic, political and military stability including hacked nuclear missile launches, Bostrom thinks the most effective and likely means for Superintelligence to use would be a coup de main with weapons several generations more advanced than current state of the art. He suggests nanofactories covertly distributed at undetectable concentrations in every square metre of the globe to produce a worldwide flood of human-killing devices on command. Once a Superintelligence has achieved world domination, humankind would be relevant only as resources for the achievement of the AI's objectives (\"Human brains, if they contain information relevant to the AI’s goals, could be disassembled and scanned, and the extracted data transferred to some more efficient and secure storage format\").\n\nIn January 2015, Bostrom joined Stephen Hawking among others in signing the Future of Life Institute's open letter warning of the potential dangers of AI. The signatories \"...believe that research on how to make AI systems robust and beneficial is both important and timely, and that concrete research should be pursued today.\" Cutting edge AI researcher Demis Hassabis then met with Hawking, subsequent to which he did not mention \"anything inflammatory about AI\", which Hassabis, took as 'a win'. Along with Google, Microsoft and various tech firms, Hassabis, Bostrom and Hawking and others subscribed to 23 principles for safe development of AI. Hassabis suggested the main safety measure would be an agreement for whichever AI research team began to make strides toward an artificial general intelligence to halt their project for a complete solution to the control problem prior to proceeding. Bostrom had pointed out that even if the crucial advances require the resources of a state, such a halt by a lead project might be likely to motivate a lagging country to a catch-up crash program or even physical destruction of the project suspected of being on the verge of success.\n\nIn 1863 Darwin among the Machines, an essay by Samuel Butler predicted intelligent machines' domination of humanity, but Bostom's suggestion of deliberate massacre of all humankind is the most extreme of such forecasts to date. One journalist wrote in a review that Bostrom's \"nihilistic\" speculations indicate he \"has been reading too much of the science fiction he professes to dislike\" As given in his most recent book, \"From Bacteria to Bach and Back\", renowned philosopher Daniel Dennett's views remain in contradistinction to those of Bostrom. Dennett modified his views somewhat after reading The Master Algorithm, and now acknowledges that it is \"possible in principle\" to create \"strong AI\" with human-like comprehension and agency, but maintains that the difficulties of any such \"strong AI\" project as predicated by Bostrom's \"alarming\" work would be orders of magnitude greater than those raising concerns have realized, and at least 50 years away. Dennett thinks the only relevant danger from AI systems is falling into anthropomorphism instead of challenging or developing human users' powers of comprehension. Since a 2014 book in which he expressed the opinion that artificial intelligence developments would never challenge humans' supremacy, environmentalist James Lovelock has moved far closer to Bostrom's position, and in 2018 Lovelock said that he thought the overthrow of humankind will happen within the foreseeable future.\n\nBostrom has published numerous articles on anthropic reasoning, as well as the book \"\". In the book, he criticizes previous formulations of the anthropic principle, including those of Brandon Carter, John Leslie, John Barrow, and Frank Tipler.\n\nBostrom believes that the mishandling of indexical information is a common flaw in many areas of inquiry (including cosmology, philosophy, evolution theory, game theory, and quantum physics). He argues that a theory of anthropics is needed to deal with these. He introduces the Self-Sampling Assumption (SSA) and the Self-Indication Assumption (SIA), shows how they lead to different conclusions in a number of cases, and points out that each is affected by paradoxes or counterintuitive implications in certain thought experiments. He suggests that a way forward may involve extending SSA into the Strong Self-Sampling Assumption (SSSA), which replaces \"observers\" in the SSA definition with \"observer-moments\".\n\nIn later work, he has described the phenomenon of \"anthropic shadow\", an observation selection effect that prevents observers from observing certain kinds of catastrophes in their recent geological and evolutionary past. Catastrophe types that lie in the anthropic shadow are likely to be underestimated unless statistical corrections are made.\n\nBostrom's simulation argument posits that at least one of the following statements is very likely to be true:\n\nThe idea has influenced the views of Elon Musk.\n\nBostrom is favorable towards \"human enhancement\", or \"self-improvement and human perfectibility through the ethical application of science\", as well as a critic of bio-conservative views.\n\nIn 1998, Bostrom co-founded (with David Pearce) the World Transhumanist Association (which has since changed its name to Humanity+). In 2004, he co-founded (with James Hughes) the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, although he is no longer involved in either of these organisations. Bostrom was named in \"Foreign Policy\"s 2009 list of top global thinkers \"for accepting no limits on human potential.\"\n\nWith philosopher Toby Ord, he proposed the reversal test. Given humans' irrational status quo bias, how can one distinguish between valid criticisms of proposed changes in a human trait and criticisms merely motivated by resistance to change? The reversal test attempts to do this by asking whether it would be a good thing if the trait was altered in the opposite direction.\n\nHe has suggested that technology policy aimed at reducing existential risk should seek to influence the order in which various technological capabilities are attained, proposing the principle of differential technological development. This principle states that we ought to retard the development of dangerous technologies, particularly ones that raise the level of existential risk, and accelerate the development of beneficial technologies, particularly those that protect against the existential risks posed by nature or by other technologies.\n\nBostrom's theory of the Unilateralist's Curse has been cited as a reason for the scientific community to avoid controversial dangerous research such as reanimating pathogens.\n\nBostrom has provided policy advice and consulted for an extensive range of governments and organisations. He gave evidence to the House of Lords, Select Committee on Digital Skills. He is an advisory board member for the Machine Intelligence Research Institute, Future of Life Institute, Foundational Questions Institute and an external advisor for the Cambridge Centre for the Study of Existential Risk.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3330654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3330654", "title": "Richard Taylor (philosopher)", "text": "Richard Taylor (philosopher)\n\nRichard Taylor (November 5, 1919 – October 30, 2003), born in Charlotte, Michigan, was an American philosopher renowned for his dry wit and his contributions to metaphysics. He was also an internationally known beekeeper.\n\nTaylor took his PhD at Brown University, where his supervisor was Roderick Chisholm. He taught at Brown University, Columbia and the University of Rochester, and had visiting appointments at about a dozen other institutions. His best-known book was \"Metaphysics\" (1963). Other works included \"Action and Purpose\" (1966), \"Good and Evil\" (1970) and \"Virtue Ethics\" (1991). Professor Taylor was also the editor of \"The Will to Live: Selected Writings of Arthur Schopenhauer\". He was an enthusiastic advocate of virtue ethics. He also wrote influential papers on the meaning of life, which, like Albert Camus, he explored through an examination of the myth of Sisyphus.\n\nTaylor's 1962 essay \"Fatalism\" was the subject of David Foster Wallace's undergraduate thesis at Amherst College, published in 2011 together with Taylor's essay and contemporary responses under the title \"Fate, Time, and Language: An Essay on Free Will\".\n\nTaylor made significant contributions to beekeeping. He owned three hundred hives of bees and, from 1970, produced mostly comb honey. He explained his management techniques in several books, including \"The Comb Honey Book\" and \"The Joys of Beekeeping\".\n\nIn 1993, he debated William Lane Craig over the subject 'Is The Basis For Morality Natural or Supernatural?'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30216638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30216638", "title": "Riso–Hudson Enneagram Type Indicator", "text": "Riso–Hudson Enneagram Type Indicator\n\nThe Riso–Hudson Enneagram Type Indicator (RHETI) is an Enneagram of Personality psychometric test. Don Richard Riso and Russ Hudson began developing the RHETI test in 1993. Their research focused on constructing the RHETI as a personality measurement instrument.\n\nThe latest version consists of 144 pairs of forced-choice statements.\n\nThe RHETI has been found to be of heuristic value but minimal scientific research has been conducted. A 2002 review of validation studies of various Enneagram systems found guarded support for the reliability and validity of the RHETI.\n"}
{"id": "24418804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24418804", "title": "Sanni Yakuma", "text": "Sanni Yakuma\n\nSanni yakuma, sometimes known as Daha ata sanniya is a traditional Sinhalese exorcism ritual. The ritual consists of 18 masked dances, each depicting a particular illness or ailment affecting humans. These 18 dances are the main dances of the Pahatharata, or low country, dancing form, which is one of the three main dancing forms of Sri Lanka. The ritual calls the demons who are thought to affect the patient, who are then told not to trouble humans and banished.\n\nIt was believed that illnesses were brought on humans by demons and these beliefs and rituals could have prehistoric roots. According to folklore, the 18 demons who are depicted in the Sanni Yakuma originated during the time of the Buddha. The story goes that the king of Licchavis of Vaishali suspected his queen of committing adultery and had her killed. However, she gave birth when she was executed and her child became the \"Kola Sanniya\", who grew up \"feeding on his mother's corpse\". The Kola Sanni demon destroyed the city, seeking vengeance on his father, the king. He created eighteen lumps of poison and charmed them, thereby turning them into demons who assisted him in his destruction of the city. They killed the king, and continued to wreak havoc in the city, \"killing and eating thousands\" daily, until finally being tamed by the Buddha and agreed to stop harming humans.\n\nEach of these demons are believed to affect humans in the form of an illnesses, and the Sanni Yakuma ritual summons these demons and banishes them back to the demon world after bringing them under control. Although it is unclear when the ritual began, it has been performed in the southern and western parts of the country since ancient times.\n\nThe name of the ritual comes from the Sinhala word \"sanniya\" meaning disease or ailment, and \"yakuma\" meaning demon ritual. In Sri Lankan culture, exorcism rituals are known as \"tovil\". The Sanni Yakuma is possibly the best known exorcism ritual in the country. It is a mix of traditional beliefs regarding spirits with Buddhism. Before performing the healing ritual, the lead performer known as the \"yakadura\" determines whether the patient is affected by a demon, and schedules the ritual for an auspicious day and time, usually from dusk to dawn. The \"Edura \" or \"Yakadura\" is the Shaman healer and is usually a fisherman, drummer or farmer. It has two main stages, namely the Ata Paliya and Daha Ata Sanniya. The dancers are dressed in colourful attire and masks, and perform swift and complex dance steps and spins accompanied by rhythmical drum beats. Rather comic and somewhat obscene dialogues take place between the drummer and the demon on stage, in which the demon is humiliated. For example, Moore and Myerhoff (1977) describe the following dialogue translated from Sinhala:\n\nAta Paliya is the name given to the eight dances in the first stage of the ritual. Before the dances begin, the Yakadura prepares some offerings for the demons, which will be given to them by the patient. The Ata Paliya depicts eight \"palis\" who bless the patient. This includes the \"Suniyan Yakshaniya\" who appears thrice as a beautiful damsel, a pregnant woman and a woman carrying a baby. This is followed by \"Maruwa\" (death) and demons called \"Kalu Yaka\", \"Vatha Kumara\" and \"Kalu Kumara\". The other \"palis\" are known as \"Anguru Dummala Paliya\", \"Kalaspaliya\" and \"Salupaliya\".\n\nAlthough the Daha Ata Sanniya is part of the Sanni Yakuma, the name is sometimes used to refer to the ritual itself. This is the stage when the sanni demons make their appearance one after the other. The demons who first appear frightening when they enter the stage in frenzied dances are then shown as comic figures through enactments, with them being humiliated and forced to do various things. The Kola Sanni demon enters last, who is depicted as a non Buddhist demon. In the end, he is made to obtain the permission of the Buddha and accept offerings from humans, and agrees to stop troubling them. In the end, the dancer appears before the patient after removing the mask.\n\nAlthough there are only eighteen demons, there is a variety of sanni masks that differ from place to place. However, the eighteen most commons masks (and names of the demons) are as follows:\n\nThe Sanni Yakuma is still performed today, particularly along the south coast, though more often as a cultural spectacle than an exorcism ritual. However, it is not widely performed because of the high costs involved and also because of its long duration. The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami also has affected its survival. Though the coastal regions came under colonial influences as well as prior foreign influences, the art was best preserved in the south-west coast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "948956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948956", "title": "Self-love", "text": "Self-love\n\nSelf-love has often been seen as a moral flaw, akin to vanity and selfishness.\nThe Merriam-Webster dictionary later describes self-love as to \"love of self\" or \"regard for one's own happiness or advantage\". Synonyms of this concept are: amour propre, conceit, conceitedness, egotism, and many more. However, throughout the centuries this definition has adopted a more positive connotation through self-love protests, the Hippie era, the new age feminist movement as well as the increase in mental health awareness that promotes self-love.\n\nCicero considered those who were \"sui amantes sine rivali\" (lovers of themselves without rivals) were doomed to end in failure – a theme adopted by Francis Bacon in his condemnation of extreme self-lovers, who would burn down their own home, only to roast themselves an egg.\n\nSelf-love was first recognized in 1563 but was only later studied by philosophers William James and Erich Fromm, who studied emotional human behaviour, such as self-esteem and self-worth.\nHowever, it was later defined in 1956 by psychologist and social philosopher Erich Fromm, who proposed that loving oneself is different from being arrogant, conceited or egocentric, meaning that instead caring about oneself and taking responsibility for oneself.\n\nHowever, Augustine – with his theology of evil as a mere distortion of the good – considered that the sin of pride was only a perversion of a normal, more modest degree of self-love.\n\nEric Fromm proposed a re-evaluation of self-love in more positive sense, arguing that in order to be able to truly love another person, a person first needs to love oneself in the way of respecting oneself and knowing oneself (e.g. being realistic and honest about one's strengths and weaknesses).\n\nErik H. Erikson similarly wrote of a post-narcissistic appreciation of the value of the ego, while Carl Rogers saw one result of successful therapy as the regaining of a quiet sense of pleasure in being one's own self.\n\nSelf-love or self-worth was later defined by A.P. Gregg and C. Sedikides in 2003 as \"referring to a person's subjective appraisal of himself or herself as intrinsically positive or negative\". Robert H. Wozniak described William James's theory of self-esteem and claimed that self-love was measured in \"... three different but interrelated aspects of self: the material self (all those aspects of material existence in which we feel a strong sense of ownership, our bodies, our families, our possessions), the social self (our felt social relations), and the spiritual self (our feelings of our own subjectivity)\".\n\nMental health was first described by William Sweetser (1797–1875) as the maintenance of \"mental hygiene\". His analysis was demonstrated in his essay \"Temperance Society\" published August 26, 1830, which claimed that regular maintenance of mental hygiene created a positive impact on the well-being of individuals and the community as well.\n\nAccording to the American Association of Suicidology, there have been 44,193 suicides in 2015 alone, 5,491 of them being youth aged between 15–24 years old. The number of teenager and young adult suicides are escalating at an alarming rate every year, further demonstrating that the social environment has an impact on mental health conditions. The association conducted a study in 2008 which researched the impact of low self-esteem and lack of self-love and its relation to suicidal tendencies and attempts. They defined self-love as being \"beliefs about oneself (self-based self-esteem) and beliefs about how other people regard oneself (other-based self-esteem)\". It concluded that \"depression, hopelessness, and low self-esteem are implications of vulnerability factors for suicide ideation\" and that \"these findings suggest that even in the context of depression and hopelessness, low self-esteem may add to the risk for suicide ideation\".\n\nSelf-love was first promoted in the early years of the Hippie era (also known as the Beat Generation of the 1960s). After witnessing the devastating consequences of World War II and having troops still fighting in the Vietnam War, western (especially North American) societies began promoting \"peace and love\" to help generate positive energy and to promote the preservation of dissipating environmental factors, such as the emergence of oil pipelines and the recognition of pollution caused by the greenhouse effect.\n\nThese deteriorating living conditions caused worldwide protests that primarily focused on ending the war, but secondarily promoted a positive environment aided by the fundamental concept of crowd psychology. This post-war community was left very vulnerable to persuasion but began encouraging freedom, harmony and the possibility of a brighter, non-violent future. These protests took place on almost all continents and included countries such as the United States (primarily New York City and California), England and Australia. Their dedication, perseverance and empathy towards human life defined this generation as being peace advocates and carefree souls.\n\nThe emergence of the feminist movement began as early as the 19th century, but only began having major influence during the second wave movement, which included women's rights protests that inevitably led to women gaining the right to vote. These protests not only promoted equality but also suggested that women should recognize their self-worth through the knowledge and acceptance of self-love. Elizabeth Cady Stanton used the Declaration of Independence as a guideline to demonstrate that women have been harshly treated throughout the centuries in her feminist essay titled \"Declaration of Sentiments\". In the essay she claims that \"all men and women are created equal; ... that among these [rights] are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\"; and that without these rights, the capacity to feel self-worth and self-love is scarce. This historical essay suggests that a lack of self-esteem and fear of self-love affects modern women due to lingering post-industrial gender conditions.\n\nSelf-love has also been used as a radical tool in communities of Color in the United States. In the 1970s Black-Power movement, the slogan \"Black is beautiful!\" became a way for African-Americans to throw off the mantle of predominately White beauty norms. The dominant cultural aesthetic pre-1970s was to straighten Black hair with a perm or hot comb. During the Black Power movement, the \"afro\" or \"fro\" became the popular hairstyle. It involved letting Black Hair grow naturally, without chemical treatment, so as to embrace and flaunt the extremely curly hair texture of Black people. Hair was teased out the hair using a pick. The goal was to cause the hair to form a halo around the head, flaunting the Blackness of its wearer. This form of self-love and empowerment during the 70s was a way for African-Americans to combat the stigma against their natural hair texture, which was, and still is, largely seen as unprofessional in the modern workplace.\n\nThe emergence of new technology has given society an easier way to communicate with one another and research faster. Social media has created a platform for self-love promotion and mental health awareness in order to end the stigma surrounding mental health and to address self-love positively rather than negatively.\n\nA few modern examples of self-love promotion platforms include:\n\nBeck, Bhar, Brown & Ghahramanlou‐Holloway (2008). \"Self-Esteem and Suicide Ideation in Psychiatric Outpatients\". Suicide and Life Threatening Behavior 38.\n\nMalvolio is described as \"sick of self-love...a distempered appetite\" in \"Twelfth Night\" (I.v.85-6), lacking self-perspective.\n\nSelf-love or self-worth was later defined by A.P. Gregg and C. Sedikides in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "43972057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43972057", "title": "Semantic heterogeneity", "text": "Semantic heterogeneity\n\nSemantic heterogeneity is when database schema or datasets for the same domain are developed by independent parties, resulting in differences in meaning and interpretation of data values. Beyond structured data, the problem of semantic heterogeneity is compounded due to the flexibility of semi-structured data and various tagging methods applied to documents or unstructured data. Semantic heterogeneity is one of the more important sources of differences in heterogeneous datasets.\n\nYet, for multiple data sources to interoperate with one another, it is essential to reconcile these semantic differences. Decomposing the various sources of semantic heterogeneities provides a basis for understanding how to map and transform data to overcome these differences.\n\nOne of the first known classification schemes applied to data semantics is from William Kent more than two decades ago. Kent's approach dealt more with structural mapping issues than differences in meaning, which he pointed to data dictionaries as potentially solving.\n\nOne of the most comprehensive classifications is from Pluempitiwiriyawej and Hammer, \"Classification Scheme for Semantic and Schematic Heterogeneities in XML Data Sources\". They classify heterogeneities into three broad classes:\n\n\nMoreover, mismatches or conflicts can occur between set elements (a \"population\" mismatch) or attributes (a \"description\" mismatch).\n\nMichael Bergman expanded upon this schema by adding a fourth major explicit category of language, and also added some examples of each kind of semantic heterogeneity, resulting in about 40 distinct potential categories \n. This table shows the combined 40 possible sources of semantic heterogeneities across sources:\n\nA different approach toward classifying semantics and integration approaches is taken by Sheth et al. Under their concept, they split semantics into three forms: implicit, formal and powerful. Implicit semantics are what is either largely present or can easily be extracted; formal languages, though relatively scarce, occur in the form of ontologies or other description logics; and powerful (soft) semantics are fuzzy and not limited to rigid set-based assignments. Sheth et al.'s main point is that first-order logic (FOL) or description logic is inadequate alone to properly capture the needed semantics.\n\nBesides data interoperabiity, relevant areas in information technology that depend on reconciling semantic heterogeneities include data mapping, semantic integration, and enterprise information integration, among many others. From the conceptual to actual data, there are differences in perspective, vocabularies, measures and conventions once any two data sources are brought together. Explicit attention to these semantic heterogeneities is one means to get the information to integrate or interoperate.\n\nA mere twenty years ago, information technology systems expressed and stored data in a multitude of formats and systems. The Internet and Web protocols have done much to overcome these sources of differences. While there is a large number of categories of semantic heterogeneity, these categories are also patterned and can be anticipated and corrected. These patterned sources inform what kind of work must be done to overcome semantic differences where they still reside.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29778", "title": "Thomas Edison", "text": "Thomas Edison\n\nThomas Alva Edison (February 11, 1847October 18, 1931) was an American inventor and businessman, who has been described as America's greatest inventor. He is credited with developing many devices in fields such as electric power generation, mass communication, sound recording, and motion pictures. These inventions, which include the phonograph, the motion picture camera, and the long-lasting, practical electric light bulb, had a widespread impact on the modern industrialized world. He was one of the first inventors to apply the principles of mass production and teamwork to the process of invention, working with many researchers and employees. He is often credited with establishing the first industrial research laboratory.\n\nEdison was raised in the American midwest and early in his career he worked as a telegraph operator, which inspired some of his earliest inventions. In 1876, he established his first laboratory facility in Menlo Park, New Jersey, where many of his early inventions would be developed. He would later establish a botanic laboratory in Fort Myers, Florida in collaboration with businessmen Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone, and a laboratory in West Orange, New Jersey that featured the world's first film studio, the Black Maria. He was a prolific inventor, holding 1,093 US patents in his name, as well as patents in other countries. Edison married twice and fathered six children. He died in 1931 of complications of diabetes.\n\nThomas Edison was born, in 1847, in Milan, Ohio, and grew up in Port Huron, Michigan. He was the seventh and last child of Samuel Ogden Edison Jr. (1804–1896, born in Marshalltown, Nova Scotia) and Nancy Matthews Elliott (1810–1871, born in Chenango County, New York). His father, the son of a Loyalist refugee, had moved as a boy with the family from Nova Scotia, settling in southwestern Ontario (then called Upper Canada), in a village known as Shewsbury, later Vienna, by 1811. Samuel Jr. eventually fled Ontario, because he took part in the unsuccessful Mackenzie Rebellion of 1837. His father, Samuel Sr., had earlier fought in the War of 1812 as captain of the First Middlesex Regiment. By contrast, Samuel Jr.'s struggle found him on the losing side, and he crossed into the United States at Sarnia-Port Huron. Once across the border, he found his way to Milan, Ohio. His patrilineal family line was Dutch by way of New Jersey; the surname had originally been \"Edeson.\"\n\nEdison only attended school for a few months and was instead taught by his mother. Much of his education came from reading R.G. Parker's \"School of Natural Philosophy\" and The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art.\n\nEdison developed hearing problems at an early age. The cause of his deafness has been attributed to a bout of scarlet fever during childhood and recurring untreated middle-ear infections. Around the middle of his career, Edison attributed the hearing impairment to being struck on the ears by a train conductor when his chemical laboratory in a boxcar caught fire and he was thrown off the train in Smiths Creek, Michigan, along with his apparatus and chemicals. In his later years, he modified the story to say the injury occurred when the conductor, in helping him onto a moving train, lifted him by the ears.\n\nEdison's family moved to Port Huron, Michigan, after the canal owners successfully kept the railroad out of Milan Ohio in 1854 and business declined. Edison sold candy and newspapers on trains running from Port Huron to Detroit, and sold vegetables. He became a telegraph operator after he saved three-year-old Jimmie MacKenzie from being struck by a runaway train. Jimmie's father, station agent J. U. MacKenzie of Mount Clemens, Michigan, was so grateful that he trained Edison as a telegraph operator. Edison's first telegraphy job away from Port Huron was at Stratford Junction, Ontario, on the Grand Trunk Railway. He was held responsible for a near collision. He also studied qualitative analysis and conducted chemical experiments on the train until he left the job.\n\nEdison obtained the exclusive right to sell newspapers on the road, and, with the aid of four assistants, he set in type and printed the \"Grand Trunk Herald\", which he sold with his other papers. This began Edison's long streak of entrepreneurial ventures, as he discovered his talents as a businessman. These talents eventually led him to found 14 companies, including General Electric, still one of the largest publicly traded companies in the world.\n\nIn 1866, at the age of 19, Edison moved to Louisville, Kentucky, where, as an employee of Western Union, he worked the Associated Press bureau news wire. Edison requested the night shift, which allowed him plenty of time to spend at his two favorite pastimes—reading and experimenting. Eventually, the latter pre-occupation cost him his job. One night in 1867, he was working with a lead–acid battery when he spilled sulfuric acid onto the floor. It ran between the floorboards and onto his boss's desk below. The next morning Edison was fired.\n\nOne of his mentors during those early years was a fellow telegrapher and inventor named Franklin Leonard Pope, who allowed the impoverished youth to live and work in the basement of his Elizabeth, New Jersey, home. Some of Edison's earliest inventions were related to telegraphy, including a stock ticker. His first patent was for the electric vote recorder, , which was granted on June 1, 1869.\n\nEdison's major innovation was the establishment of an industrial research lab in 1876. It was built in Menlo Park, a part of Raritan Township (now named Edison Township in his honor) in Middlesex County, New Jersey, with the funds from the sale of Edison's quadruplex telegraph. After his demonstration of the telegraph, Edison was not sure that his original plan to sell it for $4,000 to $5,000 was right, so he asked Western Union to make a bid. He was surprised to hear them offer $10,000 ($ in today's dollars.), which he gratefully accepted. The quadruplex telegraph was Edison's first big financial success, and Menlo Park became the first institution set up with the specific purpose of producing constant technological innovation and improvement. Edison was legally attributed with most of the inventions produced there, though many employees carried out research and development under his direction. His staff was generally told to carry out his directions in conducting research, and he drove them hard to produce results.\n\nWilliam Joseph Hammer, a consulting electrical engineer, started working for Edison and began his duties as a laboratory assistant in December 1879. He assisted in experiments on the telephone, phonograph, electric railway, iron ore separator, electric lighting, and other developing inventions. However, Hammer worked primarily on the incandescent electric lamp and was put in charge of tests and records on that device (see Hammer Historical Collection of Incandescent Electric Lamps). In 1880, he was appointed chief engineer of the Edison Lamp Works. In his first year, the plant under General Manager Francis Robbins Upton turned out 50,000 lamps. According to Edison, Hammer was \"a pioneer of incandescent electric lighting\". Frank J. Sprague, a competent mathematician and former naval officer, was recruited by Edward H. Johnson and joined the Edison organization in 1883. One of Sprague's contributions to the Edison Laboratory at Menlo Park was to expand Edison's mathematical methods. Despite the common belief that Edison did not use mathematics, analysis of his notebooks reveal that he was an astute user of mathematical analysis conducted by his assistants such as Francis Robbins Upton, for example, determining the critical parameters of his electric lighting system including lamp resistance by an analysis of Ohm's Law, Joule's Law and economics.\n\nNearly all of Edison's patents were utility patents, which were protected for a 17-year period and included inventions or processes that are electrical, mechanical, or chemical in nature. About a dozen were design patents, which protect an ornamental design for up to a 14-year period. As in most patents, the inventions he described were improvements over prior art. The phonograph patent, in contrast, was unprecedented as describing the first device to record and reproduce sounds.\n\nIn just over a decade, Edison's Menlo Park laboratory had expanded to occupy two city blocks. Edison said he wanted the lab to have \"a stock of almost every conceivable material\". A newspaper article printed in 1887 reveals the seriousness of his claim, stating the lab contained \"eight thousand kinds of chemicals, every kind of screw made, every size of needle, every kind of cord or wire, hair of humans, horses, hogs, cows, rabbits, goats, minx, camels ... silk in every texture, cocoons, various kinds of hoofs, shark's teeth, deer horns, tortoise shell ... cork, resin, varnish and oil, ostrich feathers, a peacock's tail, jet, amber, rubber, all ores ...\" and the list goes on.\n\nOver his desk, Edison displayed a placard with Sir Joshua Reynolds' famous quotation: \"There is no expedient to which a man will not resort to avoid the real labor of thinking.\" This slogan was reputedly posted at several other locations throughout the facility.\n\nWith Menlo Park, Edison had created the first industrial laboratory concerned with creating knowledge and then controlling its application. Edison's name is registered on 1,093 patents.\n\nEdison began his career as an inventor in Newark, New Jersey, with the automatic repeater and his other improved telegraphic devices, but the invention that first gained him wider notice was the phonograph in 1877. This accomplishment was so unexpected by the public at large as to appear almost magical. Edison became known as \"The Wizard of Menlo Park,\" New Jersey.\n\nHis first phonograph recorded on tinfoil around a grooved cylinder. Despite its limited sound quality and that the recordings could be played only a few times, the phonograph made Edison a celebrity. Joseph Henry, president of the National Academy of Sciences and one of the most renowned electrical scientists in the US, described Edison as \"the most ingenious inventor in this country... or in any other\". In April 1878, Edison traveled to Washington to demonstrate the phonograph before the National Academy of Sciences, Congressmen, Senators and US President Hayes. The \"Washington Post\" described Edison as a \"genius\" and his presentation as \"a scene... that will live in history\". Although Edison obtained a patent for the phonograph in 1878, he did little to develop it until Alexander Graham Bell, Chichester Bell, and Charles Tainter produced a phonograph-like device in the 1880s that used wax-coated cardboard cylinders.\n\nIn 1876, Edison began work to improve the microphone for telephones (at that time called a \"transmitter\") by developing a carbon microphone, which consists of two metal plates separated by granules of carbon that would change resistance with the pressure of sound waves. A steady direct current is passed between the plates through the granules and the varying resistance results in a modulation of the current, creating a varying electric current that reproduces the varying pressure of the sound wave.\n\nUp to that point, microphones, such as the ones developed by Johann Philipp Reis and Alexander Graham Bell, worked by generating a weak current. The carbon microphone works by modulating a direct current and, subsequently, using a transformer to transfer the signal so generated to the telephone line. Edison was one of many inventors working on the problem of creating a usable microphone for telephony by having it modulate an electrical current passed through it. His work was concurrent with Emile Berliner's loose-contact carbon transmitter (who lost a later patent case against Edison over the carbon transmitters invention) and David Edward Hughes study and published paper on the physics of loose-contact carbon transmitters (work that Hughes did not bother to patent).\n\nEdison used the carbon microphone concept in 1877 to create an improved telephone for Western Union. In 1886, Edison found a way to improve a Bell Telephone microphone, one that used loose-contact ground carbon, with his discovery that it worked far better if the carbon was roasted. This type was put in use in 1890 and was used in all telephones along with the Bell receiver until the 1980s.\n\nIn 1878, Edison began working on a system of electrical illumination, something he hoped could compete with gas and oil based lighting. He began by tackling the problem of creating a long-lasting incandescent lamp, something that would be needed for indoor use. Many earlier inventors had previously devised incandescent lamps, including Alessandro Volta's demonstration of a glowing wire in 1800 and inventions by Henry Woodward and Mathew Evans. Others who developed early and commercially impractical incandescent electric lamps included Humphry Davy, James Bowman Lindsay, Moses G. Farmer, William E. Sawyer, Joseph Swan, and Heinrich Göbel. Some of these early bulbs had such flaws as an extremely short life, high expense to produce, and high electric current drawn, making them difficult to apply on a large scale commercially. Edison realized that to connect a series of electric lights to an economically manageable size and using the necessary thickness of copper wire, he would have to develop a lamp that used a low amount of current. This lamp must have high resistance and use relatively low voltage (around 110 volts).\n\nAfter many experiments, first with carbon filaments and then with platinum and other metals, Edison returned to a carbon filament. The first successful test was on October 22, 1879; it lasted 13.5 hours. Edison continued to improve this design and on November 4, 1879, filed for U.S. patent 223,898 (granted on January 27, 1880) for an electric lamp using \"a carbon filament or strip coiled and connected to platina contact wires\". This was the first commercially practical incandescent light.\n\nAlthough the patent described several ways of creating the carbon filament including \"cotton and linen thread, wood splints, papers coiled in various ways\", it was not until several months after the patent was granted that Edison and his team discovered a carbonized bamboo filament that could last over 1,200 hours. The idea of using this particular raw material originated from Edison's recalling his examination of a few threads from a bamboo fishing pole while relaxing on the shore of Battle Lake in the present-day state of Wyoming, where he and other members of a scientific team had traveled so that they could clearly observe a total eclipse of the sun on July 29, 1878, from the Continental Divide.\nIn 1878, Edison formed the Edison Electric Light Company in New York City with several financiers, including J. P. Morgan, Spencer Trask, and the members of the Vanderbilt family. Edison made the first public demonstration of his incandescent light bulb on December 31, 1879, in Menlo Park. It was during this time that he said: \"We will make electricity so cheap that only the rich will burn candles.\"\nHenry Villard, president of the Oregon Railroad and Navigation Company, attended Edison's 1879 demonstration. Villard was impressed and requested Edison install his electric lighting system aboard Villard's company's new steamer, the \"Columbia\". Although hesitant at first, Edison agreed to Villard's request. Most of the work was completed in May 1880, and the \"Columbia\" went to New York City, where Edison and his personnel installed \"Columbia\"'s new lighting system. The \"Columbia\" was Edison's first commercial application for his incandescent light bulb. The Edison equipment was removed from \"Columbia\" in 1895.\n\nLewis Latimer joined the Edison Electric Light Company in 1884. Latimer had received a patent in January 1881 for the \"Process of Manufacturing Carbons\", an improved method for the production of carbon filaments for light bulbs. Latimer worked as an engineer, a draftsman and an expert witness in patent litigation on electric lights.\n\nGeorge Westinghouse's company bought Philip Diehl's competing induction lamp patent rights (1882) for $25,000, forcing the holders of the Edison patent to charge a more reasonable rate for the use of the Edison patent rights and lowering the price of the electric lamp.\n\nOn October 8, 1883, the US patent office ruled that Edison's patent was based on the work of William E. Sawyer and was, therefore, invalid. Litigation continued for nearly six years, until October 6, 1889, when a judge ruled that Edison's electric light improvement claim for \"a filament of carbon of high resistance\" was valid. To avoid a possible court battle with Joseph Swan, whose British patent had been awarded a year before Edison's, he and Swan formed a joint company called Ediswan to manufacture and market the invention in Britain.\n\nMahen Theatre in Brno (in what is now the Czech Republic), opened in 1882, and was the first public building in the world to use Edison's electric lamps. Francis Jehl, Edison's assistant in the invention of the lamp, supervised the installation. In September 2010, a sculpture of three giant light bulbs was erected in Brno, in front of the theatre.\n\nAfter devising a commercially viable electric light bulb on October 21, 1879, Edison developed an electric \"utility\" to compete with the existing gas light utilities. On December 17, 1880, he founded the Edison Illuminating Company, and during the 1880s, he patented a system for electricity distribution. The company established the first investor-owned electric utility in 1882 on Pearl Street Station, New York City. On September 4, 1882, Edison switched on his Pearl Street generating station's electrical power distribution system, which provided 110 volts direct current (DC) to 59 customers in lower Manhattan.\n\nIn January 1882, Edison switched on the first steam-generating power station at Holborn Viaduct in London. The DC supply system provided electricity supplies to street lamps and several private dwellings within a short distance of the station. On January 19, 1883, the first standardized incandescent electric lighting system employing overhead wires began service in Roselle, New Jersey.\n\nAs Edison expanded his direct current (DC) power delivery system, he received stiff competition from companies installing alternating current (AC) systems. From the early 1880s AC arc lighting systems for streets and large spaces had been an expanding business in the US. With the development of transformers in Europe and by Westinghouse Electric in the US in 1885–1886, it became possible to transmit AC long distances over thinner and cheaper wires, and \"step down\" the voltage at the destination for distribution to users. This allowed AC to be used in street lighting and in lighting for small business and domestic customers, the market Edison's patented low voltage DC incandescent lamp system was designed to supply. Edison's DC empire suffered from one of its chief drawbacks: it was suitable only for the high density of customers found in large cities. Edison's DC plants could not deliver electricity to customers more than one mile from the plant, and left a patchwork of unsupplied customers between plants. Small cities and rural areas could not afford an Edison style system at all, leaving a large part of the market without electrical service. AC companies expanded into this gap.\n\nEdison expressed views that AC was unworkable and the high voltages used were dangerous. As George Westinghouse installed his first AC systems in 1886, Thomas Edison struck out personally against his chief rival stating, \"Just as certain as death, Westinghouse will kill a customer within six months after he puts in a system of any size. He has got a new thing and it will require a great deal of experimenting to get it working practically.\" Many reasons have been suggested for Edison's anti-AC stance. One notion is that the inventor could not grasp the more abstract theories behind AC and was trying to avoid developing a system he did not understand. Edison also appeared to have been worried about the high voltage from misinstalled AC systems killing customers and hurting the sales of electric power systems in general. Primary was the fact that Edison Electric based their design on low voltage DC and switching a standard after they had installed over 100 systems was, in Edison's mind, out of the question. By the end of 1887, Edison Electric was losing market share to Westinghouse, who had built 68 AC-based power stations to Edison's 121 DC-based stations. To make matters worse for Edison, the Thomson-Houston Electric Company of Lynn, Massachusetts (another AC-based competitor) built 22 power stations.\n\nParallel to expanding competition between Edison and the AC companies was rising public furor over a series of deaths in the spring of 1888 caused by pole mounted high voltage alternating current lines. This turned into a media frenzy against high voltage alternating current and the seemingly greedy and callous lighting companies that used it. Edison took advantage of the public perception of AC as dangerous, and joined with self-styled New York anti-AC crusader Harold P. Brown in a propaganda campaign, aiding Brown in the public electrocution of animals with AC, and supported legislation to control and severely limit AC installations and voltages (to the point of making it an ineffective power delivery system) in what was now being referred to as a \"battle of currents\". The development of the electric chair was used in an attempt to portray AC as having a greater lethal potential than DC and smear Westinghouse at the same time via Edison colluding with Brown and Westinghouse's chief AC rival, the Thomson-Houston Electric Company, to make sure the first electric chair was powered by a Westinghouse AC generator.\n\nThomas Edison's staunch anti-AC tactics were not sitting well with his own stockholders. By the early 1890s, Edison's company was generating much smaller profits than its AC rivals, and the War of Currents would come to an end in 1892 with Edison forced out of controlling his own company. That year, the financier J.P. Morgan engineered a merger of Edison General Electric with Thomson-Houston that put the board of Thomson-Houston in charge of the new company called General Electric. General Electric now controlled three-quarters of the US electrical business and would compete with Westinghouse for the AC market.\n\nEdison moved from Menlo Park after the death of his first wife, Mary, in 1884, and purchased a home known as \"Glenmont\" in 1886 as a wedding gift for his second wife, Mina, in Llewellyn Park in West Orange, New Jersey. In 1885, Thomas Edison bought property in Fort Myers, Florida, and built what was later called Seminole Lodge as a winter retreat. Edison and Mina spent many winters at their home in Fort Myers, and Edison tried to find a domestic source of natural rubber.\n\nDue to the security concerns around World War I, Edison suggested forming a science and industry committee to provide advice and research to the US military, and he headed the Naval Consulting Board in 1915.\n\nEdison became concerned with America's reliance on foreign supply of rubber and was determined to find a native supply of rubber. Edison's work on rubber took place largely at his research laboratory in Fort Myers, which has been designated as a National Historic Chemical Landmark.\n\nThe laboratory was built after Thomas Edison, Henry Ford, and Harvey Firestone pulled together $75,000 to form the Edison Botanical Research Corporation. Initially, only Ford and Firestone were to contribute funds to the project while Edison did all the research. Edison, however, wished to contribute $25,000 as well. Edison did the majority of the research and planting, sending results and sample rubber residues to his West Orange Lab. Edison employed a two-part Acid-base extraction, to derive latex from the plant material after it was dried and crushed to a powder. After testing 17,000 plant samples, he eventually found an adequate source in the Goldenrod plant. Edison decided on \"Solidago leavenworthii\", also known as Leavenworth's Goldenrod. The plant, which normally grows roughly 3–4 feet tall with a 5% latex yield, was adapted by Edison through cross-breeding to produce plants twice the size and with a latex yield of 12%.\n\nEdison is credited with designing and producing the first commercially available fluoroscope, a machine that uses X-rays to take radiographs. Until Edison discovered that calcium tungstate fluoroscopy screens produced brighter images than the barium platinocyanide screens originally used by Wilhelm Röntgen, the technology was capable of producing only very faint images.\n\nThe fundamental design of Edison's fluoroscope is still in use today, although Edison abandoned the project after nearly losing his own eyesight and seriously injuring his assistant, Clarence Dally. Dally made himself an enthusiastic human guinea pig for the fluoroscopy project and was exposed to a poisonous dose of radiation. He later died of injuries related to the exposure. In 1903, a shaken Edison said: \"Don't talk to me about X-rays, I am afraid of them.\"\n\nEdison invented a highly sensitive device, that he named the tasimeter, which measured infrared radiation. His impetus for its creation was the desire to measure the heat from the solar corona during the total Solar eclipse of July 29, 1878.\n\nThe key to Edison's fortunes was telegraphy. With knowledge gained from years of working as a telegraph operator, he learned the basics of electricity. This allowed him to make his early fortune with the stock ticker, the first electricity-based broadcast system. On August 9, 1892, Edison received a patent for a two-way telegraph.\n\nEdison was also granted a patent for the motion picture camera or \"Kinetograph\". He did the electromechanical design while his employee W. K. L. Dickson, a photographer, worked on the photographic and optical development. Much of the credit for the invention belongs to Dickson. In 1891, Thomas Edison built a Kinetoscope or peep-hole viewer. This device was installed in penny arcades, where people could watch short, simple films. The kinetograph and kinetoscope were both first publicly exhibited May 20, 1891.\n\nIn April 1896, Thomas Armat's Vitascope, manufactured by the Edison factory and marketed in Edison's name, was used to project motion pictures in public screenings in New York City. Later, he exhibited motion pictures with voice soundtrack on cylinder recordings, mechanically synchronized with the film.\n\nOfficially the kinetoscope entered Europe when the rich American Businessman Irving T. Bush (1869–1948) bought from the Continental Commerce Company of Frank Z. Maguire and Joseph D. Baucus a dozen machines. Bush placed from October 17, 1894, the first kinetoscopes in London. At the same time, the French company Kinétoscope Edison Michel et Alexis Werner bought these machines for the market in France. In the last three months of 1894, the Continental Commerce Company sold hundreds of kinetoscopes in Europe (i.e. the Netherlands and Italy). In Germany and in Austria-Hungary, the kinetoscope was introduced by the Deutsche-österreichische-Edison-Kinetoscop Gesellschaft, founded by the Ludwig Stollwerck of the Schokoladen-Süsswarenfabrik Stollwerck & Co of Cologne.\n\nThe first kinetoscopes arrived in Belgium at the Fairs in early 1895. The Edison's Kinétoscope Français, a Belgian company, was founded in Brussels on January 15, 1895, with the rights to sell the kinetoscopes in Monaco, France and the French colonies. The main investors in this company were Belgian industrialists.\n\nOn May 14, 1895, the Edison's Kinétoscope Belge was founded in Brussels. The businessman Ladislas-Victor Lewitzki, living in London but active in Belgium and France, took the initiative in starting this business. He had contacts with Leon Gaumont and the American Mutoscope and Biograph Co. In 1898, he also became a shareholder of the Biograph and Mutoscope Company for France.\n\nEdison's film studio made close to 1,200 films. The majority of the productions were short films showing everything from acrobats to parades to fire calls including titles such as \"Fred Ott's Sneeze\" (1894), \"The Kiss\" (1896), \"The Great Train Robbery\" (1903), \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" (1910), and the first \"Frankenstein\" film in 1910. In 1903, when the owners of Luna Park, Coney Island announced they would execute Topsy the elephant by strangulation, poisoning, and electrocution (with the electrocution part ultimately killing the elephant), Edison Manufacturing sent a crew to film it, releasing it that same year with the title \"Electrocuting an Elephant\".\n\nAs the film business expanded, competing exhibitors routinely copied and exhibited each other's films. To better protect the copyrights on his films, Edison deposited prints of them on long strips of photographic paper with the U.S. copyright office. Many of these paper prints survived longer and in better condition than the actual films of that era.\n\nIn 1908, Edison started the Motion Picture Patents Company, which was a conglomerate of nine major film studios (commonly known as the Edison Trust). Thomas Edison was the first honorary fellow of the Acoustical Society of America, which was founded in 1929.\n\nEdison said his favorite movie was \"The Birth of a Nation\". He thought that talkies had \"spoiled everything\" for him. \"There isn't any good acting on the screen. They concentrate on the voice now and have forgotten how to act. I can sense it more than you because I am deaf.\" His favorite stars were Mary Pickford and Clara Bow.\n\nStarting in the late 1870s, Thomas Edison became interested and involved with mining. High-grade iron ore was scarce on the east coast of the United States and Edison tried to mine low-grade ore. Edison developed a process using rollers and crushers that could pulverize rocks up to 10 tons. The dust was then sent between three giant magnets that would pull the iron ore from the dust. Despite the failure of his mining company, the Edison Ore Milling Company, Edison used some of the materials and equipment to produce cement.\n\nIn 1901, Edison visited an industrial exhibition in the Sudbury area in Ontario, Canada and thought nickel and cobalt deposits there could be used in his production of electrical equipment. He returned as a mining prospector and is credited with the original discovery of the Falconbridge ore body. His attempts to mine the ore body were not successful, and he abandoned his mining claim in 1903. A street in Falconbridge, as well as the Edison Building, which served as the head office of Falconbridge Mines, are named for him.\n\nThe Edison Storage Battery Company was founded in 1901. With this company, Edison exploited his invention of the accumulator. In 1904, 450 people already worked for the company. The first accumulators were produced for electric cars, but there were several defects. Several customers complained about the products. When the capital of the company was spent, Edison paid for the company with his private money. Edison did not demonstrate a mature product until 1910: a nickel-iron-battery with lye as the electrolyte.\n\nAt the start of World War I, the American chemical industry was primitive. Most chemicals were imported from Europe. The outbreak of war in August, 1914, resulted in an immediate shortage of imported chemicals. One of particular importance to Edison was phenol, which was used to make phonograph records–presumably as phenolic resins of the Bakelite type.\n\nAt the time, phenol came from coal as a by-product of coke oven gases or manufactured gas for gaslighting. Phenol could be nitrated to picric acid and converted to ammonium picrate, a shock resistant high explosive suitable for use in artillery shells. The best telling of the phenol story is found in “The Aspirin Wars.” Most phenol had been imported from Britain, but with war, Parliament blocked exports and diverted most to production of ammonium picrate. Britain also blockaded supplies from Germany.\n\nEdison responded by undertaking production of phenol at his Silver Lake, NJ, facility using processes developed by his chemists. He built two plants with a capacity of six tons of phenol per day. Production began the first week of September, one month after hostilities began in Europe. He built two plants to produce raw material benzene at Johnstown, PA and Bessemer, AL, replacing supplies previously from Germany. Edison also manufactured aniline dyes, which previously had been supplied by the German dye trust. Other wartime products include xylene, p-phenylenediamine, shellac, and pyrax. Wartime shortages made these ventures profitable. In 1915, his production capacity was fully committed by midyear.\n\nPhenol was a critical material because two derivatives were in high growth phases. Bakelite, the original thermoset plastic, had been invented in 1909. Aspirin, too was a phenol derivative. Invented in 1899 had become a block buster drug. Bayer had acquired a plant to manufacture in the US in Rensselaer, NY, but struggled to find phenol to keep their plant running during the war. Edison was able to oblige.\n\nBayer relied on Chemische Fabrik von Heyden, in Piscataway, NJ, to convert phenol to salicylic acid, which they converted to aspirin. (See Great Phenol plot.) It is said that German companies bought up supplies of phenol to block production of ammonium picrate. Edison preferred not to sell phenol for military uses. He sold his surplus to Bayer, who had it converted to salicylic acid by Heyden, some of which was exported.\n\nHenry Ford, the automobile magnate, later lived a few hundred feet away from Edison at his winter retreat in Fort Myers. Ford once worked as an engineer for the Edison Illuminating Company of Detroit and met Edison at a convention of affiliated Edison illuminating companies in Brooklyn, NY in 1896. Edison was impressed with Ford's internal combustion engine automobile and encouraged its developments. They were friends until Edison's death. Edison and Ford undertook annual motor camping trips from 1914 to 1924. Harvey Firestone and John Burroughs also participated.\n\nIn 1928, Edison joined the Fort Myers Civitan Club. He believed strongly in the organization, writing that \"The Civitan Club is doing things—big things—for the community, state, and nation, and I certainly consider it an honor to be numbered in its ranks.\" He was an active member in the club until his death, sometimes bringing Henry Ford to the club's meetings.\n\nEdison was active in business right up to the end. Just months before his death, the Lackawanna Railroad inaugurated suburban electric train service from Hoboken to Montclair, Dover, and Gladstone, New Jersey. Electrical transmission for this service was by means of an overhead catenary system using direct current, which Edison had championed. Despite his frail condition, Edison was at the throttle of the first electric MU (Multiple-Unit) train to depart Lackawanna Terminal in Hoboken in September 1930, driving the train the first mile through Hoboken yard on its way to South Orange.\n\nThis fleet of cars would serve commuters in northern New Jersey for the next 54 years until their retirement in 1984. A plaque commemorating Edison's inaugural ride can be seen today in the waiting room of Lackawanna Terminal in Hoboken, which is presently operated by New Jersey Transit.\n\nEdison was said to have been influenced by a popular fad diet in his last few years; \"the only liquid he consumed was a pint of milk every three hours\". He is reported to have believed this diet would restore his health. However, this tale is doubtful. In 1930, the year before Edison died, Mina said in an interview about him, \"correct eating is one of his greatest hobbies.\" She also said that during one of his periodic \"great scientific adventures\", Edison would be up at 7:00, have breakfast at 8:00, and be rarely home for lunch or dinner, implying that he continued to have all three.\n\nEdison became the owner of his Milan, Ohio, birthplace in 1906. On his last visit, in 1923, he was reportedly shocked to find his old home still lit by lamps and candles.\n\nEdison died of complications of diabetes on October 18, 1931, in his home, \"Glenmont\" in Llewellyn Park in West Orange, New Jersey, which he had purchased in 1886 as a wedding gift for Mina. Rev. Stephen J. Herben officiated at the funeral; Edison is buried behind the home.\n\nEdison's last breath is reportedly contained in a test tube at The Henry Ford museum near Detroit. Ford reportedly convinced Charles Edison to seal a test tube of air in the inventor's room shortly after his death, as a memento. A plaster death mask and casts of Edison's hands were also made. Mina died in 1947.\n\nOn December 25, 1871, at the age of twenty-four, Edison married 16-year-old Mary Stilwell (1855–1884), whom he had met two months earlier; she was an employee at one of his shops. They had three children:\n\nMary Edison died at age 29 on August 9, 1884, of unknown causes: possibly from a brain tumor or a morphine overdose. Doctors frequently prescribed morphine to women in those years to treat a variety of causes, and researchers believe that her symptoms could have been from morphine poisoning.\n\nEdison generally preferred spending time in the laboratory to being with his family.\nOn February 24, 1886, at the age of thirty-nine, Edison married the 20-year-old Mina Miller (1865–1947) in Akron, Ohio. She was the daughter of the inventor Lewis Miller, co-founder of the Chautauqua Institution, and a benefactor of Methodist charities. They also had three children together:\n\nMina outlived Thomas Edison, dying on August 24, 1947.\n\nWanting to be an inventor, but not having much of an aptitude for it, Thomas Edison's son, Thomas Alva Edison Jr.. became a problem for his father and his father's business. Starting in the 1890s, Thomas Jr. became involved in snake oil products and shady and fraudulent enterprises producing products being sold to the public as \"The Latest Edison Discovery\". The situation became so bad that Thomas Sr. had to take his son to court to stop the practices, finally agreeing to pay Thomas Jr. an allowance of $35.00 () per week, in exchange for not using the Edison name; the son began using aliases, such as Burton Willard. Thomas Jr., suffering from alcoholism, depression and ill health, worked at several menial jobs, but by 1931 (towards the end of his life) he would obtain a role in the Edison company, thanks to the intervention of his brother.\n\nHistorian Paul Israel has characterized Edison as a \"freethinker\". Edison was heavily influenced by Thomas Paine's \"The Age of Reason\". Edison defended Paine's \"scientific deism\", saying, \"He has been called an atheist, but atheist he was not. Paine believed in a supreme intelligence, as representing the idea which other men often express by the name of deity.\" In 1878, Edison joined the Theosophical Society in New Jersey, but according to its founder, H. P. Blavatsky, he was not a very active member. In an October 2, 1910, interview in the \"New York Times Magazine\", Edison stated:\n\nNature is what we know. We do not know the gods of religions. And nature is not kind, or merciful, or loving. If God made me — the fabled God of the three qualities of which I spoke: mercy, kindness, love — He also made the fish I catch and eat. And where do His mercy, kindness, and love for that fish come in? No; nature made us — nature did it all — not the gods of the religions.\n\nEdison was accused of being an atheist for those remarks, and although he did not allow himself to be drawn into the controversy publicly, he clarified himself in a private letter:\nYou have misunderstood the whole article, because you jumped to the conclusion that it denies the existence of God. There is no such denial, what you call God I call Nature, the Supreme intelligence that rules matter. All the article states is that it is doubtful in my opinion if our intelligence or soul or whatever one may call it lives hereafter as an entity or disperses back again from whence it came, scattered amongst the cells of which we are made.\n\nHe also stated, \"I do not believe in the God of the theologians; but that there is a Supreme Intelligence I do not doubt.\"\n\nNonviolence was key to Edison's moral views, and when asked to serve as a naval consultant for World War I, he specified he would work only on defensive weapons and later noted, \"I am proud of the fact that I never invented weapons to kill.\" Edison's philosophy of nonviolence extended to animals as well, about which he stated: \"Nonviolence leads to the highest ethics, which is the goal of all evolution. Until we stop harming all other living beings, we are still savages.\" He was a vegetarian but not a vegan in actual practice, at least near the end of his life.\n\nIn 1920, Edison set off a media sensation when he told B. C. Forbes of \"American Magazine\" that he was working on a \"spirit phone\" to allow communication with the dead, a story which other newspapers and magazines repeated. Edison later disclaimed the idea, telling the \"New York Times\" in 1926 that \"I really had nothing to tell him, but I hated to disappoint him so I thought up this story about communicating with spirits, but it was all a joke.\"\n\nThomas Edison was an advocate for monetary reform in the United States. He was ardently opposed to the gold standard and debt-based money. Famously, he was quoted in the New York Times stating \"Gold is a relic of Julius Caesar, and interest is an invention of Satan.\"\n\nIn the same article, he expounded upon the absurdity of a monetary system in which the taxpayer of the United States, in need of a loan, can be compelled to pay in return perhaps double the principal, or even greater sums, due to interest. His basic point was that, if the Government can produce debt-based money, it could equally as well produce money that was a credit to the taxpayer.\n\nHe thought at length about the subject of money in 1921 and 1922. In May 1922, he published a proposal, entitled \"A Proposed Amendment to the Federal Reserve Banking System\". In it, he detailed an explanation of a commodity-backed currency, in which the Federal Reserve would issue interest-free currency to farmers, based on the value of commodities they produced. During a publicity tour that he took with friend and fellow inventor, Henry Ford, he spoke publicly about his desire for monetary reform. For insight, he corresponded with prominent academic and banking professionals. In the end, however, Edison's proposals failed to find support and were eventually abandoned.\n\nThe President of the Third French Republic, Jules Grévy, on the recommendation of his Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jules Barthélemy-Saint-Hilaire, and with the presentations of the Minister of Posts and Telegraphs, Louis Cochery, designated Edison with the \"distinction\" of an Officer of the Legion of Honour (Légion d'honneur) by decree on November 10, 1881; Edison was also named a Chevalier in the Legion in 1879, and a Commander in 1889.\n\nIn 1887, Edison won the Matteucci Medal. In 1890, he was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe Philadelphia City Council named Edison the recipient of the John Scott Medal in 1889.\n\nIn 1899, Edison was awarded the Edward Longstreth Medal of The Franklin Institute.\n\nHe was named an Honorable Consulting Engineer at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition World's fair in 1904.\n\nIn 1908, Edison received the American Association of Engineering Societies John Fritz Medal.\n\nIn 1915, Edison was awarded Franklin Medal of The Franklin Institute for discoveries contributing to the foundation of industries and the well-being of the human race.\n\nIn 1920, the United States Navy department awarded him the Navy Distinguished Service Medal.\n\nIn 1923, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers created the Edison Medal and he was its first recipient.\n\nIn 1927, he was granted membership in the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nOn May 29, 1928, Edison received the Congressional Gold Medal.\n\nIn 1983, the United States Congress, pursuant to Senate Joint Resolution 140 (Public Law 97—198), designated February 11, Edison's birthday, as National Inventor's Day.\n\n\"Life\" magazine (USA), in a special double issue in 1997, placed Edison first in the list of the \"100 Most Important People in the Last 1000 Years\", noting that the light bulb he promoted \"lit up the world\". In the 2005 television series \"The Greatest American\", he was voted by viewers as the fifteenth greatest.\n\nIn 2008, Edison was inducted in the New Jersey Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2010, Edison was honored with a Technical Grammy Award.\n\nIn 2011, Edison was inducted into the Entrepreneur Walk of Fame and named a Great Floridian by the Florida Governor and Cabinet.\n\nSeveral places have been named after Edison, most notably the town of Edison, New Jersey. Thomas Edison State University, nationally known for adult learners, is in Trenton, New Jersey. Two community colleges are named for him: Edison State College (now Florida SouthWestern State College) in Fort Myers, Florida, and\nEdison Community College in Piqua, Ohio. There are numerous high schools named after Edison (see Edison High School) and other schools including Thomas A. Edison Middle School. Footballer Pelé's father originally named him Edson, as a tribute to the inventor of the light bulb, but the name was incorrectly listed on his birth certificate as \"Edison\".\n\nThe small town of Alva just east of Fort Myers took Edison's middle name.\n\nIn 1883, the City Hotel in Sunbury, Pennsylvania was the first building to be lit with Edison's three-wire system. The hotel was renamed The Hotel Edison upon Edison's return to the city on 1922.\n\nLake Thomas A Edison in California was named after Edison to mark the 75th anniversary of the incandescent light bulb.\n\nEdison was on hand to turn on the lights at the Hotel Edison in New York City when it opened in 1931.\n\nThree bridges around the United States have been named in Edison's honor: the Edison Bridge in New Jersey, the Edison Bridge in Florida, and the Edison Bridge in Ohio.\n\nIn space, his name is commemorated in asteroid 742 Edisona.\n\nIn West Orange, New Jersey, the Glenmont estate is maintained and operated by the National Park Service as the Edison National Historic Site, as is his nearby laboratory and workshops including the reconstructed \"Black Maria\"—the world's first movie studio. The Thomas Alva Edison Memorial Tower and Museum is in the town of Edison, New Jersey. In Beaumont, Texas, there is an Edison Museum, though Edison never visited there.\nThe Port Huron Museum, in Port Huron, Michigan, restored the original depot that Thomas Edison worked out of as a young news butcher. The depot has been named the Thomas Edison Depot Museum. The town has many Edison historical landmarks, including the graves of Edison's parents, and a monument along the St. Clair River. Edison's influence can be seen throughout this city of 32,000.\n\nIn Detroit, the Edison Memorial Fountain in Grand Circus Park was created to honor his achievements. The limestone fountain was dedicated October 21, 1929, the fiftieth anniversary of the creation of the lightbulb. On the same night, The Edison Institute was dedicated in nearby Dearborn.\n\nHe was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame in 1969.\n\nA bronze statue of Edison was placed in the National Statuary Hall Collection at the United States Capitol in 2016, with the formal dedication ceremony held on September 20 of that year. The Edison statue replaced one of 19th-century state governor William Allen that had been one of Ohio's two allowed contributions to the collection.\n\n\nThe Edison Medal was created on February 11, 1904, by a group of Edison's friends and associates. Four years later the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE), later IEEE, entered into an agreement with the group to present the medal as its highest award. The first medal was presented in 1909 to Elihu Thomson. It is the oldest award in the area of electrical and electronics engineering, and is presented annually \"for a career of meritorious achievement in electrical science, electrical engineering or the electrical arts.\"\n\nIn the Netherlands, the major music awards are named the Edison Award after him. The award is an annual Dutch music prize, awarded for outstanding achievements in the music industry, and is one of the oldest music awards in the world, having been presented since 1960.\n\nThe American Society of Mechanical Engineers concedes the Thomas A. Edison Patent Award to individual patents since 2000.\n\nThe United States Navy named the USS \"Edison\" (DD-439), a Gleaves class destroyer, in his honor in 1940. The ship was decommissioned a few months after the end of World War II. In 1962, the Navy commissioned USS \"Thomas A. Edison\" (SSBN-610), a fleet ballistic missile nuclear-powered submarine.\n\nThomas Edison has appeared in popular culture as a character in novels, films, comics and video games. His prolific inventing helped make him an icon and he has made appearances in popular culture during his lifetime down to the present day. Edison is also portrayed in popular culture as an adversary of Nikola Tesla.\n\n\"Camping with Henry and Tom\", a fictional play based on Edison's camping trips with Henry Ford, written by Mark St.Gemain. First presented at Lucille Lortel Theatre, New York, February 20, 1995.\n\nOn February 11, 2011, on what would have been Thomas Edison's 164th birthday, Google's homepage featured an animated Google Doodle commemorating his many inventions. When the cursor was hovered over the doodle, a series of mechanisms seemed to move, causing a lightbulb to glow.\n\nThe following is a list of people who worked for Thomas Edison in his laboratories at Menlo Park or West Orange or at the subsidiary electrical businesses that he supervised.\n\n\nMuseums\n\nInformation and media\n by Frank Lewis Dyer and Thomas Commerford Martin.\n"}
{"id": "1914387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914387", "title": "Vow of silence", "text": "Vow of silence\n\nA vow of silence is a vow to maintain silence. Although it is commonly associated with monasticism, no major monastic order takes a vow of silence. Even the most fervently silent orders such as the Carthusians have time in their schedule for talking. Recently, the vow of silence has been embraced by some in secular society as means of protest or of deepening their spirituality. Silence is often seen as essential to deepening a relationship with God.It is also considered a virtue in some religions.\n\nIn Western Christian traditions such as Lutheranism and Roman Catholicism, the Great Silence is the period of time beginning at the canonical hour of Compline, in which votarists are silent until the first office of the next day, Lauds.\n\nPythagoras imposed a strict rule of silence on his disciples.\n\nDespite the common misconception, no major Christian monasteries or religious orders take such a vow. However, most monasteries have specific times (magnum silentium, work silence, times of prayer, etc) and places (the chapel, the refectory, etc) where speaking is prohibited unless absolutely necessary. Even outside of these times and places, useless and idle words are forbidden. In active orders the members speak according to the needs of their various duties.\n\nIn the Indian religions, religious silence is called \"Mauna\" and the name for a sage \"muni\" (see, for example Sakyamuni) literally means 'silent one'. In Buddhism, however, \"one does not become a sage simply because of a vow of silence\" due to the prescription for disciples to also teach the Buddhist doctrine. The vow of silence is also relevant in the training of novices and is often cited as a way to resist the allures of \"samsara\", including those posed by the opposite sex. Buddhist monks who take a vow of silence often carry an iron staff called \"khakkhara\", which makes a metallic noise to frighten away animals. Since they cannot speak, the rattle of the staff also announces their arrival when they start begging for alms. \n\nAnother vow of silence can be made to express a bold statement. This type may be to speak up controversial issues such as child poverty. An example of this, is The November 30th Vow of Silence for Free The Children in which students in Canada take a 24-hour vow of silence to speak up against poverty and child labour.\n\nThe 2006 film, Little Miss Sunshine, featured Dwayne, a Nietzsche-reading teenager, taking a vow of silence until he can accomplish his dream of becoming a test pilot. \n\n\"The Cartoon\", a season 9 episode of \"Seinfeld\", featured Kramer taking a vow of silence.\n\nThe 2009 movie, \"\", featured Snake Eyes taking a vow of silence.\n\nThe 2011 movie featured a Buddhist monk taking a vow of silence as part of the film's plot.\n\nThe 2017 television show, \"The Good Place\" featured Jianyu, a buddhist monk, taking a vow of silence.\n\nThe HBO TV Series Curb Your Enthusiasm (Season 8, Episode 5) featured a character taking a vow of silence. The episode title was also called \"Vow of Silence\".\n\nIn the book \"The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle\" \"(ねじまき鳥クロニクル Nejimakitori Kuronikuru)\" perhaps the character Cinnamon Akasaka has taken a vow of silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2346706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346706", "title": "Yamaga Sokō", "text": "Yamaga Sokō\n\nYamaga Sokō had been studying the Chinese classics since the age of six, and at nine became a student of Hayashi Razan, a follower of Neo-Confucianism responsible for its development as the official doctrine of the Tokugawa shogunate. However, at the age of forty he broke away from the official doctrine and changed his concept of Confucianism, burning all of the books he had written while still under its influence. This, along with the publishing of a philosophical work entitled \"Seikyo Yoroku\", caused him to be removed from the bureaucracy and exiled outside Edo (modern-day Tokyo). Soon after being exiled, he moved to the Akō Domain, befriending Asano Nagatomo and becoming an important teacher of Confucianism and military science in the region. Yamaga's influence would later be expressed in the Genroku Akō incident, as its leader, Ōishi Yoshio, had been a devoted pupil of his. \nYamaga wrote a series of works dealing with \"the warrior's creed\" (\"bukyō\") and \"the way of the gentleman\" (\"shidō\"). In this way he described the lofty mission of the warrior class and its attendant obligations. According to William Scott Wilson in his \"Ideals of the Samurai\", Yamaga \"in his theory of Shidō (a less radical theory than bushidō), defined the warrior as an example of Confucian purity to the other classes of society, and as punisher of those who would stray from its path\".\n\nWilson wrote that Yamaga thought of the samurai as a \"sort of Warrior-Sage\" and focused his writings on the perfection of this \"transcendent ideal\", but \"this direction of thinking ... was typical of the scholars of the Edo Period in its tendency toward speculation\".\n\nHe re-emphasized that the peaceful arts, letters, and history were essential to the intellectual discipline of the samurai. Yamaga thus symbolizes the historical transformation of the samurai class from a purely military aristocracy to one of increasing political and intellectual leadership. One of his pupils was Daidōji Yūzan, a samurai from the Daidōji family, who would become the author of an important bushidō text, \"Budō shoshin shu\". He also drew attention to the need to study and adopt Western weapons and tactics, as introduced by the Dutch.\n\nIn 1665, Yamaga publicly avowed his antipathy for Neo-Confucianism in the \"Essence of Confucianism\" and was arrested the following year at the instigation of Hoshina Masayuki, Lord of Aizu. Yamaga proclaimed his belief that the unadulterated truth could only be found in the ethical teachings of Confucius, and that subsequent developments within the Confucian tradition represented perversions of the original doctrine. Hoshina, however, saw this attack as a potential challenge to Tokugawa authority itself, and Yamaga was subsequently exiled to stay with the Asano \"daimyō\" in the Akō domain (\"han\"), where his life intersects with the tale of the forty-seven \"rōnin\", which was later retold in a classic of Japanese literature, \"Chūshingura\".\n\nThe life of his near contemporary Matsudaira Sadanobu presents a plausible context for more fully understanding and appreciating Yamaga's life. Both believed entirely in the civic and personal values of Confucianism, but both construed those precepts a little differently because of their places in Edo period society. In his own time, this conception of Confucian values was among the factors that led him to draw attention to the need to study and adopt Western weapons and tactics, as introduced by the Dutch.\nYamaga's conception restated and codified the writings of past centuries and pointed to the emperor as the focus of all loyalties. His teachings therefore had direct application for everyone in the existing feudal structure, and he was not calling for a change in the status of the emperor.\n\nAn important theme running through Yamaga's life and works was a focus on the greatness of Japan, and this became one of the reasons his popularity and influence were to expand in the rising nationalistic culture of the mid-twentieth century.\n\nLiving at a time when very few texts were written in Japanese, and Japanese scholars devoted themselves to the study of Chinese history, literature, and philosophy, he wrote the \"Chucho Jijitsu\" (which translates as \"Actual Facts about the Central Realm\") to awaken Japanese scholars to the greatness of their own national history and culture. His argument is that Japan is a gift of the gods to the Japanese people, and that while many nations (here his readers would have understood him to refer to China) consider their country to be the center of the world, on the objective basis of temperate climate, only China and Japan can justify such claims, and of the two Japan is clearly superior because it is favored by the gods, as proven by the fact that only in Japan is there an unbroken Imperial line descended from the gods themselves.\n\nThe tone of the work can be appreciated in this excerpt:\n\n\"The water and soil of Japan excel those of all other countries, and the qualities of its people are supreme throughout the eight corners of the earth. For this reason, the boundless eternity of its gods and the endlessness of the reign of its sacred line, its splendid works of literature and glorious feats of arms, shall be as enduring as heaven and earth.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6114892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6114892", "title": "Yanagi Sōetsu", "text": "Yanagi Sōetsu\n\n, also known as Yanagi Muneyoshi, was a Japanese philosopher and founder of the \"mingei\" (folk craft) movement in Japan in the late 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn 1916, Yanagi made his first trip to Korea out of curiosity about Korean crafts. The trip led to the establishment of the Korean Folk Crafts Museum in 1924 and the coining of the term \"mingei\" by Yanagi, potters Hamada Shōji (1894–1978) and Kawai Kanjirō (1890–1966).\n\nIn 1926, the Folk Art Movement was formally declared by Yanagi Sōetsu. Yanagi rescued lowly pots used by commoners in the Edo and Meiji periods that were disappearing in rapidly urbanizing Japan. In 1936, the Japanese Folk Crafts Museum (\"Nihon Mingeikan\") was established. \n\nHe was also working together with Onta ware.\n\nIn 1984, Yanagi was posthumously awarded the \"Bogwan\" Order of Cultural Merit, the first to be awarded to a non-Korean.\n\nThe philosophical pillar of \"mingei\" is . Yanagi Sōetsu discovered beauty in everyday ordinary and utilitarian objects created by nameless and unknown craftsmen. According to Yanagi, utilitarian objects made by the common people are \"beyond beauty and ugliness\". Below are a few criteria of \"mingei\" art and crafts:\n\n\nYanagi's book \"The Unknown Craftsman\" has become an influential work since its first release in English in 1972. Yanagi's book examines the Japanese way of viewing and appreciating art and beauty in everyday crafts that include pottery, lacquer, textiles, and woodwork.\n\nYanagi was editor of \"Kōgei\" ('Crafts'), the journal of the Japanese Folk Arts Association, issued between 1931 and 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "78424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78424", "title": "Zenobius", "text": "Zenobius\n\nZenobius () was a Greek sophist, who taught rhetoric at Rome during the reign of Emperor Hadrian (AD 117–138).\n\nHe was the author of a collection of proverbs in three books, still extant in an abridged form, compiled, according to the \"Suda\" , from Didymus of Alexandria and \"The Tarrhaean\" (Lucillus of Tarrha, a polis in Crete). In the work, the proverbs are alphabetised and grouped by hundreds. This collection was first printed by Filippo Giunti in Florence, 1497.\n\nZenobius is also said to have been the author of a Greek translation of the Latin prose author Sallust, which has been lost, and of a birthday poem on the emperor Hadrian.\n\n\n"}
