{"id": "3280883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280883", "title": "2004 California Proposition 71", "text": "2004 California Proposition 71\n\nProposition 71 of 2004 (or the California Stem Cell Research and Cures Act) is a law enacted by California voters to support stem cell research in the state. It was proposed by means of the initiative process and approved in the 2004 state elections on November 2. The Act amended both the Constitution of California and the Health and Safety Code.\n\nThe Act makes conducting stem cell research a state constitutional right. It authorizes the sale of general obligation bonds to allocate three billion dollars over a period of ten years to stem cell research and research facilities. Although the funds could be used to finance all kinds of stem cell research, it gives priority to human embryonic stem cell research.\n\nProposition 71 created the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine (CIRM), which is in charge of making \"grants and loans for stem cell research, for research facilities, and for other vital research opportunities to realize therapies\" as well as establishing \"the appropriate regulatory standards of oversight bodies for research and facilities development\". The Act also establishes a governing body called the Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee (ICOC) to oversee CIRM.\n\nProposition 71 is unique in at least three ways. Firstly, it uses general obligation bonds, which are usually used to finance brick-and-mortar projects such as bridges or hospitals, to fund scientific research. Secondly, by funding scientific research on such a large scale, California is taking on a role that is typically fulfilled by the U.S. federal government. Thirdly, Proposition 71 establishes the state constitutional right to conduct stem cell research. The initiative also represents a unique instance where the public directly decided to fund scientific research.\n\nProposition 71 states that \"This measure shall be known as the California Stem Cell Research\nand Cures Act”. That is therefore the official citation. However the measure is also headed as the California Stem Cell Research and Cures Initiative. The Act is long and complex. It amends the state constitution by adding \"Article 35 – Medical Research\". This article establishes the CIRM and guarantees a right to conduct stem cell research. Proposition 71 also amends the Health and Safety Code, by introducing a provision in Part 5 of Division 106 called \"Chapter 3 – California Stem Cell Research and Cures Bond Act\". This chapter, among other provisions, establishes the ICOC.\n\n\nCIRM may have up to 50 employees, who are exempt from civil service. CIRM is divided in three working groups.\n\nHuman embryonic stem cell research became a public issue in 1998 when two teams of scientists developed \"methods for culturing cell lines derived, respectively, from: (1) cells taken from the inner cell mass of early embryos, and (2) the gonadal ridges of aborted fetuses\". Since then, this type of research has sparked intense controversy in the United States.\n\nEver since 1996, Congress has attached to the Health and Human Services appropriations bill (which regulates the funding for the National Institutes of Health) a provision known as the \"Dickey–Wicker Amendment\". This amendment, named after the former representative Jay Dickey, Republican from Arkansas, prohibits the use of federal monies to fund \"research that destroys or seriously endangers human embryos, or creates them for research purposes\".\n\nIn 1999, however, the General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services issued a legal opinion arguing, \"that the wording of the law might permit an interpretation under which human embryonic stem cell research could be funded\". This interpretation stipulated that the government could fund this research so long as the embryos used had been destroyed by researchers privately paid. Although the Clinton administration adopted this interpretation and wrote the corresponding guidelines, it did not have the time to enforce them. The issue would pass on to the next administration.\n\nOn August 9, 2001, President George W. Bush announced his administration's policy regarding human embryonic stem cell research. The President opted to fund only research on the existing 60 cell lines. The small number of cell lines quoted by the President surprised many scientists. Furthermore, they were concerned about the availability and quality of these lines. Scientists also worried about the impact the president’s policy could have on the American research community. The United States, they argued, lags behind other countries where governments support stem cell research. This, in turn, could cause American scientists to move to these countries.\n\nProposition 71 represents a response to the federal policy. The idea for this proposition came about after the California legislature blocked a billion-dollar measure to fund stem cell research. Robert N. Klein II, a real-estate developer from Palo Alto, whose son suffers from diabetes and whose mother has Alzheimer's, became the leader of the campaign effort to pass Proposition 71, and spent three million dollars of his own money in the campaign.\n\nThe Coalition for Stem Cell Research and Cures comprised a broad group of people and organizations that included: 22 Nobel laureates; celebrities such as Christopher Reeve, Sharyn Rossi, Monica Siegenthaler, Brad Pitt, Saba Motakef, and Michael J. Fox; a number of elected officials such as State Treasurer Phil Angelides, and State Controller Steve Westly, and State Senator Deborah Ortiz; more than fifty patient and disease advocacy groups (e.g., Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Alzheimer's Association California Council, Sickle Cell Disease Foundation of California), medical groups and hospitals (e.g., California Medical Association, Children's Hospital-Los Angeles), groups representing Latinos and African Americans (e.g. National Coalition of Hispanic Organization, California NAACP), women's advocacy groups (e.g., Planned Parenthood, California NOW) and faith-based organizations (e.g. Catholics for a Free Choice).\n\nThe Republican Party opposed this initiative, but two key Republican figures endorsed it. They were George P. Shultz, the U.S. Secretary of State in the Reagan Administration and California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. Although Schwarzenegger did not endorse it until October 18, 2004, his support may have helped to solidify the proposition's lead in the polls.\n\nThis campaign raised approximately $25 million. The contributors included such prominent figures as Bill Gates, who donated $400,000; Pierre M. and Pamela Omidyar, the founders of eBay who together gave $1 million; Gordon Gund, the owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball team, who contributed $1 million; Herbert M. Sandler, chairman of the board of World Savings Bank, who gave $500,000; John Doerr, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, who donated $2 million; and William Bowes Jr., a founder of Amgen (a biotech company), who gave $600,000.\n\nThose who opposed Proposition 71 included the Roman Catholic Church, Orange County Republicans, and the California Pro-Life Council, an affiliate of the National Right to Life Committee. Among the politicians in this group were State Senator Tom McClintock (R-Thousand Oaks) and Orange County Treasurer-Tax Collector John Moorlach. The Hollywood actor Mel Gibson also joined the efforts to defeat this initiative. Conservative groups, however, were not the only ones opposing Prop. 71; organizations such as the California Nurses Association (CNA), the Green Party, the Center for Genetics and Society, Our Bodies Ourselves, among others, were also against the initiative.\nTwo prominent groups campaigning to defeat the initiative were the Pro-Choice Alliance Against Proposition 71 and Doctors, Patients, and Taxpayers for Fiscal Responsibility. These two groups lacked the wide range of endorsements that the proponents had (however, the Pro-Choice Alliance Against Proposition 71 was endorsed by seven organizations and a number of university professors). On the Doctors, Patients, and Taxpayers for Fiscal Responsibility website (which no longer exists) there were only fourteen members listed. Among these members were Dr. Vincent Fortanasce, a physician; Diane Beeson, a medical sociologists; Carol Hogan, a spokesperson for the California Catholic Bishops; and Dr. H Rex Greene, an oncologist and hospital administrator.\nThe four organizations campaigning against the initiative raised almost $400,000. The main contributors were the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, which donated $50,000 and Howard Ahmanson Jr., founder and president of Fieldstead & Company, who gave $95,000.\n\nInitial analysis and discussion of need for analysis was done in 2007\n\nSociologist Ruha Benjamin offers the first in-depth analysis of Proposition 71 in People's Science: Bodies and Rights on the Stem Cell Frontier (Stanford University Press 2013). Too frequently the debate over stem cell research devolves in to simple judgments—good or bad, life-saving medicine or bioethical nightmare, symbol of human ingenuity or our fall from grace—ignoring the people affected. Benjamin moves the terms of debate to focus on the shifting relationship between science and society, on the people who benefit—or don't—from Proposition 71 and what this says about democratic commitments to an equitable society. Benjamin discusses issues of race, disability, gender, and socio-economic class that serve to define certain groups as more or less deserving in their political aims and biomedical hopes.\n\n"}
{"id": "201658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201658", "title": "A. J. Cronin", "text": "A. J. Cronin\n\nArchibald Joseph Cronin (19 July 1896 – 6 January 1981) was a Scottish novelist and physician.\n\nHis best-known novel is \"The Citadel\" (1937), the story of a Scottish doctor in a Welsh mining village, who quickly moves up the career ladder in London. Cronin had observed the venues closely as a medical inspector of mines and later as a doctor in Harley Street. The book promoted what were then controversial new ideas about medical ethics and helped to inspire the launch of the National Health Service. Another popular mining novel of Cronin's, set in the North East of England, is \"The Stars Look Down\". Both these novels have been adapted as films, as have \"Hatter's Castle\", \"The Keys of the Kingdom\" and \"The Green Years\". Cronin's novel \"Country Doctor\" was adapted as a long-running BBC radio and TV series \"Dr. Finlay's Casebook\", revived many years later.\n\nCronin was born in Cardross, Dunbartonshire, Scotland, the only child of a Presbyterian mother, Jessie Cronin (née Montgomerie), and a Catholic father, Patrick Cronin. Cronin often wrote of young men from similarly mixed backgrounds. His paternal grandparents had emigrated from County Armagh, Ireland, and become glass and china merchants in Alexandria. Owen Cronin, his grandfather, had had his surname changed from Cronague in 1870. His maternal grandfather, Archibald Montgomerie, was a hatter who owned a shop in Dumbarton. After their marriage Cronin's parents moved to Helensburgh, where he attended Grant Street School. When he was seven years old, his father, an insurance agent and commercial traveller, died from tuberculosis. He and his mother moved to her parents' home in Dumbarton, and she soon became a public health inspector in Glasgow.\n\nCronin was not only a precocious student at Dumbarton Academy who won many prizes in writing competitions, but also an excellent athlete and footballer. From an early age he was an avid golfer, and he enjoyed the sport throughout his life. He also loved salmon fishing.\n\nThe family later moved to Yorkhill, Glasgow, where Cronin attended St Aloysius' College in the Garnethill area of the city. He played football for the First XI there, an experience he included in one of his last novels, \"The Minstrel Boy\". A family decision that he should study either to join the church or to practise medicine was settled by Cronin himself when he chose \"the lesser of two evils\". He won a Carnegie scholarship to study medicine at the University of Glasgow in 1914. He was absent in 1916–1917 for naval service. In 1919 he graduated, with highest honours, with the degree of MBChB. Later that year he made a trip to India as ship's surgeon on a liner. Cronin went on to earn additional qualifications, including a Diploma in Public Health (1923) and his MRCP (1924). In 1925 he was awarded an MD by the University of Glasgow for his dissertation, entitled \"The History of Aneurysm\".\n\nDuring the First World War Cronin served as a surgeon sub-lieutenant in the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve before graduating from medical school. After the war he trained at various hospitals, including Bellahouston and Lightburn Hospitals in Glasgow, and the Rotunda Hospital in Dublin. He undertook general practice in a small village on the Clyde, Garelochhead, as well as in Tredegar, a mining town in South Wales. In 1924 he was appointed Medical Inspector of Mines for Great Britain, and his survey of medical regulations in collieries, and his reports on the correlation between coal dust inhalation and pulmonary disease, were published over the next few years. Cronin drew on his medical experience and his research on the occupational hazards of the mining industry for his later novels \"The Citadel\", set in Wales, and \"The Stars Look Down\", set in Northumberland. He subsequently moved to London, where he practised in Harley Street before opening his own thriving medical practice in Notting Hill. Cronin was also the medical officer for Whiteleys at this time and was becoming increasingly interested in ophthalmology.\n\nIn 1930 Cronin was diagnosed with a chronic duodenal ulcer and was told that he must take six months' complete rest in the country on a milk diet. At Dalchenna Farm by Loch Fyne he was finally able to indulge his lifelong desire to write a novel, having previously \"written nothing but prescriptions and scientific papers\". From Dalchenna Farm he travelled to Dumbarton to research the background of his first novel, using the files of Dumbarton Library, which still has the letter from Cronin requesting advice. He composed \"Hatter's Castle\" in the span of three months, and the manuscript was quickly accepted by Gollancz, the only publishing house to which it had been submitted (it was apparently chosen when his wife randomly stuck a pin into a list of publishers). This novel, which was an immediate and sensational success, launched Cronin's career as a prolific author, and he never returned to practising medicine.\n\nMany of Cronin's books were bestsellers in their day and have been translated into many languages. Some of his stories draw on his medical career, dramatically mixing realism, romance and social criticism. Cronin's works examine moral conflicts between the individual and society, as his idealistic heroes pursue justice for the common man. One of his early novels, \"The Stars Look Down\" (1935), chronicles transgressions in a mining community in Northeast England and an ambitious miner's rise to be a Member of Parliament.\n\nA prodigiously fast writer, Cronin liked to average 5,000 words a day, meticulously planning the details of his plots in advance. He was known to be tough in business dealings, although in private life he was a person whose \"pawky humour ... peppered his conversations,\" according to one of his editors, Peter Haining.\n\nCronin also contributed many stories and essays to various international publications. During the Second World War he worked for the British Ministry of Information, writing articles as well as participating in radio broadcasts to foreign countries.\n\n\"The Citadel\" (1937), a tale of a mining company doctor's struggle to balance scientific integrity with social obligations, helped to incite the establishment of the National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom by exposing the inequity and incompetence of medical practice at the time. In the novel Cronin advocated a free public health service in order to defeat the wiles of those doctors who \"raised guinea-snatching and the bamboozling of patients to an art form.\" Dr Cronin and Aneurin Bevan had both worked at the Tredegar Cottage Hospital in Wales, which served as one of the bases for the NHS. The author quickly made enemies in the medical profession, and there was a concerted effort by one group of specialists to get \"The Citadel\" banned. Cronin's novel, which was the highest-selling book ever published by Victor Gollancz, informed the public about corruption within the medical system, planting a seed that eventually led to reform. Not only were the author's pioneering ideas instrumental in the creation of the NHS, but the historian Raphael Samuel asserted in 1995 that the popularity of Cronin's novels played a substantial role in the Labour Party's landslide victory in 1945.\n\nBy contrast, according to one of Cronin's biographers, Alan Davies, the book's reception was mixed. A few of the more vociferous medical practitioners of the day took exception to one of its many messages: that a few well-heeled doctors in fashionable practices were ripping off their equally well-off patients. Some pointed to the lack of balance between criticism and praise for hard-working doctors. The majority accepted it for what it was, a topical novel. The press attempted to incite passions within the profession in an attempt to sell copy, while Victor Gollancz followed suit in an attempt to promote the book, all overlooking the fact that it was a work of fiction, not a scientific piece of research, and not autobiographical.\n\nIn the United States \"The Citadel\" won the National Book Award, Favorite Fiction of 1937, voted by members of the American Booksellers Association. According to a Gallup poll conducted in 1939, \"The Citadel\" was voted the most interesting book readers had ever read.\n\nSome of Cronin's novels also deal with religion, which he had grown away from during his medical training and career, but which he reacquainted himself with during the 1930s. At medical school, as he recounts in his autobiography, he had become an agnostic: \"When I thought of God it was with a superior smile, indicative of biological scorn for such an outworn myth.\" During his practice in Wales, however, the deep religious faith of the people he worked among made him start to wonder whether \"the compass of existence held more than my text-books had revealed, more than I had ever dreamed of. In short I lost my superiority, and this, though I was not then aware of it, is the first step towards finding God.\"\n\nCronin also came to feel that \"If we consider the physical universe... we cannot escape the notion of a primary Creator... Accept evolution with its fossils and elementary species, its scientific doctrine of natural causes. And still you are confronted with the same mystery, primary and profound. \"Ex nihilo nihil\", as the Latin tag of our schooldays has it: nothing can come of nothing.\" This was brought home to him in London, where in his spare time he had organised a working boys' club. One day he invited a distinguished zoologist to deliver a lecture to the members. The speaker, adopting \"a frankly atheistic approach,\" described the sequence of events leading to the emergence, \"though he did not say how,\" of the first primitive life-form from lifeless matter. When he concluded, there was polite applause. Then, \"a mild and very average youngster rose nervously to his feet,\" and with a slight stammer asked how there came to be anything in the first place. The naïve question took everyone by surprise. The lecturer \"looked annoyed, hesitated, slowly turned red. Then, before he could answer, the whole club burst into a howl of laughter. The elaborate structure of logic offered by the test-tube realist had been crumpled by one word of challenge from a simple-minded boy.\"\n\nIt was at university that Cronin met his future wife, Agnes Mary Gibson (May) (1898–1981), who was also a medical student. She was the daughter of Robert Gibson, a master baker, and Agnes Thomson Gibson (née Gilchrist) of Hamilton, Lanarkshire. The couple married on 31 August 1921. As a physician, May worked with her husband briefly in the dispensary while he was employed by the Tredegar Medical Aid Society; she also assisted him with his practice in London. When he became an author, she would proofread his manuscripts. Their first son, Vincent, was born in Tredegar in 1924. Their second son, Patrick, was born in London in 1926. Andrew, their youngest son, was born in London in 1937.\n\nWith his stories being adapted to Hollywood films, Cronin and his family moved to the United States in 1939, living in Bel Air, California; Nantucket, Massachusetts; Greenwich, Connecticut; and Blue Hill, Maine. In 1945, the Cronins sailed back to England aboard the RMS \"Queen Mary\", where they stayed briefly in Hove and then in Raheny, Ireland before returning to the U.S. the following year. They subsequently took up residence at the Carlyle Hotel in New York City and then in Deerfield, Massachusetts before settling in New Canaan, Connecticut in 1947. Ever the nomad, Cronin also frequently travelled to his homes in Bermuda and Cap-d'Ail, France, where he summered.\n\nUltimately Cronin returned to Europe, to reside in Lucerne and Montreux, Switzerland, for the last 25 years of his life. He continued to write into his eighties. He included among his friends Laurence Olivier, Charlie Chaplin and Audrey Hepburn, to whose first son he was godfather.\n\nAlthough the latter part of his life was spent entirely abroad, Cronin retained a great affection for the district of his childhood, writing in 1972 to a local teacher: \"Although I have travelled the world over I must say in all sincerity that my heart belongs to Dumbarton. ... In my study there is a beautiful 17th century coloured print of the Rock... I even follow with great fervour the fortunes of the Dumbarton football team.\" Further evidence of Cronin's lifelong support of Dumbarton F.C. comes from a framed typewritten letter hanging in the foyer of the club's stadium. In the letter, written in 1972 and addressed to the club's then secretary, Cronin congratulates Dumbarton on their return to the top division after an absence of 50 years and recalls his childhood supporting the Sons (the club's nickname) and on occasion being \"lifted over\" the turnstiles (a common practice in times past so that children did not have to pay).\n\nCronin died on 6 January 1981 in Montreux, and is interred at La Tour-de-Peilz. Many of Cronin's writings, including published and unpublished literary manuscripts, drafts, letters, school exercise books and essays, laboratory books and his M.D. thesis, are held at the National Library of Scotland and at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9082723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9082723", "title": "Adam Monroe", "text": "Adam Monroe\n\nAdam Monroe, also known as in feudal Japan, is a fictional character portrayed by David Anders in the NBC science fiction drama \"Heroes\". The character first appears in the second-season episode \"Four Months Later...\", although the legend of Kensei is referenced several times during the first season. His regenerative ability has halted his aging, making him centuries old in the present of the series. He is the primary antagonist during the second season.\n\nThe name \"Kensei\" means \"master swordsman\" and \"Takezo\" is the birthname of the historical swordmaster Miyamoto Musashi – Kensei is based upon various legends of Japanese swordsmen, including Musashi. According to the legend, Kensei was a Japanese hero, well known for saving Japan from in the 17th century. However, he proves to be a Briton who came to Japan seeking his fortune.\n\nHiro mentions the legend of Takezo Kensei many times in season one, though little is actually related until he trains in kendo with his father in the episode \"Landslide\". Previously, in \"Godsend\" and \"The Fix\", Hiro mentioned that the sword – which he was working to steal from Mr. Linderman – helped Kensei focus his power. He also said that his father used to tell him stories of Kensei, presumably including the many that Hiro tells Kensei in season two. When training with his father for his part in \"saving the world\" before the showdown with Sylar in New York, Hiro relates the story of \"Kensei and the Dragon\" and realizes that, if he wants to win, he must be strong enough to sacrifice himself.\n\nIn the 17th century, civil war threatened Japan; behind it was the warlord \"White Beard.\" Kensei found a sword frozen in the snow. He was not, however, a good enough fighter to wield it, so he went to see the dragon of Kiso Mountain, who could teach him the sword's secrets. The dragon agreed to do this in exchange for Kensei's love. Knowing that Japan would fall under the rule of \"White Beard\" unless he took action, he had to agree to the dragon's demands even though he loved a princess.\n\nAfter saving Japan in a great battle, the dragon came to Kensei to claim his end of the bargain. The dragon demanded the life of the swordsmith's daughter, the princess Kensei loved. Instead, Kensei cut out his own heart and handed it to the dragon, saying, \"My love is in here. Take it,\" and he died.\n\nAccording to the mockumentary \"Sword Saint\", presented on the official Heroes 360 website, the dragon was touched by how much the warrior was willing to offer for his people and love, and restored Kensei's heart to him. Kensei then ran away with the princess.\n\nIn \"Out of Time\", it is revealed that Hiro Nakamura is the Takezo Kensei portrayed in legends, or rather the source behind the tales, having used his own knowledge of the stories to inspire the real Kensei to create the legends. The real Kensei becomes a villain after Yaeko (the Swordsmith's daughter) falls for Hiro, and after Kensei's defeat she spreads Hiro's tale under Kensei's name.\n\nAfter Hiro time travels to 1671 in Ōtsu, Japan, a swordsman rides alone against a larger unit of Japanese warriors before a solar eclipse occurs. Hiro stops time, and, believing the man to be Kensei, teleports the lone warrior and himself away. The man is startled, reveals that he's not really Kensei, and runs away. The real Kensei then emerges and confronts Hiro, explaining that he is actually from England. It appears that the real Kensei is far more interested in making money than being a hero to the people. Hiro tells Kensei that he is supposed to save the village of Ōtsu, just as it is made known that Ōtsu is on fire. At this point, a legendary sword smith's daughter from Ōtsu, Yaeko, takes Kensei's sword, which her father had made for him in return for the latter's promise to protect the village. She blames Kensei for betraying her father's trust and allowing the village to be robbed and burnt.\n\nIn the episode \"Lizards\", Hiro, unable to convince Kensei to become a hero on his own, disguises himself as Kensei and creates one of the first stories himself by disarming twelve bandits. In doing so, he enamors Yaeko to Kensei, which in turn convinces Kensei that becoming the legend might be beneficial. When the bandits return for a sneak attack on Kensei, firing several arrows into his chest, it is revealed that Kensei possesses the power of cellular regeneration. Though he seems to die at first, his wounds heal and he revives as Hiro removes the arrows. Kensei is visibly surprised by the turn of events, suggesting that he had been unaware of it prior to his encounter with Hiro.\n\nInitially, Kensei is horrified by the discovery of his ability, believing Hiro to have cursed him. Once Hiro convinces him that it is a natural gift, he is delighted. Since he is functionally immortal, he can take on any challenge without having to worry about dying; in particular, the prospect of wagered duels seems profitable. Still dismayed that Kensei is unwilling to accept his destiny, Hiro forces Kensei to live out another story: retrieving the fire scroll from the 90 angry ronin (also called the 90 Hungry Ronin in Japanese folklore). All the while, Hiro reassures Yaeko that Kensei will return, which he does, now willing to fulfill his destiny.\n\nThe three then set to work on freeing Ōtsu from White Beard, only to find that the conqueror's entire army has settled there. Having gathered a map of the camp, they are able to sneak in and rescue Yaeko's father, only to discover that, during his captivity, he taught them how to forge guns (illegal during this portion of Japan's history, and thus a significant advantage for White Beard) in order to overthrow the Emperor (then Emperor Go-Sai) and seize power. Hiro realizes that this is the thing he is here to fix, and convinces Kensei to destroy the cache of weapons.\n\nAs the three evacuate Yaeko's father, Hiro is forced to teleport himself and Yaeko out of the path of a bullet. This reveals to her that it was Hiro, not Kensei, that saved her life earlier and she kisses him. Kensei finds them kissing and feels betrayed. Despite Hiro's insistence that it's a one-time occurrence, Kensei apparently returns to his previous ways and allies himself with White Beard, knocking Hiro out and delivering him to the conqueror in exchange for whatever he wants — he demands half the country and Yaeko as his princess. When Hiro claims that Kensei was supposed to be a hero, Kensei counters by saying that he will be once he conquers Japan, confidently stating that he will \"change history.\"\n\nAfter Yaeko helps to free Hiro, Kensei anticipates Hiro's first move to destroy White Beard's guns. Takezo confronts Hiro as he is spreading gunpowder over the area and attacks him, despite Hiro's pleas that they should work together. Hiro refuses to use his powers to win the duel, and they have a brief battle, during which Kensei knocks over a lamp and starts a fire. As the fire spreads, Hiro knocks Kensei's sword out of his hands, and offers the defeated Kensei a chance to escape. Kensei, driven mad by Yaeko's love for Hiro, claims that he will destroy everything Hiro holds dear (starting with Yaeko) and so Hiro leaves him to die. He finds Kensei's helmet and mask amidst the debris, and returns to Yaeko. She says that it is really he who is the legendary Takezo Kensei. However, Hiro knows that the legend isn't over yet: he must cut out his heart by leaving Yaeko behind. A tearful Yaeko promises to spread his tale. Hiro then leaves, thinking Kensei is dead and history restored.\n\nDue to his regenerative ability, Kensei not only survives the explosion, but is made immortal by the constant regeneration of his cells. At some point between 1671 and the founding of the Company, Takezo Kensei renames himself Adam Monroe, and becomes a British mercenary during the American Revolutionary War. It was not out of loyalty to the British, but simply to \"escape boredom.\" He appears to think of himself as a god. At one point, Adam comes across a town in which the British regiment had been single-handedly slaughtered by a man named Evan, according to a survivor. Intrigued, Adam arrived at the scene to confront the man, and killed him.\n\nHowever, after killing him, an entire army of clones rushes at the regiment and caused them to retreat, leaving Adam behind. He realizes that Evan is a human replicator and pursues him across a number of years, trying to kill the original Evan. Eventually, a number of Evan clones confront and taunt Adam, saying that in numbers there is strength and he is alone and cannot possibly defeat them, and pushes Adam over a cliff into a river. It is at this point, defeated, Adam realized the need for followers.\n\nMonroe creates the Company about three hundred years after his first encounter with Hiro Nakamura. As shown in \"Truth & Consequences\", when the Company began research into the Shanti virus, he attempted to release a highly virulent strain, claiming that something needs to be done about the endless cycle of destruction humanity seems to go through. Adam is locked away by Kaito Nakamura, never to be released again. Victoria Pratt mentions that in order to know as much as he did, he would have needed the help of some of the other founders; Robert Bishop, another founder, mentions that Maury Parkman and Daniel Linderman were among those who believed in his theories of their superiority over humanity.\n\nAs revealed in \"Four Months Ago...\", Adam escapes Company custody with the help of Peter Petrelli, a willing prisoner, by convincing him that the Company has no intention of helping him. Once free, Adam begins assassinating the Company's other founding members, using Maury Parkman as his agent.\n\nIn \"Four Months Later...\", Kaito Nakamura stays on the rooftop of the Deveaux Building expecting that one of the remaining members of the group of twelve, of which he was a part, will try to kill him. A mysterious hooded figure appears. Kaito appears to recognize the individual as a member of that team, saying \"Of all of them, I never expected that it would be you\". Just as Ando, whom Kaito had sent to get him a sword, returns, the figure tackles Kaito and pushes him off the building. When Ando looks down, the figure has disappeared.\n\nIn \"The Line\", Mohinder observes Adam's name written on a folder Bob was carrying. Later, when Bob says that he has big problems and an individual to worry about who could be a real danger, Mohinder brings up Adam's name. Later, Peter and Caitlin find a note (signed \"Adam\") in Montreal addressed to Peter, warning him about the Company.\n\nIn \"Out of Time\", Bob tells Nathan that Adam was the one who suggested the group of twelve come together, and suggested holocausts and plagues to help save the world, claiming that Adam felt he was a god. Nathan notes that Adam's plans sound like Linderman, and Bob tells Nathan that Linderman was his disciple. Later, Peter returns to Montreal and hears a noise. He sends a bolt towards the intruder, but the bolt is blocked by a hand, and it regenerates. Adam walks towards Peter and asks why he fired at him, but Peter tells him he doesn't know who he is. At this, Adam reintroduces himself to Peter.\n\nIn \"Four Months Ago...\", Adam once again befriends a now amnesic Peter Petrelli, helping him to restore his memory through his absorbed regenerative abilities. After gaining back his memory, Peter tells Adam about the effects of the virus in the future and the two set out to destroy it, though Adam's true intentions remain to be seen.\n\nIn \"Truth & Consequences\", Adam leads Peter to Victoria Pratt, the creator of the immensely dangerous \"Strain 138\" that he attempted to release in 1977. Despite her lack of cooperation, Peter's telepathy allows him to retrieve the location of the virus. Adam unties Victoria, but kills her when she aims a shotgun at Peter's head, claiming to have been protecting Peter's life. As Peter walks out of the house, Adam looks at Victoria's lifeless body and says, \"If anyone survives... I'll tell them I couldn't have done it without you\". He dabs some of the blood from his healed chest wound, puts the Helix symbol on a picture of Victoria's face, and drops it on her corpse. The two then travel to Primatech Paper in Texas, where the virus is kept. Hiro intercepts them, freezing time and intending to kill Adam, but Peter remains unfrozen and refuses to let Hiro harm Adam.\n\nIn the final episode of Volume 2, \"Powerless\", Adam and Peter make it to the vault where the virus is kept. While Adam goes to retrieve the virus, Peter is confronted by Nathan and Matt Parkman, who tell him that Adam is using him. Hiro teleports to the vault and confronts Adam. He claims that he \"should have killed him long ago\" before teleporting both of them away. When Ando asks Hiro if he killed Adam, Hiro responds that Adam can never harm anyone again. It is then shown that Adam has been buried alive in a Japanese cemetery near Kaito Nakamura screaming for \"Carp\" to let him out.\n\nSeries creator Tim Kring gave no indication that Adam could escape from his makeshift prison, saying \"the fact that he can live forever makes this the most gruesome of internments.\" However, David Anders suggested that his character would be returning in future episodes.\n\nIn the graphic novel \"The Ten Brides of Takezo Kensei\", Monroe thinks that his new wife will find and rescue him from being buried alive.\n\nIn the third volume, Angela Petrelli has a precognitive dream in which Adam Monroe is seen alongside Maury Parkman, Tracy Strauss, Knox, and Sylar killing the Heroes.\n\nIn the final moments of \"I Am Become Death\", Hiro and Ando dig Adam up in hopes of gaining information on the formula. In the following episode, he is released from his casket prison under the pretense that he will assist Hiro and Ando in retrieving the formula. After arriving at a bar that he claims specializes in hiring superpowered individuals to commit crimes, he goads the bartender into attacking him, and lets Hiro take the blow instead. While Hiro lies unconscious and Ando goes to his aid, he escapes, only to be knocked unconscious himself by Knox in a back alley and taken away in a van on the orders of Arthur Petrelli.\n\nUpon arriving with Knox, Adam discovers that Arthur is still alive, yet paralyzed. Realizing what Arthur wants, a panicked Adam tries to escape but is forced to touch Arthur's hand. Arthur then steals Adam's power of regeneration and heals himself. After having his power drained by Arthur, Adam seems to rapidly age, then crumbles to dust.\n\nWhen Arnold, the time traveller seen at the \"Sullivan Bros. Carnival\" travels back in time on Joseph's command in the graphic novel \"Bloodlines, Part 1\", he comes to \"Coyote Sands\". Seeing it is under construction he realizes he is too early, at which point Adam Monroe, in military attire, knocks him out with shovel. He notes he hasn't seen a time traveler in a long while. In \"Bloodlines, Part 2\", he seems to have befriended an amnesic Arnold, who goes by the name Ernie Crum. Adam says goodbye to him before going; it's hinted that Adam was present during the murder of Coyote Sands' posthumans, as Adam shows up to Arnold with a ruined uniform just after the heavy storm (\"caused by Alice Shaw\") in May, 1961 (\"1961\").\n\nIn the episode \"Pass/Fail\", as Hiro falls into a coma, he experiences a mental trial in which Adam acts as the prosecutor, accusing him of selfishly altering time. Finally, Hiro battles Adam in a sword-fight for his honor, kills Adam and ends up receiving the healing kiss of his mother.\n\nSome of Adam's wives leave him fearful of his power, some he abandons, and two, Angelica and Diane, are the loves of his life and he stays with them for 62 and 20 years, respectively.\n\nAdam Monroe has the power of rapid cellular regeneration, allowing him to heal almost instantly from most injuries. He first displays it in \"Lizards\", where he is shot by three arrows. After the arrows are removed, his wounds heal and he revives. In \"Kindred\", he proceeds to repeatedly injure himself just to make sure it wasn't a trick played on him by Hiro. In the episode \"Out of Time\", he survives a massive gunpowder explosion. When his blood is injected into others, they are also healed.\n\nIn addition to allowing him to heal from any injury, Adam's power has effectively made him immortal. This is explained in the Season 2 episode \"Cautionary Tales\" by Angela Petrelli; his cells have regenerated so many times that they are now dying and regenerating in equilibrium, therefore halting his aging. However, it is also revealed that his power was the only thing keeping him alive; when Arthur Petrelli steals his ability, he crumbles to dust.\n\nIn addition to his regeneration ability and the immortality gained as a result, Adam was quite knowledgeable of and skilled in the use of a sword, and also highly intelligent.\n\n"}
{"id": "85936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85936", "title": "Alaunus", "text": "Alaunus\n\nAlaunus or Alaunius was a Gaulish god of healing and prophecy. His name is known from inscriptions found in Lurs, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence in southern France and in Mannheim in western Germany. In the latter inscription, Alaunus is used as an epithet of Mercury. The name of this deity is also found as a placename both of sites and rivers. Its feminine form Alauna appears in the Roman-era names of Valognes in Normandy, Maryport and Watercrook in Cumbria, Alcester in Warwickshire, Ardoch in Perthshire, and Learchild and the River Aln in Northumberland.\n\nThe etymology of the name remains uncertain. Some connect it with the Proto-Celtic root reconstructed as (\"feed, raise, nurture\"), but Matasović discounts it. Nicolaisen connected the various hydronyms to the unrelated Proto-Indo-European root reconstructed as *\"el-\" or *\"ol-\" meaning \"to flow or stream\". Monaghan posits an unrelated Celtic river goddess Alauna, found in Brittany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3321348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3321348", "title": "Backward masking", "text": "Backward masking\n\nThe concept of backward masking originated in psychoacoustics, referring to temporal masking of quiet sounds that occur moments before a louder sound.\n\nIn cognitive psychology, it is a technique that involves presenting one visual stimulus (a \"mask\" or \"masking stimulus\") immediately after another brief (usually 30 ms) \"target\" visual stimulus resulting in a failure to consciously perceive the first stimulus. It is widely used in psychophysiological studies on fear and phobias that investigate the preattentive nonconscious reactions to fear-relevant stimuli.\n\nIt is unknown how a later stimulus is able to block an earlier one. However, one theory for this phenomenon, known as the \"dual channel interaction\" theory, proposes that a fast signal created by the second stimulus is able to catch up to and overcome a slower signal sent from the first impulse. A similar phenomenon can occur when a masking stimulus precedes a target stimulus rather than follows it: this is known as forward masking. While not consciously perceived, the masked stimulus can nevertheless still have an effect on cognitive processes such as context interpretation. It has been shown that visually masked stimuli can elicit motor responses in simple reaction-time tasks (e.g. Response Priming) independent of their conscious visibility.\n\nIt is a widespread belief that masked stimuli can be used for psychological manipulation (see subliminal messages, psychorama). However, the empirical evidence for subliminal persuasion is limited.\n"}
{"id": "52483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52483999", "title": "Breast tension", "text": "Breast tension\n\nBreast tension is a constellation of symptoms involving the breasts including:\n\n"}
{"id": "37708369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37708369", "title": "Broselow tape", "text": "Broselow tape\n\nThe Broselow Tape, also called the Broselow pediatric emergency tape, is a color-coded length-based tape measure that is used throughout the world for pediatric emergencies. The Broselow Tape relates a child’s height as measured by the tape to his/her weight to provide medical instructions including medication dosages, the size of the equipment that should be used, and the level of shock voltage when using a defibrillator. Particular to children is the need to calculate all these therapies for each child individually. In an emergency the time required to do this detracts from valuable time needed to evaluate, initiate, and monitor patient treatment. The Broselow Tape is designed for children up to approximately 12 years of age who have a maximum weight of roughly 36 kg (80 pounds). The Broselow Tape is recognized in most medical textbooks and publications as a standard for the emergency treatment of children.\n\nTo use the Broselow Tape effectively the child must be lying down. Use one hand to hold the red end of the tape so it is even with the child’s head. (Remember: “red to head”). While maintaining one hand on the red portion at the top of the child’s head, use your free hand to run the tape down the length of the child’s body until it is even with his/her heels (not toes). The tape that is level with the child’s heels will provide his/her approximate weight in kilograms and his/her color zone.\n\nAs the tape is not completely accurate, care is required with its use.\n\nThe Broselow Tape is based on the relationship between weight and length across all ages; each color zone estimates the 50th percentile weight for length, which for practical purposes estimates the ideal body weight (IBW) for emergency dosing. Because of the recent obesity epidemic, concerns have been raised as to the accuracy of the tape to determine acceptable weights and subsequently acceptable doses of emergency medications.\n\nThe most recent version of the Broselow Tape incorporates updated length/weight zones based on the most current National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data set. Utilizing this data set to examine Broselow Tape predictions of actual body weight with the revised zones reveals that approximately 65% of the time the patient’s measured length places them in the correct zone for actual weight. Of the remaining 35%, ~20% fall into the heavier Broselow-Luten zone above and 13% fall into the lighter zone below, with < 1% outliers falling greater than 1 zone from predicted. If the healthcare provider incorporates a visual estimate of body habitus into the prediction, the accuracy of the estimate of actual patient weight is improved as confirmed in multiple studies. Specifically, for drug dosing the patient’s length-based dosing zone can be adjusted up one color zone if the child appears overweight. Thus incorporating a visual estimate of whether the child is over-weight provides a simple method to predict actual patient weight that appears to be clinically relevant given the rise in obesity in the U.S..\n\nAlthough some medications are best dosed by actual body weight (e.g., succinylcholine), most resuscitation medications are distributed in lean body mass (e.g., epinephrine, sodium bicarbonate, calcium, magnesium, etc.) so that IBW as accurately predicted by length, not the actual body weight, would appear preferable for dosing. For most resuscitation medications, the optimal dose is not known and doses based on IBW or actual weight are likely equally effective.\n\nThe PALS guidelines comment on this issue: \"There are no data regarding the safety or efficacy of adjusting the doses of resuscitation medications in obese patients. Therefore, regardless of the patient’s habitus, use the actual body weight for calculating initial resuscitationdrug doses or use a body length tape with pre-calculated doses.\"\n\nStudies on the accuracy of predicting endotracheal tube sizes consistently demonstrate the superiority of length predictions over other methods. Unlike medication dosing, body habitus therefore does not affect the accuracy of the prediction.\n\nMultiple studies have been conducted regarding the effectiveness of the Broselow Tape. Recently, in 2012, a study with 572 enrolled subjects published that paramedic Broselow measurements correlated well with both scale and ED measurements, underscoring its utility in the prehospital setting. In spite of the debates about accuracy in actual weight estimation and its relevance as noted above, the tape still remains the best tool for predicting actual body weight.\n\nThe original Broselow tape was divided into 25 kg zones for medication doses and eight color zones for equipment selection. Subsequent versions of the tape combined dosing and equipment zones such that the eight color zones contained both dosing and equipment information, thus creating a simple visual system for medication and equipment which is used in most hospitals and ambulances.\n\nThe following list identifies which color zones correlate with each estimated weight zone in kilograms (kg) and pounds (lbs).\nEmergency physicians James Broselow and Robert Luten struggled with solving these issues related to the emergency treatment of children in the early 1980s. The result was the invention by Dr. Broselow of a home-made prototype version of the tape in 1985. Dr. Broselow joined with Dr. Luten, an academic physician from the University of Florida and member of the newly formed Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) subcommittee, to do the foundational studies upon which the tape was based and to develop and update the tape over the years.\n\nThe tape provides pre-calculated medication doses effectively eliminating the potential errors associated with pediatric emergent dosing preparation and administration. This benefit has had major implications in recent years given the prevalence and magnitude of medication errors. Medical errors are a greater threat to children than adults because their organs are smaller and still developing. An estimated 35% of pediatric patients are incorrectly dosed by EMS providers. Tenfold mathematical errors due to incorrect calculations are a much greater threat to children than adults. Due to the high level of incorrect calculation errors, alternative pediatric emergency tapes that can be customized have gained popularity. A tenfold adult overdose of a standard adult medication would require multiple syringes and tends, therefore, to be obvious to a caregiver, effectively warning of the error. In contrast, for a small child both a 1x correct dose and a 10x overdose of a drug can be administered in the same syringe thus providing no clue as to a potential error. Furthermore, pediatric emergency care is especially prone to error due to the chaotic nature and stress associated with the emergency setting.\n"}
{"id": "56205187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56205187", "title": "Cannabis in the Central African Republic", "text": "Cannabis in the Central African Republic\n\nCannabis in the Central African Republic is illegal.\n\nDuring the Central African Empire administration (1976–1979), production, possession, or sale of cannabis was illegal.\n"}
{"id": "44476616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44476616", "title": "Carroll William Dodge", "text": "Carroll William Dodge\n\nCarroll William Dodge (January 20, 1895 – July 21, 1988) was an American mycologist and lichenologist.\n\nHis major field of study were human and mammalian parasitic fungus, lichen associated fungus and fungi forming subterranean sporophores.\n\nCarroll William Dodge was born in Danby, Vermont. He started his early education from Burr and Burton Seminaries in Manchester, Vermont. He went to Middlebury College at Vermont to study classical language and there he received his Artium Baccalaureus in 1915 and completed his master's in 1916. During his stay at Middlebury, he came in contact with Edward Angus Burt (1859-1939) who was another mycologist, today known as an authority of terrestrial fungi, Thelephoraceae. Carroll was inspired by Angus Burt and his interest grew in biology and followed Burt to Washington University at St. Louis, Missouri as Lachland Fellow. He was so interested in botany that he left Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University, withdrew his nomination and went to Washington University to complete his doctorate. He did his PhD in plant physiology and biochemistry under Benjamin M. Duggar in 1918.\n\nAfter his PhD, he served in US Army as a specialist in Office of Nutrition, Camp Pevon, Massachusetts during 1918-1919. After one year of service in the US Army, he worked as an associated chemist in Dairy Division of United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).\n\nHe again joined back to academia in 1919 as an instructor in botany at Brown University in Rhode Island and took a class in phycology. There he became Onley Assistant Professor of Botany and finally he entered Harvard in 1921 as an instructor in botany and became assistant professor and Curator of Farlow Library of Herbarium in 1924. He doubled the herbarium collection during his stay in the library by purchasing adding from his own collection. Today, he is considered as one of the important collector of lichen in Farlow Library of Herbarium. During his stay in Harvard, from the mid-1920s he started studying fungal diseases in human and collected a lot of information such that he offered the first course in medical mycology in America. In 1931, he became professor of botany at Washington University. He finally retired in 1963. During his stay in Washington University at St. Louis he visited Latin American Countries; Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Chile and Brazil and taught several courses in medical mycology and lichenology in those countries. His interest in human pathogenic fungi lead to the publication of a very popular book “Medical mycology” in 1935.\n\nAnother area of Dodge’s study is lichenology. He is regarded as American authority of tropical and Antarctic lichens. He mainly focused in taxonomic and floristics of lichen. He developed the keys for lichen identification. His peak period of lichen study was from 1950 to 1960s. He had traveled extensively to study lichen and produced a lot of papers related to lichens of different locations. He has published articles describing the lichens of tropical Africa, Gaspe Peninsula, Venezuela, Brazil, Tonga, Chile, Kerguelen Island, and New Zealand. He was funded by National science museum for his trip to Antarctica in 1961. He studied lichens for several years in Antarctica and published a book ‘Lichen Flora of the Antarctic Continent and Adjacent Islands in 1973.\n\nDodge also studied about subterranean sporophores. Research articles related to Rhizopogonaceae, \"Gauiteria,\" \"Arcangeliella,\" \"Gymnomyces\" and Macromanites, \"Leucogastor\" and \"Leucophlebs\" were found during his early academic life.\n\nCarroll William Dodge died in July 21, 1988 in Vermont.\n\nIn 1931, Dodge was head of the International Association of Plant Taxonomists Section on Lichens and in 1950, he was Vice-President for Medical Mycology of the Rio de Janeiro International Congress of Microbiology.\n\nHis honors include: election to Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, and Gamma Alpha (National Councilor, 1923-1928; National Secretary, 1927); doctorates by the Universidad Nacional de Guatemala (1942) and the Universidad Nacional de Chile (1950); perpetual honorary member of the Societe Linneenne de Lyon, and the American Microscopical Society (and Centennial Award, 1978). He received the medal of the Society of Medical Mycologists of the Americas in 1976.\n\nThe list of Dodge's organizational affiliations includes: American Association for the Advancement of Science, the New England Botanical Club, the Botanical Society of America (chairman of mycology, 1920's), the British Mycological Society, the American Microscopical Society (vice-president, 1938), and the American Phytopathological Society. He also served on the editorial boards of \"Botanical Abstracts, Biological Abstracts,\" and \"Rhodora\".\n\nMore than seventy scholarly articles written by Dodge can be found between 1918 and 1982. Similarly, as many as eighty books written by Dodge can be found. Although most of his books are written in English, some books are in Spanish, French and German.\n\nBesides mycology and biology, Carroll William Dodge was interested in Latin American history and literature. This can be known by his appointment as Harvard University Librarian to purchase literary and historical volumes in many countries he visited. He could read and write in both classical and modern languages. Further, he could give lectures in fluent Spanish and Portuguese. In 1925, Dodge married Bertha Sanford Weiner, who was a daughter of his Russian Professor at Harvard. His wife was also an author of several books in economic botany, popular science and exploration. They had two daughters Anne Caroline Dodge Hooper and Mary Lavina Dodge Cobb, both of whom were musically talented.\n"}
{"id": "56319724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56319724", "title": "Color anomaly", "text": "Color anomaly\n\nColour anomaly, sometimes referred to as partial colour blindness, is an inherited condition in which people have full trichromatic colour vision, but do not make the same colour matches as the majority of the human population. It is much more common than dichromacy or other forms of colour blindness, affecting about 6% of human males in Northern European populations. Two forms are common, known as protanomaly and deuteranomaly. In order to match a given spectral yellow light, protanomalous observers need more red light in a red/green mixture than the majority of observers, and deuteranomalous observers need more green. Tritanomaly, affecting mixtures involving blue, is much less common. Colour anomalies can be measured by an instrument called an anomaloscope, in which coloured lights are mixed in a controlled way; typical demonstration anomaloscopes are set up for measuring the red/green anomalies, but with appropriate choices of colours to mix, tritanomaly can also be measured.\n"}
{"id": "5374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5374", "title": "Condom", "text": "Condom\n\nA condom is a sheath-shaped barrier device, used during sexual intercourse to reduce the probability of pregnancy or a sexually transmitted infection (STI). There are both male and female condoms. With proper use—and use at every act of intercourse—women whose partners use male condoms experience a 2% per-year pregnancy rate. With typical use the rate of pregnancy is 18% per-year. Their use greatly decreases the risk of gonorrhea, chlamydia, trichomoniasis, hepatitis B, and HIV/AIDS. They also to a lesser extent protect against genital herpes, human papillomavirus (HPV), and syphilis.\nThe male condom is rolled onto an erect penis before intercourse and works by blocking semen from entering the body of a sexual partner. Male condoms are typically made from latex and less commonly from polyurethane or lamb intestine. Male condoms have the advantages of ease of use, easy to access, and few side effects. In those with a latex allergy a polyurethane or other synthetic version should be used. Female condoms are typically made from polyurethane and may be used multiple times.\nCondoms as a method of preventing STIs have been used since at least 1564. Rubber condoms become available in 1855, followed by latex condoms in the 1920s. They are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about 0.03 to 0.08 USD each. In the United States condoms usually cost less than 1.00 USD. Globally less than 10% of those using birth control are using the condom. Rates of condom use are higher in the developed world. In United Kingdom the condom is the second most common method of birth control (22%) while in the United States it is the third most common (15%). About six to nine billion are sold a year.\n\nThe effectiveness of condoms, as of most forms of contraception, can be assessed two ways. \"Perfect use\" or \"method\" effectiveness rates only include people who use condoms properly and consistently. \"Actual use\", or \"typical use\" effectiveness rates are of all condom users, including those who use condoms incorrectly or do not use condoms at every act of intercourse. Rates are generally presented for the first year of use. Most commonly the Pearl Index is used to calculate effectiveness rates, but some studies use decrement tables.\n\nThe typical use pregnancy rate among condom users varies depending on the population being studied, ranging from 10 to 18% per year. The perfect use pregnancy rate of condoms is 2% per year. Condoms may be combined with other forms of contraception (such as spermicide) for greater protection.\n\nCondoms are widely recommended for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). They have been shown to be effective in reducing infection rates in both men and women. While not perfect, the condom is effective at reducing the transmission of organisms that cause AIDS, genital herpes, cervical cancer, genital warts, syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and other diseases. Condoms are often recommended as an adjunct to more effective birth control methods (such as IUD) in situations where STD protection is also desired.\n\nAccording to a 2000 report by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), consistent use of latex condoms reduces the risk of HIV/AIDS transmission by approximately 85% relative to risk when unprotected, putting the seroconversion rate (infection rate) at 0.9 per 100 person-years with condom, down from 6.7 per 100 person-years. Analysis published in 2007 from the University of Texas Medical Branch and the World Health Organization found similar risk reductions of 80–95%.\n\nThe 2000 NIH review concluded that condom use significantly reduces the risk of gonorrhea for men. A 2006 study reports that proper condom use decreases the risk of transmission of human papillomavirus (HPV) to women by approximately 70%. Another study in the same year found consistent condom use was effective at reducing transmission of herpes simplex virus-2 also known as genital herpes, in both men and women.\n\nAlthough a condom is effective in limiting exposure, some disease transmission may occur even with a condom. Infectious areas of the genitals, especially when symptoms are present, may not be covered by a condom, and as a result, some diseases like HPV and herpes may be transmitted by direct contact. The primary effectiveness issue with using condoms to prevent STDs, however, is inconsistent use.\n\nCondoms may also be useful in treating potentially precancerous cervical changes. Exposure to human papillomavirus, even in individuals already infected with the virus, appears to increase the risk of precancerous changes. The use of condoms helps promote regression of these changes. In addition, researchers in the UK suggest that a hormone in semen can aggravate existing cervical cancer, condom use during sex can prevent exposure to the hormone.\n\nCondoms may slip off the penis after ejaculation, break due to improper application or physical damage (such as tears caused when opening the package), or break or slip due to latex degradation (typically from usage past the expiration date, improper storage, or exposure to oils). The rate of breakage is between 0.4% and 2.3%, while the rate of slippage is between 0.6% and 1.3%. Even if no breakage or slippage is observed, 1–3% of women will test positive for semen residue after intercourse with a condom.\n\n\"Double bagging\", using two condoms at once, is often believed to cause a higher rate of failure due to the friction of rubber on rubber. This claim is not supported by research. The limited studies that have been done found that the simultaneous use of multiple condoms decreases the risk of condom breakage.\n\nDifferent modes of condom failure result in different levels of semen exposure. If a failure occurs during application, the damaged condom may be disposed of and a new condom applied before intercourse begins – such failures generally pose no risk to the user. One study found that semen exposure from a broken condom was about half that of unprotected intercourse; semen exposure from a slipped condom was about one-fifth that of unprotected intercourse.\n\nStandard condoms will fit almost any penis, with varying degrees of comfort or risk of slippage. Many condom manufacturers offer \"snug\" or \"magnum\" sizes. Some manufacturers also offer custom sized-to-fit condoms, with claims that they are more reliable and offer improved sensation/comfort. Some studies have associated larger penises and smaller condoms with increased breakage and decreased slippage rates (and vice versa), but other studies have been inconclusive.\n\nIt is recommended for condoms manufacturers to avoid very thick or very thin condoms, because they are both considered less effective. Some authors encourage users to choose thinner condoms \"for greater durability, sensation, and comfort\", but others warn that \"the thinner the condom, the smaller the force required to break it\".\n\nExperienced condom users are significantly less likely to have a condom slip or break compared to first-time users, although users who experience one slippage or breakage are more likely to suffer a second such failure. An article in \"Population Reports\" suggests that education on condom use reduces behaviors that increase the risk of breakage and slippage. A Family Health International publication also offers the view that education can reduce the risk of breakage and slippage, but emphasizes that more research needs to be done to determine all of the causes of breakage and slippage.\n\nAmong people who intend condoms to be their form of birth control, pregnancy may occur when the user has sex without a condom. The person may have run out of condoms, or be traveling and not have a condom with them, or simply dislike the feel of condoms and decide to \"take a chance\". This type of behavior is the primary cause of typical use failure (as opposed to method or perfect use failure).\n\nAnother possible cause of condom failure is sabotage. One motive is to have a child against a partner's wishes or consent. Some commercial sex workers from Nigeria reported clients sabotaging condoms in retaliation for being coerced into condom use. Using a fine needle to make several pinholes at the tip of the condom is believed to significantly impact on their effectiveness. Cases of such condom sabotage have occurred.\n\nThe use of latex condoms by people with an allergy to latex can cause allergic symptoms, such as skin irritation. In people with severe latex allergies, using a latex condom can potentially be life-threatening. Repeated use of latex condoms can also cause the development of a latex allergy in some people. Irritation may also occur due to spermicides that may be present.\n\nMale condoms are usually packaged inside a foil or plastic wrapper, in a rolled-up form, and are designed to be applied to the tip of the penis and then unrolled over the erect penis. It is important that some space be left in the tip of the condom so that semen has a place to collect; otherwise it may be forced out of the base of the device. Most condoms have a teat end for this purpose. After use, it is recommended the condom be wrapped in tissue or tied in a knot, then disposed of in a trash receptacle. Condoms are used to reduce the likelihood of pregnancy during intercourse and to reduce the likelihood of contracting sexually-transmitted infections (STIs). Condoms are also used during fellatio to reduce the likelihood of contracting STIs.\n\nSome couples find that putting on a condom interrupts sex, although others incorporate condom application as part of their foreplay. Some men and women find the physical barrier of a condom dulls sensation. Advantages of dulled sensation can include prolonged erection and delayed ejaculation; disadvantages might include a loss of some sexual excitement. Advocates of condom use also cite their advantages of being inexpensive, easy to use, and having few side effects.\n\nIn 2012 proponents gathered 372,000 voter signatures through a citizens' initiative in Los Angeles County to put Measure B on the 2012 ballot. As a result, Measure B, a law requiring the use of condoms in the production of pornographic films, was passed. This requirement has received much criticism and is said by some to be counter-productive, merely forcing companies that make pornographic films to relocate to other places without this requirement. Producers claim that condom use depresses sales.\n\nCondoms are often used in sex education programs, because they have the capability to reduce the chances of pregnancy and the spread of some sexually transmitted diseases when used correctly. A recent American Psychological Association (APA) press release supported the inclusion of information about condoms in sex education, saying \"\"comprehensive sexuality education programs... discuss the appropriate use of condoms\", and \"promote condom use for those who are sexually active\".\"\n\nIn the United States, teaching about condoms in public schools is opposed by some religious organizations. Planned Parenthood, which advocates family planning and sex education, argues that no studies have shown abstinence-only programs to result in delayed intercourse, and cites surveys showing that 76% of American parents want their children to receive comprehensive sexuality education including condom use.\n\nCommon procedures in infertility treatment such as semen analysis and intrauterine insemination (IUI) require collection of semen samples. These are most commonly obtained through masturbation, but an alternative to masturbation is use of a special \"collection condom\" to collect semen during sexual intercourse.\n\nCollection condoms are made from silicone or polyurethane, as latex is somewhat harmful to sperm. Many men prefer collection condoms to masturbation, and some religions prohibit masturbation entirely. Also, compared with samples obtained from masturbation, semen samples from collection condoms have higher total sperm counts, sperm motility, and percentage of sperm with normal morphology. For this reason, they are believed to give more accurate results when used for semen analysis, and to improve the chances of pregnancy when used in procedures such as intracervical or intrauterine insemination. Adherents of religions that prohibit contraception, such as Catholicism, may use collection condoms with holes pricked in them.\n\nFor fertility treatments, a collection condom may be used to collect semen during sexual intercourse where the semen is provided by the woman's partner. Private sperm donors may also use a collection condom to obtain samples through masturbation or by sexual intercourse with a partner and will transfer the ejaculate from the collection condom to a specially designed container. The sperm is transported in such containers, in the case of a donor, to a recipient woman to be used for insemination, and in the case of a woman's partner, to a fertility clinic for processing and use. However, transportation may reduce the fecundity of the sperm. Collection condoms may also be used where semen is produced at a sperm bank or fertility clinic.\n\n\"Condom therapy\" is sometimes prescribed to infertile couples when the female has high levels of antisperm antibodies. The theory is that preventing exposure to her partner's semen will lower her level of antisperm antibodies, and thus increase her chances of pregnancy when condom therapy is discontinued. However, condom therapy has not been shown to increase subsequent pregnancy rates.\n\nCondoms excel as multipurpose containers and barriers because they are waterproof, elastic, durable, and (for military and espionage uses) will not arouse suspicion if found.\n\nOngoing military utilization began during World War II, and includes covering the muzzles of rifle barrels to prevent fouling, the waterproofing of firing assemblies in underwater demolitions, and storage of corrosive materials and garrotes by paramilitary agencies.\n\nCondoms have also been used to smuggle alcohol, cocaine, heroin, and other drugs across borders and into prisons by filling the condom with drugs, tying it in a knot and then either swallowing it or inserting it into the rectum. These methods are very dangerous and potentially lethal; if the condom breaks, the drugs inside become absorbed into the bloodstream and can cause an overdose.\n\nMedically, condoms can be used to cover endovaginal ultrasound probes, or in field chest needle decompressions they can be used to make a one-way valve.\n\nCondoms have also been used to protect scientific samples from the environment, and to waterproof microphones for underwater recording.\n\nMost condoms have a reservoir tip or teat end, making it easier to accommodate the man's ejaculate. Condoms come in different sizes, from snug to larger, and shapes. Width often varies from 49 mm to 56 mm. Sizes from 45 mm to 60 mm, however exist.\n\nThey also come in a variety of surfaces intended to stimulate the user's partner. Condoms are usually supplied with a lubricant coating to facilitate penetration, while flavored condoms are principally used for oral sex. As mentioned above, most condoms are made of latex, but polyurethane and lambskin condoms also exist.\n\nMale condoms have a tight ring to form a seal around the penis while female condoms usually have a large stiff ring to prevent them from slipping into the body orifice. The Female Health Company produced a female condom that was initially made of polyurethane, but newer versions are made of nitrile. Medtech Products produces a female condom made of latex.\n\nLatex has outstanding elastic properties: Its tensile strength exceeds 30 MPa, and latex condoms may be stretched in excess of 800% before breaking. In 1990 the ISO set standards for condom production (ISO 4074, Natural latex rubber condoms), and the EU followed suit with its CEN standard (Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices). Every latex condom is tested for holes with an electric current. If the condom passes, it is rolled and packaged. In addition, a portion of each batch of condoms is subject to water leak and air burst testing.\n\nWhile the advantages of latex have made it the most popular condom material, it does have some drawbacks. Latex condoms are damaged when used with oil-based substances as lubricants, such as petroleum jelly, cooking oil, baby oil, mineral oil, skin lotions, suntan lotions, cold creams, butter or margarine. Contact with oil makes latex condoms more likely to break or slip off due to loss of elasticity caused by the oils. Additionally, latex allergy precludes use of latex condoms and is one of the principal reasons for the use of other materials. In May 2009 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted approval for the production of condoms composed of Vytex, latex that has been treated to remove 90% of the proteins responsible for allergic reactions. An allergen-free condom made of synthetic latex (polyisoprene) is also available.\n\nThe most common non-latex condoms are made from polyurethane. Condoms may also be made from other synthetic materials, such as AT-10 resin, and most recently polyisoprene.\n\nPolyurethane condoms tend to be the same width and thickness as latex condoms, with most polyurethane condoms between 0.04 mm and 0.07 mm thick.\n\nPolyurethane can be considered better than latex in several ways: it conducts heat better than latex, is not as sensitive to temperature and ultraviolet light (and so has less rigid storage requirements and a longer shelf life), can be used with oil-based lubricants, is less allergenic than latex, and does not have an odor. Polyurethane condoms have gained FDA approval for sale in the United States as an effective method of contraception and HIV prevention, and under laboratory conditions have been shown to be just as effective as latex for these purposes.\n\nHowever, polyurethane condoms are less elastic than latex ones, and may be more likely to slip or break than latex, lose their shape or bunch up more than latex, and are more expensive.\n\nPolyisoprene is a synthetic version of natural rubber latex. While significantly more expensive, it has the advantages of latex (such as being softer and more elastic than polyurethane condoms) without the protein which is responsible for latex allergies. Like polyurethane condoms, polyisoprene condoms are said to do a better job of transmitting body heat. Unlike polyurethane condoms, they cannot be used with an oil-based lubricant.\n\nCondoms made from sheep intestines, labeled \"lambskin\", are also available. Although they are generally effective as a contraceptive by blocking sperm, it is presumed that they are likely less effective than latex in preventing the transmission of agents that cause STDs, because of pores in the material. This is based on the idea that intestines, by their nature, are porous, permeable membranes, and while sperm are too large to pass through the pores, viruses—such as HIV, herpes, and genital warts—are small enough to pass through. However, there are to date no clinical data confirming or denying this theory. Some believe that lambskin condoms provide a more \"natural\" sensation, and they lack the allergens that are inherent to latex, but because of their lesser protection against infection, other hypoallergenic materials such as polyurethane are recommended for latex-allergic users and/or partners. Lambskin condoms are also significantly more expensive than other types and as slaughter by-products they are also not vegetarian.\n\nSome latex condoms are lubricated at the manufacturer with a small amount of a nonoxynol-9, a spermicidal chemical. According to Consumer Reports, condoms lubricated with spermicide have no additional benefit in preventing pregnancy, have a shorter shelf life, and may cause urinary-tract infections in women. In contrast, application of separately packaged spermicide \"is\" believed to increase the contraceptive efficacy of condoms.\n\nNonoxynol-9 was once believed to offer additional protection against STDs (including HIV) but recent studies have shown that, with frequent use, nonoxynol-9 may increase the risk of HIV transmission. The World Health Organization says that spermicidally lubricated condoms should no longer be promoted. However, it recommends using a nonoxynol-9 lubricated condom over no condom at all. , nine condom manufacturers have stopped manufacturing condoms with nonoxynol-9 and Planned Parenthood has discontinued the distribution of condoms so lubricated.\n\nTextured condoms include studded and ribbed condoms which can provide extra sensations to both partners. The studs or ribs can be located on the inside, outside, or both; alternatively, they are located in specific sections to provide directed stimulation to either the g-spot or frenulum. Many textured condoms which advertise \"mutual pleasure\" also are bulb-shaped at the top, to provide extra stimulation to the penis. Some women experience irritation during vaginal intercourse with studded condoms.\n\nThe anti-rape condom is another variation designed to be worn by women. It is designed to cause pain to the attacker, hopefully allowing the victim a chance to escape.\n\nA collection condom is used to collect semen for fertility treatments or sperm analysis. These condoms are designed to maximize sperm life.\n\nSome condom-like devices are intended for entertainment only, such as glow-in-the dark condoms. These novelty condoms may not provide protection against pregnancy and STDs.\n\nThe prevalence of condom use varies greatly between countries. Most surveys of contraceptive use are among married women, or women in informal unions. Japan has the highest rate of condom usage in the world: in that country, condoms account for almost 80% of contraceptive use by married women. On average, in developed countries, condoms are the most popular method of birth control: 28% of married contraceptive users rely on condoms. In the average less-developed country, condoms are less common: only 6–8% of married contraceptive users choose condoms.\n\nWhether condoms were used in ancient civilizations is debated by archaeologists and historians. In ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome, pregnancy prevention was generally seen as a woman's responsibility, and the only well documented contraception methods were female-controlled devices. In Asia before the 15th century, some use of glans condoms (devices covering only the head of the penis) is recorded. Condoms seem to have been used for contraception, and to have been known only by members of the upper classes. In China, glans condoms may have been made of oiled silk paper, or of lamb intestines. In Japan, they were made of tortoise shell or animal horn.\n\nIn 16th-century Italy, anatomist and physician Gabriele Falloppio wrote a treatise on syphilis. The earliest documented strain of syphilis, first appearing in Europe in a 1490s outbreak, caused severe symptoms and often death within a few months of contracting the disease. Falloppio's treatise is the earliest uncontested description of condom use: it describes linen sheaths soaked in a chemical solution and allowed to dry before use. The cloths he described were sized to cover the glans of the penis, and were held on with a ribbon. Falloppio claimed that an experimental trial of the linen sheath demonstrated protection against syphilis.\n\nAfter this, the use of penis coverings to protect from disease is described in a wide variety of literature throughout Europe. The first indication that these devices were used for birth control, rather than disease prevention, is the 1605 theological publication \"De iustitia et iure\" (On justice and law) by Catholic theologian Leonardus Lessius, who condemned them as immoral. In 1666, the English Birth Rate Commission attributed a recent downward fertility rate to use of \"condons\", the first documented use of that word (or any similar spelling). (Other early spellings include \"condam\" and \"quondam\", from which the Italian derivation \"guantone\" has been suggested, from \"guanto\", \"a glove.\")\nIn addition to linen, condoms during the Renaissance were made out of intestines and bladder. In the late 16th century, Dutch traders introduced condoms made from \"fine leather\" to Japan. Unlike the horn condoms used previously, these leather condoms covered the entire penis.\nCasanova in the 18th century was one of the first reported using \"assurance caps\" to prevent impregnating his mistresses.\n\nFrom at least the 18th century, condom use was opposed in some legal, religious, and medical circles for essentially the same reasons that are given today: condoms reduce the likelihood of pregnancy, which some thought immoral or undesirable for the nation; they do not provide full protection against sexually transmitted infections, while belief in their protective powers was thought to encourage sexual promiscuity; and, they are not used consistently due to inconvenience, expense, or loss of sensation.\n\nDespite some opposition, the condom market grew rapidly. In the 18th century, condoms were available in a variety of qualities and sizes, made from either linen treated with chemicals, or \"skin\" (bladder or intestine softened by treatment with sulfur and lye). They were sold at pubs, barbershops, chemist shops, open-air markets, and at the theater throughout Europe and Russia. They later spread to America, although in every place there were generally used only by the middle and upper classes, due to both expense and lack of sex education.\n\nThe early 19th century saw contraceptives promoted to the poorer classes for the first time. Writers on contraception tended to prefer other methods of birth control to the condom. By the late 19th century many feminists expressed distrust of the condom as a contraceptive, as its use was controlled and decided upon by men alone. They advocated instead for methods which were controlled by women, such as diaphragms and spermicidal douches. Other writers cited both the expense of condoms and their unreliability (they were often riddled with holes, and often fell off or broke), but they discussed condoms as a good option for some, and as the only contraceptive that also protected from disease.\n\nMany countries passed laws impeding the manufacture and promotion of contraceptives. In spite of these restrictions, condoms were promoted by traveling lecturers and in newspaper advertisements, using euphemisms in places where such ads were illegal. Instructions on how to make condoms at home were distributed in the United States and Europe. Despite social and legal opposition, at the end of the 19th century the condom was the Western world's most popular birth control method.\nBeginning in the second half of the 19th century, American rates of sexually transmitted diseases skyrocketed. Causes cited by historians include effects of the American Civil War, and the ignorance of prevention methods promoted by the Comstock laws. To fight the growing epidemic, sex education classes were introduced to public schools for the first time, teaching about venereal diseases and how they were transmitted. They generally taught that abstinence was the only way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases. Condoms were not promoted for disease prevention because the medical community and moral watchdogs considered STDs to be punishment for sexual misbehavior. The stigma against victims of these diseases was so great that many hospitals refused to treat people who had syphilis.\nThe German military was the first to promote condom use among its soldiers, beginning in the later 19th century. Early 20th century experiments by the American military concluded that providing condoms to soldiers significantly lowered rates of sexually transmitted diseases. During World War I, the United States and (at the beginning of the war only) Britain were the only countries with soldiers in Europe who did not provide condoms and promote their use.\n\nIn the decades after World War I, there remained social and legal obstacles to condom use throughout the U.S. and Europe. Founder of psychoanalysis Sigmund Freud opposed all methods of birth control on the grounds that their failure rates were too high. Freud was especially opposed to the condom because he thought it cut down on sexual pleasure. Some feminists continued to oppose male-controlled contraceptives such as condoms. In 1920 the Church of England's Lambeth Conference condemned all \"unnatural means of conception avoidance\". London's Bishop Arthur Winnington-Ingram complained of the huge number of condoms discarded in alleyways and parks, especially after weekends and holidays.\n\nHowever, European militaries continued to provide condoms to their members for disease protection, even in countries where they were illegal for the general population. Through the 1920s, catchy names and slick packaging became an increasingly important marketing technique for many consumer items, including condoms and cigarettes. Quality testing became more common, involving filling each condom with air followed by one of several methods intended to detect loss of pressure. Worldwide, condom sales doubled in the 1920s.\n\nIn 1839, Charles Goodyear discovered a way of processing natural rubber, which is too stiff when cold and too soft when warm, in such a way as to make it elastic. This proved to have advantages for the manufacture of condoms; unlike the sheep's gut condoms, they could stretch and did not tear quickly when used. The rubber vulcanization process was patented by Goodyear in 1844. The first rubber condom was produced in 1855. The earliest rubber condoms had a seam and were as thick as a bicycle inner tube. Besides this type, small rubber condoms covering only the glans were often used in England and the United States. There was more risk of losing them and if the rubber ring was too tight, it would constrict the penis. This type of condom was the original \"capote\" (French for condom), perhaps because of its resemblance to a woman's bonnet worn at that time, also called a capote.\n\nFor many decades, rubber condoms were manufactured by wrapping strips of raw rubber around penis-shaped molds, then dipping the wrapped molds in a chemical solution to cure the rubber. In 1912, Polish inventor Julius Fromm developed a new, improved manufacturing technique for condoms: dipping glass molds into a raw rubber solution. Called \"cement dipping\", this method required adding gasoline or benzene to the rubber to make it liquid. Latex, rubber suspended in water, was invented in 1920. Latex condoms required less labor to produce than cement-dipped rubber condoms, which had to be smoothed by rubbing and trimming. The use of water to suspend the rubber instead of gasoline and benzene eliminated the fire hazard previously associated with all condom factories. Latex condoms also performed better for the consumer: they were stronger and thinner than rubber condoms, and had a shelf life of five years (compared to three months for rubber).\n\nUntil the twenties, all condoms were individually hand-dipped by semi-skilled workers. Throughout the decade of the 1920s, advances in the automation of the condom assembly line were made. The first fully automated line was patented in 1930. Major condom manufacturers bought or leased conveyor systems, and small manufacturers were driven out of business. The skin condom, now significantly more expensive than the latex variety, became restricted to a niche high-end market.\n\nIn 1930 the Anglican Church's sanctioned the use of birth control by married couples. In 1931 the Federal Council of Churches in the U.S. issued a similar statement. The Roman Catholic Church responded by issuing the encyclical \"Casti connubii\" affirming its opposition to all contraceptives, a stance it has never reversed. In the 1930s, legal restrictions on condoms began to be relaxed. But during this period Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany increased restrictions on condoms (limited sales as disease preventatives were still allowed). During the Depression, condom lines by Schmid gained in popularity. Schmid still used the cement-dipping method of manufacture which had two advantages over the latex variety. Firstly, cement-dipped condoms could be safely used with oil-based lubricants. Secondly, while less comfortable, these older-style rubber condoms could be reused and so were more economical, a valued feature in hard times. More attention was brought to quality issues in the 1930s, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration began to regulate the quality of condoms sold in the United States.\n\nThroughout World War II, condoms were not only distributed to male U.S. military members, but also heavily promoted with films, posters, and lectures. European and Asian militaries on both sides of the conflict also provided condoms to their troops throughout the war, even Germany which outlawed all civilian use of condoms in 1941. In part because condoms were readily available, soldiers found a number of non-sexual uses for the devices, many of which continue to this day. After the war, condom sales continued to grow. From 1955–1965, 42% of Americans of reproductive age relied on condoms for birth control. In Britain from 1950–1960, 60% of married couples used condoms. The birth control pill became the world's most popular method of birth control in the years after its 1960 début, but condoms remained a strong second. The U.S. Agency for International Development pushed condom use in developing countries to help solve the \"world population crises\": by 1970 hundreds of millions of condoms were being used each year in India alone.(This number has grown in recent decades: in 2004, the government of India purchased 1.9 billion condoms for distribution at family planning clinics.)\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s quality regulations tightened, and more legal barriers to condom use were removed. In Ireland, legal condom sales were allowed for the first time in 1978. Advertising, however was one area that continued to have legal restrictions. In the late 1950s, the American National Association of Broadcasters banned condom advertisements from national television: this policy remained in place until 1979.\n\nAfter learning in the early 1980s that AIDS can be a sexually transmitted infection, the use of condoms was encouraged to prevent transmission of HIV. Despite opposition by some political, religious, and other figures, national condom promotion campaigns occurred in the U.S. and Europe. These campaigns increased condom use significantly.\n\nDue to increased demand and greater social acceptance, condoms began to be sold in a wider variety of retail outlets, including in supermarkets and in discount department stores such as Wal-Mart. Condom sales increased every year until 1994, when media attention to the AIDS pandemic began to decline. The phenomenon of decreasing use of condoms as disease preventatives has been called \"prevention fatigue\" or \"condom fatigue\". Observers have cited condom fatigue in both Europe and North America. As one response, manufacturers have changed the tone of their advertisements from scary to humorous.\n\nNew developments continued to occur in the condom market, with the first polyurethane condom—branded Avanti and produced by the manufacturer of Durex—introduced in the 1990s. Worldwide condom use is expected to continue to grow: one study predicted that developing nations would need 18.6 billion condoms by 2015. , condoms are available inside prisons in Canada, most of the European Union, Australia, Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa, and the US states of Vermont (on September 17, 2013, the Californian Senate approved a bill for condom distribution inside the state's prisons, but the bill was not yet law at the time of approval).\n\nThe term \"condom\" first appears in the early 18th century. Its etymology is unknown.\nIn popular tradition, the invention and naming of the condom came to be attributed to an associate of England's King Charles II, one \"Dr. Condom\" or \"Earl of Condom\". There is however no evidence of the existence of such a person, and condoms had been used for over one hundred years before King Charles II ascended to the throne.\n\nA variety of unproven Latin etymologies have been proposed, including \"condon\" (receptacle), \"condamina\" (house), and \"cumdum\" (scabbard or case). It has also been speculated to be from the Italian word \"guantone\", derived from \"guanto\", meaning glove. William E. Kruck wrote an article in 1981 concluding that, \"As for the word 'condom', I need state only that its origin remains completely unknown, and there ends this search for an etymology.\" Modern dictionaries may also list the etymology as \"unknown\".\nOther terms are also commonly used to describe condoms. In North America condoms are also commonly known as \"prophylactics\", or \"rubbers\". In Britain they may be called \"French letters\". Additionally, condoms may be referred to using the manufacturer's name.\n\nSome moral and scientific criticism of condoms exists despite the many benefits of condoms agreed on by scientific consensus and sexual health experts.\n\nCondom usage is typically recommended for new couples who have yet to develop full trust in their partner with regard to STDs. Established couples on the other hand have few concerns about STDs, and can use other methods of birth control such as the pill, which does not act as a barrier to intimate sexual contact. Note that the polar debate with regard to condom usage is attenuated by the target group the argument is directed. Notably the age category and stable partner question are factors, as well as the distinction between heterosexual and homosexuals, who have different kinds of sex and have different risk consequences and factors.\n\nAmong the prime objections to condom usage is the blocking of erotic sensation, or the intimacy that barrier-free sex provides. As the condom is held tightly to the skin of the penis, it diminishes the delivery of stimulation through rubbing and friction. Condom proponents claim this has the benefit of making sex last longer, by diminishing sensation and delaying male ejaculation. Those who promote condom-free heterosexual sex (slang: \"bareback\") claim that the condom puts a prophylactic barrier between partners, diminishing what is normally a highly sensual, intimate, and spiritual connection between partners.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church opposes all kinds of sexual acts outside of marriage, as well as any sexual act in which the chance of successful conception has been reduced by direct and intentional acts (for example, surgery to prevent conception) or foreign objects (for example, condoms).\n\nThe use of condoms to prevent STI transmission is not specifically addressed by Catholic doctrine, and is currently a topic of debate among theologians and high-ranking Catholic authorities. A few, such as Belgian Cardinal Godfried Danneels, believe the Catholic Church should actively support condoms used to prevent disease, especially serious diseases such as AIDS. However, the majority view—including all statements from the Vatican—is that condom-promotion programs encourage promiscuity, thereby actually increasing STI transmission. This view was most recently reiterated in 2009 by Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church is the largest organized body of any world religion. The church has hundreds of programs dedicated to fighting the AIDS epidemic in Africa, but its opposition to condom use in these programs has been highly controversial.\n\nIn a November 2011 interview, Pope Benedict XVI discussed for the first time the use of condoms to prevent STI transmission. He said that the use of a condom can be justified in a few individual cases if the purpose is to reduce the risk of an HIV infection. He gave as an example male prostitutes. There was some confusion at first whether the statement applied only to homosexual prostitutes and thus not to heterosexual intercourse at all. However, Federico Lombardi, spokesman for the Vatican, clarified that it applied to heterosexual and transsexual prostitutes, whether male or female, as well. He did, however, also clarify that the Vatican's principles on sexuality and contraception had not been changed.\n\nMore generally, some scientific researchers have expressed objective concern over certain ingredients sometimes added to condoms, notably talc and nitrosamines. Dry dusting powders are applied to latex condoms before packaging to prevent the condom from sticking to itself when rolled up. Previously, talc was used by most manufacturers, but cornstarch is currently the most popular dusting powder. Talc is known to be toxic if it enters the abdominal cavity (i.e., via the vagina). Cornstarch is generally believed to be safe; however, some researchers have raised concerns over its use as well.\n\nNitrosamines, which are potentially carcinogenic in humans, are believed to be present in a substance used to improve elasticity in latex condoms. A 2001 review stated that humans regularly receive 1,000 to 10,000 times greater nitrosamine exposure from food and tobacco than from condom use and concluded that the risk of cancer from condom use is very low. However, a 2004 study in Germany detected nitrosamines in 29 out of 32 condom brands tested, and concluded that exposure from condoms might exceed the exposure from food by 1.5- to 3-fold.\n\nIn addition, the large-scale use of disposable condoms has resulted in concerns over their environmental impact via littering and in landfills, where they can eventually wind up in wildlife environments if not incinerated or otherwise permanently disposed of first. Polyurethane condoms in particular, given they are a form of plastic, are not biodegradable, and latex condoms take a very long time to break down. Experts, such as AVERT, recommend condoms be disposed of in a garbage receptacle, as flushing them down the toilet (which some people do) may cause plumbing blockages and other problems. Furthermore, the plastic and foil wrappers condoms are packaged in are also not biodegradable. However, the benefits condoms offer are widely considered to offset their small landfill mass. Frequent condom or wrapper disposal in public areas such as a parks have been seen as a persistent litter problem.\n\nWhile biodegradable, latex condoms damage the environment when disposed of improperly. According to the Ocean Conservancy, condoms, along with certain other types of trash, cover the coral reefs and smother sea grass and other bottom dwellers. The United States Environmental Protection Agency also has expressed concerns that many animals might mistake the litter for food.\n\nIn much of the Western world, the introduction of the pill in the 1960s was associated with a decline in condom use. In Japan, oral contraceptives were not approved for use until September 1999, and even then access was more restricted than in other industrialized nations. Perhaps because of this restricted access to hormonal contraception, Japan has the highest rate of condom usage in the world: in 2008, 80% of contraceptive users relied on condoms.\n\nCultural attitudes toward gender roles, contraception, and sexual activity vary greatly around the world, and range from extremely conservative to extremely liberal. But in places where condoms are misunderstood, mischaracterised, demonised, or looked upon with overall cultural disapproval, the prevalence of condom use is directly affected. In less-developed countries and among less-educated populations, misperceptions about how disease transmission and conception work negatively affect the use of condoms; additionally, in cultures with more traditional gender roles, women may feel uncomfortable demanding that their partners use condoms.\n\nAs an example, Latino immigrants in the United States often face cultural barriers to condom use. A study on female HIV prevention published in the \"Journal of Sex Health Research\" asserts that Latino women often lack the attitudes needed to negotiate safe sex due to traditional gender-role norms in the Latino community, and may be afraid to bring up the subject of condom use with their partners. Women who participated in the study often reported that because of the general machismo subtly encouraged in Latino culture, their male partners would be angry or possibly violent at the woman's suggestion that they use condoms. A similar phenomenon has been noted in a survey of low-income American black women; the women in this study also reported a fear of violence at the suggestion to their male partners that condoms be used.\n\nA telephone survey conducted by Rand Corporation and Oregon State University, and published in the \"Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes\" showed that belief in AIDS conspiracy theories among United States black men is linked to rates of condom use. As conspiracy beliefs about AIDS grow in a given sector of these black men, consistent condom use drops in that same sector. Female use of condoms was not similarly affected.\n\nIn the African continent, condom promotion in some areas has been impeded by anti-condom campaigns by some Muslim and Catholic clerics. Among the Maasai in Tanzania, condom use is hampered by an aversion to \"wasting\" sperm, which is given sociocultural importance beyond reproduction. Sperm is believed to be an \"elixir\" to women and to have beneficial health effects. Maasai women believe that, after conceiving a child, they must have sexual intercourse repeatedly so that the additional sperm aids the child's development. Frequent condom use is also considered by some Maasai to cause impotence. Some women in Africa believe that condoms are \"for prostitutes\" and that respectable women should not use them. A few clerics even promote the idea that condoms are deliberately laced with HIV. In the United States, possession of many condoms has been used by police to accuse women of engaging in prostitution. The Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS has condemned this practice and there are efforts to end it.\n\nIn March 2013, technology mogul Bill Gates offered a US$100,000 grant through his foundation for a condom design that \"significantly preserves or enhances pleasure\" to encourage more males to adopt the use of condoms for safer sex. The grant information states: \"The primary drawback from the male perspective is that condoms decrease pleasure as compared to no condom, creating a trade-off that many men find unacceptable, particularly given that the decisions about use must be made just prior to intercourse. Is it possible to develop a product without this stigma, or better, one that is felt to enhance pleasure?\". The project has been named the \"Next Generation Condom\" and anyone who can provide a \"testable hypothesis\" is eligible to apply.\n\nMiddle-Eastern couples who have not had children, because of the strong desire and social pressure to establish fertility as soon as possible within marriage, rarely use condoms.\n\nIn 2017, India restricted TV advertisements for condoms to between the hours of 10PM to 6AM. Family planning advocates were against this, saying it was liable to \"undo decades of progress on sexual and reproductive health\".\n\nOne analyst described the size of the condom market as something that \"boggles the mind\". Numerous small manufacturers, nonprofit groups, and government-run manufacturing plants exist around the world. Within the condom market, there are several major contributors, among them both for-profit businesses and philanthropic organizations. Most large manufacturers have ties to the business that reach back to the end of the 19th century.\n\nA spray-on condom made of latex is intended to be easier to apply and more successful in preventing the transmission of diseases. , the spray-on condom was not going to market because the drying time could not be reduced below two to three minutes.\n\nThe Invisible Condom, developed at Université Laval in Quebec, Canada, is a gel that hardens upon increased temperature after insertion into the vagina or rectum. In the lab, it has been shown to effectively block HIV and herpes simplex virus. The barrier breaks down and liquefies after several hours. , the invisible condom is in the clinical trial phase, and has not yet been approved for use.\n\nAlso developed in 2005 is a condom treated with an erectogenic compound. The drug-treated condom is intended to help the wearer maintain his erection, which should also help reduce slippage. If approved, the condom would be marketed under the Durex brand. , it was still in clinical trials. In 2009, Ansell Healthcare, the makers of Lifestyle condoms, introduced the X2 condom lubricated with \"Excite Gel\" which contains the amino acid l-arginine and is intended to improve the strength of the erectile response.\n\n"}
{"id": "4332018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4332018", "title": "EUROCAT (medicine)", "text": "EUROCAT (medicine)\n\nEUROCAT is a European organization that describes itself as \"a network of population-based registries for the epidemiological surveillance of congenital anomalies, covering 1.5 million births in 20 countries of Europe\".\n\nThey were founded in 1979, with the goal of improving the collection of data about congenital disorders, and the standardization of that data.\n\nThey have published extensions to , which helps to provide unique codes for individual conditions.\n\n, approximately a quarter of new births in the European Union are reported to EUROCAT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17601160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17601160", "title": "Economic epidemiology", "text": "Economic epidemiology\n\nEconomic epidemiology is a field at the intersection of epidemiology and economics. Its premise is to incorporate incentives for healthy behavior and their attendant behavioral responses into an epidemiological context to better understand how diseases are transmitted. This framework should help improve policy responses to epidemic diseases by giving policymakers and health-care providers clear tools for thinking about how certain actions can influence the spread of disease transmission.\n\nThe main context through which this field emerged was the idea of prevalence-dependence, or disinhibition, which suggests that individuals change their behavior as the prevalence of a disease changes. However, economic epidemiology also encompasses other ideas, including the role of externalities, global disease commons and how individuals’ incentives can influence the outcome and cost of health interventions.\n\nStrategic epidemiology is a branch of economic epidemiology that adopts an explicitly game theoretic approach to analyzing the interplay between individual behavior and population wide disease dynamics.\n\nThe spread of an infectious disease is a population-level phenomenon, but decisions to prevent or treat a disease are typically made by individuals who may change their behavior over the course of an epidemic, especially if their perception of risk changes depending on the available information on the epidemics – their decisions will then have population-level consequences. For example, an individual may choose to have unsafe sex or a doctor may prescribe antibiotics to someone without a confirmed bacterial infection. In both cases, the choice may be rational from the individual’s point of view but undesirable from a societal perspective.\n\nLimiting the spread of a disease at the population level requires changing individual behavior, which in turn depends on what information individuals have about the level of risk. When risk is low, people will tend to ignore it. However, if the risk of infection is higher, individuals are more likely to take preventive action. Moreover, the more transmissible the pathogen, the greater the incentive is to make personal investments for control.\n\nThe converse is also true: if there is a lowered risk of disease, either through vaccination or because of lowered prevalence, individuals may increase their risk-taking behavior. This effect is analogous to the introduction of safety regulations, such as seatbelts in cars, which because they reduce the cost of an accident in terms of expected injury and death, could lead people to drive with less caution and the resulting injuries to nonoccupants and increased nonfatal crashes may offset some of the gains from the use of seatbelts.\n\nPrevalence-dependent behavior introduces a crucial difference with respect to the way individuals respond when the prevalence of a disease increases. If behavior is exogenous or if behavioral responses are assumed to be inelastic with respect to disease prevalence, the per capita risk of infection in the susceptible population increases as prevalence increases. In contrast, when behavior is endogenous and elastic, hosts can act to reduce their risks. If their responses are strong enough, they can reduce the average per capita risk and offset the increases in the risk of transmission associated with higher prevalence.\n\nAlternatively, the waning of perceived risk, either through the diminution of prevalence or the introduction of a vaccine, may lead to increases in risky behavior. For example, models suggested that the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), which significantly reduced the morbidity and mortality associated with HIV/AIDS, may lead to increases in the incidence of HIV as the perceived risk of HIV/AIDS decreased.\n\nRecent analysis suggests that an individual’s likelihood of engaging in unprotected sex is related to their personal analysis of risk, with those who believed that receiving HAART or having an undetectable viral load protects against transmitting HIV or who had reduced concerns about engaging in unsafe sex given the availability of HAART were more likely to engage in unprotected sex regardless of HIV status.\n\nThis behavioral response can have important implications for the timing of public interventions, because prevalence and public subsidies may compete to induce protective behavior. In other words, if prevalence induces the same sort of protective behavior as public subsidies, the subsidies become irrelevant because people will choose to protect themselves when prevalence is high, regardless of the subsidy, and subsidies may not be helpful at the times when they are typically applied.\n\nAlthough STDs are logical targets for examining the role of human behavior in a modeling framework, personal actions are important for other infectious diseases as well. The rapidity with which individuals reduce their contact rate with others during an outbreak of a highly transmissible disease can significantly affect the spread of the disease. Even small reductions in the contact rate can be important, especially for diseases like influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). However, this may also affect policy planning for a biological attack with a disease such as smallpox.\n\nIndividual behavioral responses to interventions for non-sexually transmitted diseases are also important. For example, mass spraying to reduce malaria transmission can reduce the irritating effects of biting by nuisance mosquitoes and so lead to reduced personal use of bednets. Economic epidemiology strives to incorporate these types of behavior responses into epidemiological models to enhance a model’s utility in evaluating control measures.\n\nImmunization represents a classic case of a social dilemma: a conflict of interest between the private gains of individuals and the collective gains of a society, and prevalence-dependent behavior may have significant effects on vaccine policy formation. For instance, it was found in an analysis of the hypothetical introduction of a vaccine that would reduce (though not eliminate) the risk of contracting HIV, that individual levels of risk behavior were a significant barrier to eliminating HIV, as small changes in behavior could actually increase the incidence/prevalence of HIV, even if the vaccine were highly efficacious. These results, as well as others, may have contributed to a decision not to release existing semi-efficacious vaccines.\n\nAn individual's self-interest and choice often leads to a vaccination uptake rate less than the social optimum as individuals do not take into account the benefit to others. In addition, prevalence dependent behavior suggests how the introduction of a vaccine may affect the spread of a disease. As the prevalence of a disease increases, people will demand to be vaccinated. As prevalence decreases, however, the incentive, and thus demand, will slacken and allow the susceptible population to increase until the disease can reinvade. As long as a vaccine is not free, either monetarily or through true or even perceived side effects, demand will be insufficient to pay for the vaccine at some point, leaving some people unvaccinated. If the disease is contagious, it could then begin spreading again among non-vaccinated individuals. Thus, it is impossible to eradicate a vaccine-preventable disease through voluntary vaccination if people act in their own self-interest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51064221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51064221", "title": "Faith Lawson", "text": "Faith Lawson\n\nFaith Lawson MBE (9 February 1922 – 16 October 1998) was a British housing officer and campaigner, chairman of the Pedestrians Association from 1991 to 1997.\n\nShe was born in West Bridgford, Nottingham, the daughter of John Lawson, a pharmaceutical chemist who worked for and knew Jesse Boot, and a Methodist circuit steward. Her brother was the politician, Hugh Lawson.\n"}
{"id": "6071941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6071941", "title": "Foundation for Active Rehabilitation", "text": "Foundation for Active Rehabilitation\n\nFoundation for Active Rahabilitation () (FAR) is a non-profit Polish organization of social and professional rehabilitation of disabled people after spinal cord injuries. \n\nIn existence since 1988, the Foundation organizes the biggest Polish sporting event for disabled athletes, called Active Rehabilitation Games. The event is fashioned after similar games in Great Britain called Stocke Mandeville Word Wheelchair Games. The first event was held a decade ago in 1998 and was attended by 300 athletes from Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine and Sweden. The Games were held for the eight times in 2008. \n\nActive rehabilitation program offered by the Foundation is a Swedish concept from the late 1970s. It was introduced in Poland by Polish-Swedish diaspora with the help from Swedish instructors who attended the first rehabilitation camp in Poland. The unique aspect of the program is that both, the sporting coaches and the caretakers are also disabled. \n\n"}
{"id": "32101766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32101766", "title": "Foundation for Development of Ukraine", "text": "Foundation for Development of Ukraine\n\nThe Foundation for Development of Ukraine is a non-profit organization, established July 15, 2005 by Rinat Lyeonidovich Akhmetov, a Ukrainian businessman. Mission of the Foundation: \"Work for people by eliminating the causes of burning social problems; implementing the best practices of Ukraine and other countries, developing unique system solutions; obtaining the optimal result with every project and action\". Foundation has two offices functioning in Kiev and Donetsk, Ukraine.\n\n\n\n\nWith the outbreak of the war in Donbass in 2014, the Humanitarian Center was established on the basis of the Rinat Akhmetov Foundation to help civilians affected by the war. The Center evacuated people from trouble spots, distributed humanitarian food packages and helped treat and rehabilitate the injured. As of May 2017, more than a million Donbas residents received assistance from the Humanitarian Center.\n\nThe Project was established to cover expensive and complex treatment courses, including treatment of children, which cannot be totally funded by the state and the national budget. Assistance in emergencies project is to provide help to those who suffered from natural and manmade disasters. Support was rendered to victims and people whose relatives died in the blasts in Dnepropetrovsk, at Zasyadko, Krasnolimanskaya, Karl Marx, Duvannaya coal mines.\n\n"}
{"id": "33078410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33078410", "title": "Gay City Health Project", "text": "Gay City Health Project\n\nGay City Health Project, also known as Gay City, is a multicultural nonprofit organization based in Seattle, Washington which promotes the welfare of gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSMs), and more generally the LGBT community in Seattle.\n\nGay City provides HIV testing to MSMs, operates an LGBT resource referral phone line, manages a smoking cessation project called \"Tobactivism\", and houses the LGBT library formerly held by the Seattle LGBT Community Center until it closed in 2009.\n\nIn 2007 Gay City became a research partner for the Seattle branch of the HIV Vaccine Trials Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "30364394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30364394", "title": "Hemihyperplasia–multiple lipomatosis syndrome", "text": "Hemihyperplasia–multiple lipomatosis syndrome\n\nHemihyperplasia–multiple lipomatosis syndrome is a cutaneous condition characterized by multiple lipomas in association with asymmetric (but non-progressive and non-distorting) overgrowth, cutaneous capillary malformations, and thickened plantar skin with prominent creases.\n\n"}
{"id": "10823528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10823528", "title": "HipNav", "text": "HipNav\n\nHipNav was the first computer-assisted surgery system developed to guide the surgeon during total hip replacement surgery. It was developed at Carnegie Mellon University.\n"}
{"id": "6491947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6491947", "title": "Hydroxycut", "text": "Hydroxycut\n\nHydroxycut is a brand of dietary supplements that is marketed as a weight loss aid. Hydroxycut was originally developed and manufactured by MuscleTech Research and Development; MuscleTech was sold to Iovate Health Sciences in 2003–2004 and declared bankruptcy in 2005; Iovate continues to use MuscleTech as a brand to market Hydroxycut.\n\nSince 2013, the primary ingredients in the product line include caffeine, lady's mantle extract (\"Alchemilla vulgaris\"), wild olive extract (\"Olea europaea\"), cumin extract (\"Cuminum cyminum\"), wild mint extract (\"Mentha longifolia\"), and, in some products, green coffee bean extract (\"Coffea canephora\").\n\nBefore the 2004 reformulation, formulations contained ephedra, a supplement banned by the FDA in 2004. Before the 2009 reformulation, formulations contained several substances with potential to harm the liver. After a series of reports in the medical literature of serious liver problems, including one death, the FDA warned consumers to stop using Hydroxycut, and Iovate agreed to voluntarily recall the products.\n\nThe harm caused by Hydroxycut products has led to calls for stricter regulation of the dietary supplement industry and to calls within the industry for more rigorous safety testing.\n\nHydroxycut is sold at conventional retailers, online retailers, and through direct television marketing. Like many dietary supplements, published studies demonstrating scientific evidence of its effectiveness and safety is lacking.\n\nIn March 2013, Sean Lowe became the brand ambassador for Hydroxycut Hardcore. In the same month, IndyCar racer Tony Kanaan announced he will pilot the No. 11 Hydroxycut IndyCar at the Indianapolis 500 along with 8 other events at the 2013 IndyCar Championship. Hydroxycut has been promoted as being created and endorsed by doctors. Television advertisements for Hydroxycut featured a medical resident, although reporters were unable to locate him after Hydroxycut was removed from the market in 2009.\n\nMuscleTech Research and Development Inc was a Canadian company based in Toronto that operated with a group of closely related companies, and developed the Hydroxycut product line. Thousands of lawsuits were filed over ephedra in the early 2000s; the first lawsuits against MuscleTech began in 2000 and by 2004 there were about 80 pending. In 2003 and 2004, most of the assets of the MuscleTech group of companies were sold off to other companies, including Iovate Health Sciences; the same person controlled MuscleTech and Iovate. MuscleTech filed for bankruptcy in June 2005 and the claims of litigants against MuscleTech were resolved by 2007. Since then, MuscleTech has become a brand of Iovate, under which Hydroxycut products are sold.\n\nIovate Health Sciences operates as a subsidiary of Kerr Investment Holding Corp.\n\nPrior to 2004, some formulations of Hydroxycut contained ephedra. There were reports of seizures in people who had ingested Hydroxycut, which were attributed to the ephedra and caffeine in the product. As a result, there were around 80 pending ephedra lawsuits against MuscleTech.\n\nIn 2003, Missouri Attorney General Jay Nixon filed a lawsuit in St. Louis against Hydroxycut's manufacturer, MuscleTech, stating that its marketing claims that Hydroxycut was \"clinically proven\" to be a \"fat-burner\" were false. Nixon also alleged that \"MuscleTech's own consultants had serious concerns about the safety of Hydroxycut, but the company continued to market the product.\" MuscleTech paid $100,000 to settle the case and agreed to cease marketing ephedra-containing products in Missouri and to refund customers' money.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported in 2003 that internal documents from MuscleTech indicated that the company had buried studies showing that Hydroxycut was ineffective, covered up evidence of cardiac side effects, and even tampered with the documents it submitted as evidence in a lawsuit in Oklahoma.\n\nIn 2004, the FDA banned ephedra after 155 deaths from heart attack and stroke were attributed to ephedra, including the death of Baltimore Orioles pitcher Steve Bechler. It was the first banning of a dietary supplement by the FDA.\n\nBy 2009, about 15% of Americans had tried taking dietary supplements for weight loss, and Hydroxycut was the biggest seller, with about a million units sold each year.\n\nHowever, Hydroxycut formulations contained several substances with potential to harm the liver such as hydroxycitric acid.\n\nScientific evidence of serious side effects from Hydroxycut products accumulated, including liver failure (requiring liver transplantation in some cases), rhabdomyolysis, and at least one death, of a 19-year-old man who used the product.\n\nOn May 1, 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a warning to consumers to stop using Hydroxycut products, due to 23 reports of serious health problems associated with the use of Hydroxycut, and at least one death, and to destroy any product that they may possess. The warning stated \"Although the liver damage appears to be relatively rare, FDA believes consumers should not be exposed to unnecessary risk. Consumers who have these products are urged to stop using them.\" Following the FDA warning, the manufacturer then agreed to voluntarily recall the products.\n\nAfter the 2009 recall, Hydroxycut was reformulated and placed back on sale, and the FDA confirmed that the only ingredient left from prior formulations was caffeine.\n\nAs of 2013, its primary ingredients include caffeine anhydrous, Lady's mantle extract (\"Alchemilla vulgaris\"), Wild olive extract (\"Olea europaea\"), Cumin extract (\"Cuminum cyminum\"), Wild mint extract (\"Mentha longifolia\") and, in some Hydroxycut products, Green coffee bean extract (\"Coffea canephora robusta\").\n\nFollowing the reformulation, case reports in the medical literature have continued to link Hydroxycut to serious side effects. An article published in 2010 reported on a case of atrial fibrillation that the author suspected was due to epigallocatechin gallate in Hydroxycut Green Tea, a product that as of 2012 is no longer marketed. Another case published in 2013 reported on a patient who developed ulcerative colitis due to Hydroxycut Hardcore.\n\nThe Hydroxycut case has been cited as emblematic of the weak regulation of dietary supplements in the U.S. Defenders of the nutritional supplements industry said that the recall demonstrated that the FDA has the power to protect consumers from toxic products, while critics cited it as evidence that the FDA's powers over dietary supplements need to be expanded.\n\nWhile some diet supplement executives defended the safety of Hydroxycut and believed the media \"over-hyped\" the FDA withdrawal, others questioned why Iovate had not published long-term safety or efficacy studies on the final Hydroxycut products, and used weak trial duration and sample sizes. This is despite having the money to perform such studies and their self-definition as a \"research-oriented\" company. The editors of the nutrition trade journal \"Nutrition Business Journal\" noted that this recall \"will ultimately be a good thing for the dietary supplement industry if it encourages weight-loss supplement manufacturers to care as much about their products' safety and efficacy as they do about expanding and protecting their bottom lines.\"\n\nIn a paper published in the \"World Journal of Gastroenterology\" in October 2010, Hydroxycut was cited as an example of \"current and former weight loss products backed by potentially conflicted or low quality research.\" It noted that \"Marketing materials for Hydroxycut cited two published studies asserting product effectiveness that were small, of short duration, reported no serious side effects, and did not disclose relationships between authors and the product manufacturer or that funding was received from the product manufacturer.\"\n\nThe paper noted that at least three studies supported the safety and effectiveness for weight loss of Cissus quadrangularis (CQ), which is an ingredient used in one of the reformulated Hydroxycut products, but \"lack financial disclosures or funding sources, beyond mentioning that the CQ being tested was provided by\" General Health Alliances, an herbal products manufacturer. The studies did not disclose that one of its authors was a chief scientific officer for GHA that holds a patent on a CQ product.\n\n"}
{"id": "31983738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31983738", "title": "James Hunt (speech therapist)", "text": "James Hunt (speech therapist)\n\nJames Hunt (1833 – 29 August 1869) was a speech therapist in London, England who had among his clients Charles Kingsley, Leo Tennyson (son of the poet laureate Alfred Tennyson) and Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson) author of \"Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland\".\n\nLewis Carroll was a children’s author, mathematician, and clergyman but had a severe stammer that affected his job. The 1861 census shows that Charles Lutwidge Dodgson was staying at Ore House in 1861 and being treated by Dr Hunt a psellismolligist. Since his book was published in 1865 it is quite possible that some of it was written during his stay.\n\nHis other main interest was in anthropology and in 1863 he established the Anthropological Society of London, which after his death merged with the more established Ethnological Society of London to become the Royal Anthropological Institute.\n\nJames Hunt was born in Swanage, Dorset, the son of the speech therapist Thomas Hunt (1802–1851) and his wife Mary. He was trained by his father in the art of curing stuttering by means of breath exercises, muscle control and building the patient's confidence. He bought a doctorate from the University of Giessen in Germany and set up a practice in 1856 in Regent Street, London. He dedicated his first \"Manual\" on the subject to Charles Kingsley who spent three weeks with him in 1859. He moved to Hastings where ran residential courses during the summer season with his sister Elizabeth's husband, Rev. Henry F. Rivers.\n\nIn 1854 he joined the Ethnological Society of London because of his interest in racial differences and from 1859 to 1862 was the honorary secretary. However many members of this society disliked his attacks on humanitarian and missionary societies and the anti-slavery movement. So in 1863 with the help of the explorer Richard Burton he set up the Anthropological Society of London, becoming its first president. His paper \"The Negro's place in nature\" was greeted with boos and hisses when given at the British Association meeting in 1863 because of its defence of slavery in the Confederate States of America and belief in the plurality of the human species.\n\nHe established the \"Anthropological Review\" as the organ of the society and by 1867 the membership of the Society had reached 500. However, by 1867 allegations by one of the members Hyde Clarke of financial irregularities in his running of the society caused his temporary resignation as president, though he returned in 1868 when Clarke was expelled. This took a toll on his health and in 1869 he died of an inflammation of the brain. The society shortly afterwards started discussions to merge with the Ethnological Society.\n\nHe left a widow, Henrietta, and five children and left his books to his nephew W.H.R. Rivers who refused them, though, through unconnected means, he later became an anthropologist himself.\n\n\nEfram Sera-Shriar, ‘Observing Human Difference: James Hunt, Thomas Huxley, and Competing Disciplinary Strategies in the 1860s’, Annals of Science, 70 (2013), 461-491\n"}
{"id": "47772287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47772287", "title": "John H. Ebersole", "text": "John H. Ebersole\n\nCaptain John Henry Ebersole, M.D., MC USN (26 January 1925 – 23 September 1993) a pioneer in submarine medicine and radiation oncology, selected by Admiral Hyman G. Rickover to serve as medical officer aboard the US Navy's first two nuclear powered submarines, the and the . He was the radiologist for NASA that screened the Mercury Seven astronauts for Project Mercury. Ebersole was the radiologist responsible for the x-rays taken during the autopsy of John F. Kennedy on 22 November 1963 at Bethesda Naval Medical Center.\n\nEbersole was born in 1925 at Sterling, Illinois. He grew up in northwestern Illinois.\nOn 21 October 1948, John H. Ebersole, physician applied for a marriage license to wed Marion E. Sherwood, nurse. The couple were married on 30 October 1948 at St. Vincent de Paul church by Reverend M.J. Rouck in Bedford, Indiana. Ebersole was the son of Noah Ebersole, auto mechanic and Geraldine Kathryn McCormick, housewife. Marion was the daughter of Samuel J. Sherwood, estimator and Maybelle Elizabeth Lehay.\n\nEbersole served for 24 years in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps. He was the first officer to serve aboard two nuclear submarines, the and the , being selected by Admiral Hyman G. Rickover as the medical officer for the crew. He worked with NASA on Project Mercury. Ebersole was assigned to Bethesda Naval Medical Center and was the radiologist for the autopsy of President John F. Kennedy. He was chief of radiation therapy, training director for nuclear medicine, and director of the Radiation Exposure Evaluation Laboratory. He became chief of diagnostic radiology and chief of radiology. After retirement from the Navy, Ebersole settled in Lancaster, Pennsylvania where he established and directed the John Hale Steinman Cancer Center at Lancaster General Hospital. Upon retirement from medical practice, Ebersole pursue a lifelong passion in mystery novels and crime fiction. He traveled to England and attended conferences at Oxford University. He became adjunct faculty at Franklin and Marshall College and taught a detective fiction course in the EtCetera program. He was a founding member of the Orange Street Improbables, a group of mystery enthusiasts.\n\nIn 1993, Ebersole died at home after a brief illness at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery, in plot: Sec: 8, Site: 9473.\n\nEbersole completed his undergraduate studies at Saint Ambrose College in Davenport, Iowa. In 2013, he was posthumously inducted into the Newman Central Catholic High School Hall of Fame at Sterling, Illinois. He attended the Indiana University and graduated in 1948. He received the M.D. from Indiana University at the age 23.\n\nEbersole entered the U.S. Navy in July 1948 and trained in undersea medicine. As a future submarine doctor, Ebersole received extensive nuclear training. From 1949 to 1959, Ebersole was associated with nuclear submarines and had special training in nuclear physics at Duke University and at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Ebersole was commissioned in the U.S. Navy and served on the USS \"Nautilus\" and the USS \"Seawolf\", the first two nuclear submarines. Ebersole was selected by Admiral Hyman G. Rickover as the medical officer for the USS \"Nautilus\", the first nuclear-powered submarine and served under commanding officer Commander Eugene Parks Wilkinson. Ebersole was a member of the launching crew for the USS \"Nautilus\". He went on to serve as medical officer aboard the USS \"Seawolf\", the second nuclear submarine for the U.S. Navy. Ebersole was the first person to serve on more than one nuclear powered vessel.\n\nOn 26 September 1957, President Dwight D. Eisenhower boarded the USS \"Seawolf\" at Narragansett Bay and was greeted by skipper Commander Richard B. Lanning and Rear Admiral Frederick B. Warder, Atlantic Fleet submarine force commander. The President was briefed by Ebersole regarding radiation exposure aboard the \"Seawolf\". \nAccording to the \"New York Times\" report:\n\nThe President was briefed about controlled radiation exposure aboard nuclear-powered submarines. He received a film patch to wear and a tiny dosimeter to read. The medical officer, Lieut. Comdr. John E. Ebersole of Sterling, Ill., explained to the President that submariners in the new type craft get an average radiation dosage of about 200 milliroentgens a year, compared with an allowable industrial dose of about 300 a week. As he left the boat, the President jokingly told Admiral Warder to check on his film patch and \"let me know if I had too much radiation.\" \"I assure you, you won't have,\" the Admiral said.\"\nDuring his tour, the \"Seawolf\" set a new record of submergence for 60 days under the command of Captain Richard Boyer Laning. Captain Laning and the \"Seawolf\" crew were greeted upon return to port at New London, Connecticut by Rear Admiral Hyman G. Rickover.\n\nWhen the USS \"Seawolf\" was decommissioned, he started a residency in radiology at Bethesda Naval Hospital. In July 1963, he completed residency. He then became Chief of Radiation Therapy in the Medicine Section at Bethesda Naval Hospital.\n\nEventually, the Navy established a routine training program for what would be called Nuke School. The coursework for officers to be assigned to nuclear submarines and ships began at Reed College in Oregon with 24 weeks of training. Then they received 6 weeks of field training at the Atomic Energy Commission's Hanford plutonium production facilities in Washington. Next the candidates spent 5 weeks at the Nevada Test Site and the Sandia nuclear weapons laboratory in New Mexico. They finished up with 6 weeks of additional training at the Walter Reed Laboratory in Maryland.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1961, Ebersole worked with NASA during the training phase of the Project Mercury. Ebersole was part of the committee that evaluated the candidates selected for Project Mercury, the NASA Special Committee on Life Sciences. The committee included: Dr. William Randolph Lovelace II, Captain Norman L. Barr, LtCdr John H. Ebersole, Brigadier General Donald D. Flickinger, LtCol Robert H. Holmes, Dr. Wright Haskell Langham, Dr. Robert Burr Livingston, Dr. Orr Reynolds, and Boyd C. Myers II, committee secretary.\n\nAt the time of the JFK autopsy, Ebersole was Commander, United States Navy, Assistant Chief of Radiology and head of the Radiology Division at Bethesda Naval Medical Center. Ebersole was the radiologist responsible for the x-rays taken during the autopsy of John F. Kennedy on 22 November 1963 at Bethesda Naval Medical Center. After the JFK assassination, Ebersole remained at Bethesda Naval Medical Center. In 1968, he was promoted to chairman of the radiology department and retired in 1970.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25881890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25881890", "title": "Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine", "text": "Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine\n\nThe Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine is a peer-reviewed medical journal that covers obstetric, medical, genetic, mental health, and surgical complications of pregnancy and their effects on the mother, fetus, and neonate. Research on audit, evaluation, and clinical care in maternal-fetal and perinatal medicine is also featured. It is the official journal of the European Association of Perinatal Medicine, the Federation of Asia and Oceania Perinatal Societies, and the International Society of Perinatal Obstetricians.\n\nThe Editors-in-Chief of the \"Journal of Maternal-Fetal and Neonatal Medicine\" are Gian Carlo Di Renzo (Santa Maria della Misericordia University Hospital, Perugia, Italy) and Dev Maulik (University of Missouri at Kansas City School of Medicine).\n"}
{"id": "17837552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17837552", "title": "Karun-4 Dam", "text": "Karun-4 Dam\n\nThe Karun-4 Dam is an arch dam on the Karun River located at 180 km southwest of Shahr-e-Kord in the province of Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari, Iran. The Karun has the highest discharge of all the Iranian rivers. Its construction is aimed at electric power supply of 2107 million kWh annually and controlling floods in the upper Karun.\n\nThe dam is a concrete double curvature arch-type and high from the foundation. The arch dam design is an ideal one for a dam built in a narrow, rocky gorge to hold back water in a reservoir. The dam is curved. Because of the arch shape, the force of the backed up water presses downward against the dam and has the effect of strengthening the dam foundation. The dam withholds a reservoir with a surface area of and capacity of . \nThe dam's first study was conducted in 1995 and river diversion began in 1997. Concrete pouring began in 2006 and the power plant began producing electricity in November 2010. On December 11, 2010, the second generator for the dam became operational and was connected to the grid. The dam will eventually have an installed capacity of 1,020 MW. The dam was inaugurated on 6 July 2011 by Iranian President Mahmood Ahmadinejad.\n\nIt was built to fulfill the followings: \n\nThe dam construction was costed 8600 billion Rials financed by public resources including national and local budget, domestic banks facilities, bonds, as well as foreign facilities (finance, loan, etc.).Initial estimate of annual income from the electricity production amounted to 1353 billion Rials (642 Rials per kilo watt hour).\n\n1. Daelim (Korea) + Sato (Japan): Main Civil Works\n2. Ilbau (Austria) + Forman (Iran): Preconstruction Works\n3. Machine Sazi Arak (Iran): Hydraulic Steel Structures\n4. Farab (Iran) + Harbin (China): Mechanical Equipment\n5. Farab (Iran) + Elin (Austria): Electrical I&C and HVAC Equipment\n6. IEO (Iran): GIS Switchgear\n\n"}
{"id": "43500804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43500804", "title": "List of hazing deaths in the United States", "text": "List of hazing deaths in the United States\n\nThis is a list of hazing deaths in the United States. This is not an exhaustive list. An exact list is not available because there is no central system for tracking hazing deaths, and the role of hazing in some deaths is subject to disagreement. Inclusion in this list requires that the incident was described by the media as a hazing-related death. Incidents involving criminal or civil proceedings that did not find a definite link with hazing may still be included if they meet this criterion.\n\nAccording to the National Collaborative for Hazing Research and Prevention at the University of Maine, hazing is defined as \"any activity expected of someone joining or participating in a group that humiliates, degrades, abuses or endangers them, regardless of a person's willingness to participate\". Although hazing is often associated with the activities that take place as a prerequisite for joining a group, it can also include activities that take place as an established member, such as the 2011 death of fraternity brother George Desdunes.\n\nThere has been at least one university hazing death each year from 1969 to 2017. According to Franklin College journalism professor Hank Nuwer, over 200 university hazing deaths have occurred since 1838, with 40 deaths between 2007 and 2017 alone. Alcohol poisoning is the biggest cause of death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50579453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50579453", "title": "MRC-5", "text": "MRC-5\n\nMRC-5 (Medical Research Council cell strain 5) is a diploid human cell culture line composed of fibroblasts derived from lung tissue of a 14 week old aborted caucasian male fetus. The cell line was isolated by J.P. Jacobs and colleagues in September 1966 from the 7th population doubling of the original strain, and MRC-5 cells themselves are known to reach senescence in around 45 population doublings.\n\nMRC-5 cells are used to produce several vaccines including MMR, Varicella and Polio. Infected MRC-5 cells secrete the virus, and can be cultured in large volumes suitable for commercial production.\n\n"}
{"id": "788093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788093", "title": "Major trauma", "text": "Major trauma\n\nMajor trauma is any injury that has the potential to cause prolonged disability or death. There are many causes of major trauma, blunt and penetrating, including falls, motor vehicle collisions, stabbing wounds, and gunshot wounds. Depending on the severity of injury, quickness of management and transportation to an appropriate medical facility (called a trauma center) may be necessary to prevent loss of life or limb. The initial assessment is critical, and involves a physical evaluation and also may include the use of imaging tools to determine the types of injuries accurately and to formulate a course of treatment.\n\nIn 2002, unintentional and intentional injuries were the fifth and seventh leading causes of deaths worldwide, accounting for 6.23% and 2.84% of all deaths. For research purposes the definition often is based on an injury severity score (ISS) of greater than 15.\n\nInjuries generally are classified by either severity, the location of damage, or a combination of both. Trauma also may be classified by demographic group, such as age or gender. It also may be classified by the type of force applied to the body, such as blunt trauma or penetrating trauma. For research purposes injury may be classified using the Barell matrix, which is based on ICD-9-CM. The purpose of the matrix is for international standardization of the classification of trauma. Major trauma sometimes is classified by body area; injuries affecting 40% are polytrauma, 30% head injuries, 20% chest trauma, 10%, abdominal trauma, and 2%, extremity trauma.\n\nVarious scales exist to provide a quantifiable metric to measure the severity of injuries. The value may be used for triaging a patient or for statistical analysis. Injury scales measure damage to anatomical parts, physiological values (blood pressure etc.), comorbidities, or a combination of those. The abbreviated injury scale and the Glasgow coma scale are used commonly to quantify injuries for the purpose of triaging and allow a system to monitor or \"trend\" a patient's condition in a clinical setting. The data also may be used in epidemiological investigations and for research purposes.\n\nApproximately 2% of those who have experienced significant trauma have a spinal cord injury.\n\nInjuries may be caused by any combination of external forces that act physically against the body. The leading causes of traumatic death are blunt trauma, motor vehicle collisions, and falls, followed by penetrating trauma such as stab wounds or impaled objects. Subsets of blunt trauma are both the number one and two causes of traumatic death.\n\nFor statistical purposes, injuries are classified as either intentional such as suicide, or unintentional, such as a motor vehicle collision. Intentional injury is a common cause of traumas. Penetrating trauma is caused when a foreign body such as a bullet or a knife enters the body tissue, creating an open wound. In the United States, most deaths caused by penetrating trauma occur in urban areas and 80% of these deaths are caused by firearms. Blast injury is a complex cause of trauma because it commonly includes both blunt and penetrating trauma, and also may be accompanied by a burn injury. Trauma also may be associated with a particular activity, such as an occupational or sports injury.\n\nThe body responds to traumatic injury both systemically and at the injury site. This response attempts to protect vital organs such as the liver, to allow further cell duplication and to heal the damage. The healing time of an injury depends on various factors including sex, age, and the severity of injury.\n\nThe symptoms of injury may manifest in many different ways, including:\n\nVarious organ systems respond to injury to restore homeostasis by maintaining perfusion to the heart and brain. Inflammation after injury occurs to protect against further damage and starts the healing process. Prolonged inflammation may cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome or systemic inflammatory response syndrome. Immediately after injury, the body increases production of glucose through gluconeogenesis and its consumption of fat via lipolysis. Next, the body tries to replenish its energy stores of glucose and protein via anabolism. In this state the body will temporarily increase its maximum expenditure for the purpose of healing injured cells.\n\nThe initial assessment is critical in determining the extent of injuries and what will be needed to manage an injury, and for treating immediate life threats.\n\nPrimary physical examination is undertaken to identify any life-threatening problems, after which the secondary examination is carried out. This may occur during transportation or upon arrival at the hospital. The secondary examination consists of a systematic assessment of the abdominal, pelvic, and thoracic areas, a complete inspection of the body surface to find all injuries, and a neurological examination. Injuries that may manifest themselves later, may be missed during the initial assessment, such as when a patient is brought into a hospital's emergency department. Generally, the physical examination is performed in a systematic way that first checks for any immediate life threats (primary survey), and then taking a more in depth examination (secondary survey).\n\nPersons with major trauma commonly have chest and pelvic x-rays taken, and, depending on the mechanism of injury and presentation, a focused assessment with sonography for trauma (FAST) exam to check for internal bleeding. For those with relatively stable blood pressure, heart rate, and sufficient oxygenation, CT scans are useful. Full-body CT scans, known as pan-scans, improve the survival rate of those who have suffered major trauma. These scans use intravenous injections for the radiocontrast agent, but not oral administration. There are concerns that intravenous contrast administration in trauma situations without confirming adequate renal function may cause damage to kidneys, but this does not appear to be significant.\n\nIn the U.S., CT or MRI scans are performed on 15% of those with trauma in emergency departments. Where blood pressure is low or the heart rate is increasedlikely from bleeding in the abdomenimmediate surgery bypassing a CT scan is recommended. Modern 64-slice CT scans are able to rule out with a high degree of accuracy, significant injuries to the neck following blunt trauma.\n\nSurgical techniques, using a tube or catheter to drain fluid from the peritoneum, chest, or the pericardium around the heart, often are used in cases of severe blunt trauma to the chest or abdomen, especially when a person is experiencing early signs of shock. In those with low blood-pressure, likely because of bleeding in the abdominal cavity, cutting through the abdominal wall surgically is indicated.\n\nBy identifying risk factors present within a community and creating solutions to decrease the incidence of injury, trauma referral systems may help to enhance the overall health of a population. Injury prevention strategies are commonly used to prevent injuries in children, who are a high risk population. Injury prevention strategies generally involve educating the general public about specific risk factors and developing strategies to avoid or reduce injuries. Legislation intended to prevent injury typically involves seatbelts, child car-seats, helmets, alcohol control, and increased enforcement of the legislation. Other controllable factors, such as the use of drugs including alcohol or cocaine, increases the risk of trauma by increasing the likelihood of traffic collisions, violence, and abuse occurring. Prescription drugs such as benzodiazepines may increase the risk of trauma in elderly people.\n\nThe care of acutely injured people in a public health system requires the involvement of bystanders, community members, health care professionals, and health care systems. It encompasses pre-hospital trauma assessment and care by emergency medical services personnel, emergency department assessment, treatment, stabilization, and in-hospital care among all age groups. An established trauma system network is also an important component of community disaster preparedness, facilitating the care of people who have been involved in disasters that cause large numbers of casualties, such as earthquakes.\n\nThe pre-hospital use of stabilization techniques improves the chances of a person surviving the journey to the nearest trauma-equipped hospital. Emergency medicine services determines which people need treatment at a trauma center as well as provide primary stabilization by checking and treating airway, breathing, and circulation as well as assessing for disability and gaining exposure to check for other injuries.\n\nSpinal motion restriction by securing the neck with a cervical collar and placing the person on a long spine board was of high importance in the pre-hospital setting, but due to lack of evidence to support its use, the practice is losing favor. Instead, it is recommend that more exclusive criteria be met such as age and neurological deficits to indicate the need of these adjuncts. This may be accomplished with other medical transport devices such as a Kendrick extrication device, before moving the person. It is important to quickly control severe bleeding with direct pressure to the wound and consider the use of hemostatic agents or tourniquets if the bleeding continues. Conditions such as impending airway obstruction, enlargening neck hematoma, or unconsciousness require intubation. It is unclear, however, if this is best performed before reaching hospital or in the hospital.\n\nRapid transportation of severely injured patients improves the outcome in trauma. Helicopter EMS transport reduces mortality compared to ground-based transport in adult trauma patients. Before arrival at the hospital, the availability of advanced life support does not greatly improve the outcome for major trauma when compared to the administration of basic life support. Evidence is inconclusive in determining support for pre-hospital intravenous fluid resuscitation while some evidence has found it may be harmful. Hospitals with designated trauma centers have improved outcomes when compared to hospitals without them, and outcomes may improve when persons who have experienced trauma are transferred directly to a trauma center.\n\nManagement of those with trauma often requires the help of many healthcare specialists including physicians, nurses, respiratory therapists, and social workers. Cooperation allows many actions to be completed at once. Generally the first step of managing trauma is to perform a primary survey that evaluates a person's airway, breathing, circulation, and neurologic status. After immediate life threats are controlled, a person is either moved into an operating room for immediate surgical correction of the injuries, or a secondary survey is performed that is a more detailed head-to-toe assessment of the person.\n\nIndications for intubation include airway obstruction, inability to protect the airway, and respiratory failure. Examples of these indications include penetrating neck trauma, expanding neck hematoma, and being unconscious, among other indications. In general, the method of intubation used is rapid sequence intubation followed by ventilation. Assessment of circulation in those with trauma includes control of active bleeding. When a person is first brought in, vital signs are checked, an ECG is performed, and, if needed, vascular access is obtained. Other tests should be performed to get a baseline measurement of their current blood chemistry, such as a arterial blood gas or thromboelastography. In those with cardiac arrest due to trauma chest compressions are considered futile, but still recommended. Correcting the underlying cause such as a pneumothorax or pericardial tamponade, if present, may help.\n\nA FAST exam may help assess for internal bleeding. In certain traumas, such as maxillofacial trauma, it may be beneficial to have a highly trained health care provider available to maintain airway, breathing, and circulation.\n\nTraditionally, high-volume intravenous fluids were given to people who had poor perfusion due to trauma. This is still appropriate in cases with isolated extremity trauma, thermal trauma, or head injuries. In general, however, giving lots of fluids appears to increase the risk of death. Current evidence supports limiting the use of fluids for penetrating thorax and abdominal injuries, allowing mild hypotension to persist. Targets include a mean arterial pressure of 60 mmHg, a systolic blood pressure of 70–90 mmHg, or the re-establishment of peripheral pulses and adequate ability to think. Hypertonic saline has been studied and found to be of little difference from normal saline.\n\nAs no intravenous fluids used for initial resuscitation have been shown to be superior, warmed Lactated Ringer's solution continues to be the solution of choice. If blood products are needed, a greater use of fresh frozen plasma and platelets relative to packed red blood cells has been found to improve survival and lower overall blood product use; a ratio of 1:1:1 is recommended. The success of platelets has been attributed to the fact that they may prevent coagulopathy from developing. Cell salvage and autotransfusion also may be used.\n\nBlood substitutes such as hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers are in development; however, as of 2013 there are none available for commercial use in North America or Europe. These products are only available for general use in South Africa and Russia.\n\nTranexamic acid decreases the mortality rate in people who are bleeding due to trauma. It only appears to be beneficial, however, if administered within the first three hours after trauma. For severe bleeding, for example from bleeding disorders, recombinant factor VIIaa protein that assists blood clottingmay be appropriate. While it decreases blood use, it does not appear to decrease the mortality rate. In those without previous factor VII deficiency, its use is not recommended outside of trial situations.\n\nOther medications may be used in conjunction with other procedures to stabilize a person who has sustained a significant injury. While positive inotropic medications such as norepinephrine sometimes are used in hemorrhagic shock as a result of trauma, there is a lack of evidence for their use. Therefore, as of 2012 they have not been recommended. Allowing a low blood pressure may be preferred in some situations.\n\nThe decision whether to perform surgery is determined by the extent of the damage and the anatomical location of the injury. Bleeding must be controlled before definitive repair may occur. Damage control surgery is used to manage severe trauma in which there is a cycle of metabolic acidosis, hypothermia, and hypotension that may lead to death, if not corrected. The main principal of the procedure involves performing the least number of procedures to save life and limb; less critical procedures are left until the victim is more stable. Approximately 15% of all people with trauma have abdominal injuries, and approximately 25% of these require exploratory surgery. The majority of preventable deaths from trauma result from unrecognised intra-abdominal bleeding.\n\nTrauma deaths occur in immediate, early, or late stages. Immediate deaths usually are due to apnea, severe brain or high spinal cord injury, or rupture of the heart or of large blood vessels. Early deaths occur within minutes to hours and often are due to hemorrhages in the outer meningeal layer of the brain, torn arteries, blood around the lungs, air around the lungs, ruptured spleen, liver laceration, or pelvic fracture. Immediate access to care may be crucial to prevent death in persons experiencing major trauma. Late deaths occurs days or weeks after the injury and often are related to infection. Prognosis is better in countries with a dedicated trauma system where injured persons are provided quick and effective access to proper treatment facilities.\n\nLong-term prognosis frequently is complicated by pain; more than half of trauma patients have moderate to severe pain one year after injury. Many also experience a reduced quality of life years after an injury, with 20% of victims sustaining some form of disability.\nPhysical trauma may lead to development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). One study has found no correlation between the severity of trauma and the development of PTSD.\n\nTrauma is the sixth leading cause of death worldwide, resulting in five million or 10% of all deaths annually. It is the fifth leading cause of significant disability. About half of trauma deaths are in people aged between 15 and 45 years and trauma is the leading cause of death in this age group. Injury affects more males; 68% of injuries occur in males and death from trauma is twice as common in males as it is in females, this is believed to be because males are much more willing to engage in risk-taking activities. Teenagers and young adults are more likely to need hospitalization from injuries than other age groups. While elderly persons are less likely to be injured, they are more likely to die from injuries sustained due to various physiological differences that make it more difficult for the body to compensate for the injuries. The primary causes of traumatic death are central nervous system injuries and substantial blood loss. Various classification scales exist for use with trauma to determine the severity of injuries, which are used to determine the resources used and, for statistical collection.\n\nThe human remains discovered at the site of Nataruk in Turkana, Kenya, are claimed to show major trauma, blunt and penetrating trauma, caused by violent trauma to the head, neck, ribs, knees, and hands that has been interpreted by some researchers as establishing the existence of warfare between two groups of hunter-gatherers 10,000 years ago. The evidence for blunt force trauma at Nataruk has been challenged, however, and the interpretation that the site represents an early example of warfare has been questioned.\n\nThe financial cost of trauma includes both the amount of money spent on treatment and the loss of potential economic gain through absence from work. The average financial cost for the treatment of traumatic injury in the United States is approximately per person, making it costlier than the treatment of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. One reason for the high cost of the treatment for trauma is the increased possibility of complications, which leads to the need for more interventions. Maintaining a trauma center is costly because they are open continuously and maintain a state of readiness to receive patients, even if there are none. In addition to the direct costs of the treatment, there also is a burden on the economy due to lost wages and productivity, which in 2009, accounted for approximately in the United States.\n\nCitizens of low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) often have higher mortality rates from injury. These countries accounted for 89% of all deaths from injury worldwide. Many of these countries do not have access to sufficient surgical care and many do not have a trauma system in place. In addition, most LMICs do not have a pre-hospital care system that treats injured persons initially and transports them to hospital quickly, resulting in most casualty patients being transported by private vehicles. Also, their hospitals lack the appropriate equipment, organizational resources, or trained staff. By 2020, the amount of trauma-related deaths is expected to decline in high-income countries, while in low- to middle-income countries it is expected to increase.\n\nDue to anatomical and physiological differences, injuries in children need to be approached differently from those in adults. Accidents are the leading cause of death in children between 1 and 14 years old. In the United States, approximately sixteen million children go to an emergency department due to some form of injury every year, with boys being more frequently injured than girls by a ratio of 2:1. The world's five most common unintentional injuries in children as of 2008 are road crashes, drowning, burns, falls, and poisoning.\n\nWeight estimation is an important part of managing trauma in children because the accurate dosing of medicine may be critical for resuscitative efforts. A number of methods to estimate weight, including the Broselow tape, Leffler formula, and Theron formula exist.\n\nTrauma occurs in approximately 5% of all pregnancies, and is the leading cause of maternal death. Additionally, pregnant women may experience placental abruption, pre-term labor, and uterine rupture. There are diagnostic issues during pregnancy; ionizing radiation has been shown to cause birth defects, although the doses used for typical exams generally are considered safe. Due to normal physiological changes that occur during pregnancy, shock may be more difficult to diagnose. Where the woman is more than 23 weeks pregnant, it is recommended that the fetus be monitored for at least four hours by cardiotocography.\n\nA number of treatments beyond typical trauma care may be needed when the patient is pregnant. Because the weight of the uterus on the inferior vena cava may decrease blood return to the heart, it may be very beneficial to lay a women in late pregnancy on her left side. also recommended are Rho(D) immune globulin in those who are rh negative, corticosteroids in those who are 24 to 34 weeks and may need delivery or a caesarian section in the event of cardiac arrest.\n\nMost research on trauma occurs during war and military conflicts as militaries will increase trauma research spending in order to prevent combat related deaths. Some research is being conducted on patients who were admitted into an intensive care unit or trauma center, and received a trauma diagnosis that caused a negative change in their health-related quality of life, with a potential to create anxiety and symptoms of depression. New preserved blood products also are being researched for use in pre-hospital care; it is impractical to use the currently available blood products in a timely fashion in remote, rural settings or in theaters of war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3847226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3847226", "title": "Medical college", "text": "Medical college\n\nA medical college or medical association is a trade association that brings together practitioners of a particular geographical area (a country, region, province). In common-law countries, they are often grouped by medical specialties (cardiologists, family doctors, etc.).\n\nMedical associations act as a safeguard of the fundamental values of the medical profession: the deontological ethics and code of ethics. In addition to providing exclusive representation in national and international medical practitioners, a medical college is responsible for management and protection of the medical profession.\n\nIn most countries, licensing is usually required. A professional or college official is a public corporation of an industry association composed of persons exercising liberal professions and calls are usually covered by the state. Associate members are known as colleges.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the college was understood by the name of \"Colegium\" the company public law with legal personality, formed by a plurality of persons with the same trade. For its formation is needed at least three people, but to continue their activity sufficient one. It is believed that \"Opificum\" o \"Societate\" colleges, from which the current Official Colleges, were derived from the associations of commoners to achieve benefits similar to those enjoyed by the patricians, needed a special authorization from the Emperor or the Senate to take legal personality. The government and the administration were chosen at a meeting of all participants. From Alexander Severus, these associations are transformed to free compulsory, children should follow the profession of his father.\n\nThese first colleges were characterized by common purpose to prevail over private interests. In Europe, and specifically in Spain, colleges and professional associations have a long tradition through the centuries, interrupted only by the French Revolution, which in its ideology advocating that there should be one between the citizen and the sovereign state. This suppression of the early nineteenth century was changing throughout the century, returning to the end of her rebirth.\n\nCurrently, a professional association is a public corporation of an industry association composed of persons exercising professions calls, and are usually covered by the state. Associate members are known as colleges. When dedication is directed to manual or craft activities used the traditional name of guild.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528467", "title": "Microkeratome", "text": "Microkeratome\n\nA microkeratome is a precision surgical instrument with an oscillating blade designed for creating the corneal flap in LASIK or ALK surgery. The normal human cornea varies from around 500 to 600 micrometres in thickness; and in the LASIK procedure, the microkeratome creates an 83 to 200 micrometre thick flap.\nThis piece of equipment is used all around the world to cut the cornea flap.\nThe microkeratome is also used in Descemet's stripping automated endothelial keratoplasty (DSAEK), where it is used to slice a thin layer from the back of the donor cornea, which is then transplanted into the posterior cornea of the recipient. It was invented by Jose Barraquer and Cesar Carlos Carriazo in the 1950s in Colombia.\n\n"}
{"id": "55997708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55997708", "title": "Mitelman Database of Chromosome Aberrations and Gene Fusions in Cancer", "text": "Mitelman Database of Chromosome Aberrations and Gene Fusions in Cancer\n\nThe Mitelman Database of Chromosome Aberrations and Gene Fusions in Cancer is a free access database devoted to chromosomes, genes, and cancer. A recent review noted that \"It was first published in 1983 as a book named \"The Catalog of Chromosome Aberrations in Cancer\", containing 3,844 cases. In 2000, it became an online database on open access hosted by the NCI.\nThe information is organized into sub-databases: The \"Cases Quick Searcher\" lists cytogenetic aberrations in individual cancer cases. The \"Molecular Biology Associations Searcher\" compile gene rearrangements in cancer. The \"Clinical Associations Searcher\" is based on tumor type.\nThis database shows raw data. It is very reliable as each case is manually collected by prominent experts: Felix Mitelman, Bertil Johansson, and Fredrik Mertens.\n\nTaking in consideration all the progress made in cancer cytogenetics, it would have been much slower without the Mitelman database.\" \nThe database was last updated on August 23, 2017, with a total number of cases = 67,625, and a total number of gene fusions = 10,933\n\n"}
{"id": "55361615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55361615", "title": "Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board", "text": "Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board\n\nMontgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board [2015] UKSC 11 is a Scottish delict, medical negligence and English tort law case on doctors and pharmacists that outlines the rule on the disclosure of risks to satisfy the criteria of an informed consent. The Supreme Court departed and overruled the earlier House of Lord's case in \"Sidaway v Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital\", in reconsidering the duty of care of a doctor towards a patient on medical treatment. The case changed the \"Bolam test\" to a greater test in medical negligence by introducing the general duty to attempt the disclosure of risks.\n\nThe claimant was a woman of small stature and a diabetic under the care of a doctor during her pregnancy and labour. The doctor did not inform her of the 9-10% risk of shoulder dystocia, where the baby's shoulders are unable to pass through the pelvis among diabetic women as she viewed the problem being very slight and a caesarean section was not in the claimant's interest. \n\nThe baby suffered from severe disabilities after birth due to shoulder dystocia. The claimant sought damages from the health board for negligence on the part of the doctor for failing to advise her on the risk of shoulder dystocia. The Court of Session ruled that there was no negligence based on the Bolam principle and that there was no causation since the claimant would not have submitted to a caesarean birth even if informed of the pregnancy risk.\n\nThe Supreme Court affirmed the requirement of 'informed choice' or 'informed consent' by patients in medical treatment that rests fundamentally on the duty of disclosure by medical practitioners. \n\nLords Kerr and Reed said: \n\nLords Neuberger, Clarke, Wilson and Hodge agreed.\n\nLady Hale gave a concurring opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "54434451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54434451", "title": "Motor planning", "text": "Motor planning\n\nIn psychology and neuroscience, motor planning is a set of processes related to the preparation of a movement that occurs during the reaction time (the time between the presentation of a stimulus to a person and that person's initiation of a motor response). Colloquially, the term applies to any process involved in the preparation of a movement during the reaction time, including perception-related and action-related processes. For example, the identification of a task-relevant stimulus is captured by the usual meaning of the term, “motor planning”, but this identification process is not strictly motor-related. Wong and colleagues (2015) have proposed a narrower definition to include only movement-related processes: \"Specification of the movement trajectory for the desired action, a description of how the will produce such an action, and finally a description of the full set of the joint trajectories or muscle activations required to execute the movement.\"\n"}
{"id": "19159618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19159618", "title": "NHS East of England", "text": "NHS East of England\n\nNHS East of England was a strategic health authority of the National Health Service in England. It operated in the East of England region, which is coterminous with the local government office region. The authority closed on 31 March 2013 as part of the Health and Social Care Act 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "21479194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21479194", "title": "Nepal Veterinary Association", "text": "Nepal Veterinary Association\n\nNepal Veterinary Association (NVA) was established in June 1967 and was legally registered in February 1969. The Association is affiliated as a member of World Veterinary Association (WVA) since 1998. It is a body of Nepalese veterinarians who hold, at least, a bachelor's degree in Veterinary Science. There is also provision for foreign veterinarian who want to work in Nepal and who are eligible to register as veterinarians in Nepal in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations. Until now about 655 veterinarians\nincluding 40 foreign nationals have been registered as member\nof the Association. \n\nNepal Veterinary Association has elected new committee under\nthe leadership of Dr. Sital Kaji Shresthathrough their 12th\nNational Convention held in Kathmandu from 1-3 June, 2016. A 16-member committee headed by Dr. Sital Kaji Shrestha includes\nDr. Nirmal Katuwal as vice president, Dr. Rajendra Prasad\nYadav as General Secretary, Dr. Tapendra Prasad Bohara as\nSecretary, Dr. Sudeep Keshav Humagain as a Treasurer, Dr.\nNeena Amatya Gorkhali as a chief editor. Central Members\nincluded Dr. Sulochana Shrestha, Dr. Binod Sanjel, Dr. Binod\nYadav, Dr. Sikesh Manandhar, Dr. Suraj Thapa. Regional\nCoordinator representing the board includes Dr. Sanjay Yadav,\nDr. Sita Rijal, Dr. Kishor Acharya, Dr. Shankar Pandey and Dr.\nMadan Singh Dhami.\n\nNepal Veterinary Association has members with wide\nrange of expertise in animal health and production, public\nhealth and natural resource management enabling the\nassociation fully capable for providing competent consultancy\nservice in these areas.\nThe association is committed to welfare of all Nepali veterinarians and provides services to Government of Nepal as well as the public and private sectors. The Nepalese Vet Journal and Vet Chaumasik are regular publications of this Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "51902139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51902139", "title": "Nestlé Bear Brand", "text": "Nestlé Bear Brand\n\nBear Brand is a powdered milk drink brand introduced in 1976, which is owned by Nestlé. It is available in most areas of Southeast Asia. Bear Brand was marketed under the brand name Marca Oso, which is Spanish for \"Bear Brand\". The brand's Indonesian name is Susu Cap Beruang. Bear Brand is also a sterilized milk brand. In 2014, a consumer research firm ranked Bear Brand milk as No. 6 among the top 50 \"most popular fast-moving consumer goods\" in the Philippines.\n\n\n\n\nIn Thailand, the Bear Brand Sterilized is branded by other variants. In Cambodia, Bear Brand is introduced in July 2015, while in Myanmar, Bear Brand is introduced in October 2016. Bear Brand's Indonesian package is in slim tube 189 ml content. In Switzerland, the brand is instead named \"Bärenmarke\" in German origin of name.\n\nIn 1976, the launch of the Bear Brand Powdered Milk included the bear with a cub and the wordmark. In 1996, the bears refreshed with a cartoony look in a shield appeared, but in 2002 the shape was changed with the current shield logo form. In 2004, the logo in some countries used the circle logo variant. In 2013, the Bear Brand logo font was changed from Franklin Gothic to Arial.\n\nIn the Philippines, they use the slogan \"Tibay Araw-Araw\" within 10 years starting from 2012–2022. Their present \"Laki Sa Gatas\" nutrition education advocacy program was first launched in 2006.\n\nIn 2015, Bear Brand's Alamat ng Matibay book was launched, which introduced the character Mina, and her friend Sonson.\n\n"}
{"id": "8430193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8430193", "title": "No Smoking Day", "text": "No Smoking Day\n\nNo Smoking Day is an annual health awareness day in the United Kingdom which is intended to help smokers who want to quit smoking. The first \"No Smoking Day\" was on Ash Wednesday in 1984, and it now takes place on the second Wednesday in March. \n\nEach year, the campaign is promoted with a theme in the form of a short phrase. In 2010, this theme was \"Break free\", encouraging smokers to break free from the chains of cigarettes and quit on \"No Smoking Day\". The 2011 theme was \"Time to quit?\". Research conducted by GfK NOP following the 2009 campaign found that 1 in 10 smokers quit on No Smoking Day.\n\nThe campaign was run by a charity of the same name, based in London with four full-time staff, until this was merged with the British Heart Foundation in 2011. It is funded by a coalition of governmental and voluntary sector organisations with an interest in health. No Smoking Day's most recent President was entrepreneur, TV personality, and anti-tobacco campaigner Duncan Bannatyne OBE. Bannatyne is an ex-smoker who publicly took on British American Tobacco at its AGM in April 2008. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7048545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7048545", "title": "Overcrowding", "text": "Overcrowding\n\nOvercrowding or crowding refers to the condition where more people are located within a given space than is considered tolerable from a safety and health perspective which will depend on current environment and local cultural norms. Overcrowding may arise temporarily and/or regularly, in the home, public spaces or on public transport. The former is of particular concern since it is an individual's place of shelter.\n\nEffects on quality of life due to crowding may be due to increased physical contact, lack of sleep, lack of privacy and poor hygiene practices. While population density is an objective measure of number of people living per unit area, overcrowding refers to people's psychological response to density. But, definitions of crowding used in statistical reporting and for administrative purposes are based on density measures and do not usually incorporate people’s perceptions of crowding.\n\nThe American Housing Survey is conducted by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) every two years. A 2007 literature review conducted for HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research found that the most commonly used measures of overcrowding are persons-per-room or persons-per-bedroom. The United States uses persons per room, and considers a household crowded if there is more than one person per room, and severely crowded if more than 1.5 persons share a room.\n\nThe World Health Organization is concerned with overcrowding of sleeping accommodation primarily as a risk for the spread of tuberculosis and has attempted to develop measurement indicators. \n\nThe Housing Act 1985 states:\n\n\"The room standard is contravened when the number of persons sleeping in a dwelling and the number of rooms available as sleeping accommodation is such that two persons of opposite sex who are not living together as husband and wife must sleep in the same room. For this purpose, children under the age of ten shall be left out of account, and a room is available as sleeping accommodation if it is of a type normally used in the locality either as a bedroom or as a living room.\"\n\nThe Housing Act describes how many persons are permitted per room, as well as amount of floor space per room as outlined in the table below. Children under 1 year are not counted, and children between 1 and 10 years are counted as half a unit. \nEurostat uses a stricter definition of overcrowding, known as 'the Bedroom Standard'. An overcrowded household is defined as one which has fewer rooms than the sum of:\nFor example, a household of a single person living alone is considered overcrowded unless he or she has a living room which is separate from the bedroom (points 1 and 3 apply). However while the Bedroom Standard is generally advocated by policy advocates, statutory space and occupancy standards are usually either less generous, partial (for instance they apply to social housing only) or non-existent.\n\nAccording to Eurostat, in 2011, 17.1% of EU population lived in overcrowded households by the above definition, with the number varying strongly between countries: the overcrowding rate stood at 43.1% in 12 newest member states compared to only 10.1% in 15 oldest members. Within the EU post-communist states, the extent to which the commodification of housing has improved occupancy standards appeared to be modest. For instance, during 2005-2010 the percentage of overcrowded population in Romania and Latvia remained the highest in the EU (55%). Conversely, the Czech Republic showed the best performance in 2010, with overcrowding falling from 33% to 22% over the period, becoming lower than in Italy and Greece. In the remaining EU post-communist states, overcrowding fell moderately over the period, accounting for 35-49% in 2010. Lifecycle has remained a powerful determinant of overcrowding. Eastern Europeans aged under 18 are on average 2.5 times more likely to experience overcrowding than those aged over 65. Affordability problems of young adults, who had to delay home leaving, contributed to unrelenting overcrowding, but so did the legacy of a housing stock composed of many small dwellings. In the EU post-communist states, between 51-87% of dwellings had no more than three rooms.\n\nSwedish statistics and politics have used three different definitions over the years:\nThe most dramatic change took place according to \"norm 2\" between 1960 and 1975 because of the Million Programme. Of the households that are regarded as overcrowded according to \"norm 3\", two thirds are single persons living in 1-room apartments without a separate living room.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17933780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17933780", "title": "Peter N. T. Wells", "text": "Peter N. T. Wells\n\nPeter Neil Temple Wells CBE DSc FMedSci FREng FIET FInstP FLSW FRS (19 May 1936 in Bristol, England – 22 April 2017) was a British medical physicist who played a major role in the application of ultrasound technology in medicine.\n\nWells was educated at Birmingham College of Advanced Technology and the University of Bristol where he was awarded his PhD in 1966.\n\nWells has made a number of notable contributions to the application of engineering and physics in medicine. He is the originator and developer of instruments for ultrasonic surgery and ultrasonic power measurement, as well as the two-dimensional, articulated-arm ultrasonic general purpose scanner and the water-immersion ultrasonic breast scanner.\n\nHe demonstrated ultrasonic-pulsed Doppler range gating, and was the discoverer of the ultrasonic Doppler signal characteristic of malignant tumour neovascularisation. He investigated ultrasonic bioeffects and formulated ultrasonic safety guidelines and conditions for prudent use of ultrasonic diagnosis.\n\nWells has led multidisciplinary studies of ultrasonic diagnosis and made major contributions to the advancement of light transmission, electrical impedance and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, as well as to interventional telepresence. He also proposed a novel philosophy of medical imaging. More recently, he has been developing ultrasonic Doppler and phase-insensitive tomography.\n\n"}
{"id": "3259830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3259830", "title": "Pharmacological chaperone", "text": "Pharmacological chaperone\n\nA pharmacological chaperone (or pharmacoperone, from \"protein chaperone\") is a small molecule that enters cells and serves as a molecular scaffolding in order to cause otherwise-misfolded mutant proteins to fold and route correctly within the cell.\n\nMutation of proteins often causes molecular misfolding, which results in protein misrouting within the cell. Accordingly, mutant molecules may retain proper function but end up in parts of the cell where the function is inappropriate, or even deleterious, to cell function. Misfolded proteins are usually recognized by the quality-control system of the cell and retained (and often destroyed or recycled)in the endoplasmic reticulum.\n\nPharmacoperones correct the folding of misfolded proteins, allowing them to pass through the cell's quality-control system and become correctly routed. Since mutations often cause disease by causing misfolding and misrouting, pharmacoperones are potentially therapeutic agents, since they are able to correct this defect.\n\nDiseases that may be susceptible to such treatments include diabetes, inherited cataracts and cystic fibrosis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17641601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641601", "title": "Rapid organ recovery ambulance", "text": "Rapid organ recovery ambulance\n\nA rapid organ recovery ambulance is \"a special ambulance to collect the bodies of people who have died suddenly from heart attacks, accidents and other emergencies and try to preserve their organs.\" New York City is launching a pilot program deploying one such ambulance with a $1.5 million, three-year grant.\n"}
{"id": "29252190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29252190", "title": "Rescue fusion hybridization", "text": "Rescue fusion hybridization\n\nRescue fusion hybridization is a process used to manufacture some therapeutic cancer vaccines in which individual tumor cells obtained through biopsy are fused with an antibody-secreting cell to form a heterohybridoma. This cell then secretes the unique idiotype, or immunoglobulin antigen characteristic of the individual tumor, which is purified for use as the vaccine.\n\nIt is used to produce the BiovaxID vaccine for follicular lymphoma.\n"}
{"id": "34959658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34959658", "title": "Smoking in Albania", "text": "Smoking in Albania\n\nSmoking in Albania is prevalent as about 40% of Albanians smoke regularly. In Europe, only Turkey has a higher smoking rate than Albania. \nAlbanians annually spend more than €300 million on tobacco products. Albania adopted tough anti-smoking laws in 2007, but they are not strictly enforced. Smoking prevalence is increasing, especially among females ages 13 to 15. The smoking rate for teens between the ages of 13 and 15 is currently 15%.\n\nAlthough the law technically forbids the smoking of cigarettes in public spaces like restaurants, bars, work places, etc., Albanians regularly smoke in those places, especially nights and weekends. The smoking ban is generally followed on public transport in Tirana as people put out cigarettes before boarding buses.\n\nZog I of Albania was reported to smoke 200 cigarettes a day, making him possibly the heaviest smoker of his generation.\n"}
{"id": "6970928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6970928", "title": "Student Global AIDS Campaign", "text": "Student Global AIDS Campaign\n\nThe Student Global AIDS Campaign (SGAC) is an advocacy group with more than 85 chapters at high schools, colleges, and universities across the United States. The group is committed to bringing an end to HIV and AIDS in the U.S. and around the world, and uses a wide variety of tactics to achieve its goals, including education on campuses, letter-writing and calling campaigns to decision-makers, public demonstrations, media work, and other activist tactics.\n\nThe organization often describes its mission in the shorthand 'Fund the Fight, Treat the People, Drop the Debt, Stop the Spread'. The fuller vision statement is: \"We envision a world in which AIDS is no longer a death sentence, in which economics and geography do not determine access to life-saving drugs, and where every woman, man, and child has the knowledge, means, and rights to protect her- or himself from infection.\" The campaign has therefore pushed for access to antiretroviral drugs, the elimination of third world debt, reform of global trade rules, and access to condoms.\n\n\nIn February 2001, the Student Global AIDS Campaign and its parent organization, Global Justice, were founded simultaneously by students at Harvard and the Kennedy School of Government who saw the untapped potential of students to advocate political and social change on global HIV and AIDS and other issues of global justice. Global Justice became officially incorporated as a 501 (c)(3) organization, with the Student Global AIDS Campaign as its first campaign.\n\nThe first conference was a New England regional conference hosted by Harvard in the fall of 2001. That spring and the next fall regional conferences were also held at Indiana University, the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and Williams College. In the spring of 2003, SGAC organized its first national conference (hosted by George Washington University), which was attended by more than 500 students from around the country.\n\nAs SGAC’s chapter base has grown so has its capacity for effective advocacy. SGAC’s first large rally was held in Boston in the spring of 2002 to demand that Senator John Kerry (who had declared himself the Senate AIDS leader) significantly increase the amount of funding for the Global Fund in the bill he was then writing.\n\nSGAC is a youth- and student-led organization organized into chapters based at high schools or universities. There is a national Steering Committee (SC) of students from across the country. Elected by SGAC members for one-year terms, SC members deal with the day-to-day operation of the campaign and fill roles ranging from media coordination to outreach work. Decisions are made by consensus.\n\nThe Student Global AIDS Campaign's parent organization, Global Justice, is also home to other student-led campaigns on global trade and child survival. Global Justice also employs the staff that work on the Student Global AIDS Campaign, including a full-time national organizer, a shared executive director, and support/communications staff. Global Justice is governed by a board of directors which has included such activists and intellectuals as Jeffrey Sachs, Paul Farmer, and ACT UP co-founder Eric Sawyer, as well as students from each of the group's campaigns. There is also an emerging alumni group of previous leaders who have now graduated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2498975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498975", "title": "Teledentistry", "text": "Teledentistry\n\nTeledentistry is the use of information technology and telecommunications for dental care, consultation, education, and public awareness (compare telehealth and telemedicine). \n\nIn 1994, the Department of Defence introduced the Total Dental Access Program (TDA) for the Army. The goals of TDA were to increase soldier’s access to care and reduce associated costs. At the time, they used what was called the plain-old-telephone-system (POTS). \n\nIn the early nineteen nineties, videoconferencing, e-mail, fax, and telephone calls were used but more recently , video conferencing and high-quality image transfer have become easily accessible. These, and the considerable improvements in digital camera technology, have provide radical new opportunities. \n\nNearly a third of all Americans don’t visit a dentist regularly enough, according to the Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index. There are many reasons for this, most notably; affordability, access and fear. \n\nTeledentistry can provide easier, cheaper and less intimidating way to connect with dentistry. Teledentistry can also be used to assist general dentists with speciality work and improve services to underserved populations such as in rural or less developed areas.\n"}
{"id": "742032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742032", "title": "The Kallikak Family", "text": "The Kallikak Family\n\nThe Kallikak Family: A Study in the Heredity of Feeble-Mindedness was a 1912 book by the American psychologist and eugenicist Henry H. Goddard. The work was an extended case study of Goddard's for the inheritance of \"feeble-mindedness,\" a general category referring to a variety of mental disabilities including intellectual disability, learning disabilities, and mental illness. Goddard concluded that a variety of mental traits were hereditary and that society should limit reproduction by people possessing these traits.\n\nThe name Kallikak is a pseudonym used as a family name throughout the book. Goddard coined the name from the Greek words καλός (\"kallos\") meaning good and κακός (\"kakos\") meaning bad. \n\nThe book begins by discussing the case of \"Deborah Kallikak\" (real name Emma Wolverton, 1889–1978), a woman in Goddard's institution, the New Jersey Home for the Education and Care of Feebleminded Children (now Vineland Training School). In the course of investigating her genealogy, Goddard claims to have discovered that her family tree bore a curious and surprising moral tale.\n\nThe book follows the genealogy of Martin Kallikak, Deborah's great-great-great grandfather, a Revolutionary War hero married to a Quaker woman. On his way back from battle the normally morally upright Martin dallied one time with a \"feeble-minded\" barmaid. He impregnated her and then abandoned her. The young Martin soon reformed and went on with his upright life, becoming a respected New England citizen and father of a large family of prosperous individuals. All of the children that came from this relationship were \"wholesome\" and had no signs of developmental disabilities.\n\nBut according to Goddard, a child was born by the dalliance with \"the nameless feeble-minded girl\". This single child, a male, called Martin Kallikak Jr. in the book (real name John Wolverton, 1776–1861), went on to father more children, who fathered their own children, and on and on down the generations. And so with the Kallikaks, Goddard claims to have discovered, one has as close as one could imagine an experiment in the hereditability of intelligence, moral ability, and criminality.\n\nOn the \"feeble-minded\" side of the Kallikak family, descended from the abandoned single-parent barmaid, the children wound up poor, mentally ill, delinquent, and intellectually disabled. Deborah was, in Goddard's assessment, \"feeble-minded\": a catch-all early 20th century term to describe various forms of intellectual or learning disabilities. Goddard was interested in the heritability of \"feeble-mindedness\"—and often wrote of the invisible threat of recessive \"feeble-minded\" genes carried by otherwise healthy and intelligent looking members of the population (Mendel's laws had only been rediscovered a decade before; Goddard's genetic shorthand was, in its day, considered to be on par with cutting-edge science). It was in tracing the family history of Deborah that Goddard and his assistants discovered that Deborah's family of drunks and criminals was related—through Martin Kallikak—to another family tree of economy and prosperity.\n\nOn the \"normal\" side of the Kallikak family tree, the children Martin had with his wife and their descendants all ended up prosperous, intelligent, and morally upstanding. They were lawyers, ministers, and doctors. None were \"feeble-minded\". Goddard concluded from this that intelligence, sanity, and morality were hereditary, and every effort should be undertaken to keep the 'feeble-minded' from procreating, with the overall goal of potentially ending 'feeble-mindedness' and its accompanying traits. The damage from even one dalliance between a young man and a \"feeble-minded\" woman could create generations and generations worth of crime and poverty, with its members eventually living off the generosity of the state (and consequently taxpayers), Goddard argued. His work contains intricately constructed family trees, showing near-perfect Mendelian ratios in the inheritance of negative and positive traits.\n\nGoddard recommended segregating them in institutions, where they would be taught how to work various forms of menial labor.\n\nIn its day, \"The Kallikak Family\" was a tremendous success and went through multiple printings. It helped propel Goddard to the status of one of the nation's top experts in using psychology in policy, and along with the work of Charles B. Davenport and Madison Grant is considered one of the canonical works of early 20th-century American eugenics.\n\nResearch published in 2001 by David MacDonald and Nancy McAdams revealed that Goddard's account of the division of the Kallikak family into a \"good\" lineage—descended from Martin Kallikak Sr. and his wife—and a \"bad\" lineage—descended from Martin Kallikak Sr. and an unnamed feeble-minded barmaid—was fictitious. Martin Kallikak Jr., the supposedly illegitimate offspring of Martin Kallikak Sr. and the barmaid, was in fact the son of Gabriel Wolverton and his wife Catherine Murray. His real name was John Wolverton (1776–1861), and he was a landowner prosperous enough to buy two tracts of land for cash in 1809. Census records of 1850 show that all the adults in his household (which included Wolverton, one daughter, and several grandchildren) were able to read. The \"bad\" side of the Kallikak family included poor farmers but also school teachers, an Army Air Corps pilot, and a bank treasurer.\n\nIt has been argued that the effects of malnutrition were overlooked in the Kallikak family. Goddard's peer, Davenport, even identified various forms of diseases now known to be caused by diet deficiencies as being hereditary.\n\nAnother perspective has been offered that the Kallikaks almost certainly had undiagnosed fetal alcohol syndrome. In addition to poverty and malnourishment, prenatal alcohol exposure can create craniofacial and other physical anomalies that could account for their peculiar facial features. Furthermore, prenatal alcohol exposure may also damage the central nervous system, which can result in impaired cognitive and behavioral functioning similar to that described by Goddard.\n\nThe paleontologist and science writer Stephen Jay Gould advanced the view that Goddard—or someone working with him—had retouched the photographs used in his book in order to make the \"bad\" Kallikaks appear more menacing. In older editions of the books, Gould said, it has become clearly evident that someone has drawn in darker, crazier looking eyes and menacing faces on the children and adults in the pictures. Gould argues that photographic reproduction in books was still then a very new art, and that audiences would not have been as keenly aware of photographic retouching, even on such a crude level. The 14 photos were subsequently studied further to show the nature of the retouching and subsequent use to help make Goddard's points.\n\nThe psychologist R. E. Fancher, however, has claimed that retouching of faces of the sort which is apparent in Goddard's work was a common procedure at the time, in order to avoid a \"washed out\" look which was common to early photographic printing methods (poor halftones). Furthermore, Fancher argued, malicious editing on Goddard's part would take away from one of his primary claims: that only a trained eye can spot the moron in the crowd.\n\nThe overall effect of \"The Kallikak Family\" was to temporarily increase funding to institutions such as Goddard's, but these were not seen to be worthwhile solutions of the problem of \"feeble-mindedness\" (much less \"rogue\" \"feeble-mindedness\"—the threat of idiocy as a recessive trait), and more stringent methods, such as compulsory sterilization of people with intellectual disabilities, were undertaken.\n\nThe term \"Kallikak\" became, along with \"Jukes\" and \"Nams\" (other case studies of similar natures), a cultural shorthand for the rural poor in the South and Northeast United States.\n\nIn August 1977, NBC premiered a situation comedy called \"The Kallikaks\", which depicted the comic misadventures of an Appalachian family that moved to California and feuded with another family named the Jukes; the series lasted only five episodes. A June 8, 1987, cartoon in \"The New Yorker\" provided a further update to the concept, depicting \"The Jukes and Kallikaks Today\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6157967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6157967", "title": "The Radiology – Integrated Training Initiative", "text": "The Radiology – Integrated Training Initiative\n\n\nThe Radiology – Integrated Training Initiative is a public-sector UK programme to provide an increased number of high-quality radiologists by 2008. \n\nR-ITI is a collaboration between the Royal College of Radiologists, the UK Department of Health and the NHS. It is tasked with providing three new radiology academies, a national archive of peer-validated cases (Validated Case Archive), and over 1,000 e-learning sessions for self-paced learning & knowledge acquisition.\n\nThe UK is currently not producing enough UK trained radiologists to meet clinical need. Calculations show that traditional training will not produce the necessary increase in numbers. Training schemes are becoming saturated and consultant training time is pressurised by heavy service workloads. \n\nThe Radiology Integrated Training Initiative (R-ITI) has been created to respond to this need and develop a new approach to training radiologists, increasing capacity to meet demand without putting additional strain on current resources. \n\nThree academies have been established, one in Leeds, one in Norwich at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital and one in Plymouth. A fourth academy has been announced in South Wales, to begin intake in August 2017. Each academy offers trainees access to: \n\nThe Integrated Training Initiative (ITI) creates a stimulating learning environment by combining different teaching methods. These methods include: \n\n"}
{"id": "1143193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143193", "title": "Transition nuclear protein", "text": "Transition nuclear protein\n\nTransition nuclear proteins (TNPs) are proteins that are involved in the packaging of sperm nuclear DNA during spermiogenesis. They take the place of histones associated with the sperm DNA, and are subsequently themselves replaced by protamines. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22030972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22030972", "title": "Water district", "text": "Water district\n\nA water district is a special district given the task of supplying water and sewer needs to a community.\n\n"}
{"id": "4082887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4082887", "title": "Worth 4 dot test", "text": "Worth 4 dot test\n\nThe Worth Four Light Test, also known as the Worth's Four Dot test or W4LT, is a clinical test mainly used for assessing a patient's degree of binocular vision and binocular single vision. Binocular vision involves an image being projected by each eye simultaneously into an area in space and being fused into a single image. The Worth Four Light Test is also used in detection of suppression of either the right or left eye. Suppression occurs during binocular vision when the brain does not process the information received from either of the eyes. This is a common adaptation to strabismus, amblyopia and aniseikonia.\n\nThe W4LT can be performed by the examiner at two distances, at near (at 33 cm from the patient) and at far (at 6m from the patient). At both testing distances the patient is required to wear red-green goggles (with one red lens over one eye, usually the right, and one green lens over the left) When performing the test at far (distance) the W4LT instrument is composed of a silver box (mounted on the wall in front of the patient), which has 4 lights inside it. The 4 lights are arranged in a diamond formation, with a red light at the top, two green lights at either side (left and right) and a white light at the bottom. When performing the test at near (at 33 cm ) the 4 lights are arranged in exactly the same manner (diamond formation), with the difference being that at near, the 4 lights are located in a hand held instrument which is similar to a light torch.\n\nBecause the red filter blocks the green light and the green filter blocks the red light, it is possible to determine if the patient is using both eyes simultaneously and in a coordinated manner. With both eyes open, a patient with normal binocular vision will appreciate four lights. If the patient either closes or suppresses an eye they will see either two or three lights. If the patient does not fuse the images of the two eyes, they will see five lights (diplopia).\n\nThe Worth Four Light Test is indicated for use when assessing the binocular functions, the ability of eyes to work in coordination, of an individual. It can be used to develop a diagnosis or to support or confirm an initial diagnosis. It can be used when wanting to assess whether the individual has a normal or abnormal binocular single vision response (BSV). It can be used to establish whether a patient has the ability for the eyes to fuse the light that is received from each eye into 4 lights. The test is indicated with the use of a presence of a prism in individuals with a strabismus and fusion is considered present if 4 lights are maintained, with or without the use of a prism. The W4LT can also be indicated when aiding a person to develop and strengthen their fusional capacities.\n\nIf the images are unable to be fused the W4LT is still indicated to help to determine if an individual appreciates diplopia (double vision) or are suppressing an image from one eye. In cases of manifest strabismus the test can help in determining the nature and type of the diplopia or which eye is suppressing. Therefore, is indicated in cases of a suspected central suppression scotoma as it can be used to detect where the lights may not be appreciated from the eye with the scotoma though in some cases of minimal deviation in the eye as demonstrated in a microtropic deviation a normal response of 4 lights may be reported. Though it can be used in these patients to prove the presence of peripheral fusion and that they have bi-foveal fixation.\n\nOther indications for the test include establishing an individual's dominant eye dominant eye compared to the other and when evaluating reduced monocular visual acuity which shows no improve on pinhole testing.\nWhilst there are no contraindications of the W4LT there needs to be caution in interpreting the results of individuals with BSV in natural conditions as they may show a diplopic response under the dissociation of the test. Also in individuals who have abnormal retinal correspondence (ARC) they may provide an unexpected response, and those who have misaligned visual axis whom in natural conditions suppress may actually provide a diplopic response upon testing.\n\nThe Worth Four Light Test is relatively simple to undertake. First you must place the red/green goggles over the patients eyes, with the red goggle traditionally placed over the right eye.\n\nNext you must dim the room lighting. This allows the patient to see the lights better.\n\nFor a distance measurement, you should have the patient set up six metres away from the light source. For a near measurement, the test should be performed at approximately one third of a metre, or thirty three centimetres, with a handheld Worth’s Four Lights torch.\n\nThen, ask the patient what they see. They should respond with “I see … number of lights” provided they have understood what you have asked them.\nAsk them to describe the lights to you. You must ask about the colour of the lights. If they see five lights, ask whether the green dots are higher or lower than the red dots. Ask about the positioning of the dots, for example are the red dots to the left or the right of the green dots. Also ask if the dots are flashing on and off or switching between red and green.\n\nThis series of questions is essential in order to ensure you correctly record exactly what the patient is seeing, so that the clinician can interpret the patient’s results and then make an accurate diagnosis.\n\nWhen recording results for the W4LT it is important to ask the patient a series of questions in order to ensure you correctly record exactly what they are seeing. This is essential in order to interpret the patient’s results and then make an accurate diagnosis.\n\nThe questions are:\n\nWhen recording results it is important to indicate the test used, a description of the lights seen and an indication of what the result means. It is also important to note the distance at which the test was conducted and whether or not the patient wore their own refractive correction.\n\nWhere communication is difficult between clinician and patient, such as in the presence of a language barrier, or when working with a child, it may be a good idea to get the patient to draw what they are seeing. The clinician can then interpret the results from the image.\n\nThere are a number of possible results demonstrated by a W4LT\n\nIn the absence of a deviation, the patient will see the lights exactly as they appear. When questioned they will report that:\n\nThis is recorded as :\nW4LT (D): 4 lights (BSV)\n\nIt will be demonstrated on cover test that the patient has a manifest deviation. When questioned about the lights the patient will give a normal response and will see the lights exactly as they appear.\nThey will report that:\n\nThis is recorded as :\nW4LT (D): 4 lights (ARC)\n\nNB: ARC can only be confirmed in conjunction with additional clinical tests for retinal correspondence. The patient must demonstrate a manifest deviation on cover test. Despite their apparent deviation, when tested with the W4LT they will produce a normal BSV result, indicating the presence of Abnormal Retinal Correspondence.\n\nIn an Esotropic (ET) deviation, the patient will experience uncrossed diplopia. When questioned about the position of the lights, they will report that:\n\nThis is recorded as: W4LT (D): 5 lights (Uncrossed Diplopia) ET\n\nNB: The clinician will be unable to indicate which eye is the deviating eye based on these results alone. The results should be interpreted with other clinical findings in order to produce a final diagnosis.\n\nIn an Exotropic (XT) deviation, the patient will experience crossed diplopia.\n\nWhen questioned about the position of the lights, they will report that:\n\nThis is recorded as:\nW4LT (D): 5 lights (Crossed Diplopia) XT\n\nNB: The clinician will be unable to indicate which eye is the deviating eye based on these results alone. The results should be interpreted with other clinical findings in order to produce a final diagnosis.\n\nIn cases of vertical deviations, patients will report that:\nWhich is interpreted as : R HT or LHypoT\nWhich is interpreted as: RHypoT or L H T\n\nThis is recorded as: W4LT (D): 5 lights (Vertical Diplopia)\n\nThe clinician can relate the position of the lights directly back to the deviation and height of the eye (i.e.) the higher lights belong to the higher eye, and the lower lights belong to the lower eye\n\nNB: If the lights are not situated directly above one another, but are also separated horizontally, it is normally indicative of a mixed deviation where there is a horizontal, as well as vertical strabismus present\n\nIn cases of manifest strabismus, it is not always expected that the patient will experience diplopia.\n\nSuppression is indicated when the patient reports that:\nWhich is interpreted as R Suppression\nWhich is interpreted as L Suppression\nAll 5 lights are never present at the same time, but the patient is switching between the two responses.\nThis result is interpreted as Alternating Suppression\n\nThis can be recorded as:\n\nW4LT (D): 3 Lights (R Supp.)\n\nW4LT (D): 2 Lights (L Supp.)\n\nW4LT (D): 2 or 3 Lights (Alt. Supp.)\n\nAdvantages \n\nDisadvantages\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
