{"id": "2294898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294898", "title": "1806 in archaeology", "text": "1806 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1806 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n"}
{"id": "34945826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34945826", "title": "Access Books", "text": "Access Books\n\nAccess Books is a nonprofit volunteer organization that gives books to disadvantaged children’s libraries in Southern California. These are primarily public and charter school libraries in the inner city, where over 90% of the population lives in poverty and books are generally scarce. As one study showed, children in Beverly Hills have ready access to as many as 400 times more books than children living in the Compton and Watts areas of South Los Angeles. Underfunded libraries also tend to be in worse physical condition and less user-friendly than their affluent counterparts.\n\nRebecca Constantino founded Access Books in 1999 while doing graduate research on the roles of school and community libraries in Los Angeles. Working with a school in Brentwood, she discovered a plan to throw away hundreds of books to make way for new ones. She salvaged the rejected books and donated them to a public school in Compton. The library at this elementary school had been closed for so long that “the door was locked and no one knew where the keys had gone.” This was the start of Access Books. As Constantino said, \"If you take away poverty as a predictor, the state of the school library is the best indicator of literacy, reading achievement, success in school. I can't possibly take away poverty…. But I can do something about the libraries in our children's schools.” \n\nSo far, Access Books has given more than 1.3 million new and used books to over 200 libraries and community centers in Southern California. Primarily intended to encourage reading for pleasure, these books include popular fiction, early picture and chapter books, biographies, classics, and young adult novels. The emphasis on pleasure reading is intended to encourage children to become motivated readers; to help provide them with a foundation for all reading, including academic reading.\n\nAccess Books acquires new books via donations from publishers and distributors or buying them at a discount with grants from charities, businesses, or wealthy individuals. Recipient libraries may request specific titles that are of particular interest to their communities. Used books mostly come from individual donations and book drives by ad hoc groups or local organizations such as middle-class suburban and private schools. Access Books encourages partnerships between schools that have resources and those needing them, as with a book drive led by two students at Oaks Christian School, a private school in Westlake Village. This drive yielded over 11,000 books for new charter schools in North Hollywood and downtown L.A.\n\nAccess Books delivers and helps process the thousands of books that go to each library. At Saturday library events scheduled during the school year, volunteers from Access Books and the donating and receiving schools together sort, label, and shelve the books. This reduces overhead and speeds up the availability of the books for use. To further improve the libraries, volunteers also paint colorful literacy-themed murals and install items such as comfortable furniture and rugs for reading. The Saturday events expedite this work and facilitate contact between diverse communities.\n\nAccess Books fundraisers and community outreach events have included book signings with authors Jamie Lee Curtis, Cornelia Funke, and Jeff Kinney as well as conferences for young writers and illustrators. The conferences, held at venues such as the Milken Community High School and UCLA, have included keynote speakers and workshops led by professional writers.\n\n"}
{"id": "86726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86726", "title": "Ashmolean Museum", "text": "Ashmolean Museum\n\nThe Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology on Beaumont Street, Oxford, England, is the world's first university museum. Its first building was erected in 1678–83 to house the cabinet of curiosities that Elias Ashmole gave to the University of Oxford in 1677.\n\nThe present building was erected 1841–45. The museum reopened in 2009 after a major redevelopment. In November 2011, new galleries focusing on Egypt and Nubia were unveiled. In May 2016, the museum opened new galleries of 19th-century art.\n\nThe museum opened on 24 May 1683, with naturalist Robert Plot as the first keeper. The building on Broad Street, which became known as the Old Ashmolean, is sometimes attributed to Sir Christopher Wren or Thomas Wood. Elias Ashmole had acquired the collection from the gardeners, travellers, and collectors John Tradescant the Elder and his son, John Tradescant the Younger. It included antique coins, books, engravings, geological specimens, and zoological specimens—one of which was the stuffed body of the last dodo ever seen in Europe; but by 1755 the stuffed dodo was so moth-eaten that it was destroyed, except for its head and one claw.\n\nThe present building dates from 1841–45. It was designed as the University Galleries by Charles Cockerell in a classical style and stands on Beaumont Street. One wing of the building is occupied by the Taylor Institution, the modern languages faculty of the university, standing on the corner of Beaumont Street and St Giles' Street. This wing of the building was also designed by Charles Cockerell, using the Ionic order of Greek architecture.\nSir Arthur Evans (1851–1941), who was appointed keeper in 1884 and retired in 1908, is largely responsible for the current Museum. Evans found that the Keeper and the Vice-Chancellor (Prof Benjamin Jowett (1817–1893)) had managed to lose half of the Ashmole collection and had converted the original building into the Examination Rooms. Charles Drury Edward Fortnum (1820–1899) had offered to donate his personal collection of antiques on condition that the museum was put on a sound footing. A donation of £10,000 from Fortnum (£ as of 2018) enabled Evans to build an extension to the University Galleries and move the Ashmolean collection there in 1894. In 1908, the Ashmolean and the University Galleries were combined as the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology. The museum became a depository for some of the important archaeological finds from Evans' excavations in Crete.\n\nAfter the various specimens had been moved into new museums, the \"Old Ashmolean\" building was used as office space for the \"Oxford English Dictionary\". Since 1924, the building has been established as the Museum of the History of Science, with exhibitions including the scientific instruments given to Oxford University by Lewis Evans (1853–1930), amongst them the world's largest collection of astrolabes.\n\nCharles Buller Heberden (1849–1921) left £1,000 (£ as of 2018) to the University, which was used for the Coin Room at the museum.\n\nIn 2012, the Ashmolean was awarded a grant of $1.1m by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to establish the University Engagement Programme or UEP. The programme employs three Teaching Curators and a Programme Director to develop the use of the Museum's collections in the teaching and research of the University.\n\nThe interior of the Ashmolean has been extensively modernised in recent years and now includes a restaurant and large gift shop.\n\nIn 2000, the Chinese Picture Gallery, designed by van Heyningen and Haward Architects, opened at the entrance of the Ashmolean and is partly integrated into the structure. It was inserted into a lightwell in the Grade 1 listed building, and was designed to support future construction from its roof. Apart from the original Cockerell spaces, this gallery was the only part of the museum retained in the rebuilding. The gallery houses the Ashmolean’s own collection and is also used from time to time for the display of loan exhibitions and works by contemporary Chinese artists. It is the only museum gallery in Britain devoted to Chinese paintings.\n\nThe Sackler Library, incorporating the older library collections of the Ashmolean, opened in 2001 and has allowed an expansion of the book collection, which concentrates on classical civilization, archaeology and art history.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2009, the museum was expanded to the designs of architect Rick Mather and the exhibition design company Metaphor, supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund. The $98.2 million rebuilding resulted in five floors instead of three, with a doubling of the display space, as well as new conservation studios and an education centre. The renovated museum re-opened on 7 November 2009.\n\nOn 26 November 2011, the Ashmolean opened to the public the new galleries of Ancient Egypt and Nubia. This second phase of major redevelopment now allows the museum to exhibit objects that have been in storage for decades, more than doubling the number of coffins and mummies on display. The project received lead support from Lord Sainsbury’s Linbury Trust, along with the Selz Foundation, Mr Christian Levett, as well as other trusts, foundations, and individuals. Rick Mather Architects led the redesign and display of the four previous Egypt galleries and the extension to the restored Ruskin Gallery, previously occupied by the museum shop.\n\nIn May 2016, the museum opened new galleries dedicated to the display of its collection of Victorian art. This development allowed for the return to the Ashmolean of the Great Bookcase, designed by William Burges, and described as \"the most important example of Victorian painted furniture ever made.\".\n\nThe main museum contains huge collections of archaeological specimens and fine art. It has one of the best collections of Pre-Raphaelite paintings, majolica pottery, and English silver. The archaeology department includes the bequest of Arthur Evans and so has an excellent collection of Greek and Minoan pottery. The department also has an extensive collection of antiquities from Ancient Egypt and the Sudan, and the museum hosts the Griffith Institute for the advancement of Egyptology.\n\nHighlights of the Ashmolean's collection include:\n\n\nRecent major bequests and acquisitions include:\n\nIn 2013 a museum was opened in the 17th-century \"Tudor House\" at Broadway, Worcestershire, in the Cotswolds, in partnership with the Ashmolean Museum. In 2017 the museum became known as the Broadway Museum and Art Gallery. The collection includes paintings and furniture from the founding collections of the Ashmolean Museum, given by Elias Ashmole to the University of Oxford in 1683, and local exhibits expand upon elements of the timeline of the village.\n\nMajor exhibitions and temporary displays in 2018 include:\n\nMajor exhibitions in recent years include:\n\nBeginning in 1973, the position of Keeper was superseded by that of Director:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 31 December 1999, during the fireworks that accompanied the celebration of the , thieves used scaffolding on an adjoining building to climb onto the roof of the Ashmolean Museum and stole Cézanne’s landscape painting \"View of Auvers-sur-Oise\". Valued at £3 million, the painting has been described as an important work illustrating the transition from early to mature Cézanne painting. As the thieves ignored other works in the same room, and the stolen Cézanne has not been offered for sale, it is speculated that this was a case of an artwork stolen to order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24859224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24859224", "title": "Barytonesis", "text": "Barytonesis\n\nIn phonology, barytonesis, or \"recessive accent\", is the shift of accent from the last or following syllable on any non-final or preceding syllable of the stem, as in John Donne's poetic line: \"but éxtreme sense hath made them desperate\", the Balto-Slavic Pedersen's law and Aeolic Greek barytonesis. The opposite, the accent shift to the last syllable is called oxytonesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "20218615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218615", "title": "Birth spacing", "text": "Birth spacing\n\nBirth spacing, pregnancy spacing, or inter-pregnancy interval refers to how soon after a prior pregnancy a woman becomes pregnant or gives birth again. There are health risks associated both with pregnancies placed closely together and those placed far apart, but the majority of health risks are associated with births that occur too close together. The March of Dimes recommends a minimum of 18 months before becoming pregnant again following an uncomplicated vaginal delivery of a full term infant; the WHO recommends 24 months. A shorter interval may be appropriate if the pregnancy ended in abortion or miscarriage, typically 6 months. If the mother has had a prior C-section, it is advisable to wait before giving birth again due to the risk of uterine rupture in the mother during childbirth, with recommendations of a minimum inter-delivery interval ranging from a year to three years. Pregnancy intervals longer than 5 years are associated with an increased risk of pre-eclampsia. The global public heath burden of short inter-pregnancy intervals is substantial. Family planning can help increase inter-pregnancy interval.\n\nFamily planning, such as the use of contraceptives can increase inter-pregnancy interval. Breastfeeding and extended breastfeeding can also increase birth spacing due to lactational amenorrhea.\n\nCultural and religious attitudes towards both sex and the use of contraceptives, price and availability of health care, and poverty are all factors which can decrease inter-pregnancy intervals.\n\nShort inter-pregnancy interval is associated with an increase in maternal mortality, stillbirth, and child mortality. Inter-pregnancy interval of lower than 18 months is associated with an increased risk of pre-term birth. \n\nShort inter-pregnancy interval after a prior C-section can be a contraindication for having a vaginal birth after a prior C-section (VBAC). In one study inter-pregnancy intervals shorter than 6 months were associated with 2-3 times increased risk of uterine rupture, major morbidity, and blood transfusion during vaginal delivery in mothers with at least one prior C-section. \n\nComplications of a short inter-pregnancy interval are lower after an abortion or miscarriage compared to a full-term pregnancy. \n\nA inter-pregnancy interval of greater than 5 years is associated in an increased risk of pre-eclampsia.\n\nThe global public heath burden of short inter-pregnancy intervals is substantial. In developing countries, children born two years or early after an older sibling were at a 60% increased risk of death in infancy, while those born between two and three years had a 10% increase, compared with those born after intervals of four to five years. Various organisations, including the World Health Organization and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have identified birth spacing as an important area of public health intervention. \n"}
{"id": "16241224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16241224", "title": "Carolina Algonquian language", "text": "Carolina Algonquian language\n\nCarolina Algonquian (also known as Pamlico, Croatoan, or Lumbee) is an extinct Algonquian language of the Eastern Algonquian subgroup formerly spoken in North Carolina, United States. Carolina Algonquian language was formerly spoken by Secotan (later known as Machapunga), Chowanoke and Weapemeoc (subgroups Poteskeit and Paspatank) peoples.\n\nIn 1584 Sir Walter Raleigh had despatched the first of a number of expeditions to Roanoke Island to explore and eventually settle the New World. Early encounters with the natives were friendly, and, despite the difficulties in communication, the explorers were able to persuade \"two of the savages, being lustie men, whose names were Wanchese and Manteo\" to accompany them on the return voyage to London, in order for the English people to report both the conditions of the New World that they had explored and what the usefulness of the territory might be to the English\n\nOnce safely delivered to England, the two Indians quickly made a sensation at court. Raleigh's priority however was not publicity but rather intelligence about his new land of Virginia, and he restricted access to the exotic newcomers, assigning the brilliant scientist Thomas Harriot with the job of deciphering and learning the Carolina Algonquian language., using a phonetic alphabet of his own invention in order to effect the translation.\n\nCarolina Algonkian forms a part of the same language group as Powhatan or \"Virginia Algonquian\", a similarly extinct language of the Eastern Algonquian subgroup of the Algonquian language family, itself a member of the Algic language family. Powhatan was spoken by the Powhatan people of tidewater Virginia until the late 18th century, dying out in the 1790s after speakers switched to English.\n\nWhat little is known of Powhatan is by way of wordlists recorded by William Strachey (about 500 words) and Captain John Smith (about 50 words). Smith also reported a pidgin form of Powhatan, but almost nothing is known of it.\n\nSmith's material was collected between 1607 and 1609, and published in 1612 and again in 1624. There is no indication of the location where he collected his material. Strachey's material was collected sometime between 1610 and 1611, and probably written up from his notes in 1612 and 1613, after he had returned to England. It was never published, and remained in manuscript form, although Strachey made a second copy in 1618. The second copy was published in 1849, and the first in 1955.\n\nThe Carolina Algonquian language is now extinct, and the communities in which it flourished are gone. However, a number of Algonquian loan words have survived by being absorbed into the English language. Among them are: moccasin, moose, opossum, papoose, pecan, raccoon, skunk, squash, squaw, and wigwam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6749", "title": "Cheerleading", "text": "Cheerleading\n\nCheerleading is an activity wherein the participants (referred to as \"cheerleaders\") cheer for their team as a form of encouragement. It can range from chanting slogans to intense physical activity. It can be performed to motivate sports teams, to entertain the audience, or for competition. Competitive routines typically range anywhere from one to three minutes, and contain components of tumbling, dance, jumps, cheers, and stunting.\n\nCheerleading originated in the United States, and remains predominantly in America, with an estimated 1.5 million participants in all-star cheerleading. The global presentation of cheerleading was led by the 1997 broadcast of ESPN's International cheerleading competition, and the worldwide release of the 2000 film \"Bring It On\". Due in part to this recent exposure, there are now an estimated 100,000 participants scattered around the globe in Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, Finland, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.\n\nCheerleading began during the late 18th century with the rebellion of male students. After the American Revolutionary War, students experienced harsh treatment from teachers. In response to faculty's abuse, college students violently acted out. The undergraduates began to riot, burn down buildings located on their college campuses, and assault faculty members. As a more subtle way to gain independence, however, students invented and organized their own extracurricular activities outside their professors' control. This brought about American sports, beginning first with collegiate teams.\n\nIn the 1860s, students from Great Britain began to cheer and chant in unison for their favorite athletes at sporting events. Soon, that gesture of support crossed overseas to America.\n\nOn November 6, 1869, the United States witnessed its first intercollegiate football game. It took place between Princeton and Rutgers University, and marked the day the original \"Sis Boom Rah!\" cheer was shouted out by student fans.\n\nOrganized cheerleading started as an all-male activity. As early as 1877, Princeton University had a \"Princeton Cheer\", documented in the February 22, 1877, March 12, 1880, and November 4, 1881, issues of \"The Daily Princetonian\". This cheer was yelled from the stands by students attending games, as well as by the athletes themselves. The cheer, \"Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah! Tiger! S-s-s-t! Boom! A-h-h-h!\" remains in use with slight modifications today, where it is now referred to as the \"Locomotive\".\n\nPrinceton class of 1882 graduate Thomas Peebles moved to Minnesota in 1884. He transplanted the idea of organized crowds cheering at football games to the University of Minnesota. The term \"Cheer Leader\" had been used as early as 1897, with Princeton's football officials having named three students as \"Cheer Leaders:\" Thomas, Easton, and Guerin from Princeton's classes of 1897, 1898, and 1899, respectively, on October 26, 1897. These students would cheer for the team also at football practices, and special cheering sections were designated in the stands for the games themselves for both the home and visiting teams.\n\nIt was not until 1898 that University of Minnesota student Johnny Campbell directed a crowd in cheering \"Rah, Rah, Rah! Ski-u-mah, Hoo-Rah! Hoo-Rah! Varsity! Varsity! Varsity, Minn-e-So-Tah!\", making Campbell the very first cheerleader.\n\nNovember 2, 1898 is the official birth date of organized cheerleading. Soon after, the University of Minnesota organized a \"yell leader\" squad of six male students, who still use Campbell's original cheer today. In 1903, the first cheerleading fraternity, Gamma Sigma, was founded.\n\nIn 1923, at the University of Minnesota, women were permitted to participate in cheerleading. However, it took time for other schools to follow. In the late 1920s, many school manuals and newspapers that were published still referred to cheerleaders as \"chap,\" \"fellow,\" and \"man\". Women cheerleaders were overlooked until the 1940s. In the 1940s, collegiate men were drafted for World War II, creating the opportunity for more women to make their way onto sporting event sidelines. As noted by Kieran Scott in \"Ultimate Cheerleading\": \"Girls really took over for the first time.\" An overview written on behalf of cheerleading in 1955 explained that in larger schools, \"occasionally boys as well as girls are included,\", and in smaller schools, \"boys can usually find their place in the athletic program, and cheerleading is likely to remain solely a feminine occupation.\" During the 1950s, cheerleading in America also increased in popularity. By the 1960s, some began to consider cheerleading a feminine extracurricular for boys, and by the 1970s, girls primarily cheered at public school games. However, this did not stop its growth. Cheerleading could be found at almost every school level across the country, even pee wee and youth leagues began to appear.\n\nIn 1975, it was estimated by a man named Randy Neil that over 500,000 students actively participated in American cheerleading from grade school to the collegiate level. He also approximated that ninety-five percent of cheerleaders within America were female. Since 1973, cheerleaders have started to attend female basketball and other all-female sports as well.\n\nAs of 2005, overall statistics show around 97% of all modern cheerleading participants are female, although at the collegiate level, cheerleading is co-ed with about 50% of participants being male.\n\nIn 1948, Lawrence \"Herkie\" Herkimer, of Dallas, Texas, a former cheerleader at Southern Methodist University, formed the National Cheerleaders Association (NCA) in order to hold clinics for cheerleading. In 1949, The NCA held its first clinic in Huntsville, Texas, with 52 girls in attendance. Herkimer contributed many firsts to cheerleading: the founding of the Cheerleader & Danz Team cheerleading uniform supply company, inventing the herkie jump (where one leg is bent towards the ground as if kneeling and the other is out to the side as high as it will stretch in toe-touch position), and creating the \"Spirit Stick\". By the 1960s, college cheerleaders began hosting workshops across the nation, teaching fundamental cheer skills to high-school-age girls. In 1965, Fred Gastoff invented the vinyl pom-pom, which was introduced into competitions by the International Cheerleading Foundation (ICF, now the World Cheerleading Association, or WCA). Organized cheerleading competitions began to pop up with the first ranking of the \"Top Ten College Cheerleading Squads\" and \"Cheerleader All America\" awards given out by the ICF in 1967. In 1978, America was introduced to competitive cheerleading by the first broadcast of Collegiate Cheerleading Championships on CBS.\n\nIn the 1950s, the formation of professional cheerleading started. The first recorded cheer squad in National Football League (NFL) history was for the Baltimore Colts. Professional cheerleaders put a new perspective on American cheerleading. Women were selected for two reasons: visual sex appeal, and the ability to dance. Women were exclusively chosen because men were the targeted marketing group. The Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders soon gained the spotlight with their revealing outfits and sophisticated dance moves, debuting in the 1972–1973 season, but were first widely seen in Super Bowl X (1976). These pro squads of the 1970s established cheerleaders as \"American icons of wholesome sex appeal.\" By 1981, a total of seventeen Nation Football League teams had their own cheerleaders. The only teams without NFL cheerleaders at this time were New Orleans, New York, Detroit, Cleveland, Denver, Minnesota, Pittsburg, San Francisco, and San Diego. Professional cheerleading eventually spread to soccer and basketball teams as well.\n\nThe 1980s saw the beginning of modern cheerleading, adding difficult stunt sequences and gymnastics into routines. All-star teams popped up, and with them, the creation of the United States All-Star Federation (USASF). ESPN first broadcast the National High School Cheerleading Competition nationwide in 1983. Cheerleading organizations such as the American Association of Cheerleading Coaches and Advisors (AACCA), founded in 1987, started applying universal safety standards to decrease the number of injuries and prevent dangerous stunts, pyramids, and tumbling passes from being included in the cheerleading routines. In 2003, the National Council for Spirit Safety and Education (NCSSE) was formed to offer safety training for youth, school, all-star, and college coaches. The NCAA requires college cheer coaches to successfully complete a nationally recognized safety-training program. The NCSSE or AACCA certification programs are both recognized by the NCAA.\n\nEven with its athletic and competitive development, cheerleading at the school level has retained its ties to its spirit leading traditions. Cheerleaders are quite often seen as ambassadors for their schools, and leaders among the student body. At the college level, cheerleaders are often invited to help at university fundraisers and events.\n\nCheerleading is very closely associated with American football and basketball. Sports such as association football (soccer), ice hockey, volleyball, baseball, and wrestling will sometimes sponsor cheerleading squads. The ICC Twenty20 Cricket World Cup in South Africa in 2007 was the first international cricket event to have cheerleaders. The Florida Marlins were the first Major League Baseball team to have a cheerleading team. Debuting in 2003, the \"Marlin Mermaids\" gained national exposure, and have influenced other MLB teams to develop their own cheer/dance squads.\n\nCompetitive cheerleading is scored subjectively based on components including, but not limited to, the cheer itself, dance/choreography, pyramids, stunting, and tumbling. In order to prevent injuries, there are certain rules that cheerleading teams have to follow according to their level (high school, all-star, or college). According to the Encyclopedia of Sports Medicine, there are two purposes of cheerleading - to cheer on the sidelines for other athletes, and to be a \"highly skilled competing athlete.\"\n\nAlong with this evolution to the sport's structure, there have been significant advancements made to the typical cheerleading uniform. What began as the classic sweater and mid-calf pleated skirt uniform has now come to incorporate materials that allow for stretch and flexibility. Uniform changes are a result of the changing culture since the 1930s.\n\nCheerleading may seem like a light-hearted activity to some, but injuries that can come from practice or a competition can be severe if the athlete is not properly trained. There have been many catastrophic injuries from cheer, especially from tumbling and stunting. Because of the lack of studies on injuries in competitive cheerleading, many injuries that happen could be avoided. Most studies in sports medicine pertaining to cheerleading are focused on whether it is a sport or not.\n\nMost American middle schools, high schools, and colleges have organized cheerleading squads. Many colleges offer cheerleading scholarships for students. A cheerleading team may compete locally, regionally, or nationally, as well as cheer for sporting events and encourage audience participation. Cheerleading is quickly becoming a year-round activity, starting with tryouts during the spring semester of the preceding school year. Teams may attend organized summer cheerleading camps and practices to improve skills and create routines for competition.\n\nStudent cheerleaders compete with recreational-style routine at competitions year-round. Teams practice intensely for competition and perform a routine no longer than 2 minutes and 30 seconds. Like other school-level athletes, teams compete to win league titles, and move on to bigger competitions with the hopes of reaching a national competition. The advantages to a school squad versus an all-star squad is cheering at various sporting events.\n\nThe tryout process can sometimes take place over a multiple day period. The cheerleading coach will arrange for a cheerleading clinic, during which basic materials are taught or reviewed before the final day of tryouts. The clinic gives returning cheerleaders and new cheerleaders an equal chance of becoming familiar with the material. Skills that are necessary to be a cheerleader include jumps, tumbling, motions, and dance ability. Tryouts often take place during the spring, so that the coach has the squad chosen in time to attend summer camp as a team.\n\nMiddle school cheerleading evolved shortly after high school squads were created. In middle school, cheerleading squads serve the same purpose, and follow the same rules as high school squads. Squads cheer for basketball teams, football teams, and other sports teams in their school. Squads also perform at pep rallies and compete against other local schools from the area. Cheerleading in middle school sometimes can be a two-season activity: fall and winter. However, many middle school cheer squads will go year-round like high school squads. Middle school cheerleaders use the same cheerleading movements as their older counterparts, yet they perform less extreme stunts. These stunts range from preps, thigh stands, and extensions, to harder one-legged stunts.\n\nIn high school, there are usually two squads per school: varsity and a junior varsity. High school cheerleading contains aspects of school spirit as well as competition. These squads have become part of a year-round cycle. Starting with tryouts in the spring, year-round practice, cheering on teams in the fall and winter, and participating in cheerleading competitions. Most squads practice at least three days a week for about two hours each practice during the summer. Many teams also attend separate tumbling sessions outside of practice. During the school year, cheerleading is usually practiced five- to six-days-a-week. During competition season, it often becomes seven days with practice twice a day sometimes. The school spirit aspect of cheerleading involves cheering, supporting, and \"pumping up\" the crowd at football games, basketball games, and even at wrestling meets. Along with this, they perform at pep rallies, and bring school spirit to other students. In May 2009, the National Federation of State High School Associations released the results of their first true high school participation study. They estimated that the number of high school cheerleaders from public high schools is around 394,700.\n\nThere are different cheerleading organizations that put on competitions; some of the major ones include state and regional competitions. Many high schools will often host cheerleading competitions, bringing in IHSA judges. The regional competitions are qualifiers for national competitions, such as the UCA (Universal Cheerleaders Association) in Orlando, Florida every year. The competition aspect of cheerleading can be very enduring; styles and rules change every year, making it important and difficult to find the newest and hottest routines. Most teams have a professional choreographer that choreographs their routine in order to ensure they are not breaking rules or regulations. For a list of rules, visit AACCA (American Association of Cheerleading Coaches and Administrators). All high school coaches are required to attend an IHSA rules meeting at the beginning of the season. This ensures their knowledge of changed rules and their compliance with these rules.\n\nMost American universities have a cheerleading squad to cheer for football, basketball, volleyball, and soccer. Most college squads tend to be large coed although in recent years; all-girl and small coed college squads have increased rapidly.\n\nCollege squads perform more difficult stunts which include pyramids, as well as flipping and twisting basket tosses.\n\nOrganizations that sponsor youth cheer teams usually sponsor either youth league football or basketball teams as well. This allows for the two, under the same sponsor, to be intermingled. Both teams have the same mascot name and the cheerleaders will perform at their football or basketball games. Examples of such sponsors include Pop Warner and Pasco Police Athletic League (PPAL). The YMCA (Young Men's Christian Association) is also a well-known sponsor for youth cheerleading leagues.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, cheerleading squads not associated with a school or sports leagues, whose main objective was competition, began to emerge. The first organization to call themselves all-stars and go to competitions were the Q94 Rockers from Richmond, Virginia, founded in 1982. All-star teams competing prior to 1987 were placed into the same divisions as teams that represented schools and sports leagues. In 1986, the National Cheerleaders Association (NCA) addressed this situation by creating a separate division for teams lacking a sponsoring school or athletic association, calling it the All-Star Division and debuting it at their 1987 competitions. As the popularity of this type of team grew, more and more of them were formed, attending competitions sponsored by many different organizations and companies, each using its own set of rules, regulations, and divisions. This situation became a concern to gym owners because the inconsistencies caused coaches to keep their routines in a constant state of flux, detracting from time that could be better utilized for developing skills and providing personal attention to their athletes. More importantly, because the various companies were constantly vying for a competitive edge, safety standards had become more and more lax. In some cases, unqualified coaches and inexperienced squads were attempting dangerous stunts as a result of these expanded sets of rules.\n\nThe USASF was formed in 2003 by the competition companies to act as the national governing body for all star cheerleading and to create a standard set of rules and judging standards to be followed by all competitions sanctioned by the Federation, ultimately leading to the Cheerleading Worlds. The USASF hosted the first Cheerleading Worlds on April 24, 2004. In 2009, the first All-Level Worlds was held. It included teams from all levels, with each winner continuing to the online championships, where teams from across the nation competed to win the Worlds Title. At the same time, cheerleading coaches from all over the country organized themselves for the same rule making purpose, calling themselves the National All Star Cheerleading Coaches Congress (NACCC). In 2005, the NACCC was absorbed by the USASF to become their rule making body. In late 2006, the USASF facilitated the creation of the International All-Star Federation (IASF).\n\n, all-star cheerleading as sanctioned by the USASF involves a squad of 6–36 females and/or males. All-star differs from sideline cheerleading because all-star focuses on performing , while sideline cheers for others sport such as football or basketball. All-star is competitive teams that perform a routine for the purpose of entertainment against other teams, typically in the same divisions, to try to win. The squad prepares year-round for many different competition appearances, but they only actually perform for up to 2½ minutes during their team's routines. The numbers of competitions a team participates in varies from team to team, but generally, most teams tend to participate in eight to twelve competitions a year. These competitions include locals, which are normally taken place in school gymnasiums or local venues, nationals, hosted in big venues all around the U.S. with national champions, and the Cheerleading Worlds, taken place at Disney World in Orlando, Florida. During a competition routine, a squad performs carefully choreographed stunting, tumbling, jumping, and dancing to their own custom music. Teams create their routines to an eight-count system and apply that to the music so that the team members execute the elements with precise timing and synchronization.\n\nThere are many different organizations that host their own state and national competitions. Some major companies include: Universal Spirit, AmeriCheer, Cheersport, Planet Spirit, Eastern Cheer and Dance Association, and The JAM Brands. This means that many gyms within the same area could be state and national champions for the same year and never have competed against each other. Currently, there is no system in place that awards only one state or national title.\n\nJudges at the competition watch closely for illegal moves from the group or any individual member. Here, an illegal move is something that is not allowed in that division due to difficulty and/or safety restrictions. They look out for deductions, or things that go wrong, such as a dropped stunt. They also look for touch downs in tumbling for deductions. More generally, judges look at the difficulty and execution of jumps, stunts and tumbling, synchronization, creativity, the sharpness of the motions, showmanship, and overall routine execution.\n\nAll-star cheerleaders are placed into divisions, which are grouped based upon age, size of the team, gender of participants, and ability level. The age levels vary from under 4 year of age to 18 years and over. The divisions used by the USASF/IASF are currently Tiny, Mini, Youth, Junior, Junior International, Junior Coed, Senior, Senior Coed, Special Needs, and Open International. It originally began with \"all girl\" teams and later co-ed teams began to gain popularity. That being said, the all-girl squad remains the most prevalent.\n\nIf a team places high enough at selected USASF/IASF sanctioned national competitions, they could be included in the Cheerleading Worlds and compete against teams from all over the world, as well as receive money for placing. Each team receives a bid from another cheerleading company and goes in the name of that company. One must get a bid from a company in order to compete at the Cheerleading Worlds. For example, a team could get a bid from Cheersport, and they compete as a team representing that company. Cheerleading companies give out three types of bids to go to Cheerleading Worlds, Full Paid Bid, Partial Bid, or an Un-paid bid. The Cheerleading Worlds are only for teams that are level 5 and up.\n\nProfessional cheerleaders and dancers cheer for sports such as football, basketball, baseball, wrestling, or hockey. There are only a small handful of professional cheerleading leagues around the world; some professional leagues include the NBA Cheerleading League, the NFL Cheerleading League, the CFL Cheerleading League, the MLS Cheerleading League, the MLB Cheerleading League, and the NHL Ice Dancers. Although professional cheerleading leagues exist in multiple countries, there are no Olympic teams.\n\nIn addition to cheering at games and competing, professional cheerleaders also, as teams, can often do a lot of philanthropy and charity work, modeling, motivational speaking, television performances, and advertising.\n\nAmericheer: Americheer was founded in 1987 by Elizabeth Rossetti. It is the parent company to Ameridance and Eastern Cheer and Dance Association. In 2005, Americheer became one of the founding members of the NLCC. This means that Americheer events offer bids to The U.S. Finals: The Final Destination. AmeriCheer InterNational Championship competition is held every March at the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida.\n\nInternational Cheer Union (ICU): Established on April 26, 2004, the ICU is recognized by the SportAccord as the world governing body of cheerleading and the authority on all matters with relation to it. Including participation from its 105-member national federations reaching 3.5 million athletes globally, the ICU continues to serve as the unified voice for those dedicated to cheerleading's positive development around the world.\n\nFollowing a positive vote by the SportAccord General Assembly on May 31, 2013, in Saint Petersburg, the International Cheer Union (ICU) became SportAccord's 109th member, and SportAccord's 93rd international sports federation to join the international sports family. In accordance with the SportAccord statutes, the ICU is recognized as the world governing body of cheerleading and the authority on all matters related to it.\n\nAs of the 2016–17 season, the ICU has introduced a Junior aged team (12-16) to compete at the Cheerleading Worlds, because cheerleading is now in provisional status to become a sport in the Olympics. For cheerleading to one day be in the Olympics, there must be a junior and senior team that competes at the world championships. The first junior cheerleading team that was selected to become the junior national team was Eastside Middle School, located in Mount Washington Kentucky and will represent the United States in the inaugural junior division at the world championships.\n\nThe ICU holds training seminars for judges and coaches, global events and the World Cheerleading Championships. The ICU is also fully applied to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and is compliant under the code set by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).\n\nInternational Federation of Cheerleading (IFC): Established on July 5, 1998, the International Federation of Cheerleading (IFC) is a non-profit federation based in Tokyo, Japan, and is the world governing body of cheerleading. The IFC objectives are to promote cheerleading worldwide, to spread knowledge of cheerleading, and to develop friendly relations among the member associations and federations.\n\nNational Cheerleaders Association: The NCA was founded in 1948 by Lawrence Herkimer. Every year, the NCA hosts the NCA High School Cheerleading Nationals and the NCA All-Star Cheerleading Nationals in Dallas, Texas. They also host the NCA/NDA Collegiate Cheer & Dance Championship in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\nUnited Spirit Association: In 1950, Robert Olmstead directed his first summer training camp, and USA later sprouted from this. USA's focus is on the game day experience as a way to enhance audience entertainment. This focus led to the first American football half-time shows to reach adolescences from around the world and expose them to American style cheerleading. USA has choreographed material for professional and competitive cheerleaders alike. USA provides competitions for cheerleading squads without prior qualifications needed in order to participate. The organization also allows the opportunity for cheerleaders to become an All-American, participate in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, and partake in London's New Year's Day Parade and other special events much like UCA and NCA allow participants to do.\n\nUniversal Cheerleaders Association: Universal Cheerleaders Association was founded in 1974 by Jeff Webb. Since 1980, UCA has hosted the National High School Cheerleading Championship in Walt Disney World Resort. They also host the National All-Star Cheerleading Championship, and the College Cheerleading National Championship at Walt Disney World Resort. To qualify for these events, all teams must submit a video. All of these events air on ESPN.\n\nAsian Thailand Cheerleading Invitational (ATCI): Organised by the Cheerleading Association of Thailand (CAT) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the International Federation of Cheerleading (IFC). The ATCI is held every year since 2009. At the ATCI, many teams from all over Thailand compete, joining them are many invited neighbouring nations who also send cheer squads.\n\nCheerleading Asia International Open Championships (CAIOC): Hosted by the Foundation of Japan Cheerleading Association (FJCA) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the IFC. The CAIOC has been a yearly event since 2007. Every year, many teams from all over Asia converge in Tokyo to compete.\n\nCheerleading World Championships (CWC): Organised by the IFC. The IFC is a non-profit organisation founded in 1998 and based in Tokyo, Japan.\nThe CWC has been held every two years since 2001, and to date, the competition has been held in Japan, the United Kingdom, Finland, Germany, and Hong Kong. The 6th CWC was held at the Hong Kong Coliseum on November 26–27, 2011.\n\nICU World Championships: The International Cheer Union currently encompasses 105 National Federations from countries across the globe. Every year, the ICU host the World Cheerleading Championship. Unlike the USASF Worlds, this competition uses Level 6/ Collegiate style rules. Countries assemble and send only one team to represent them.\n\nNational Cheerleading Championships (NCC): The NCC is the annual IFC-sanctioned national cheerleading competition in Indonesia organised by the Indonesian Cheerleading Community (ICC). Since NCC 2010, the event is now open to international competition, representing a significant step forward for the ICC. Teams from many countries such as Japan, Thailand, the Philippines, and Singapore participated in the ground breaking event.\n\nNLCC Final Destination: Nation's Leading Cheer Companies is a multi brand company, partnered with other companies such as: Americheer/Ameridance, American Cheer & Dance Academy, Eastern Cheer & Dance Association, and Spirit Unlimited. Every year, starting in 2006, the NLCC hosts The US Finals: The Final Destination of Cheerleading and Dance. Every team that attends must qualify and receive a bid at a partner company's competition. In May 2008, the NLCC and The JAM Brands announced a partnership to produce The U.S. Finals - Final Destination. There are nine Final Destination locations across the country. After the regional events, videos of all the teams that competed are sent to a new panel of judges and rescored to rank teams against those against whom they may never have had a chance to compete.\n\nPan-American Cheerleading Championships (PCC): The PCC was held for the first time in 2009 in the city of Latacunga, Ecuador and is the continental championship organised by the Pan-American Federation of Cheerleading (PFC). The PFC, operating under the umbrella of the IFC, is the non-profit continental body of cheerleading whose aim it is to promote and develop cheerleading in the Americas. The PCC is a biennial event, and was held for the second time in Lima, Peru, in November 2010.\n\nThe JAM Brands: The JAM Brands, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, provides products and services for the cheerleading and dance industry. It is made up of approximately 12 different brands that produce everything from competitions to camps to uniforms to merchandise and apparel. JAMfest, the original brand of The JAM Brands, has been around since 1996 and was founded by Aaron Flaker and Emmitt Tyler. Dan Kessler has since become a co-owner of The JAM Brands along with Flaker and Tyler.\n\nUSASF/IASF Worlds: Many United States cheerleading organizations form and register the not-for-profit entity the United States All Star Federation (USASF) and also the International All Star Federation (IASF) to support international club cheerleading and the World Cheerleading Club Championships. The first World Cheerleading Championships, or Cheerleading Worlds, were hosted by the USASF/IASF at the Walt Disney World Resort and taped for an ESPN global broadcast in 2004. This competition is only for All-Star/Club cheer. Only levels Junior 5, Senior 5, Senior Open 5, International 5, International Open 5, International 6, and International Open 6 may attend. Teams must receive a bid from a partner company to attend.\n\nVarsity: Partnered with the UCA, Varsity created the National High School Cheerleading Championship in 1980. Varsity All-Star owns or partners with many of the largest cheerleading events in the country.\n\nThere is a large debate on whether or not cheerleading should be considered a sport for Title IX (a portion of the United States Education Amendments of 1972 forbidding discrimination under any education program on the basis of sex) purposes. Supporters consider cheerleading, as a whole, a sport, citing the heavy use of athletic talents while critics see it as a physical activity because a \"sport\" implies a competition among all squads and not all squads compete, along with subjectivity of competitions where—as with gymnastics, diving, and figure skating—scores are assessed based on human judgment and not an objective goal or measurement of time.\n\nOn January 27, 2009, in a lawsuit involving an accidental injury sustained during a cheerleading practice, the Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled that cheerleading is a full-contact sport in that state, not allowing any participants to be sued for accidental injury. In contrast, on July 21, 2010, in a lawsuit involving whether college cheerleading qualified as a sport for purposes of Title IX, a federal court, citing a current lack of program development and organization, ruled that it is not a sport at all.\n\nCheerleading carries the highest rate of catastrophic injuries to girl athletes in sports. The risks of cheerleading were highlighted when Kristi Yamaoka, a cheerleader for Southern Illinois University, suffered a fractured vertebra when she hit her head after falling from a human pyramid. She also suffered from a concussion, and a bruised lung. The fall occurred when Yamaoka lost her balance during a basketball game between Southern Illinois University and Bradley University at the Savvis Center in St. Louis on March 5, 2006. The fall gained \"national attention\", because Yamaoka continued to perform from a stretcher as she was moved away from the game. Yamaoka has since made a full recovery.\n\nThe accident caused the Missouri Valley Conference to ban its member schools from allowing cheerleaders to be \"launched or tossed and from taking part in formations higher than two levels\" for one week during a women's basketball conference tournament, and also resulted in a recommendation by the NCAA that conferences and tournaments do not allow pyramids two and one half levels high or higher, and a stunt known as basket tosses, during the rest of the men's and women's basketball season. On July 11, 2006, the bans were made permanent by the AACCA rules committee:\n\nThe committee unanimously voted for sweeping revisions to cheerleading safety rules, the most major of which restricts specific upper-level skills during basketball games. Basket tosses, 2½ high pyramids, one-arm stunts, stunts that involve twisting or flipping, and twisting tumbling skills may only be performed during halftime and post-game on a matted surface and are prohibited during game play or time-outs.\nAnother major cheerleading accident was the death of Lauren Chang. Chang died on April 14, 2008 after competing in a competition where her teammate had kicked her so hard in the chest that her lungs collapsed.\n\nOf the United States' 2.9 million female high school athletes, only 3% are cheerleaders, yet cheerleading accounts for nearly 65% of all catastrophic injuries in girls' high school athletics. The NCAA does not recognize cheerleading as a collegiate sport; there are no solid numbers on college cheerleading, yet when it comes to injuries, 67% of female athlete injuries at the college level are due to cheerleading mishaps. Another study found that between 1982 and 2007, there were 103 fatal, disabling, or serious injuries recorded among female high school athletes, with the vast majority (67) occurring in cheerleading.\n\nIn the early 2000s, cheerleading was considered one of the most dangerous school activities. The main source of injuries comes from stunting, also known as pyramids. These stunts are performed at games and pep rallies, as well as competitions. Sometimes competition routines are focused solely around the use of difficult and risky stunts. These stunts usually include a flyer (the person on top), along with one or two bases (the people on the bottom), and one or two spotters in the front and back on the bottom. The most common cheerleading related injury is a concussion. 96% of those concussions are stunt related. Others injuries are: sprained ankles, sprained wrists, back injuries, head injuries (sometimes concussions), broken arms, elbow injuries, knee injuries, broken noses, and broken collarbones. Sometimes, however, injuries can be as serious as whiplash, broken necks, broken vertebrae, and death.\n\nThe journal \"Pediatrics\" has reportedly said that the number of cheerleaders suffering from broken bones, concussions, and sprains has increased by over 100 percent between the years of 1990 and 2002, and that in 2001, there were 25,000 hospital visits reported for cheerleading injuries dealing with the shoulder, ankle, head, and neck. Meanwhile, in the USA, cheerleading accounted for 65.1% of all major physical injuries to high school females, and to 66.7% of major injuries to college students due to physical activity from 1982 to 2007, with 22,900 minors being admitted to hospital with cheerleading-related injuries in 2002.\n\nIn October 2009, the American Association of Cheerleading Coaches and Advisors (AACCA), a subsidiary of Varsity Brands, released a study that analyzed the data from emergency room visits of all high school athletes. The study asserted that contrary to many perceptions, cheerleading injuries are in line with female sports.\n\nCheerleading (for both girls and boys) was one of the sports studied in the Pediatric Injury Prevention, Education and Research Program of the Colorado School of Public Health in 2009/10–2012/13. Data on cheerleading injuries is included in the report for 2012–13.\n\nThe revamped and provocative Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders of the 1970s—and the many imitators that followed—firmly established the cheerleader as an American icon of wholesome sex appeal. In response, a new subgenre of exploitation films suddenly sprang up with titles such as \"The Cheerleaders\" (1972), \"The Swinging Cheerleaders\" (1974), \"Revenge of the Cheerleaders\" (1975), \"The Pom Pom Girls\" (1976), \"Satan's Cheerleaders\" (1977), \"Cheerleaders Beach Party\" (1978), \"Cheerleaders's Wild Weekend\" (1979), and \"Gimme an 'F'\" (1984). In addition to R-rated sex comedies and horror films, cheerleaders became a staple of the adult film industry, starting with \"Debbie Does Dallas\" (1978) and its four sequels.\n\nOn television, the made-for-TV movie \"The Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders\" (which aired January 14, 1979) starring Jane Seymour was a highly rated success, spawning the 1980 sequel \"The Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders II\".\n\nThe Dallas squad was in high demand during the late 1970s with frequent appearances on network specials, awards shows, variety programs, commercials, the game show \"Family Feud\" and TV series such as \"The Love Boat\". The sci-fi sitcom \"Mork & Mindy\" also based a 1979 episode around the Denver Broncos cheerleaders with Mork (Robin Williams) trying out for the squad.\n\n\"The Positively True Adventures of the Alleged Texas Cheerleader-Murdering Mom\" (1993) is a TV movie which dramatized the true story of Wanda Holloway, the Texas mother whose obsession with her daughter's cheerleading career made headline news. Another lurid TV movie based on a true story, \"\" was produced in 2008.\n\nCheerleading's increasing popularity in recent decades has made it a prominent feature in high-school themed movies and television shows. The 2000 film \"Bring It On\", about a San Diego high school cheerleading squad called \"The Toros\", starred real-life former cheerleader Kirsten Dunst. \"Bring It On\" was a surprise hit and earned nearly $70 million domestically. It spawned five direct-to-video sequels: \"Bring It On Again\" (2004), \"\" (2006), \"\" (2007), \"\" (2009) and \"\" (2017). The first \"Bring It On\" was followed by the cheerleader caper-comedy, \"Sugar & Spice\" (2001) and a string of campy horror/action films such as \"Cheerleader Ninjas\" (2002), \"Cheerleader Autopsy\", \"Cheerleader Massacre\" (both 2003), \"Chainsaw Cheerleaders\", and \"Ninja Cheerleaders\" (both 2008).\n\nIn 2006, Hayden Panettiere, star of \"Bring It On: All or Nothing\", took another cheerleading role as Claire Bennet, the cheerleader with an accelerated healing factor on NBC's hit sci-fi TV series \"Heroes\", launching cheerleading back into the limelight of pop culture. Claire was the main focus of the show's first story arc, featuring the popular catchphrase, \"Save the cheerleader, save the world\". Her prominent, protagonist role in \"Heroes\" was supported by a strong fan-base and provided a positive image for high school cheerleading.\n\nIn 2009, Panettiere starred again as a cheerleader, this time as Beth Cooper in the film adaptation of the novel \"I Love You, Beth Cooper\".\n\nIn 2006, the reality show \"Cheerleader Nation\" was featured on the Lifetime television channel. \"Cheerleader Nation\" is a 60-minute television series based on the Paul Laurence Dunbar High School cheerleading team's ups and downs on the way to nationals, of which they are the three-time champions. The show also believes that cheerleading is tough. The show takes place in Lexington, Kentucky.\n\nThe 2007 series \"\" shows the process of getting on the pro squad of the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders. Everything from initial tryouts to workout routines and the difficulties involved is shown.\n\n\"Fired Up!\", a teen comedy about cheerleading camp, was released by Screen Gems in 2009. In the supernatural horror-comedy \"Jennifer's Body\" (2009), Megan Fox plays a demonically possessed high school cheerleader. Also that year, Universal Pictures signed music video and film director Bille Woodruff (\"Barbershop\", \"Honey\") to direct the fifth film in the \"Bring It On\" series titled \"\". The film stars Christina Milian (who previously played cheerleaders in \"Love Don't Cost a Thing\" and \"Man of the House\") and Rachelle Brook Smith, and was released directly to DVD and Blu-ray on September 1, 2009.\n\nThe television series \"Glee\" (2009-2015) featured Dianna Agron as Quinn Fabray, the captain of her high school cheerleading squad, the Cheerios. Quinn becomes pregnant, leading to her expulsion from the squad, but two of the other Cheerios, Santana Lopez and Brittany Pierce also feature heavily in the show. In \"The Power of Madonna\" Kurt Hummel joins the Cheerios along with Mercedes Jones.\n\nThe CW Television Network created the short-lived \"Hellcats\" series (2010–11). This drama was about the ups and downs of being a college cheerleader. It starred Aly Michalka as Marty (a former gymnast forced to become a cheerleader after her academic scholarship is canceled) and Ashley Tisdale from \"High School Musical\".\n\nMore recent films include the teen sex-comedy \"#1 Cheerleader Camp\" (2010) and the horror-comedy \"All Cheerleaders Die\" (2013), a remake of an earlier 2001 film of the same name.\n\nNintendo has released a pair of video games in Japan for the Nintendo DS, \"Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan\" and its sequel \"Moero! Nekketsu Rhythm Damashii\" that star teams of male cheer squads, or Ouendan that practice a form of cheerleading. Each of the games' most difficult modes replaces the male characters with female cheer squads that dress in western cheerleading uniforms. The games task the cheer squads with assisting people in desperate need of help by cheering them on and giving them the motivation to succeed. There are also a \"All Star Cheerleader\" and \"We Cheer\" for the Wii in which one does routines at competitions with the Wiimote & Nunchuck. \"All Star Cheerleader\" is also available for Nintendo DS.\n\nCheerleading in Canada is rising in popularity among the youth in co-curricular programs. Cheerleading has grown from the sidelines to a competitive activity throughout the world and in particular Canada. Cheerleading has a few streams in Canadian sports culture. It is available at the middle-school, high-school, collegiate, and best known for all-star. There are multiple regional, provincial, and national championship opportunities for all athletes participating in cheerleading. Canada does not have provincial teams, just a national program referred to as CCU or Team Canada. Their first year as a national team was in 2009 when they represented Canada at the International Cheer Union World Cheerleading Championships International Cheer Union (ICU).\n\nThere is no official governing body for Canadian cheerleading. The rules and guidelines for cheerleading used in Canada are the ones set out by the USASF. However, there are many organizations in Canada that put on competitions and have separate and individual rules and scoresheets for each competition. Cheer Evolution is the largest cheerleading and dance organization for Canada. They hold many competitions as well as provide a competition for bids to Worlds. There are other organizations such as the Ontario Cheerleading Federation (Ontario), Power Cheerleading Association (Ontario), Kicks Athletics (Quebec), and the International Cheer Alliance (Vancouver). There are over forty recognized competitive gym clubs with numerous teams that compete at competitions across Canada.\n\nThere are two world championship competitions that Canada participates in. There is the ICU World Championships where the national teams compete against each other and then there are the club team world championships. These club teams are referred to as \"all-star\" teams who compete at the USASF World Championships of Cheerleading. This is where teams must have earned a bid from their own country to attend. National team members who compete at the ICU Worlds can also compete with their \"all-star club\" teams. Although athletes can compete in both International Cheer Union (ICU) and USASF, crossovers between teams at each individual competition are not permitted. Teams compete against the other teams from their countries on the first day of competition and the top three teams from each country in each division continue to finals. At the end of finals, the top team scoring the highest for their country earns the \"Nations Cup\". Canada has multiple teams across their country that compete in the USASF Cheerleading Worlds Championship.\n\nThe International Cheer Union (ICU) is built of 103 countries that compete against each other in four divisions; Coed Premier, All-girl Premier, Coed Elite, and All-girl Elite. Canada has a national team ran by the Canadian Cheer Union (CCU). Their Coed Elite Level 5 Team and their All-girl Elite Level 5 team are 4-time world champions. They are found from all over the country. In 2013, they added two more teams to their roster. A new division that will compete head-to-head with the United States: in both the All-girl and Coed Premier Level 6 divisions. Members tryout and are selected on the basis of their skills and potential to succeed. Athletes are selected from all over. Canada's national program has grown to be one of the most successful programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "4011634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4011634", "title": "Cognitive rhetoric", "text": "Cognitive rhetoric\n\nCognitive rhetoric refers to an approach to rhetoric, composition, and pedagogy as well as a method for language and literary studies drawing from, or contributing to, cognitive science.\n\nFollowing the cognitive revolution, cognitive linguists, computer scientists, and cognitive psychologists have borrowed terms from rhetorical and literary criticism. Specifically, metaphor is a fundamental concept throughout cognitive science, particularly for cognitive linguistic models in which meaning-making is dependent on metaphor production and comprehension.\n\nComputer scientists and philosophers of mind draw on literary studies for terms like “scripts”, “stories”, “stream of consciousness”, “multiple drafts”, and “Joycean machine”. Cognitive psychologists have researched literary and rhetorical topics such as “reader response” and “deixis” in narrative fiction, and transmission of poetry in oral traditions.\n\nRhetoric is a term often used in reference to composition studies and pedagogy, a tradition that dates back to Ancient Greece. The emergence of Rhetoric as a teachable craft (\"techne\") links rhetoric and composition pedagogy, notably in the tradition of Sophism. Aristotle collected Sophist handbooks on rhetoric and critiqued them in \"Synagoge Techne\" (fourth century BCE).\n\nIn Ancient Rome, the Greek Rhetorical tradition was absorbed and became vital to education, as rhetoric was valued in a highly political society with an advanced system of law, where speaking well was crucial to winning favor, alliances, and legal rulings.\n\nCognitive Rhetoricians focusing on composition (such as Linda Flower and John Hayes) draw from the paradigm, methods, and terms of cognitive science to build a pedagogy of composition, where writing is an instance of everyday problem-solving processes.\n\nJames A. Berlin has argued that by focusing on professional composition and communications and ignoring ideology, social-cognitive rhetoric—which maps structures of the mind onto structures of language and the interpersonal world—lends itself to use as a tool for training workers in corporate capitalism. Berlin contrasts Social-Cognitive Rhetoric with Social-Epistemic Rhetoric, which makes ideology the core issue of composition pedagogy.\n\nCognitive Rhetoric offers a new way of looking at properties of literature from the perspective of cognitive science. It is interdisciplinary in character and committed to data and methods that produce falsifiable theory. Rhetoric also offers a store of stylistic devices observed for their effect on audiences, providing a rich index with distinguished examples available to researchers in cognitive neuropsychology and cognitive science.\n\nFor Mark Turner (a prominent figure in Cognitive Rhetoric), narrative imaging is the fundamental instrument of everyday thought. Individuals organize experience in a constant narrative flow, starting with small spatial stories. Meaning is fundamentally parabolic (like a parable): two or more event shapes or conceptual spaces converge (blending) in the parabolic process, generating concepts with unique properties not found in either of the inputs. This process is everyday: anticipating that an object you are headed toward will make contact with you is a parable whereby you project a spatial viewpoint. Such narrative flow is a highly adaptive process, crucial for planning, evaluating, explaining, as well as recalling the past and imagining a future. Thus, literary processes have adaptive value prior to the emergence of linguistic capability (modular or continuous).\n\n\n\nCognitive Rhetoric\n\nSocial-Cognitive\n\nSocial-Epistemtic\n\nCognitive Poetics\n\n\n\n\n\"Cognitive Rhetoric\"\n\n\"Cognitive Rhetoric, Composition, and Pedagogy\"\n"}
{"id": "38051973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051973", "title": "Death in office", "text": "Death in office\n\nA death in office is the death of a person who was incumbent of an office-position until the time of death. Such deaths have been usually due to natural causes, but they are also caused by accidents and murders.\n\nThe death of most monarchs and popes have been deaths in office, since they have usually held their papacy/reign for the rest of their lives. Otherwise as most office positions require that the person is constantly competent in performing the associated duties, deaths in office are usually premature deaths.\n\nSystems differ in how they deal with the death of an office holder. In some death results in a casual vacancy, whereby the office is unfilled for a time. The office may subsequently be filled by a by-election or by appointment. A person may temporarily take the powers and responsibilities of the deceased in an \"acting\" capacity before a permanent replacement is made. In other systems there may be a legally defined order of succession. For example, in hereditary monarchies reigns are typically expected to end with death and the transition of power to an heir. Many presidential systems have offices of vice president, whose principle responsibility is to immediately assume the presidency if the president dies or otherwise leaves the office.\n\n\nSir John Maybin colonial governors of Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) (1941)\n"}
{"id": "56387067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56387067", "title": "Deil's Dyke", "text": "Deil's Dyke\n\nDeil's Dyke, Pict's Dyke or Celt's Dyke \nin south-west lowland Scotland is a linear earthwork that roughly follows the contours that divide upland pasture from lowland arable land, effectively acting like the head-dykes of medieval and later times although its true purpose has not been settled. The Deil's Dyke, sometimes written as 'dike', is formed from an earthen berm of rounded form that varies from 2.0-4.0m wide and a maximum of 0.7m high sometimes having a stone core. Where a fosse accompanies the bank it is usually an inconsequential 0.5m or so in width on average and around 0.4m deep, more often located on the uphill or outfield side. As a defensive structure the dyke has no obvious military value and its erratic route mitigates against it being a practical political boundary. \n\nThe earthwork is not continuous however it is generally regarded as running from east of Afton Water (NS 6169 1142) near New Cumnock to Burnmouth (NS 8400 0500) in the parish of Durisdeer, having passed through the parishes of New Cumnock, Kirkconnel and Sanquhar. A detached section ran from the site of the old Durisdeer Castle to the Kirk Burn above Durisdeer village, ending short of the Durisdeer Roman fortlet. The dyke follows contours that lie typically from 500 to 900 ft above sea level.\n\nIn 1824 the Deil’s Dyke is first recorded in print by Chalmers in his ‘Caledonia’ where he credits Joseph Train, amongst others, for the description of what survived at the time and for recognising its significance, ambiguous as that remains. In 1841 a second report was published as an appendix in MacKenzie’s ‘History of Galloway’. \n\nOriginally it was said to run from Loch Ryan to the shores of the inner Solway and was a boundary between the Picts and the Britons of Strathclyde with a defensive palisade, watchtowers and forts however this has been shown to be incorrect as a number of the linear features included were shown to be head-dykes and other unrelated landscape features. A Dumfries and Galloway survey of 1956 proposed that the dyke runs along a 16 miles route from near Burnmouth Farm (NS 8400 0500), north of Enterkinfoot to Dalhanna Hill, New Cumnock, beside the Afton Water (NS 6169 1142), south-west of New Cumnock. This section is considered to have some credibility as a single structure constructed and planned through the control of a single controlling authority.\n\nIn 1981 a section was excavated and was shown to consist of an earth bank only, likely to have been constructed on one single occasion. The turves used in its construction were taken from either side giving a width of 4.5 feet (1.4m) at the base with a maximum original height estimated at around 6.5 feet (2m). although both late Iron Age and medieval dating evidence was found it was not conclusive. \n\nNo one single feudal land holder is known to have controlled such a large area so its construction as an estate boundary is implausible, but a mediaeval head-dyke function or a deer hay wind function or a hunting forest demarcation fits the evidence better. It has been noted that a considerable number of similar earthworks exist in the vicinity of the dyke making interpretation a challenge.\n\nThe name 'Deil's Dyke' or 'Devil's Dyke' is commonly associated in myth and legend with structures of this scale however it has also been noted that a name similar or identical to 'Deil's Dyke' can mean a 'march dyke'.\n\nSome of the gaps in the course of the dyke may be due to the historical presence of dense woodland. Areas of once extensive woodland in Nithsdale are indicated on old maps such as in the 1660s when a Cashogill Wood (sic) is recorded near Enterkinfoot, extending at least as far as Kilbryd Kirk (sic).\n\nThe RCAHMS have mapped sections of the Deil's Dyke near Morton Castle and near Gatelawbridge.\n\nIn the parish of Eskdalemuir are sections of another similar linear earthwork there known as the 'Deil's Jingle'.\n\nLocal tradition states that the dyke was used to hide cattle from raiders or to interfere with raiders returning with stolen sheep, cattle, horses and other goods, delaying them long enough for pursuers to catch up with them. \n\nIn a number of places along its route it has been utilised and modified or possibly originally built as a head-dyke which physically separated the arable lower lying land from the upland pastures which were grazed by sheep and cattle which would have otherwise eaten any arable crops. The terms 'in-field' and 'out-field' are sometimes applied and both are clearly marked on the landscape as green lush vegetation on lower lying land against the more complex colours of bare rock, heather, bracken, etc. on the moors or out-fields. The development of field boundaries meant that head-dykes were no longer necessary and they fell out of use in the 18th and 19th centuries. \n\nThe often erratic route may be explained by the need to enclose as much good quality arable land as possible. \n\nThe dyke has also been proposed as a tribal territorial boundary or as a medieval land boundary however the irregular course of this linear feature makes this unlikely.\n\nThe course of the Deil's Dyke is not noticeably associated with the many defensive features that exist in Nithsdale, such as Iron Age forts, medieval mottes, etc. although the linear earthwork near Durisdeer is linked with the site of the medieval castle.\n\nThe Catrail in Roxburghshire, southern Scotland, has a number of similarities with the Deil's Dyke and consists of a bank and a ditch and runs for . It is considered to be a territorial land boundary dating from the Early Middle Ages and was once considered to link up with the Deil's Dyke.\n\nSome deer hay winds or elricks may have consisted of banks and ditches several kilometres long that were used to direct deer for the purpose of capture and the Deil's Dyke fits this description. \"Deer hunting has left physical traces on the landscape in the form of banks and dykes used either as park boundaries or for trapping the deer\".\n\nIn 1956 much of the route was walked and the following observations recorded - \n\na. NS 8000 0591 to NS 8260 0515: In 1985 this section had been removed by ploughing and was indistinguishable in other sections. Ardoch Farm and the A76 lie to the east.\n\nb. NS 8000 0591 to NS 8005 0595: In 1978 this length consisted of a stone and earth bank, 0.5m high and 4m wide.\n\nc. NS 8020 0601: In 1978 this section had a bank that on the north or downhill side enclosed an area of rig and furrow and lies close to the Hawkcleuch Burn.\n\nd. NS 8027 0602: In 1978 modern drains obscured the junction and the bank was 0.4m hugh and 2m wide.\n\ne. NS 8030 0603 to NS 8037 0602: In 1978 on the steep burn side slope the dyke was mostly obscured.\n\nf. NS 8037 0602 to NS 8050 0600: The route was not possible to follow. A 230 yard gap may have existed if the OS route is ignored.\n\ng. NS 8050 0600 to NS 8087 0596: In 1978 this section was hard to follow with minimal evidence. The Cowan Burn lies near by.\n\nh. NS 8089 0597: No evidence of the route remained.\n\ni. NS 8093 0596 to NS 8216 0579: The Dyke ran from the Cowan Burn to the northern side of Giengenny Hill. \n\nj. NS 8093 0596 to NS 8150 0591: In 1978 little of the route remained.\n\nk. NS 8150 0591 to NS 8213 0591: A contemporary wall runs along the route of the Dyke. The site is close to the Glengenny Burn.\n\nl. NS 8213 0591 to NS 8266 0541: Arable land is taken in here and the dyke course was rather random.\n\nm. NS 8216 0579 to NS 8272 0535: In 1956 this section had no fosse, but it did have a clearly visible bank, 6ft-9ft thick and up to 3ft high.\n\nn. NS 8258 0545: No sign of the dyke survived here.\n\no. NS 8266 0541 to NS 8272 0535: In 1978 This section had a clear profile, 2m wide and 0.7m high.\n\np. NS 8266 0541 to NS 8339 0500: Visible here in 1950.\n\nq. NS 8268 0526: In 1978 the course was not discernible from more recent dykes.\n\nr. NS 8272 0535: In 1956 the Dyke could be followed from the start of a sike tributary to Cubie's Cleuch. \n\ns. NS 8272 0535 to NS 8298 0518: In 1978 the 2m wide bank of the dyke ran to the burn.\n\nt. NS 8300 0518 to NS 8304 0511: Nothing remained of the dyke.\n\nu. NS 8304 0511 to NS 8339 0500: A farm track had obscured the dyke's course.\n\nv. NS 8404 0526: The dyke is thought to have started on the left bank of the Burnsands Burn in the area of its confluence with the River Nith.\n\nIn 1328 Durisdeer was recorded as \"Durrysder\" which in Gaelic may derive from \"dubhros\" 'a dark wood' and \"doire\" 'an oak copse', literally the \"dark wood of the oak copse.\" This description would be relevant in terms of the termination of a detached section of the Deil's Dyke in a wooded area. \n\nAs a common place name the name 'Deil' can mean the 'Devil' who together with the semi-mythological Picts were credited with building many unusual or megalithic structures; as previously stated it can also be a variant of a word meaning a march or head-dyke that divides or separate into one or more parts. The term 'Pict's Dyke' is mainly applied in the parish of Sanquhar.\n\nAreas of once extensive woodland in Nithsdale indicated on old maps such as in the 1660s a Cashogill Wood (sic) is recorded near Enterkinfoot and extended as far as Kilbryd Kirk (sic). A 'Priest Wood' is recorded on a map of 1832 lying below the old church.\n\nThe March Cleugh is a small burn with a name meaning 'boundary' that flows from near Kirkbride Hill.\n\nA March House stands near the dyke at Burnmouth and the name 'Eliock' is given to the nearby wood. The word 'Elerc' in Gaelic originally meant 'ambush' and later meant a 'deer trap' described as a funnel-like defile, artificial or natural into which deer were herded so that they could be contained and then killed. The personal or place name 'Elrick' is linked to such deer traps.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16811261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16811261", "title": "Didrichsen Art Museum", "text": "Didrichsen Art Museum\n\nDidrichsen Art Museum (, ) is an art museum in Helsinki, Finland. \n\nThe art museum was founded by Marie-Louise and Gunnar Didrichsen, who asked Finnish architect Viljo Revell to build the first of two phases in 1958 and again in 1965.\n\nRevell also request the complex to have a sculpture, Archer, added by Henry Moore in 1967; Moore and Revell worked together in the design of Toronto City Hall, which also features the Archer sculpture.\n\nThe modernist buildings are built to the contours of the land and surrounded by trees.\n\nThe museum is located on the island of Kuusisaari. The founders have since died and are buried within the compound of the museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "56985549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56985549", "title": "Douglas Adams' Starship Titanic: A Novel", "text": "Douglas Adams' Starship Titanic: A Novel\n\nDouglas Adams' Starship Titanic: A Novel is a 1997 novel requested by Adams to be written by Monty Python member Terry Jones as an unofficial tie-in to the video game by the same name.\n\nAt the center of the galaxy, an unknown civilization is preparing for an event of epic proportions, the launch of the most technologically advanced spaceship ever built - the \"Starship Titanic\". The ship that cannot possibly go wrong. Based on an idea of a cruise ship starship disaster mentioned by Adams in the novel, \"Life, the Universe and Everything\".\n\nPublished by Pan Books, 1997\n\n"}
{"id": "26619560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619560", "title": "Early Popular Visual Culture", "text": "Early Popular Visual Culture\n\nEarly Popular Visual Culture is a peer-reviewed academic journal published quarterly by Routledge, which focuses on the study of the visual arts prior to 1930.\n"}
{"id": "15767602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15767602", "title": "Edition notice", "text": "Edition notice\n\nThe edition notice (or copyright page) is the page in a book containing information about the current edition, usually on the back of the title page. It often contains a copyright notice, legal notices, publication information, printing history, cataloguing information from a national library, and an ISBN that uniquely identifies the work.\n\nAt the bottom of the edition notice one often finds a line of numbers, some of which may appear to be missing, called the printer's key. These indicate the book's print run.\n\nSometimes, there will also be a warning indicating that the book sold without a cover is a stripped book.\n\n"}
{"id": "29655040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29655040", "title": "El Zapotal", "text": "El Zapotal\n\nEl Zapotal is a Totonac culture archaeological site, located in the region known as Mixtequilla, between the Blanco and Papaloapan rivers in the Ignacio de la llave Municipality in the Veracruz State, Mexico.\n\nIts finding has great significance for the understanding of ancient cultures of Veracruz and Mexico.\n\nIt is considered that site was inhabited by the Totonac culture, grandiose pottery pieces were found, among these figures is the Mictlantecuhtli sculpture, God of death.\n\nThe various sculptures were accompanied by an ossuary composed of hundreds of ceramic figures, among them are the so-called smiling faces and a set of women with naked torso, these were called \"The ladies of the Earth\", as representations of Cihuateotl figurines.\n\nEl Zapotal is currently located on an ancient totonac city in ruins, which flourished in 600 to 900 CE, in what archaeologists call the \"classical\" period.\n\nThree native cultures inhabited the state of Veracruz territory: the Huastecs, the Totonac and the Olmec, some researchers say, they were a vast community of peoples closely related ethnically and culturally.\n\nThe area occupied by the huastecos ranged from southern Tamaulipas, part of San Luis Potosí, Puebla, Querétaro, Hidalgo and to the south the Cazones River. The oldest remains of this culture are found in the Pánuco area.\n\nThe Totonac culture settled in the center of the State, its main ceremonial center was El Tajín, while the Olmec culture, settled in the south, bordering the State of Tabasco.\n\nThe Huastec were the least developed in the State, because of the constant invasions suffered from barbarian northern peoples, which came in search of food, so there are few vestiges of their ceremonial buildings, if anything Castillo de Teayo, although identified as Totonac by some.\n\nThe \"' Totonac\"' are a native Mesoamerican culture of the Veracruz region. Formed a Confederation of cities; but toward the early 16th century were under the Aztec domain. Its economy was agricultural and commercial and had large urban centers.\n\nThe Totonac culture (translated by some as \"three hearts\", in reference to the three centers which form this culture) stands out for the very varied ceramics, stone sculptures, monumental architecture and advanced urban city conception.\n\nIn 1519 a meeting between 30 Totonac cities was held in the city of Cempoala. This would forever seal their fate and that of all Mesoamerican Nations. This was an alliance established with the Spaniards, to march together to the conquest of Tenochtitlan. The Totonac voluntarily contributed 13,000 warriors to the task, to accompany some 500 Spaniards. The Totonaca reasoning was that the Spaniards would free them from the Aztec yoke, but once the Aztec empire was successfully defeat, the Totonacs, including those of Cempoala, were subjected to the Spanish empire, and then evangelized and partly cultured, first by the new Spanish \"virreinal\" authorities and then by Mexicans.\n\nThe Totonacs developed in the central part of Veracruz, towards the late mesoamericano classical period, their occupational area reached the southern basin of the Papaloapan river, to the west the municipalities of Acatlán de Perez Figueroa, Oaxaca, Chalchicomula, Puebla, Perote Valley, the Puebla sierra, Papantla and the Cazones river lowlands. The totonaca culture apogee was reached during the mesoamericano classical period, when ceremonial centers such as El Tajín, Yohualichán, Nepatecuhtlán, Las Higueras, Nopiloa, and Zapotal were built.\n\nTheir development and perfection achieved is remarkable, in developing yokes, palms, axes, snakes, smiling caritas and monumental clay sculptures. Apparently, the Totonaca formed part of the Tula Empire and since 1450 were conquered by the Triple Alliance (Mexico) nahuas and joined their troops.\n\nThe Totonacan Languages are a family of closely related languages spoken by approximately 200,000 Totonac and Tepehua people in the states of Veracruz, Puebla, and Hidalgo in Mexico. The Totonacan languages are not demonstrably related to any other languages, although they share numerous areal features with other languages of the Mesoamerican Sprachbund, such as the Mayan languages and Nahuatl.\n\nAlthough the family is traditionally divided into two languages, Totonac and Tepehua, the various dialects thereof are not always mutually intelligible and thus Totonac and Tepehua are better characterized as families in themselves. The following classification is the one made by the Ethnologue, although some of these groups can probably be seen as forming subgroups of their own. Standard terminology is used for the dialects that the Ethnologue names differently from published scholarly works, e.g. \"Upper Necaxa Totonac\" instead of \"Totonac of Patla-Chicontla\".\n\nThe language was spoken per the following\n\n\nLike many native Mexican languages, the totonacan languages have slowly been replaced by Spanish. However, the totonacan misanteca variety is in greater danger of disappearing. Other languages are still spoken in several communities in the States of Puebla, Veracruz, Hidalgo and San Luis Potosí.\n\nDiscovered in 1971, with one of the most beautiful and impressive ceramic prehispanic sculptures. The site was occupied by Totonac. The discovery included several human burials with clay figures offerings, included was a group of women with naked torso, identified as representations of the lady of the land: Cihuatéotl, today are exhibited in the Xalapa Anthropology Museum.\n\nInformation was available about great figures of women and goddesses modeled in clay in the vicinity of the Laguna de Alvarado, in the municipality of Ignacio de la Llave, Veracruz. It was known that this region was very rich in archaeological remains.\n\nEl Zapotal is a great Totonac site whose apogee seems to have occurred at the end of the late classical and early postclassical period. Although it contains many buildings, (as is typical in Mexico) only a few have been explored.\n\nThere is an ossuary and many ceramic objects, some with excellent hand craft. Among these, there is a beautiful ceramic sculpture found in the walls of one of the buildings. This piece was an integral part of that building decoration and was made with uncooked clay.\n\nIt is thought that it corresponds to a shrine dedicated to the Death God, there were many offerings of clay figures, as well as nearly a hundred individuals, constituting the more complex and lavish funerary ritual known.\n\nThe offerings cover several stratigraphic layers, it is estimated that it was dedicated to the Lord of the dead, whose image, also modeled in clay, was uncooked. The God, that nahuatl speakers called Mictlantecuhtli is sitting on a lavish throne, whose back is integrated into the enormous headgear worn, there are human skulls sideways, heads of lizards and fantastic Jaguars.\n\nIt is a beautiful image of Mictlantecuhtli, the Death God, represented as an emaciated person.\n\nThe Death Lord is a God that represents the essence of life and death, hence it is a deity representing an intermediate state: a living dead. The body is emaciated, as its torso, arms and head with exposed some joints, bones, ribs and skull exposed. It is believed that the material with which the eyes were made depicted an alive look, in addition, its tongue hangs out, symbol of the dark underworld; the mocking expression displays the aesthetic sensitivity of Mesoamerican thought.\n\nFear of death and beauty mingle when this figure, incredible testimony of the prehispanic past is seen for the first time. It is located at a side of the sanctuary, the side walls were decorated with priests processions scenes on a red background, with the figure of the God, its throne, and headdress; some segments painted the same color are preserved.\n\nBecause of its quality, it is considered one of the most outstanding Mesoamerican cultural manifestations because all are elaborated with clay, together constitute a unique artistic style, most of the pieces found are in the Jalapa anthropology and history Museum, \"The Lord of death\" (Mitlantecuhtli), is located in the Zapotal Site Museum.\n\nBecause of its fragility, the sculpture was keep on site, a site Museum was founded.\n\nMictlantecuhtli (also Mictlantecuhtzi, o Tzontémoc): death lord and Lord of Mictlán, also the northern god, one of those holding heaven.\n\n\"'Mictlantecuhtli\"' (Nahuatl word meaning (tecuh-tli) Lord of the underworld (Mictlán)) is an Aztec, Zapotec and Mixtec underworld God and of the dead (not the Catholic concept of hell), was also called Popocatzin (from \"popoca\" 'smoking'), was therefore the God of the shadows. Together with his wife Mictecacihuatl, governed the underworld or Mictlan Kingdom. Exercised sovereignty over the \"nine underground rivers\" and on the souls of the dead. He is depicted as a human skeleton with a skull with many teeth. Associated with spiders, bats and owls, when drawn was represented with black hair and stellar (star) eyes.\n\nThe Sculpture on the right was found in the Eagle warrior House, in a sacred place of the Templo Mayor of Mexico-Tenochtitlan.\n\nFemale goddesses, warriors, Sun companions, grandiose and eternal. Fertility Symbol and lineage willingness, example of courage and deliverance. Their eyes closed, open mouth, singing to death, death or singing, eternal life and the struggle between what man is and what the gods represent.\n\nMagnificent clay sculptures, samples of mastery and mystery, walking towards Mictlan, red, blue, adorned with snails and extraordinary snakes, burning copal pleasing the gods of the sky. Are the El Zapotal Cihuatéotl, the best example of female power, of the respect that its characteristic strength gives them.\n\nTheir eyes closed, as if hiding something more than a glance behind her eyelids, hiding life reality that sometime was sublime. Mouth open, as if expressing the mother’s pain and recounted the history that hundreds of women like her lived.\n\nThere are several representations and names related, in Azteca mythology.\n\n\n\nThe Cihuateteo or Cihuapipiltin in Aztec mythology were spirits, (gods of excess), Macuiltonaleque sisters (excess gods) who were souls of noble women dead at child birth (mociuaquetzque). Contrary to the Civatateo honored as men killed in battle.\nThe Cihuateteo were pale white faces skeletons, eagle feet instead of hands and dressed with lace dresses decorated with tibias crossed.\n\nThe Codex Borgia, within the \"Great Mother\" concept, the Cihuapipiltin are the epitome of women dying at their first child birth. \"Noble women\" or Cihuateteo were the Cihuapipiltin \"divine women\". These women or mocihuaquetzque, were worshipped with extensive magical facets; parts of their bodies were prized objects for warriors and mages who saw them as magical instruments. Their hierarchy allowed them to be buried in the Cihuapipiltin temple patio. In fact, they were considered part of warriors killed in battle, of the sun entourage. They were considered responsible for adultery.\n\nThese women appear nine times in the codex, represent newly birthed women, with naked torso with full and heavy breasts, folds in the belly. There are four Cihuateteo in sheet 46 (fig. 13). The body painting is yellow with profile body to show us the folds in the womb of their status as newly birthed. On their black hair have the insignia wig made of amatzontli paper with feather ornate to indicate their sacrificed woman character (killed) in the sacred action of conceiving life. The hair is tied with a wide leather strip adorned in the front with a larger size feather. Between the latter and the wig, protrude two hair tufts placed vertically.\n\nIn times of Yenistle III King of the Totonaca dynasty, one of his wives gave birth to a girl called Tzacopomtziza (dawn shining star), because of her singular beauty was consecrated to the cult of the Tonacayohua, carer of seeding, bread and food.\n\nBut a Prince named Zkatan-Oxga (young venison) fell in love with her, while he knew that such sacrilege was punishable with death, one day when Tzacopomtziza came out of the temple, he abducted her and escaped with her to the mountain, on their way a monster wrapped them with fire waves forcing them back to where the priests anfgrily awaited them and before Zkatan-Oxga could speak, both their throats were cut. Their hearts were thrown in the goddess altar.\n\nWhen the grass dried, from their blood began to sprout a shrub, with thick foliage giving birth to a climbing orchid covering the thick foliage with amazing speed and exuberance, perfuming the ambient with its aroma. Jose de Jesús Núñez and Domínguez.\n\n\nOther archaeological sites in Veracruz:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9378348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9378348", "title": "Encyclopedia of Fairy Tales", "text": "Encyclopedia of Fairy Tales\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Fairy Tales (Enzyklopädie des Märchens) is a German reference work on international Folkloristics, which runs to fifteen volumes and is acknowledged as the most comprehensive work in its field. It examines over two centuries of research into the folk narrative tradition. It was begun by Kurt Ranke in the 1960s and was continued by chief editor Rolf Wilhelm Brednich, both of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences (Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen).\n\nLike the technical periodical \"Fabula\" it is published by the Walter de Gruyter GmbH publishing house with working premises at the Georg-August University of Göttingen and as a project of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences. The forerunner of this work was the \"Handwörterbuch des deutschen Märchens\" (\"Handbook of German Fairy Tales\"), of which only two volumes were published.\n\nThe first article \"Aarne, Antti Amatus\" appeared in slip in 1975, and the first volume in 1977. By 2014, the final fourteenth volume had been published, followed by an additional volume with lists, indexes and corrigenda in 2015. In all there are approximately 3900 articles, alphabetically arranged, from over 800 authors from over 60 countries.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Fairy Tales\" provides an overview in the following areas, as relevant to folk narrative research:\n\nThe project was begun by Kurt Ranke in the early 1960s with a small staff, and the first fascicle appeared in 1975. Ranke was not only the founder but first chief editor of the project; he was succeeded by Rolf Wilhelm Brednich, who completed the project. Other editors included Elfriede Moser-Rath (1963-1987), Max Lüthi (1973-1984), Rudolf Schenda (1973-1992), Lutz Rohrich (1973-2006), and Regina Bendix (2005-2006). Technical editors included Doris Boden, Ulrich Marzolph, Ulrike-Christine Sander, and Christine Shojaei Kawan.\nAn online-database based on the Encyclopaedia, the \"Encyclopaedia of the Folk Tale Online\", was published in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "13461083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461083", "title": "Excessivism", "text": "Excessivism\n\nExcessivism is an art movement which was introduced in 2015 by American artist and curator Kaloust Guedel with an exhibition titled \"Excessivist Initiative\". A preview of the exhibition written by art critic and curator Shana Nys Dambrot, titled \"Excessivism: Irony, Imbalance and a New Rococo\" was published in the \"Huffington Post\". Its early adopters go back to late 20th century.\n\nExcessivism is a reflection, examination, or investigation of every aspect of life in excessive state with particular consideration to the areas that have real and consequential effect on the members of the society. Subject areas are, but not limited to, economics, politics and psychology. In the area of economics it is a commentary on economic materialism. It reflects, examines and investigates the excessive desire to acquire material goods beyond one's needs and often means. Excessivism depicts the excessive use of resources in an exaggerated way, by means of two- or three-dimensional visual creations, written or spoken words, or in any other manner. It aims at a reflection, examination, or investigation of the capitalist system, devoid of aesthetic, legal, commercial, ethical, moral, racial, or religious considerations.\n\nThe goal of the capitalist system is to deliver profit for private investors, or corporations (without consideration of consequences including human and environmental), as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth. Said structure provides incomparable contribution to economic growth, employment and prosperity. According to determinism, freedom of choice is illusory and society is positioned to function as a reliable producer of excess, the lubricant of the capitalist engine.\n\nThe inaugural exhibition of Excessivism took place in LA Artcore Brewery Annex gallery with the title \"Excessivist Initiative\". And the Excessivism Manifesto was published in Downtown News weekly in September 2015. According to an art critic Shana Nys Dambrot the idea was conceived in the studio of the founder based on his personal realizations of his relationship as a consumer with the capitalist environment. Excessivism was introduced to the Los Angeles art scene in November 2014 in the Red Pipe gallery in an exhibition titled \"Excess The New Norm\". It was curated by art critic, publisher and curator Mat Gleason.\n\nThe artists included in the inaugural exhibition were Brett Baker, Christophe Baudson, Andrew Dadson, Ian Davenport, Jonas Etter, Kaloust Guedel, Don Harger, Zhu Jinshi, Fabian Marcacio, Roxy Paine, Scott Richter, Samvel Saghatelian, Elizabeth Sheppell, Michael Toenges, Michael Villarreal, Danh Vō, Cullen Washington jr., Brigid Watson, Leslie Wayne, Ai Weiwei and Zadik Zadikian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2667361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2667361", "title": "Frederic Ward Putnam", "text": "Frederic Ward Putnam\n\nFrederic Ward Putnam (April 16, 1839 – August 14, 1915) was an American anthropologist.\n\nPutnam was born and raised in Salem, Massachusetts, the son of Ebenezer (1797–1876) and Elizabeth (Appleton) Putnam. After leaving college, Ebenezer had for a short time engaged in fitting young men for college, but soon went into business in Cincinnati as a commission merchant, a line in which he was successful. Recalled to Salem by his father's death in 1826, Ebenezer married there and devoted himself to the study and cultivation of plants and fruits, and involved himself in the Democratic Party in his county. Although frequently offered office, Ebenezer never accepted, except to serve as alderman in the so-called “model-government” of Salem when that town was first chartered as a city, and as postmaster of Salem.\n\nFrederic's early studies were at private schools, and with his father at home. He became curator of ornithology at the Essex Institute in Salem in 1856. That year he published \"List of the Birds of Essex County\". A visit of Louis Agassiz to Salem, who appreciated his abilities, resulted in his taking his college studies at the Lawrence Scientific School of Harvard University, where he was a student of Agassiz at the Museum of Comparative Zoology which was also part of Harvard. However, he broke with Agassiz over the theory of evolution and led his fellow students in an academic revolt. Putnam graduated from Harvard in 1862, and his early work was as a naturalist done with fellow students he had first met while studying under Agassiz, Edward Sylvester Morse, A. S. Packard and Alpheus Hyatt. These four were later the founders of the \"American Naturalist\" in 1867. Putnam originated \"The Naturalist's Directory\" in 1865.\n\nIn 1864 Putnam became the first director of the Peabody Museum of Salem. He was closely involved with convincing George Peabody to put up the money to found the museum. In 1867 he was appointed superintendent of the East Indian Marine Society's Museum at Salem.\n\nIn 1865, Putnam published a paper on “An Indian Grave and its Contents, on Winter Island, Salem, Massachusetts.” His archeological activity may be said to date from the publication of this paper, for, on looking over the long list of titles of his publications, it will be seen that, from this time, papers on early American man steadily increase in number, and the work of the zoologist practically ceases.\n\nIn 1874 Putnam became the curator of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University from 1874 to 1909. Putnam was personable and recruited many students, including women and Native Americans. He directed archæological digs across 37 U.S. states and in other countries. In 1875, he was appointed civilian assistant on the United States surveys west of the 100th meridian, his duties being to make investigations and reports of the archæological and ethnological material collected. Putnam studied both natural history and North American archeology. Among other projects, Putnam did an archaeological survey of Ohio from 1880–1895, where he was instrumental in having the Great Serpent Mound preserved. He also surveyed New Jersey extensively.\n\nPutnam was appointed the lead curator and head of the anthropology department in 1891 for the World's Columbian Exposition, to be held in Chicago in 1893. He spent much of the two years leading up to the exposition organizing and directing expeditions dispatched to all parts of the Americas and other parts of the world to gather natural history and ethnographic items for the exhibition. As the exposition was drawing to a close, Putnam agitated for a permanent home to be found for the collection of artifacts amassed under his supervision. Late in 1893 what was to become the Field Museum of Natural History was incorporated, opening the following year. Putnam held hopes of becoming the museum's first director but was unsuccessful.\n\nPutnam was also active in professional organizations, which were rapidly organizing. In 1882 he was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society, and in 1898 he was elected president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In 1901 he was president of the American Folklore Society. In 1905 he was president of the American Anthropological Association. He was invited to become a member of the National Academy of Sciences and of many foreign learned societies.\n\nPutnam is widely known as the \"Father of American Archaeology\" for his contribution of scientific methods and direction of many of the nascent field's best students, including Arthur C. Parker.\n\nHe died in Cambridge, Massachusetts on 14 August 1915.\n\nA species of Mexican snake, \"Manolepis putnami\", is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "177793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177793", "title": "Great chain of being", "text": "Great chain of being\n\nThe Great Chain of Being is a strict hierarchical structure of all matter and life, thought in medieval Christianity to have been decreed by God. The chain starts with God and progresses downward to angels, demons (fallen/renegade angels), stars, moon, kings, princes, nobles, commoners, wild animals, domesticated animals, trees, other plants, precious stones, precious metals and other minerals.\n\nThe Great Chain of Being (, \"Ladder of Being\") is a concept derived from Plato, Aristotle (in his \"Historia Animalium\"), Plotinus and Proclus. Further developed during the Middle Ages, it reached full expression in early modern Neoplatonism.\n\nThe Chain of Being is composed of a great number of hierarchical links, from the most basic and foundational elements up through the very highest perfection: God.\n\nGod sits at the top of the chain, and beneath him sit the angels, both existing wholly in \"spirit\" form. Earthly flesh is fallible and ever-changing, mutable. Spirit, however, is unchanging and permanent. This sense of permanence is crucial to understanding this conception of reality. It is generally impossible to change the position of an object in the hierarchy. (One exception might be in the realm of alchemy, where alchemists attempted to transmute base elements, such as lead, into higher elements, either silver or, more often, gold—the highest \"element\".)\n\nIn the natural order, earth (rock) is at the bottom of the chain; this element possesses only the attribute of existence. Each link succeeding upward contains the positive attributes of the previous link and adds at least one other. Rocks possess only existence; the next link up is plants which possess life \"and\" existence. Animals add motion and appetite as well.\n\nMan is both mortal flesh, as those below him, and also spirit, as those above. In this dichotomy, the struggle between flesh and spirit becomes a moral one. The way of the spirit is higher, more noble; it brings one closer to God. The desires of the flesh move one away from God. The Christian fall of Lucifer is thought of as especially terrible, as angels are wholly spirit, yet Lucifer defied God (who is the ultimate perfection).\n\nEach link in the chain might be divided further into its component parts. In medieval secular society, for example, the king is at the top, succeeded by the aristocratic lords and the clergy, and then the peasants below them. Solidifying the king's position at the top of humanity's social order is the doctrine of the Divine Right of Kings. The implied permanent state of inequality became a source of popular grievance, and led eventually to political change as in the French Revolution. In the family, the father is head of the household; below him, his wife; below her, their children.\n\nMilton's \"Paradise Lost\" ranked the angels (c.f. Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite's ranking of angels), and Christian culture conceives of angels in orders of archangels, seraphim, and cherubim, among others.\n\nSubdivisions are equally apparent among animals. At the top of the animals are wild beasts (such as lions), which were seen as superior as they defied training and domestication. Below them are domestic animals, further sub-divided so that useful animals (such as dogs and horses) are higher than docile creatures (such as sheep). Birds are also sub-divided, with eagles above pigeons, for example. Fish come below birds and are subdivided between actual fish and other sea creatures. Below them come insects, with useful insects such as spiders and bees and attractive creatures such as ladybirds and dragonflies at the top, and unpleasant insects such as flies and beetles at the bottom. At the very bottom of the animal sector are snakes, which are relegated to this position as punishment for the serpent's actions in the Garden of Eden.\n\nBelow animals comes the division for plants, which is further subdivided. Trees are at the top, with useful trees such as oaks at the top, and the traditionally demonic yew tree at the bottom. Food-producing plants such as cereals and vegetables are further subdivided.\n\nAt the very bottom of the chain are minerals. At the top of this section are metals (further sub-divided, with gold at the top and lead at the bottom), followed by rocks (with granite and marble at the top), soil (subdivided between nutrient-rich soil and low-quality types), sand, grit, dust, and dirt at the very bottom of the entire great chain.\n\nThe central concept of the Chain of Being is that everything imaginable fits in somewhere, giving order and meaning to the universe.\n\nGod is at the top of the chain and is also external to creation. God is believed to exist outside the physical limitations of time and space. He possessed the spiritual attributes of reason, love, and imagination, like all spiritual beings, but he alone possessed the divine attributes of omnipotence, omniscience, and omnipresence. God serves as the model of authority for the strongest, most virtuous, most excellent type of being within any category.\n\nAngels were beings of pure spirit who had no physical bodies of their own. In order to affect the physical world, angels were thought to build temporary bodies for themselves out of particles of earthly elements. Medieval and Renaissance theologians believed angels to possess reason, love, imagination, and, like God, to stand outside the physical limitations of time. They possessed sensory awareness unbound by physical organs, and they possessed language. They lacked, however, the divine attributes of omnipotence, omniscience, and omnipresence of God, and they simultaneously lacked the physical passions experienced by humans and animals. Depending upon the author, the class of angels was further subdivided into three, seven, nine, or ten ranks, variously known as triads, orders, or choirs. Each rank had greater power and responsibility than the entities below them. The most common classification is that of St. Thomas Aquinas. \n\n\nFor Medieval and Renaissance thinkers, humans occupied a unique position on the Chain of Being, straddling the world of spiritual beings and the world of physical creation. Humans were thought to possess divine powers such as reason, love, and imagination. Like angels, humans were spiritual beings, but unlike angels, human souls were \"knotted\" to a physical body. As such, they were subject to passions and physical sensations—pain, hunger, thirst, sexual desire—just like other animals lower on the Chain of Being. They also possessed the powers of reproduction unlike the minerals and rocks lowest on the Chain of Being. Humans had a particularly difficult position, balancing the divine and the animalistic parts of their nature. For instance, an angel is only capable of intellectual sin such as pride (as evidenced by Lucifer's fall from heaven in Christian belief). Humans, however, were capable of both intellectual sin and physical sins such as lust and gluttony if they let their animal appetites overrule their divine reason. Humans also possessed sensory attributes: sight, touch, taste, hearing, and smell. Unlike angels, however, their sensory attributes were limited by physical organs (they could only know things discerned through the five senses). The highest-ranking human being was the king.\n\nAnimals, like humans higher on the chain, were animated (capable of independent motion). They possessed physical appetites and sensory attributes, the number depending upon their position within the Chain of Being. They had limited intelligence and awareness of their surroundings. Unlike humans, they were thought to lack spiritual and mental attributes such as immortal souls and the ability to use logic and language. The primate of all animals (the \"king of beasts\") was variously thought to be either the lion or the elephant. However, each subgroup of animals also had its own primate, an avatar superior in qualities of its type.\n\n\nNote that avian creatures, linked to the element of air, were considered superior to aquatic creatures linked to the element of water. Air naturally tended to rise and soar above the surface of water, and analogously, aerial creatures were placed higher in the chain.\n\n\nThe chart would continue to descend through various reptiles, amphibians, and insects. The higher up the chart one went, the more noble, mobile, strong, and intelligent the creature in Renaissance belief. At the very bottom of the animal section, we find sessile creatures like the oysters, clams, and barnacles. Like the plants below them, these creatures lacked mobility, and were thought to lack various sensory organs such as sight and hearing. However, they were still considered superior to plants because they had tactile and gustatory senses (touch and taste).\n\nPlants, like other living creatures, possessed the ability to grow in size and reproduce. However, they lacked mental attributes and possessed no sensory organs. Instead, their gifts included the ability to eat soil, air, and \"heat.\" Plants did have greater tolerances for heat and cold, and immunity to the pain that afflicts most animals. At the very bottom of the botanical hierarchy, fungi and mosses, lacking leaf and blossom, were so limited in form that Renaissance thinkers thought them scarcely above the level of minerals. However, each plant was also thought to be gifted with various edible or medicinal virtues unique to its own type.\n\n\nCreations of the earth, the lowest of elements, all minerals lacked the plant's basic ability to grow and reproduce. They also lacked mental attributes and sensory organs found in beings higher on the chain. Their unique gifts, however, were typically their unusual solidity and strength. Many minerals, in fact, were thought to possess magical powers, particularly gems. The mineral primate is the diamond.\n\n\nThe basic idea of a ranking of the world's organisms goes back to Aristotle's biology. In his \"History of Animals\", where he ranked animals over plants based on their ability to move and sense, and graded the animals by their reproductive mode and possession of blood (he ranked all invertebrates as \"bloodless\").\n\nAristotle's non-religious concept of higher and lower organisms was taken up by natural philosophers during the Scholastic period to form the basis of the \"Scala Naturae\". The \"scala\" allowed for an ordering of beings, thus forming a basis for classification where each kind of mineral, plant and animal could be slotted into place. In medieval times, the great chain was seen as a God-given ordering: God at the top, dirt at the bottom, every grade of creature in its place. Just as rock never turns to flowers and worms never turn to lions, humans never turn to angels. This was not our lot in life. In the Northern Renaissance, the scientific focus shifted to biology. The threefold division of the chain below humans formed the basis for Linnaeus's \"Systema Naturæ\" from 1737, where he divided the physical components of the world into the three familiar kingdoms of minerals, plants and animals.\n\nThe set nature of species, and thus the absoluteness of creatures' places in the great chain, came into question during the 18th century. The dual nature of the chain, divided yet united, had always allowed for seeing creation as essentially one continuous whole, with the potential for overlap between the links. Radical thinkers like Jean-Baptiste Lamarck saw a progression of life forms from the simplest creatures striving towards complexity and perfection, a schema accepted by zoologists like Henri de Blainville. The very idea of an ordering of organisms, even if supposedly fixed, laid the basis for the idea of transmutation of species, for example Charles Darwin's theory of evolution.\n\nThe Chain of Being continued to be part of metaphysics in 19th century education, and the concept was well known. The geologist Charles Lyell used it as a metaphor in his 1851 \"Elements of Geology\" description of the geological column, where he used the term \"missing links\" in relation to missing parts of the continuum. The term \"missing link\" later came to signify transitional fossils, particularly those bridging the gulf between man and beasts.\n\nThe idea of the great chain as well as the derived \"missing link\" was abandoned in early 20th century science, as the notion of modern animals representing ancestors of other modern animals was abandoned in biology. The idea of a certain sequence from \"lower\" to \"higher\" however lingers on, as does the idea of progress in biology.\n\nAllenby and Garreau propose the Catholic Church's narrative of the Great Chain of Being kept the peace for centuries in Europe. The very concept of rebellion simply lay outside the reality within which most people lived for to defy the King was to defy God. King James I himself wrote, \"The state of monarchy is the most supreme thing upon earth: for kings are not only God's Lieutenants upon earth, and sit upon God's throne, but even by God himself they are called Gods.\"\n\nThe Enlightenment broke this supposed divine plan and fought the last vestiges of feudal hierarchy by creating secular governmental structures that vested power into the hands of ordinary citizens rather than divinely ordained monarchs.\n\nHowever, scholars such as Brian Tierney and Michael Novak have noted the medieval contribution to democracy and human rights.\n\nThe American spiritual writer and philosopher Ken Wilber uses a concept called the \"Great Nest of Being\" which is similar to the Great Chain of Being, and which he claims to belong to a culture-independent \"perennial philosophy\" traceable across 3000 years of mystical and esoteric writings. Wilber's system corresponds with other concepts of transpersonal psychology.\n\nIn the 1977 book \"A Guide for the Perplexed\", British philosopher and economist E. F. Schumacher wrote that fundamental gaps exist between the existence of minerals, plants, animals and humans, where each of the four classes of existence is marked by a level of existence not shared by that below. Clearly influenced by the great chain of being, but lacking the angels and God, he called his hierarchy the \"levels of being\". In the book, he claims that science has generally avoided seriously discussing these discontinuities, because they present such difficulties for strictly materialistic science, and they largely remain mysteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "4884487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884487", "title": "History of the Incas", "text": "History of the Incas\n\nThe Incas were most notable for establishing the Inca Empire in pre-Columbian America, which was centered in what is now Peru from 1438 to 1533 C.E. and represented the height of the Inca civilization. The Inca state was known as the Kingdom of Cusco before 1438. Over the course of the Inca Empire, the Inca used conquest and peaceful assimilation to incorporate in their empire a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges. However, shortly after the Inca Civil War, the last Sapa Inca (emperor) of the Inca Empire was captured and killed on the orders of the conquistador Francisco Pizarro, marking the beginning of Spanish rule. The remnants of the empire retreated to the remote jungles of Vilcabamba and established the small Neo-Inca State, which was conquered by the Spanish in 1572.\n\nThe Quechua name for the empire after the reforms under Pachacuti was Tawantin Suyu, which can be translated \"The Four Regions\" or \"The Four United Regions\". Before the Quechua spelling reform it was written in Spanish as Tahuantinsuyo. \"Tawantin\" is a group of four things (\"tawa\" \"four\" with the suffix \"-ntin\" which names a group); \"suyu\" means \"region\" or \"province\".\n\nThe empire was divided into four \"suyu\"s, whose corners met at the capital, Cuzco (\"Qosqo\"), in modern-day Peru.\n\nThe official language of the empire was Quechua, although over seven hundred local languages were spoken. The Inca leadership encouraged the worship of their gods, the foremost of which was Inti, the sun god.\n\nThe Inca have four types of origin myths:\n\nThe knowledge of these myths is due to oral tradition since the Incas did not have writing. Manco Cápac, who became the leader of his tribe, probably did exist, despite lack of solid evidence. The archeological evidence seems to indicate that the Inca were a relatively unimportant tribe until the time of Sinchi Roca, also called Cinchi Roca, who is the first figure in Inca mythology whose existence can be supported historically.\n\nThe Inca people began as a tribe in the Cusco area around the 12th century AD. Under the leadership of Manco Cápac, they formed the small city-state of Cusco Quechua \"Qosqo\".\n\nIn 1438 AD, under the command of Sapa Inca (paramount leader) Pachacuti, whose name meant \"world-shaker\", they began a far-reaching expansion. The land Pachacuti conquered was about the size of the Thirteen Colonies of the United States in 1776 and consisted of about half the Andes mountain range.\n\nPachacuti reorganized the kingdom of Cusco into an empire, the Tahuantinsuyu, a federalist system which consisted of a central government with the Inca at its head and four provincial governments with strong leaders: Chinchasuyu (NW), Antisuyu (NE), Kuntisuyu (SW), and Qullasuyu (SE). Pachacuti is also thought to have built Machu Picchu, either as a family home or as a Camp David-like retreat.\n\nPachacuti would send spies to regions he wanted in his empire who would report back on their political organization, military might and wealth. He would then send messages to the leaders of these lands extolling the benefits of joining his empire, offering them presents of luxury goods such as high-quality textiles, and promising that they would be materially richer as subject rulers of the Inca. Most accepted the rule of the Inca as a \"fait accompli\" and acquiesced peacefully. The ruler's children would then be brought to Cuzco to be taught about Inca administration systems, then return to rule their native lands. This allowed the Inca to indoctrinate the former ruler's children into the Inca nobility, and, with luck, marry their daughters into families at various corners of the empire.\n\nIt was traditional for the Inca's son to lead the army; Pachacuti's son Túpac Inca began conquests to the north in 1463 and continued them as Inca after Pachucuti's death in 1471. His most important conquest was the Kingdom of Chimor, the Inca's only serious rival for the coast of Peru. Túpac Inca's empire stretched north into modern-day Ecuador and Colombia.\n\nTúpac Inca's son Huayna Cápac added significant territory to the south. At its height, Tahuantinsuyu included Peru and Bolivia, most of what is now Ecuador, a large portion of modern-day Chile, and extended into corners of Argentina and Colombia.\nTahuantinsuyu was a patchwork of languages, cultures, and peoples. The components of the empire were not all uniformly loyal, nor were the local cultures all fully integrated. The portions of the Chachapoya that had been conquered were almost openly hostile to the Inca, and the Inca nobles rejected an offer of refuge in their kingdom after their troubles with the Spanish. For instance, the Chimú used money in their commerce, while the Inca empire as a whole had an economy based on exchange and taxation of luxury goods and labour (it is said that Inca tax collectors would take the head lice of the lame and old as a symbolic tribute).\n\nEconomic productivity was based on collective labor which was organized in order to benefit the whole community. The ayni was used to help individual members of the community in need, such as a sick member of the community. The Minka or teamwork represented community service and the Mita was the tax paid to the Inca in the form of labor. The Inca did not use currency, economic exchanges were by reciprocity and took place in markets called \"catus\".\n\nSpanish conquistadors led by Francisco Pizarro explored south from Panama, reaching Inca territory by 1526. It was clear that they had reached a wealthy land with prospects of great treasure, and after one more expedition (1529), Pizarro traveled to Spain and received royal approval to conquer the region and be its viceroy.\n\nAt the time the Spanish returned to Peru, in 1532, a war of succession between Huayna Capac's sons Huáscar and Atahualpa and unrest among newly conquered territories—and perhaps more they were said to have hidden a city or gold in a vault. Significantly, smallpox, which had spread from Central America—had considerably weakened the empire.\n\nPizarro did not have a formidable force; with just 170 men, 1 cannon and only 27 horses, he often needed to talk his way out of potential confrontations that could have easily wiped out his party. Their first engagement was the battle of Puná, near present-day Guayaquil, Ecuador; Pizarro then founded the city of Piura in July 1532. Hernando de Soto was sent inland to explore the interior, and returned with an invitation to meet the Inca, Atahualpa, who had defeated his brother in the civil war and was resting at Cajamarca with his army of 80,000 troops.\n\nPizarro met with the Inca, who had brought only a small retinue, and through interpreters demanded that he convert to Christianity. A widely disputed legend claims that Atahualpa was handed a Bible and threw it on the floor, the Spanish supposedly interpreted this action as adequate reason for war. Though some chroniclers suggest that Atahualpa simply didn't understand the notion of a book, others portray Atahualpa as being genuinely curious and inquisitive in the situation. Regardless, The Spanish attacked the Inca's retinue (see Battle of Cajamarca), capturing Atahualpa.\n\nPizarro used the capture to gain gold as a ransom. Atahualpa offered the Spaniards enough gold to fill the room he was imprisoned in, and twice that amount of silver. The Incas fulfilled this ransom. Over four months, almost 8 tons of gold was collected. Pizarro was supposed to let the ruler of the Incas free once the ransom was paid, but he refused to release the Inca after that and instead had him strangled in public. During Atahualpa's imprisonment Huáscar was assassinated. The Spanish maintained that this was at Atahualpa's orders; this was one of the charges used against Atahualpa when the Spanish finally decided to put him to death, in August 1533.\n\nThe Spanish installed his brother Manco Inca Yupanqui in power; for some time Manco cooperated with the Spanish, while the Spanish fought to put down resistance in the north. Meanwhile, an associate of Pizarro's, Diego de Almagro, attempted to claim Cusco for himself. Manco tried to use this intra-Spanish feud to his advantage, recapturing Cusco (1536), but the Spanish retook the city.\n\nManco Inca then retreated to the mountains of Vilcabamba and founded the Neo-Inca State, where he and his successors ruled for another 36 years, sometimes raiding the Spanish or inciting revolts against them. In 1572 the last Inca stronghold was discovered, and the last ruler, Túpac Amaru, Manco's son, was captured and executed, bringing the Inca empire to an end.\n\nAfter the fall of Tahuantinsuyu, the new Spanish rulers repressed the people and their traditions. Many aspects of Inca culture were systematically destroyed, including their sophisticated farming system. The Spanish used the Inca mita (mandatory public service) system to get labourers for mines and plantations. One member of each family was forced to work in the gold and silver mines, the foremost of which was the silver mine at Potosí. When one family member died, which would usually happen within a year or two, the family would be required to send a replacement.\n\nThe major languages of the empire, Quechua and Aymara, were employed by the Catholic Church to evangelize in the Andean region. In some cases, these languages were taught to peoples who had originally spoken other indigenous languages. Today, Quechua and Aymara remain the most widespread Amerindian languages.\n\nThe legend of the Inca has served as inspiration for resistance movements in the region. These include the 1780 rebellion led by Tupac Amaru II against the Spanish, as well as contemporary the guerrilla movements Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) and Sendero Luminoso in Peru and Tupamaros in Uruguay.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37077608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37077608", "title": "International Journal of Francophone Studies", "text": "International Journal of Francophone Studies\n\nInternational Journal of Francophone Studies is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Intellect. It was established in 1998. The journal is abstracted and indexed by CSA, Academic Search, Historical Abstracts, British Humanities Index, Scopus, and EBSCOhost. The editor-in-chief is Kamal Salhi (University of Leeds).\n\n"}
{"id": "21141804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21141804", "title": "Iyyun", "text": "Iyyun\n\n\"Iyyun: The Jerusalem Philosophical Quarterly\" (\"Iyyun\" literally means \"inquiry\" or \"study\") is published by the S. H. Bergman Center for Philosophical Studies of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. It was established in 1945 as a Hebrew philosophical quarterly by Martin Buber, S. H. Bergman, and Julius Guttmann. As of volume 39 (1990), \"Iyyun\" appears four times a year: January and July in English, April and October in Hebrew. Each English issue carries abstracts of the articles in the previous Hebrew issue.\n\nVolume 1, no. 1 was published in October 1945, and it included papers by Ernst Cassirer, Felix Weltsch, Fritz Heinemann, Nathan Rotenstreich, and others. A double issue (vol. 1, nos. 2-3) followed in November 1946, and the fourth one appeared in July 1949, that is, from the end of World War II and through Israel's War of Independence. Ever since January 1951 (vol. 2, no. 1), \"Iyyun\" has appeared regularly.\n\nThe following is a list of some notable articles in \"Iyyun\":\n"}
{"id": "16369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16369", "title": "Justice", "text": "Justice\n\nJustice is the legal or philosophical theory by which fairness is administered. As with most philosophically-driven disciplines, the concept of justice differs in every culture. An early theory of justice was set out by the Ancient Greek philosopher Plato in his work \"The Republic\". Advocates of divine command theory say that justice issues from God. In the 17th century, theorists like John Locke advocated natural rights as a derivative of justice. Thinkers in the social contract tradition state that justice is derived from the mutual agreement of everyone concerned. In the 19th century, utilitarian thinkers including John Stuart Mill said that justice is what has the best consequences. Theories of distributive justice concern what is distributed, between whom they are to be distributed, and what is the \"proper\" distribution. Egalitarians state that justice can only exist within the coordinates of equality. John Rawls used a theory of social contract to show that justice, and especially distributive justice, is a form of fairness. Property rights theorists (like Robert Nozick) take a deontological view of distributive justice and state that property rights-based justice maximizes the overall wealth of an economic system. Theories of retributive justice are concerned with punishment for wrongdoing. Restorative justice (also sometimes called \"reparative justice\") is an approach to justice that focuses on restoring what is good, and necessarily focuses on the needs of victims and offenders.\n\nIn his dialogue \"Republic\", Plato uses Socrates to argue for justice that covers both the just person and the just City State. Justice is a proper, harmonious relationship between the warring parts of the person or city. Hence, Plato's definition of justice is that justice is the having and doing of what is one's own. A just man is a man in just the right place, doing his best and giving the precise equivalent of what he has received. This applies both at the individual level and at the universal level. A person's soul has three parts – reason, spirit and desire. Similarly, a city has three parts – Socrates uses the parable of the chariot to illustrate his point: a chariot works as a whole because the two horses' power is directed by the charioteer. Lovers of wisdom – philosophers, in one sense of the term – should rule because only they understand what is good. If one is ill, one goes to a medic rather than a farmer, because the medic is expert in the subject of health. Similarly, one should trust one's city to an expert in the subject of the good, not to a mere politician who tries to gain power by giving people what they want, rather than what's good for them. Socrates uses the parable of the ship to illustrate this point: the unjust city is like a ship in open ocean, crewed by a powerful but drunken captain (the common people), a group of untrustworthy advisors who try to manipulate the captain into giving them power over the ship's course (the politicians), and a navigator (the philosopher) who is the only one who knows how to get the ship to port. For Socrates, the only way the ship will reach its destination – the good – is if the navigator takes charge.\n\nAdvocates of divine command theory argue that justice, and indeed the whole of morality, is the authoritative command of God. Murder is wrong and must be punished, for instance, because God says it so. Some versions of the theory assert that God must be obeyed because of the nature of his relationship with humanity, others assert that God must be obeyed because he is goodness itself, and thus doing what he says would be best for everyone.\n\nA meditation on the Divine command theory by Plato can be found in his dialogue, Euthyphro. Called the Euthyphro dilemma, it goes as follows: \"Is what is morally good commanded by God because it is morally good, or is it morally good because it is commanded by God?\" The implication is that if the latter is true, then justice is arbitrary; if the former is true, then morality exists on a higher order than God, who becomes little more than a passer-on of moral knowledge. A response, popularized in two contexts by Immanuel Kant and C. S. Lewis, is that it is deductively valid to argue that the existence of an objective morality implies the existence of God and vice versa.\n\nFor advocates of the theory that justice is part of natural law (e.g., John Locke), it involves the system of consequences that naturally derives from any action or choice. In this, it is similar to the laws of physics: in the same way as the Third of Newton's laws of Motion requires that for every action there must be an equal and opposite reaction, justice requires according individuals or groups what they actually deserve, merit, or are entitled to. Justice, on this account, is a universal and absolute concept: laws, principles, religions, etc., are merely attempts to codify that concept, sometimes with results that entirely contradict the true nature of justice.\n\nIn \"Republic\" by Plato, the character Thrasymachus argues that justice is the interest of the strong – merely a name for what the powerful or cunning ruler has imposed on the people.\nAdvocates of the social contract agree that justice is derived from the mutual agreement of everyone concerned; or, in many versions, from what they would agree to under \"hypothetical\" conditions including equality and absence of bias. This account is considered further below, under 'Justice as fairness'. The absence of bias refers to an equal ground for all people concerned in a disagreement (or trial in some cases).\n\nAccording to utilitarian thinkers including John Stuart Mill, justice is not as fundamental as we often think. Rather, it is derived from the more basic standard of rightness, consequentialism: what is right is what has the best consequences (usually measured by the total or average welfare caused). So, the proper principles of justice are those that tend to have the best consequences. These rules may turn out to be familiar ones such as keeping contracts; but equally, they may not, depending on the facts about real consequences. Either way, what is important is those consequences, and justice is important, if at all, only as derived from that fundamental standard. Mill tries to explain our mistaken belief that justice is overwhelmingly important by arguing that it derives from two natural human tendencies: our desire to retaliate against those who hurt us, or the feeling of self-defense and our ability to put ourselves imaginatively in another's place, sympathy. So, when we see someone harmed, we project ourselves into her situation and feel a desire to retaliate on her behalf. If this process is the source of our feelings about justice, that ought to undermine our confidence in them.\n\nTheories of distributive justice need to answer three questions:\n\nDistributive justice theorists generally do not answer questions of \"who has the right\" to enforce a particular favored distribution. On the other hand, property rights theorists argue that there is no \"favored distribution.\" Rather, distribution should be based simply on whatever distribution results from lawful interactions or transactions (that is, transactions which are not illicit).\n\nThis section describes some widely held theories of distributive justice, and their attempts to answer these questions.\n\nSocial justice is concerned with the just relationship between individuals and their society, often considering how privileges, opportunities, and wealth ought to be distributed among individuals. Social justice is distinct from egalitarianism, which is the idea that all people are equal in terms of status, value, or rights, as social justice theories do not all require equality. For example, sociologist George C. Homans suggested that the root of the concept of justice is that each person should receive rewards that are proportional to their contributions.\n\nAccording to the egalitarian, justice can exist only within the parameters of equality. This basic view can be elaborated in many ways, according to what goods are to be distributed – wealth, respect, opportunity – and who or what they are to be distributed equally among – individuals, families, nations, races, species. Egalitarian theories are typically less concerned with discussing who exactly will do the distributing or what effects their recommended policies will have on the production of the goods, services, or resources they wish to distribute.\n\nCommonly held egalitarian positions include demands for equality of opportunity, though equality of opportunity is often defended by adherents of nonegalitarian conceptions of justice as well. Some variants of egalitarianism affirm that justice without equality is hollow and that equality itself is the highest justice, though such a formulation will have concrete meaning only once the main terms have been fleshed out.\n\nAt a cultural level, egalitarian theories have developed in sophistication and acceptance during the past two hundred years. Among the notable broadly egalitarian philosophies are communism, socialism, left-libertarianism, and progressivism, which propound economic, political, and legal egalitarianism, respectively.\n\nIn his \"A Theory of Justice\", John Rawls used a social contract argument to show that justice, and especially distributive justice, is a form of fairness: an impartial distribution of goods. Rawls asks us to imagine ourselves behind a veil of ignorance that denies us all knowledge of our personalities, social statuses, moral characters, wealth, talents and life plans, and then asks what theory of justice we would choose to govern our society when the veil is lifted, if we wanted to do the best that we could for ourselves. We don't know who in particular we are, and therefore can't bias the decision in our own favour. So, the decision-in-ignorance models fairness, because it excludes selfish bias. Rawls argues that each of us would reject the utilitarian theory of justice that we should maximize welfare (see below) because of the risk that we might turn out to be someone whose own good is sacrificed for greater benefits for others. Instead, we would endorse Rawls's \"two principles of justice\":\n\nThis imagined choice justifies these principles as the principles of justice for us, because we would agree to them in a fair decision procedure. Rawls's theory distinguishes two kinds of goods – (1) the good of liberty rights and (2) social and economic goods, i.e. wealth, income and power – and applies different distributions to them – equality between citizens for (1), equality unless inequality improves the position of the worst off for (2).\n\nIn one sense, theories of distributive justice may assert that everyone should get what they deserve. Theories disagree on the meaning of what is \"deserved\". The main distinction is between theories that argue the basis of just deserts ought to be held equally by everyone, and therefore derive egalitarian accounts of distributive justice – and theories that argue the basis of just deserts is unequally distributed on the basis of, for instance, hard work, and therefore derive accounts of distributive justice by which some should have more than others.\n\nAccording to \"meritocratic\" theories, goods, especially wealth and social status, should be distributed to match individual \"merit\", which is usually understood as some combination of talent and hard work. According to \"needs\"-based theories, goods, especially such basic goods as food, shelter and medical care, should be distributed to meet individuals' basic needs for them. Marxism is a needs-based theory, expressed succinctly in Marx's slogan \"from each according to his ability, to each according to his need\". According to \"contribution\"-based theories, goods should be distributed to match an individual's contribution to the overall social good.\n\nIn \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\", Robert Nozick argues that distributive justice is not a matter of the whole distribution matching an ideal \"pattern\", but of each individual entitlement having the right kind of \"history\". It is just that a person has some good (especially, some property right) if and only if they came to have it by a history made up entirely of events of two kinds:\n\nIf the chain of events leading up to the person having something meets this criterion, they are entitled to it: that they possess it is just, and what anyone else does or doesn't have or need is irrelevant.\n\nOn the basis of this theory of distributive justice, Nozick argues that all attempts to redistribute goods according to an ideal pattern, without the consent of their owners, are theft. In particular, redistributive taxation is theft.\n\nSome property rights theorists (like Nozick) also take a consequentialist view of distributive justice and argue that property rights based justice also has the effect of maximizing the overall wealth of an economic system. They explain that voluntary (non-coerced) transactions always have a property called Pareto efficiency. The result is that the world is better off in an absolute sense and no one is worse off. Such consequentialist property rights theorists argue that respecting property rights maximizes the number of Pareto efficient transactions in the world and minimized the number of non-Pareto efficient transactions in the world (i.e. transactions where someone is made worse off). The result is that the world will have generated the greatest total benefit from the limited, scarce resources available in the world. Further, this will have been accomplished without taking anything away from anyone unlawfully.\n\nAccording to the utilitarian, justice requires the maximization of the total or average welfare across all relevant individuals. This may require sacrifice of some for the good of others, so long as everyone's good is taken impartially into account. Utilitarianism, in general, argues that the standard of justification for actions, institutions, or the whole world, is \"impartial welfare consequentialism\", and only indirectly, if at all, to do with rights, property, need, or any other non-utilitarian criterion. These other criteria might be indirectly important, to the extent that human welfare involves them. But even then, such demands as human rights would only be elements in the calculation of overall welfare, not uncrossable barriers to action.\n\nTheories of retributive justice are concerned with punishment for wrongdoing, and need to answer three questions:\nThis section considers the two major accounts of retributive justice, and their answers to these questions. \"Utilitarian\" theories look forward to the future consequences of punishment, while \"retributive\" theories look back to particular acts of wrongdoing, and attempt to balance them with deserved punishment.\n\nAccording to the utilitarian, justice requires the maximization of the total or average welfare across all relevant individuals. Punishment fights crime in three ways:\nSo, the reason for punishment is the maximization of welfare, and punishment should be of whomever, and of whatever form and severity, are needed to meet that goal. This may sometimes justify punishing the innocent, or inflicting disproportionately severe punishments, when that will have the best consequences overall (perhaps executing a few suspected shoplifters live on television would be an effective deterrent to shoplifting, for instance). It also suggests that punishment might turn out \"never\" to be right, depending on the facts about what actual consequences it has.\n\nThe retributivist will think consequentialism is mistaken. If someone does something wrong we must respond by punishing for the committed action itself, regardless of what outcomes punishment produces. Wrongdoing must be balanced or made good in some way, and so the criminal \"deserves\" to be punished. It says that all guilty people, and only guilty people, deserve appropriate punishment. This matches some strong intuitions about just punishment: that it should be \"proportional\" to the crime, and that it should be of \"only\" and \"all of\" the guilty. However, it is sometimes argued that retributivism is merely revenge in disguise. However, there are differences between retribution and revenge: the former is impartial and has a scale of appropriateness, whereas the latter is personal and potentially unlimited in scale.\n\nRestorative justice (also sometimes called \"reparative justice\") is an approach to justice that focuses on the needs of victims and offenders, instead of satisfying abstract legal principles or punishing the offender. Victims take an active role in the process, while offenders are encouraged to take responsibility for their actions, \"to repair the harm they've done – by apologizing, returning stolen money, or community service\". It is based on a theory of justice that considers crime and wrongdoing to be an offense against an individual or community rather than the state. Restorative justice that fosters dialogue between victim and offender shows the highest rates of victim satisfaction and offender accountability.\n\nSome modern philosophers have argued that Utilitarian and Retributive theories are not mutually exclusive. For example, Andrew von Hirsch, in his 1976 book \"Doing Justice\", suggested that we have a moral obligation to punish greater crimes more than lesser ones. However, so long as we adhere to that constraint then utilitarian ideals would play a significant secondary role.\n\nIt has been argued that 'systematic' or 'programmatic' political and moral philosophy in the West begins, in Plato's Republic, with the question, 'What is Justice?' According to most contemporary theories of justice, justice is overwhelmingly important: John Rawls claims that \"Justice is the first virtue of social institutions, as truth is of systems of thought.\" In classical approaches, evident from Plato through to Rawls, the concept of 'justice' is always construed in logical or 'etymological' opposition to the concept of injustice. Such approaches cite various examples of injustice, as problems which a theory of justice must overcome. A number of post-World War II approaches do, however, challenge that seemingly obvious dualism between those two concepts. Justice can be thought of as distinct from benevolence, charity, prudence, mercy, generosity, or compassion, although these dimensions are regularly understood to also be interlinked. Justice is the concept of cardinal virtues, of which it is one. Metaphysical justice has often been associated with concepts of fate, reincarnation or Divine Providence, i.e., with a life in accordance with a cosmic plan. The association of justice with fairness is thus historically and culturally inalienable.\n\nLaw raises important and complex issues concerning equality, fairness, and justice. There is an old saying that 'All are equal before the law'. The belief in equality before the law is called legal egalitarianism. In criticism of this belief, the author Anatole France said in 1894, \"In its majestic equality, the law forbids rich and poor alike to sleep under bridges, beg in the streets, and steal loaves of bread.\" With this saying, France illustrated the fundamental shortcoming of a theory of legal equality that remains blind to social inequality;\nthe same law applied to all may have disproportionately harmful effects on the least powerful.\n\nEquality before the law is one of the basic principles of classical liberalism. Classical liberalism calls for equality before the law, not for equality of outcome. Classical liberalism opposes pursuing group rights at the expense of individual rights.\n\nJews, Muslims and Christians traditionally believe that justice is a present, real, right, and, specifically, governing concept along with mercy, and that justice is ultimately derived from and held by God. According to the Bible, such institutions as the Mosaic Law were created by God to require the Israelites to live by and apply His standards of justice.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible describes God as saying about the Judeo-Christian patriarch Abraham: \"No, for I have chosen him, that he may charge his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice;...\" (Genesis 18:19, NRSV). The Psalmist describes God as having \"Righteousness and justice [as] the foundation of [His] throne;...\" (Psalms 89:14, NRSV).\n\nThe New Testament also describes God and Jesus Christ as having and displaying justice, often in comparison with God displaying and supporting mercy (Matthew 5:7).\n\nIn criminal law, a sentence forms the final explicit act of a judge-ruled process, and also the symbolic principal act connected to his function. The sentence can generally involve a decree of imprisonment, a fine and/or other punishments against a defendant convicted of a crime. Laws may specify the range of penalties that can be imposed for various offenses, and sentencing guidelines sometimes regulate what punishment within those ranges can be imposed given a certain set of offense and offender characteristics. The most common purposes of sentencing in legal theory are:\n\nIn civil cases the decision is usually known as a verdict, or judgment, rather than a sentence. Civil cases are settled primarily by means of monetary compensation for harm done (\"damages\") and orders intended to prevent future harm (for example injunctions). Under some legal systems an award of damages involves some scope for retribution, denunciation and deterrence, by means of additional categories of damages beyond simple compensation, covering a punitive effect, social disapprobation, and potentially, deterrence, and occasionally disgorgement (forfeit of any gain, even if no loss was caused to the other party).\n\nEvolutionary ethics and an argued evolution of morality suggest evolutionary bases for the concept of justice. Biosocial criminology research argues that human perceptions of what is appropriate criminal justice are based on how to respond to crimes in the ancestral small-group environment and that these responses may not always be appropriate for today's societies.\n\nStudies at UCLA in 2008 have indicated that reactions to fairness are \"wired\" into the brain and that, \"Fairness is activating the same part of the brain that responds to food in rats... This is consistent with the notion that being treated fairly satisfies a basic need\". Research conducted in 2003 at Emory University involving capuchin monkeys demonstrated that other cooperative animals also possess such a sense and that \"inequity aversion may not be uniquely human\".\n\nIn a world where people are interconnected but they disagree, institutions are required to instantiate ideals of justice. These institutions may be justified by their approximate instantiation of justice, or they may be deeply unjust when compared with ideal standards – consider the institution of slavery. Justice is an ideal the world fails to live up to, sometimes due to deliberate opposition to justice despite understanding, which could be disastrous. The question of institutive justice raises issues of legitimacy, procedure, codification and interpretation, which are considered by legal theorists and by philosophers of law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4383399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4383399", "title": "Kothar-wa-Khasis", "text": "Kothar-wa-Khasis\n\nKothar-wa-Khasis (Ugaritic: 𐎋𐎘𐎗𐎆𐎃𐎒𐎒 \"Kothar-wa-Khasis\" ) is an Ugaritic god whose name means \"Skillful-and-Wise\" or \"Adroit-and-Perceptive\" or \"Deft-and-Clever\". Another of his names means \"Deft-with-both-hands\". Kothar is smith, craftsman, engineer, architect, and inventor. He is also soothsayer and magician, creating sacred words and spells, in part because there is an association in many cultures of metalworking deities with magic. The god-name Ka-sha-lu (citation needed) in texts from Ebla suggests that he was known in Syria as early as the late third millennium BC.\n\nKothar aids Baal in his battles, as recounted in the Myth of Baal, by creating and naming two magic clubs (Yagrush and Ayamur) with which Baʿal defeats Yam. Kothar also creates beautiful furniture adorned with silver and gold as gifts for Athirat. And he builds Baʿal's palace of silver, gold, lapis lazuli, and fragrant cedar wood. One of his significant actions is as the opener of the window through which Baʿal's rains can come and go to fertilize the earth and provide for the continuance of life.\n\nKothar's abode is Egypt, written in Ugaritic as HKPT (read perhaps as \"hikaptah\") and derived from the Egyptian \"ḥwt kꜣ ptḥ\", \"the house of the ka of Ptah\", used in reference to Memphis and paralleled in a poem with KPTR, representing Caphtor. Memphis is the site of the temple of Ptah, the Egyptian god responsible for crafts, whose name means \"the Opener\".\n\nIn his book on the Myth of Baal, Mark S. Smith notes that there is a possible pun involved in Kothar's epithet \"The Opener\". According to the Phoenician mythology related by Mochos of Sidon, as cited in Damascius's \"De principiis\" (Attridge and Oden 1981:102-03), Chusor, Kothar's name in Phoenician Greek, was the first \"opener.\" Assuming the West Semitic root *pth, \"to open,\" Albright argues that this title represents word-play on the name of the Egyptian god Ptah.\n\nSmith further explains Kothar's double abodes as reflexes of metal or craft trade both from Egypt and from the Mediterranean Sea to Ugarit, as Kothar is imputed to be the divine patron of these skills.\n\nKothar had a minor role in ancient Egyptian religion, as the mythological builder of chapels for Egypt's more important deities.\n\n"}
{"id": "2055004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2055004", "title": "Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo", "text": "Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo\n\nLes Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo is an all-male drag ballet troupe that parodies the conventions of romantic and classical ballet. In 2008, they performed at the Royal Variety Performance in front of Prince Charles. The company's current artistic director is Tory Dobrin. \n\nThe dancers portray both male and female roles in a humorous style that combines parodies of ballet, posing, and physical comedy with \"straighter\" pieces intended to show off the performers' technical skills. Much of the humor is the male dancers performing \"en travesti\" in roles usually reserved for females, while wearing tutus and dancing \"en pointe\".\n\nPrior to founding the founding of Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo, members of Charles Ludlam's Ridiculous Theatre Company formed a company called the Trockadero Gloxinia Ballet Company in 1972. This company included Larry Ree, Richard Goldberger, Lohr Wilson, Roy Blakey, Peter Anastos, Natch Taylor, and Anthony Bassae. They often performed at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in the East Village of Manhattan. \n\nProductions at La MaMa included \"Sobechenskaya Dances\" in 1972, multiple productions titled \"Ekathrina Sobechenskaya Dances with the Troxadero Gloxinia Ballet Company\" in 1974, and \"Ekathrina Sobechenskaya Dances with the Original Trockadero Gloxinia Ballet Company\" in 1975. They continued to perform at La MaMa in 1976 and 1977, then returned in 1982, twice in 1987, and in 1990, with \"Madame Ekathrina Sobechenskaya's Original Trocadero Gloxinia Ballet\". \n\nLes Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo was co-founded by Peter Anastos, Natch Taylor, and Anthony Bassae, all of the Trockadero Gloxinia Ballet Company, in 1974. They initially produced small, late-night shows in off-off-Broadway spaces. The troupe's first show was on September 9, 1974 in a second-story loft on 14th Street in the Meatpacking District. After receiving a favorable review in \"The New Yorker\" by Arlene Croce, the company was discovered by a wider audience. The \"Trocks\" toured the world, with prolonged engagements in many major cities.\n\nFrom the classical repertoire\n\nOther works\n\n\nSolo works\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14391574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14391574", "title": "Marion Frances Chevalier", "text": "Marion Frances Chevalier\n\nMarion Frances Chevalier (January 21, 1902 – February 17, 1990) was a philologist best known for her discovery in the Bibliothèque d'Orléans of \"The Adventures and Marriage of Panurge\", a play by Pousset de Montauban that had remained unknown for 250 years and was the first drama derived from the works of Rabelais. Her analysis of this play formed the basis of her Ph.D. thesis, in 1933, from Johns Hopkins University, under the supervision of Henry Carrington Lancaster. She is the namesake of a professorship in French and Comparative Literature at the University of Southern California, currently held by Peggy Kamuf. A photograph of her can be found in the Johns Hopkins University Historical Photograph Collection.\n"}
{"id": "1367994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367994", "title": "Meletius Smotrytsky", "text": "Meletius Smotrytsky\n\nMeletius Smotrytsky (; ; ), né Maksym Herasymovytch Smotrytsky (c. 1577 – 17 or 27 December, 1633), Archbishop of Polotsk (Metropolitan of Kiev), was a writer, a religious and pedagogical activist of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, a Ruthenian linguist whose works influenced the development of the Eastern Slavic languages. His book \"Slavonic Grammar with Correct Syntax\" (1619) systematized the study of Church Slavonic and, according to Vinokur, \"became the standard grammar book in Russia right up till the end of the 18th century.\" He believed in the revival of the Orthodox religion in traditionally Slavic lands (see Slavic people) centered in the Tsardom of Russia.\n\nBorn in Smotrych, Podilia, Meletius was a son of the famous writer and pedagogue Herasym Smotrytsky. He received his first formal educated at the Ostroh Academy, where his father was a rector. The academy is the oldest institution of higher learning in Eastern Europe. Later, he studied at Vilnius University, a Jesuit institution, between approximately 1596 and 1600. After that, Smotrytsky traveled through Europe, continuing his education at universities in Leipzig, Wittenberg and Nuremberg.\n\nIn 1608, Meletius returned to Vilnius where he became a member of a local fraternity. Under his pen name \"Theophile Ortologue\" he wrote his famous polemic \"Thrynos\". Sometime in 1615-18 Smotrytsky was a teacher of Church Slavonic and Latin in the newly established Kiev Fraternity School. Subsequently, he became one of its first rectors. In 1616, he published a Ruthenian translation of \"Teacher's Gospel... of Calisto\" and in 1615 in Cologne he published a Greek-language grammar. In 1618, Smotrytsky returned to Vilnius where at the Holy Spirit Monastery he took vows as a monk and assumed the name Miletius. There, in the city of Vievis, he participated in publishing \"Dictionary of the Slavic Language\" (1618), and later, in 1619, \"Slavonic Grammar with Correct Syntax\".\n\nIn 1620, Meletius Smotrytsky became the Archbishop of Polotsk (Metropolitan of Kiev), bishop of Vitebsk and Mstyslaw. Around that time he published several anti-Union (see Union of Brest) works for which he was persecuted by the Polish authorities. During 1624 Smotrytsky traveled to Constantinople, Egypt, Palestine, after which in 1625 he returned to Kiev.\n\nEventually, by 1627. he sided with followers of the Union and became the Archimandrite of the Derman Monastery. Pope Urban VIII granted Smotrytsky the title of Archbishop of Hierpolski. Smotrytsky is buried at the Derman Monastery.\n\nCatholic and Orthodox authors have long debated Smotrytsky's reasons for abandoning Orthodoxy and converting to the Uniate Church. Uniate Catholics have argued that the conversion was a miracle based on the intercession of Martyr Saint Josaphat Kuntsevych. This explanation, first advanced by Josyf Veliamyn Rutsky, appears in the papal Bull of Pope Pius IX canonizing Kuncewicz. Smotrytysky also compared himself with Paul of Tarsus, suddenly relapsed after the stoning of Saint Stephen. Orthodox Christians, in turn, attributed his conversion to worldly reasons: alleging that he was tempted by the money and prestige of an imminent appointment as Abbot of a Uniate monastery in Dermaniu. The former archbishop of Polotsk was portrayed as a traitor to the true faith, and was compared with Judas or Martin Luther. Against Meletius Smotrytsky a whole group of Orthodox pamphlets was written. In his letters, he rarely referred to his reasons for changing his religion, contrasting instead the \"old\" and \"new\" Smotrytsky. He suggested that before his conversion he was not sure what he really believed, while his adoption of Catholicism restored his confidence in this regard. He also gave different dates for his decision to accept the Union, from 1623 (before leaving for Constantinople) up to 1628. He said that since 1615 he had waged an internal battle, growing stronger in the course of writing his own texts; in them he defended the Orthodox dogma with diminishing conviction, suggesting that, even before chirotonią, the bishop did not agree with the spirit of brotherhood following his anti-Uniate publication from Vilnius. A number of scholars claim that Archbishop Meletius decided to convert to the Union under the influence of disenchantment which earned him a trip to Constantinople. This decision was the result of a deep spiritual crisis and the ultimate belief that the only thing that could help the revival of the Ruthenian people and culture was binding ancient Rus' lands with the Polish-Lithuanian state, and union of the churches. Mironowicz claims that Smotrytsky's disappointing experience with a trip to two of the ancient patriarchates meant that he decided to devote all his strength to the union \"of Rus\" in one Uniate Church. On July 6, 1627 Meletius Smotrytsky sent a letter to Pope Urban VIII, asking for forgiveness of his sins and acceptance into the Catholic Church. A second letter was addressed to Cardinal Ottavio Bandini, which promised that from then on he would not stray \"even a hair's breadth\" from the Catholic faith. On July 10, 1627 Uniate Archbishop Josyf Veliamyn Rutsky was instructed in a letter from the pope to convert Meletius Smotrytsky. The fact is that the profession of faith by a former Orthodox archbishop and polemicist was even then being kept secret. Smotrystsky asked the pope for permission to temporarily keep his Orthodox titles and duties apparent in a separate letter sent at the same time as the letter requesting admission to the Catholic Church.\n\nFollowing the adoption of the Union Smotrytsky was a huge advocate of complete reunification of the Church. He hid the fact that he had already converted to the Union. His attitude, however, began to raise suspicions among the clergy. While retaining his popularity among the priests and faithful in Belarus, he lost trust among both the Vilnius fraternity and Kiev monks in monasteries. At the same time, Catholics were not yet convinced that Smotrytsky maintained full fidelity to his recently adopted Catholicism. On April 8, 1628, Cardinal Ludovisi in a letter to Alexander Zasławski demanded that the minister make a public profession of the Catholic faith. Smotrycki by then no longer resided in Vilnius, but in a monastery in Derman. The events that led to the final disclosure of Smotrytsky's conversion to Catholicism are known from a number of documents originating from himself or from his Orthodox opponents. Smotrytsky claimed that for the first time after conversion he had met with the Orthodox bishops of the Republic during the celebration of the Nativity of Our Lady in 1627 in Kiev. The meeting was also attended by Peter Mogila, who was still a layman. Mogila and Archbishop Job asked Smotrycki to show them the catechism which the Patriarch of Constantinople had presented. The next meeting of the hierarchy took place on the sixth Sunday of Lent in Horodku, on property belonging to the Kyiv Pechersk Lavra. It was attended, in addition to Meletius Smotrytsky, by the Metropolitan Job, Bishop Isaac of Lutsk, Chelm Paisjusz and Peter Mogila, who was already igumen in the Kyiv Pechersk Lavra. Smotrytsky delivered a speech at the meeting, discussing the six basic differences between the two confessions. Then the assembled council decided to convene the Orthodox Church in Kiev; not only the clergy had taken part in it, but also representatives of the Orthodox nobility and bourgeoisie. The bishops agreed to present at the Council a draft union for the Orthodox and Uniate Churches. Hierarchs agreed thereby that contrary to earlier findings, Meletius Smotrycki published no new treaty discussing the differences between the rival churches. Smotrytsky later argued that both Metropolitan Job and Peter Mogila allowed for the conclusion of a new union. It was not until a great anti-union stance by the Cossacks in attendance at the council to Kiev that they were prompted to change their position. Smotrycki was increasingly suspected of pro-Uniate sympathies. Therefore, after his arrival in Kiev he was not accommodated in Pechersk Lavra and had to live in the monastery of St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery. The priest wrote that he had been in the council visited by representatives of the Cossacks, who threatened him with death, in the event that the Orthodox hierarchy agreed to join the union. His design of a new union of church and arguments for the introduction signed the Treaty of Apology peregrinated to Eastern countries. Discussion on Smotrytsky's projects of union were held at the Kyiv council without the participation of Cossack delegates. Smotrytsky was accused of preaching heresy, including Sabellianism and Manichaeism. Smotrytsky's works that occurred in the years 1628-1629 were also repeatedly criticized publicly by the Orthodox monks. This meant the failure of pro-union initiatives, although projects to unite the two Churches were still presented in the following years. Smotrytsky's arguments in favor of union were presented again in 1629 published in Paraenensis, but were not supported by Orthodox Bishops.\nSmotrycki was considered Orthodox bishop in January 1629 (Joseph Bobrykowicz was even then his deputy in the office of the monastery of Saint Spirit in Vilnius), but a few months later the Orthodox clearly recognized him as a traitor, who renounced his former profession of private material benefits. Also the Catholic Church immediately after the council of Kiev decided Smotrytsky to be not fully devoted to the union, especially since it was still not publicly acknowledged that he had left Orthodoxy. In September 1629 Smotrytsky took part in Orthodox-Uniate Synod in Lviv, where he had already performed at the opening of the Uniate and Orthodox negotiations to convert to Catholicism. It was his last public appearance during which he took voice on issues of religion and the position of the Ruthenian nation. Synod of Lviv, in which assumptions and Uniate Metropolitan King was to lead to the establishment of the Republic of the Uniate Patriarchate, ended in the complete failure, because neither the Orthodox hierarchy, and even sent a fraternity Lvov agreed with their delegates.\n\nSmotrytsky could not remain archbishop of Polotsk, as the cathedral was already planted the Uniate Church. Josyf Velamyn Rutsky even suggested granting him the title of Bishop of Halych. Finally, on June 5, 1631, Pope Urban VIII gave him the title of Archbishop of Hierapolis. Thus, the former Orthodox archbishop of Polotsk had dignity in the Catholic Church, which did not give any real powers. The reason for such a decision was that the pope could have a negative assessment of Smotrytsky's attitudes at council in Kiev, where he pleaded not guilty to his conversion. Still in 1631 Smotrytsky wrote to Rome that he would like to be bishop of a Diocese of actually running in Ruthenia. At the same time he refused to travel as a missionary to Athos, where, he said, his work would not have prospects of success. Uniate clergy in letters to Rome consistently asserted that Smotrytsky eagerly engaged in the life of the Church. A multitude of these letters suggest, however, that for the rest of his life he remained under close supervision of the Uniate hierarchy. Smotrytsky still received letters from the brotherhood of Vilnius and from some Orthodox monks. In his letters, he appealed to the Orthodox to accept the union, as long as they were still society composed not only of peasants. In this way, they would retain certain rights and privileges. In the last four years of his life Smotrytsky did no theological work and never took the public to speak on matters connected with the Church. On February 16, 1630 Smotrytsky addressed to Pope Urban VIII, another letter in which he presented a new plan for the evolution of the Commonwealth, in which he suggested the use of force to spread the union by uniting the efforts of the Church, the State and the Catholic magnates. Smotrytsky's ever-increasing intolerance resulted from his conviction that only by adopt the union Ruthenians would become a political nation, respected on par with Poles and Lithuanians and preserving their autonomy. He was also convinced that attachment to the Ruthenian Catholic Church could bring a moral renewal of the Orthodox Church, as the former enjoyed the greatest freedom and had the best educated clergy. Meletius Smotrytsky died on December 27, 1633. His last confessor, Jesuit Wojciech Kortycki, dedicated to his memory eulogy he delivered then print. Metropolitan Joseph Welamin Rutski claimed Smotrycki was poisoned by the Orthodox deacon, which hired a scribe. He was buried in the monastery in Derman, which remained his residence from 1627.\n\nDuring Josaphat Kuntsevych's beatification in 1637, Meletius Smotrytsky's beatification was also discussed because he was a persecutor of the union but changed his position to an ardent defender. Perhaps in order to popularize his candidacy for sainthood, in 1666 James Drought published a biography. The priest was after 1648 in Rome and where it could persuade the relevant authorities to consider the Smotrytsky beatification. Descriptions of supernatural events that took place after the death of Smotrytsky were given by his last confessor. According to his account he was dying to ask you to insert his hand in the coffin of Pope Urban VIII letter informing him of the receipt for the Archbishop of Hierapolis. Uniate monks but forgot about it the first time, and put a letter in the coffin just a few hours after the death of the priest. Then the hand of the deceased had to move and firmly grasp the document. His removal from the hand of the deceased was supposed to be possible only when he stood over the body, Metropolitan of Kiev and demanded the return of the letter. In a later version of the description of the event Kortycki put the information allegedly monks put in the coffin of the letter Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, but this was completely ignored. Kortycki also asserted that before the funeral of a hand holding a letter miraculously renewed, giving the impression of living. Metropolitan Rutski confirmed that the following events actually took place, and even wrote about them for the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith in August 1634. On December 19, 1634 this congregation held a meeting during which it was decided that Smotrycki was murdered, and should be canonized as a martyr. The matter was discussed again in July 1635, and in October of the same year, a representative of the Congregation speaking to Rutsky to ask for a copy of the description posthumous miracle. In 1635 a Basilian monk named Isaiah, who was also a participant in the Smotrytsky's funeral, said the Onoratio Visconti, papal nuncio in Warsaw, that the deceased bishop kept in a coffin two lists - the papal and patriarchal. While the ultimate message of the Congregation stated that Smotrycki finally \"rejected\" letter of Patriarch theophany, doubts in this regard could be one of the reasons why the canonization process Smotryckiego was suspended.\n\nSmotrytsky is best known for his \"Slavonic Grammar with Correct Syntax\" (\"Грамматіки славєнския правилноє Сvнтаґма\", 1619), which codified what is now known as \"Modern Church Slavonic\" or, more specifically, \"Meletian Church Slavonic\". It was the sole handbook for grammar in Belarusian, Russian and Ukrainian lands, and had an enormous impact on the development of these languages. Smotrytsky's work also contributed greatly to the study of Church Slavonic texts throughout Eastern Europe. The 1619 grammar was first reprinted in 1721 and many times over later on.\n\nSmotrytsky's work for Slavic grammar can be compared by its impact with that of Dionysius Thrax for Greek and that of Aelius Donatus and Priscian for Latin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9078910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9078910", "title": "Milewski's typology", "text": "Milewski's typology\n\nMilewski’s typology is a language classification system proposed in the 1960s by the Polish linguist Tadeusz Milewski. In this classification active and tripartite languages were omitted because they were little known at that time.\n\nMilewski proposed a division of languages into 6 groups, based upon consideration of 4 main syntactic relationships; these were:\n\n\nThese criteria are interesting from a typological point of view because in many languages there is no difference between the sentence and the nominal phrase.\n\nMilewski's typology can be employed to analyze languages with case marking but can also be used with those that use a fixed word order or a specific form of incorporation. For simplicity, the table below classifies casual languages in which the nominal attribute is marked with the genitive case.\n\nThe letters a, b, and c represent formal inflective markers specific to each language. For instance, \"a\" always represents the formal marker that signifies the experiencer, called either the \"nominative\" or the \"absolutive\" depending upon whether this morpheme marks the agent of the action (as in nominative–accusative languages) or the patient (as in ergative–absolutive languages).\n\nAs the table shows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49214523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49214523", "title": "Outline of government", "text": "Outline of government\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to government:\n\nGovernment – \n\nGovernment - is a general term which can be used to refer to public bodies organizing the political life of the society. Government can also refer to the collective head of the executive branch of power in a polity.\n\nPublic policies -\nLegislative power -\n\nExecutive power -\n\nJudicial power -\n\nConstitution -\n\nFive characteristics of a state\n\nEvolutionary Theory -\n\nSocial Contract Theory -\n\nDivine Theory -\n\nMeritocracy -\n\nForm a More Perfect Union -\n\nEstablish Justice -\n\nInsure Domestic Tranquility -\n\nProvide for the Common Defense -\n\nPromote the General Welfare -\n\nSecure the Blessings of Liberty -\n\nHistory of government\n\nOrdered government\n\nLimited government\n\nRepresentative government\n\nMagna Carta\n\nPetition of Right\n\nEnglish Bill of Rights\n\nCharter\n\nRoyal Colonies - New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia\nProprietary colonies - Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware\nCharter colonies - Connecticut and Rhode Island\n\nNew England Confederation\n\nAlbany Plan of Union\n\nDelegate\n\nBoycott\n\nRepeal\n\nPopular sovereignty\n\nDeclaration of Independence\n\nArticles of Confederation\n\nRatification\n\nPresiding Officer\n\nFramers of the Constitution -\n\nVirginia Plan -\n\nNew Jersey Plan -\n\nConnecticut Compromise -\n\nThree-Fifths Compromise -\n\nSlave Trade Compromise -\n\nFederalists -\n\nAnti-Federalists -\n\nQuorum -\n\nDemocracy -\n\nDictatorship -\n\nUnitary government -\n\nFederal government -\n\nConfederate government (Confederation) -\n\nPresidential government -\n\nParliamentary government -\n\nPopular sovereignty \nLimited government\nHuman equality\n\nFree enterprise system -\n\nLaw of supply and demand -\n\nMixed economy -\n\nPreamble\n\nArticles\n\nPopular Sovereignty\n\nLimited Government\nSeparation of powers\n\nChecks and balances\nJudicial review\nFederalism\n\nChambers\n\nParliament\nParliamentary procedure\nTypes\n\nLegislator -\n\nCommittee member -\n\nTrustee -\n\nDelegate -\n\nPartisan -\n\nPolitico -\n\nSenator -\n\nMoney\n\nMoney\n"}
{"id": "253655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253655", "title": "Peplum (film genre)", "text": "Peplum (film genre)\n\nThe peplum film (pepla plural), also known as sword-and-sandal, is a genre of largely Italian-made historical or Biblical epics (costume dramas) that dominated the Italian film industry from 1958 to 1965, eventually being replaced in 1965 by Eurospy films and Spaghetti Westerns. They can be immediately differentiated from the competing Hollywood product by their use of dubbing. The pepla attempted to emulate the big-budget Hollywood historical epics of the time, such as \"Spartacus\", \"Samson and Delilah\" and \"The Ten Commandments\".\n\nThe terms \"peplum\" (referring to the tunic-style Greek and Roman garment often worn by characters in the films) and \"sword-and-sandal\" were used in a condescending way by film critics. Later, the terms were embraced by fans of the films, similar to the terms \"spaghetti western\" or \"shoot-'em-ups\". Italian director Vittorio Cottafavi called the genre \"Neo-Mythology\".\n\nWhile Hollywood filmmakers, such as D. W. Griffith with his 1916 \"Intolerance\", peopled their historical epics with dramatic conflicts and realistic protagonists, many of the pepla merely took a real historical or Biblical event and used it as a backdrop for a simple heroic adventure tale, on a comic book level. The pepla are a specific class of Italian adventure or fantasy films that have subjects set in Biblical, medieval or classical antiquity, often with contrived plots based loosely on mythology, legendary Greco-Roman history, or the other contemporary cultures of the time, such as the Egyptians, Assyrians, and Etruscans.\n\nMost pepla featured a superhumanly strong man as the protagonist, such as Hercules, Samson, Goliath, Ursus or Italy's own popular folk hero Maciste. These supermen often rescued captive princesses from tyrannical despots and fought mythological creatures. In the cases where a superhuman protagonist was not involved, the main character would still possess uncanny fighting abilities and a razor sharp wit.\n\nNot all the films were fantasy-based, however. Many featured actual historical personalities such as Julius Caesar, Cleopatra, and Hannibal, although great liberties were taken with the storylines. Gladiators, pirates, knights, Vikings, and slaves rebelling against tyrannical kings were also popular subjects. But, similar to the American serials of the 1940s, the peplum always focuses on the hero's narrow escapes from the most preposterous dangers throughout the course of the film.\n\nA 100 minute documentary on the history of Italy's peplum genre was produced and directed by Antonio Avati in 1977 entitled \"Kolossal: i magnifici Maciste\".\n\nItalian filmmakers led the way in the peplum genre with some of the earliest silent films dealing with the subject, including \"The Sack of Rome\" (1905), \"The Fall of Troy\" (1911) and the sensational silent version of \"Quo Vadis?\" (1913).\n\nThe 1914 Italian silent film \"Cabiria\" was one of the first peplum films to make use of a massively muscled character, Maciste (played by actor Bartolomeo Pagano) who served in this premiere film as the hero's slavishly loyal sidekick. Maciste became the public's favorite character in the film however, and Pagano was called back many times to reprise the role. The Maciste character appeared in at least two dozen Italian silent films from 1914 through 1926, all of which featured a protagonist named Maciste although the films were set in many different time periods and geographical locations. Here is a complete list of the silent Maciste films in chronological order: \n\nThe Italian film industry released several historical films in the early sound era, such as the big-budget \"Scipione l'Africano\" (\"Scipio Africanus: The Defeat of Hannibal\") in 1937. In 1949, the postwar Italian film industry remade \"Fabiola\" (which had been previously filmed twice in the silent era). The film was released in the United Kingdom and in the United States in 1951 in an edited, English-dubbed version.\n\nDuring the 1950s, a number of American historical epics shot in Italy were released. In 1951, MGM producer Sam Zimbalist cleverly used the lower production costs, use of frozen funds and the expertise of the Italian film industry to shoot the large-scale epic \"Quo Vadis\" in Rome. In addition to its fictional account linking the Great Fire of Rome, the Persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire and Emperor Nero, the film - following the novel \"Quo vadis\" by the Polish writer Henryk Sienkiewicz - featured also a mighty protagonist named Ursus (Italian filmmakers later made several pepla in the 1960s exploiting the Ursus character). MGM also planned \"Ben Hur\" to be filmed in Italy as early as 1952.\n\nRiccardo Freda's \"Sins of Rome\" was filmed in 1953 and released by RKO in an edited, English-dubbed version the following year. Unlike \"Quo Vadis\", there were no American actors or production crew. The Anthony Quinn film \"Attila\" (directed by Pietro Francisci in 1954), the Kirk Douglas epic \"Ulysses\" (co-directed by an uncredited Mario Bava in 1954) and \"Helen of Troy\" (directed by Robert Wise with Sergio Leone as an uncredited second unit director in 1955) were the first of the big peplum films of the 1950s. Riccardo Freda directed another peplum, \"Theodora, Slave Empress\" in 1954, starring his wife Gianna Maria Canale. Howard Hawks directed his \"Land of the Pharaohs\" (starring Joan Collins) in Italy and Egypt in 1955. Robert Rossen made his \"Alexander the Great\" in Egypt in 1956, with a music score by famed Italian composer Mario Nascimbene.\n\nTo cash in on the success of the Kirk Douglas film \"Ulysses\", Pietro Francisci planned to make a film about Hercules, but searched unsuccessfully for years for a physcially convincing yet experienced actor. His daughter spotted American bodybuilder Steve Reeves in the American film \"Athena\" and he was hired to play the mighty demigod when the film was made in 1957.\n\nThe genre's instantaneous growth began with the U.S. theatrical release of \"Hercules\" in 1959. American producer Joseph E. Levine acquired the U.S. distribution rights for $120,000, spent $1 million promoting the film and made more than $5 million profit. This spawned the 1959 Steve Reeves sequel \"Hercules Unchained\", the 1959 re-release of Cecil B. DeMille's \"Samson and Delilah\" (1949), and literally dozens of imitations that followed in their wake. Italian filmmakers resurrected their 1920s Maciste character in a brand new 1960s sound film series (1960–1964), followed rapidly by Ursus, Samson, Goliath, Sandokan and various other mighty-muscled heroes. These films all featured similar bodybuilder stars such as Reg Park, Gordon Scott, Mark Forest, Brad Harris, Dan Vadis, and Alan Steel. European audiences tended to prefer an Anglo-American in the lead, so Italian bodybuilders would adopt English pseudonyms for the screen (Sergio Ciani became Alan Steel, Lou Degni became Mark Forest, etc.).\n\nIn the formulaic plots common to many of the films, two women vied for the affection of the bodybuilder hero: the good love interest (a damsel in distress needing rescue), and an evil femme fatale queen who sought to dominate the hero. The films often featured an ambitious ruler who would ascend the throne by murdering whomever stood in his path, and often it was only the muscular hero who could depose him. Most of the films involved an impending clash between two warring populations, one civilized and the other evilly barbaric. Thus many pepla begin with the scene of a peaceful, defenseless village being burned to the ground by a wild barbarian horde. For their musical content, most films contained a well-choreographed belly-dancing sequence or a colorful ballet, meant to underline the pagan decadence of the villains. The contrived plots, poorly overdubbed dialogue, novice acting skills of the bodybuilder leads, and primitive special effects that were often inadequate to depict the mythological creatures on screen all conspire to give these films a certain camp appeal now.\n\nTo be sure, however, many of the films enjoyed widespread popularity among general audiences, and had production values that were typical for popular films of their day. Some films included frequent reuse of the impressive film sets that had been created for \"Ben-Hur\" and \"Cleopatra\". Although many of the bigger budget pepla were released theatrically in the USA, fourteen of them were released directly to Embassy Pictures television in a syndicated TV package called \"The Sons of Hercules\". The movies were made into a series of sorts by splicing on the same opening and closing theme song and newly designed voice-over narration that desperately attempted to link the protagonist of each film to the Hercules mythos, since few American viewers had a familiarity with Italian film heroes such as Maciste or Ursus. These films ran on Saturday afternoons in the 1960s. Often ridiculed for their low budgets and bad English dubbing, several of them have been subjects for the \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" treatment.\n\nA series of 19 Hercules movies were made in Italy in the late '50s and early '60s. The films were all sequels to the successful Steve Reeves peplum \"Hercules\" (1958), and each film was a stand-alone story not connected to the others. The actors who played Hercules in these films were Steve Reeves followed by Gordon Scott, Kirk Morris, Mickey Hargitay, Mark Forest, Alan Steel, Dan Vadis, Brad Harris, Reg Park, Peter Lupus (billed as Rock Stevens) and Mike Lane. In a 1997 interview Reeves said he felt his two Hercules films couldn't be topped by the post-1959 sequels, so he declined to do any more Hercules films.\n\nThe films are listed below by their American release titles, and the titles in parentheses are their original Italian titles with an approximate English translation. Dates shown are the original Italian theatrical release dates, not necessarily the U.S. release dates (which were years later in many cases).\n\n\nA number of English-dubbed Italian films that featured the Hercules name in their titles were never intended to be Hercules films by their Italian creators...\nNone of these films in their original Italian versions involved the Hercules character in any way. Likewise, most of the \"Sons of Hercules\" movies shown on American TV in the 1960s had nothing to do with Hercules in their original Italian incarnations.\n\nThere were a total of 25 Maciste films from the 1960s peplum craze (not counting the two dozen silent Maciste films made in Italy pre-1930). By 1960, seeing how well the two Steve Reeves \"Hercules\" films were doing at the box office, Italian producers decided to revive the 1920s silent film character \"Maciste\" in a new series of color/sound films. Unlike the other Italian peplum protagonists, Maciste found himself in a variety of time periods ranging from the Ice Age to 16th Century Scotland. Maciste was never given an origin, and the source of his mighty powers was never revealed. However, in the first film of the 1960s series, he mentions to another character that the name \"Maciste\" means \"born of the rock\" (almost as if he was a god who would just appear out of the earth itself in times of need). One of the 1920s silent Maciste films was actually entitled \"The Giant from the Dolomite\", hinting that Maciste may be more god than man, which would explain his great strength. <br>\nThe first title listed for each film is the film's original Italian title along with its English translation, while the U.S. release title follows in bold type in parentheses. (Note how many times Maciste's name in the Italian title is altered to an entirely different name in the American title):\n\n\nIn 1973, the Spanish cult film director Jesus Franco directed two low-budget \"Maciste films\" for French producers: \"Maciste contre la Reine des Amazones\" (\"Maciste vs the Queen of the Amazons\") and \"Les exploits érotiques de Maciste dans l'Atlantide\" (\"The Erotic Exploits of Maciste in Atlantis\"). The films had almost identical casts, both starring Val Davis as Maciste, and appear to have been shot back-to-back. The former was distributed in Italy as a \"Karzan\" movie (a cheap Tarzan imitation), while the latter film was released only in France with hardcore inserts as \"Les Gloutonnes\" (\"The Gobblers\"). These two films were totally unrelated to the 1960s Italian Maciste series.\n\nFollowing Buddy Baer's portrayal of Ursus in the classic 1951 film \"Quo Vadis\", Ursus was used as a superhuman Roman-era character who became the protagonist in a series of Italian adventure films made in the early 1960s.\n\nWhen the \"Hercules\" film craze hit in 1959, Italian filmmakers were looking for other muscleman characters similar to Hercules whom they could exploit, resulting in the nine-film Ursus series listed below. Ursus was referred to as a \"Son of Hercules\" in two of the films when they were dubbed in English (in an attempt to cash in on the then-popular \"Hercules\" craze), although in the original Italian films, Ursus had no connection to Hercules whatsoever. In the English-dubbed version of one Ursus film (retitled \"Hercules, Prisoner of Evil\"), Ursus was actually referred to throughout the entire film as \"Hercules\".\n\nThere were a total of nine Italian films that featured Ursus as the main character, listed below as follows: Italian title / English translation of the Italian title (American release title);\n\n\nA character named Samson was featured in a series of five Italian peplum films in the 1960s, no doubt inspired by the 1959 re-release of the epic Victor Mature film \"Samson and Delilah\". The character was similar to the Biblical Samson in the third and fifth films only; in the other three, he just appears to be a very strong man (not related at all to the Biblical figure).\n\nThe titles are listed as follows: Italian title / its English translation (U.S. release title in parentheses);\n\n\nThe name Samson was also inserted into the U.S. titles of six other Italian movies when they were dubbed in English for U.S. distribution, although these films actually featured the adventures of the famed Italian folk hero Maciste.\n\n\"Samson Against the Sheik\" (1962), \"Son of Samson\" (1960), \"Samson and the Slave Queen\" (1963), \"Samson and the Seven Miracles of the World\" (1961), \"Samson vs. the Giant King\" (1964), and \"Samson in King Solomon's Mines\" (1964) were all retitled Maciste movies, because the American distributors did not feel the name Maciste was marketable to U.S. filmgoers.\n\n\"Samson and the Treasure of the Incas\" ( \"Hercules and the Treasure of the Incas\") (1965) sounds like a peplum title, but was actually a spaghetti western.\n\nThe Italians used Goliath as the superhero protagonist in a series of adventure films (pepla) in the early 1960s. He was a man possessed of amazing strength, although he seemed to be a different person in each film. After the classic \"Hercules\" (1958) became a blockbuster sensation in the film industry, a 1959 Steve Reeves film \"Il terrore dei barbari\" (\"Terror of the Barbarians\") was retitled \"Goliath and the Barbarians\" in the USA. The film was so successful at the box office, it inspired Italian filmmakers to do a series of four more films featuring a generic beefcake hero named Goliath, although the films were not related to each other in any way. (The 1960 Italian peplum \"David and Goliath\" starring Orson Welles was not part of this series, since that movie was just a historical retelling of the Biblical story).\n\nThe titles in the Italian \"Goliath\" adventure series were as follows:\n\n\nThe name Goliath was also inserted into the English titles of 3 other Italian pepla that were retitled for U.S. distribution in an attempt to cash in on the Goliath craze, but these films were not originally made as \"Goliath movies\" in Italy.\n\nBoth \"Goliath and the Vampires\" (1961) and \"Goliath and the Sins of Babylon\" (1963) actually featured the famed Italian folk hero Maciste in the original Italian versions, but American distributors didn't feel the name \"Maciste\" meant anything to American audiences.\n\n\"Goliath and the Dragon\" (1960) was originally an Italian Hercules movie called \"The Revenge of Hercules\", but it was retitled to \"Goliath and the Dragon\" in the U.S. since at the time \"Goliath and the Barbarians\" was breaking box-office records, and at the time, the distributors may have believed the name \"Hercules\" was trademarked by distributor Joseph E. Levine.\n\n\"The Sons of Hercules\" was a syndicated television show that aired in the United States in the 1960s. The series repackaged 14 randomly chosen Italian peplum films by unifying them with memorable title and end title theme songs and a standard voice-over intro relating the main hero in each film to Hercules any way they could. In some areas, each film was split into two one-hour episodes, so the 14 films were shown as 28 weekly episodes. None of the films were theatrically released in the USA.\n\nThe films are not listed in chronological order, since they were not really related to each other in any way. The first title listed below for each film was its American broadcast television title, followed by the English translation of the original Italian theatrical title in parentheses:\n\n\n\nSteve Reeves appeared in 14 pepla made in Italy from 1958 to 1964, and most of his films are highly regarded examples of the genre. His pepla are listed below in order of production, not in order of release. The U.S. release titles are shown below, followed by the original Italian title & its translation (in parentheses)\n\n\nThere were many 1950s and 1960s Italian pepla that did not feature a major superhero (such as Hercules, Maciste or Samson), and as such they fall into a sort of miscellaneous category. Many were of the \"Cappa e spada\" (swashbuckler) variety, though they often feature well-known characters such as Ali Baba, Julius Caesar, Ulysses, Cleopatra, The Three Musketeers, Theseus, Perseus, Achilles, Robin Hood, and Sandokan. The first really successful Italian films of that kind were \"Black Eagle\" from 1946, and \"Fabiola\" from 1949.\n\n\nInspired by the success of \"Spartacus\", there were a number of Italian peplums that heavily emphasized the gladiatorial arena in their plots, with it becoming almost a peplum subgenre in itself; One group of supermen known as \"The Ten Gladiators\" appeared in a trilogy, all three films starring Dan Vadis in the lead role.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWith the interest in the Elizabeth Taylor \"Cleopatra\" film shot in Rome, several Italian films sought to ride its wave of publicity. 20th Century Fox bought the rights for two of them to keep them out of release.\n\n\nAfter the peplum gave way to the Spaghetti Western and Eurospy films in 1965, the genre lay dormant for close to 20 years. Then in 1982, the box-office success of Arnold Schwarzenegger's \"Conan the Barbarian\" spurred a second renaissance of sword and sorcery Italian pepla in the five years immediately following. Most of these films had low budgets, focusing more on barbarians and pirates so as to avoid the need for expensive Greco-Roman sets. The filmmakers tried to compensate for their shortcomings with the addition of some graphic gore and nudity. Many of these 1980s entries were helmed by noted Italian horror film directors (Joe D'Amato, Lucio Fulci, Luigi Cozzi, etc.) and many featured actors Lou Ferrigno and Sabrina Siani. Here is a list of the 1980s pepla:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2690589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2690589", "title": "Philosophical interpretation of classical physics", "text": "Philosophical interpretation of classical physics\n\nClassical \"Newtonian\" physics has, formally, been replaced by quantum mechanics on the small scale and relativity on the large scale. Because most humans continue to think in terms of the kind of events we perceive in the human scale of daily life, it became necessary to provide a new philosophical interpretation of classical physics. Classical mechanics worked extremely well within its domain of observation but made inaccurate predictions at very small scale - atomic scale systems - and when objects moved very fast or were very massive. Viewed through the lens of quantum mechanics or relativity, we can now see that classical physics, imported from the world of our everyday experience, includes notions for which there is no actual evidence. For example, one commonly held idea is that there exists one absolute time shared by all observers. Another is the idea that electrons are discrete entities like miniature planets that circle the nucleus in definite orbits.\n\nThe correspondence principle says that classical accounts are approximations to quantum mechanics that are for all practical purposes equivalent to quantum mechanics when dealing with macro-scale events.\n\nVarious problems occur if classical mechanics is used to describe quantum systems, such as the ultraviolet catastrophe in black body radiation, the Gibbs paradox, and the lack of a zero point for entropy.\n\nSince classical physics corresponds more closely to ordinary language than modern physics does, this subject is also a part of the philosophical interpretation of ordinary language, which has other aspects, as well.\n\nIn classical mechanics it is assumed that given properties - speed or mass of a particle; temperature of a gas, etc. - can in principle be measured to any degree of accuracy desired.\n\nStudy of the problem of measurement in quantum mechanics has shown that measurement of any object involves interactions between the measuring apparatus and that object that inevitably affect it in some way; at the scale of particles this effect is necessarily large. On the everyday macroscopic scale the effect can be made small.\n\nFurthermore, the classical idealization of a property simply being \"measured\" ignores the fact that measurement of a property - temperature of a gas by thermometer, say - involves a pre-existing account of the behavior of the measuring device. When effort was devoted to working out the operational definitions involved in precisely determining position and momentum of micro-scale entities, physicists were required perforce to provide such an account for measuring devices to be used at that scale. The key thought experiment in this regard is known as Heisenberg's microscope.\n\nThe problem for the individual is how to properly characterize a part of reality of which one has no direct sense experience. Our inquiries into the quantum domain find most pertinent whatever it is that happens in between the events by means of which we obtain our only information. Our accounts of the quantum domain are based on interactions of macro domain instruments and sense organs with physical events, and those interactions give us some but not all of the information we seek. We then seek to derive further information from series of those experiments in an indirect way. \n\nOne interpretation of this conundrum is given by Werner Heisenberg in his 1958 book, \"Physics and Philosophy,\"p. 144f:\nWe can say that physics is a part of science and as such aims at a description and understanding of nature. Any kind of understanding, scientific or not, depends on our language, on the communication of ideas. Every description of phenomena, of experiments and their results, rests upon language as the only means of communication. The words of this language represent the concepts of daily life, which in the scientific language of physics may be refined to the concepts of classical physics. These concepts are the only tools for an unambiguous communication about events, about the setting up of experiments, and about their results. If therefore the atomic physicist is asked to give a description of what really happens in his experiments, the words \"description\" and \"really\" and \"happens\" can only refer to the concepts of daily life or of classical physics. As soon as the physicist gave up this basis he would lose the means of unambiguous communication and could not continue in his science. Therefore, any statement about what has \"actually happened\" is a statement in terms of the classical concepts and -- because of thermodynamics and of the uncertainty relations -- by its very nature incomplete with respect to the details of the atomic events involved. The demand to \"describe what happens\" in the quantum-theoretical process between two successive observations is a contradiction \"in adjecto,\" since the word \"describe\" refers to the use of the classical concepts, while these concepts cannot be applied in the space between the observations; they can only be applied at the points of observation.\n\nBoth quantum mechanics and special relativity begin their divergence from classical mechanics by insisting on the primacy of observations and a refusal to admit unobservable entities. Thus special relativity rejects the absolute simultaneity assumed by classical mechanics; and quantum mechanics does not permit one to speak of properties of the system (exact position, say) other than those that can be connected to macro scale observations. Position and momentum are not things waiting for us to discover; rather, they are the results that are obtained by performing certain procedures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8113381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8113381", "title": "Pramāṇa-samuccaya", "text": "Pramāṇa-samuccaya\n\nThe Pramāṇa-samuccaya (\"Compendium of Validities\") is a philosophical treatise by Dignāga, an Indian Buddhist logician and epistemologist who lived from c. 480 to c. 540 . The work comprises an outline in the highly elliptical verse format typical of early Indian philosophical texts, and an explanatory auto-commentary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19442735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19442735", "title": "Psychology of reasoning", "text": "Psychology of reasoning\n\nThe psychology of reasoning is the study of how people reason, often broadly defined as the process of drawing conclusions to inform how people solve problems and make decisions. It overlaps with psychology, philosophy, linguistics, cognitive science, artificial intelligence, logic, and probability theory.\n\nPsychological experiments on how humans and other animals reason have been carried out for over 100 years. An enduring question is whether or not people have the capacity to be rational. What does it mean to be rational? Current research in this area addresses various questions about reasoning, rationality, judgments, intelligence, relationships between emotion and reasoning, and development.\n\nHow do people reason about sentences in natural language? Most experimentation on deduction has been carried out on hypothetical thought, in particular, examining how people reason about conditionals, e.g., \"If A then B\". Participants in experiments make the modus ponens inference, given the indicative conditional \"If A then B\", and given the premise \"A\", they conclude \"B\". However, given the indicative conditional and the minor premise for the modus tollens inference, \"not-B\", about half of the participants in experiments conclude \"not-A\" and the remainder concludes that nothing follows.\n\nThe ease with which people make conditional inferences is affected by content, as demonstrated in the well-known selection task developed by Peter Wason. Participants are better able to test a conditional that contains sensible content, e.g., \"if the envelope is sealed then it must have a 50 cent stamp on it\" compared to one that contains symbolic content, e.g.,\" if the letter is a vowel then the number is even\". Background knowledge can also lead to the suppression of even the simple modus ponens inference Participants given the conditional \"if Lisa has an essay to write then she studies late in the library\" and the premise \"Lisa has an essay to write \" make the modus ponens inference 'she studies late in the library', but the inference is suppressed when they are also given a second conditional \"if the library stays open then she studies late in the library\". Interpretations of the suppression effect are controversial \n\nOther investigations of propositional inference examine how people think about disjunctive alternatives, e.g., \"A or else B\", and how they reason about negation, e.g., \"It is not the case that A and B\". Many experiments have been carried out to examine how people make relational inferences, including comparisons, e.g., \"A is better than B\". Such investigations also concern spatial inferences, e.g. \"A is in front of B\" and temporal inferences, e.g. \"A occurs before B\". Other common tasks include categorical syllogisms, used to examine how people reason about quantifiers such as \"All\" or \"Some\", e.g., \"Some of the A are not B\".\n\nThere are several alternative theories of the cognitive processes that human reasoning is based on. One view is that people rely on a mental logic consisting of formal (abstract or syntactic) inference rules similar to those developed by logicians in the propositional calculus. Another view is that people rely on domain-specific or content-sensitive rules of inference. A third view is that people rely on mental models, that is, mental representations that correspond to imagined possibilities. The mental model theory is the subject of the \"mental models website\". A fourth view is that people compute probabilities.\n\nOne controversial theoretical issue is the identification of an appropriate competence model, or a standard against which to compare human reasoning. Initially classical logic was chosen as a competence model. Subsequently, some researchers opted for non-monotonic logic and Bayesian probability. Research on mental models and reasoning has led to the suggestion that people are rational in principle but err in practice. Connectionist approaches towards reasoning have also been proposed.\n\nHow does reasoning develop? Jean Piaget's theory of cognitive development describes a sequence of stages in the development of reasoning from infancy to adulthood. According to the neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development, changes in reasoning with development come from increasing working memory capacity, increasing speed of processing, and enhanced executive functions and control. Increasing self-awareness is also an important factor.\n\nInductive reasoning makes broad generalizations from specific cases or observations. In this process of reasoning, general assertions are made based on past specific pieces of evidence. This kind of reasoning allows the conclusion to be false even if the original statement is true. For example, if one observes a college athlete, one makes predictions and assumptions about other college athletes based on that one observation. Scientists use inductive reasoning to create theories and hypotheses.\n\nIn opposition, deductive reasoning is a basic form of valid reasoning. In this reasoning process a person starts with a known claim or a general belief and from there asks what follows from these foundations or how will these premises influence other beliefs. In other words, deduction starts with a hypothesis and examines the possibilities to reach a conclusion. Deduction helps people understand why their predictions are wrong and indicates that their prior knowledge or beliefs are off track. An example of deduction can be seen in the scientific method when testing hypotheses and theories. Although the conclusion usually corresponds and therefore proves the hypothesis, there are some cases where the conclusion is logical, but the generalization is not. For example, the argument, “All young girls wear skirts. Julie is a young girl. Therefore, Julie wears skirts,” is valid logically, but is not sound because the first premise isn't true.\n\nThe syllogism is a form of deductive reasoning in which two statements reach a logical conclusion. With this reasoning, one statement could be “Every A is B” and another could be “This C is A”. Those two statements could then lead to the conclusion that “This C is B”. These types of syllogisms are used to test deductive reasoning to ensure there is a valid hypothesis. A Syllogistic Reasoning Task was created from a study performed by Morsanyi, Kinga, Handley, and Simon that examined the intuitive contributions to reasoning. They used this test to assess why “syllogistic reasoning performance is based on an interplay between a conscious and effortful evaluation of logicality and an intuitive appreciation of the believability of the conclusions”.\n\nAnother form of reasoning is called abductive reasoning. This type is based on creating and testing hypotheses using the best information available. Abductive reasoning produces the kind of daily decision-making that works best with the information present, which often is incomplete. This could involve making educated guesses from observed unexplainable phenomena. This type of reasoning can be seen in the world when doctors make decisions about diagnoses from a set of results or when jurors use the relevant evidence to make decisions about a case.\n\nJudgment and reasoning involve thinking through the options, making a judgment or conclusion and finally making a decision. Making judgments involves heuristics, or efficient strategies that usually lead you to the right answers. The most common heuristics used are attribute substitution, the availability heuristic, the representativeness heuristic and the anchoring heuristic – these all aid in quick reasoning and work in most situations. Heuristics allow for errors, a price paid to gain efficiency.\nOther errors in judgment, therefore affecting reasoning, include errors in judgment about covariation – a relationship between two variables such that the presence and magnitude of one can predict the presence and magnitude of the other. One cause of covariation is confirmation bias, or the tendency to be more responsive to evidence that confirms your beliefs. But assessing covariation can be pulled off track by neglecting base-rate information – how frequently something occurs in general. However people often ignore base rates and tend to use other information presented.\nThere are more sophisticated judgment strategies that result in fewer errors. People often reason based on availability but sometimes they look for other, more accurate, information to make judgments. This suggests there are two ways of thinking, known as the Dual-Process Model. The first, System I, is fast, automatic and uses heuristics – more of intuition. The second, System II, is slower, effortful and more likely to be correct – more reasoning.\n\n\nDecision making is often influenced by the emotion of regret and the element of risk. People are strongly motivated by regret and we can see this when they select options they tend to select the option that they will regret the least trying to minimize the amount of regret we will have. Many decisions also include a large element of risk, and in these cases people tend to ask themselves what the level of risk is. They ask themselves how much dread they would experience when thinking about a nuclear accident, and then use that dread as an indicator of risk. We ask “how does this make me feel?” rather than “how risky is this?”\n\nAntonio Damasio suggests that somatic markers, certain memories that can cause a strong bodily reaction, act as a way to guide decision making as well. For example, when you are remembering a scary movie and once again become tense and your palms might begin to sweat. Damasio argues that when making a decision we rely on our “gut feelings” to assess various options, and this makes us decide to go with a decision that is more positive and stay away from those that are negative. He also argues that the orbitofrontal cortex - located at the base of the frontal lobe, just above the eyes - is crucial in your use of somatic markers, because it is the part in the brain that allows you to interpret emotion.\n\nAnother note to make is that when emotion shapes decisions, the influence is usually based on predictions of the future. When people ask themselves how they would react, they are making inferences about the future. Researchers suggest affective forecasting, the ability to predict your own emotions, is poor because people tend to overestimate how much they will regret their errors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47751779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751779", "title": "Ramadan Roundup", "text": "Ramadan Roundup\n\nRamadan Roundup is a British web series by Ibrahim Rahman.\n\nThe series shows Rahman sharing his own experiences of Ramadan, the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. He explores the concept of fasting and discusses various topics including family, education, charity and food. Rahman also raises awareness of the Cambridge Mosque Project, an ongoing initiative to build the city's first purpose-built mosque and Europe's first eco-mosque. The series has been uploaded on Rahman's YouTube channel.\n\nIn May 2015, \"Ramadan Roundup 4\" was nominated for the Limelight Film Awards – the largest set of independent awards for short film in the industry. It was shortlisted alongside three other entries under the Freefall category. Rahman was at Cambridge 105 for a live radio interview with Julian Clover on 105 Drive to talk about \"Ramadan Roundup 4\"‘s award nomination. In June 2015, Rahman was at Islam Channel to make a live TV guest appearance on \"Living the Life\", a contemporary lifestyle magazine talk show. He talked about the series and was joined by fellow cast member Raza Amode. The day before the Limelight Film Awards 2015 took place, Rahman was at Cambridge 105 for a live radio interview with Phil Rowe on the Sunday Breakfast show, where they talked about the series and \"Ramadan Roundup 4\"′s award nomination.\n\n"}
{"id": "32450729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32450729", "title": "Roger de Piles' artists from Lombardy", "text": "Roger de Piles' artists from Lombardy\n\nRoger de Piles's L'Abrégé de la vie des peintres...avec un traité du peintre parfait ( \"The Art of Painting and the Lives of the Painters\"), was a major art biography of painters. It was written by the French spy Roger de Piles. In 1692, during the War of the League of Augsburg, he was arrested in the Hague carrying a false passport and imprisoned for the next five years, where he wote his \"L'Abrégé\" in 7 parts; 1) Sketch of the perfect painter, 2) Greek painters; 3) Painters from Rome & Florence; 4) Painters from Venice; 5) Painters from Lombardy; 6) Painters from Germany and the Low Countries; 7) Painters from France and ending with his famous \"Balance of painters\". The book was finally published in 1699 following his appointment as Conseiller Honoraire to the Académie de peinture et de sculpture in Paris. \n\nPart 5, Painters from Lombardy, includes in order of appearance in the text, the following list of artists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47393620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47393620", "title": "Romance Studies journal", "text": "Romance Studies journal\n\nRomance Studies is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the study of the Romance literatures and cultures. It is published in English, French, Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese by Maney Publishing. It was established in 1982 by Valerie Minogue and Brian Nelson.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by Annual Bibliography of English Language and Literature, Arts and Humanities Citation Index, British Humanities Index, Current Contents/Arts & Humanities, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, MLA International Bibliography, and Scopus.\n\nThe editors-in-chief are Lloyd Hughes Davies (Swansea University, 2007–present) and Gayle Zachmann (University of Florida, 2016-present). Past editors have been Elizabeth Emery (Montclair State University, 2003-2016), Susan Harrow (Bristol University, 1999–2008), Derek Gagen (1999–2007), Valerie Minogue (1982-2004), and Brian Nelson (1982–1986).\n"}
{"id": "1967166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967166", "title": "Sacred Books of the East", "text": "Sacred Books of the East\n\nThe Sacred Books of the East is a monumental 50-volume set of English translations of Asian religious writings, edited by Max Müller and published by the Oxford University Press between 1879 and 1910. It incorporates the essential sacred texts of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, Zoroastrianism, Jainism, and Islam.\n\nAll of the books are in the public domain in the United States, and most or all are in the public domain in many other countries. Electronic versions of all fifty volumes are widely available online.\n\n"}
{"id": "3565806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3565806", "title": "Secretum Philosophorum", "text": "Secretum Philosophorum\n\nThe \"Secretum philosophorum\" was a popular Latin text originating in England c.1300–1350.\nOstensibly a treatise on the Seven Liberal Arts, it merely uses them as a framework in which to describe and demystify practical tricks, ‘tricks of the trade’ and applied science. \n\nPrologue (\"Iste liber quem per manibus habemus vocatur Secretum Philosophorum.\")\n\nBook I is nominally on ‘Grammar’ which ‘teaches us to write correctly’ (\"Grammatica docet recte scribere et recte loqui\"). Explaining that no-one can write correctly without the proper instruments, the subsequent text consists of technical recipes for the materials required ‘for correct writing’, plus some recipes for concealing meanings by the use of invisible ink and ciphers. Book I is thus in fact an . Book I thus includes recipes for pigments, tempering, adhesives, varnish, writing tablets, artificial pumice and invisible ink, and for writing on metal by etching; many of these technical recipes are unique, rare, variant or unusually early witnesses to practices, or clarify obscure recipes in other treatises; the instructions appear to be for amateur use. Book I then ends with homilies on ‘correct speaking’ (discretion and the dangers of lying), taken from the pseudo-Aristotle \"Secretum secretorum\", with a note on ‘weasel words’ for concealing meaning.\n\nBook II, ‘Rhetoric’ ‘teaches ornate speech’ (\"Rethorica docet ornate loqui\"). It collects riddles.\n\nBook III, ‘Dialectic’ ‘teaches to discern between true and false’ (\"Dialetica docet discernere verum a falso et ab apparenti vero\"). It collects various tricks for deceiving the five senses, with mirrors and conjuring tricks.\n\nBook IV, ‘Arithmetic’ ‘teaches numbers per se’ (\"Arismetrica docet de numero per se\"). It rejoices in the multiplication of chains of immense numbers.\n\nPart V, ‘Music’ ‘teaches the numbers of sound’ (\"Musica docet de numero sonoro\"). It describes the monochord, and a recipe for gut strings.\n\nBook VI, ‘Geometry’ ‘teaches magnitudes, i.e. to measure’ (\"Geometria docet de magnitudinibus id est de mensuris quantitatum\"). It gives practical tricks for measuring, especially buildings.\n\nBook VII, ‘Astronomy’ ‘teaches movements of the heavens and their effects on men’ (\"Astronomia docet de magnitudine mobili hoc est de motibus firmamenti et planetarum et eorum effectibus\"). It is principally astrology, but includes a very early illustrated treatise on hydraulics.\n\nNearly 30 manuscripts of the \"Secretum philosophorum\" survive, making it something of a medieval 'bestseller', and Lynn Thorndike considered the \"Secretum philosophorum\" to have formed part of the general intellectual furniture of most even partially well-read individuals, and urged its publication. Nevertheless, as yet no complete edition or translation has been published.\n\nBook I: An edition and translation of the recipes for scribes and illuminators, together with a technical commentary, has been published by Clarke (2009), which see for a list of surviving manuscripts.\n\nBook II: Some of the riddles are edited (with suggested solutions) by Galloway (1995).\n\nBook III: An edition, English translation, and commentary has been published by Goulding (2006).\n\nBook V: The recipe for gut strings has been published by (1944-5).\n"}
{"id": "33287311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33287311", "title": "Siku Quanshu Zongmu Tiyao", "text": "Siku Quanshu Zongmu Tiyao\n\nThe Siku Quanshu Zongmu Tiyao (\"Annotated Catalog of the Complete Imperial Library\") is an annotated catalog of the thousands of works that were considered for inclusion in the \"Siku Quanshu\". Work for the 200-chapter catalog began in 1773 and was completed in 1798. The Siku Zongmu, as it is also known, is the largest pre-modern Chinese book catalog. It contains bibliographic notices on all 3,461 works that were included in the \"Siku Quanshu\", as well as shorter notes on 6,793 works that were not included in the imperial library but listed only by title (\"cunmu\" 存目). Thousands of books are omitted from the catalog, including the almost 3,000 works that were destroyed by the Qing because they were considered to be anti-Manchu. The notices themselves were written by many hands, but the final drafts were edited by chief editor Ji Yun. The content of the \"Annotated Catalog\" reflects the strength of Han learning in Qing scholarly circles.\n\n"}
{"id": "31025901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31025901", "title": "Stranger King", "text": "Stranger King\n\nThe Stranger King theory offers a framework to understand global colonialism. It seeks to explain the apparent ease whereby many indigenous peoples subjugated themselves to an alien colonial power and places state formation by colonial powers within the continuum of earlier, similar but indigenous processes.\n\nIt highlights the imposition of colonialism not as the result of the breaking of the spirit of local communities by brute force, or as reflecting an ignorant peasantry's acquiescence in the lies of its self-interested leaders, but as a people's rational and productive acceptance of an opportunity offered.\n\nThe theory was developed by Marshall Sahlins in the Pacific region and is described by David Henley using the North Sulawesi region in Indonesia as his prime case study. The Stranger King theory suggests similarities and divergences between pre-colonial and colonial processes of state-formation enabling to build with insight on the historiography of the colonial transition in the Asia-Pacific part of the world.\n\nThe Stranger King theory argues that many indigenous peoples accepted the imposition of foreign colonial influence, i.e. the Stranger King, as a means of conflict resolution. In doing so, the Stranger King theory challenges binary oppositions of ‘tradition versus modernity’ and ‘nationalism versus imperialism’ paradigms and it places state formation by colonial powers within the continuum of earlier, similar but indigenous processes. The theory particularly builds on the English seventeenth-century political philosopher Thomas Hobbes' depiction of traditional indigenous societies existing in a state of 'Warre', envy, and conflict.\nThe theory was developed by the anthropologist Marshall Sahlins in his analysis of Pacific communities, such as Fiji. He argued that indigenous societies in a state of ‘Warre’ would tend to welcome the arrival of an impartial and strong Stranger King capable of resolving conflict, since his position outside and above the community would give him a unique authority. Consistent with this theory, scholars such as Jim Fox and Leonard Andaya have emphasized parallels between (east) Indonesia and the Pacific world, while David Henley has applied the Stranger King concept on North Sulawesi.\n\nThe Dutch East India Company and before them the Spanish provided a Stranger King solution to the central political dilemma of northern Sulawesi's fractious and litigious indigenous communities. Old Dutch narratives often depict indigenous e.g. Minahasa stakeholders as grateful for intervention when their own political institutions were incapable of providing the security and stability necessary for the pursuit of prosperity. These historic accounts validate the Stranger King concept however are obviously controversial due to their source and have always been easily dismissed as colonial propaganda. Henley's study however provides proof (Chapter XI, 'Patterns and Parallels'), it is not just European sources that suggest recurring uncertainty and conflict within indigenous societies and the indigenous societies' strategy to embosom a Stranger King to break the status quo. Henley in fact presents abundant indigenous (e.g. Bugis and Makasarese) chronicles and accounts collected by anthropologists that explain, and legitimize, the process of pre-colonial and later colonial state formation in similar terms, and not just in the Minahassa or Southeast Asia, but worldwide.\n\nThe \"Stranger King\" theory argues against the theory that the centuries long colonisation process was a non-stop process of indigenous resistance against aggressive military occupation. Notwithstanding the fact that the Stranger King's merchants, military, civil servants and missionaries had their own motives and agenda. The colonists achieved authority not just on the basis of military power, but also through political alliances, diplomatic collaboration\nand by providing a relatively impartial mechanism for arbitration. Colonial courts, rather than solely being instruments of oppression, also provided indigenous people with an access to justice, less subject to local bribery and patronage.\nWithout minimizing the arrogance or self-interest of colonial stakeholders Henley states:\n\n\"We will not understand the nature of those societies better if, whether out of embarrassment, disbelief, or lack of interest, we choose to ignore either the ease with which they were often brought under colonial control, or the evidence that 'Stranger-Kings' were perceived as fulfilling useful functions among them.\" David Henley in \"Jealousy and Justice\" (p. 89)\n\nIn her thesis Schiller accepts the Stranger King concept as a political means to channel factions in Southeast Asian political entities in early modern times and applies it to the political situation in the Kingdom of Kandy in the eighteenth century. She argues the outsider status was essential for a Kandyan king to maintain the balance of power in the small Kingdom, and sheds a light on the political process that led to the transfer of power over the Kingdom to the British in 1815. Moreover, she argues that the Stranger King strategy applies to both European and Asian foreign entities.\n\nWithin three years the nobles had come to realize that they had lost too much power under the British regime, and they intended once more to install a South Indian Stranger King named Dore Swami. Their 1818 rebellion, however, was crushed by the British and led to even tighter control over the Kandyan provinces and a sharp curtailment of the Kandyan nobles’ autonomy.\n\nThe Stranger King theory is used as an analytical tool to understand and re-construct the history of interaction between Europeans and Asians in Southeast Asia and proposes alternative frameworks of understanding colonialism. In 2007 a panel called \"Re-thinking colonialism in Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean, 18TH to 19TH Century\" chaired by the International Convention of Asia Scholars (ICAS) the concept was employed to gain insight into the dynamism of the role indigenous peoples had during the process of colonialisation and the complexity of the relationship between coloniser and colonised.\n\nHistorical and social science are developing a new alternative discourse, where not only the old nationalistic Euro-centric scholars, but also the later Asian-centric academics and nationalistic revisionists, look at history from the perspective of mutual heritage. \n\"Southeast Asia has come within the fold of a single world civilization with a single universal history and all that is meant by Asian-centric history is a history in which the Asian, as a host in his house, should stand in the foreground…\" (Smail 1961: 76, 78).\n\n"}
{"id": "41679154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41679154", "title": "Svein Mønnesland", "text": "Svein Mønnesland\n\nSvein Karl Mønnesland (born 26 October 1943) is a Norwegian Slavist.\n\nHe was born in Skien. Since 1978 he teaches as a professor of Slavic languages at the University of Oslo. He is considered an expert in Serbo-Croatian (Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian), and has written numerous books and articles on Serbo-Croatian, Slavic linguistics, literature and cultural history. He has held a variety of positions, including that of the Nordic representative of the International Committee for Eastern Europe Research and on the Board of the Institute for Comparative Cultural Research. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters and the Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42285511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42285511", "title": "Territories of the United States on stamps", "text": "Territories of the United States on stamps\n\nTerritories of the United States on stamps discusses commemorative postal issues devoted to lands that have been ceded to the nation or purchased by treaty in conjunction with both war and peace. Thirteen states have been created from colonial territories, two from independent republics, four from previous states in the Union, and an additional thirty-one from United States territories.\n\nMany aspects of acquisition, settlement and exploration have been celebrated on postage stamps. These are represented below in issues that appeared prior to 1978 (the images of subsequent stamps remain under copyright by the United States Postal Service and may not be reproduced).\n\nFrom the territory ceded by Great Britain in the Treaty of Paris 1783, five states were to emerge from the Northwest Territory, two from the Southwest Territory. States under the Articles of Confederation ceded their claims to western lands, allowing Congress to administer territories until statehood; the practice was extended under the Constitution. From the Northwest Territory came Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin. From The Southwest Territory came Mississippi and Alabama.\n\nA 3-cent stamp was issued on July 13, 1937, to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the Northwest Territory as defined by the Ordinance of 1787. The Territory consisted of lands north of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River ceded by eastern states. The Ordinance established the Territory, banned slavery, and specified that land must be purchased from the Indians and offered for sale by the United States. It also made provision for temporary and permanent governments and eventual statehood of included regions based on population. The stamp shows a map of the Territory which is flanked by Manasseh Cutler who drafted the ordinance, and Rufus Putnam, superintendent of territorial settlement. The 150th anniversary of establishment of the Mississippi Territory was celebrated by a 3-cent stamp on April 7, 1948. The vignette shows an outline map of the region of today's Mississippi and Alabama. The present Mississippi is shown in a darker tone. The map is divided into three sections with dates 1798, 1804, and 1812, showing the growth of the Territory. Over the map is the original seal of the Territory on which the second double \"s\" of Mississippi is written as a single \"s.\" The portrait is of Winthrop Sargent, first governor of Mississippi Territory.\n\nThe first expansion beyond Treaty of Paris borders occurred with the Louisiana Purchase from France in 1803 under President Thomas Jefferson, known as the architect of the Louisiana Purchase. His portrait is featured on the second stamp of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition issue. \nThis issue of 1904 also featured a 10-cent stamp with an outline of the Louisiana Purchase territory superimposed over a political map of the United States. The Louisiana Purchase sesquicentennial 1953 featured James Monroe, Robert R. Livingston and François Barbé-Marbois, \"signing the Louisiana Transfer, Paris 1803\". \nA map of the 1822 Florida Territory was pictured on the statehood commemoration from its original state seal on its 100th anniversary by a 3-cent stamp on March 3, 1945. The gates of St. Augustine are pictured on the left and the State Capitol in Tallahassee on the right. \nTexas was annexed in 1845 by Republic of Texas petition to the United States under the presidency of James K. Polk. The 100th anniversary of Texas statehood was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp on December 29, 1945. The Republic of Texas was established in 1836 in the aftermath of a rebellion against Mexican authority. Texas annexation to the U.S. was resisted by Northerners opposed to the expansion of slavery. But during the Polk Administration, Texas was annexed as a slave state. This led directly to the Mexican–American War as Mexico moved to protect its territorial claims from American expansion. \nThe Mexican–American war begun under President James Polk had three distinct operational phases. The Kearny Expeditions through Mexican territory to reach the Pacific, the invasion of Mexico from the north under Zachary Taylor, and the invasion of Mexico from Vera Cruz under Winfield Scott to capture Mexico City. A 3-cent stamp, \"Kearny Expedition\" was issued October 16, 1946, to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Col. Stephen Watts Kearny expedition in New Mexico during the MexicanAmerican War. In Santa Fe he established American authority with himself as military governor. He commanded several expeditions through western territories, and in California he was engaged in several battles and was again military governor. \nThe 2-cent Army stamp of January 15, 1937, shows Andrew Jackson (left) and Winfield Scott a hero of the Mexican War, leading a campaign from Vera Cruz to Mexico City. Following the Peace Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, the Mexican Cession turned over to the U.S. territory stretching west to the Pacific Ocean. \n\nThe Oregon Territory dispute was settled by the Oregon Treaty between the U.S. and Great Britain in 1846 under President Polk. The Oregon Territory was commemorated on its 100th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on July 14, 1936. It comprised the present states of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and parts of Montana and Wyoming. The stamp features a map of the Territory, including a trace of the Oregon Trail, flanked by a Native American scene and a covered wagon train. A 3-cent commemorative of the 100th anniversary of the Gadsden Purchase issued December 30, 1953. The U.S. bought the Gadsden Purchase (1854) from Mexico. It amounted to 29,670 square miles which later became parts of Arizona and New Mexico. With the Gadsden Purchase, the contiguous territory which would become the \"lower forty-eight\" contiguous states of the United States was complete. \nThe Alaska–Yukon–Pacific Exposition commemorated the nation's northwest territory on the 10th anniversary of the 1897 Klondike Gold rush and the 40th anniversary of the 1867 Alaska Purchase. Delayed from 1907 to 1909 to avoid competing with the Jamestown Exposition. \nSecretary of State William H. Seward is shown. He negotiated the $8 million purchase of Alaska from Russia. The popular press in 1867 referred to the purchase as \"Seward's Folly,\" but by 1909 the importance of this acquisition was recognized.\n\nThe U.S. Postal Department issued four 3-cent stamps commemorating Insular Territories: Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands over the three months of October to December 1937. The first was to honor the Territory of Hawaii acquired in 1898. It showed the statue of King Kamehameha I, unifier of the Hawaiian Islands, at the Iolani Palace in Honolulu. The second honored Alaska which was purchased in 1867. The stamp pictured snow-covered Mount McKinley with a farm and a village to symbolize modern development in the territory. Alaska and Hawaii territories were admitted as states in 1959.\nThe third stamp honored Puerto Rico featuring 'La Fortaleza', the Spanish Governor's Palace. Puerto Rico was ceded by Spain in an 1898 treaty ending the Spanish American War. Though some thought the stamp was limited to Puerto Rico, it was valid throughout the U.S. and its territories. The final stamp was in honor of the U. S. Virgin Islands, which was purchased from Denmark in 1917. The stamp displays a view of Charlotte Amalie, capital city of the territory.\n\nIn the \"Flags of our nation series\" 2008–2012, five territorial flags were featured. The 42-cent denominations were the American Samoa Flag showing island peaks and trees, issued June 14, 2008, and the Guam Flag was illustrated with fish and tropicbird, issued September 2, 2008. Forever stamps included Northern Marianas Flag picturing a palm tree issued 2011, Puerto Rico Flag illustrated by a bird issued 2011, and Virgin Islands Flag showing a sailfish issued 2012. Images of each flag can be seen at Arago online, National Postal Museum at the Smithsonian Institution on the following links: American Samoa Flag, Guam Flag, Northern Marianas Flag stamp, Puerto Rico Flag, U.S. Virgin Islands Flag.\n\nThe U.S. Postal Department also used general issue stamps with the territorial name overprinted, such as PUERTO RICO, CUBA, GUAM, PHILIPPINES or CANAL ZONE. Cuba was granted independence, Canal Zone returned to Panama. \nAlternatively, the U.S. issued a 1932 'United States of America' stamp for 18 centavos in the Philippines, 1930 stamps for use in Guam only designated 'Guam Guard Mail, or 1952 'Ryukyus' stamp for 100 yen in Okinawa. The Philippines was granted independence, the Ryukyus were returned to Japan. \nPanama Canal has been featured on several U. S. commemorative stamps, as well as on Panama's own postage. The territory was returned to Panama.\n\nThe Panama Canal is represented by the Pedro Miguel Locks in the Panama–Pacific Exposition issue. An estimated 500 million of these 2-cent stamps were printed and issued to the public in a first release in 1913 with perforations 12, and a second in 1914 in perforations 10.\n\nThe Panama Canal opening was commemorated on its 25th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp issued on August 15, 1939. The stamp shows a steamship passing through the Gaillard Cut, President Theodore Roosevelt on the left promoted the canal and General George W. Goethals on the right was chief engineer and first governor of the Panama Zone.\n\nEast of the Mississippi River.\nFounding of the Jamestown Settlement by the Virginia Company was commemorated on the 300th anniversary by 2-cent stamp in late 1907. It was the first permanent British colony in America following the 1587 failure of the Roanoke NC settlement.\n\nThe founding of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, commemorated on its 300th anniversary in 1930, was the culmination of a process begun ten years earlier with the signing of the Mayflower Compact: an exercise in representative democracy that stands as the first major political event of American history.\n\nThe 2-cent \"Walloons landing at Fort Orange\" New Netherland was issued on May 1, 1924, to commemorated the 300th anniversary of settlement in New York. Walloons from the south of Belgium had been persecuted for their Protestant beliefs.\n\nPilgrims landing and settlement at Plymouth, Massachusetts was commemorated with a 6-cent stamp marking on the 350th anniversary, November 21, 1970.\n\nWilliam Penn was commemorated with a 3-cent stamp issued October 24, 1932 on the 250th anniversary of Penn's 1682 landing in the New World. He founded of the colony of Pennsylvania.\n\nJames Oglethorpe was honored on a 3-cent stamp on February 12, 1933. It was the 200th anniversary of his landing at Savannah. Oglethorpe established the British settlement which led to the creation of the colony of Georgia.\n\nRoger Williams led a group of followers to Providence, Rhode Island. The settlement was commemorated with a 3-cent stamp on the 300th anniversary, May 4, 1936. The statue depicted stands near the State House. The state seal of Rhode Island is at lower left.\n\nThe Connecticut Charter of 1662's 300th anniversary was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp on April 26, 1935. The charter was granted by Charles II and hidden from the agents of James II under this tree considered sacred by the Indians of the area.\n\nNew York City founding was celebrated on the 300th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on November 20, 1953. The foreground design is of New Amsterdam, with a Dutch ship at anchorage, the background shows the New York City skyline.\n\nNew Sweden colony of Swedes and Finns near Wilmington, Delaware, was commemorated on the 300th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp issued June 27, 1938. Sweden an expansionist power in the 17th century included Finland and much of Scandinavia.\nThe settlement of Annapolis, Maryland was commemorated with a 3-cent stamp issued March 23, 1949 on its 300th anniversary. It shows a map of the Annapolis area showing the water route from the Chesapeake Bay to the Severn River with the masted ship and long boat carrying Puritans ashore to the original settlement and natural resources.\n\nThe Province of Carolina and its Carolina Charter reaching from Virginia on the north to Florida on the south coast to coast was commemorated on its 300th anniversary on a 5-cent stamp issued April 6, 1963. The Charter linked the colonies to the human rights of the Magna Carta.\n\nCharlestown (Charleston) South Carolina settlement was commemorated on its 300th anniversary with a 6-cent stamp, on September 12, 1970. The city was named after King Charles II of England, as the first colonial city in South Carolina.\n\nVermont celebrated its 1777 independence as the Vermont Republic with a 2-cent stamp on August 3, 1927. Not one of the original thirteen states, it became the fourteenth. The vignette depicts a Green Mountain Boy from the Battle of Bennington dressed in buckskin with a rifle.\n\nNew Hampshire's founding was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp issued on June 21, 1955, celebrating the 150th anniversary of European discovery of \"The Old Man of the Mountains\" rock formation. The landmark setting is taken from Franconia Notch, NH, with the state motto, \"Live Free or Die\" below.\n\nKentucky's first settlement 200th anniversary was commemorated with a 10-cent stamp on June 15, 1974. Fort Harrod was the first permanent settlement founded by James Harrod. The scene depicts two settler's wagons approaching the fort.\n\nSettlement of the Northwest Territory under the Ordinance of 1787 was celebrated on its 150th anniversary by a 3-cent stamp on July 15, 1938. The first permanent place was Marietta, Ohio. The Territory included Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, and part of Minnesota. The stamp features \"March Westward of the Nation', which stands in Marietta.\n\nThe 3-cent Indiana Territory sesquicentennial commemorative postage stamp was issued on July 4, 1950. It features a portrait of William Henry Harrison, the first governor of Indiana Territory and later the 9th President of the US. Indiana's first Capitol building is pictured to the right.\n\nThe San Agustín settlement was commemorated with a 5-cent stamp on the 400th anniversary issued August 28, 1965. It was the first continuous permanent European settlement in the new world. The stamp illustrates a Spanish explorer with Spain's royal banner in the background.\n\nWest of the Mississippi River. \nAntebellum United States saw further organization of territories.\n\nKansas Territory was commemorated on its 100th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on May 31, 1954. The foreground depicts a field of wheat with a set of farm buildings. A wagon train of pioneers in light silhouette looms above. The stamp was issued in sheets of fifty, with 110,000,000 stamps authorized.\n\nNebraska Territory was commemorated on its 100th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp issued on May 7, 1954. The stamp is illustrated by \"The Sower,\" a statue atop the Nebraska Capitol. Mitchell Pass is shown with Scotts Bluff dominating the right side.\n\nIowa Territory was commemorated on August 24, 1938, with a 3-cent stamp. It came from earlier parts of the Missouri, Michigan, and Wisconsin territories. The Iowa Territory included later Iowa, parts of Minnesota, and the Dakotas. Iowa achieved statehood in 1846. The Old Capitol in Iowa City, the territorial capital is shown. \n\nFort Snelling, Minnesota was commemorated on its 150th anniversary with a 6-cent stamp on October 17, 1970. The fort was instrumental in opening the Northwest. \nThe emigration of Swedish pioneers to the American Midwest including the Wisconsin Territory was commemorated on the 100th anniversary by a 5-cent stamp on June 4, 1948. A Swedish pioneer is pictured with a covered wagon moving westward, framed by twelve stars, which represent the twelve midwestern states settled by Swedes, importantly Minnesota and Wisconsin.\n\nNebraska Territory settlement was expedited by the construction of Fort Kearny, Nebraska. Its 100th birthday commemoration was issued on September 22, 1948. The vignette shows Fort Kearny, with a pioneer group sculpture pictured above from the state's Capitol.\n\nThe 6-cent Cherokee Strip, Oklahoma Territory, commemorative stamp was issued on October 15, 1968, on the 75th anniversary of the dramatic land rush into the northern part of the state. More than 100,000 homesteaders participated on run from the Kansas border on September 16, 1893. Forty thousand homesteads of 160 acres awaited successful claimants.\n\nThe centennial of Oklahoma Territory settlement by Native Americans of the Five Civilized Tribes was commemorated with a stamp issued on October 13, 1948, showing reproductions of the Five Great Seals of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma. Native Americans of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma - Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Muscogee and Seminole - celebrated the centennial of their forced move of the Trail of Tears, an ordeal lasting from 1838 to 1848. The Centennial and stamp were meant to honor \"their remarkable progress and achievements.\" From 1848 to 1948, the members of the five tribes in the Union of the Five Tribes made a 'March of Progress' in arts, letters, government and professional fields that contributed to the attainment of Statehood. Oklahoma was the home of almost one-half of the entire Indian population of the nation.\n\nMinnesota Territory was commemorated on its 100th annivsary with a 3-cent stamp on March 3, 1949. The vignette features a westward-bound pioneer and a Red River ox cart. The Red River ox cart was a two-wheeled cart used by fur traders and pioneers, made entirely of wood was often constructed with buffalo sinew due to nail shortages. The Red River Ox Cart Trail extended from fur trading posts at St. Joseph in the Red River Valley to St. Paul, Minnesota.\n\nThe Oregon Territory stamp was issued August 14, 1948, on the Oregon Territory Centennial. The vignette shows a wagon on the Oregon Trail. Pictured is John McLoughlin, one of the most influential figures of the Pacific Northwest's fur trade and settlement periods, the 'Father of Oregon.' Also shown is Jason Lee who is credited with prominent leadership in a provisional government in the Oregon Country.\n\nFollowing U.S. acquisition of the Utah Territory in the Mexican–American War, Mormons led by Brigham Young began settlement with his famous remark, \"This is the place.\" The stamp shows settlers entering the valley of Great Salt Lake.\n\nWashington Territory is commemorated on a 3-cent stamp issued on March 2, 1953. The stamp shows an early pioneer family overlooking a territorial scene including an expanse of water with mountain ranges rising in the distance. A centennial seal pictures a covered wagon drawn by oxen with a Native American seated in the foreground.\n\nThe Spanish expedition of discovery of San Francisco Bay was depicted on the fourth and final denomination of the Panama-Pacific Exposition Issue, produced with both gauge 12 perforations (1913) and gauge 10 perforations (1915). The 10-cent stamp paid the domestic registered mail fee, and was commonly used to meet large weight and foreign destination rates. About 17 million were printed.\n\nSan Diego settlement was commemorated with a 6-cent stamp on its 200th anniversary, July 16, 1969. Governor Gaspar de Portola, accompanied by Father Junipero Serra, began colonization. The vignette shows the belfry of the mission at Carmel.\n\nAlta California first civil settlement in 1777 was commemorated on the 200th anniversary in 1977. San Jose was California's first civic settlement founded by Mexican colonists naming the community, \"El Pueblo de San Jose de Guadalupe\". The town supported the military with agricultural production. The native Olhone culture was disrupted by disease, missionaries and farming.\n\nThe California Territory population exploded with the California Gold Rush. A 3-cent stamp issued on January 24, 1948, commemorated the centennial of the discovery of gold in California. The stamp pictures Sutter's Mill where the discovery started \"the rush of Argonauts\". Although only a few made large fortunes, thousands who came stayed and contributed to California's rapid development as a territory. \nThe first permanent white settlement of Nevada was commemorated on its 100th anniversary on a 3-cent stamp issued on July 14, 1951. The stamp depicts a log cabin, mountain range, and a pioneer scene.\n\nThe Silver Centennial commemorative was issued through the Virginia City, Nevada, post office on June 8, 1959. The 4-cent stamp's vignette depicts Henry Comstock at the Mount Davidson site of the rich silver deposit discovered by Patrick McLaughlin and Peter O'Riley. The stamp was designed by Robert L. Miller and W.K. Schrage, printed by the rotary process, electric-eye perforated, and issued in panes of fifty stamps each. It had an initial printing of 120 million stamps.\n\nThe first thirteen states were formed from British North American colonial territory. Their foundation as states was celebrated at the 200th anniversary of the ratification of the Constitution in a series of thirteen stamps, which were issued in the chronological order of ratification between July 4, 1987 and May 29, 1990. The first three stamps—for Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey—appeared in 1987. Nine stamps were issued during 1988 and 1989, with five state commemoratives issued the same day of their ratification: for Massachusetts, South Carolina, New Hampshire, Virginia and New York. Rhode Island's commemorative was issued on May 29, 1990. The thirteen states ratified the Constitution in half the time it had taken to ratify the Articles of Confederations.\n\nImages are not available from USPS stamps since 1978. Click on the appropriate links for an image held at the Smithsonian Institution's online \"Arago: people, postage & the post\", National Postal Museum.\nDelaware stamp\n\nPennsylvania stamp\n\nNew Jersey stamp\n\nGeorgia stamp \nConnecticut stamp\n\nMassachusetts stamp\n\nMaryland stamp\n\nSouth Carolina stamp \nNew Hampshire stamp\n\nVirginia stamp\n\nNew York stamp\n\nNorth Carolina stamp\n\nRhode Island stamp \nFour states are created from colonial territory belonging to preexisting eastern states, Kentucky in 1792 from Virginia, Tennessee in 1796 of the 1790 Southwest Territory from North Carolina, Maine in 1820 from Massachusetts, and West Virginia in 1863 from Virginia.\n\nThe 150th anniversary of Kentucky's admission to the Union was commemorated with a 3-cent stamp on June 1, 1942. The scene from a State Capitol mural depicts Daniel Boone with companions overlooking the Kentucky River and the site on the opposite shore where Frankfort is now located. The 150th anniversary of Tennessee statehood was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp on June 1, 1946. The Tennessee State Capitol is in the center, flanked by portraits of Andrew Jackson, the first U. S. President from Tennessee (left) and John Sevier, the first governor of Tennessee (right).\n\nMaine statehood is commemorated on the 6-cent stamp picturing the Lighthouse at Two Lights, Maine, issued July 9, 1970. West Virginia commemorated statehood 100th anniversary with a 5-cent stamp on June 20, 1963. The foreground is a map outline of the state, the background features the state capitol.\n\nVermont's 150th anniversary of statehood was celebrated with a 3-cent stamp on March 4, 1941. The vignette pictures the State Capitol at Montpelier. After a brief period of independence, Vermont became the 14th state to enter the Union.\n\nOhio commemorated its 150th anniversary on a 3-cent stamp issued March 2, 1953. The central design features the state seal imposed on a map outline of the state. Sixteen stars in the left and right borders represent states admitted previously; a seventeenth star in the top center represents Ohio, and a buckeye leaf appears in the lower left.\n\nIndiana statehood was commemorated at its 150th anniversary with a 5-cent stamp on April 16, 1966. The design is based on that used for the Sesquicentennial observance, featuring the first capitol building, a map outline and a cluster of 19 stars symbolizing the states in the Union at Indiana's admission.\n\nMississippi statehood's 150th anniversary was celebrated with a 5-cent stamp on December 11, 1967. Andrew Bucci's design features an image of the state flower, the magnolia.\n\nIllinois statehood was celebrated on its 150th anniversary with a 6-cent stamp on February 12, 1968. It features a scene of a farm house and outbuildings on rolling plains under a cloudy sky.\n\nAlabama's statehood 150th anniversary was celebrated with a 6-cent stamp on August 2, 1969, at Huntsville, the first temporary seat of government. The state flower, the camellia, and the state bird, the yellowhammer, are featured. \nMichigan celebrated the 100th anniversary of its campaign for statehood on November 1, 1935, although it was admitted to the Union on January 26, 1837. The 3-cent stamp features the Michigan state seal flanked by a forest scene and an urban industrial scene.\n\nFlorida celebrated its 100th anniversary of statehood by a 3-cent stamp on March 3, 1945. The center of the stamp features the original state seal. The gates of St. Augustine are pictured on the left and the State Capitol in Tallahassee on the right.\n\nWisconsin's statehood 100th anniversary was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp on May 29, 1948. The foreground features a scroll with a map outline of the state, the background design shows the State Capitol. The population of 150,000 exceeded the minimum of 60,000 required by the Ordinance of 1787 for the Northwest Territory.\n\nLouisiana'a 150th anniversary of statehood was celebrated with a 4-cent stamp issued on April 30, 1962. The central design features a steam riverboat seen through a foreground of a riverbank tree with Spanish moss. Norman Todhunter designed the stamp.\n\nMissouri statehood's 150th anniversary was commemorated with an 8-cent stamp on May 8, 1971. The vignette, which comes from Thomas Hart Benton's \"Independence and the Opening of the West\", shows a Native American offering a pipe to settlers in a camp with a wagon train cresting a ridge in the background.\n\nArkansas observed its 100th anniversary of statehood ending its territorial status in 1936, commemorated by a 3-cent stamp issued on June 15. The central vignette features the Old State House in Little Rock. It is flanked by Arkansas Post, the first European settlement in Arkansas by the French, and the first Arkansas State Capitol.\n\nTexas commemorated its 100th anniversary of statehood in 1945, celebrated by a 3-cent stamp issued on December 29. The state was annexed in 1845 pursuant to a Republic of Texas petition to the United States, under the presidency of James K. Polk.\n\nIowa statehood's 100th anniversary was commemorated by a 3-cent stamp on August 3, 1946. The stamp shows the Iowa state flag superimposed on an outline map of the state, and stalks of corn flank the design.\n\nCalifornia statehood's 100th anniversary was celebrated with a 3-cent stamp issued on September 9, 1950. The vignette shows a miner panning gold, and a pioneer couple walking alongside an oxen drawn covered wagon. The left vertical panel shows a citrus tree and the ship bring news of California's statehood.\n\nMinnesota statehood's 100th anniversary was celebrated with a 3-cent stamp on May 11, 1958. The vignette highlights the state's lakes, islands and low rolling hills. The foreground features a pine branch. \nOregon's statehood was commemorated with a 4-cent stamp on February 14, 1959. The central design is an unhorsed covered wagon, with Mount Hood in the right background, sloping westward to the Pacific Ocean. A star on the left symbolizes statehood.\n\nKansas statehood 100th anniversary was commemorated by a 4-cent stamp on May 10, 1961. The design features a sunflower in the foreground with a pioneer couple and a stockade fort in the background.\n\nNevada celebrated its statehood 100th anniversary with a 5-cent stamp on July 22, 1964. The scene depicts Carson City, a major tourist attraction.\n\nNebraska celebrated its 100th statehood anniversary with a 5-cent stamp on July 29, 1967. The stamp features a Hereford cow imposed on a background of an ear of yellow corn.\n\nColorado celebrated its statehood 75th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on August 1, 1951. The central design is of Colorado's capitol building flanked in the background with Mount of the Holy Cross and the state seal. In the foreground appear the state flower, the columbine, and mounted cowboy. \n\nFour states celebrated their 50th anniversary of statehood ending territorial status with a 3-cent stamp on November 2, 1939. They were North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana and Washington state. The stamp shows a map of the northwestern United States with the four subject states in outline.\n\nIdaho commemorated statehood 50th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on July 3, 1940. The stamp shows the State Capitol building.\n\nWyoming commemorated statehood's 50th anniversary with a 3-cent stamp on July 10, 1940. The stamp design shows the state seal, the central figure is a woman before a banner, \"Equal Rights\", flanked by men symbolizing live stock and grain, mines and oil.\n\nOklahoma's statehood 50th anniversary was commemorated with a 3-cent stamp on June 14, 1957. The foreground is an arrow piercing the atomic orbital symbol, imposed on a map outline of the state, with the slogan, \"arrows to atoms\".\n\nNew Mexico statehood 50th anniversary was celebrated with a 4-cent stamp on January 6, 1962. The stamp features a northwestern New Mexican mesa named \"Shiprock\". \nArizona celebrated statehood 50th anniversary with a 4-cent stamp on February 14, 1962. The foreground features the state flower of the giant saguaro cactus, the background is a moonlit desert scene.\n\nAlaska statehood was celebrated with a 7-cent airmail stamp on January 3, 1959. The stamp shows the state flag's star constellations of the Big Dipper and North Star superimposed on a map outline of the state. The background is of wooded hills and snow-capped mountains.\n\nHawaii statehood was celebrated with a 7-cent airmail stamp on August 29, 1959, the date of the presidential proclamation of Hawaii's admission to the Union. The stamp pictures a Hawaiian warrior and a five pointed star for statehood imposed on the background of a topical relief map of the islands.\n\nOne modern stamp issued by USPS completes the commemoration of the fifty states, Utah stamp, 1996 issue, a 32-cent stamp on January 4, 1996, commemorated Utah statehood 100th anniversary. The stamp depicts the iconic Delicate Arch geological formation framing the La Sal Mountains.\n\nEarly explorers include Christopher Columbus and Leif Erikson.\n\nChristopher Columbus was honored in the first U.S. commemorative stamps in the Columbian Exposition issue of 1893. On his return to Spain, Columbus reported his discoveries to the Spanish monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella, who made the Americas widely known in Europe.\n\nLeif Erikson the 11th century Norse explorer was honored with a 6-cent stamp on October 9, 1968 — Leif Erikson Day. The stamp was inspired by the statue by American Stirling Calder in Reykjavic, Iceland.\n\nVasco Núñez de Balboa, the Spanish explorer of the Panama Canal region, is honored in the Panama-Pacific Exposition issue. Balboa called the western ocean 'Mar del Sur'. The 1-cent stamp paid the post card rate. Patrons also commonly combined it with other denominations to fulfill large weight and foreign destination rates. Over 330 million 1-cent stamps were printed.\n\nEarly French explorers include Antoine Cadillac, Jacques Marquette and Jean Nicolet.\n\nAntoine de la Mothe Cadillac was honored with a 3-cent stamp on July 24, 1951, to commemorate the 250th anniversary of his landing at Detroit in 1701. Cadillac founded the city of Detroit. The stamp's background design depicts Detroit's skyline as it appeared in 1951 and the foreground shows Cadillac's landing at Detroit in 1701. His namesake is the Cadillac motor vehicle company.\n\nJacques Marquette was honored on the one-cent stamp of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition Issue. The vignette shows him on the Mississippi, though when he crossed Lake Superior in spring 1674 his wintering cabin was on the site which would become Chicago.\n\nExplorer Jean Nicolet's landing at Green Bay, Wisconsin, in 1634 was celebrated on its 300th anniversary by a violet 3-cent stamp issued on July 7, 1934. The vignette is taken from a painting by Edward W. Deming depicting Nicolet's landing at Green Bay, with numerous Indians present.\n\nEarly English explorers include John Smith and Philip Carteret.\n\nCaptain John Smith—who promoted the Jamestown settlement, explored the Chesapeake region and as its governor, is credited with its success—was honored on the 1-cent stamp of the Jamestown Exposition issue. The Simon de Passe engraving of John Smith (1580–1631) inspired the image on the stamp.\n\nPhilip Carteret was honored on New Jersey's 300th anniversary 5-cent stamp on June 15, 1964, which shows Carteret landing at Elizabethtown (Elizabeth), the state's oldest city. The scene is superimposed over an outline map of New Jersey.\n\nFrancisco Vázquez de Coronado found the Pacific Southwest exploring for Spain. On the 400th anniversary a 3-cent stamp was issued May 29, 1935. The California Pacific International Exposition is shown with Point Loma and San Diego Bay in the background.\n\nCoronado's expeditions of exploration through the southwestern states in search of riches were celebrated on a 3-cent stamp issued September 7, 1940, on the 400th anniversary. He extended northeast as far as Kansas learning about the Indians and the regional topography.\n\nEarly American explorers of the west include Daniel Boone.\nDaniel Boone was honored with a 6-cent stamp in the American Folklore Series, issued on September 26, 1968, at Frankfort, Kentucky, where he was buried. He was a famous frontiersman in the development of Virginia, Kentucky and the trans-Appalachian west. A wall of roughly-hewn boards display the tools of Boone's trade—a Pennsylvania rifle, a powder horn, and a knife. The pipe tomahawk represents that the Shawnees had adopted Boone. His name and birth date was carved on the wall. \n\nLater American explorers include Lewis and Clark, John C. Frémont and John Wesley Powell.\n\nCaptain Meriwether Lewis and Lieutenant William Clark commanded the Corps of Discovery to map the Pacific Northwest. They were honored with a 3-cent stamp July 24, 1954 on the 150th anniversary. The 1803 Louisiana Purchase doubled the size of the United States Lewis and Clark, described and sketched its flora and fauna and described the native inhabitants they encountered before returning to St. Louis in 1806.\n\nCaptain John C. Frémont was honored on the 5-cent stamp of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition Issue. He was pictured in a vignette placing the United States flag on a peak in the Rocky Mountains at the age of thirty in 1843. Founder of the Republican Party and presidential candidate in 1856, he was a Union general and Senator from California. A California Gold Rush millionaire, he lost most of his fortune in bad business investments.\n\nJohn Wesley Powell, the noted geologist who explored the Colorado River, was honored on a 6-cent stamp issued August 1, 1969. Powell led an 1869 expedition down the Green and Colorado Rivers, a 1,000-mile, four-months' journey. He is now regarded as the father of the US Geological Survey, the Reclamation Service of the Interior Department, and the Bureau of American Ethnology of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nLate American explorers included Richard Byrd. The United States maintains research facilities in Antarctica without making territorial claims there, along with other international bases there.\n\nRichard E. Byrd's Byrd Antarctic Expedition II was commemorated on a 3-cent stamp the same size and shape as Special Delivery on September 22, 1933. Intended for the collectors' market alone, the 'philatelic mail' with this stamp was carried by the expedition and postmarked at the Little America post office, the expedition's base camp. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11724263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11724263", "title": "The Broken Spears", "text": "The Broken Spears\n\nThe Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico (Spanish title: \"Visión de los vencidos: Relaciones indígenas de la conquista\") is a book by Miguel León-Portilla, translating selections of Nahuatl-language accounts of the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire. It was first published in Spanish in 1959, and in English in 1962. The most recent English edition was published in 2007 ().\n\nThe English-language title, \"The Broken Spears\", comes from a phrase in one version (BnF MS 22) of the Annals of Tlatelolco, \"xaxama[n]toc omitl\". According to historian James Lockhart, this is a mistranslation resulting from confusion between the Nahuatl words \"mitl\" \"arrow\", \"dart\" or \"spear\", and \"omitl\" \"bone\"; an alternative translation is thus \"broken bones\".\n\nThe monograph \"Broken Spears\" is structured through three distinct sections: the first is the overall introduction that León-Portilla uses to provide background for the content of the book. He describes Aztec cultural life amongst the Nahua peoples, the importance of translators that spoke Nahuatl, and the struggle of accounts that were written by eyewitnesses well after the Spanish conquest of Mexico. León-Portilla prefaces the sources he chose for the book with not only background on the events but descriptions and background information on the sources themselves. While the second and third sections follow chronologically, the first section depicts the Azteca and their initial reactions to the omens that are attributed to local Aztec mystics after the conquest that heralded the Spanish arrival.\n\nThe following sections break down the role of the proceeding war, then the effect of disease and war upon the Aztecs. León-Portilla's concise historical context and Ángel María Garibay's translations of Nahuatl passages lead into the second section of the monograph: the Aztec’s campaign against the Spanish and their defeat by a wide variety of causes, from both military conquest and disease, that is portrayed from the point of view of the natives. A notable example of \"Broken Spears\" narrative is the exclusion of native forces allied with the Spanish Conquistadores in Mexico, as well as the influence and importance of translators, such as La Malinche.\n\nFollowing these accounts, the monograph and its translated work concludes in the Aftermath, where León-Portilla highlights the \"difficult relations that have always existed between the descendants of the Aztecs and their \"others\" – the colonial Spaniards and contemporary Mexicans.\" These relations are marked by letters written to the Spanish Crown, notably Philip II of Spain, directly from native individuals. The accounts vary from pleading to King Philip II for audiences, to fears manifesting in later centuries for Nahua identity clashing with colonial Spain.\n\nWritten in the expanded foreword of the recent English edition, it is credited to the author that \"Miguel León-Portilla has been at the forefront of the struggle to bring the voices of past and present indigenous peoples of Mexico within hearing distance of the rest of the world. And no book has contributed more to this effort than this one. From the time The Broken Spears was first published in 1959 ... hundreds of thousands of copies have appeared in Spanish alone, and many tens of thousands have been printed in French, Italian, German, Hebrew, Polish, Swedish, Hungarian, Serbo-Croatian, Portuguese, Japanese, and Catalan. The present English edition, which first came out in 1962, has gone through numerous printings, with tens of thousands of copies sold since 1974.\"\n\nPopular enough to be translated into several different languages, León-Portilla’s work is regarded academically as sound and well written, particularly with the context in the original Spanish edition. Ángel María Garibay's translation is described as \"subtle\" and \"unique and powerful: he should ideally be read in Spanish, not English.\" Miguel León-Portilla’s summarization of the Aztec Empire is described as \"masterful\" and the compilation between the translator and historian was given credit for working well together.\n\nThe opposition to the book says it is \"intended for a non-expert readership\" and \"does not, itself, give the material for answers.\" Other historians give detrimental marks to the work through the elimination of accent marks and the structure of the references at the end of each chapter. Still, among its negative remarks from fellow historians, \"The Broken Spears\" is regarded as \"well-organized\" and is \"a useful introduction and point of departure for the student interested in further research\" on the subject matter.\n\nDue to the popularity and influence of \"The Broken Spears\", several translations were made and released well after the original publication:\n\n"}
{"id": "45546786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45546786", "title": "The International Resource Privilege", "text": "The International Resource Privilege\n\nThe International Resource Privilege is the power to transfer ownership or freely dispose of the natural resources of a country by the authority that countries give to the current leadership or government of that country. The resource privilege exists regardless of how the rulers came to power. While bribery is often illegal, the purchase of these resources by payment to the current government in control is legal. Corrupt leaders sell these resources to generate revenue which entrenches the corrupt government and incentivizing the seizure of power itself. This further handicaps the ability to achieve democracy along with hindering economic growth and the eradication of poverty.\n\nSome academics argue that International Resource Privilege remains because arrangements between global institutions tend to be struck without adequate concern for their thoroughgoing effects on the global poor. One example is that it provides additional incentive to overthrowing governments, which in turn contributes to a cycle of political instability where a promising government might just as soon be toppled as a brutal military regime. There is little incentive for foreign governments to challenge the situation because they benefit from it. The Washington Post quotes Thomas Pogge as saying “most of us do not merely let people starve, but also participate in starving them.” We elect officials that let the corporations buy the natural resources that should belong to the people is the argument for why we are involved. For example oil wealth and dictatorship go together as seen in Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. This international economic and political system perpetuates and reproduces poverty in such that western nations have a negative duty not to do harm to the people of these nations.\n\nExxon Mobile is the largest exporter from Equatorial Guinea, Exxon pays Teodoro Obiang and his family for the oil rights. Simon Taylor, director of Global Witness said he is \"A dictator who has impoverished his citizens and enriched himself and his family by plundering the country's oil wealth\" Which leads us to the thought of \"What are our moral obligations to these people?\", are we responsible for their poverty and human rights violations? Thomas Pogge argues that we are.\n\nMathias Risse calls the resource and borrowing privilege \"The Cosmopolitan Complaint\". He does acknowledge that the global order provides incentives for it but attributes oppression to the sheer desire to rule. Risse rejects the belief that the global order Pogge is referring to is shaped by the \"sheer existence of states\" but Pogge rejects this idea also.\n\n"}
{"id": "25187693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187693", "title": "Vladimír Kompánek", "text": "Vladimír Kompánek\n\nVladimír Kompánek (28 October 1927 in Rajec – 20 January 2011) was a Slovak sculptor and painter. He won the Herder Prize in 1967.\n\nBetween 1947 - 1949 he studied at the Slovak Technical University in Bratislava, then from 1949 - 1954 at the College of Fine Arts.\n\nHis wooden sculptures draw ideas from the rural environment. Kompánek also creates the concept of \"protective deities\", symbols which appear in his works. symbols. A frequent motif he uses is a woman and field characters and carnival masks. He is also a maker of wooden toys.\n"}
{"id": "5995631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5995631", "title": "William R. Polk", "text": "William R. Polk\n\nWilliam Roe Polk (born 1929 in Fort Worth, Texas) is a veteran foreign policy consultant and author. He is a former professor of history at Harvard University and the University of Chicago, and was President of the latter's Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. \n\nHe was born in Fort Worth, Texas and grew up on a ranch in west Texas. He is a relation of president James K. Polk and of the prominent lawyer and diplomat Frank Polk He attended public school in Fort Worth and the New Mexico Military Institute. He studied in Latin America and worked on a Rome newspaper before matriculating and earning a BA and Ph.D from Harvard University, and BA and MA from Oxford University. He also studied at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the Universidad de Chile, the University of Baghdad and the American University of Cairo. \n\nPolk taught Middle Eastern history and politics at Harvard from 1955–61, and was then appointed by President Kennedy to the State Department's Policy Planning Council focusing on the Middle East and North Africa. While there he served as a member of the Cuban Missile Crisis management team. \n\nIn 1961 Polk was a Guggenheim Fellow in Near Eastern Studies.\n\nPolk resigned from the federal government to join the University of Chicago as professor of history in 1965, where he taught for ten years and established its Center for Middle Eastern Studies, serving as Founding Director. \n\nIn 1967 Polk became president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs, which hosted the 20th Pugwash Conference on nuclear weapons problems, helped organize the “Table Ronde” meeting which laid groundwork for the European Union, and contributed to planning the United Nations Environmental Program. During the 1967 Middle Eastern Six-Day War he returned to Washington to write a draft peace treaty and to serve as an advisor to McGeorge Bundy, who was President Johnson’s personal representative during that crisis.\n\nPolk was Vice Chairman of the W.P. Carey Foundation and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He lives and writes in southern France and is married to Baroness Elisabeth von Oppenheimer. He has lectured at the Canadian Institute of International Relations, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Royal Institute of International Affairs, and the Institute of World Economy and International Affairs of the Soviet (now Russian) Academy of Sciences, as well at over a hundred universities and colleges.\n\nWilliam Polk was also the foreign policy adviser for Democratic candidate Dennis Kucinich's presidential campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23217237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23217237", "title": "Wizard People, Dear Reader", "text": "Wizard People, Dear Reader\n\nWizard People, Dear Reader, released in 2004, is an unauthorized, alternative soundtrack to \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\", written by Brad Neely, a comic book artist from Fort Smith, Arkansas.\n\n\"Wizard People, Dear Reader\" is a narrative retelling of the lives of the characters of \"The Sorcerer's Stone\" and the world in which they live. Presented in the form of a thirty-five chapter audiobook, this soundtrack is intended to replace the film's audio track.\n\nBrad Neely, in an interview with \"Chief\" magazine, described the beginning of the idea as follows: Anyway, we were at a bar and were getting a good laugh at a guy who was playing pool all by himself while wearing a hoody over his hat, sunglasses under that and headphones on the outside of all of it. So we started riffing on \"What could he possibly be listening to?\". Someone who I don't think was me said that he was listening to a book on tape of \"Harry Potter\". And out came the \"Wizard People\" narrator. I joked that night that I was going to rush home and record an entire misinformed book on tape of \"The Sorcerer's Stone\", because I had not and have not ever read any \"Harry Potter\" books. Once I started making notes for it I realized that an audio track alone could get boring, so I decided to sync it with the movie. Then I took a week or two and made the damn thing. I love it.\n\nIn 2004, the New York Underground Film Festival rented a print of the film from Warner Bros., screened it with the sound off, and played Neely's soundtrack instead. Shortly thereafter, website Illegal Art made Neely's work available for free download. In the following year, Neely also performed \"Wizard People\" live in several cities, until Warner Bros. took action against theatres that had rented prints, and forced them to cancel the shows. Rather than taking legal action, however, Warner Bros. reportedly told theaters which had scheduled a performance of the show that further movies produced by the studio would be withheld unless the dates were cancelled, possibly due to the protection allowed for by parody laws. Carrie McLaren, whose website Illegal-art.net promoted the work, claimed that Neely's use of appropriated plot, characters and themes interlaced with humor constituted a separate work of art in its own right.\n\nIn \"Wizard People, Dear Reader\", Neely's writing ranges from hyperbolic representations of the characters, to focusing on and forming bizarre explications of the tropes and clichés present throughout, to long-winded and mostly unrelated metaphors in the prose of Steven \"Jesse\" Bernstein (the poet whose voice and style of narration he imitated for the commentary), to over-dramatic philosophical speeches, to extreme renaming of a multitude of characters and places, to unreliable narrator character bashing (most characters that are not Harry, Ron or Dumbledore receive quite a bit of criticism), to several sexual and vulgar motifs placed throughout. Much of the humor connecting to the sexual and vulgar motifs and the philosophical speeches seem aimed at highlighting the childlike atmosphere and writing of the film in contrast to Neely's narration; and much of the humor connecting to the explications of cliches and to the hyperbolic representations of the characters is often seen as a form of critiquing on the part of Neely. There is a split on whether people think it's an affectionate parody or an ironic critique of the film, though there are suggestions that it's actually a bit of both.\n\nHarry himself is repeatedly referred to as a god; references are made to the \"stockpiles of nuclear-level energy\" that are his powers, the resentment he feels towards his fellow man, his placement as an outcast of society, and so on. At one point, Harry calls himself a \"beautiful animal\" and a \"destroyer of worlds\". He also repeatedly affirms that he is \"Harry \"fucking\" Potter\". Numerous references are made to characters taking out unseen flasks or drinking alcohol, and Harry is mentioned as being \"drunk every day before noon\" and producing \"many a Wine-Out-of-Nowhere spell\". Hermione (\"The Wretched Harmony\") is repeatedly described as incredibly ugly yet talented and brilliant, Snape (\"Snake\") is referred to as a hideous woman that \"seems like the type of teacher that paddles for fun\", and at one point, Neely simply remarks that \"Ron loves Twizzlers\". (Ron is almost always referred to as \"Ronnie the Bear\".) A range of other insults and non-existent character paradigms see less consistent use, and Harry is also described with various symptoms of dissociative identity disorder, at one point \"leaving his multiple personalities in the locker room\". The use of spells receives similar twists, with Dumbledore (\"Near-Dead Dumbledore\") casting the \"stand without effort\" spell due to his advanced age, while Harry casts the \"rarely used winter-begone spell\" at a scene transition between winter and spring.\n\nThe work makes extensive use of simile: Professor McGonagall (\"Hardcastle McCormick\") is described as having a voice that is \"chilling, like a piano made of frozen Windex\", while her \"eyes float like smears of fish-scales on her candle-wax stump of a head\"; the face of Voldemort (\"Wal-Mart\") \"moves like a marmalade baby just out of the womb\".\n\nNeely segues into multiple fantasy sequences that have nothing to do with what is actually going on in the film. One such scene is where Hagrid (\"Hägar the Horrible\") is explaining Norbert's egg. Instead of regaling Hagrid's encounter with a strange man in a bar, Hagar tells of how Val-Mart impregnated him with the egg, resulting in his survival of a shark attack. Another such scene is where the trio of young wizards encounter Fluffy for the second time and are about to jump down the trap door. Harmony is allegedly decapitated and resurrected without those events occurring onscreen. One of the most elaborate divergences is the sequence where Neville (\"the boy known as Upfish\") loses control of his broom. Neely apparently narrates Harry's present daydream climbing his parents' giant rotten wedding cake thanks to Dumbledore's body (\"using his old ribcage, mouth sockets and such for footholds\"). As Harry goes to retrieve a winged key at the finale, Neely narrates that Harry goes into a waking dream-like trance. The entire scene is dominated by a rambling vision of Harry's in which he conquers the American continent with a telescope, teaching the natives spells, \"and they in turn teach him how to fly across the continent at ridiculous speeds. He learns to slay deer with laser beams from his eyes, and how to make all things around the house out of buffalo parts\".\n\nThere are also many references to other works throughout the soundtrack: Professor Flitwick is referred to as \"Professor Ugnaught\" in reference to his similar appearance to the Ugnaughts of Bespin in \"The Empire Strikes Back\", while Val-Mart is made Harry's true father à la Darth Vader. At one point Harry puts on the invisibility cloak and Neely exclaims \"Invisibility ON!\", as per the Human Torch of the Fantastic Four. In an early appearance, Hägar introduces himself as \"gatekeeper and keymaster\", a reference to \"Ghostbusters\". Neely even refers to future \"Potter\" films when he claims that the children are on their way to the Chamber of Secrets.\n\nHeavy descriptions are also a large part of the commentary. During Harry's stay with the Dursleys (\"the Porktown family\") at the beginning of the film, he is described as being lost in his own world in a drunk stupor; \"the uncle is beginning to feel the pressure. Harry, in a spiral of depression, turns to the escape of the world of miniature equine aficionada\". Similarly, many of the moments throughout the commentary redundantly describe things that we can clearly see: \"Then, dear readers, Harry notices a tear in Snake's pants, and blood all over her leg, and Snake notices that Harry has noticed, and he notices that she noticed that. I mean, there is a trade of noticing going on that is just bewildering!\" and \"Blam! Blaam! Blaaam! at the door. The Porktown family scuttles into position, but what busts in the door is far more than expected. It is Hägar the Horrible, the nightmare of hair, a wall of a man\". It focuses on acute descriptions of easily apparent situations for the sake of noting the simplicity of it.\n\nA recurring theme in \"Wizard People\" is the changing of characters' and locations' names.\nThis soundtrack is composed of two audio CDs, which were made available for free download in MP3 format. The CDs must be played simultaneously with a DVD of the first \"Harry Potter\" film, preferably the North American DVD, muted or at low volume.\n\nTwo versions of the CD set have been released: the first in summer 2004 and the second in early-mid-2005. As of February 2007, only the second version is available on the Illegal Art website, while the original is available at Brad Neely's website, Creased Comics. The two versions are very similar: differences include \"fixing\" the weaker lines from the first version, and a more polished and thoroughly-rehearsed performance by Brad.\n\nThe first version's CDs can be played completely continuously, and there is no need to alter the discs' timing or volume. In order to play the second version continuously, a delay of approximately three seconds must be inserted between the CDs, and the tracks' volume must be normalized, as the first disc is significantly quieter (approximately 7.7 decibels less) than the second.\n\nSince the CDs are designed to synchronize with the North American release of the film, played at 24 frames per second, the PAL video transfers of the film (used in most of the rest of the world) suffer from a technical incompatibility, meaning that they run at 25 frames per second, so the MP3 files must be sped up by 4.2% (or the movie slowed down) in order to retain synchronization. The Canadian release of the film also uses alternate takes to refer to the titular stone as the Philosopher's Stone (the original name) rather than the Americanized \"Sorcerer's Stone\", and as such, the audio may get slightly out of sync as the film progresses on the Canadian DVD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16955804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16955804", "title": "Women En Large", "text": "Women En Large\n\nWomen En Large: Images of Fat Nudes by Laurie Toby Edison, with text by Debbie Notkin, was published in 1994 by Books in Focus. The book is a fine-art photography book of nudes of fat women. It contains 41 black-and-white photographs and two essays by Notkin, plus an artist's statement by Edison and an assortment of work (poetry, songs, quotations) by the women in the photographs.\n\nTracy Young, reviewing the book in \"Allure\" magazine, said, \"Like painter Lucian Freud's monumental nudes of performance artist Leigh Bowery... the nude women in \"Women En Large\" have a certain majesty, the unabashedness of Henry Moore sculptures. They have escaped. And they're enough to convince you that clothes, not flesh, are what makes fat people look diminished.\"\n\nPhotographs from \"Women En Large\" have been shown in New York, Tokyo, Kyoto, Toronto, Boston, London, St. Petersburg, Beijing, Seoul, Budapest, and San Francisco.\n\n"}
{"id": "26916262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26916262", "title": "Women in the military in Europe", "text": "Women in the military in Europe\n\nEuropean countries have had varying policies that confine women and military service or the extent of their participation in the national armed services of their respective countries, especially combatant roles in armed conflicts or hostile environments. While most of the countries have always allowed women to participate in military activities involving no direct aggression with the enemy, most began seeing the value of servicewomen in the armed services during the First World War when they began losing unprecedented numbers of servicemen. In modern times many of the European countries now allow women to voluntarily pursue a career path or profession in the national armed services of their country as well as permit conscription equality, with minimal or no restrictions at all.\n\nWomen were employed in the Danish armed forces as early as 1934 with the Ground Observer Corps, Danish Women's Army Corps and Naval Corps in 1946 and the Women's Air Force since 1953. In 1962 the Danish parliament passed laws allowing women to volunteer in the regular Danish armed forces as long as they did not serve in units experiencing direct combat. 1971 saw the enlistment of women as non-commissioned officers, with military academies allowing women in 1974.\n\nIn 1978, based on the reports of studies on the topic, women were allowed to enlist in an all areas of the Danish armed forces, with combat trials in the eighties exploring the capabilities of women in combat. In 1998 laws were passed allowing women to sample military life in the same way as conscripted men, however without being completely open to conscription. Women in the Danish military come under the command of the Chief of Defense.\n\nAs with many nations with women in their armed forces, Denmark has different basic physical requirements for men and women in their armed forces, however the requirements for the more physically demanding jobs do not differ for either sex.\n\nThe Finnish Defense Forces does not conscript women. However, since 1995, women between 18 and 30 years of age have the possibility of voluntarily undertaking military service in the Defence Forces or in the Border Guard. Females serve under the same conditions as men, with the exception that during the first 45 days of service they have the option to leave the military without consequences. After that, they must complete the service which lasts 6, 9 or 12 months. After the service, the females face the same reserve obligations as the males who have done the obligatory military service. If the female in national service experiences a conscientious crisis which prevents her from fulfilling her military service or reserve obligations, she is ordered to the alternative civilian service, which lasts 12 months.\n\nAll services and units in the Finnish Defence Forces and the Finnish Border Guard accept females. In garrison environment, the females are lodged in separate rooms and are given separate toilet and bath facilities. In exercises and aboard ships, women are lodged with men. The women in national service are given an extra allowance of €0,40 per diem for sanitary articles and smallclothes. The females in military service are usually well motivated and some 60% of them receive either NCO or reserve officer training. Yearly, some 500 women complete the voluntary military service, while some 30,000 men complete the obligatory conscription.\nThe women who have completed the voluntary military service are eligible for further military employment. If they have at least NCO training, they can apply for career NCO positions or for officer training. These career paths have been open since 1996, when the first women completed the military service. In 2005, 32 female career officers were in service. The number of female warrant officers was 16 and the number of female specialist officers 7. In comparison, there were a total of 2.584 officers and 894 specialist officers in service. The women made up about 16% of the total career NCO cadre. However, most of these career NCOs were grandfathered former female enlistees who had not undertaken military service.\nThe history of women in the Finnish military is, however, far longer than just since 1995. During the Finnish Civil War, the Reds had several \"Naiskaarti\" (Women's Guard) units made of voluntary 16- to 35-year-old women, who were given rudimentary military training. The reactions on women in military were ambivalent during the Civil War. The fighting women of the Reds were shunned in the White propaganda but in the Red side propaganda they were admired and also compared to the \"amazons of old\". The White side founded their own female organization, Lotta Svärd in November 1918. While the \"Lottas\" were not front line fighting units per sé, as a paramilitary organization they handled several important second-line duties freeing men to the actual fighting service. A voluntary Lotta unit manned a searchlight battery of Finnish anti-aircraft artillery in defense of Helsinki in 1944. After the Continuation War, Lotta Svärd was declared a \"paramilitary organization\" and absolved in 1944.\n\nIn 1961, the Finnish Defence Forces started to enlist females for second-line duties. The duties available to women were radar operator, sea-control person, and C3 person. Most of the female enlisted served in coastal artillery and Finnish Air Force. The women enlisted all served in the rank of \"värvätty\" (enlisted), using a special female uniform. In 1994, the female enlisted were given the same status as military persons as the male enlisted. At the same time, the women who had undergone the voluntary military service received the possibility to be recruited for all military careers. In the beginning of the year 2007, the term enlisted (\"värvätty\") was changed to NCO (\"aliupseeri\") to better recognize the change in the duties of this personnel group. The female enlistees who had not undertaken military service were grandfathered. They remain in the rank of enlistee unless they complete the conscript NCO course.\n\nThe non-combat duties in Finnish Defence Forces peace-keeping operations opened to women in 1991. At first, the women without previous military training experienced rather large problems in the Finnish peace-keeping units, most remarkably in the Republic of Macedonia in the mid-1990s. Since the introduction of the voluntary military service, the women have mostly the same training as the men which has lessened the problems. Only a handful of women without military training, mostly nurses or social service personnel, are serving with the Finnish peace-keeping forces. All duties in Finnish foreign operations are open to women, provided they have the necessary military training.\n\nIn the 1800s, women in the French military were responsible for preparing meals for soldiers, and were called Cantinières. They sold food to soldiers beyond that which was given to them as rations. Cantinières had commissions from the administrators of the regiments, and they were required to be married to a soldier of the regiment. They served near the front lines on active campaigns, and some served for as long as 30 years.\n\nThe role of women in the French military grew in 1914 with the recruitment of women as medical personnel (Service de Santé des Armées). In 1939, they were authorized to enlist with the armed service branches, and in 1972 their status evolved to share the same ranks as those of men. Nonetheless, women are still not permitted to join the field combat units or to be aboard the submarines of the French navy.\n\nValérie André, a neurosurgeon, became the first woman in France to attain the rank of three-star general as Médecin Général Inspecteur. A veteran of the French Resistance, she served overseas in Indochina. During that period, she learned how to pilot a helicopter so that she could reach wounded soldiers who were trapped in the jungle. André is the first woman to have flown a helicopter in combat. She received many decorations for her achievements, including the highest rank of the Legion of Honour. She retired from active service in 1981. Many other French women were involved in the French Resistance.\n\nSince the creation of the Bundeswehr in 1955, Germany had employed one of the most conservative gender-policies of any NATO country. That was generally regarded as a reaction to the deployment of young women at the end of World War II. Though women were exempt from direct combat functions in accordance with Nazi-ideology, several hundred thousand German women, along with young boys and sometimes girls (as Flakhelfer), served in Luftwaffe artillery units; their flak shot down thousands of Allied warplanes.\n\nIn the year 1975 the first female medical officers were appointed in the \"Sanitätsdienst\" (Medical corps) of the Bundeswehr. Since 1994, two women, Verena von Weymarn and Erika Franke, attained the rank of \"Generalarzt\" (Surgeon General). But it was not until January 2001 that women first joined German combat units, following a court ruling by the European Court of Justice. The change in the law was prompted after a qualified female electronics technician argued her case to the European Court of Justice after her application to join the Maintenance-Recovery Service (Electronics) technical unit of the German Armed Forces was rejected in 1996, citing \"it is barred by German law for women to perform armed services\". The court ruled that preventing women from occupying combat roles in the armed forces was against sexual equality principles. 244 of the first 1,900 women who signed up following the law change were admitted on the first day of the new rules, the majority of them joining the army and air force. \nThere are no restrictions regarding the branch of service, and there are women serving in the \"Fallschirmjäger\" (paratrooper), aboard submarines and jet-fighter aircraft. Before the law change 4,400 women only occupied military medicine or military-band roles within the German armed forces. The new legislations initially did not receive full military support. A report on the subject commented that, regarding the older male soldiers, \"The way they see themselves as male fighters is shattered\". Like many countries who have accepted women into combat roles, Germany conducts special courses on preventing sexual harassment.\n\nAfter several years of experience the commotion inside the Bundeswehr has now remarkably decreased. Today women are regularly being sent to foreign deployments. As of January 2010 about 16,900 female soldiers serve in the Bundeswehr, representing a share of 9 percent of all troops except conscripted soldiers. The German Bundeswehr now expects the percentage of all female personnel to rise to about 15 percent in the middle-term future.\n\nIn 2007 the first woman in the German air force received her jet-fighter licence. A handful more are flying helicopters and transport planes.\n\nThe Defence (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1979, allowed women to join the Irish Defence Forces for the first time and was passed by the Oireachtas in 1979. There are no restrictions for women to the \"full range of operational and administrative duties.\" As of January 2010 the number of women in the Permanent Defence Forces is 565, 5.7 percent of the total.\n\nDuring World War II, the Italian Social Republic established the Female Volunteer Unit () as an auxiliary service and their soldiers were known as Female Auxiliary Unit (). The law that introduced this unit provided that its existence be limited to war periods. Its equivalent in Southern Italy during World War II, was the \"CAF\", , that was on the side of the Allies. This unit was also dismissed at the end of the war. Those who belonged to this unit were equivalent to sub-lieutenants and wore military uniforms made in Great Britain. In 1959, the Female Police unit () was established.\n\nIn 1981, Diadora Bussani was the first woman who asked to be admitted into the Italian Naval Academy of Livorno (). She was born in 1962 in Trieste and started to try to join the academy in 1981. After being excluded from the application, Italy's regional administrative court upheld the appeal; however, Italy's State Council overturned the judgment. The enlisting of a woman seemed to be legally feasible because of the Italian law Legge 1963 n. 66, which allowed the enrollment of women in public positions, but Italy's State Council excluded the military because of biological differences between male and female human bodies. When Diadora Bussani became famous and the case was well-known, the United States Navy symbolically granted her enlistment on 2 November 1982.\n\nVoluntary female military service was introduced in 1999 with the Italian law Legge 20 ottobre 1999 n. 380, which introduced the possibility of being admitted to the army for women. Italy was the last country among NATO members to allow women to deploy.\n\nNowadays women are present in all branches of Italian armed forces, including the police, and the Guardia di Finanza, and they are also employed for military missions abroad. Before the year 2000, women were employed in war only as voluntary nurses inside the organizations Croce Rossa Italiana and of Corpo delle infermiere volontarie dell'ACISMOM. 235º Reggimento fanteria \"Piceno\" is the training center for women inside the Italian army.\n\nWomen in Norway have been serving in military roles since 1938. During the Second World War both enlisted women and female officers served in all branches of the military. However, in 1947 political changes commanded that women only serve in civilian posts, with reservists allowing women to join in 1959.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1984, the Norwegian Parliament passed laws expanding the role of women in the Norwegian Armed Forces, and in 1985 equal opportunities legislation was applied to the military. \nIn 1995, Norway became the first country to allow women to serve on its military submarines\n\nIn a further step in favour of gender equality in the armed services, the Norwegian parliament voted, with a strong majority, the 14th of June 2014, a bill to extend compulsory military service to females from mid-2016. Norway is the first NATO member and first European country to make national service compulsory for both sexes. It will apply to all medically fit Norwegian citizens between age 19-44 born from 1997 onwards. Women born in 1997 and onwards will also be subject to conscription during wartime.\n\nAs of 2017, 1341 of the 11596 military personnel in the Norwegian military forces were women (12%). Of all the conscriped soldiers the same year, the female percentage was 23%. c\n\nOn 26 January 2017, major general Tonje Skinnarland became the first-ever appointed woman to be the head of the Royal Norwegian air force.\n\nWomen have taken part in the battles for independence against occupiers and invaders since at least the time of the Napoleonic Wars. During the occupation by the Nazis, 1939–1945, several thousand women took part in the resistance movement as members of the Home Army. The Germans were forced to establish special prisoner-of-war camps after the Warsaw Rising in 1944 to accommodate over a thousand women prisoners.\n\nIn April 1938 the law requiring compulsory military service for men included provisions for voluntary service of women in auxiliary roles, in the medical services, in the anti-aircraft artillery and in communications. In 1939 a Women's Military Training Organization was established under the command of Maria Wittek.\n\nIn present Poland a law passed April 6, 2004 requires all women with college nursing or veterinary degrees to register for compulsory service. In addition it allows women to volunteer and serve as professional personnel in all services of the army. As of June 30, 2007 there are 800 women in the army, of which 471 are officers, 308 non-commissioned officers and 21 other ranks, in addition 225 are in military training schools.\n\nThe first woman known to have enlisted in the Russian Army was Nadezhda Durova who, pretending to be a man, fought with distinction in the Napoleonic Wars. At that time, however, she was very much of a unique exception in an all-male army.\n\nDuring the First World War, heavy defeats led to the loss of millions of Russian Imperial soldiers. To psychologically energize morale Alexander Kerensky (leader of Russia of the Russian Provisional Government) ordered the creation of the Woman’s Death Battalion in May 1917. After three months of fighting, the size of this all-female unit fell from 2,000 to 250. In November 1917, the Bolsheviks dissolved the unit. Shortly after Russia became part of the Soviet Union (see above for the role of woman in Soviet military) till December 1991.\n\nThe current tally of woman in the Russian Army is standing at around 115,000 to 160,000, representing 10% of Russia’s military strength. They're not allowed in combat roles, however.\n\nThe Russian army runs the Miss Russian Army beauty contest for attractive female Russian soldiers. Colonel Gennady Dzyuba, of the Defense Ministry, said of the 2005 contest that \"Those who have served, especially in hot spots, know the importance of women in the armed forces.\"\n\nWomen had the legal right to serve in the Soviet Armed Forces throughout the post Second World War period, with many all-female units existing as far back as World War One. By the early 1990s, 100,000 women made up 3% of the Soviet Armed Forces.\nDuring the Second World War, the Soviet Union had a female military strength of over one million women who served as snipers, machine gunners, and tank crew members. Very few of these women, however, were ever promoted to officers.\n\nIn 1942 the Soviet Union formed three regiments of women combat pilots to fly night bombing missions over Germany, the 588th Night Bomber Regiment, later called the 46th Taman Guards Night Bomber Aviation Regiment. These women took part in regular harassment bombing against the Germans in Polikarpov Po-2 biplanes, and participated in the final onslaught against Berlin. The regiments, collectively known to the Germans as the \"Nachthexen\" (\"Night Witches\"), flew more than 24,000 sorties and won in total 23 Hero of the Soviet Union medals. Some of the most talented women pilots were assigned day fighter duties. \"Lily\" Litvak and Katya Budanova became fighter aces flying the Soviet Union's best fighter designs alongside men in day attacks. Both were killed in their aircraft. Meanwhile, in the ground combat role Lyudmila Pavlichenko, made 309 confirmed kills including 36 enemy snipers. Pavlichenko was one of the many female snipers of the Soviet Army.\n\nIn 1967, the Soviet Universal Military Duty Laws concluded that women offered the greater source of available combat soldiers during periods of large-scale mobilisation. Thus, several programs during the height of the cold war were set up to encourage women to enlist. Participation in military orientated youth programs and forced participation in the reserves for ex-servicewomen up to the age of 40 are some examples. Universities contained reservist officer training which accompanied a place in the reserves themselves.\n\nIn the Soviet Union civil universities, in addition to professional education, gave basic military training to the youth of both sexes. Many secondary schools in post-Soviet countries still have defense lessons, both for boys and girls.\n\nAlthough the Serbian combat forces were traditionally exclusively male (with exception of nurses and some other non-combat roles) there were some exceptions. Several women are known to have fought in the ranks in the Balkan Wars and the First World War, often by initially hiding their gender to work around the draft regulations. The most notable of them was Milunka Savić. In the Second World War Yugoslav partisan units accepted female volunteers as combatants as well as medical personnel. After the war the practice was abandoned, but was reintroduced recently with professionalisation of the army.\n\nIn Yugoslavia (including Serbia and other states), two million women were directly involved in non-combat support roles with Yugoslavia's partisans, and 100,000 served in the partisan army during World War II.\n\nIn the Military Articles of 1621, which organized the Swedish army, military men on all levels were explicitly allowed to bring their wives with them to war, as the wives were regarded to fill an important role as sutlers in the house hold organisation of the army: prostitutes, however, were banned. This regulation was kept until the Military Article of 1798, though the presence of women diminished after the end of the Great Northern War. In the Military Article of 1798, the only women allowed to accompany the army was the professional unmarried female sutlers, in Sweden named \"marketenterska\". Unofficially, however, there were females who served in the army posing as male the entire period, the most famous being Ulrika Eleonora Stålhammar.\n\nIn 1924, the Swedish Women's Voluntary Defence Service (Swedish: Riksförbundet Sveriges lottakårer, commonly known as Lottorna) was founded: it is an auxiliary defense organization of the Swedish Home Guard, a part of the Swedish Armed Forces.\n\nSince 1989 there are no gender restrictions in the Swedish military on access to military training or positions. They are allowed to serve in all parts of the military and in all positions, including combat.\n\nWhen Turkish history is examined, it is apparent that Turkish women have voluntarily taken tasks in the defence of their country, showing the same power and courage as men. Nene Hatun, whose monument has been erected in the city of Erzurum (Eastern Turkey) because of her gallant bravery during the Ottoman-Russian War, constitutes a very good example of this fact. Furthermore, the Independence War has taken its place in history with the unsurpassed heroism of Turkish women. Sabiha Gökçen was the first female combat pilot in the world, as well as the first Turkish female aviator. She was one of the eight adoptive children of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Throughout her career in the Turkish Air Force, Gökçen flew 22 different types of aircraft for more than 8,000 hours, 32 hours of which were active combat and bombardment missions. She was selected as the only female pilot for the poster of \"20 Greatest Aviators in History\" published by the United States Air Force in 1996.\n\nWomen personnel are being employed as officers in the Turkish Armed Forces today. The women officers serve together with the men under the same respective chains of command. The personnel policy regarding women in the Turkish Armed Forces is based on the principle of \"needing qualified women officers in suitable branches and ranks\" to keep pace with technological advancements in the 21st century. Women civilian personnel have been assigned to the headquarters staff, technical fields, and social services without sexual discrimination. Women officers serve in all branches except armour, infantry, and submarines. Assignments, promotions and training are considered on an equal basis with no gender bias.\n\nAs of the year 2005, the number of the female officers and NCOs in the Turkish Armed Forces is 1245.\n\nWomen may now join the British Armed forces in all roles except those whose \"primary duty is to close with and kill the enemy\": Infantry, Household Cavalry, Royal Armoured Corps, Royal Marines Commandos, RAF Regiment, Special Air Service and Special Boat Service. In addition medical reasons used to preclude service in the Royal Navy Submarine Service or as Mine Clearance Divers, but in May 2014 it was announced that three women had become the RN's first female submariners. They are however, permitted access to special force's support units, such as commando engineers and are cleared to join the Special Reconnaissance Regiment, a largely unknown branch of the United Kingdom Special Forces that does not bar women from joining.\n\nFemale personnel currently make up around 9% of the British armed forces. However, female combatants can be found throughout Britain’s military history.\n\nAn early example is Queen Boudica, who led warriors of the Iceni tribe against Roman forces occupying Britain around AD 62, her legacy being often quoted in support of arguments calling for the full opening up of the British Armed forces to women.\n\nIn the medieval period, Queens and noblewomen such as Ethelfleda of Mercia, Matilda of England, Isabella of France and Margaret of Anjou commanded armies in battle, although they did not fight themselves. Many women including Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine accompanied their husbands on Crusade. In the 16th century Mary, Queen of Scots, accompanied troops in several campaigns. Women continued to lead armies or organise the defense of castles in the absence of their male relatives until the close of the English Civil War. Charles I's consort, Henrietta Maria of France was the last English queen to command troops in battle in northern England in 1643.\n\nDuring the 1776 American War of Independence, it is estimated that over 5,000 women accompanied British forces. Many of these would have been the wives of high-ranking officers, with a large proportion being the wives of serving soldiers. While as much as possible women were left in the camp, they sometimes accompanied forces in their baggage trains serving as cooks or nurses, and were occasionally caught in combat and killed or taken prisoner. Similarly women accompanied men in ships of the Royal Navy, in combat being employed as powder monkeys or assisting surgeons.\n\nDuring World War I the British Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps was formed; Lieutenant-General H Lawson recommended using it in France in 1917. Sir Neville Macready, the Adjutant-General, supported the idea that women and men should be treated the same at the front. Women served in the British Army during World War One as cooks, medical staff and clerical staff, however women were not permitted to be officers, and there were many disputes over pay. In 1917 the Women's Royal Naval Service (WRNS) was formed, although then disbanded in 1919 It provided catering and administrative support, communications and electrician personnel.\n\nPrior to World War II, in 1938 the Auxiliary Territorial Service (ATS) was created, with 20,000 women serving in non-combat roles during the conflict as well as serving as military police. Some women took part in direct combat roles as part of mixed gender teams manning heavy anti-aircraft batteries and gun crews within Britain. Women members of the teams might sight and aim anti-aircraft guns and even give the command to fire, but the actual release of the trigger was always (officially at least) reserved for a male soldier. A number of women operated on active service in wartime Europe with special services, engaged in intelligence, sabotage and laison with local resistance groups. During the war, the First Aid Nursing Yeomanry was incorporated into the ATS. The WRNS was reformed at the outbreak of war in 1939, with an increased range of shore-based opportunities available.\n\nIn 1949 women were officially recognized as a permanent part of British Armed forces, although full combat roles were still available only to men. In this year, the Women's Royal Army Corps was created to replace the WAAC, and in 1950 the ranks were normalised with the ranks of men serving in the British Army.\n\nThe 1991 Gulf War marked the first deployment of British women in combat operations since 1945. Women were engaged in a broad range of support operations up to 8 km from the front line. In 1992 British Army units devoted only to women were disbanded, and women were distributed amongst the same units in which men served. During the 1990s an increasing number of roles were opened up to women including direct combat support roles in intelligence, artillery, engineering and signals. In 1991 seagoing opportunities were opened to WRNS personnel leading to the full integration of the WRNS with the Royal Navy in 1993. To date several female personnel have commanded small ships of the RN and a recently retired Commanding Officer of HM Naval Base, Clyde, Commodore Carolyn Stait, is a former WRNS Officer.\n\nThe seizure of Royal Navy sailor Faye Turney in 2007 by the naval forces of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard led to some media comment on the role of women and mothers in the armed forces.\n\nThe commander-in-chief of the British Armed Forces is a woman (Queen Elizabeth II) though her position is only nominal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
