{"id": "22656869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22656869", "title": "1981–82 Pittsburgh Penguins season", "text": "1981–82 Pittsburgh Penguins season\n\nThe 1981–82 Pittsburgh Penguins season was their 15th in the National Hockey League. The qualified for the playoffs for the fourth straight year, but lost in the opening round to the eventual Stanley Cup champion New York Islanders three games to two. This would be the Penguins last playoff appearance until 1989.\n\nThe Penguins lost in the division semi-final round (3-2) versus the New York Islanders.\n\n\nDenotes player spent time with another team before joining the Penguins. Stats reflect time with the Penguins only.\nDenotes player was traded mid-season. Stats reflect time with the Penguins only.\n\n\nThe Penguins were involved in the following transactions during the 1981–82 season:\n\nThe 1981 NHL Entry Draft was held on June 10, 1981 in Montreal, Quebec.\n\n"}
{"id": "15930479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15930479", "title": "2008 French Road Cycling Cup", "text": "2008 French Road Cycling Cup\n\nThe 2008 French Road Cycling Cup is the seventeenth edition of the French Road Cycling Cup. It started on February 24 with the Tour du Haut Var and finished on October 9 with Paris–Bourges. Jérôme Pineau of won the overall competition, despite not winning any of the races.\n\n"}
{"id": "50926261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50926261", "title": "2011–12 Bangladeshi cricket season", "text": "2011–12 Bangladeshi cricket season\n\nThe 2011–12 Bangladeshi cricket season is when the increase in the National Cricket League (NCL) championship teams from six to eight. Following creation of Rangpur Division in January 2010 as the country's seventh administrative region, the NCL in 2011–12 was expanded to eight teams with the introduction of the Rangpur team and the return of Dhaka Metropolis, although they had no settled home venue. Rajshahi Division won the championship title in the fourth consecutive season. The One Day League was formally terminated before the season began and the main List A limited overs competition since then is the Dhaka Premier Division, which began in 2013–14. The Bangladesh Premier League (BPL) was founded in 2011–12 season and Dhaka Gladiators were its first champions.\n\n\nThe West Indies toured Bangladesh in October 2011 and playing two Test matches, the West Indies winning the second, the first being a drawn game. West Indies played three limited overs internationals, winning the series 2–1. Bangladesh won a T20I by 3 wickets.\n\nPakistan toured from 29 November to 21 December 2011, playing one Twenty20 International (T20I), three One Day Internationals (ODIs) and two Test matches, Pakistan winning all matches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10293654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10293654", "title": "Bahamas Davis Cup team", "text": "Bahamas Davis Cup team\n\nThe Bahamas Davis Cup team represents the Bahamas in Davis Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Bahamas Lawn Tennis Association.\n\nThe Bahamas currently compete in the Americas Zone of Group II. They reached the World Group Play-offs in 1993.\n\nThe Bahamas competed in its first Davis Cup in 1989. Bahamian players previously competed on the Caribbean/West Indies team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57796710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57796710", "title": "Belarusian Rugby Federation", "text": "Belarusian Rugby Federation\n\nThe Belarusian Rugby Federation () is the governing body for rugby in Belarus. It oversees the various national teams and the development of the sport. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26787422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26787422", "title": "Bloudkova velikanka", "text": "Bloudkova velikanka\n\nBloudkova velikanka (also: \"Rožman/Bloudkova velikanka\", \"Old Bloudkova velikanka\", \"Large Rožman/Bloudek Hill\") is a large ski jumping hill in Planica, Slovenia, opened in 1934 by Joso Gorec's initiative. The hill was originally constructed by Ivan Rožman who invented the so-called \"snow cement\". The hill was originally named after Stanko Bloudek, but was renamed to \"Rožman/Bloudkova velikanka\" posthumously to honour Rožman. A year after opening, Bloudek became the main constructor, improving the hill until his death. In 1936, Sepp Bradl became the first man in history to jump over . Hill's axis and name are under national monument protection and cannot be changed. After almost a decade of inactivity, the hill was completely renovated and reopened in 2012. Right next to this one they built a brand new normal hill to replace the old demolished one.\n\nIn 1932, Joso Gorec, a key figure for the beginning of ski jumping in Planica, asked engineer Stanko Bloudek to construct a large hill. Bloudek drew plans for the K-80 hill, as the International Ski Federation did not allow any bigger hills at the time. Bloudek decided on the location and staked out the hill. However, at the same time, Ivan Rožman, a construction company owner and engineer drew plans for the K-90 hill. Gorec decided to build the bigger hill using Rožman's plans instead of Bloudek's plans, who was then left out.\n\nStarting the construction brought up some problems, as the local population from Rateče opposed to building the venue and did not want to sell the land where the hill was supposed to be situated on. They were eventually convinced and the construction lasted from October to December 1933.\n\nOn 4 February 1934 the hill, named the \"Bloudkova velikanka\" \"(Slovenian: Velika Rožman/Bloudkova skakalnica)\", was opened with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia National Championships. The winner was Franc Palme; with , he set the first two hill records and the national record at the same time. In March they organized the first international competition when Birger Ruud set the first world record in Planica with . Later, his brother Sigmund Ruud touched the ground at 94 metres, a world record distance.\n\nIn 1935, Bloudek took control over the hill as a constructor. From here he was the main engineer for renovating and enlarging the hill until his death.\n\nThe same year Rožman stepped out as an engineer in Planica, starting the argument on who was the original constructor and why the hill was not named after him. Rožman blamed Joso Gorec, who turned to Bloudek's side and named the hill after him, although Bloudek did not draw the original plans. For years, there was a public misconception that Bloudek was the original hill constructor while the original constructor was Ivan Rožman.\n\nOn 15 March 1936, Sepp Bradl became the first man in history to have officially jumped over one hundred metres, landing at which had to be displayed as 101 metres on the scoreboard due to lack of space. Two years later, Bradl again set a new world record with . \n\nIn 1939, Bloudek constructed the first simple 300-metre-long funicular with two parallel routes on a scree in Planica. It was on a scree on a way from Planica to Tamar Valley. As a result, Sigmund Ruud gave the hill name \"Mammoth Hill\" in his book \"Skispuren kruezen die Welt\" which was published in 1939.\n\nIn 1954, the hill was renovated as they built a new judging and television tower and a new profile of the hill. The hill was reopened and back in use for the Planica's Ski Flying week in March 1954.\n\nIn 1980, Bloudkova velikanka hosted the first FIS Ski Jumping World Cup event. The hill became a standard and regular host of World Cup events, exchanging with the ski flying hill Letalnica bratov Gorišek and normal hill up to 1998 when it stopped for a longer period of time. After that all events were held at the ski flying hill.\n\nThe hill was in use until 16 December 2001 when the upper part of concrete bows collapsed. In the same year, the last international competition on the old hill was held. For many years after the hill collapsed there were plans to renovate the hill. A decade later, in July 2011, they demolished inrun, judge tower and TV tower, but left \"German tower\" which is part of Slovenian culture heritage. The last construction point of the old hill was at K130 and the last hill size at HS 140.\n\nAs the Republic of Slovenia and the Planica Nordic Center signed a contract for complete renovation of the ski jumping hills, the renovation finally began. At the same location where the original large hill was standing, which is also part of Slovenian culture heritage, they rebuilt the hill at the hill size of 139 metres with the new profile, new inrun, and new judge and TV towers. Just next to the large hill they built a new normal hill with the hill size at 104 metres. Both hills were designed by the team of Slovenian architects Matej Blenkuš, Miloš Florijančič and Klemen Kobal. The hills were opened on 14 October 2012 with the national championships.\n\nThe first person who jumped on a new HS 139 hill was Slovenian V-jumper Aleš Hlebanja from Rateče. He got this honour because his grandmother was the first of many owners who sold private property around the hill to the Republic of Slovenia and activate other owners to do the same. Primož Peterka was honoured to jump as first on a new HS 104 hill. In 2014, they organized the World Cup events for the first time since 1998.\n\nBetween 1934 and 1948, a total of 13 official world records has been set at the hill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "945434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945434", "title": "Bolivia at the 2004 Summer Olympics", "text": "Bolivia at the 2004 Summer Olympics\n\nBolivia competed at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece from 13 to 29 August 2004.\n\nBolivian athletes have so far achieved qualifying standards in the following athletics events (up to a maximum of 3 athletes in each event at the 'A' Standard, and 1 at the 'B' Standard). \n\nBolivia qualified a female gymnast.\n\nBolivia has qualified a single judoka through a tripartite invitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2420257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2420257", "title": "British Knights", "text": "British Knights\n\nBritish Knights is a shoe brand founded in 1983 by Jack Schwartz Shoes Inc., based in New York City. In the 1980s, British Knights distinguished themselves as an inner-city and music driven brand, appealing to the predominantly male youth in urban communities.\n\nBritish Knights was launched in 1983 as a casual shoe brand. In 1985 they introduced their first sneaker collection and sales exploded. In an environment where brands kept the same style in their line for years, British Knights was one of the first brands to recognize that the sneaker business was more about fashion than performance. By introducing a new collection three to four times a year, it became popular among 15- to 24-year-old males in urban communities. The classic, “the shoe ain’t nothin’ without the BK button” became the brand’s mantra in reference to the diamond-shaped BK logo plate which was on every shoe.\n\nMarketed as a fashion brand vs. a performance brand, British Knights was one of the first brands to utilize hip hop artists as endorsers, enlisting Kool Moe Dee for the brands introduction to TV. “How Ya Like Me Now” was broadcast on the worldwide music channel MTV. The brand was also featured prominently in hip hop and dance music videos by artists such as Public Enemy, Technotronic and Beats International.\n\nIn 1990 British Knights embarked on its biggest marketing push when they signed musician MC Hammer to a full endorsement deal. The biggest star in the music industry at that time, the Hammer phenomenon appealed to a broad audience. British Knights sponsored his tour, did in-store events and contests, in addition to the traditional television, print and radio media campaigns. An anti-drug campaign also featured him in a British Knights sponsored television spot. Awareness of the brand increased tremendously and the brand crossed over to a more mainstream market.\n\nBritish Knights introduced Dymacel, their first technology shoe in 1991. The technology consisted of diamond-shaped green silicon cushioning embedded within a sole window. This was to effectively absorb shock by dispersing vertical impact energy into a horizonal plane while maximizing energy return. Dymacel maintains its memory after repeated compression.\n\nIn 1991, British Knights signed on their first professional athlete to endorse Dymacel - Derrick Coleman of the New Jersey Nets. Coleman was the number one draft pick in 1990, he won the Rookie of the Year Award in 1991 while playing for the Nets, and was chosen for the Dream Team II, which captured the gold medal at the World Championships in Toronto in 1994. He also played in the All-Star game that year. Coleman wore his BK Dymacel in all of these games, while appearing in TV, print and radio ads.\n\nIn 1993 NBA player Lloyd Daniels from the San Antonio Spurs was signed to endorse the British Knights “Vengeance” – which was part of the Outdoor Dymacel Collection. Daniels, known as “Sweet Pea”, was featured in a national TV spot.\n\n\nIn February 2014 British Knights re-launched with a series of collaborations. Along with its original owners Jack Schwartz Shoes Inc, the team behind this rebrand included designer and artist Darren Romanelli (“DRx”) who served as creative director and entrepreneur Scooter Braun of SB Projects, an entertainment and media company with ventures integrating music, film, television, technology and philanthropy.\n\nBritish Knights took on a new slogan, \"Artists are the new athletes.\" Tapping into the artistic minds from around the world, this new era of British Knights encompassed designs meant to inspire and motivate, while looking back on its legacy and pushing it into the future. Romanelli designed four new styles of the shoe that combined performance-level materials with streetwear aesthetics. Features included earth tone midtops with ribbed brown leather paneling and black and white hi-tops that incorporate the British flag.\n\nThe first designs were unveiled on February 17, 2014 at Agenda in Las Vegas before officially going on sale March 15, 2014 at high-end retailers.\n\nIn 1998, Jack Schwartz Shoes Inc. sold the British Knights trademarks in many territories to a European company that continued manufacturing British Knights footwear for Europe and South America. British Knights EU is not connected to the original American brand. British Knights EU belongs to the Dutch company Achten Fashion Group. \n\nIn 2014, Jack Schwartz Shoes Inc. incorporated a new company, British Knights N.A (North America) and together with the help of some partners in the music and entertainment world, they revived the brand. British Knights N.A is run out of the Jack Schwartz Shoes Inc. office in New York City by the original family that launched the brand back in the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "2771237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2771237", "title": "Bud Walton Arena", "text": "Bud Walton Arena\n\nBud Walton Arena (also known as the Basketball Palace of Mid-America) is the home to the men's and women's basketball teams of the University of Arkansas, known as the Razorbacks. It is located on the campus of the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, Arkansas and has a seating capacity of 19,368, which is the fifth largest for an on-campus arena in the United States.\n\nThe arena features Bud Walton Arena Razorback Sports Museum on the ground level about the history of Razorback basketball, track and field, baseball, tennis and golf.\n\nThe arena is named after James \"Bud\" Walton, co-founder of Walmart, who donated a large portion of the funds needed to build the arena. Walton purportedly gave 15 million, or around half of the construction cost. Construction of the arena took only 18 months, a short time considering the size of the undertaking.\n\nWhen it was built, it was touted as a larger version of Barnhill Arena, the team's former home. In hopes of recreating the formidable home-court advantage the Razorbacks enjoyed at Barnhill, architect Rosser International built an arena that, as it put it, had \"more seats in less space than in any other facility of the same type anywhere in the world.\"\n\nThe arena has been the home to the Razorbacks since November 1993; the men's team won the national championship in the arena's first season of operation. The basketball team's former home, Barnhill Arena was renovated into a volleyball-specific facility and now houses the Razorback women volleyball team.\n\nIn its early years, Nolan Richardson's teams frequently attracted standing-room-only crowds of over 20,000.\n\nThe past few years have brought a number of enhancements and improvements to the arena. In 2004, a new custom scoreboard was debuted which is 24 feet, three inches wide by 22 feet tall, features four video screens, each 12 feet, six inches wide by eight feet, 10 inches tall. (Also, there is an LED ring at the top that is used to display game statistics.) In 2005, the locker rooms were remodeled, and a lounge and meeting area were added. \nPrior to the 2008–09 season, the University of Arkansas expanded the arena by eight luxury suites, raising the total to 47. In addition, courtside seating was added, the student section was reconfigured, and press seating was moved to the East side of the arena behind the basket. LED ribbon boards were also installed around the ring between the upper and lower decks and were first used during Arkansas's upset of #4 Oklahoma on December 30, 2008. The addition of these improvements expanded seating to 19,368.\nPrior to the 2013-14 season, the University of Arkansas, again, reconfigured press seating to the southeast corner of the bottom bowl, reserving its existing place for an expanded student section, commonly referred to as \"The Trough.\"\n\nAttendance Record: 20,320 vs. Kentucky January 26, 1997\n\nAttendance Chart (men) for every year Bud Walton Arena has been in operation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56672969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56672969", "title": "Bullpen car", "text": "Bullpen car\n\nThe bullpen car, also known as a bullpen cart, is used in professional baseball to bring relief pitchers into the game from the bullpen to the pitcher's mound during a pitching change. Bullpen cars were used in Major League Baseball from 1950 through 1995, and returned to use in 2018. They have been used in Nippon Professional Baseball since the 1980s.\n\nThe first bullpen car introduced in Major League Baseball (MLB) was \"a little red auto\" used by the Cleveland Indians in 1950 at the large Cleveland Municipal Stadium. The Chicago White Sox followed suit in 1951, becoming the first team to transport the pitcher from the bullpen all the way to the pitcher's mound. The White Sox discontinued the practice in 1955 after fans continued throwing garbage at the car. In 1959, the Milwaukee Braves began to use a (locally-produced) Harley-Davidson Topper with a sidecar as a bullpen car.\nIn 1963, the Los Angeles Angels became the first team to use a golf cart as their bullpen car. The New York Mets introduced a bullpen car based on a golf cart with an oversized team hat in 1967. The New York Yankees began using a Datsun 1200 painted with pinstripes in 1972. Rats chewed through the Datsun's cables, and the team switched to a Toyota Celica in 1982. The White Sox introduced a bullpen car built off of a Chrysler LeBaron in 1981, but it was also unpopular with pitchers, who refused to ride in it, and fans, who threw garbage at it.\n\nThe Seattle Mariners began using a version designed to look like a tugboat in 1982, called the \"M.S. Relief\". On Opening Day of the 1982 season, the Mariners' Bill Caudill hid the keys to the bullpen car, causing a delay in the start of the game. Caudill organized a boycott of the tugboat, saying that it \"should be fined as an embarrassment to the team\". No Mariners player ever rode in the tugboat, and it was removed from use less than a week later. A bullpen car appeared in the 1989 baseball movie \"Major League\". Pitchers disliked the bullpen cars, leading to them being phased out. The last MLB team to use a bullpen car was Milwaukee, which phased out their motorcycle in 1995.\n\nThe bullpen car remains in use in Japanese baseball. Most of them are convertibles so that fans can see the players inside, including many one-offs provided to the teams by the manufacturer. In the 1980s, the Yokohama DeNA BayStars of Nippon Professional Baseball introduced a bullpen car, a one-off Datsun Bluebird (910) convertible. It was the first of a few bullpen cars provided by Nissan to their hometown team. It would be followed by a Be-1 and S-Cargo in the 90s. In 2017, the BayStars began using the Nissan Leaf, while Yasuaki Yamasaki used a Toyota MR-S to enter games. The Tokyo Yakult Swallows also use a custom Nissan, a one-off Y34 Cedric roadster. The Hanshin Tigers currently use a modified smart FourTwo convertible. \n\nThe Sugar Land Skeeters of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, an independent baseball league, introduced a bullpen car in 2012.\n\nWith an increasing focus on speeding up the pace of play of MLB games, MLB had a committee discuss bringing back the bullpen car in 2015. The Arizona Diamondbacks announced they would introduce their first bullpen car prior to the 2018 season. While the car was available on Opening Day, March 29, 2018, the first reliever to make use of it was Collin McHugh on May 5, 2018, for a sixth-inning relief role in the Diamondbacks' 18th home game of the season. The Detroit Tigers were the second team to introduce a bullpen car, on April 13, 2018, and the Washington Nationals became the third team to introduce one, on August 17, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "4641468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4641468", "title": "CHL Rookie of the Year", "text": "CHL Rookie of the Year\n\nThe CHL Rookie of the Year Award is given out annually to the top rookie in the Canadian Hockey League. It is chosen from the winners of; the Emms Family Award (OHL Rookie of the Year), the Jim Piggott Memorial Trophy (WHL Rookie of the Year), and the RDS Cup (QMJHL Rookie of the Year).\n\nList of winners of the CHL Rookie of the Year Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2077208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077208", "title": "Canterbury Park Racecourse", "text": "Canterbury Park Racecourse\n\nCanterbury Park Racecourse is a racecourse for horse racing in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It is located 11 km (7 mi) from the Sydney Central Business District, in King Street in the suburb of Canterbury, adjacent to Canterbury railway station. The racecourse is operated by the Australian Turf Club.\n\nThe first horse racing in Canterbury was in 1852 when Cornelius Proud cleared part of his property for use as a racecourse, this was used regularly by locals. In 1871, after a few years with no race meetings being held, Frederick Clissold and Thomas Austen Davis held a race meeting on land that had been leased by Davis close to the existing racecourse. In 1884 the site was leased as the headquarters of Canterbury Park Race Club. A racetrack, 700 person grandstand and recreational park was constructed and held its first meeting on the 19th January 1884. In 1886, 53 acres of the leased land was purchased by Davis for use by the club.\n\nUp until World War I there was a zoo located on site that housed animals such as Kangaroos, Wallabies, Emus, Brolgas, Curlews, Pheasants and Kookaburras.\n\nThe Sydney Turf Club (STC) acquired the racecourse and held its first meeting in January 1945. The STC held the racecourse until 2011 when the Sydney Turf Club and Australian Jockey Club merged to become the Australian Turf Club. The Australian Turf Club are the current owners and operators of Canterbury Park Racecourse.\n\n</nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "32197067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32197067", "title": "Centre d'Excellence Sports Rousseau", "text": "Centre d'Excellence Sports Rousseau\n\nThe Centre d'Excellence Sports Rousseau is a 3,100 capacity multi-purpose arena in Boisbriand, Quebec, Canada. It is home to the Blainville-Boisbriand Armada ice hockey club in the QMJHL, who were previously known as the Montreal Junior Hockey Club.\n\nThe area has ice surface dimensions available:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "982257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=982257", "title": "Challenge International de Tourisme 1930", "text": "Challenge International de Tourisme 1930\n\nThe International Touring Competition in 1930 () was the second FAI international touring aircraft contest, that took place between July 18 and August 8, 1930 in Berlin, Germany. Four Challenges, from 1929 to 1934, were major aviation events in pre-war Europe.\nGermany organized the contest, because the German pilot Fritz Morzik won the previous contest in 1929. The regulation based upon the FAI rules, but details were worked out by the German Aero Club. The international Sports Committee was headed by the German Gerd von Hoeppner. 98 crews applied, but eventually 60 aircraft entered the Challenge in 1930, from six countries: Germany (30 crews), Poland (12 crews), United Kingdom (7 crews), France (6 crews), Spain (3 crews) and the Swiss (2 crews). In the British team there was one Canadian, and in the French team – one Belgian. It was the first major international event in which the Polish aviation took part, with second most numerous team in addition, equipped with own design aircraft. This time, Italy nor Czechoslovakia did not participate.\n\nIn the German team there was first of all Fritz Morzik – a winner of the Challenge 1929. Among the British team, there were pilots: Captain Hubert Broad (2nd place in 1929), the Canadian John Carberry (3rd place in 1929) and two women: Winifred Spooner and Lady Mary Bailey. In the Spanish team, there was prince Antonio de Habsburgo-Borbón. Many other known aviators of that time took part in the contest as well.\n\nThe contest was open on July 18, 1930, at Berlin-Staaken airfield. It consisted of two parts: a circuit over Europe and technical trials. Since one of the aims of the Challenge was to generate a progress in aircraft designing, it was not only pilots' competition, but technical trials also included a construction evaluation, to build more advanced and reliable touring planes. All planes flew with two-men crews, pilot and passenger or mechanic (apart from the Swiss Charles Kolp, who took two passengers, including one woman, into his Klemm VL.25).\n\nMost of the aircraft in the contest were popular sport planes of the late 1920s, that took part in the previous contest as well, like de Havilland Gipsy Moth DH-60G, which was the main aircraft of the British and Spanish teams. These aircraft had mostly open cabs, and were built in mostly in low-wing (29) or high-wing (17) layout, only 13 were biplanes (and 1 mid-wing). Only five were of all-metal construction, most were all-wooden. On contrary to a previous contest, there appeared also some special aircraft, better suited to meet the Challenge demands. First of all, they were German BFW M.23c and Klemm L 25E, being new variants of successful machines of 1929 – wooden low-wing monoplanes with closed canopy, belonging to lighter category, yet fitted with powerful Argus engines, having better chance in technical trials. All aircraft in the contest had fixed conventional landing gear and had no wing mechanization (slats or flaps) yet.\n\nAircraft participating were BFW M.23c (10), BFW M.23b (1), Klemm L.25 (4), Klemm L.25E (3), Klemm L 26 (2), Klemm VL 25 (1), Junkers A50 (3), Arado L II (4), Albatros L 100 (1), Albatros L 101 (1), Darmstadt D-18 (1), de Havilland DH.60G Gipsy Moth (6), Avro Avian (1), Spartan Arrow (1), Monocoupe 110 (1), RWD-2 (3), RWD-4 (3), PZL.5 (2), PWS-50 (1), PWS-51 (1), PWS-52 (1), PWS-8 (1), Caudron C.193 (3), Caudron C.232 (1), Peyret-Mauboussin PM XI (1), Saint Hubert G1 (1), Breda Ba.15S (1), CASA C-1 (1). \n\n20 aircraft were assigned to the Class II with net weight up to 322 kg (300 kg plus 15%), the remaining 40 to the Class I with net weight up to 460 kg (400 kg plus 15%). Class II aircraft were 11 German BFW M.23s and 5 Klemm L.25s and L.25E's (apart from two L.25 IVa), 3 Polish RWD-2s and one French PM XI. The classes had influence on awarding points for cruise speed and fuel consumption only.\n\nThe aircraft had alphanumerical starting numbers, the German from a range: A2-A9, B3-B9, C1-C9, D1-D8, E1-E9, F1-F2, British: K1-K8, French: L1-L3, M1-M6, Polish: O1-O9, P1-P5, Swiss: S1-S2, Spanish: T1-T7 (numbers were painted in a circle, with inscription: \"Challenge International\" and \"1930\").\n\nThe contest in 1930 was the only \"Challenge\", in which a rally was the opening phase. It was a 7560 km circuit over Europe, with compulsory stops at: Berlin – Braunschweig – Frankfurt – Reims – Saint-Inglevert – Bristol – London – Saint-Inglevert – Paris – Poitiers – Pau – Zaragoza – Madrid – Seville – Zaragoza – Barcelona – Nimes – Lyon – Lausanne – Bern – Munich – Vienna – Prague – Breslau (Wrocław) – Poznań – Warsaw – Königsberg (Kaliningrad) – Danzig (Gdańsk) – Berlin. Distances ranged from 77.5 km (Lausanne – Bern) to 410 km (Danzig – Berlin). In spite of attempts of many pilots at being the first man home, it was not a race, but rather a reliability test. A regularity of flights was the most important factor, the second was a cruise speed (minimal cruise speed had to be 80 km/h for Class I aircraft or 60 km/h for lighter Class II aircraft. Cruise speeds above 175/155 km/h respectively did not give extra points). The average speed was judged on flying time, so a competitor had to have his log book signed as soon after landing as possible. A competitor was given 75 points for regularity, which were mulcted for spending nights off the control airfield or not covering any stage in a day. One night outside the control or arrival after the official closing time (8 p.m.) costed 15 points, two nights – 45 points, and three failures to reach the control caused a disqualification. Also, for failing to fly any stage in a day, a competitor would lose 10 points, and for the second time – another 20 points. The original time limit for the return to Berlin was 4 p.m. on July 31, but it got extended later for some crews, due to bad weather in Pau. Apart from 75 points for regularity, up to 195 points could be gained for a high cruise speed. Comparing with 1929 competition, the rally could bring only 54% of maximum number of points (in 1929 – 72%), what meant more stress on technical trials.\nThe crews took off between 9 and 9.59 AM on Sunday, July 20, from Berlin-Tempelhof. Despite a poor weather, on the first day, fifteen crews reached Saint-Inglevert near Calais, 1058 km away (among them, 6 British crews, 4 French, 3 Polish and only 2 German). One Spanish and one Polish crew damaged aircraft (CASA C-1 and PWS-52) and had to withdraw, the other Pole from the fastest group Tadeusz Karpiński (RWD-4) got ill from appendicitis. On July 21 the weather enabled flying only about mid-day, but then most crews flew over the English Channel, and the fastest 23 planes managed to return to France. Three British and three French crews reached Paris that day, flying 843,5 km. One French crew destroyed the plane during forced landing (PM XI), several other planes got damaged on that or previous day, but could be repaired.\n\nOn July 22 – the third day of the rally, the fastest pilots reached Madrid, 3019 km from the start. They were five British crews: Hubert Broad, Alan Butler (both DH-60G), Sidney Thorn (Avro Avian), John Carberry (Monocoupe 110) and H. Andrews (receiving penalty points for landing after closure), three Germans (Fritz Morzik, Willy Polte – both BFW M.23c, Reinhold Poss – Klemm L.25E) and two Frenchmen (François Arrachart, Maurice Finat – both C.193s). Four more aircraft, including Prince de Habsburgo-Borbon and Georg Pasewaldt, managed to fly to Zaragoza over the Pyrenees, but the French crews of Cornez (C.193) and MacMahon (C.232) crashed their aircraft, while trying to fly farther. The rest was spread out on the whole track, the slowest pilots being only 800–1000 km away from Berlin. Five crews dropped out on that day – apart from the mentioned ones, also one German and Spanish crew damaged their aircraft during flight to Pau. Another German pilot von Oertzen withdrew, when his passenger von Redern was killed by a propeller of their Albatros L.100 in London.\n\nTwelve fastest crews were the lucky ones to get to Spain, because on July 23 and 24, the whole rest of crews were grounded in Pau due to bad weather over the Pyrenees. Lady Bailey was the last to try to fly to Zaragoza, but she was forced to return to Pau. Due to flight prohibition, there were no penalties for not flying farther, and the return time limit was extended by 24 or 48 hours, depending on time when the crew arrived at Pau. Five crews reached Barcelona on the 23rd, and Lausanne on the next day. On July 25, the weather improved and the rest of crews was allowed to fly to Zaragoza. Meanwhile, 4 fastest pilots: Hubert Broad, Sidney Thorn, Alan Butler and Reinhold Poss, reached Breslau, and Fritz Morzik – Prague. Four crews dropped out that day, among them the best Polish pilot Franciszek Żwirko, flying RWD-4 (due to engine failure), also two German and the only Belgian crew of Jacques Maus (St. Hubert G.1).\nOn July 26, four crews reached Warsaw (Poss, Broad, Thorn and Prince de Habsburgo-Borbon). The fastest of crews, that had been halted by the weather, reached Bern (the Pole Jerzy Bajan and two Germans Aichele and Dinort), being 700 km behind last crews of the first group, resting in Viena. On that day two German crewmen Erich Offermann and E. Jerzembski (BFW M.23c) were killed in a crash landing in Lyon, hitting an aerial mast, while the other German crew of Rudolf Neininger (Darmstadt D-18) fell into the Gulf of Lyon, but were salvaged by a passing ship. \nOn July 27 the first pilots finished in Berlin. The first came Hubert Broad, then Sidney Thorn followed closely by Reinhold Poss. In an hour, there flew also Fritz Morzik, Maurice Finat, prince Antonio de Habsburgo-Borbon, Georg Pasewaldt, H. Andrews and A.S. Butler. The fastest on the whole track was Alan Butler (DH-60G – average speed 179 km/h), but due to a propeller exchange in Poznań, he was disqualified and finished the rally off the contest. The fastest of qualified crews and the only one to gain full points, was Hubert Broad (176 km/h). On that day, 35 crews were still on the track. On July 28 seven crews reached Berlin (Willy Polte, Oskar Dinort, Winifred Spooner, Mary Bailey, John Carberry, François Arrachart, Stanisław Płonczyński), on July 29 – 9 more (among others, Theo Osterkamp, Jerzy Bajan, Johann Risztics, Robert Lusser, Oskar Notz), and the rest – on next days. The last crews finished the rally on August 1. Some crews dropped out or were disqualified in these last days as well.\n\nThe circuit over Europe appeared to be quite difficult for aircraft and pilots. Only 36 crews out of 60 finished in time. Further 6 crews completed the circuit in spite of being disqualified due to time infringement or propeller repairs, in case of not carrying a spare propeller. Among those, who dropped out, were 9 German crews (3 of them completed the circuit), 8 Polish (3 completed the circuit), 4 French, 2 Spanish and 1 British (completed the circuit). After the rally, a leader in the general classification was Hubert Broad (DH-60G, 270 points), behind him: John Carberry (Monocoupe, 268 pts), Reinhold Poss (Klemm L.25E, 264 pts), fourth was Fritz Morzik (BFW M.23c, 263 pts). The fastest German pilot was Dietrich von Massenbach (151 km/h), but he lost 10 points for regularity.\n\nTop results of the rally:. \n\nNote, that lighter aircraft, like Klemm L.25, BFW M.23, RWD-2 (below 322 kg empty weight), were in the Category II, with lower cruise speed demands.\n\nThe first was a trial of quick wings' folding, which was a feature to save place in hangars. The quickest were the crews flying DH-60s (Hubert Broad's crew folded and unfolded wings in mere 48 sec), awarded with 19 points. Crews of the German BFW M.23c scored 17-18 pts, of the Klemm L.25E – 16-17 (F. Morzik – 18 pts, O. Notz and W. Polte – 17 pts, R. Poss – 16 pts).\nJohn Carberry's Monocoupe, the Polish RWD's and the Avro Avian lost a number of points, not having folding or dismounting wings at all.\n\nThe next was quick engine starting test, in which equipping with a starter was extra awarded. The best Klemm L.25Ia of Theo Osterkamp, with Salmson AD.9 engine, earned 11 points. The British aircraft were handicapped by lack of starters, and the best crews – Miss Spooner and Lady Bailey, got 6 points, while H. Broad got 4 points. On the other hand, F. Morzik and R. Poss got only 7 points. On August 3 there was a fuel consumption trial on a 304 km distance. The best in fuel consumption were light RWD-2s, then German Klemms and BFWs, but 17 aircraft scored maximum of 30 pts and point differences between most of other aircraft were not big. The German Walter Spengler (Klemm L.25) was disqualified for not carrying his spare propeller aboard during this trial. Hubert Broad was still the leader, but F. Morzik was only one point behind.\n\nOn August 4 there took place a technical evaluation of competing planes' construction. Since it was a touring plane contest, such features, like comfortable cabs, side-by-side seats, rich set of controls, twin controls, safety devices (anti-fire devices and places for parachutes and water safety equipment) were also awarded. In a technical evaluation, a maximum of 104 points could be won, of a total of 230 points for technical part. Most important feature was a comfortable cab (up to 42 points). Most points was given to the American Monocoupe of John Carberry (74 pts), then to three German Junkers A50s (67-69 pts), then Breda Ba.15S and Arado L IIa (65 pts). 62 points were given to Klemm L.25E of Reinhold Poss, the same to Polish RWD-4 of Jerzy Bajan. DH-60G's of Hubert Broad and Winifred Spooner were awarded only with 56 pts, while the BFW M.23c of Fritz Morzik with 54 pts. The worst was evaluation of Hans Böhning's BFW M.23b, with 39 pts (a winning type of the previous Challenge), the second worst was Sidney Thorn's Avro Avian – 43 pts.\n\nAdditionally, in a meantime, the sports commission evaluated possibilities of dismantling the aircraft for transport (the points were added to results of wings' folding and unfolding). The German crews, flying BFW M.23c, along with F. Morzik, received additional 6 points, and Klemms L.25E, along with Poss and Notz – 3 points. No points were given to the British, Polish or French aircraft.\n\nAfter these trials, leaders in a classification became the Germans: Reinhold Poss (382 pts), Oskar Notz (380 pts), Fritz Morzik (378 pts), then John Carberry (377 pts), Hubert Broad (375 pts) and Winifred Spooner (370 pts). Last trials however brought some changes to this classification.\n\nFrom evening August 5 until August 7 there were carried short take-off and landing trials. Short take-off trial demanded flying over an 8.5m-high gate, which consisted of two masts with a stretched tape. Each crew had two training attempts and two trials. The German pilot Ernst Krüger was the best, starting from the lowest distance of 125.5 m, then Fritz Morzik (126.4 m) – both flying the BFW M.23c, and awarded with 30 pts. Next places were occupied also by the Germans, the sixth was Winifred Spooner flying DH-60 (142 m – 25 pts). Hubert Broad was given only 12 points (198.4 m), and John Carberry – 21 points (153.7 m).\n\nThe last was a short landing trial, from above an 8.5m-high gate. The best result, 127.3 m (30 pts), was made by the German Theo Osterkamp, flying older model of Klemm L.25 Ia, then Friedrich Siebel (Klemm L.26, 25 pts). The third was Winifred Spooner (21 pts); Fritz Morzik and Reinhold Poss had the 5th and 6th result respectively. Again Hubert Broad's result was only 8 points, and John Carberry's – 7 points. In both last trials, the Polish and French aircraft performed poorly as well.\n\nTo sum up technical trials part: Hubert Broad's advantage over other competitors was decreasing in following trials, then he lost several places after the aircraft evaluation and wings' folding tests. After poor take-off and landing results, he occupied the 8th position eventually. Due to lack of folding wings and engine starter, John Carberry fell from the 2nd to 11th position, only to regain this position thanks to best aircraft evaluation. However, mediocre take-off and landing results gave him the 6th place overall. Technical part saw a duel between Reinhold Poss and Fritz Morzik, occupying the 3rd and 4th places respectively after the circuit part. Poss took a lead, while Morzik fell to the 5th position after the aircraft evaluation, but Morzik's superb take-off and landing made him a winner, while Poss took the 2nd place. Oskar Notz and Winifred Spooner both performed very well, improving their positions by three places (from the 7th and 8th place respectively), while Willy Polte improved it only by one step (from the 6th position). Winifred Spooner performed good take-off and landing as the only British competitor and the only flying DH.60. Other competitors, who managed to improve their positions much in this part, in spite of flying older aircraft, were Theo Osterkamp (from the 16th to 11th place), Robert Lusser (from the 18th to 14th place) and Friedrich Siebel (from 25th to 18th place). Among the competitors, who lost most position, were Edward Więckowski (from 15th to 21st place), S. Thorn and A. Gothe.\n\nAfter all trials, on August 8 there was a closing ceremony. The first three places were occupied by the Germans, flying specially developed variants of sports aircraft, the winner being Fritz Morzik again. On the fourth place was Miss Winifred Spooner, who managed to improve her position since the rally part, thanks to skills in technical trials, which were not favourable for the British aircraft.\n\nOnly 35 crews of 60 completed the contest, among them 20 German, 6 British, 4 Polish, 2 Swiss, 2 French, 1 Spanish:\n\nThe 1st place was awarded with 100,000 French francs, the 2nd place with 50,000 FRF, the 3rd place with 25,000 FRF, the 4th place with 15,000 FRF, from 5th to 20th place – with 10,000 FRF.\n\nDue to the German victory, the next Challenge 1932 was organized in Germany as well. The next Challenge, due to regulations' changes, turned out to be more difficult contest. For 1932 contest, most countries developed advanced sport aircraft, with high technical performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "34253452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34253452", "title": "Elimination from possibility of reaching postseason", "text": "Elimination from possibility of reaching postseason\n\nElimination from possibility of reaching postseason, or being eliminated from playoff contention, refers to when the record of a team in a sports league has fallen so low that it is mathematically impossible for the team to qualify for the postseason, even if they win all their remaining games and the team(s) they are trailing lose all their remaining games. This occurs when the number of wins paired with losses of higher-ranking teams in the league or division needed in order to reach first place in the division or a wild card spot (where applicable) exceeds the remaining number of games to be played.\n\nThe concept of \"being eliminated from possibility of reaching the post-season\" is applicable to sports leagues and programs where qualifying requires a first-place finish or at-large bid (i.e., a \"wild card\" spot). It does not apply to certain sports leagues, often (but not always) for some high school and college-level sports where all teams participate in the playoffs or conference tournament, regardless of record. It also does not strictly apply to those sports that do not have a postseason or whose postseason criteria are too subjective to determine until the selectors make their decisions (this is especially true in American college sports, where teams in the five most lucrative and reputed athletic conferences are regularly awarded invitational bids to postseason tournaments even if they would otherwise have been eliminated had they been in a mid-major conference).\n\nWhen a sports season is reaching its conclusion, ranking watchers, such as the media, keep track of which teams have clinched divisions and playoff berths, and what teams close to this point must accomplish in order to achieve this ahead of the season's conclusion. Often, a team that has won a championship (such as a conference or divisional championship) is automatically granted a postseason berth, regardless of record, and there are still teams remaining in contention for one or more \"wild card\" or \"at-large\" playoff berths. At the same time, the poorer performing teams face the prospect of elimination before and sometimes long before the season is over. Elimination occurs when, regardless of the outcomes of all unplayed games on the league schedule, the eliminated team is unable to qualify for advancement to the playoffs. In exceptional cases, such as forfeits against a leading team, an \"eliminated\" team may be chosen to advance in their stead.\n\nThe term \"elimination\" when used in this sense differs from elimination when used in the postseason. In the postseason, a team is said to be \"eliminated\" when it is defeated by another team it is playing in a round of the postseason, thereby ending the team's season. But a team eliminated during the regular season continues to play the remaining games on its schedule as a lame duck. There may still be some value to the team in playing these games. (In both cases, elimination prevents the team from further pursuing the league championship.)\n\nIn the early days of organized sports, clubs were essentially gate-driven enterprises that depended on ticket sales for most of their revenue. Elimination from contention to reach the postseason (or, if there was no postseason, to win the league championship) often served to seriously diminish interest in the team's remaining schedule from their fan base. \n\nCompounding this issue was that sports leagues in this era generally operated on the principle that a visiting team was entitled to a percentage of the gate receipts. If this cut was insufficient to meet the costs of making the trip, the visiting team would often be reluctant to travel, let alone play, especially if they were also out of championship contention. \n\nOften, especially in the early days of baseball, team owners deemed it more profitable to forfeit scheduled league games in order to play more lucrative exhibition contests. \n\nThe establishment of the National League of Professional Baseball Clubs in 1876 was the first serious effort to eliminate this practice, as the NL adhered to a strictly-enforced policy of expelling teams that refused to honor scheduling commitments. Further to this, in the early days of the NL, the league had (and often enforced) a policy of moving games to an opponent's stadium in the event that the paid attendance fell to the point where visiting teams would be left unable to meet their expenses to make the trip.\n\nThe most notorious case of this came in 1899, when the Cleveland Spiders recorded the worst season in Major League Baseball history. At the time, games moved to opponents' stadiums were recorded as road games, and with paid attendances in Cleveland being anemic, the Spiders had 35 of their 77 home games moved. They finished with 101 road losses, a record that cannot be broken under modern MLB scheduling rules, and the Spiders folded after the 1899 season.\n\nWhile a team that has been officially eliminated must still play its remaining games, the team's behavior may differ from one that is striving for the postseason or has already clinched the playoffs. And among those \"eliminated\" teams, the team's behavior will vary.\n\nOftentimes a team would be eliminated from clinching a division title, home field advantage or other postseason advantages but the wildcard or lower seeded spot might still up for grabs thus some teams may play with an effort to win in order to choose its first round opponents.\n\nWhen the team is eliminated entirely from postseason contention it does not need to worry about winning to qualify for the postseason, the urgency to win may be lower. As a result, coaches may give playing time to backup and other lesser players who would not be used when a win is urgent, thereby giving them some real-game experience in an attempt to develop them. This is especially true at the high school and college levels, especially if a coach sees a number of players that are \"promising.\" Former starters (such as seniors on a high school or college team) will often still be asked to play a role in helping develop their younger teammates, but their roles may be different than before. Additionally, a team may take greater risks during the remaining games in order for players to master new skills or try plays a coaching staff believes will help them win in the future. And if a team has many younger players the coaching staff will sometimes play different combinations of players to see which ones work best together, another building block for future seasons.\n\nOften, an eliminated team will now have the opportunity to play the role of spoiler – that is, possibly eliminate one or more teams from contention that had a chance to make the playoffs (especially if they were \"on the bubble,\" or holding one of the lowest qualifying positions while still in contention and, as a result, their own qualification depends on the outcomes of other games and/or other teams' performances) or – if the opponent is in the playoffs, cause them to get a lower seed in the elimination tournament and/or lose home field advantage they had already provisionally secured.\n\nPride and opportunity also play into eliminated teams still striving to achieve victory on multiple occasions. These teams often want to go down swinging – that is, play their best even if there isn't a realistic chance they can defeat, much less compete with, future opponents. Sometimes, teams will still have to play an opponent they have a good chance of defeating, even if the opponent has made the playoffs: The teams may match up well on the field and have comparable playing ability, despite a disparity in win-loss records; the other team has players who are unavailable (starters are resting, key players are injured or suspended, etc.); or the opponent is from a lower division and, even with the opponent's excellent win-loss record, the team with the losing record can rather easily outmatch the opponent and, although with some work, readily achieve victory. For cases such as a divisional or geographical rivalry, a losing team nearly always puts in effort against their rival as it would be considered bad form by the fans of either team, along with the players and outside observers to not play with a full effort against a team which is considered the rival most identified with by a team.\n\nOther reasons eliminated teams still try hard to win include achieving an improvement over the previous year's record, attempting to finish the season with a winning record (especially if winning the final game is needed to achieve that goal), or the team wants to avoid the stigma of a last place finish or worse, if they have yet to win, a winless season. For teams in sports that have been eliminated from a wild-card berth but qualifying is still possible by winning a conference tournament, the objective might be to win as many games as possible to try to earn as high of a seed as possible for the conference tournament, thereby increasing their chances of making the playoffs after all.\n\nTeams that operate as for-profit operations may still be compelled to put a competitive product on display, to ensure fans continue to attend the games and purchase tickets. This is less of an issue at the major professional levels, where a greater portion of revenue comes from television rights fees that are locked into contracts years in advance. In league systems that operate using promotion and relegation, even if a team may be eliminated from a postseason tournament, it may have to continue to play at a competitive level to avoid being relegated to a lower league (and thus lose revenue).\n\nIn some cases, a team with a bad losing record may attempt to achieve the worst record in the league in order to attain a high draft pick. This is sometimes referred to as \"tanking\" the remainder of the season, and is sometimes done by putting players on the field that are too young and/or inexperienced to realistically be expected to win many games. Conversely, if the team is planning on making changes to its roster or coaching staff as a result of the poor performance, it may do so during this time in order to give new players and coaches some experience and try to keep players – those who may be sought by other teams – with their team.\n\nStill, in some cases, a team with a losing record – or one that has yet to win – may not even try to win and/or play very poorly in the remainder of their games; in other words, they \"quit,\" even against other teams that are eliminated and/or have performed exceptionally poorly during the season. Here, the philosophy might be that the current season is best forgotten once concluded, and that with changes (sometimes wholesale) during the offseason things will be better in the future. Often, these cases arise when:\n\n\nThe National Hockey League and National Basketball Association both impose a draft lottery to discourage teams from deliberately tanking the rest of their season for a higher draft pick. The injection of random luck into the draft process can have the unintended consequence of depriving a team that is legitimately deprived of talent the opportunity to acquire a top prospect (this is especially true of the NHL, where because players are drafted at a younger age compared to the NFL or NBA and must typically complete junior and minor league development before reaching the majors, there is typically only one NHL-ready prospect in any given draft).\n\nTeams eliminated from playoffs can affect other teams in the league as they play, often having a spoiler effect on teams still in contention for playoff spots.\n\nFor example, on the final day of the 2011 Major League Baseball regular season, the long eliminated Baltimore Orioles defeated the Boston Red Sox, who had been seen all season as contenders for the playoffs. This Red Sox loss, combined with a Tampa Bay Rays win over the AL East winner and Red Sox rival New York Yankees, knocked the Red Sox out of the playoffs in favor of the Rays. On the same day, the NL East champion Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Atlanta Braves, and the Braves loss, combined with the St. Louis Cardinals victory over the NL Central rival Houston Astros, eliminated the Braves from the postseason.\n\nIn a testament to the Giants-Dodgers rivalry, the 1982 Los Angeles Dodgers knocked the 1982 San Francisco Giants out of playoff contention on the second to last day of the season. With the Dodgers needing one more win to tie the lead for the division, the Giants defeated the Dodgers on the final day to eliminate their rivals from contention, much to the delight of the fans at Candlestick Park.\n\nOn the second-to-last day of the 2015-16 NHL regular season, the long-eliminated Ottawa Senators defeated the Boston Bruins, who were in playoff contention for the entire season; this result, combined with a win by the Philadelphia Flyers over their in-state rival, the Pittsburgh Penguins, knocked the Bruins out of the playoffs in favor of the Flyers.\n\nOn the final matchday of the CONCACAF qualification tournament for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Trinidad and Tobago, who have long been eliminated from qualifying from the World Cup, defeated the United States, who were overwhelming favourites to qualify; the loss by the United States, combined with wins by Panama over Costa Rica and Honduras over Mexico, not only eliminated the United States from World Cup contention for the first time in 32 years, but also meant that Panama qualified for their first-ever World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "7671807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7671807", "title": "Etincelles F.C.", "text": "Etincelles F.C.\n\nEtincelles Football Club is an association football club based in Gisenyi, Rwanda. They currently compete in the Rwanda National Football League and play their home games at the 5,000-capacity Umuganda Stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "20915357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20915357", "title": "Evangeline Downs", "text": "Evangeline Downs\n\nEvangeline Downs Racetrack & Casino is a racetrack in St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, just east of Opelousas. It is owned and operated by Boyd Gaming. With a one mile oval track, the facility provides close to 1,000 horse stalls for Thoroughbred flat racing and American Quarter Horse racing. The original track opened on April 28, 1966 at Carencro, Louisiana and remained there until 2005 when it moved to Opelousas, Louisiana.\n\nOn April 28, 1966, Evangeline Downs opened for business in its original location along U.S. Highway 167 (also known as the Evangeline Thruway, and today as Interstate Highway 49) at Carencro, Louisiana, just north of the city limits of Lafayette, Louisiana.\n\nIn 1982, Rodney Verret, Ted Haik, Sam Rankin, and Joe Jones bought the track for $12.4 million.\n\nIn 1985, they sold it to Norman Denny and Larry Willis for $16.5 million. Denny and Willis soon ran into financial problems. After a missed payment of purse money, the Louisiana Racing Commission threatened to shut down the track. Evangeline Downs was forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and closed indefinitely in October 1986. Unable to negotiate a reorganization, Denny and Willis shifted to Chapter 7 liquidation, asking a court to sell the track.\n\nThe Louisiana Savings Association, primary mortgage holder for the property, bought it at auction for the minimum bid of $333,335. Races resumed in April 1987.\n\nEvangeline Downs added video poker machines in 1992. In a 1996 election, Lafayette Parish voters enacted a parish-wide ban on video poker. As a result, the track made plans to move to St. Landry Parish, whose voters had rejected a similar ban.\n\nIn February 2002, Peninsula Gaming bought a fifty percent interest in the track from B. I. Moody for $15 million. They bought the remaining half several months later from William Trotter for another $15 million, plus 0.5% of slot revenues for the first ten years. Peninsula carried out the move to Opelousas, opening a casino at the new site in late 2003, with races following in 2005. Peninsula was acquired by Boyd Gaming in November 2012.\n\nIn 2009, the Horseplayers Association of North America introduced a rating system for 65 thoroughbred racetracks in North America. Of the top ten, Evangeline Downs was ranked #6.\n\nOn November 6, 2014, Regis Prograis fought Jeff Humphries on a boxing card with Prograis winning with a KO in round 1.\n\nOn September 5, 1977, U.S. Racing Hall of Fame inductee, John Henry won his first-ever stakes race at Evangeline Downs, capturing the Lafayette Futurity.\n\nA number of notable jockeys began their professional careers at this track, including Robby Albarado, Ronald Ardoin, Calvin Borel, Curt Bourque, Eddie Delahoussaye, Kent Desormeaux, Mark Guidry, Randy Romero, Shane Sellers and Ray Sibille.\n\n"}
{"id": "51403205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51403205", "title": "Handsome Devil (film)", "text": "Handsome Devil (film)\n\nHandsome Devil is a 2016 Irish comedy-drama film directed by John Butler. It was screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nIt centres around an ostracised teenager (Fionn O'Shea) at an elite rugby-obsessed all boys boarding school in Ireland modelled on Castleknock and Clongowes, whose new roommate (Nicholas Galitzine) is the school's new rugby star-player. The two form an unlikely friendship until it is tested by those around them. The film features themes of homosexuality, while examining the hypocrisy and snobbery of the Irish private school system. \"Handsome Devil\" has received critical acclaim, winning the award for Best Irish Feature of 2017 from the Dublin Film Critics' Circle; four nominations at the 2018 Irish Film and Television Academy (IFTA) Awards, including Best Feature Film; and the Best Single Drama Award at the annual Celtic Media Festival in 2018.\n\nThe film is set at an elite rugby-obsessed all boys boarding school in Ireland modelled on Castleknock and Clongowes, and is seen through the eyes of Ned, an ostracised student at the school. He seems to be the only student there who does not enjoy rugby. A new student arrives at the school, Conor, who is Ned's roommate and a star rugby player. Though the two are initially wary of each other, they soon form a close friendship, with a particular interest in music. The new English teacher, Mr. Sherry, also arrives at the school, who, though stern, is encouraging towards Ned and Conor. It is revealed throughout the film that the school generally exhibits homophobic behaviour, particularly by the students and the rugby coach, Pascal.\n\nDuring a night out celebrating with the rugby team, Conor sees Mr. Sherry with his male partner and understands that he is homosexual. Pascal sees the two of them talking with each other and becomes worried that Mr. Sherry's influence will have a negative effect on Conor, his most valuable player. \n\nNed and Conor decide to perform a musical piece at the local elementary school's variety show, at the encouragement of Mr. Sherry. Pascal and the rest of the rugby team find out that Conor was kicked out of his former school for fighting, and uses it as blackmail, insinuating that if he does not pick different friends, his secret will be revealed. As a result, Conor does not turn up to the variety show performance, leaving Ned emotionally hurt. Ned turns up to an event with the rugby team, where Conor shoves him away in front of the entire team. \n\nAngry and frustrated, during a rugby rally, Ned outs Conor in front of the entire school. Ned is expelled and Conor runs away.\n\nAs the final match approaches, Conor is still missing. Ned knows where to find him and brings him back to the stadium, where they convince Pascal that he can still be homosexual and a good rugby player, and that Conor is not ashamed of his sexuality, despite that being the case in the past. The film ends with the team winning the final of the Leinster Schools Senior Cup and Ned returning to the school and winning the English writing competition.\n\n\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 83% based on 42 reviews, with an average rating of 6.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Handsome Devil\" offers a charming, well-acted variation on the coming-of-age story with a few fresh topical twists.\" Metacritic gives the film a weighted average rating of 60 out of 100, based on 6 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31759889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31759889", "title": "I-Shou University F.C.", "text": "I-Shou University F.C.\n\nI-Shou University FC is an association football club from Taiwan. They play at the highest level and their home venue is the 5,000 capacityTaichung Football Field. It is a university football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "47998268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47998268", "title": "John Coppolella", "text": "John Coppolella\n\nJohn Coppolella (born July 28, 1979) is a former American baseball front office executive who served as the general manager of the Atlanta Braves of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 2015 through 2017. Coppolella resigned as general manager of the Braves after he committed amateur signing infractions. MLB banned him for life as a result of those violations.\n\nCoppolella was born on July 28, 1979, and is of Italian descent. He graduated magna cum laude with a business management degree from the University of Notre Dame.\n\nPrior to graduating, Coppolella was offered and initially accepted a job at Intel. He chose to continue exploring opportunities in baseball, and ultimately turned Intel down for an internship with the New York Yankees, working for the MLB team from 2000 through 2006. \n\nIn 2006, Coppolella joined the Braves as their director of baseball operations. He held that position until 2011, when he served as director of professional scouting. In 2012, Coppolella was promoted to assistant general manager. After Frank Wren was fired as the Braves' general manager after the 2014 season, John Hart took over as the president of baseball operations of the Braves, with Coppolella heavily involved in the team's transactions, including the trades of Craig Kimbrel and Jason Heyward. The Braves announced on October 1, 2015, that Coppolella was promoted to general manager, and signed to a four-year contract. On October 2, 2017, Coppolella resigned his position as general manager, after Major League Baseball disclosed several infractions regarding the Braves' signings of international players. On November 21, he was banned for life from baseball by MLB as a result of their investigation into the matter.\n\nCoppolella is married and has three children.\n"}
{"id": "18417726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18417726", "title": "John Dampier", "text": "John Dampier\n\nJohn Dampier (1750 – 18 August 1826) was an English amateur cricketer in the late 18th century. His place of birth is unknown but he was educated at Eton College. He died in Ely, Cambridgeshire when he was either 75 or 76 years old. He made five known appearances for the White Conduit Club team, based at White Conduit Fields in Islington, between 1785 and 1787. He was an early member of Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) which was founded in 1787, but he is not known to have played for MCC.\n"}
{"id": "12412960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12412960", "title": "Kohtla-Järve Viru Sputnik", "text": "Kohtla-Järve Viru Sputnik\n\nViru Sputnik is an Estonian ice hockey team playing in the Meistriliiga. The club is based in Kohtla-Järve and the home arena is Kohtla-Järve Jäähall. Viru Sputnik has played in Meistriliiga since it was established in 2003.\n\nIn 2009–10 season they became the Estonian champions, 2008–09 and 2010–11 season they placed second.\n\n"}
{"id": "11739500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11739500", "title": "League Park (San Antonio)", "text": "League Park (San Antonio)\n\nLeague Park was a stadium in San Antonio, Texas. It was primarily used for baseball and was the home of minor league San Antonio Bears. \n\nThe ballpark was used from 1923 through 1932. It was located at East Josephine and Isleta streets near Brackenridge Park Golf Course, and had a capacity of 6,000 people. It hosted its first night game on July 24, 1930, with 3,400 in attendance. It burned down on June 18, 1932, after a fire started in the clubhouse.\n\nLeague Park was used for spring training by the Boston Red Sox in 1924, and hosted Babe Ruth and the New York Yankees in a preseason game on March 31, 1930.\n\nA different ballpark in San Antonio, Block Stadium, was used from 1913 through 1923; it was also known as \"League Park\" after 1915.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57654387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57654387", "title": "Lee Hae-chang", "text": "Lee Hae-chang\n\nLee Hae-chang(; born Mat 11, 1987) is the catcher of KT Wiz of the KBO League. He joined Nexen Heroes in 2010. Then he moved to KT Wiz in 2015. He graduated Hanyang University.\n\n"}
{"id": "4335197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4335197", "title": "List of FIFA international referees", "text": "List of FIFA international referees\n\nThis is a list of current and past FIFA international referees. Years in brackets indicate when the referee was designated as the FIFA International Referees List.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYears refer to seasons on the National List of Referees. These officials operate at Football League level or above. Seasons spent as a Premier League referee or FIFA referee are indicated in addition where they apply.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56468177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56468177", "title": "List of Swedish ice hockey champions (players)", "text": "List of Swedish ice hockey champions (players)\n\nThe Swedish ice hockey champions () is a title awarded annually to the winning playoff team of the top-tier ice hockey league in Sweden, which currently is Swedish Hockey League (SHL). It was first awarded to IK Göta in 1922, the championship's inaugural year. The championship's present SHL format did not take into effect until the league was originally formed for the 1975–76 season under the name of Elitserien. A team who wins the Swedish Championship is awarded the Le Mat Trophy. Djurgårdens IF holds the most titles in history with 16 titles. The most recent Swedish Champions are Frölunda HC, who won their fourth title in club history in 2016.\n\nBefore 1953, the Swedish champions were determined through a standalone tournament, the Swedish Ice Hockey Championship, where teams could submit their participation. In other words, the leagues were not connected with the Swedish Championship during this period. Between 1953 and 1955, the winner was decided through matches between the winners of Division 1 Norra and Division 1 Södra. From 1956 to 1965, the Swedish champions was the winner of a second round group stage following Division 1. In the years of 1966 and 1967 a play-off was played between Division 1 teams and the 1968 season saw a return to second round group stage. In the 1975–76 season, Elitserien was started and the winner of Elitserien (later SHL) play-off became Swedish ice hockey champion.\n\nLars Björn and Tord Lundström have the most titles, with nine each.\n\nBelow is a list of the players awarded medals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58158001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58158001", "title": "List of left-handed quarterbacks", "text": "List of left-handed quarterbacks\n\nThis is a list of notable left-handed quarterbacks who have played professionally or for a major college program. In gridiron football, quarterbacks have been predominantly right-handed with a few notable exceptions. While left-dominant people make up 10% of the general population, only 0.85% of NFL pass-throwers were left-handed in 2017. With Kellen Moore's retirement after that year, there are currently none in the NFL as of 2018.\n\nFormer NFL quarterback and current analyst David Carr cited a lower number of left-handed quarterbacks to be due to the fact that plays are usually drawn assuming a right-handed pass-thrower, which may explain some struggles left-handed quarterbacks have. However, a number of left-handed throwers have been successful quarterbacks, including Ken Stabler, Steve Young, Mark Brunell, and Michael Vick.\n\n! Name\n! Year of Birth\n! Year of Death\n! Professional Career\n! Teams/programs played for\n! Notes\n! References\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n|-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41104347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41104347", "title": "List of unrelegated association football clubs", "text": "List of unrelegated association football clubs\n\nSeveral association football clubs succeed in playing at the highest level without being relegated from their domestic league. This page lists the clubs that managed to stay in top flight for an extended period of time, and those that have never been relegated from their current top-tier league.\n\nMore often than not, football clubs have played in more than one top-tier competition. It is therefore possible that teams relegated at one point in their history, but have not done so in the competition in which they currently compete. This is the case for multiple teams in countries where football was played in regional leagues prior to the creation of a unified national league. In such countries, a national champion was previously declared by means of a play-off tournament between teams that qualified through their regional tournaments. In Germany, for instance, seven teams have never been relegated from the Bundesliga (some joining more recently), but three of them found themselves expelled from the older \"Oberligen\". Hamburg played continuously in the top tier of the German football system from the end of World War I until 2018. In the Netherlands, football used to be organised in regional competitions as well. The unified Eredivisie was born in 1956, and four teams have continuously played at this highest national level since then.\n\nEven before the establishment of regional competitions, football was played in league systems. The very first football championships in Europe were often organised on a local level. Taking these smaller competitions into account, Austria Wien and Rapid Wien can claim to have played at the highest possible level since competition began in Austria in 1911. At that time however, the only organised football was played in the league of Lower Austria, which was then located in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and only teams from Vienna took part. Later, Austrian teams competed in the German football system for several years, which made it possible for Rapid Wien to become German champion in 1941. The current Austrian Bundesliga was only established in 1974, and to this point a total of five teams never relegated from that competition.\n\nIn Greece and Turkey, competitive football was organised in even smaller leagues. In both countries, city-leagues were the highest level for quite some time. In 1959, a unified Hellenic championship was founded, and Olympiacos, Panathinaikos and PAOK have played in every season of it. However, these teams were already high-flyers in the preceding city-leagues. The same applies to Beşiktaş, Fenerbahçe and Galatasaray in Turkey.\n\nIn Russia, football too was first played at city-level. The \"St. Petersburg Football League\" was established in 1901, and its Moscowian counterpart followed in 1909. Many years later, in 1936, the Soviet Top League was formed. This competition ceased to exist when the Soviet Union fell, and new leagues were formed in the fifteen successor states. As a result, many teams entered a top division for the first time in their history. In Estonia, for example, the new Meistriliiga was composed of clubs that never participated in the top flight before. As these are relatively new competitions, many clubs can claim to have never been relegated from the top-level. But only Dynamo Kyiv and Dinamo Tbilisi have always played at the highest possible level. On the other hand, Dynamo Moscow has played in every season of the Soviet Top League but was relegated in 2015–16 Russian Premier League season.\n\nBesides the Soviet, also the Czechoslovak and Yugoslav football leagues split into multiple competitions in the early 1990s. A total of eight teams have not been relegated from the national championships of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but no team managed to achieve this in Czechoslovak times. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, football became divided alongside ethnic lines and competition was held in three different leagues, before the establishment of a national division in 2000. In Kosovo, a national league also exists, although not it was not recognised by UEFA or FIFA until 2016. In all, three clubs – Red Star Belgrade, Partizan Belgrade and Dinamo Zagreb – have played at the highest level since the creation of socialist Yugoslavia, whilst Hajduk Split have never been relegated since they first played in the championship of the now long gone Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. However, many more teams have never been relegated from their current national championships.\n\nIn still many other instances, new top-tier leagues were created to replace existing national championships. In England, six teams have been present in every season of the Premier League, which was founded in 1992. None of them however had an uninterrupted run in the preceding First Division. Thus, a great number of teams can claim to have never been relegated from these newer competitions. In Scotland, only Celtic and Aberdeen have never been relegated. Rangers were liquidated in 2012 and were subsequently placed in the fourth tier of the Scottish football league system. Similarly, Cliftonville, Glentoran and Linfield have the unique distinction of having played at the top flight in Northern Ireland for 125 years, but five more teams have been present in every season of the NIFL Premiership, which was only established in 2008.\n\nThere are however leagues that have been running for a long time. Not surprising, fewer clubs manage to stay on top the longer a competition runs. The Spanish Primera División was born in 1929, and only Athletic Bilbao, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid have been present ever since. The same year the Italian Serie A became a round-robin tournament, and only Inter Milan has continuously played at the highest level from that moment forward – even doing so since 1909. And finally, no team that plays in the Swiss Super League – established in 1897 – has not been relegated at one point in their history.\n\nThis table lists all clubs that have continuously played at the highest level for 75 years or more until their first relegation. Taken into account are all the leagues that formed the highest level at the time each club played in them. Competitions that were organised on sub-regional levels are excluded though. This is the reason no clubs from Greece or Turkey are listed, as in those countries football was played in city-level competitions up until 1959.\n\nThe large number of Brazilian football clubs on this list can be explained by the fact that these clubs were dominant in the relatively small state leagues, which formed the highest tier of competition in Brazil for more than half a century. The Taça Brasil, which existed between 1959 and 1968, is not considered a top-tier tournament for the purpose of this list, as it was a knockout competition between the different state champions, and no team took part in every edition.\n\n, the majority of the teams listed below continue to play at the top, although a few have ended their uninterrupted spell. Note also that some teams had been relegated (and promoted back) before the start of their record spell.\n\nSource: RSSSF and RSSSF Brasil\n\nThis is a list of football clubs which have never been relegated from their current national top-level league and have played at least ten seasons at this level. The year before the name of each team indicates when they began their uninterrupted run. Clubs that are in bold are founding members of their current league.\n\nPrimera División – Argentina\n\nPremier League – Armenia\n\nBundesliga – Austria\nPremyer Liqası – Azerbaijan\nVysheyshaya Liga – Belarus\nFirst Division A - Belgium\nPrimera División – Bolivia\nPremijer Liga – Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nSérie A – Brazil\n\nParva Liga – Bulgaria\n\nCampeonato Nacional – Chile\n\nCategoría Primera A – Colombia\n\nPrva HNL – Croatia\nFirst Division – Cyprus\nFirst League – Czech Republic\nSuperligaen – Denmark\n\nSerie A – Ecuador\n\nPremier League – Egypt\nPremier League – England\n\nMeistriliiga – Estonia\n\nVeikkausliiga – Finland\n\nLigue 1 – France\nUmaglesi Liga – Georgia\n\nBundesliga – Germany\nPremier League – Ghana\n\nSuperleague – Greece\n\nLiga Nacional – Honduras\n\nLeague of Ireland – Ireland\nPremier League – Israel\n\nSerie A – Italy\n\n\nLigue 1 – Ivory Coast\n\nJ1 League – Japan\nPremier League – Kazakhstan\n\nKyrgyzstan League – Kyrgyzstan\n\nVirslīga – Latvia\n\nA Lyga – Lithuania\n\n1. MFL – Macedonia\nMalaysia Super League – Malaysia\nPremier League – Malta\n\nLiga MX – Mexico\n\nDivizia Națională – Moldova\n1. CFL - Montenegro\n\nThe Montenegrin First League was formed in 2006. , six teams have played in every season of this competition.\nEredivisie – Netherlands\n\nNIFL Premiership - Northern Ireland\n\n\nEliteserien – Norway\n\nPrimera División – Paraguay\n\nPrimera División – Peru\n\nPrimeira Liga – Portugal\n\nLiga I – Romania\n\nFootball Championship – Russia\n\nJameel League – Saudi Arabia\n\n\nPremiership – Scotland\n\nThe Scottish Premier League existed between 1998 and 2013, when it was replaced by the Scottish Premiership. , four teams have played in every season of both competitions without being relegated.\nSuperLiga – Serbia\nSuper Liga – Slovakia\n\n1. SNL – Slovenia\nPrimera División – Spain\n\nTajik League – Tajikistan\nThai League – Thailand\nCLP-1 – Tunisia\n\nSüper Lig – Turkey\n\nÝokary Liga – Turkmenistan\n\nPremier League – Ukraine\nUAE Arabian Gulf League – United Arab Emirates\n\nPrimera División – Uruguay\n\nUzbek League – Uzbekistan\nPrimera División – Venezuela\n\nPremier League – Wales\n\n"}
{"id": "18687317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18687317", "title": "Lord's Old Ground", "text": "Lord's Old Ground\n\nLord's Old Ground was a cricket venue in London that was established by Thomas Lord in 1787. It was used mainly by Marylebone Cricket Club for major matches until 1810, after which a dispute about rent caused Lord to relocate.\n\nThe first match known to have been played at Lord's Old Ground was White Conduit Club v Middlesex on Monday 21 May 1787.\n\nThe first regular cricket fixture at Lord's (i.e., one that continues to this day) was the annual Eton v Harrow match which was first played on the Old Ground in 1805.\n\nThe inaugural Gentlemen v Players match took place at the Old Ground in July 1806.\n\nLord's Old Ground was on the site of what is now Dorset Square. Lord relocated in 1811 to Lord's Middle Ground, a site at Lisson Grove in the vicinity of Regent's Park but he lost that venue after only three years because the land was requisitioned for a canal cutting. In 1814, he opened the present Lord's Cricket Ground, formerly a duckpond in St John's Wood.\n\nA commemorative plaque was unveiled in Dorset Square by Andrew Strauss on 9 May 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "48303666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48303666", "title": "Mazarea Dina FC", "text": "Mazarea Dina FC\n\nMazarea Dina FC () is an Egyptian football club based in Cairo. It was founded under the name Ittihad Othman (), and was changed to the current name in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47237012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47237012", "title": "Metros de Santiago", "text": "Metros de Santiago\n\nMetros de Santiago is a professional basketball team based in Santiago de los Caballeros, Santiago, Dominican Republic. The team currently plays in the Dominican top division Liga Nacional de Baloncesto.\n\nLiga Nacional de Baloncesto \n2006, 2007, 2014, 2015, 2017\n"}
{"id": "727639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727639", "title": "Middle Park Stakes", "text": "Middle Park Stakes\n\nThe Middle Park Stakes is a Group 1 flat horse race in Great Britain open to two-year-old colts. It is run on the Rowley Mile at Newmarket over a distance of 6 furlongs (1,207 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in September.\n\nThe event was founded by William Blenkiron, and it is named after his stud at Eltham. It was established in 1866, and was initially titled the Middle Park Plate. It was originally open to horses of either gender.\n\nThe race was formerly staged during Newmarket's Cambridgeshire Meeting in late September or early October. It was restricted to colts in 1987. It became part of a new fixture called Future Champions Day in 2011.\n\nFrom 2015, the Middle Park Stakes was moved from Future Champions Day and brought forward two weeks, returning to the Cambridgeshire meeting, to avoid a clash with the similar Dewhurst Stakes.\n\nThe Middle Park Stakes was added to the Breeders' Cup Challenge series in 2012. The winner earned an automatic invitation to compete in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Sprint. The Middle Park Stakes was dropped from the Challenge series when the Juvenile Sprint Stakes was discontinued after the 2012 running.\n\nThe leading horses from the Middle Park Stakes sometimes go on to compete in the following season's 2000 Guineas. The first to win both was Prince Charlie (1871–72), and the most recent was Rodrigo de Triano (1991–92).\n\n Three Valleys finished first in 2003, but he was subsequently disqualified after testing positive for a banned substance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3638085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3638085", "title": "Nigeria at the 1980 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nigeria at the 1980 Summer Olympics\n\nNigeria competed at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, USSR.\nThe nation returned to the Olympic Games after boycotting the 1976 Summer Olympics.\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\n\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's 4×400 metres Relay\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\n\n\nWomen's 100 metres\n\n\nMen's Bantamweight (54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (57 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (60 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Welterweight (63,5 kg)\n\nMen's Heavyweight (+ 81 kg)\n\n<br>\nTeam Roster\n\n"}
{"id": "23732974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23732974", "title": "Omar Nejjary", "text": "Omar Nejjary\n\nOmar Nejjary is a retired Moroccan footballer. He usually played as midfielder. \n\nNejjary spent his entire career at Raja Casablanca and played for his club at the 2000 FIFA Club World Cup.\n"}
{"id": "48733726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48733726", "title": "PJ Hindu Gymkhana Ground", "text": "PJ Hindu Gymkhana Ground\n\nPJ Hindu Gymkhana Ground is a multi purpose club ground in Marine Drive, Mumbai, Marashtra. The ground is mainly used for organizing matches of football, cricket and other sports. \n\nThe gymkhana ground itself was inaugurated by then Governor of Bombay, Lord Harris on 5 May 1894. At that time it was located on Marine Lines, which was the only access as Marine Drive was yet to be reclaimed.\n\nHindu Gymkhana was responsible for fielding the Hindus cricket team in the Bombay Quadrangular and its successor Bombay Pentangular cricket tournaments. The gymkhana is one of the founder members of the Bombay Cricket Association. Hindu Gymkhana organises several tournaments such as Purshottam Shield Cricket Tournament which is the oldest tournament statrt in 1912 that it organises.\n\nThe Gymkhana has been identified as a Heritage Grade IIA structure. As the gymkhana land belongs to the collector, one of its lease conditions is that the grounds should be accessible by the general public and non-sporting activities.\n\nSachin Tendulkar gave his first television interview to Tom Alter at the Hindu Gymkhana grounds. Indian Batsman Eknath Solkar was the son of a groundsman at Hindu Gymkana.\n\n"}
{"id": "17999003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17999003", "title": "Richard J. Codey Arena", "text": "Richard J. Codey Arena\n\nThe Richard J. Codey Arena at South Mountain (formerly the South Mountain Arena) is an ice hockey and ice skating arena in West Orange, New Jersey as part of the South Mountain Recreation Complex. The arena is named for former Governor of New Jersey Richard Codey. The Codey Arena is owned and operated by the Essex County Department of Park, Recreation, and Cultural Affairs.\n\nSouth Mountain Arena originally opened in 1958 with the second, smaller rink added in 1983. During 2004 and 2005 the arena underwent major renovations that included a new state-of-the-art lobby for the arena including meeting rooms, a skylight, automatic doors, pro shop (now a glice training area), arcade, and concession stand. Another part of the renovation was a new set of dasher boards, Plexiglas, compression system, jumbotron screen, and seats for Rink 1, as well as a new dehumidifier for Rink 2; it was renamed the Codey Arena upon reopening. In 2017, management announced that Rink 1 would undergo renovation once again putting in new seats, new boards, and a new jumbotron/scoreboard. In the fall of 2018, the arcade was replaced by vending machines.\n\nThe arena has two NHL-sized skating rinks. The main arena has a seating capacity of 2,500 and the second rink seats approximately 500. From 1986 until the opening of the Prudential Center (which includes a full-size practice rink) in 2007, the New Jersey Devils used the arena as the team's practice facility. In November 2008 it became home to the Jersey Rockhoppers of the Eastern Professional Hockey League. The arena is also home to the New Jersey Daredevils, a special needs hockey team that has practices and home games at the arena since 2002. The Daredevils play in the (SHI) Special Hockey International League. Since 2009, The Daredevils host an annual Halloween hockey tournament in October for all Special Hockey International Teams (including the Daredevils) called Frankenfest. The New Jersey Devils Youth Hockey club is also based at the arena with more than twenty teams from the beginners entry level to the highly competitive AAA USA Hockey Sanctioned level. The Seton Hall University and the Seton Hall Preparatory School men's hockey teams also compete at the arena. Livingston High School hockey also plays at the arena. They are known as The Lancers.\n\nThe arena offers many classes at different levels from toddlers to adults. There are also public sessions available during weekdays and weekends.\n\nThe Essex Skating Club (ESC) is the figure skating club at the arena. The club has more than 300 youth and adult members with winning records at national competitions. A number of coaches at ESC are Worlds and Olympic medalists such as Kay Barsdell, Oleg Bliakhman, Ken Foster and JoJo Starbuck. The Synchroettes are youth synchronized skating teams with winning records including regional champions and the gold medal at the 2010 U.S. Synchronized Skating Championships. In 2012, the Junior-level team of Synchroettes was selected by the U.S. Figure Skating to be part of the Team USA for 2012-13 season to compete in Leon Lurje Trophy international competition in Sweden. The Essex Blades is an adult synchronized skating team which ranked 6th at the 2011 U.S. Synchronized Skating Championships. Bravo! is a Novice Theatre on Ice team which ranked 4th at the 2011 US National Theatre on Ice Competition. In 2012, Bravo! was selected by US Figure Skating to be one of the two Novice teams to represent the United States at the 2013 Nations Cup in Spain.\n\nThe Garden State Speedskating is one of 70 speed skating clubs and the only club in New Jersey sanctioned by US Speedskating. The Garden State Speedskating has two home rinks. The home rink at Richard J. Codey Arena offers Learn to Speed Skating program for all skating levels.\n\nThe arena has been used in non-ice sport tournaments such as Essex County Tournament of high school wrestling, and other events such as graduation ceremonies. The arena is also a site of emergency shelters for the county in the time of natural disasters. Occasionally, a rink is rented out for private entities, for instance, using it as a filming location for a Super Bowl commercial.\n\nThe arena was also home to the New Jersey Gems of the Women's Professional Basketball League during the Gem's third and final season of play in 1980-81.\n\nNew Jersey Transit bus 73 serves the arena, Turtle Back Zoo, and the South Mountain recreational complex. There are two commuter bus lines from the arena to New York City, Community Coach bus 77, and OurBus Livingston/West Orange.\n\n"}
{"id": "23320255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23320255", "title": "Rugby union in Mali", "text": "Rugby union in Mali\n\nRugby Union in Mali is a minor but growing sport.\n\nThe governing body for the sport is the Fédération Malienne de Rugby (Malienne Rugby Federation).\n\nMali was formerly a French colony, and the game was first introduced there by French expatriates. In recent years, the game has been played mostly by native Malians.\n\nMali has a long-established union and players come from all walks of life.\n\n"}
{"id": "3773818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3773818", "title": "Short of a length", "text": "Short of a length\n\nShort of a length (sometimes referred to as \"back of a length\" or \"short of a good length\") is a term used in the sport of cricket. It describes a delivery from the bowler that pitches short of the optimum length.\n\nLength in cricket defines where the ball pitches on the wicket. A good length ball is one that pitches at a distance that makes it difficult for the batsman to ascertain whether to play the ball on the front foot or back foot. A bouncer is a ball that passes the batsman above chest height. A short of a length delivery is one that pitches in the area between the bouncer and good length balls.\n\nThis delivery can be dangerous for a batsman as it can bounce higher into the midriff. Also, the delivery can be extremely useful to a seam bowler. Good exponents include Stephen Harmison and Glenn McGrath. \n\n"}
{"id": "32361707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32361707", "title": "Skautafélagið Björninn", "text": "Skautafélagið Björninn\n\nSkautafélagið Björninn, also known as Björninn for short, was an Icelandic sports club, founded in 1990 and based in Reykjavík, Iceland. It was best known for its ice hockey teams but it also fielded departments in figure skating and curling. On 28 September 2018 the club merged into Ungmennafélagið Fjölnir who overtook all its, departments, assets and debts.\n\nThe clubs men's ice hockey team played in the Icelandic Hockey League from the 1991-92 season until 2018. It won the national championship in 2012 after beating Skautafélag Reykjavíkur 3-1 in the best-of-five finals series.\n\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, OTW = Overtime Wins, OTL = Overtime Losses, L = Losses, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, Pts = Points\"\n\n\"This table includes results from the last five years only.\"\n\nThe clubs women's ice hockey team won the national championship in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "66733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66733", "title": "Snorkeling", "text": "Snorkeling\n\nSnorkeling (British and Commonwealth English spelling: snorkelling) is the practice of swimming on or through a body of water while equipped with a diving mask, a shaped breathing tube called a snorkel, and usually swimfins. In cooler waters, a wetsuit may also be worn. Use of this equipment allows the snorkeler to observe underwater attractions for extended periods with relatively little effort and to breathe while face-down at the surface.\n\nSnorkeling is a popular recreational activity, particularly at tropical resort locations. The primary appeal is the opportunity to observe underwater life in a natural setting without the complicated equipment and training required for scuba diving. It appeals to all ages because of how little effort there is, and without the exhaled bubbles of scuba-diving equipment. It is the basis of the two surface disciplines of the underwater sport of finswimming.\n\nSnorkeling is also used by scuba divers when on the surface, in underwater sports such as underwater hockey and underwater rugby, and as part of water-based searches conducted by search and rescue teams.\n\nSnorkeling is mentioned by Aristotle in his \"Parts of Animals\". He refers to divers using \"instruments for respiration\" resembling the elephant's trunk. Some evidence suggests that snorkeling may have originated in Crete some 5,000 years ago as sea sponge farmers used hollowed out reeds to submerge and retrieve natural sponge for use in trade and commerce.\n\nThe snorkel may be a separate item or may be integrated with a full-face snorkelling mask. The integrated system is only suitable for surface snorkelling, but the separate snorkel may also be used for free-diving and for surface breathing with scuba equipment.\n\nA swimmer's snorkel is a tube typically about long and with an inside diameter of between , usually L- or J-shaped and fitted with a mouthpiece at the lower end, and constructed of rubber or plastic. It is used for breathing air from above the water surface when the wearer's mouth and nose are submerged, facing down. The snorkel may have a piece of rubber or a plastic clip that attaches the snorkel to the outside of the strap of the diving mask. An alternative technique is fitting the snorkel between the mask-strap and the head, but this practice may increase the chance that the mask leaks, and of losing the snorkel.\n\nThe optimum design length of the snorkel tube is at most 40 centimeters (about 16 inches). A longer tube would not allow breathing when snorkelling deeper, since it would place the lungs in deeper water where the surrounding water pressure is higher. The lungs would then be unable to inflate when the snorkeler inhales, because the muscles that expand the lungs are not strong enough to operate against the higher pressure. The pressure difference across the tissues in the lungs, between the blood capillaries and air spaces would increase the risk of pulmonary edema.\n\nSnorkels constitute respiratory dead space. When the user takes in a fresh breath, some of the previously exhaled air which remains in the snorkel is inhaled again, reducing the amount of fresh air in the inhaled volume, and increasing the risk of a buildup of carbon dioxide in the blood, which can result in hypercapnia. The greater the volume of the tube, and the smaller the tidal volume of breathing, the more this problem is exacerbated. A smaller diameter tube reduces the dead volume, but also increases resistance to airflow and so increases the work of breathing. Occasional exhalation through the nose while snorkeling will slightly reduce the buildup of carbon dioxide, and may help in keeping the mask clear of water. It may also increase fogging.\n\nThe simplest type of snorkel is a plain tube that is allowed to flood when underwater. The snorkeler expels water from the snorkel either with a sharp exhalation on return to the surface (\"blast clearing\") or by tilting the head back shortly before reaching the surface and exhaling until reaching or breaking the surface (\"displacement method\") and facing forward or down again before inhaling the next breath. The displacement method expels water by filling the snorkel with air; it is a technique that takes practice but clears the snorkel with less effort, but only works when surfacing. Clearing splash water while at the surface requires blast clearing.\nSome snorkels have a sump at the lowest point to allow a small volume of water to remain in the snorkel without being inhaled when the snorkeler breathes. Some also have a non-return valve in the sump, to drain water in the tube when the diver exhales. The water is pushed out through the valve when the tube is blocked by water and the exhalation pressure exceeds the water pressure on the outside of the valve. This is almost exactly the mechanism of blast clearing which does not require the valve, but the pressure required is marginally less, and effective blast clearing requires a higher flow rate. The full face mask has a double airflow valve which allows breathing through the nose in addition to the mouth. A few models of snorkel have float-operated valves attached to the top end of the tube to keep water out when a wave passes, but these cause problems when diving as the snorkel must then be equalized during descent, using part of the diver's inhaled air supply. Some recent designs have a splash deflector on the top end that reduces entry of any water that splashes over the top end of the tube, thereby keeping it relatively free from water.\n\nFinswimmers usually don't use snorkels with a sump valve, as they learn to blast clear the tube on most if not all exhalations, which keeps the water content in the tube to a minimum as the tube can be shaped for lower work of breathing, and elimination of water traps, allowing greater speed and lowering the stress of eventual swallowing of small quantities of water, which would impede their competition performance.\n\nA common problem with all mechanical clearing mechanisms is their tendency to fail if infrequently used, or if stored for long periods, or through environmental fouling, or owing to lack of maintenance. Many also either slightly increase the flow resistance of the snorkel, or provide a small water trap, which retains a little water in the tube after clearing.\nModern designs use silicone rubber in the mouthpiece and one-way clearing and float valves due to its resistance to degradation and its long service life. Natural rubber was formerly used, but slowly oxidizes and breaks down due to ultraviolet light exposure from the sun. It eventually loses its flexibility, becomes brittle and cracks, which can cause clearing valves to stick in the open or closed position, and float valves to leak due to a failure of the valve seat to seal. In even older designs, some snorkels were made with small \"ping pong\" balls in a cage mounted to the open end of the tube to prevent water ingress. These are no longer sold or recommended because they are unreliable and considered hazardous. Similarly, diving masks with a built-in snorkel are considered unsafe by scuba diving organizations such as PADI, BSAC because they can engender a false sense of security and can be difficult to clear if flooded.\n\nApplication of a grease to valve seats can aid in sealing, but it is mechanically washed away over time. A heavy application can cause valves to stick closed and trap grit (foul), which may cause the valve to leak.\n\nEnvironmental fouling can be caused by beach sand or loose-floating plant or animal matter becoming lodged in the valve, preventing proper operation.\n\nAlthough it may be easier to breathe through a snorkel while swimming or floating at the surface, clearing valves may fail, or the snorkel may be lost. If the snorkeler is competent at swimming without a snorkel, the risk of drowning in these circumstances is reduced.\n\nSnorkelers normally wear the same kind of mask as those worn by scuba divers. By creating an airspace, the mask enables the snorkeler to see clearly underwater. All scuba diving masks consist of the lenses also known as a faceplate, a soft rubber skirt, which encloses the nose and seals against the face, and a head strap to hold it in place. There are different styles and shapes. These range from oval shaped models to lower internal volume masks and may be made from different materials; common choices are silicone and rubber. A snorkeler who remains at the surface can use swimmer's goggles which do not enclose the nose.\n\nFull face snorkel masks use an integral snorkel with separate channels for intake and exhaled gases ensuring the user is always breathing untainted fresh air whatever the respiratory effort. The main difficulty or danger is that it must fit the whole face perfectly and since no two faces are the same shape, it should be used with great care and in safe water. In the event of accidental flooding, the whole mask must be removed to continue breathing. It can only be used on the surface, or a couple of feet below since there is no way to equalise the pressure at greater depth. Trained scuba divers are likely to avoid such devices however snorkel masks are a boon for those with medical conditions that preclude taking part in SCUBA diving.\n\nSnorkeling is an activity in its own right, as well as an adjunct to other activities, such as breath-hold diving, spearfishing and scuba diving, and several competitive underwater sports, such as underwater hockey and finswimming.\n\nIn all cases, the use of a snorkel facilitates breathing while swimming at the surface and observing what is going on under the water.\n\nA snorkel can be useful when scuba diving as it is a safe way of swimming face down at the surface for extended periods to conserve the bottled air supply, or in an emergency situation when there is a problem with either air supply or regulator. Many dives do not require the use of a snorkel at all, and some scuba divers do not consider a snorkel a necessary or even useful piece of equipment, but the usefulness of a snorkel depends on the dive plan and the dive site. If there is no requirement to swim face down and see what is happening underwater, then a snorkel is not useful. If it is necessary to swim over heavy seaweed which can entangle the pillar valve and regulator if the diver swims face upward to get to and from the dive site, then a snorkel is useful to save breathing gas.\n\nBeing non-competitive, snorkeling is considered more a leisure activity than a sport. Snorkeling requires no special training, only the very basic swimming abilities and being able to breathe through the snorkel. Some organizations recommend that for snorkeling safety one should not snorkel alone, but rather with a \"buddy\", a guide or a tour group.\nSome commercial snorkeling organizations require snorkelers at their venue to wear an inflatable vest, similar to a personal flotation device. They are usually bright yellow or orange and have a device that allows users to inflate or deflate the device to adjust their buoyancy. However, these devices hinder and prevent a snorkeler from free diving to any depth. Especially in cooler water, a wetsuit of appropriate thickness and coverage may be worn; wetsuits do provide some buoyancy without as much resistance to submersion. In the tropics, snorkelers (especially those with pale skin) often wear a rashguard or a shirt and/or board shorts in order to help protect the skin of the back and upper legs against sunburn.\n\nExperienced snorkelers may progress to amateur free-diving, which should be preceded by at least some training from a dive instructor or experienced free-diver.\n\nThe greatest danger to snorkelers are inshore and leisure craft such as jet skis, speed boats and the like. A snorkeler is often submerged in the water with only the tube visible above the surface. Since these craft can ply the same areas snorkelers visit, the chance for accidental collisions exists. Sailboats and sailboards are a particular hazard as their quiet propulsion systems may not alert the snorkeler of their presence. A snorkeler may surface underneath a vessel and/or be struck by it. Few locations demarcate small craft areas from snorkeling areas, unlike that done for regular beach-bathers, with areas marked by buoys. Snorkelers may therefore choose to wear bright or highly reflective colors/outfits and/or to employ dive flags to enable easy spotting by boaters and others.\n\nSnorkelers' backs, ankles, and rear of their thighs can be exposed to the sun for extended periods, and can burn badly (even if slightly submerged), without being noticed in time. The wearing appropriate covering such as a \"rash guard\" with SPF (in warmer waters), a T-shirt, a wetsuit, and especially \"waterproof\" sunblock will mitigate this risk.\n\nDehydration is another concern. Hydrating well before entering the water is highly recommended, especially if one intends to snorkel for several hours. Proper hydration also prevents cramps. Snorkelers who hyperventilate to extend sub-surface time can experience hypocapnia if they hyperventilate prior to submerging. This can in turn lead to \"shallow water blackout\". Snorkeling with a buddy and remaining aware of the buddy's condition at all times can help avoid these difficulties.\n\nWhen snorkeling on or near coral reefs, care must be exercised to avoid contact with the delicate (and sometimes sharp or stinging) coral, and its poisonous inhabitants, usually by wearing protective gloves and being careful of one's environment. Coral scrapes and cuts often require specialized first aid treatment and potentially, emergency medical treatment to avoid infection. Booties and surf shoes are especially useful as they allow trekking over reefs exposed by low tide, to access drop-offs or deeper waters of the outer reef - this is, however, ecologically irresponsible.\n\nContact with coral should always be avoided, because even boulder corals are fragile.\n\nAnother safety concern is interaction and contact with the marine life during encounters. While seals and sea turtles can seem harmless and docile, they can become alarmed if approached or feel threatened. Some creatures, like moray eels, can hide in coral crevices and holes and will bite fingers when there is too much prodding going on. For these reasons, snorkeling websites often recommend an \"observe but don't touch\" etiquette when snorkeling.\n\nSnorkeling is possible in almost any body of water, but snorkelers are most likely to be found in locations where there are minimal waves, warm water, and something particularly interesting to see near the surface.\n\nGenerally shallow reefs ranging from sea level to are favored by snorkelers. Deeper reefs can also be explored, but repeated breath-holding to dive to those depths limits the number of practitioners, and raises the bar on the required fitness and skill level. Risk increases with increased depth and duration of the breath-hold excursions from the surface.\n\n\nUnderwater photography has become more and more popular since the early 2000s, resulting on millions of pictures posted every year on various websites and social media. This mass of documentation is endowed with an enormous scientific potential, as millions of tourists possess a much superior coverage power than professional scientists, who can not allow themselves to spend so much time in the field. \nAs a consequence, several participative sciences programs have been developped, supported by geo-localization and identification web sites, along with protocols for auto-organization and self-teaching aimed at biodiversity-interested snorkelers, in order for them to turn their observations into sound scientific data, available for research. This kind of approach has been successfully used in Réunion island, allowing for tens of new records and even new species.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43841826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43841826", "title": "Speedaway", "text": "Speedaway\n\nSpeedaway pronounced (speed -‘A’-way ball) is a game composed of 11 players on each team that combines soccer, football, and basketball. Originally created by Physical Education teacher Marjorie A. Larsen. Although there is no official league, Speedaway is played in physical education classes 6th-12th grade worldwide. When players are well versed in the game, there’s a constant movement of the ball between feet and hands on a huge pitch either indoor or outdoor. Only a soccer ball is needed to play the game, ensuring that anyone can pick-up and play the game with no need for expensive equipment.\nThe game is fast, challenging and should make a significant contribution to any player’s physical fitness.\n\nThe objective of Speedaway is to take the ball from one side of the field to the other in order to score points. Active players must implement a soft touch rule to make game play fair amongst various sizes and ages. No rough play is permitted during game play.\n\nSpeedaway was originated as a game for girls by Marjorie Larsen in California and the first rule book was published in 1950. It’s a field team game and is a combination of soccer, basketball, and field hockey, with an opportunity to run with the ball. At its peak, Speedaway has grown in popularity throughout the United States, Canada, England, and India and is now being played by both boys and girls, with thousands of school children playing the game. Speedaway was developed out of a need for a lead-up sport to field hockey and for a game that could bring enjoyment and satisfaction to participants without a great deal of time spent in learning complicated rules and special techniques.\n\nSpeedaway is played on a normal American Football field shown to the right or soccer field. A full adult (size 5) soccer ball is used as the ball since its flexible to kick, dribble, and throw. If played on a soccer field, cones can be set up on designated areas to decrease the size of the field.\n\nEach team consists of 11 players as in soccer. They are further broken down into 5 forwards, 3 midfielders, 2 defenders, and 1 goalie. The forwards job is primarily to score points, the midfielder’s job is to assist the forwards as well as the defenders. The goalie’s job is to protect the goal against scoring, while the defenders protect his or her respective side as well as aiding the goalie in protecting the home side.\n\nThe game starts off with a coin toss. When a team is kicking off they must be on their side of the midline, the opposing team must be on the opposite side of the midline and outside the circle. Whichever team wins the toss will start with the ball in the middle of the field. Speedaway uses a soccer ball which may be moved down the field on the ground as in soccer, or by passing through the air similar to football. When an offensive player has possession of the ball and an opponent tags or simply touches him or her, the player must instantly drop the ball and give possession to the defending team. The team that gains possession must now kick the ball from where it was dropped. To pass the ball to a teammate, one may kick, throw, or bounce pass accordingly. When bounce passing to another teammate the ball can only hit the ground once. If the ball bounces more than one time the team with possession cannot pick the ball back up. When the ball is kicked or thrown out of bounds, the team that last touched the ball loses possession and the opposite team may throw or kick the ball into the field. Only the goalie can pick up the ball with his or her hands at any give time. All players, beside the goalie, have to kick the ball up to themselves from the ground in order to run with the ball or make aerial passes. Each team has three time-outs they may use during the game. Any player with possession of the ball may call time-out when the ball is dead or when someone is injured. The game is broken down into four quarters and two halves each quarter being ten minutes long, making the game forty minutes. Speedaway ball is officiated by two referees, each official is responsible for each half of the field. Their responsibilities include: stopping the game after each quarter, calling fouls, and out of bounds plays. Officials must place the ball before kick offs and have the authority to remove players from play who are being too aggressive, in their own judgement.\n\nThere are three different ways to score in Speedaway ball. The first is by a field goal worth 3 points, which is when a player kicks the ball through the opponent's two uprights. The second way a player can score is by kicking the ball into the goal below the crossbar, which is worth 2 points. The final way to score is when a player runs the ball through the opponent’s goal line, similar to a Touchdown, worth 1 point.\n\nA team is penalized when one or more of the following occur:\n\n1) A player with the ball is tagged by the defense and does not immediately drop the ball.\n\n2) The ball is illegally picked up from the ground following a change of possession.\n\n3) A player fouls an opponent, by hitting, shoving, or by performing any sort of roughness.\nWhen any of the following penalties takes place, a free kick is placed 10 yards in front of the goal with the goalie defending. A player has one shot to score one point with a free kick.\n"}
{"id": "57994338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57994338", "title": "Superbru", "text": "Superbru\n\nSuperbru is a sports prediction website, founded in 2006, owned by SportEngage Ltd. Predictions generally revolve around major competitions such as the FIFA World Cup, English Premier League,\nor Wimbledon, across different sports, such as Rugby League and Cycling.\n\nSuperbru has been used to show how data scientists can correctly predict scores; such as \"Principa\" correctly predicting 99.5% of scores from the 2015 Rugby World Cup. As of 2018, Superbru has over 1.5 million registered users.\n\nSuperBru was founded in 2001 as a Super 12's prediction game, in the University of Cape Town, as a paper based league. In 2003, the game was merged online, with access not available to the public. In 2006, Superbru was opened; with financial support from web design company \"Nevado\", and later created a United Kingdom version, called \"Sports Guru\". In 2011, Superbru moved away from Nevado, creating \"SportsEngage\", financing the website.\n\n"}
{"id": "7127218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7127218", "title": "Tema Sports Stadium", "text": "Tema Sports Stadium\n\nRobert Mensah Sports Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Tema, Ghana. It used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Tema Youth and Real Sportive. The stadium holds 5,000 people. It was an artificial pitch the African Cup of Nations 2008, by the tournament called as Tema Sports Stadium.\n"}
{"id": "920280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=920280", "title": "The Dell, Southampton", "text": "The Dell, Southampton\n\nThe Dell in Milton Road, Southampton, Hampshire, England was the home ground of Southampton F.C. between 1898 and 2001.\n\nSince 1896, Southampton had been tenants of Hampshire County Cricket Club at the County Ground, having vacated the Antelope Ground in the summer of 1896. The rent payable to the cricket club (£200 p.a.) was putting a strain on the football club's finances and, in an attempt to reduce this burden, the club had considered a merger with the Freemantle club and a move to their ground in Shirley. The merger proposals had fallen through, but at the Extraordinary general meeting in June 1897, the members were informed that \"the committee had a ground in view\".\n\nAt a shareholders' meeting on 11 November 1897, the chairman stated:. . . that all being well, by next season the company would be in possession of its own ground which was at the present time in the hands of George Thomas Esq. who was devoting his time to its early completion. Although the minutes do not record the location of the new ground, it was common knowledge within the town that the new ground was situated. . . in the dell that is not far from the County Ground, and nearer West Station and the town, and at the present time it is a narrow valley with a stone culvert running along the bottom. It will not be a large ground, but the natural banks on all sides will be a great help in arranging for the convenience of the spectators.\n\nThe site on which the ground was built was described in Philip Brannon's \"Picture of Southampton\", published in 1850, as \"a lovely dell with a gurgling stream and lofty aspens\"; the stream is the Rollsbrook which flows out of Southampton Common, running parallel to Hill Lane before now disappearing under Commercial Road and the Central Station, from where it is conduited under Southampton Docks into Southampton Water. The land had been purchased in the 1880s by the Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway to enable them to continue their line from Winchester via Twyford, Chandlers Ford, a tunnel at Chilworth and Shirley where it was to pass to the North East of what is now St James' Park, Southampton and St. James' Church. From here the line would have travelled south across Hill Lane to run through the dell and onto an embankment leading to a viaduct over Commercial Road and the London and South Western Railway line before terminating on the Western Esplanade North of the Royal Pier., The dell was stripped of vegetation and the stream channelled into a conduit with work started on the embankment, which survives behind property to the North of Commercial Road but was never used, and the viaduct which was part built but later demolished. The project was abandoned at this point and agreement reached to connected to the London and South Western Railway at Shawford Junction with running rights into Southampton.\n\nGeorge Thomas, a fish merchant who had been appointed as a director of the limited company when it was formed in the summer of 1896, who lived in Shirley, saw the potential of the cleared site and purchased the land from the D.N.S.R. By the beginning of the 1898–99 season, Thomas had incurred expenditure of between £7,500 and £9,000 on acquiring and clearing the site, and erecting the new stands and had agreed an initial three-year lease to the football club at a rental of £250 p.a. The dell had been drained with 13,000 ft of pipe being laid, all draining into the central culvert formed from the Rollsbrook stream. The playing field had to be levelled and the ground made up and turfed ready for the opening of the new season. On completion, the stadium was described in the \"Southampton Observer\":. . . the rising staging on the north side of the ground will hold 5,500 spectators, who have of course to stand up; the covered east and west stands will seat 4,000 spectators comfortably, and the staging and sloping bank on the south side will hold 15,000 spectators. This totals up to 24,500.\n\nAt this stage, the new ground did not have an official name, with various names suggested including the \"Fitzhugh Dell\", the \"Archer's Ground\" and \"Milton Park\" but gradually the ground became known by default as \"the Dell\".\n\nThe stadium was opened in September 1898, with the inaugural match on 3 September being against Brighton United. The first goal at the stadium was scored by Watty Keay, with the others from Abe Hartley, Jim McKenzie and Tom Smith, as Southampton won 4–1. It hosted an international match in 1901, as England defeated Ireland 3–0 in the 1900–01 British Home Championship.\n\nIn 1927, the original West Stand was demolished (together with the club secretary's house) and the new West Stand was built. This was designed by Archibald Leitch, one of the greatest football stand designers of the day, who had also designed stands at Fratton Park, Roker Park and at Goodison Park. A year later, on the last day of the 1928–29 season a dropped cigarette caused a fire which destroyed the East Stand. A replacement stand was built which mirrored the West Stand, increasing the ground capacity to approximately 30,000.\n\nOn 30 November 1940, a German bomb fell on the stadium during the Blitz, creating an 18-foot crater in the Milton Road penalty area. While the pitch was being restored, Southampton had to play their remaining fixtures in 1940–41 away, although in February 1941, they played a \"home\" War Cup tie with Brentford at Fratton Park, Portsmouth.\n\nIn March 1941, an explosion of munitions stored at the ground caused a major fire in the West Stand although this was rebuilt soon afterwards.\n\nAt the start of the 1941–42 season they played their home games at Dew Lane, Eastleigh, before the Dell was re-opened in October 1941.\n\nIn 1950, the Dell became the first ground in England to have permanent floodlighting installed. The first game played under the lights was on 31 October 1950, in a friendly against Bournemouth & Boscombe Athletic, followed a year later by the first \"official\" match under floodlights, a Football Combination (Reserve team) match against Tottenham Hotspur on 1 October 1951.\n\nDuring the post-war years, huge crowds packed into the Dell. The attendance record was broken on 8 October 1969, when 31,044 watched Southampton lose 3–0 to a Manchester United team which included George Best and Bobby Charlton. The stadium hosted First Division football for the first time in the 1966-67 season, and would do so for all but four of the 35 seasons leading up to its closure. During this time, Southampton won the FA Cup in 1976, and achieved their highest league finish of second place in 1984.\n\nIn the 1980s, there were several changes at the ground, with the makeshift \"chocolate boxes\" at the Milton Road end being replaced by a new stand used for family ticket holders a two level concrete structure. The standing areas under the East and West stands being fitted with bench seats, before the Dell became an all-seater stadium in the early 1990s in the wake of the Hillsborough disaster on 15 April 1989, which obliged all clubs in the top two English divisions had all-seater stadiums. New stands were erected at both ends of the stadium, but by the 1993–94 season the stadium now had a capacity of just over 15,000, the smallest in the top level of English football. The Milton Road Stand was notable for its wedge-like appearance.\n\nBy this time, Southampton were looking for a new home. By the mid-1990s it seemed as if the search was over as the club announced plans to move to a new stadium at Monks Brook playing fields near the village of North Stoneham, Eastleigh. However, the club fell into a dispute with the local council about the lack of community facilities. Many people in Eastleigh were also unhappy with having another town's football club in their area. The dispute was resolved when the chairman, Rupert Lowe, declared new plans for the club to move to a new 32,000-seat stadium, for a cost of £32 million, on Brittania Road on the banks of the River Itchen. The move was confirmed at the end of the 1998–99 season (when Southampton achieved a late escape from relegation for the sixth time in eight seasons) and work began soon afterwards.\n\nThe new St Mary's Stadium was ready for the 2001–02 season.\n\nOn 19 May 2001, midfielder Matthew Le Tissier (who retired from playing a year later) said goodbye to the stadium that had been host to his entire professional career by scoring a volley in the final minutes of the final league game securing a 3–2 win against Arsenal. Le Tissier thus has the distinction of scoring the last competitive goal at The Dell.\n\nOn 26 May, the club's fans said goodbye to the Dell by stripping all of its seats, the pitch and even an advertising board after Southampton's last game at the stadium, a 1-0 victory in a friendly against Brighton and Hove Albion, the first and last opponents at the stadium. The last goal ever scored at the Dell was by Uwe Rösler.\n\nThe last confirmed hat-trick scored at the Dell was by Bryn Thomas on the 4th of May 2001 when the dell hosted the first 'Football Aid' charity event involving ex-Southampton players.\n\nDuring its 103-year life, the Dell had been home to Southampton during some of its finest moments – most of all during the 1976 FA Cup run, which finished with a win at Wembley.\n\nThe Dell was demolished later, completed on Friday 13 July 2001 by Portsmouth-based demolition company, Hughes & Salvidge. A housing estate was later built on the site by Barratt Homes. The apartment blocks on the site bear the names of former Southampton players:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1470075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470075", "title": "The Fumble", "text": "The Fumble\n\nIn American football, The Fumble was a play in the 1987 AFC Championship Game between the Browns and Broncos on January 17, 1988 at Mile High Stadium. With 1:12 left in the game, Browns running back Earnest Byner fumbled on the Broncos 1 yard line while trying to score a touchdown to pull within one point. The Broncos went on to win 38–33 after taking an intentional safety.\n\nThe same two teams had met in the previous AFC Championship Game. That game also ended in victory for the Broncos and featured a famous five-minute, 98-yard touchdown drive led by quarterback John Elway, known simply as The Drive, to take the game into overtime. \n\nDuring the game, the Broncos jumped to a 21–3 halftime lead, but Browns' quarterback Bernie Kosar led them back with four second-half touchdowns. By the middle of the fourth quarter, the game was tied at 31. The Broncos then took the lead on a long drive that ended with a 20-yard touchdown pass from Elway to running back Sammy Winder, making it 38–31 with 6 minutes left. Cleveland responded by advancing the ball to Denver's 8-yard line with 1:12 left, setting the stage for the play that made this game one of the most famous in NFL lore.\n\nBrowns running back Earnest Byner took the handoff and appeared to be on his way to score the game-tying touchdown, but was stripped by Broncos defensive back Jeremiah Castille at the one-yard line. Denver recovered, gave the Browns an intentional safety, and went on to win 38–33.\n\nOn ESPN Classic's \"The Fumble, the Story of the 1987 AFC Championship\", the Browns' then-head coach Marty Schottenheimer analyzed the play, showing that the fumble was not entirely Byner's fault. Schottenheimer stated: \"The Browns' wide receiver #84, Webster Slaughter is supposed to take ten steps then block Castille to the outside. Instead, he wanted to watch the play.\"\n\nCastille said: \"I was thinking, 'I got burned the last time I tried to bump-and-run [Slaughter]', so instead I stepped back six-to-eight yards before the snap, so I could better see the play unfold. I saw it was a draw play and that Byner had the ball. I remember thinking that Byner ran all over us that entire second half, so there was no way I was going to tackle him. Instead, I went for the ball the whole time.\"\n\nSchottenheimer continued: \"Earnest never saw Castille coming. Earnest was the reason we were still in the game at that point. He had several heroic runs and catches over the course of the second half that allowed us to have a chance to tie the game at 38. All of these heroics, unfortunately, were overshadowed by a single draw play from the eight-yard line.\"\n\nDick Enberg, the play-by-play announcer of the broadcast on NBC, noted: \"And wasn't it ironic that Denver got the ball back on the two-yard line? Wasn't it just one year ago where the Broncos were on their own two before putting together what became 'The Drive'?\"\n\nESPN Page Two writer Bill Simmons used \"The Fumble\" as an argument for why the Browns should be considered one of the most cursed franchises in sports. He also describes their fan base as \"tortured\" following this play. His article, \"The Levels of Losing,\" appeared January 29, 2010.\n\nDespite being primarily remembered for \"The Fumble\", Byner had a relatively successful career. After spending another year with the Browns, he was traded to the Washington Redskins prior to the start of the 1989 season for running back Mike Oliphant. In his five seasons with Washington, Byner was selected to play in the Pro Bowl twice (1990, 1991) and won a Super Bowl in the 1991 season. In that season's Super Bowl XXVI, he caught a touchdown pass in the second quarter, and the Redskins won, giving him the NFL Championship ring he could not win with the Browns.\n\nHe ended up going back to Cleveland for two more years, and finished his career in 1998, after spending two years with the transplanted Baltimore Ravens. In his 14 NFL seasons, Byner rushed for 8,261 yards, caught 512 passes for 4,605 yards, and scored 72 total touchdowns (56 rushing, 15 receiving, one fumble recovery). At the time of his retirement, Byner ranked within the NFL's top 30 all-time leaders in rushing attempts, rushing touchdowns, rushing yards, and total yards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23713760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23713760", "title": "Two-point conversion", "text": "Two-point conversion\n\nIn American and Canadian football, a two-point conversion or two-point convert is a play a team attempts instead of kicking a one-point conversion immediately after it scores a touchdown. In a two-point conversion attempt, the team that just scored must run a play from scrimmage close to the opponent's goal line (5-yard line in amateur Canadian, 3-yard line in professional Canadian, 3-yard line in amateur American, 2-yard line in professional American; in professional American football, there is a small dash to denote the line of scrimmage for a two-point conversion; it was the previous line of scrimmage for a point after kick until 2014) and advance the ball across the goal line in the same manner as if they were scoring a touchdown. If the team succeeds, it earns two additional points on top of the six points for the touchdown, for a total of eight points. If the team fails, no additional points are scored. In either case, if any time remains in the half, the team proceeds to a kickoff.\n\nVarious sources estimate the success rate of a two-point conversion to be between 40% and 55%, significantly lower than that of the extra point, though if the higher value is to be believed, a higher expected value is achieved through the two-point conversion than the extra point.\n\nThe two-point conversion rule has been used in college football and more recently in Canadian amateur football and the Canadian Football League situations in college football, the two-point conversion is the mandatory method of scoring after a touchdown beginning with the third overtime, and in the CFL it is mandatory at any point in overtime.\n\nThe American Football League (AFL) used the two-point conversion during its ten-season existence from 1960 to 1969. After the NFL merged with the AFL, the rule did not immediately carry over to the merged league, though they experimented in 1968 with a compromise rule (see below). The NFL adopted the two-point conversion rule in , 25 years after the merger. Tom Tupa scored the first two-point conversion in NFL history, running in a faked extra point attempt for the Cleveland Browns in a game against the Cincinnati Bengals in the first week of the 1994 season. He scored a total of three such conversions that season, earning him the nickname \"Two Point Tupa\". That same season, the first successful two-point conversion in Super Bowl history came during Super Bowl XXIX when San Diego Charger Mark Seay caught a pass thrown by Stan Humphries.\n\nThe NFL's developmental league, NFL Europe (and its former entity, the World League of American Football), adopted the two-point conversion rule for its entire existence from 1991 through 2007.\n\nSix-man football reverses the extra point and the two-point conversion: because there is no offensive line in that game variant, making kick protection more difficult, plays from scrimmage are worth one point but successful kicks are worth two. It is also reversed in many high school football and youth football leagues, since there are not often skilled kickers at that level. A variant of this, especially at the youth level, is to allow one point for a running conversion, two points for a passing conversion, and two points for a successful kick.\n\nThe Arena Football League has recognized the two-point conversion for its entire existence (in both its original 1987–2008 incarnation and its ongoing revival), allowing for either a play from scrimmage or a drop kick to be worth two points. (The additional extra point for a drop kick is unique to arena football.)\n\nIn 1968, leading up to the AFL-NFL merger, the leagues developed a radical \"compromise\" rule that would reconcile the fact that the NFL did not recognize the two-point conversion but the AFL did: the relatively easy extra point kick would be eliminated and only a play from scrimmage would score one point called a \"Pressure Point\". The rule would be used for the interleague matchups for that preseason, and would not be tried again. Both the World Football League and the XFL revived this concept, making it a point not to institute a two-point conversion rule so as to eliminate the easy kick. What would constitute a two-point conversion in other leagues only counted one point in the AFL-NFL games, WFL, or XFL. The WFL called it the \"Action Point\", used after touchdowns which the WFL counted as seven points. However, the XFL later added a rule in the playoffs that allowed the scoring team to score two (or even three) points by successfully executing a play from a point farther from the opponent's end zone (two points if the team could score from the five-yard line and three points if they could score from the ten-yard line).\n\nDuring the summer of 2014, the conversion by place kick was under review by the NFL. This new format would award seven points for a touchdown without an extra point attempt, eight points with a successful conversion by running or passing, and six points with an unsuccessful attempt. This new format was proposed because of the almost certain probability of making a conversion by place kick (1,260 out of 1,265 for the 2013 season). This proposal was never considered at the league owners' meeting in spring 2014; instead, the league used the first two weeks of its preseason for an experiment that moved extra point attempts back to the 20-yard line with the condition that if a team opted to attempt a two-point conversion instead, the line of scrimmage on the try would remain at the 2-yard line. The league adopted a slightly modified version of this rule starting with the 2015 season, with the line of scrimmage for extra-point kick attempts at the 15-yard line instead of the 20; that same year, the CFL also moved back its line of scrimmage for converts to the 25-yard line (while moving the scrimmage line for a two-point convert ahead two yards to the 3-yard line), thus making the length for an extra-point attempt the same length in both the NFL and CFL (taking into account the NFL positioning their goalposts on the end line, and the CFL's on the goal line).\n\nIn American college, professional, and Canadian football (as well as, for a significant period of time, the Arena Football League, where missed extra points are rebounded back into the field of play), a conversion attempt where the defense gains possession of the ball can be returned by the defense to the other end zone to give the \"defensive\" team two points. The team that scored the touchdown then kicks off as normal. This is rare because of the infrequent use of the two-point conversion and the rarity of blocked conversion kicks, combined with the difficulty of returning the ball the full length of the field. It has proven the winning margin in some games. Only once has a player scored two defensive two-point conversions in a game: Tony Holmes of the Texas Longhorns in a 1998 Big 12 Conference game against the Iowa State Cyclones on October 3.\n\nOn May 19, 2015, the NFL owners adopted a proposal to permit a defensive two-point conversion for the season. On May 20, 2016, the owners adopted a proposal called the 2 point fair play rule. This prevents a defense from getting a turnover during a 2 point conversion and then purposefully committing a “free” penalty to increase a chance at a 2 point return. If the defense is able to gain a takeaway and then commits a penalty, the opposing coach will have the option to accept the penalty and skip the kickoff. It has not yet been used in the NFL, but a similar rule has been used on two occasions in the CFL.\n\nStephone Anthony of the New Orleans Saints became the first NFL player to score a defensive two-point conversion; he returned a blocked extra point kick from Graham Gano of the Carolina Panthers on December 6, 2015.\n\nOn December 4, , Eric Berry of the Kansas City Chiefs became the first NFL player to return an interception for a defensive two-point conversion; it was thrown by quarterback Matt Ryan of the Atlanta Falcons.\n\nThe NCAA has allowed defensive two-point conversions in college football since the 1988 season.\n\nHigh schools that follow the rules of the National Federation of State High School Associations (all U.S. high schools except those in Texas and Massachusetts, which use NCAA rules instead) do not allow defensive runbacks of recovered conversion attempts, and any recovery of the ball by the defense during the try is immediately blown dead and ruled merely as \"no good.\"\n\nRules in high school, college and professional football dictate that when a safety occurs during a two-point conversion or point-after kick (officially known in the rulebooks as a try), it is worth one point. It can be scored by the offense in college and professional football (following an NFL rule change in 2015) if the defense obtains possession of a live ball in the field of play, propels the ball (by carrying it or fumbling it) into its own end zone, and then is downed there with the defense in possession of the ball. This event has only occurred twice in NCAA Division I history. Before 2015, the only scenario in which a one-point safety could have been scored in the NFL would have involved the defense kicking or batting a loose ball out the back of the end zone without taking possession of it.\n\nA conversion safety could be earned by the defense if the offense retreated with the ball all the way back into its own end zone; most plausibly this would involve a fumble at some point during the play. Two potential scenarios include an errant snap or a fumble that is bobbled repeatedly until the offensive team recovers the ball in, or bats the ball through, its own end zone (similar situations have been documented in regular play from scrimmage and are more likely in arena football with its much shorter, narrower and bounded field of play), or, in the college and professional game, a defender attempting a defensive two-point conversion, fumbling the ball and having the offensive team recover in their own end zone. Although such a conversion safety has never been scored by the defense, this rule provides the only way in American football that a team could finish the game with a score of one point. (Canadian football allows another one-point play called the single or rouge).\n\nThe high school football rulebook acknowledges the conversion safety, awarding one point for it, but also immediately ends a play if the opposing team gains possession of the ball, a rule similar to the one the NFL used before 2015. Thus, any situation that requires the defense to gain possession of the ball could not result in a conversion safety in games where that rulebook is used.\n\nCoaches' choices of whether to attempt a one- or two-conversions will depend on a number of factors: the game's current scoreline, the amount of time remaining, and their assessment of their team's chances of success.\n\nAnalysis of historical data finds that the two-point conversion is successful about half the time, whereas one-point kicks are almost always successful. As such, the expected value of both options is roughly similar, with the critical factor being whether the chance of a successful two-point conversion is more or less than half that of a successful kick. However, the mathematics regarding maximizing a team's \"chances of winning\" are more complicated. For example, late in a game, a team that is one point up after a touchdown would gain little benefit from a one-point attempt, as, regardless of success, the team would still lose if the opposition scored a late field goal. In such a situation, the two-point conversion would be the better option, as this would mean — if successful — an opposition field goal would only tie the game.\n\nA more complicated scenario is when a team is trailing by eight points. The team could choose to go for two, because, if successful, the team could then kick an extra point following the next score to secure a win. On the other hand, if the two-point conversion fails, the team still has a chance to succeed on the next two-point conversion to get to fourteen. Mathematically, therefore, the minimum probability of converting a two-point try either on the first attempt (securing a win) \"or\" the second (securing a tie in regulation time) must be higher than the maximum probability of missing both (securing a loss). This occurs when the probability of missing both is 0.618 × 0.618, or 38.2%. As long as the probability of converting any individual two-point attempt is higher than 38.2% percent, it is optimal to adopt this strategy. Notably, Texas Longhorns coach Darrell Royal successfully used this strategy to defeat Arkansas in 1969's Game of the Century.\n\nAn analysis can be done for all situations, resulting in a table that can be consulted when a decision is needed. A chart made by UCLA offensive coordinator Dick Vermeil in the early 1970s is one of the most well-known. \n\nIn practice, two-point conversion attempts are rare, being done only after less than 1-in-10 touchdowns in the NFL. This proportion rose after the one-point kick was moved back to the 15-yard line, increasing the difficulty of scoring the single extra point.\n\nIn indoor versions of the sport, a two-point conversion is scored after a touchdown in the manner described above; that is, by running a play from scrimmage from the two-yard line in which the ball carrier succeeds in crossing the goal line while in possession of the ball, or the receiver makes a valid reception in the end zone or crosses the goal line in possession of the ball after having caught it in the field of play. In Arena football only, a successful drop kicked conversion also counts as a two-point conversion.\n"}
{"id": "39915850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39915850", "title": "Unbeatable (film)", "text": "Unbeatable (film)\n\nUnbeatable (激戰) is a 2013 Hong Kong–Chinese sports drama film directed by Dante Lam. The film had its premiere at the Shanghai International Film Festival on June 18, 2013.\n\nChing Fai (Nick Cheung) is a former boxing champion who has struggled since his glory days, having gone to prison over involvement with the Triads due to financial problems and now working as a taxi driver. When Triad loan sharks torch his taxi and chase him down for money he owed, Fai decides to flee to Macau to avoid them.\n\nIn Macau, Fai accepts a job offer from an old friend to work as an assistant in a gym, while renting a room with a feisty young girl Peidan (Crystal Lee), who has been taking care of her psychologically unstable mother (Mei Ting) since her four-year-old son drowned and her husband left her for another woman. At the gym, Fai meets a young man, Lin Siqi (Eddie Peng) who wishes to learn Mixed Martial Arts in order to join an upcoming MMA tournament, the \"Golden Rumble\", which offers the winner millions of dollars - his motivation for doing so is to help out his father, a businessman who had recently lost a fortune due to a failed \"flipping\" deal, which has turned him into a depressed drunkard. Fai agrees.\n\nFor the next several months before the tournament, Fai has Lin follow a strict training regimen, and at the same time he develops a bond with Peidan and her mother. After the tournament begins, Lin struggles but is able to beat several opponents, making it into the semi-finals, impressing both Fai and Lin's father, but also gets the attention of the Triads. Later, while celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival, loan sharks unexpectedly show up to attack Fai and Peidan's family. Fai fends them off, but Peidan is hurt in the process. As she is hospitalized, social services are also alerted to the fact that her mother is psychologically unfit to take care of a child. When she is told that Peidan's father is returning to take custody of Peidan, she violently assaults a social worker, immediately causing her to be placed into a mental hospital. At the same time, Lin faces his toughest opponent yet, and loses badly after his arm and neck are broken.\n\nBelieving that he has \"done nothing\" for twenty years, Fai decides to join the tournament himself and trains vigorously for it, and is selected to enter the finals. Peidan's father also comes to meet Fai, and although Fai feels indifferent towards him at first, the father tells him that Peidan has agreed to live with him, but only if Fai wins in the tournament. After a brutal fight watched by many, including Lin in the hospital, Fai ultimately emerges victorious (by taking advantage of his easily dislocated right shoulder), and Lin is so excited over the victory that he leaps out of his wheelchair, cured.\n\nWith his newly earned fortune, Fai pays off his loans and meets Peidan one last time, while also continuing to visit Peidan's mother. He later meets a now recovered Lin, and the two joke about the injuries that they have each endured in the ring.\n\n\nAn early title English-language title for the film was \"MMA\". The film was written by Jack Ng, Dante Lam and Fung Chi-fung. Ng and Lam had previously worked together on \"The Viral Factor\", \"The Stool Pigeon\", and \"Fire of Conscience\".\n\nThe film had premiered at the Shanghai International Film Festival on June 18, 2013. It was released in China on August 16, 2013.\n\nClarence Tsui of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" writes, \"It’s this mix of tears and laughter amidst the blood, sweat and broken necks that makes Unbeatable an enjoyable vehicle.\"\n\nAndrew Chan of the Film Critics Circle of Australia writes, \"\"Unbeatable\" is one of those films that never stops to excite, entertain, inspire and finally understand. It is an accomplished effort from a director very much in his prime and also bringing a veteran actor to even greater heights.\"\n\nKevin Ma of LoveHKFilm states that \"with a career-best performance by Nick Cheung, a script infused with great humor and MMA scenes that will please action fanboys, this sports drama is Dante Lam’s best film since \"The Beast Stalker\" and easily his most purely enjoyable to date. \"Unbeatable\" offers nothing new, but it’s solid genre entertainment.\" He informs audiences that \"\"Unbeatable\"’s selling point is mixed martial arts, but it’s really a character-driven drama about three troubled souls in Macau,\" using the words \"uplifting\" and \"inspiring\" to describe the film.\n\nBy 1 September 2013, \"Unbeatable\" has earned over HK$32.5 million in the box office of Hong Kong. It is the highest-grossing film of the summer and also the highest grossing locally produced film of 2013. Lead actor Cheung Ka-Fai said he will appear in eight cinemas to thank the cinema goers' support and drive the box office results further up. Near the end of September, the film has made over HK$43 million.\n"}
{"id": "6705465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6705465", "title": "Unión Tarija", "text": "Unión Tarija\n\nUnión Tarija is a Bolivian football team playing at Tarija Primera A, the 2nd division regional league. It is based in Tarija. Their home stadium is Estadio IV Centenário. The team played in the Liga de Fútbol Profesional Boliviano between 1999 and 2006.\n\nThe Club was founded on April 8, 1980 as the Club Unión Central.\n\n"}
{"id": "7257827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7257827", "title": "William Brazier", "text": "William Brazier\n\nWilliam Brazier (1755 at Cudham, Kent – 7 October 1829 at Cudham) was a noted English cricketer of the late 18th century who played mostly for Kent.\n\nBrazier is first recorded in the 1774 season and was probably a genuine debutant in that year, being aged 19 at the time. He was a good all rounder who bowled fast and was a powerful hitter.\n\nHe played for a left-handed team in 1790 but S&B says he was right-handed. He did not play during the years 1777 to 1781 inclusive, possibly because he was in the armed forces or otherwise employed away from Kent. According to S&B, he was a farmer at Cudham.\n\nWilliam Brazier made 53 known first-class appearances from 1774 to 1794 but he continued to play village cricket until 1819 when he would have been 64 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "43364544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43364544", "title": "Woodville Lacrosse Club", "text": "Woodville Lacrosse Club\n\nThe Woodville Lacrosse Club was founded in 1899 and is located in the north western suburbs of Adelaide.\n\nIn 1903, the name of the club was changed to Port Adelaide, by which it was known until 1966, until becoming once again known as Woodville.\n\nAs Port Adelaide, the Club had early success in 1904, finishing the season ahead of Sturt, who were the dominant club in South Australia at the time. Port Adelaide had additional success in 1931 and 1932, before having a golden era in the 1950s, featuring in 10 of 12 grand finals and winning four of them. There was a 39-year drought before success returned to the Club, this time as Woodville, with 8 premierships in 11 years including five in a row from 1998 to 2002.\n\nA Grade Premierships:\n\nAustralian Lacrosse Council (now ALA) Fellows Award:\n\nIsaachsen Trophy winners:\n\nBrady Award (Best and Fairest at the National Carnival):\n\nAustralian Club Champions\n\nOne of Woodville's finest players is Peter Inge, who represented Australia in World Championships in 1998, 2002 and 2006 as well as the national Under 19 team in 1996. At the 2002 World Lacrosse Championship, Inge was named in the All-Star Team. In 2003, Inge became the first Australian and first player without NCAA experience to be drafted to the professional Major League Lacrosse competition in the United States, where he was selected for the Boston Cannons. He played at Boston for three years before spending his fourth and final year in the MLL at the now-defunct San Francisco Dragons.\n\n"}
