{"id": "13570163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13570163", "title": "100 First Plaza", "text": "100 First Plaza\n\n100 First Plaza (also known as the Delta Dental Tower) is a 27-story, high-rise office building located at 100 First Street in the Financial District of San Francisco, California. Construction of the building was completed in 1988. It is the 30th-tallest building in the city. Skidmore, Owings & Merrill served as the design architects for the 100 First Plaza development that was designed with several setbacks, along with a grooved and faceted façade, and contains several rooftop curtain walls, and a notable spire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36830457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36830457", "title": "Abdelkebir Zahoud", "text": "Abdelkebir Zahoud\n\nAbdelkebir Zahoud ( – born 13 August 1961, Ouled Azzouz near Oued Zem) is a Moroccan businessman. From 2012 he has been an expert in water resources and the environment, and CEO of three companies.\n\n\nHe is married with four children.\n"}
{"id": "1168831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168831", "title": "Alaa Mubarak", "text": "Alaa Mubarak\n\nAlaa Mubarak (  ) (born 26 November 1960 in Cairo) is an Egyptian businessman and the elder of two sons of Hosni Mubarak, the former President of Egypt who served from 1981 to 2011, and his wife Suzanne Mubarak.\n\nAlaa Mubarak was born in Cairo to Suzanne Mubarak and Hosni Mubarak, who became President of Egypt in 1981, ousted in 2011. However, controversy sparked whether the two sons were called by their British names \" Alan and Jimmy\".\nAlaa attended St. George's College, Cairo and graduated from the American University in Cairo.\n\nMubarak has kept a much lower profile than his younger brother, Gamal, and was not involved in politics.\n\nIn 2011, he was arrested together with his father and brother, and he and his brother were released in October 2015. The EU had imposed sanctions on father and sons, and froze all assets that Mubarak disclosed.\n\nAlaa Mubarak has been named in association with the Panama Papers. In 2013, the British Virgin Islands financial services discovered that Ala Mubarak owned 'Pan World Investments', an investment fund for the Mubarak family of nearly $1 billion incorporated by Mossack Fonseca, who said he was introduced to them by Credit Suisse.\n\nIn September 2018, Alaa was arrested along with his brother Gamal, accused of manipulating the stock market.\n\nMubarak is married to Heddy Rasekh, and they have had two sons, Muhammad and Omar. Muhammad died on 18 May 2009, aged 12. It was announced that he had suffered a 'severe health crisis', a brain haemorrhage. He was checked into the Maadi Military Hospital for a couple of hours before being flown to Paris to no avail. His body was returned and buried in Cairo.\n"}
{"id": "6973884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6973884", "title": "Arbitration", "text": "Arbitration\n\nArbitration, a form of alternative dispute resolution (ADR), is a way to resolve disputes outside the courts. The dispute will be decided by one or more persons (the \"arbitrators\", \"arbiters\" or \"arbitral tribunal\"), which renders the \"arbitration award\". An arbitration award is legally binding on both sides and enforceable in the courts.\n\nArbitration is often used for the resolution of commercial disputes, particularly in the context of international commercial transactions. In certain countries such as the United States, arbitration is also frequently employed in consumer and employment matters, where arbitration may be mandated by the terms of employment or commercial contracts and may include a waiver of the right to bring a class action claim. Mandatory consumer and employment arbitration should be distinguished from consensual arbitration, particularly commercial arbitration.\n\nArbitration can be either voluntary or mandatory (although mandatory arbitration can only come from a statute or from a contract that one party imposes on the other, in which the parties agree to hold all existing or future disputes to arbitration, without necessarily knowing, specifically, what disputes will ever occur) and can be either binding or non-binding. Non-binding arbitration is similar to mediation in that a decision cannot be imposed on the parties. However, the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground on which to compromise, the (non-binding) arbiter remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of liability and, if appropriate, an indication of the quantum of damages payable. By one definition arbitration is binding and non-binding arbitration is therefore technically not arbitration.\n\nArbitration is a proceeding in which a dispute is resolved by an impartial adjudicator whose decision the parties to the dispute have agreed, or legislation has decreed, will be final and binding. There are limited rights of review and appeal of arbitration awards. Arbitration is not the same as: judicial proceedings (although in some jurisdictions, court proceedings are sometimes referred as arbitrations), alternative dispute resolution (ADR), expert determination, mediation (a form of settlement negotiation facilitated by a neutral third party).\n\nParties often seek to resolve disputes through arbitration because of a number of perceived potential advantages over judicial proceedings. Companies often require arbitration with their customers, but prefer the advantages of courts in disputes with competitors:\n\nSome of the disadvantages include:\n\nBy their nature, the subject matter of some disputes is not capable of arbitration. In general, two groups of legal procedures cannot be subjected to arbitration:\n\nArbitration agreements are generally divided into two types:\nThe former is the far more prevalent type of arbitration agreement. Sometimes, legal significance attaches to the type of arbitration agreement. For example, in certain Commonwealth countries (not including England and Wales), it is possible to provide that each party should bear their own costs in a conventional arbitration clause, but not in a submission agreement.\n\nIn keeping with the informality of the arbitration process, the law is generally keen to uphold the validity of arbitration clauses even when they lack the normal formal language associated with legal contracts. Clauses which have been upheld include:\n\nThe courts have also upheld clauses which specify resolution of disputes other than in accordance with a specific legal system. These include provision indicating:\n\nAgreements to refer disputes to arbitration generally have a special status in the eyes of the law. For example, in disputes on a contract, a common defence is to plead the contract is void and thus any claim based upon it fails. It follows that if a party successfully claims that a contract is void, then each clause contained within the contract, including the arbitration clause, would be void. However, in most countries, the courts have accepted that:\n\nArguably, either position is potentially unfair; if a person is made to sign a contract under duress, and the contract contains an arbitration clause highly favourable to the other party, the dispute may still referred to that arbitration tribunal. Conversely a court may be persuaded that the arbitration agreement itself is void having been signed under duress. However, most courts will be reluctant to interfere with the general rule which does allow for commercial expediency; any other solution (where one first had to go to court to decide whether one had to go to arbitration) would be self-defeating.\n\nNations regulate arbitration through a variety of laws. The main body of law applicable to arbitration is normally contained either in the national Private International Law Act (as is the case in Switzerland) or in a separate law on arbitration (as is the case in England and Jordan). In addition to this, a number of national procedural laws may also contain provisions relating to arbitration.\n\nThe Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) of 1925 established a public policy in favor of arbitration. For the first six decades of its existence, courts did not allow arbitration for \"federal statutory claims\" through a bright-line \"nonarbitrability\" doctrine, but in the 1980s the Supreme Court of the United States reversed and began to use the act to require arbitration if included in the contract for federal statutory claims. Although some legal scholars believe that it was originally intended to apply to federal courts only, courts now routinely require arbitration due to the FAA regardless of state statutes or public policy unconscionability determinations by state courts. In consumer law, standard form contracts often include mandatory predispute arbitration clauses which require consumer arbitration. Under these agreements the consumer may waive their right to a lawsuit and a class action. In 2011, one of these clauses was upheld in \"AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion\".\n\nSeveral arbitration organizations exist, including the American Arbitration Association and JAMS. The National Arbitration Forum also conducts arbitrations, but it no longer conducts consumer arbitrations pursuant to a consent decree entered into in 2009 because of evidence that it had been biased toward, and had incentives that favored, credit card companies over cardholders. The AAA was also asked to exit the business., but has not done so.\n\nThe United States and Great Britain were pioneers in the use of arbitration to resolve their differences. It was first used in the Jay Treaty of 1795, and played a major role in the Alabama Claims case of 1872 whereby major tensions regarding British support for the Confederacy during the American Civil War were resolved. At the First International Conference of American States in 1890, a plan for systematic arbitration was developed, but not accepted. The Hague Peace Conference of 1899, saw the major world powers agreed to a system of arbitration and the creation of a Permanent Court of Arbitration. President William Howard Taft was a major advocate. One important use came in the Newfoundland fisheries dispute between the United States and Britain in 1910. In 1911 the United States signed arbitration treaties with France and Britain.\n\nArbitration was widely discussed among diplomats and elites in the 1890-1914 era. The 1895 dispute between the United States and Britain over Venezuela was peacefully resolved through arbitration. Both nations realized that a mechanism was desirable to avoid possible future conflicts. The Olney-Pauncefote Treaty of 1897 was a proposed treaty between the United States and Britain in 1897 that required arbitration of major disputes. The treaty was rejected by the U.S. Senate and never went into effect.\n\nAmerican Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan (1913–1915) worked energetically to promote international arbitration agreements, but his efforts were frustrated by the outbreak of World War I. Bryan negotiated 28 treaties that promised arbitration of disputes before war broke out between the signatory countries and the United States. He made several attempts to negotiate a treaty with Germany, but ultimately was never able to succeed. The agreements, known officially as \"Treaties for the Advancement of Peace,\" set up procedures for conciliation rather than for arbitration. Arbitration treaties were negotiated after the war, but attracted much less attention than the negotiation mechanism created by the League of Nations.\n\nBy far the most important international instrument on arbitration law is the 1958 New York Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, usually simply referred to as the \"New York Convention\". Virtually every significant commercial country is a signatory, and only a handful of countries are not parties to the New York Convention.\n\nSome other relevant international instruments are:\n\nIt is often easier to enforce arbitration awards in a foreign country than court judgments. Under the New York Convention 1958, an award issued in a contracting state can generally be freely enforced in any other contracting state, only subject to certain, limited defenses. Only foreign arbitration awards are enforced pursuant to the New York Convention. An arbitral decision is foreign where the award was made in a state other than the state of recognition or where foreign procedural law was used. In most cases, these disputes are settled with no public record of their existence as the loser complies voluntarily, although in 2014 UNCITRAL promulgated a rule for public disclosure of investor-state disputes.\n\nVirtually every significant commercial country in the world is a party to the Convention while relatively few countries have a comprehensive network for cross-border enforcement of judgments their courts. Additionally, the awards not limited to damages. Whereas typically only monetary judgments by national courts are enforceable in the cross-border context, it is theoretically possible (although unusual in practice) to obtain an enforceable order for specific performance in an arbitration proceeding under the New York Convention.\n\nArticle V of the New York Convention provides an exhaustive list of grounds on which enforcement can be challenged. These are generally narrowly construed to uphold the pro-enforcement bias of the Convention.\n\nCertain international conventions exist in relation to the enforcement of awards against states.\n\nThe arbitrators which determine the outcome of the dispute are called the arbitral tribunal. The composition of the arbitral tribunal can vary enormously, with either a sole arbitrator sitting, two or more arbitrators, with or without a chairman or umpire, and various other combinations. In most jurisdictions, an arbitrator enjoys immunity from liability for anything done or omitted whilst acting as arbitrator unless the arbitrator acts in bad faith.\n\nArbitrations are usually divided into two types: \"ad hoc\" arbitrations and administered arbitrations.\n\nIn \"ad hoc\" arbitrations, the arbitral tribunals are appointed by the parties or by an appointing authority chosen by the parties. After the tribunal has been formed, the appointing authority will normally have no other role and the arbitration will be managed by the tribunal.\n\nIn administered arbitration, the arbitration will be administered by a professional arbitration institution providing arbitration services, such as the LCIA in London, or the ICC in Paris, or the American Arbitration Association in the United States. Normally the arbitration institution also will be the appointing authority. Arbitration institutions tend to have their own rules and procedures, and may be more formal. They also tend to be more expensive, and, for procedural reasons, slower.\n\nThe duties of a tribunal will be determined by a combination of the provisions of the arbitration agreement and by the procedural laws which apply in the seat of the arbitration. The extent to which the laws of the seat of the arbitration permit \"party autonomy\" (the ability of the parties to set out their own procedures and regulations) determines the interplay between the two.\n\nHowever, in almost all countries the tribunal owes several non-derogable duties. These will normally be:\n\nAlthough arbitration awards are characteristically an award of damages against a party, in many jurisdictions tribunals have a range of remedies that can form a part of the award. These may include:\n\nGenerally speaking, by their nature, arbitration proceedings tend not to be subject to appeal, in the ordinary sense of the word. However, in most countries, the court maintains a supervisory role to set aside awards in extreme cases, such as fraud or in the case of some serious legal irregularity on the part of the tribunal. Only domestic arbitral awards are subject to set aside procedure.\n\nIn American arbitration law there exists a small but significant body of case law which deals with the power of the courts to intervene where the decision of an arbitrator is in fundamental disaccord with the applicable principles of law or the contract. However, this body of case law has been called into question by recent decisions of the Supreme Court.\n\nUnfortunately there is little agreement amongst the different American judgments and textbooks as to whether such a separate doctrine exists at all, or the circumstances in which it would apply. There does not appear to be any recorded judicial decision in which it has been applied. However, conceptually, to the extent it exists, the doctrine would be an important derogation from the general principle that awards are not subject to review by the courts.\n\nThe overall costs of arbitration can be estimated on the websites of international arbitration institutions, such as that of the ICC, the website of the SIAC and the website of the International Arbitration Attorney Network. The overall cost of administrative and arbitrator fees is, on average, less than 20% of the total cost of international arbitration.\n\nIn many legal systems - both common law and civil law - it is normal practice for the courts to award legal costs against a losing party, with the winner becoming entitled to recover an approximation of what it spent in pursuing its claim (or in defense of a claim). The United States is a notable exception to this rule, as except for certain extreme cases, a prevailing party in a US legal proceeding does not become entitled to recoup its legal fees from the losing party.\n\nLike the courts, arbitral tribunals generally have the same power to award costs in relation to the determination of the dispute. In international arbitration as well as domestic arbitrations governed by the laws of countries in which courts may award costs against a losing party, the arbitral tribunal will also determine the portion of the arbitrators' fees that the losing party is required to bear.\n\nAs methods of dispute resolution, arbitration procedure can be varied to suit the needs of the parties. Certain specific \"types\" of arbitration procedure have developed, particularly in North America.\n\n\nSuch forms of \"Last Offer Arbitration\" can also be combined with mediation to create MEDALOA hybrid processes (Mediation followed by Last Offer Arbitration).\n\nArbitration in its common law form developed in England; in the Middle Ages, tribunals such as the Courts of the Boroughs, of the Fair and of the Staple arose as the Royal Courts were not designed for trade disputes, and trade with foreigners was otherwise unenforceable. In the mid-16th century, common law courts developed contract law and the Admiralty court became accessible for disputes with foreign merchants, broadening the venues for trade disputes. Courts became suspicious of arbitration; for example, in \"Kill v. Hollister\" (1746), an English court ruled that the arbitration agreement could 'oust' courts of law and equity of jurisdiction. Merchants, however, retained provisions to settle disputes among themselves, but tension between the arbitration proceedings and courts eventually resulted in the Common Law Procedure Act 1854 which provided for the appointment of arbitrators and umpires, allowed courts to 'stay proceedings' when a disputant filed a suit despite an agreement to arbitrate, and provided a process for arbitrators to submit questions to a court. Later, the Arbitration Act 1889 was passed, followed by other Arbitration Acts in 1950, 1975, 1979 and 1996. Arbitration Act 1979 in particular limited judicial review for arbitration awards.\n\nArbitration was common in the early United States, with George Washington serving as an arbiter on an occasion. The United States had a notable difference from England, however, in that unlike England, its courts generally did not enforce executory agreements (binding predispute agreements) to arbitrate. This meant that prior to an award, a claimant could sue in court even if they had contractually agreed to settle disputes by arbitration. After the award, courts reviewed the judgment, but generally deferred to the arbitration, although the practice was not consistent.\n\nThe lack of enforcement of predispose agreements led to the Federal Arbitration Act of 1925, with New York leading with a state law enforcing predispose agreements. In 1921, the American Bar Association drafted the Federal Arbitration Act based on the New York law, which was passed in 1925 with minor changes. In the next decade, the American Arbitration Association promoted rules and facilitated arbitrations through appointments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38866058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38866058", "title": "Bankruptcy tourism", "text": "Bankruptcy tourism\n\nBankruptcy tourism is the phenomenon whereby residents of one country move to another jurisdiction in order to declare a personal bankruptcy there, before returning to their original country of residence. This is done in order facilitate bankruptcy in a new jurisdiction where the insolvency laws are deemed to be more favourable. It is most prevalent in Europe where EU laws allow the free movement of residents to other Eurozone countries. Once in the new jurisdiction a person seeking bankruptcy must establish their Centre of Main Interests there in order to qualify as a resident and, therefore, petition for a successful bankruptcy.\n\nThe issue of bankruptcy tourism has gained notoriety in the Republic of Ireland due to the recession and property crash there resulting in high levels of debt and personal insolvencies. However, the phenomenon first emerged in the UK in 2009 when it was reported that German and Austrian nationals were moving to Kent in order to take advantage of bankruptcy laws in England and Wales, whilst residing close to Eurostar.\n\nFor a discussion of how the English courts have sought to tackle the phenomenon of bankruptcy tourism see: http://abg-law.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Bankruptcy-Tourism-Article-June-2014.pdf\n\nBankruptcy tourism is now more synonymous with the Republic of Ireland where it has become a high profile issue with one UK-based insolvency solicitor, Steve Thatcher, claiming recently that he had recently written off €1bn in Irish debt for his Irish clients in the UK. The level of Irish debt being written off in the UK has prompted the government there to seek to have EU law amended in order to make it harder for Irish residents to move to the UK and take advantage of more lenient bankruptcy laws there where bankruptcy lasts for a period of twelve months (but salary instalments can required for up to three years) as opposed to twelve years in the Republic of Ireland. Though Thatcher dismisses the validity of the term 'bankruptcy tourism' and instead calls it 'bankruptcy emigration' as he says people have to emigrate to the UK in order to go bankrupt with the majority of his clients remaining in the UK once their bankruptcy is complete. Since, Ireland has reduced the duration of its insolvency procedures, and since 2016 has a 1-year bankruptcy procedure as well. However, access to such procedures may still be restricted due to barriers such as requirement to pay for legal procedures, limited size of the debt, or if one already went through a procedure before. Still, England and Wales have among the shortest and most accessible procedures in the EU, and continues attracting bankruptcy tourism in particular among over-indebted people with assets.\n\nThe most prominent cases of alleged bankruptcy tourism are perhaps those of David Drumm former chief executive of Anglo Irish Bank[52] and property developer John Fleming. Fleming, who had personally guaranteed much of the €1 billion debt of Tivway and associated companies in Ireland, was discharged from bankruptcy in the UK on 10 November 2011, the anniversary of the date on which he was declared bankrupt there.\n\nOther well known figures who have moved from the Republic of Ireland to the UK in order to go bankrupt are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "1313984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313984", "title": "Boston Scientific", "text": "Boston Scientific\n\nBoston Scientific Corporation, doing business as Boston Scientific, is a manufacturer of medical devices used in interventional medical specialties, including interventional radiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions, neuromodulation, neurovascular intervention, electrophysiology, cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, endoscopy, oncology, urology and gynecology.\n\nBoston Scientific is primarily known for the development of the Taxus Stent, a drug-eluting stent which is used to open clogged arteries. With the full acquisition of Cameron Health in June 2012, the company also became notable for offering a minimally invasive implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) which they call the EMBLEM Subcutaneous Implantable Defibrillator (S-ICD).\n\nBoston Scientific was formed June 29, 1979 in Watertown, Massachusetts as a holding company for a medical products company called Medi-Tech, and to position the company for growth in interventional medicine.\n\nThe company went public through an IPO on May 19, 1992.\n\nThe Taxus Stent was approved in 2003 in Europe and other countries and approved in the United States by the FDA in March 2004. It was the second drug-eluting stent approved in the United States.\n\nIn April 2004 the company announced that it had exercised an exclusive option to acquire Precision Vascular Systems, Inc., as part of a series of agreements between Boston Scientific and Precision Vascular in 2002 - for an undisclosed sum. In June Boston acquired Advanced Bionics Corporation for $740 million in cash, plus earn out payments. In December Boston completed its acquisition of Advanced Stent Technologies, Inc. for $120 million payable in Boston Scientific stock, plus the possibility of future contingent payments. AST had been developing stent and stent delivery systems specifically designed to address the anatomical needs of coronary artery disease in bifurcated vessels.\n\nIn April 2005, Boston exercised an exclusive option to acquire TriVascular, Inc. for an undisclosed sum. TriVascular was founded in 1998 to develop less-invasive medical devices and procedures for treating abdominal aortic aneurysms. In the same month the company also announced it had exercised its option to acquire CryoVascular Systems, Inc. and its proprietary angioplasty device to treat atherosclerotic disease of the legs and other peripheral arteries. In June Boston Scientific announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, \"Nemo I Acquisition, Inc.\", had successfully acquired Rubicon Medical Corporation, with Rubicon became a wholly owned subsidiary of Boston Scientific.\n\nIn January 2006, the company announced an offer for Guidant of $72 per share or $25 billion, this offer was however, rejected. On April 21, the company acquired longtime competitor Guidant for $27.2 billion. Guidant was split between Boston Scientific and Abbott Laboratories.\n\nIn December 2007, Boston Scientific announced it would sell its Fluid Management and Venous Access businesses for $425 million to Avista Capital Partners.\n\nIn April 2008 the company acquired CryoCor, Inc. for $1.35 per share, $17.6 million in total.Navilyst Medical was formed in February 2008 from Boston Scientific's Fluid Management and Vascular Access business units.\n\nIn January 2009, Boston announced it would acquire Labcoat Limited, whose primary development was that of a development-stage drug-eluting stent - for an undisclosed sum.\n\nIn October 2010, the company was fined $600,000 by the US Department of Justice for paying a US Army doctor to use their devices and recommend them to others. In the same month Boston Scientific acquired Asthmatx, Inc. for $193.5 million, with payments of up to $250 million being paid on the achievement of specified revenue-based criteria through 2019.\n\nIn January 2011 Boston acquired Atritech, Inc. for $100 million plus additional potential payments of up to $275 million. Atritech developed a novel device designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with atrial fibrillation who are at risk for ischemic stroke. In the same month Boston Scientific acquired Intelect Medical, Inc. for $78 million and the remaining 86 percent of Sadra Medical, Inc. not already owned for $193 million plus contingent payments. At the same time, the business divested its neurovascular business to Stryker Corporation for $1.5 billion.\n\nIn June 2012, Boston Scientific officially acquired Cameron Health for a total sum of $1.3 billion, paid out incrementally as various revenue milestones were achieved. In September the company announced it would acquire BridgePoint Medical, Inc., developer of a catheter-based system to treat coronary chronic total occlusions. In October, the company acquired Rhythmia Medical, Inc., developer of mapping and navigation methods for use in cardiac catheter ablations and other electrophysiology procedures. A month later the business acquired catheter-based renal denervation system developer, Vessix Vascular, Inc..\n\nIn November 2013 Boston announced it would acquite Bard EP, the electrophysiology business of C.R. Bard, Inc. for $275 million.\n\nIn May 2014 Boston acquired hysteroscopic intrauterine tissue removal specialist, IoGyn, Inc.. In September, the business announced it would acquire the Interventional business of Bayer.\n\nIn March 2015, the company announced it would acquire Endo International Plc's American Medical Systems urology business for at least $1.6 billion, expanding the company's health and prostate treatments. In April, Boston announced its intention to acquire Xlumena, Inc.. In October Boston announced it had invested further in percutaneous mitral valve replacement system developer, MValve Technologies, gaining a right to acquire the business in the future.\n\nIn July 2016 the business acquired the manufacturer of radiofrequency ablation systems, Cosman Medical, Inc.. In September, Boston announced it had acquired EndoChoice Holdings, Inc., becoming part of the Boston Scientific Endoscopy business for $8.00 per share or $210 million in total. In November the company acquired the gynecology and urology portfolio of Distal Access, LLC, a company that designs minimally invasive medical devices. In December 2016, the business acquired a 15% stake in Neovasc, Inc. for $75 million.\n\nIn May 2017 the company acquired Symetis SA, a developer of minimally invasive transcatheter aortic valve implantation devices. In October Boston acquired Apama Medical Inc. for up to $300 million.\n\nIn April 2018 Boston Scientific announced the triple closure of its acquisitions of women's health company, nVision Medical Corporation, NxThera and Securus Medical Group, Inc. for up to $50 million. In July, Boston announced it would acquire Cryterion Medical, Inc, Veniti, Inc., in August Augmenix, Inc. and Claret Medical, Inc. and in October In late November Boston announce they would acquire UK medical device maker, BTG plc, for $4.2 billion.\nBeginning in 2003, Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson were involved in a series of litigations involving patents covering heart stent medical devices. Both parties claimed that the other had infringed upon their patents. The litigation was settled once Boston Scientific agreed to pay $716 million to Johnson & Johnson in September 2009 and an additional $1.73 billion in February 2010.\n\nIt was announced in November 2014 that Johnson & Johnson would have another chance for payback after a multibillion-dollar trial was set for 20 November 2014. A New York federal court judge would hear the case without a jury to decide whether Boston Scientific should be held liable for the contract breach.\n\nBoston Scientific is one of several manufacturers of a medical device called transvaginal mesh, a type of surgical mesh used to treat pelvic organ prolapse. In 2015, Boston Scientific announced it would pay $119 million to 2,970 lawsuit plaintiffs, who had been injured by the mesh.\n\nOn Sunday, May 13, 2018, 60 Minutes broadcast a story suggesting that Boston Scientific used counterfeit Marlex polypropylene resin to manufacture their mesh product. Boston Scientific responded by saying the broadcast was \"irresponsible and misleading,\" citing a 2017 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) report stating that although they found variability in the polypropylene resin, \"these differences do not present new safety or effectiveness concerns.\"\n\nThe Mayo Clinic has described the advantages and risks associated with the use of transvaginal mesh.\n\nOn Nov 3,1998, Boston Scientific restated its financial results for 1997, as well as its quarterly results for the first three quarters of 1998, due to the occurrence of business irregularities in the operations of its Japanese subsidiary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45278913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45278913", "title": "Bruce Kogut", "text": "Bruce Kogut\n\nBruce Mitchel Kogut (born 1953) is an American organizational theorist, and Professor of Leadership and Ethics Director of the Columbia Business School. He is particularly known for his work with Udo Zander on knowledge-based theory of the firm.\n\nKogut obtained his BA in Political Science in 1975 at the University of California, his MA in International Affairs in 1978 at the Columbia University, New York and in 1983 his PhD at the MIT Sloan School of Management.\n\nAfter graduation in 1983 Kogut started his academic career at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania as Assistant Professor at the Department of Management, where he got promoted Associate Professor and eventually Chaired Professor. From 1993 to 1995 he was also Director of Wharton's Emerging Economies Programs, and from 1997 to 2000 Associate Dean for its Doctoral Programs. From 1994 to 2002 he also co-directed the Reginald H. Jones Center for Management Policy, Strategy, and Organization. In 2003 he moved to INSEAD, where he was appointed the Eli Lilly Chair in Innovation, Business and Society. From 2004 to 2006 he was also Scientific Director at the EIASM in Brussels, and from 2005 to 2007 founding Director of Insead Social Entrepreneurship Program. Since 2007 back in the United States he is Sanford Bernstein Chaired Professor at the Columbia Business School.\n\nKogut's research interests are in the field of \"comparative and economic sociology, strategy, comparative methods, social entrepreneurship, and governance.\"\n\nKogut teaches courses to PhD, EMBA and MBA programs.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "18020371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18020371", "title": "California's 30th State Senate district", "text": "California's 30th State Senate district\n\nCalifornia's 30th State Senate district is one of 40 California State Senate districts. It is currently represented by Democrat Holly Mitchell of Los Angeles.\n\nThe district includes 9.4% of Los Angeles County. Places in the district include Culver City, Ladera Heights, and Westmont and the Crenshaw, Downtown, and Florence neighborhoods of Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4675453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675453", "title": "Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants", "text": "Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants\n\nThe Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants (CICA) was incorporated by an Act of the Parliament of Canada in 1902, which later became known as the \"Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants Act\".\n\nThe CICA developed and supported accounting, auditing and assurance standards for organizations in Canada, developed and delivered education programs, and issued the professional designation of Chartered Accountant. The CICA was a founding member of the International Federation of Accountants and the Global Accounting Alliance.\n\nIn 2014, CICA merged with Canada's two other major accounting designations to form the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada.\n\n\nCAs are admitted to the profession through their Provincial Institutes/Ordre. These bodies are responsible for establishing and administering the qualification process, admission criteria and performance standards within their jurisdictions.\n\nPre-qualification education is delivered regionally through one of four systems across Canada:\n\nThe CICA's role – in concert with all provinces, territories – is to develop and maintain consistent, uniform standards for the profession's qualification process. These standards ensure the portability of the CA designation across Canada and internationally through various mutual recognition agreements.\n\nAdmission to the CA profession requires:\n\n\nThe CICA itself does not admit members and students; its membership is derived from membership in one of the 10 provincial and two territorial institutes of chartered accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bermuda. The institutes are empowered by local laws to regulate and govern the chartered accountancy profession within their jurisdictions. Individuals holding foreign accountancy designations who want to become a Canadian Chartered Accountant must apply to the institute in the jurisdiction where they live or intend to live.\n\nThe CICA works in partnership with and on behalf of the institutes to:\n\n\nCredentials of foreign-trained accountants are assessed according to the following categories:\n\nAssessments of foreign bodies, and negotiations of Mutual Recognition agreements are conducted by the profession's International Qualifications Appraisal Board (IQAB), the current status of which is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "32399962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32399962", "title": "Chartered Accountants Act, 1949", "text": "Chartered Accountants Act, 1949\n\nThe Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 is a statute enacted by the Constituent Assembly of India, which was acting as the provisional Parliament of India in 1949 to regulate the profession of Chartered Accountants in India. Under this act, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India was established to educate, register and regulate Chartered Accountants in India. The Act provides for ethical practices of Chartered Accountants and disciplinary proceedings against a Chartered Accountant.\n\nThe Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 is a statute enacted by the Constituent Assembly of India, which was acting as the provisional Parliament of India in 1949 to regulate the profession of Chartered Accountants in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "43394222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43394222", "title": "CohnReznick", "text": "CohnReznick\n\nCohnReznick LLP is a national professional services firm headquartered in New York, NY. It is the eleventh largest public accounting firm in the United States based on aggregated 2017 revenues.\n\nThe Firm’s services are aligned in three segments: accounting, tax, and advisory. It has 26 offices, over 2,600 employees (as of 2017), and reported annual revenue of $625 million (for fiscal year ending 1/31/18). CohnReznick was formed in 2012 through a combination of two firms: J.H. Cohn (Roseland, NJ) and Reznick Group (Bethesda, MD). J.H. Cohn was founded in 1919 in Newark, NJ by Julius H. Cohn. Reznick Group, formerly Reznick, Fedder & Silverman, was formed in 1977 in Washington, DC by three partners – David Reznick, Stuart Fedder, and Ivan Silverman.\n\nCohnReznick is a member of Nexia International, a worldwide network of independent accounting and consulting firms. The Nexia network includes more than 23,000 professionals operating in over 100 countries.\n\nRecent recognition for CohnReznick as an employer includes:\n"}
{"id": "33085387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33085387", "title": "Computhink", "text": "Computhink\n\nComputhink is the developer of the document management, enterprise content management, records management, and document workflow software Contentverse and its cloud version: Contentverse Cloud. Computhink's headquarters are in Lombard, Illinois.\n\nComputhink was established in 1994 in Chicago, IL. Computhink originally offered their document management solution under the name \"The Paperless Office\" on a 32-bit SQL database. In the year 2000, Computhink launched ViewWise and rebranded ViewWise in 2013; creating Contentverse 8 and its cloud version: Contentverse Cloud. Contentverse enables users to create an electronic filing system composed of cabinets, drawers, and folders, using index keys to manage and search a multitude of documents.\n\nContentverse fully enables users to reduce paper use and move to an electronic document management solution.\nA paperless office is a more efficient, cost-saving, compliant organizational strategy.\n\nComputhink Incorporated was founded in 1994 near Chicago, Illinois. The company originally sold a high security identification card production and management software program called IDtel. In their first year, Computhink sold one hundred IDtel systems to the United Nations for $1 million and became their sole ID tag provider. After the success with IDtel, Computhink created their first image viewing and management software program, The Paperless Office, in 1995. This was the first 32-bit software package designed for personal, single user, image viewer and image management use. Originally sold as a single user system, The Paperless Office was later developed to be used as a multiple user system.\n\nBy 1996, Computhink had operating offices in Chicago, London, Kuwait, South Africa, and Moscow with 85 total employees and consultants, and annual revenue exceeded $15 million. The single-user product was phased out, and network versions for small businesses were created and offered. As customer needs changed, Computhink moved from image management to document management. The reseller channel was developed in the United States and Internationally.\n\nBetween 1998 and 1999, The Paperless Office and IDtel were sold in 29 countries, across six continents. At this time, Computhink purchased Whetstone Technologies, the primary partner of Novell, to further expand their market presence. The Paperless Office was re-developed in Java and launched as ViewWise, the first ever server-based image-enabling product in the industry. In 2000, ViewWise became Novell’s preferred imaging partner, and Computhink decided to forego any involvement with the Whetstone Technologies products.\n\nThe network for domestic and international resellers was updated and broadened in 2006. Computhink became qualified as a Microsoft Front Runner, allowing them to release solutions alongside Microsoft’s product line. By 2008, Computhink had begun incorporating partnerships and connections with Kodak, Canon, and other third party viewers that complemented document management software. Computhink reached Tier III for the United Nations.\n\nIn 2013, the staff at Computhink realized that since 2006, the market’s needs and interests had shifted from document management to content management. Despite consistent updates and enhancements of ViewWise, the company decided to take the next step. The product was rebranded to Contentverse as the eighth version of the software. In 2014, version 8.1 of Contentverse was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "31547705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31547705", "title": "Deutsche Werkstätten Hellerau", "text": "Deutsche Werkstätten Hellerau\n\nThe Deutsche Werkstätten Hellerau is a medium-sized furniture-manufacturing business in the Hellerau district of the German city of Dresden. The company archives are deemed a valuable cultural asset and were provided with legal protection.\n\nThe workshops were founded October 1, 1898 by Karl Schmidt-Hellerau (1873-1948) under the name Dresdner Werkstätten für Handwerkskunst Schmidt und Engelbrecht, or Schmidt and Engelbrecht Dresdner workshops for craftsmanship. His partner \nIn 1898-1899 Karl Schmidt-Hellerau and Johann Vincenz Cissarz developed a closet using plywood panels. They continued developing the technique of using plywood. In 1941 they received a patent for thermally tempered wood.\n\nIn 1907, Karl Schmidt-Hellerau established an industrial technical school and training workshops. Its first head was Joseph August Lux.\n\nThe cornerstone of a new factory was laid in 1909 in what is today Dresden-Hellerau at the same time as work began on the garden city of Hellerau. Following the commissioning of the new production hall, the company moved there in 1910. At the time the firm occupied 450 employees.\n\nDespite the severe global economic crisis in 1929, the years of National Socialism and the devastation of the Second World War and the socialist planned economy in the GDR, the company has endured. In 1967 the workshops began mass production of the Möbelprogramm Deutsche Werkstätten (MDW), a modular system developed by Rudolf Horn which remained in production for 24 years. Starting in 1970 Hellerau was the main plant of the Volkseigener Betrieb Möbelkombinat Hellerau, an industrial grouping of furniture producers of East Germany.\n\nFollowing reunification in 1991, the company was transformed into a GmbH in 1992 and privatized by the Treuhand. It then employed 80 people, with a focus on fulfilling public sector procurement.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, Deutsche Werkstätten Hellerau employed over 200 people worldwide, with foreign subsidiaries and sales representatives in England and France.\n\nDuring his years in England, Karl Schmidt-Hellerau became familiar with the idea of the garden city. In reaction to the conditions of worker's housing in Dresden, he decided together with other people, among them Friedrich Naumann, to build Germany's first garden city. This was accomplished in 1909.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2469264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2469264", "title": "Director of communications", "text": "Director of communications\n\nDirector of communications is a position in both the private and public sectors. A director of communications is responsible for managing and directing an organization's internal and external communications. Directors of communications supervise public relations staff, create communication strategies, and may serve as the key spokesperson and media contact for the organization.\n\nA director of communications may also be called a public relations manager, communications director, or press secretary.\n\nThe director of communications usually reports directly to a CXO, including a chief communications officer (CCO) or chief executive officer (CEO) of a company or organization.\n\nIn an organization, the director of communications directs the Communications Department, sometimes called a Public Affairs Department. The director of communications may be assisted by a deputy director, clerical staff, and communications specialists and public affairs officers.\n\nIn United States politics, a director of communications is usually a senior aide to the President of the United States (White House Communications Director), a member of the House of Representatives, a senator, a judge, a candidate for political office, a Cabinet secretary, or a government department.\n\nIn Canada and the United Kingdom, a director of communications is a senior aide to members of Parliament, members of the House of Lords, the prime minister, Cabinet ministers, and government departments. The post of director of communications to the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is Robbie Gibb; the director of communications to the Prime Minister of Canada is Jason MacDonald.\n\nIn Australia, the director of communications is a senior adviser to the Prime Minister. They manage the Prime Minister's communications office including Press Secretaries and Speechwriting staff. The current director for the Turnbull Government is Mitch Fifield.\n\nIn Nigeria the director of communications or special adviser on communications is a senior aide to the president, vice president, and senior members of the National Assembly.\n\nIn the Council of Europe, the director of communication plays a key role in the organization, directly supporting the work of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n"}
{"id": "59051126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59051126", "title": "Eliza James", "text": "Eliza James\n\nEliza James (30 September 1855– 26 September 1927) was an English watercress grower and entrepreneur, known as the Watercress Queen of Covent Garden. Her watercress business was the largest watercress company of the time in Europe.\n\nShe was born Eliza Currall, in Birmingham on 30 September 1855. She began selling watercress to help support her family following the suicide of her father. Aged sixteen, she was under detention as a female juvenile offender at the Warwickshire Reformatory for Girls in Coventry, which taught offenders a trade. Around 1877, she moved to London.\n\nOn 28 May 1877 she married William Arthur Griffiths, a mariner, in Liverpool and they had four daughters and three sons. They lived in Coventry, Birmingham and Liverpool before settling in Sheffield as fruit and vegetable sellers. By 1986, she owned a fruit and commission agency business at Castlefolds Market in Sheffield. \n\nHer husband was an alcoholic, and on three occasions stabbed her. He threatened to murder her when she attempted to take divorce proceedings against him, and he was imprisoned in 1897. She was granted a divorce by decree nisi in April of that year, while William was in Wakefield gaol. In her divorce petition, she argued that from the start of her marriage she had maintained her children with her own resources. It was rescinded on the basis of adultery, as she had lived with another man, James Fleet, a meat salesman at Sheffield market, in Glasgow after the divorce nisi, which she mistakenly believed had legally ended her marriage. She married Fleet in 1902, describing herself as a widow, and the couple lived in London and were sellers at Covent Garden market.\n\nIn 1912 she visited the United States of America with her daughter, travelling out on the ocean liner the Carmania and returning on the Lusitania.\n\nBecause of her success as an entrepreneur and grower, she was known as the Watercress Queen. She was a successful businesswoman in a male-dominated environment, and in 1908 was trading in her own right as a saleswoman of watercress and salad. She diversified her trade, and began supplying, in addition to markets, restaurants, hotels and shops, and gained an almost monopoly of London's watercress market.\n\nShe founded her company James & Son and from 1908 invested in watercress beds in Hampshire and Surrey, in Hurstbourne Priors and St Mary Bourne on the Bourne rivulet. She leased six acres of watercress beds from the Earl of Portsmouth in 1908, and again in 1917, this time a further nine acres. Her business suffered from the extensive drought of 1921, for which she had to sink artesian wells for irrigation.\n\nHer firm was the largest watercress company in Europe, and she became among the largest owners of watercress sites in the world. Despite her success as a businesswoman, James continued to work on her stall at Covent Garden Market, opening each morning having arrived on her son-in-law's watercress cart.\n\nShe died on 26 September 1927 from a brain haemorrhage, arteriosclerosis, and chronic Bright’s disease. She was buried at West Norwood Cemetery in London, where her coffin was laid with a large wreath of watercress.\n\nBy the end of her life, James was supplying London's restaurant trade, selling selling 50 tonnes of watercress a week. The fields of watercress beds she created in Hampshire are still used for watercress production, and are now owned by Vitacress Salads. \n"}
{"id": "8702920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8702920", "title": "Erskine Henry Bronson", "text": "Erskine Henry Bronson\n\nErskine Henry Bronson (September 12, 1844 – October 19, 1920) was an American-born Canadian businessman and political figure. He represented the riding of Ottawa in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1886 to 1898.\n\nHe was born in Bolton, New York in 1844, the son of Henry Franklin Bronson, and came to Bytown with his family in 1853. Bronson was educated in Ottawa at the District Grammar School and New York City. He became a partner in the Bronsons and Weston Lumber Company in 1867 and took control of the company when his father died in 1889.\n\nBronson served on Ottawa City Council from 1872 to 1877 and was a provincial minister in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1886 to 1898. He was also a public school board trustee for 18 years.\n\nBronson was president of the Ottawa Power Company, Limited. This resulted from his efforts to diversify the family business. The power house and power plant at Chaudière Falls which were erected in 1900 following the 1900 Hull–Ottawa fire were owned by this company. Bronson also was responsible for the 1891 construction of Generating Station No. 2 at the falls. He, with Gordon B. Pattee (a lumber baron), formed Standard Electric Light Company. (This company was almost certainly actually called Standard Electric Company of Ottawa (Limited), formed in 1891 with Bronson as president, and Pattee as vice-president, which merged with others into the Ottawa Electric Company in 1894). Bronson was later director of the Ottawa Electric Company later absorbed by Ottawa Hydro.\nHe served as Vice President of Ottawa Electric Company, Vice President of Ottawa Light, Heat and Power Company, Limited and President of Upper Ottawa Improvement Company, Limited. He was also president of \"Bronson Company\" and president of the Ottawa Carbide Company.\n\nBronson was also noted as a philanthropist, supporting churches, missions and charities.\n\nBronson retired from business in 1910. He died at Ottawa in 1920. He is buried in Beechwood Cemetery. A street in Ottawa, Bronson Avenue is named after him.\n\nErskine H. Bronson married Ella W. Webster at Norfolk, Va., in 1874. Ella was the daughter of Prof. N. B. Webster, a cousin of the American statesman, Daniel Webster. She was a member of the Ottawa Council of Women since its first organization, and assisted in the establishment of the Associated Charities. She served as President of the Maternity Hospital, Ottawa, when it opened in 1895.\n\nBronson had one son and one daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "54585989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54585989", "title": "Exeed School of Business and Finance", "text": "Exeed School of Business and Finance\n\nExeed School of Business and Finance is a business school and Higher Education institution based out of Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. The school is one of the few higher center of learning in the Middle East region to offer chartered and professional qualifications programs with core focus on Managers, Senior Managers and Executives.\n\nThe school offers Academic Master Programs, Executive Education, International Professional Certifications, Corporate Training, Public Workshops and an Action Lab through Blue Ocean Strategy. The school runs flagship masters in banking and finance through one of the most reputed chartered body in United Kingdom. The school also runs several Executive Education programs in both the Open and Custom formats to meet the training requirements of senior executives and corporate. Exeed School of Business and Finance offers lot of specialized courses with focus on industry domains such as Supply Chain Management & Logistics, Islamic Finance & Banking, Project Management, Finance and Risk management, Banking and Finance, Shipping and Freight Forwarding, Procurement and Contracts Management, Tourism and Hospitality Management and Health Care Management as well as generic management programs such as Strategic Management and Leadership, Strategic Human Resource Management and Business Strategy.\n\n\nIn the year 2017, Exeed School of Business and Finance entered into strategic alliance with London Institute of Banking and Finance, UK's oldest chartered body, for offering specialized programs for banking and financial professionals in the Arab world. Through LIBF, Exeed is reaching out to banking organizations and financial institutions to design customized program for their staff. Exeed also launched professional short term programs in banking and finance as open enrollment. Through LIBF, Exeed is also launching specialized academic degree in banking and finance.\n\nExeed School of Business and Finance in partnership with Chartered Management Institute, UK and Cambridge International Qualifications, UK designed professional short term programs which helps the professionals in attaining Level 7 Post Graduate Diploma and a charter status. The short term programs are in the domain of Project Management, Health Care Management, Supply Chain Management, Human Resource Management, Engineering Management and Business Analysis.\n\nCurrently ESBF is an institute of choice for many professional certifications preparation including SHRM - CP, SHRM - SCP, PHR, SPHR, GPHR, PMP, Prince 2, Scrum Master, ITIL, ITSM, CSCP, CLTD, CPIM, CISI, CIMA, CII, CISSP and ISO certifications.\n\nExeed School of Business and Finance offers wide range of bespoke and customized program for the organizations and executives who are looking for improving performance. ESBF facilitates corporate training through its customized develop 3D Model. The program team of ESBF incorporates Business Driven Action Learning approach in the training. ESBF also consult organizations on human resource management, assessment, policy and feasibility study.\n\nSome of the well known brands including ADNOC, Emirates NBD, Qatar Petroleum, Commercial Bank of Dubai, Al Shirawi, Fujitsu, FedEx, DP World, International Medical Center, NMC Health Care and KACST engaged Exeed School of Business and Finance to train the professionals and consult them on talent development.\n\nESBF team specializes in leadership development, project management, business analysis, big data analytics, advance excel, supply chain management, logistics management, contracts management, finance for non finance managers, advance financial management, ISO awareness, hospitality management, diversity, supervisory, soft skills, product management, strategy and general management.\n\nExeed School of Business and Finance represent Blue Ocean Strategy in Middle East region through UCSI Blue Ocean Strategy Consulting and offer a three-day Action Lab for Business owners, Entrepreneurs and Senior Managers on Blue Ocean Strategy tools and Blue Ocean Leadership. The previous Lab was attended by professionals of BDL Group, NMC Health Care, Trans World and Al Masraf Bank.\n\nExeed School of Business and Finance facilitates simulation learning workshops on various topics, some of the topics are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35003775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35003775", "title": "FINEXA", "text": "FINEXA\n\nFINEXA - Stowarzyszenie Dyrektorów Finansowych is Poland's only national organisation for finance directors. The association is active in regulatory processes, education and career-building. Headquartered in Warsaw, the association has a chapter in Gdańsk.\n\nFINEXA was founded on 2 August 2011 by 36 foundation members. It was registered in Warsaw on 17 November 2011. The official organ of the association is the business magazine \"Strategie\".\n\nThe organisation is run by an eight-man board and a five-man supervisory board. The current chairman of the board is Paweł Domosławski, and the supervisory board is headed by Nikolaus von Nathusius. Since 2012, FINEXA has been a member institute of the International Association of Financial Executives Institutes (IAFEI). The Polish Association of Risk Managers (POLRISK) is a member of FINEXA. The Polish Corporate Treasurers Association (PCTA) and FINEXA co-operate in regulatory process-matters. \n\nSince 2012 FINEXA has been the organizer of the award Galeria Chwały Polskiej Ekonomii; the ceremony is held at the annual conference of the organization in Warsaw. In 2013 FINEXA was host of the 43rd IAFEI World Congress in Warsaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "652442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652442", "title": "FOB (shipping)", "text": "FOB (shipping)\n\nFOB, \"Free On Board\", is a term in international commercial law specifying at what point respective obligations, costs, and risk involved in the delivery of goods shift from the seller to the buyer under the Incoterms standard published by the International Chamber of Commerce. FOB is only used in non-containerized sea freight or inland waterway transport. As with all Incoterms, FOB does not define the point at which ownership of the goods is transferred.\n\nThe term FOB is also used in modern domestic shipping within the United States to describe the point at which a seller is no longer responsible for shipping cost.\n\nOwnership of a cargo is independent from Incoterms. In international trade, ownership of the cargo is defined by the bill of lading or waybill.\n\nUnder the Incoterms 2010 standard published by the International Chamber of Commerce, FOB is only used in sea freight and stands for \"Free On Board\". The term is always used in conjunction with a port of loading.\n\nIndicating \"FOB \"port\" means that the seller pays for transportation of the goods to the port of shipment, plus loading costs. The buyer pays the cost of marine freight transport, insurance, unloading, and transportation from the arrival port to the final destination. The passing of risks occurs when the goods are loaded on board at the port of shipment. For example, \"FOB Vancouver\" indicates that the seller will pay for transportation of the goods to the port of Vancouver, and the cost of loading the goods on to the cargo ship (this includes inland haulage, customs clearance, origin documentation charges, demurrage if any, origin port handling charges, in this case Vancouver). The buyer pays for all costs beyond that point, including unloading. Responsibility for the goods is with the seller until the goods are loaded on board the ship. Once the cargo is on board, the buyer assumes the risk.\nThe use of \"FOB\" originated in the days of sailing ships. When the ICC first wrote their guidelines for the use of the term in 1936, the ship's rail was still relevant, as goods were often passed over the rail by hand. In 1954, in the case of \"Pyrene Co. Ltd. v. Scindia Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.\", Justice Devlin, ruling on a matter relating to liability under an FOB contract, described the situation thus:\n\nIn the modern era of containerization, the term \"ship's rail\" is somewhat archaic for trade purposes, as with a sealed shipping container there is no way of establishing when damage occurred after the container has been sealed. The standards have noted this. Incoterms 1990 stated,\nIncoterms 2000 adopted the wording,\nThe phrase \"passing the ship's rail\" is no longer in use, having been dropped from the FOB Incoterm in the 2010 revision.\n\nDue to potential confusion with domestic North American usage of \"FOB\", it is recommended that the use of Incoterms be explicitly specified, along with the edition of the standard. For example, \"FOB New York (Incoterms 2000)\". Incoterms apply to both international trade and domestic trade, as of the 2010 revision.\n\nIn North America, FOB is written into a sales agreement to determine where the liability responsibility for the goods transfers from the seller to the buyer. FOB stands for \"Free On Board\" or so there is no line item payment by the buyer for the cost of getting the goods onto the transport. There are two possibilities: \"FOB origin\", or \"FOB destination\". \"FOB origin\" means the transfer occurs as soon as the goods are safely on board the transport. \"FOB destination\" means the transfer occurs the moment the goods are removed from the transport at the destination. \"FOB origin\" (also sometimes phrased as \"FOB shipping\" or \"FOB shipping point\") indicates that the sale is considered complete at the seller's shipping dock, and thus the buyer of the goods is responsible for freight costs and liability during transport. With \"FOB destination\", the sale is complete at the buyer's doorstep and the seller is responsible for freight costs and liability during transport.\n\nThe two terms have a specific meaning in commercial law and cannot be altered. But the FOB terms do not need to be used, and often are not. In this case the specific terms of the agreement can vary widely, in particular which party, buyer or seller, pays for the loading costs and shipment costs, and/or where responsibility for the goods is transferred. The last distinction is important for determining liability or risk of loss for goods lost or damaged in transit from the seller to the buyer.\n\nFor example, a person in Miami purchasing equipment from a manufacturer in Chicago could receive a price quote of \"$5000 FOB Chicago\", which would indicate that the buyer would be responsible for the shipping from Chicago to Miami. If the same seller issued a price quote of \"$5000 FOB Miami\", then the seller would cover shipping to the buyer's location.\n\nInternational shipments typically use \"FOB\" as defined by the Incoterms standards, where it always stands for \"Free On Board\". Domestic shipments within the United States or Canada often use a different meaning, specific to North America, which is inconsistent with the Incoterms standards.\n\nNorth American FOB usage corresponds to Incoterms approximately as follows:\nA related but separate term \"CAP\" (\"customer-arranged pickup\") is used to denote that the buyer will arrange a carrier of their choice to pick the goods up at the seller's premises, and the liability for any damage or loss belongs to the buyer.\n\nAlthough FOB has long been stated as \"'Freight On Board'\" in sales contract terminology, this should be avoided as it does not precisely conform to the meaning of the acronym as specified in the UCC.\n\nSometimes FOB is used in sales to retain commission by the outside sales representative. It is unclear where this originated.\n\nIn the past, the FOB point determined when title transferred for goods. For example, at year- and period-end goods in transit under \"FOB destination\" (North American usage) appear on the seller's balance sheet but not in the buyer's balance sheet, as the risk and rewards of ownership change to the buyer at the \"destination\" port.\n\nIt is much easier to determine when title transfers by referring to the agreed upon terms and conditions of the transaction; typically, title passes with risk of loss. The transfer of title may occur at a different time (or event) than the FOB shipping term. The transfer of title is the element of revenue that determines who owns the goods and the applicable value.\n\nImport fees when they reach the border of one country to enter the other country under the conditions of FOB destination are due at the customs port of the destination country.\n\nWith the advent of e-commerce, most commercial electronic transactions occur under the terms of \"FOB shipping point\" or \"FCA shipping point\".\n\nSome sources claim that FOB stands for \"Freight On Board\". This is not the case. The term \"Freight On Board\" is not mentioned in any version of Incoterms, and is not defined by the Uniform Commercial Code in the USA. Further to that, it has been found in the US court system that \"Freight On Board\" is not a recognized industry term. Use of the term \"Freight On Board\" in contracts is therefore very likely to cause confusion.\n"}
{"id": "43977883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43977883", "title": "Faiyaz Koya", "text": "Faiyaz Koya\n\nFaiyaz Siddiq Koya is a Fijian politician and former Member of the Parliament of Fiji. He served as Minister for Industry, Trade, Tourism, Lands & Mineral Resources from 2014 to 2018.\n\nKoya is the son of former National Federation Party leader Sidiq Koya. He is a lawyer and a former board member of Tourism Fiji, the Fiji Legal Aid Commission and the Fiji Hotel Licensing Board.\n\nIn the 2014 election Koya received 895 votes, the 81st highest total amongst all candidates and the 31st highest number of votes among FijiFirst candidates. As his party performed well enough to be eligible for 32 seats, his 895 votes was sufficient to be elected into parliament He served a twelve-day stint as Attorney-General of Fiji (24 September — 6 October 2014). In the 2018 elections Koya did not receive enough votes to enter parliament.\n"}
{"id": "8595195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8595195", "title": "Fernão Gomes", "text": "Fernão Gomes\n\nFernão Gomes (15th century) was a Portuguese merchant and explorer from Lisbon, the son of Tristão Gomes de Brito (?).\n\nIn 1469, King Afonso V of Portugal granted him the monopoly of trade in the Gulf of Guinea. Besides the payment of an annual rent of 200,000 \"reais\", Gomes was to explore 100 leagues of the coast of Africa per year, for five years (later the agreement would be extended for another year). He also received a monopoly of trade in guinea pepper for another yearly payment of 100,000 \"reais\".\n\nGomes employed explorers João de Santarém, Pedro Escobar, Lopo Gonçalves, Fernão do Pó and Pedro de Sintra, He exceeded the requirements of his grant: his expeditions reached the Cape of Santa Catarina, already in the Southern Hemisphere, and also the islands of the Gulf of Guinea.\n\nIn 1471 they reached Elmina (meaning \"the Mine\"), where they found a thriving alluvial gold trade. With the substantial revenues he got, especially the trade of his warehouse in Mina, he became known as \"Fernão Gomes da Mina\" in 1474. \nWith his profits from African trade, Fernão Gomes assisted the Portuguese king in the conquests of Asilah, Alcácer Ceguer, and Tangier in Morocco, where he was knighted. Later, in 1478, gathering honors and with an enormous influence on the economy of the kingdom, he was appointed to the royal council.\n\nGiven the large profits, in 1482 new King John II of Portugal ordered a factory to be built in Elmina, to manage the local gold industry: Elmina Castle.\n\nGomes married Catarina Leme, an illegitimate child of the Flemish-Portuguese merchant Martim Leme. Martin Leme was the son of Martin Lems and his noble Portuguese wife Joana Barroso. They had two children. Catarina Leme married João Rodrigues Pais. Nuno Fernandes da Mina married Isabel Queimado and Violante de Brito.\n\n"}
{"id": "9517361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9517361", "title": "Fluidized bed reactor", "text": "Fluidized bed reactor\n\nA fluidized bed reactor (FBR) is a type of reactor device that can be used to carry out a variety of multiphase chemical reactions. In this type of reactor, a fluid (gas or liquid) is passed through a solid granular material (usually a catalyst possibly shaped as tiny spheres) at high enough velocities to suspend the solid and cause it to behave as though it were a fluid. This process, known as fluidization, imparts many important advantages to the FBR. As a result, the fluidized bed reactor is now used in many industrial applications.\n\nThe solid substrate (the catalytic material upon which chemical species react) material in the fluidized bed reactor is typically supported by a porous plate, known as a distributor. The fluid is then forced through the distributor up through the solid material. At lower fluid velocities, the solids remain in place as the fluid passes through the voids in the material. This is known as a packed bed reactor. As the fluid velocity is increased, the reactor will reach a stage where the force of the fluid on the solids is enough to balance the weight of the solid material. This stage is known as incipient fluidization and occurs at this minimum fluidization velocity. Once this minimum velocity is surpassed, the contents of the reactor bed begin to expand and swirl around much like an agitated tank or boiling pot of water. The reactor is now a fluidized bed. Depending on the operating conditions and properties of solid phase various flow regimes can be observed in this reactor.\n\nFluidized bed reactors are a relatively new tool in the chemical engineering field. The first fluidized bed gas generator was developed by Fritz Winkler in Germany in the 1920s. One of the first United States fluidized bed reactors used in the petroleum industry was the Catalytic Cracking Unit, created in Baton Rouge, LA in 1942 by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (now ExxonMobil). This FBR and the many to follow were developed for the oil and petrochemical industries. Here catalysts were used to reduce petroleum to simpler compounds through a process known as cracking. The invention of this technology made it possible to significantly increase the production of various fuels in the United States.\n\nToday fluidized bed reactors are still used to produce gasoline and other fuels, along with many other chemicals. Many industrially produced polymers are made using FBR technology, such as rubber, vinyl chloride, polyethylene, styrenes, and polypropylene. Various utilities also use FBR's for coal gasification, nuclear power plants, and water and waste treatment settings. Used in these applications, fluidized bed reactors allow for a cleaner, more efficient process than previous standard reactor technologies.\n\nThe increase in fluidized bed reactor use in today's industrial world is largely due to the inherent advantages of the technology.\n\nAs in any design, the fluidized bed reactor does have it draw-backs, which any reactor designer must take into consideration.\n\nDue to the advantages of fluidized bed reactors, a large amount of research is devoted to this technology. Most current research aims to quantify and explain the behavior of the phase interactions in the bed. Specific research topics include particle size distributions, various transfer coefficients, phase interactions, velocity and pressure effects, and computer modeling. The aim of this research is to produce more accurate models of the inner movements and phenomena of the bed. This will enable chemical engineers to design better, more efficient reactors that may effectively deal with the current disadvantages of the technology and expand the range of FBR use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43638795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43638795", "title": "Gas blending", "text": "Gas blending\n\nGas blending is the process of mixing gases for a specific purpose where the composition of the resulting mixture is specified and controlled.\nA wide range of applications include scientific and industrial processes, food production and storage and breathing gases.\n\nGas mixtures are usually specified in terms of molar gas fraction (which is closely approximated by volumetric gas fraction for many permanent gases): by percentage, parts per thousand or parts per million. Volumetric gas fraction converts trivially to partial pressure ratio, following Dalton's law of partial pressures. Partial pressure blending at constant temperature is computationally simple, and pressure measurement is relatively inexpensive, but maintaining constant temperature during pressure changes requires significant delays for temperature equalization. Blending by mass fraction is unaffected by temperature variation during the process, but requires accurate measurement of mass or weight, and calculation of constituent masses from the specified molar ratio. Both partial pressure and mass fraction blending are used in practice.\n\nShielding gases are inert or semi-inert gases used in gas metal arc welding and gas tungsten arc welding to protect the weld area from oxygen and water vapour, which can reduce the quality of the weld or make the welding more difficult.\n\nGas metal arc welding (GMAW), or metal inert gas (MIG) welding, is a process that uses a continuous wire feed as a consumable electrode and an inert or semi-inert gas mixture to protect the weld from contamination. \nGas tungsten arc welding (GTAW), or tungsten inert gas (TIG) welding, is a manual welding process that uses a nonconsumable tungsten electrode, an inert or semi-inert gas mixture, and a separate filler material.\n\nModified atmosphere packaging is a technology used to preserve the quality of fresh produce so that it can be sold to markets far away from where it is grown, extend the marketing period, and help reduce food waste within the cold chain. The gas composition used to pack food products depends on the product. A high oxygen content helps to retain the red colour of meat, while low oxygen reduces mould growth in bread and vegetables.\n\n\nA breathing gas is a mixture of gaseous chemical elements and compounds used for respiration. The essential component for any breathing gas is a partial pressure of oxygen of between roughly 0.16 and 1.60 bar at the ambient pressure. The oxygen is usually the only metabolically active component unless the gas is an anaesthetic mixture. Some of the oxygen in the breathing gas is consumed by the metabolic processes, and the inert components are unchanged, and serve mainly to dilute the oxygen to an appropriate concentration, and are therefore also known as diluent gases.\n\nGas blending for scuba diving is the filling of diving cylinders with non-air breathing gases such as nitrox, trimix and heliox. Use of these gases is generally intended to improve overall safety of the planned dive, by reducing the risk of decompression sickness and/or nitrogen narcosis, and may improve ease of breathing.\n\nGas blending for surface supplied and saturation diving may include the filling of bulk storage cylinders and bailout cylinders with breathing gases, but it also involves the mixing of breathing gases at lower pressure which are supplied directly to the diver or to the hyperbaric life-support system. Part of the operation of the life-support system is the replenishment of oxygen used by the occupants, and removal of the carbon dioxide waste product by the gas conditioning unit. This entails monitoring of the composition of the chamber gas and periodic addition of oxygen to the chamber gas at the internal pressure of the chamber.\n\nThe gas mixing unit is part of the life support equipment of a saturation system, along with other components which may include bulk gas storage, compressors, helium recovey unit, bell and diver hot water supply, gas conditioning unit and emergency power supply\n\nThe anesthetic machine is used to blend breathing gas for patients under anesthesia during surgery. The gas mixing and delivery system lets the anesthetist control oxygen fraction, nitrous oxide concentration and the concentration of volatile anesthetic agents.\nThe machine is usually supplied with oxygen (O) and nitrous oxide (NO) from low pressure lines and high pressure reserve cylinders, and the metered gas is mixed at ambient pressure, after which additional anesthetic agents may be added by a vaporizer, and the gas may be humidified. Air is used as a diluent to decrease oxygen concentration. In special cases other gases may also be added to the mixture. These may include carbon dioxide (CO), used to stimulate respiration, and helium (He) to reduce resistance to flow or to enhance heat transfer.\n\nGas mixing systems may be mechanical, using conventional rotameter banks, or electronic, using proportional solenoids or pulsed injectors, and control may be manual or automatic.\n\nProviding reactive gaseous materials for chemical production processes in the required ratio\n\nProtective gas mixtures may be used to exclude air or other gases from the surface of sensitive materials during processing.\nExamples include melting of reactive metals such as magnesium, and heat treatment of steels.\n\nCalibration gases: \n\nCalibration gas mixtures are generally produced in batches by gravimetric or volumetric methods.\n\nThe gravimetric method uses sensitive and accurately calibrated scales to weigh the amounts of gases added into the cylinder. Precise measurement is required as inaccuracy or impurities can result in incorrect calibration. The container for calibration gas must be as close to perfectly clean as practicable. The cylinders may be cleaned by purging with high purity nitrogen, the vacuumed. For particularly critical mixtures the cylinder may be heated while being vacuumed to facilitate removal of any impurities adhering to the walls.\n\nAfter filling, the gas mixture must be thoroughly mixed to ensure that all components are evenly distributed throughout the container to prevent possible variations on composition within the container. This is commonly done by rolling the container horizontally for 2 to 4 hours.\n\nSeveral methods are available for gas blending. These may be distinguished as batch methods and continuous processes.\n\nBatch gas blending requires the appropriate amounts of the constituent gases to be measured and mixed together until the mixture is homogenous. The amounts are based on the mole (or molar) fractions, but measured either by volume or by mass. Volume measurement may be done indirectly by partial pressure, as the gases are often sequentially decanted into the same container for mixing, and therefore occupy the same volume. Weight measurement is generally used as a proxy for mass measurement as acceleration can usually be considered constant.\n\nThe mole fraction is also called the amount fraction, and is the number of molecules of a constituent divided by the total number of all molecules in the mixture. For example, a 50% oxygen, 50% helium mixture will contain approximately the same number of molecules of oxygen and helium. As both oxygen and helium approximate ideal gases at pressures below 200  bar, each will occupy the same volume at the same pressure and temperature, so they can be measured by volume at the same pressure, then mixed, or by partial pressure when decanted into the same container. \n\nThe mass fraction can be calculated from the molar fraction by multiplying the molar fraction by the molecular mass for each constituent, to find a constituent mass, and comparing it to the summed masses of all the constituents. The actual mass of each constituent needed for a mixture is calculated by multiplying the mass fraction by the desired mass of the mixture.\n\nAlso known as volumetric blending. This must be done at constant temperature for best accuracy, though it is possible to compensate for temperature changes in proportion to the accuracy of the temperature measured before and after each gas is added to the mixture.\n\nPartial pressure blending is commonly used for breathing gases for diving. The accuracy required for this application can be achieved by using a pressure gauge which reads accurately to 0.5 bar, and allowing the temperature to equilibrate after each gas is added.\n\nAlso known as gravimetric blending. This is relatively unaffected by temperature, and accuracy depends on the accuracy of mass measurement of the constituents.\n\nMass fraction blending is used where great accuracy of the mixture is critical, such as in calibration gases. The method is not suited to moving platforms where the accelerations can cause inaccurate measurement, and therefore is unsuitable for mixing diving gases on vessels.\n\nContinuous gas blending is used for some surface supplied diving applications, and for many chemical processes using reactive gas mixtures, particularly where there may be a need to alter the mixture during the operation or process.\n\nThese processes start with a mixture of gases, usually air, and reduce the concentration of one or more of the constituents. These processes can be used for the production of Nitrox for scuba diving and deoxygenated air for blanketing purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53162759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53162759", "title": "He Yamin", "text": "He Yamin\n\nHe Yamin is a Chinese billionaire who is the founder and chairman of Chengdu Leejun, a construction and mining equipment manufacturer based in Chengdu. He holds roughly 1/3 of the company's shares.\n"}
{"id": "52740433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52740433", "title": "Igor Markin", "text": "Igor Markin\n\nIgor Nikolaevich Markin (; b. 1967) is a Russian entrepreneur. In 2007, he founded a private art museum in Moscow.\n"}
{"id": "53606360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53606360", "title": "Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka", "text": "Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka\n\nThe Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka, (CMA Sri Lanka) is a professional body offering qualification in management accountancy in Sri Lanka.\n\nIt mainly focuses of development and promoting the study of Management Accountancy, establishing management accountancy standards and promote the profession of management accountancy in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe institute was initially established as \"Society of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka\", on 3 June 2000 in Colombo Sri Lanka with the help technical assistance and the guidelines of Certified of Management Accountants of Canada (CMA Canada), now CPA Canada and the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) of USA and International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) which is the global organization for the accountancy profession.\n\nInitially the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) was funded the formulating of the new educational syllabus, preparation of study material and other related inauguration works. The CMA Sri Lanka received the help of CMA Canada in the preparation of its first educational syllabus, study material and examination works in order to comply with the international standards.\n\nCMA Sri Lanka now a full Member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) since 2014. The IFAC is a global organization for the accountancy profession.\n\nThe institute, received the membership of other regional accountancy bodies such as the confederation of Asian and Pacific Accountants (CAPA). Member of the South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA). and Toastmasters International.\n\nThe institution has 4 levels of examination and an integrative case study. The examination levels are respectively Foundation Level, Operational Level, Managerial Level, Strategic Level.\n\nThe examination syllabus change in every 5 years to meet the industry standards. The first two levels available in English, Sinhala and Tamil languages (medium) and the final two levels only available in English medium. All the levels can completed in 2.5 year period of time. Examination held every year May and November.\n\nThe current examination syllabus consists 17 core course units, 4 skill course units and a final integrative Case Study. After completing all the 17 core courses and 4 skills course candidates can sit for the final case study. The minimum pass mark per subject is 50.\n\nThe current examination covers the Management Accounting, Financial Accounting, Financial Management, Strategic Management Accounting, Personal and Corporate Taxation, Business law and Corporate law, Auditing, Information Technology, Marketing & Human Resource Management, Strategic Management, Business English, etc.\n\nThe Institute of Certified Management of Sri Lanka enjoys MOU agreements with the \n\nAnd several other leading international accountancy bodies and universities.\n\nThrough partnerships with the international professional institutions, CMA Sri Lanka passed finalist and members who followed without getting an exemptions for the CMA examination subjects can obtain other related professional qualifications.\n\n\nThe CMA Sri Lanka passed finalist can obtain the following qualifications benefits.,\n\n\nThe qualified members have been approved to register as Company Secretaries under the Companies act no 7 of 2017 of Sri Lanka. ( gazette extraordinary no. 1998/11 dated 20-12-2016 prepared under the article 527 of Companies Act no. 07 of 2007,) \nMoreover, the CMA Sri Lanka's qualifications now use in recruitment to the Sri Lankan government services including the Sri Lanka Accounting Service, Sri Lanka Audit Service, Government corporations, state-owned businesses, semi-state own companies and state banks.\n\nThe students who have completed up to the Managerial Level (Level 03) with 10 years proven accounting experience can apply for Tax Authorized Representative qualifications under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 of Sri Lanka. Act special gazette pdf file.\n\nCMA Sri Lanka has two grades of full membership and a part qualification designations. For full membership:\n\nTo become an ACMA every passed finalist student should cover the 3 years compulsory practical training requirement, case study examination and a viva voice examination. The every trainee should maintain a training document and certify it by the CMA Sri Lanka approved witness (A qualified Accountant). After gaining the ACMA qualifications and completing the 5 years working professional experience including 3 years of senior managerial level with the 120 hours of the continuing professional development (CPD) requirement can obtain the FCMA designation.\n\nFor Part Qualification membership:\n\nThe institute offers AMA part qualifications for the students who have completed up to the Managerial Level (3rd level) examinations and cover the two years practical training requirement. \n\n"}
{"id": "22413927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22413927", "title": "Jean-Pierre Koepp", "text": "Jean-Pierre Koepp\n\nJean-Pierre Koepp (26 April 1934 in Holzthum - 3 August 2010 in Ettelbruck) was a politician and restaurateur in Luxembourg. He was a representative of the Alternative Democratic Reform Party (ADR), having been one of the ADR's founder-members and one of their first members of the Chamber of Deputies, in which he has sat between 1989 and 2009.\n\nKoepp was elected to the Chamber to represent the Nord constituency at the 1989 legislative election, with the ADR, then a single-issue pensioners' party called the 'Action Committee 5/6ths Pensions for Everyone', scoring a remarkable electoral upset in securing four seats in the Chamber. He was re-elected in 1994, when the ADR increased their representation in the Chamber to five seats.\n\nIn the 1999 legislative elections, he placed first on the ADR list, with two being elected, and came third amongst all candidates (behind only ministers-to-be Charles Goerens and Marie-Josée Jacobs). In 2004, Koepp came first amongst ADR candidates again, albeit with a greatly reduced vote count. Nonetheless, the ADR still won enough votes for one deputy to be returned, allowing Koepp to be re-elected. He did not run in the most recent election, leaving the top place on the list to Jean Colombera.\n\nHe died in 2010, at the age of 76.\n\n"}
{"id": "28912032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28912032", "title": "Joyce Beber", "text": "Joyce Beber\n\nJoyce Beber, born Joyce Sacks, (November 20, 1929 - September 17, 2010) was an advertising executive who co-founded the Beber Silverstein Group and created numerous memorable campaigns for the Helmsley group of hotels. The campaigns successfully promoted Leona Helmsley and her hotel chain; Beber was hired and fired four times by Helmsley.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, Sacks attended yeshiva prior to moving to Manhattan. She earned her bachelor's degree from Purdue University, and received a master's degree in journalism from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. While working in social services at New York City's Mount Sinai Hospital, Sacks met her husband to be, Charles Beber, an intern then who became a gerontologist. They married in 1956, and moved to Miami two years later.\n\nIn 1962, she met Elaine Silverstein, with whom she would co-found Beber Silverstein & Partners ten years later, at a time when women headed few agencies, investing $7,000 into the business. With two children in elementary school and no prior plans to start a career, Beber decided to go into the advertising business after hearing a speech in 1971 by Gloria Steinem about women's rights. She got some training from a cousin who owned an advertising agency and started the firm in 1972, where their first client was the American Jewish Committee.\n\nThe firm won many accounts, including Florida Power & Light, the National Education Association, Humana, Steinway & Sons, Paramount Pictures, the National Organization for Women and Knight-Ridder. The firm also did iconic (and controversial) campaigns for the State of Florida, with the slogan \"Florida. The rules are different here.\" being interpreted as encouraging lawbreaking. She also developed tourism campaigns for Miami that said \"Miami. See It Like a Native\", a poster of a woman from behind wearing only snorkeling gear and a bathing suit bottom, and acampaign that used the slogan \"Miami's For Me\". The firm's annual billings reached $100 million.\n\nThe agency did work for the Helmsley Hotel group, and was hired — and fired — by hotelier Leona Helmsley on four separate occasions. Beber had to file suit on three occasions to get paid. In one of the firm's first meetings with Helmsley, Beber's conversation was interrupted by a call Mrs. Helmsley took from a hotel guest who had been dissatisfied with a noisy air conditioning unit, and they spoke about Helmsley's frustration with the inadequate quality of the towels the hotel provided. Beber used the conversation as the impetus to develop a campaign for Helmsley that featured her as \"Queen of the Palace\", carefully watching over every detail at the Harley Hotel in Manhattan. Occupancy shot up from 25% to 87% after just four months, and the campaign was recognized by \"Adweek\" magazine as opening \"a new chapter in U.S. hotel advertising\". and billing the Helmsley Palace Hotel as \"The only Palace in the world where the Queen stands guard\". A 1985 article in the \"Chicago Tribune\" credited the ad campaign with having \"made Leona Helmsley more famous than the Helmsley hotel chain for which she speaks\". Helmsley fired Beber four different times: once, in order to handle advertising internally; again after Beber added Donald Trump as a client; next, when she blamed Beber's ad campaign for raising her profile leading to her tax evasion conviction; finally, when Helmsley found out that a man to whom Beber had introduced her (and in whom Helmsley had been romantically interested) turned out to be gay. After one of the firings, Helmsley told an interviewer that \"You could say I gave her the royal flush\". When the firm was rehired after Helmsley's income tax evasion conviction, Beber developed the slogan \"Say what you will, she runs a helluva hotel.\"\n\nBeber suffered a stroke in 2003, and died in Miami at age 80 on September 17, 2010 of leukemia. She was survived by her husband, two daughters and four grandchildren. Her daughter Jennifer joined the firm in 1988, later becoming its president. Beber's other daughter, Neena, is a playwright.\n"}
{"id": "2189967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189967", "title": "Leontief production function", "text": "Leontief production function\n\nIn economics, the Leontief production function or fixed proportions production function is a production function that implies the factors of production will be used in fixed (technologically pre-determined) proportions, as there is no substitutability between factors. It was named after Wassily Leontief and represents a limiting case of the constant elasticity of substitution production function.\n\nFor the simple case of a good that is produced with two inputs, the function is of the form\n\nwhere \"q\" is the quantity of output produced, \"z\" and \"z\" are the utilised quantities of input 1 and input 2 respectively, and \"a\" and \"b\" are technologically determined constants.\n\nSuppose that the intermediate goods \"tires\" and \"steering wheels\" are used in the production of automobiles (for simplicity of the example, to the exclusion of anything else). Then in the above formula \"q\" refers to the number of automobiles produced, \"z\" refers to the number of tires used, and \"z\" refers to the number of steering wheels used. Assuming each car is produced with 4 tires and 1 steering wheel, the Leontief production function is\n\n"}
{"id": "23105592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23105592", "title": "Maciej Popowicz", "text": "Maciej Popowicz\n\nMaciej Popowicz (born 1984) – creator of nasza-klasa.pl, the Polish version of social networking site Classmates.com and student of computer science at University of Wrocław. He became one of the youngest Polish millionaires, after he sold 20% of shares of nasza-klasa.pl (20,000,000 zlotys, about $6,300,000, €4,500,000, £3,850,000) to German venture capital fund, \"European Founders\" in 2007. In 2008 Estonian fund \"Forticom\" bought 70% of shares of nasza-klasa.pl, with estimated worth 175,000,000 zlotys (about $55,000,000, €39,000,000, £34,000,000). In 2007 he got the \"Człowiek Roku Polskiego Internetu\" (\"Person of the Year of Polish Internet\") prize.\n"}
{"id": "15359150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15359150", "title": "Metropolitan Park", "text": "Metropolitan Park\n\nMetropolitan Park is a urban waterfront park and concert venue located on the north bank of the St. Johns River in Downtown Jacksonville, Florida. It is projected to be the eastern terminus of the northbank Jacksonville Riverwalk.\n\nThe multi-purpose facility contains an exhibition mall for art, crafts and boat shows, a family picnic and playground area, and an earthen \"bowl\" with a performance pavilion which has a capacity of 10,000 persons and is home to many annual events, including The Jacksonville Jazz Festival, World of Nations Celebration, Spring Music Festival, Freedom, Fanfare & Fireworks on July 4, Planetfest and many more. The Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra occasionally performs there, as have many nationally known entertainers.\n\nThe primary facility is a reversible stage with seating for 3,000 under the large canopy. There is a green room, production office and dressing rooms for performers. The park has full boat docking facilities with 78 boat slips. \nThere are 6 covered picnic shelters and 43 picnic tables, 3 permanent restroom facilities and water fountains, a children's play area, grills, benches & bicycle racks, and security lighting for night use.\n\nThe park is located on what was once a landfill, purchased in May, 1972 for $1 million by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. \nThe present park size is the result of several additions since the initial acquisition in 1972.\n\nDevelopment funding was provided by the City of Jacksonville, the State of Florida-Department of Natural Resources, and public broadcasting station WJCT (TV). The project was planned to be completed in two phases. The first phase included an exhibition mall, family picnic area, playgrounds, and the Performance Pavilion. Florida Governor Bob Graham attended the groundbreaking for the first phase, begun on December 8, 1982 by Mayor Jake Godbold. Work on Phase 1 was completed in 1984 at a cost of $1 million. Metropolitan Park was the winner of the 1986 \"Governor's Design Award\".\n\nPhase 2, which included paved walkways, lighting, landscaping, parking, and the entrance, cost another $1 million. Mayor Tommy Hazouri began the enhancements on May 10, 1990 and construction lasted several months.\nThe Catherine Street Fire Museum was moved to Metro Park property in 1993 but did not open to the public until 2001.\n\nOn November 15, 2008, 40 citizens from Jacksonville were joined by landscape architects and professional urban planners in a Charrette, a community visioning exercise for the future direction of Metropolitan Park. JaxPride, a nonprofit citizen coalition, sponsored the workshop, and the process was used previously on the \"Hemming Park\" to \"Hemming Plaza\" transition and several others. The director of the Jacksonville Economic Development Commission told the participants how his agency viewed the park and afterwards, Mayor John Peyton shared his thoughts:\n\nI am not proud of the quality of this City-owned facility. What we currently have is a grade-A space with grade-D facilities. There's more chain-link fence in that park than anywhere in Jacksonville. People in Seattle would give their right arm to have a riverfront park. I'm going to do everything in my power in the next 31 months until I leave office to make Metropolitan Park a better place for all of us.\n\nThe City of Jacksonville contracted with consulting firm HDR, Inc. to submit a preliminary \"Metropolitan Park Improvement Project\" Master Plan to the City by the end of January, 2009. HDR staff collected hundreds of pages of suggestions, comments, sketches, drawings and ideas from the charrette to review and use in the plan.\nCommunity leaders created the \"Metropolitan Park Kids Kampus Task Force\" in the 1990s to provide input for a new children's play area with physical, intellectual and social benefits. Educators were utilized to design structures and activities that allow children to be curious, explore and manipulate their physical environment. \nConstruction began on Kids Kampus March 8, 2000, and the 10-acre facility, located beside Metro Park, opened March 6, 2001.\nThe park included a soccer field with bleachers, 10 Picnic shelters and individual picnic tables, grills, playground equipment, benches, bike racks, security lighting and a restroom. The largest attraction was a bicycle/tricycle driving range, modeled after downtown Jacksonville, including street signs, traffic signals and buildings. \nThe seasonal water park at Kids Kampus featured \"Three Friends\", a boat-shaped structure with water cannons and a slide; and \"Bayou, Bogs & Frogs\" for children under six.\n\nOn May 5, 2010, JaxParks announced that the Splash Water Park at Kids Kampus would not open for 2010 due to impending demolition as part of Metropolitan Park renovations.\nThat announcement did not explicitly state that Kids Kampus would not return, but the Metro Jacksonville website noted that the Metropolitan Park Concept Plan included a small \"Children's Discovery\" area and the \"Green\" where the Kids Kampus was previously located. As of September 9, 2011, all traces of Kids Kampus had been removed and the area is now a grassy field.\n\nA meeting was held in January, 2010 between Mayor Peyton and several city councilmen to discuss progress on three major downtown improvement projects, including redevelopment of Metropolitan Park. Legislation was filed to fund these three projects with a price tag of $23 million. $8.2 million was allocated to phase one of the Metropolitan Park redevelopment which included replacing the Kidz Kampus children's play area with better water features and access to the Fire Museum; removing fencing and other barriers to river access; and creating a 4-acre public lawn for a wide array of activities, and to include more picnic pavilions and shade trees. On February 9, 2010 the city council passed the three bills without debate, providing final approval for all three projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13835516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13835516", "title": "Michael Cordúa", "text": "Michael Cordúa\n\nMichael Cordúa (born 1961) is a Nicaraguan-born American restaurateur, entrepreneur, former owner of Cordúa Restaurants, and award-winning self-taught chef. Cordúa is the former owner of six restaurants in the Houston, Texas area. He was the first to introduce Houston to Latin American cuisine that was not Mexican.\n\nCordúa was born in Managua, Nicaragua and later moved to Houston, Texas. He graduated with a degree in Economics and Finance from Texas A&M University in 1980. Cordúa worked for a Houston shipping firm until it was liquidated in the late 1980s. After arriving in Houston, Cordúa taught himself to cook, he has said \"The whole reason I got into cooking was because I missed the foods from home\".\n\nHe was named honorary consul of Nicaragua in Houston in 2004. Cordúa married his Nicaraguan sweetheart Lucia in 1980 and has 4 children David, Michelle, Elisa, and Cristina.\n\nCordúa, with inspiration from his uncle's restaurant in Managua and despite having no previous experience in the restaurant business, opened his first 130-seat restaurant, \"Churrascos\", on August 8, 1988. Churrascos was an upscale South American-style restaurant. Four months in, Cordúa was ready to give up due to the restaurant losing money. Many critics, such as the New York Times, praised the new restaurant and in 1989 Churrascos was listed in Esquire magazine's \"Best New Restaurants in America\". Fred Smith, a banker from First National Bank, decided to help him expand after eating at his restaurant. Cordúa took the help and opened a second Churrascos near the downtown Houston area. The second 175-seat Churrascos was opened in 1990 and emphasized a Central American churrasco that made up half of its sales. In 1997 Cordúa opened a third Churrascos in Chicago. It received great reviews from critics, however, after 8 months it closed down when Cordúas partner backed out.\n\nCordúa went on to open 3 other restaurants; Américas in 1993, Amazón Grill in 1999 (2 locations) and Artista in 2002, all of which have received various awards. Cordúa opened another location for his Américas restaurant in 2008 and also owns a catering company, Cordúa catering.\n\nCordúa and his restaurants have received much recognition and many awards throughout the years. He was named by Food & Wine as one of America's \"Top Ten Chefs\" and is received the Robert Mondavi Award for Culinary Excellence in 1994. His restaurant, Churrascos, was named Best South American Restaurant by the Houston Press in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54492467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54492467", "title": "Parsee Rustomjee", "text": "Parsee Rustomjee\n\nRustomjee Jivanji Ghorkhodu (1861 – 14 November 1924), commonly known as Parsee Rustomjee, and by various orthographic variations including Parsi Rustomji and affectionately referred to as Kakaji, was an Indian-South African philanthropist and businessman, well known for his close mentorship, guidance and financial sponsorship of Mahatma Gandhi during his time in South Africa from 1893–1914.\n\nRustomjee was the largest South African contributor to the satyagraha (non-violent resistance). His various philanthropic deeds include establishing the Indian hospital in Durban; the M. K. Gandhi Library and Parsee Rustomjee Hall; Parsee Rustomjee Orphanage; M. K. Gandhi Tamil School; an orphanage connected with the Mosque at Umgeni; an Indian orphanage of the Roman Catholic Church; and part of the cost of a Methodist day school. He also supported several projects of Gandhi in India. There is a primary school in Merebank, KwaZulu-Natal bearing his name.\n\nRustomjee was born in India in 1861 to an Orthodox Parsi Zoroastrian family. His surname Ghorkhodu translates from Gujarati as 'grave-digger' indicating it was potentially the profession of an ancestor which is surprising due to Zoroastrian funerary customs which explicitly forbid burial practices. It has also been proposed that his ancestral surname Ghorkhodu is allegorical, owing to Parsi humour.\n\nRustomjee arrived in Durban aged seventeen. Initially he worked for an aerated water company but later became an influential businessmen and political leader.\n\nMohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Rustomjee soon became close associates soon after Gandhi's arrival in 1893. On August 22, 1894 he co-founded the Natal Indian Congress (NIC) as a Vice-President. Meetings of the NIC were often held at his shop on Field Street, sometimes amongst sacks of grain and bottles of pickle.\n\nGandhi and his young family were given shelter at Rustomjee's house on January 13, 1897, after a mob of Europeans attacked Gandhi. Rustomjee and his property were threatened by the mob but he was unrelenting in his support for Gandhi.\n\nAlongside Shapurji Randeria, Dawad Mahomed, N. C. Anglia and others he tested his domiciliary rights in Transvaal in August 1908. He crossed into the Transvaal by rail to protest the racialist Immigration Restriction acts including the Transvaal Asiatic Registration Act. He was arrested on the 27th of August and ordered to leave the colony, but recorded the border and was sentenced to three months of hard labour.\n\nRustomjee described himself in the Court at Volksrust as a general merchant in Natal, where he was a considerable property owner with large business interests throughout South Africa. He also considered himself to have vested rights as a pre-war resident of the Transvaal. Unusually for a South African-Indian he was a Parliamentary voter registered in Natal. He said he initially arrived in the Transvaal in 1893 and owned three properties there which had been expropriated by the Johannesburg municipality in 1904. His financial affairs in the Transvaal had then been conducted by Gandhi. Owing to his Parsi ethnicity he was exempt from the registration certificates required by the Dutch government and he had been exempted from the necessity of taking a registration certificate under the Dutch government.\n\nOn 11 February 1909, he was sentenced to sixth months of hard labour for refusing to give his thumbprints and sentenced again on 11 August 1909, to six months of hard labour.\n\nGandhi visited him in prison in December 1909 and gravely reported that Rustomjee health was weakening. He walked about with an eye-shade, his sight being affected, he complained of side ache and constitutional disease. In prison Rustomjee lost over seventy lbs. Rustomjee visited Durban in February 1910 to recuperate from his illness. He was greeted by some five hundred people at Durban station and more as he returned home. At his premises on Field Street, he gave a rousing speech arguing the honour of India was threatened.\n\nDespite his stay in Transvaal prisons, Rustomjee insisted on joining a group of resisters from the Phoenix Settlement (to which he had been a major financial benefactor). This included Kasturba Gandhi, who had started the third phase of the satyagraha on 15 September 1913. The fifteen satyagrahis crossed the border at Transvaal and were sentenced on 23 September to three months with hard labour.\n\nRustomjee suffered great persecution during his imprisonment at the Pietermaritzburg jail. He was deprived of his Zoroastrian girdle (kushti) and undershirt (sedreh). Rustomjee went on a hunger strike until these were restored back to his possession. He was eventually given back his girdle and undershirt after protests in both India and South Africa. Rustomjee was also moved to Durban prison where he was assaulted twice by 'native' warders.\n\nIn total he served 18 months in prison during the satyagraha, all with hard labour, at the prisons in Volksrust, Heidelberg, Diepkloof, Johannesburg, Pietermaritzburg and Durban.\n"}
{"id": "1476294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476294", "title": "Peter Wuffli", "text": "Peter Wuffli\n\nPeter A. Wuffli (born 26 October 1957) is a Swiss businessman who was appointed president and chief executive officer of UBS AG in December 2001 after serving as the chef executive of UBS Asset Management and the company's chief financial officer.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1998, he was the Chief Financial Officer at SBC and a member of SBC's Group Executive Board in Basel. There he met Marcel Ospel, and together they rose to top positions with the new UBS AG after the 1998 merger.\n\nIn 1984, he joined McKinsey & Co as management consultant and in 1990 became a partner of McKinsey Switzerland's senior management. He started his professional life, while studying at University of St. Gallen, writing about economics for the Neue Zürcher Zeitung.\n\nHe is a Swiss citizen and a graduate of the University of St. Gallen (1981, doctorate 1984) and has also attended the Advanced Management Program at Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania (1989). He and his wife Susanna have three children. His hobby is opera.\n\nHis father Heinz R. Wuffli was General Director of Credit Suisse from 1967 to 1977, when he resigned as a consequence of the Chiasso affair.\n\nWuffli left as a CEO UBS AG on 6 July 2007. He has renounced about $10 million in payments.\n\nIn December 2006 Wuffli and his wife founded The Elea Foundation for Ethics in Globalization.\n\nHe is Chairman of the Board of Partners Group Holding, a Board member of the Zurich Opera House, member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of the Board of IMD International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne.\n\nHe was president of the Friends of the FDP \"(Freunde der FDP)\" association , founded 2004 to support the Swiss FDP political party, which he has been a member of since his youth.\n\nHe announced that executive salaries at UBS AG were rising, on average, by 21 percent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37927653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37927653", "title": "Public service motivation", "text": "Public service motivation\n\nPublic Service Motivation (PSM) is an attribute of government and non-governmental organization (NGO) employment that explains why individuals have a desire to serve the public and link their personal actions with the overall public interest. Understanding the theory and practice of PSM is important in determining the motivations of individuals who choose careers in the government and non-profit sectors despite the potential for more financially lucrative careers in the private sector.\n\nPSM helps employees get the most out of their job experience and is rapidly evolving to work towards employee goals and company needs effectively. Efforts to manage employee behavior within government organizations by focusing on financial rewards may not have the desired effect and could potentially have a negative impact on employee motivation and performance seeing as how those that do work in the public sector are usually not motivated by financial gain. According to Perry, PSM in today's society is more about focusing on employee commitment to an organization rather than benefits of a higher salary. One way PSM output can be measured is by team performance which encourages individuals to engage in behaviors that are best for the team’s success and productivity. Performance can be measured in different categories and various outcomes can be utilized in order to help the organization set goals and interpret the results to tweak their motivational techniques. One area or aspect of management that relies heavily on motivation is when an organization or company determines how to distribute rewards to employees. Gottfredson emphasized that rewards may be the most important tool that business leaders have to coordinate and motivate team members with the idea that rewards can be monetary or promotional, but motivation plays a key part in how hard employees will work to receive rewards.\n\nPublic Service Motivation serves to provide the general public with an idea of what motivates individuals to choose career paths within the public sector as opposed to the private. Previous research emphasized that PSM was influenced by various social and political factors that ultimately drive employees to take an interest in the public sector. The history and concept of public service motivation has been studied by authors who contributed to the understanding of the practice itself such as Perry and Wise who coined the term PSM in 1990, and other political figures such as Woodrow Wilson who founded the field of Public Administration. Perry and Wise stated that PSM is often influenced by various social, political, and institutional factors and failure on the organization's part to recognize the motivation of its employees could lead to the discouragement of such individuals from the public sector.\n\nMission Valence can be viewed as an employee’s perception of the attractiveness or salience of an organization’s purpose or social contribution. Mission Valence is a concept formulated by Rainey and Steinbauer in 1999 that serves to provide a better understanding of what compels an employee to uphold and achieve goals within their organization. Mission Valence enhances the satisfaction that an individual experiences or anticipates to receive from advancing the organizational mission, and in turn, it has the \"potential to influence the ability of the organization to recruit, retain, and motivate its employees.\" Ultimately, linking the organization’s mission to the values and characteristics of the employee can increase the potential effects of PSM as members of the organization become committed to its success. Rainey and Steinbauer attribute mission valence to enhancing the satisfaction of an employee when the organization’s mission or goal is achieved thus giving the employer the ability to motivate his or her employees and seek their retention. With the desire to help others, public employees are more likely to seek employment within a public organization because the particular mission of that organization often aligns with their own personal values. Previous studies enhance the notion that leadership along with effective management can increase employee mission valence through its ability to promote public service motivation.\n\nTransformational leadership moves away from a traditional management perspective that is based on self-interest and the exchanging of rewards for positive performance, and instead proposes the ideology of value based leadership to inspire and thus motivate employees. Although value based leadership is not new to the scope of public management, it is important to understand the evolution of how employers communicate the vision of the organization’s purpose to their employees. Transformational leadership can motivate employees by appealing to their ideals and moral values, which in turn leads to a more effective and meaningful work environment. Transformational leaders create shared organizational value through \"inspirational communication, ongoing practices, setting meaningful goals and designating significant work.\" Paarlberg and Lavigna exclaim that linking transformational leadership and public service motivation to human resource management strategies will not radically improve the outcome of the workplace, but rather steadily transform management practices to garner the best organizational outcome to better motivate public sector employees.\n\nThe impact of organizational institutions can either have a positive or negative ramifications on the motivational attitude of employees. According to Perry and Wise, whose theories contributed to the understanding of the ongoing relationship between one's overall motivation and the public interest, provided the widely accepted definition of PSM as an individual’s \"predisposition to respond to motives grounded primarily or uniquely in public institutions and organizations.\" Under this definition, organizations have the duty and responsibility to foster an environment that allows employees to feel as if they are able to contribute to the general welfare of the public and can achieve their goals. Various scholars and researchers emphasize the role of organizations as an important aspect of PSM and indicate several factors that face employees on a regular basis that could either promote or hinder PSM. Perry and Wise specify those factors of an organization that influence PSM to include culture within an organization which can negatively be associated with PSM as hierarchical cultures tend to emphasize rule-based control of employees and bureaucratic personality, employees that experience red tape who often are characterized with lower levels of PSM as red tape includes rules regulations, and procedures that remain in force and entail a compliance burden, but do not advance the legitimate purposes the rules were intended to serve. Employees who had a lower level of job satisfaction were reported as more willing to tolerate red tape as opposed to those employees characterized with higher levels of PSM who were frustrated with the limitations of such constrictions. Educational level of organizational members reportedly had a positive relationship on the overall level of PSM of the individual. Wright, Pandey, and Moynihan emphasize that it is vital that organizational leaders understand the various factors that affect PSM in order help employees achieve their goals within the organization and provide for a better work environment.\n\nEarly authors in the field of public administration described differences between public and private employees and concerns over motivating public sector employees. Paul Van Riper described the issue in his 1952 history of the U.S. civil service system. Even Woodrow Wilson's seminal 1887 essay that founded the field of Public Administration expressed concern over the performance of civil servants. Much of Max Weber's work on bureaucracy focused on similar issues. Kaufman's \"The Forest Ranger\" introduced the idea of an organizational culture unique to government employees in the 1960s, which contributed significantly to the field of study.\n\nThe concept of Public Service Motivation was formalized in the late 1970s and early 1980s by authors like Buchanan, Mosher, Perry, Porter, and Rainey; but the term was officially coined by Perry and Wise in 1990. Since then, PSM has gained international prominence from various scholars and researchers. PSM varies between employees making it difficult to generalize the motivations of each individual who works in the public sector. Studies by Homberg, McCarthy, and Tabvuma attribute PSM to the positive impact on job satisfaction in the public sector because public employment helps satisfy individuals’ pro-social needs. Previous authors that are familiar with motivational factors associated with the public sector suggests that many employees tend to characterize themselves with pro-social identities such as caring and compassionate. Researchers of motivational theory and management emphasize that individuals will go above and beyond to be viewed as \"moral\" or good by their peers and fellow employees, so finding pro-social ways to motivate individuals can be beneficial.\n\nCrewson argued that a responsive and cost-effective government should acknowledge that a failure to properly understand the motivations of public employees may have undesirable short term effects such as low job performance which may lead to long term effects such as the permanent displacement of the public service ethic.\n\nRosenblatt noted that there is a surprising link between PSM and motivation. After closely observing employees in the public section, material indicated that when PSM encourages individuals it can spark innovation. When employees are rewarded for previous accomplishments in the workplace, they are motivated to do even more, although that motivation is not necessarily coming from a genuine place and instead comes from the desire to receive more rewards. Rosenblatt reaffirms the notion that individuals aren't to concern themselves with what their driving force for may be, whether they are making accomplishments because they want to be innovative or because they want to receive a bonus, the ends will ultimately justify the means.\n\nMatei and Cornea considered that although intrinsic, PSM is influenced by a variety of external factors such as social, political, institutional etc. and, in time, those factors can have an effect and lead to a change in the initial PSM of the individual that was present at the beginning of the position. Such factors demonstrate that if the external factors that act on the public servant are negative, PSM will influence the behavior of the individual for a period of time that is smaller than the professional career of that individual. If the extrinsic factors are positive, PSM can influence the behavior of the public servant throughout their entire career. Matei and Cornea concluded that during this period of time, when PSM influences the activity of the individual, the public servant is led by a certain “lyricism of public service\", and connected to their job by “administrative romanticism\" with the ultimate desire to serve their community, state, nation etc.\n\nMann also conducted a study among non profit employees and came to the conclusion that although there is a dichotomy within the public and private sectors, if an employee is working for a non profit organization he or she would be satisfied regardless of PSM or not. The reason behind this behavior is because employees who work for non profits already have a passion for the work that they do. According to Mann's study, even if these individuals didn't receive compensation, they would return to work the next day and work just as hard because they have intrinsic motivation that doesn't need to be externalized.\n\nPrevious scholars and researchers warn that PSM can also be influenced by negative factors such as institutionalized values, routinization of behaviors and skepticism about the value of the particular bureaucracy's effectiveness in promoting the public good. Budget maximization and \"empire building\" were also scrutinized by Downs and Niskanen.\n\nThe agency's mission, goals, and objectives can help improve employee performance and motivation. Many employees who hold jobs within the public sector and non-profit organizations do not receive large salaries. It is important for an organization to motivate its employees and align their values and characteristics with the mission and values of the agency rather than subject employees to a stressful and hostile work environment motivated by financial gain. Leadership practices should emphasize to employees the importance of motivation and involvement which can ultimately help the agency or organization in the hiring and retention process if they are aware of the motives of their employees.\n\nStudies performed by various researchers attribute an individual's motivation with the individual level of stress and job dissatisfaction. These factors can lead to surface acting which is characterized by adjusting observable emotional expressions to mask true feelings, pretending to feel a desired emotion, and faking emotional displays. It is hard to evaluate the motivation of each individual working in the public sector when they exhibit a false persona. Representing an agency or organization in the public sector often requires one to display and act in a certain behavior and attitude. This behavior often leads to surface acting.\n\nSituational factors such as the frequency of customer interactions, the duration of such interactions, career fields, customer hostility, and organizational expectations can all contribute to one's emotional labor. Emotional labor is the act of behaving or displaying specific emotions and behaviors within one's job profession. Employees are constantly under the influence of interactions between other employees and customers. Many citizens expect a certain level of satisfaction from each level of government which often burdens the employee with an immense amount of pressure to fulfill those expectations and who in turn will often face backlash and harsh criticism when citizens feel they are not satisfied.\n\nIf an employee finds themselves in a hostile, stressful work environment this can deter motivation and counteract productivity which can ultimately effect the individuals goals, expectations, and disrupt the balance of the workplace. Motivation stems from an individuals desire to satisfy the needs for automaton, direct communication between employees, and asocial inclusions. Having an open approach in the workplace can help new less experienced employees feel a sense of involvement and value which an ultimately increase their motivation to succeed and continue with the organization and vie for its success. As generational changes continue to occur and public sector employees rotate between positions, it is vital to understand how employment relationships can be improved in order to increase public service motivation. Nonprofit employees are becoming more similar to public employees based on motivational aspects such as intrinsic rewards.\n\n"}
{"id": "23629893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23629893", "title": "Richard \"Squire\" Lee", "text": "Richard \"Squire\" Lee\n\nRichard Lee (1726–1795), known most commonly as \"Squire\", was a prominent Virginian colonist, and American politician, who was active in the American Revolutionary War.\n\nHe was born at \"Lee Hall\" in Westmoreland County, Virginia, the third of seven children born to Henry Lee I (1691–1747) and Mary Bland (1704–1764). Through his father's brother, Thomas 1690-1750, he was the first cousin of Revolutionary War hero's Henry Lee and \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee both signers of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn 1786, at the age of 60, he married 17-year-old Sarah Bland \"Sally\" Poythress (1768 – 24 May 1828), a daughter of Peter Poythress (1715–1785) of \"Branchester\" and Elizabeth Bland (1733–1792). The couple had 5 children;\n\n\nGreat uncle of Robert E Lee\n\nAfter his death, Sally married secondly Willoughby Newton and was the mother of Willoughby Newton.\n\nSquire served in the Virginia House of Burgesses, as a representative from Westmoreland, for the years 1757–58, 1762, 1769, 1772, & 1774. The House of Burgesses became the Virginia House of Delegates in 1776, due to the outbreak of the war, and Richard served there during the years 1777, 1780, 1784–87, 1790 & 1793.\n\nHe was a delegate to the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1775–76, which drafted the 1776 version of the Constitution of Virginia. He later served as Justice of the Peace for Westmoreland County, Virginia and was a Naval Officer for the Port of Potomac.\n"}
{"id": "34592301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34592301", "title": "Robert Kerridge", "text": "Robert Kerridge\n\nSir Robert James Kerridge (30 October 1901 – 26 April 1979) was a New Zealand businessman, cinema proprietor, film distributor, tourism promoter and entrepreneur. He was born in Christchurch, North Canterbury, New Zealand on 30 October 1901. He developed a theatre chain that owned or controlled 133 cinemas, the biggest exhibition chain in New Zealand or Australia. In 1946 Kerridge sold 50 per cent of his cinema chain to the J. Arthur Rank Organisation of London, netting the vendors almost £1 million, and a Rolls Royce car for Kerridge. The chain was renamed Kerridge Odeon.\n"}
{"id": "24615479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24615479", "title": "Search analytics", "text": "Search analytics\n\nSearch analytics is the use of search data to investigate particular interactions among Web searchers, the search engine, or the content during searching episodes. The resulting analysis and aggregation of search engine statistics can be used in search engine marketing (SEM) and search engine optimization (SEO). In other words, search analytics helps website owners understand and improve their performance on search engines, for example identifying highly valuable site visitors, or understanding user intent. Search analytics includes search volume trends and analysis, reverse searching (entering websites to see their keywords), keyword monitoring, search result and advertisement history, advertisement spending statistics, website comparisons, affiliate marketing statistics, multivariate ad testing, et al.\n\nLast updated: \n\nSearch analytics data can be collected in several ways. Search engines provide access to their own data with services such as Google Analytics, Google Trends and Google Insights. Third party services must collect their data from ISP's, phoning home software, or from scraping search engines. Getting traffic statistics from ISP's and phone homes provides for broader reporting of web traffic in addition to search analytics. Services that perform keyword monitoring only scrape a limited set of search results depending on their clients' needs. Services providing reverse search however, must scrape a large set of keywords from the search engines, usually in the millions, to find the keywords that everyone is using.\n\nSince search results, especially advertisements, differ depending on where you are searching from, data collection methods have to account for geographic location. Keyword monitors do this more easily since they typically know what location their client is targeting. However, to get an exhaustive reverse search, several locations need to be scraped for the same keyword.\n\nSearch analytics accuracy depends on service being used, data collection method, and data freshness. Google releases its own data, but only in an aggregated way and often without assigning absolute values such as number of visitors to its graphs. ISP logs and phone home methods are accurate for the population they sample, so sample size and demographics must be adequate to accurately represent the larger population. Scraping results can be highly accurate, especially when looking at the non-paid, organic search results. Paid results, from Google Adwords for example, are often different for the same search depending on the time, geographic location, and history of searches from a particular computer. This means that scraping advertisers can be hit or miss.\n\nTaking a look at Google Insights to gauge the popularity of these services shows that compared to searches for the term Adwords (Google's popular search ad system), use of search analytics services is still very low, around 1-25% as of Oct. 2009. This could point to a large opportunity for the users and makers of search analytics given that services have existed since 2004 with several new services being started since.\n\n"}
{"id": "53672717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53672717", "title": "SimPRO", "text": "SimPRO\n\nsimPRO is a private SaaS company that provides cloud-based job and project management software to those in field service and trade contracting industries. Their clientele range from SME contracting businesses to large-scale enterprises and projects. \n\nThe company has a global reach, with customers and partners in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. simPRO offices are located in each of these countries, with the more recent opening for operation in Colorado in the United States. \n\nAs of the end of 2017, the company services approximately 4,000+ businesses and 100,000+ users.\n\nsimPRO was founded in 2002, after electrical business owner Steve Bradshaw approached software engineering student Vaughan McKillop about creating a website for his growing electrical contracting business. When Vaughn explained to Steve that his strengths lay in writing software rather than web design, Steve quickly realised he could build something big to help his business. Using the web-based PHP and MySQL languages that Vaughan knew well, the two men began to create simPRO's first iteration. \n\nInitially they focused on making digital job lists, and then moved on to building a scheduling tool that could allocate time and technicians. As Vaughan and Steve continued to expand on the software's capability and functionality, they realised that the tool they had created could not only help Steve's business, but many others.\n\nThe company first started trading as Acorn Software and Service Management Pty Ltd in 2003, then changed its name is simPRO Software in 2011 and simPRO in 2017.\n\nAt at October, 2018, the simPRO Board of Management and Executive Team has six members: Chief Executive Officer Sean Diljore, Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer Alan Bignell, Chief Marketing Officer Vanessa Winter, and Chief Technology Officer Jonathan Eastgate.\n\nPeter Darley is currently General Manager for simPRO Australia, and Ricky Sevta is General Manager simPRO New Zealand. In 2009, simPRO was launched in the United Kingdom and it’s current General Manager is Richard Pratley, who previously managed the New Zealand office. In 2015, the company opened a location in Colorado, United States, in an effort to grow it’s presence in the local market, it’s current President is Glenn Nott.\n\nIn October 2016, simPRO received USD$31 million in capital funding from New York-based growth equity firm Level Equity. It marked the first time the company has accepted external investment since its founding.\n\nLevel Equity Partner Benjamin Levin and Principal Charles Chen now sit on the simPRO Board of Directors.\n\nIn 2013, simPRO acquired vehicle fleet tracking and management company simTRAC for AUD$2.5 million, which is designed to help business managers monitor their work vehicles on the road in real time and minimise travel times.\n\nsimPRO's key features include quoting and estimating, scheduling, service and project management, inventory management, asset maintenance and invoicing and payment processing. Integration with accounting software is designed to eliminate double entry of data, provide transfer of financial data, and assist with financial reporting.\n\nsimPRO's mobile applications can be used on smartphones and tablets (iOS and Android operation systems) to keep remote staff connected with the office. With the simPRO Connect app, field users can process payment after a job complete with a customer's credit card. The simPRO eForms app can be used to digitise a company's existing paper forms for use in the field.\n\nsimPRO pursues technological advancements and add-on solutions for its customer base by way of innovation such as The Internet Of Things and new Data Feeds for efficient data processing.\n\nsimPRO’s add-on solutions include: \n\n\nsimPRO's support network offers global assistance via phone, online chat, and email. Free webinars are also available to help users understand the software's functionality and features.\n\nsimPRO Software integrates with a range of third-party applications, such as cloud accounting software Sage, Xero, MYOB, and QuickBooks, IT services such as AppsWiz compliance apps such as New Zealand's CERTIFi, and marketing apps such as the United Kingdom's online Marketplace Rated People.\n\nsimPRO partners with a large volume of like-minded and innovative local industry trade associations worldwide.\n\nThrough these partnerships there is a shared common goal of collaboration to implement efficient processes and effective workflows for businesses globally\n\nIn 2018 simPRO was recognised as an example of innovation in Australia and New Zealand, after making the 2018 AFR Most Innovative Companies List. Published annually by The Australian Financial Review, the prestigious list is based on a rigorous assessment process managed by Australia’s leading innovation consultancy, Inventium, in conjunction with a panel of industry expert judges. The full Top 100 list can be viewed here.\n\nsimPRO ranked 86th on the overall list, from over 1,000 nominated organisations across Australia and New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "55688446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55688446", "title": "Sonia Mugabo", "text": "Sonia Mugabo\n\nSonia Mugabo a businesswoman, fashion designer and fashionista in Rwanda. She is the founder and chief executive officer of the fashion label \"Sonia Mugabo\", which is named after her.\n\nShe was born in Kigali, on May 5th, in1990. In an interview with Forbes in August 2015, Mugabo stated that she was four years old during the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against the Tutsi. She attended Green Hills Academy, an international pre-university institution of learning, in Rwanda.\n\nShe then received a scholarship to finish her high school education at Lake Forest Academy (LFA), a prestigious co-educational boarding and day high school (grades 9 to 12), located in Lake Forest, Illinois in the United States. She attended Buena Vista University, in Storm Lake, Iowa, United States, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Visual Communication and Graphic Design. While at university, she interned at Teen Vogue, in New York City, in 2011.\n\nMugabo is the founder and chief executive of the Sonia Mugabo fashion label, which is named after her. She established her fashion label in 2013, after graduation from university. The label made its first public showcase in October 2013 at the \"Kigali Fashion Week\". As of November 2017, the label develops two collections annually. Sonia Mugabo designs clothes for both men and women, using locally-sourced material.\n\nIn March 2017, Sonia Mugabo was named among \"30 Most Promising Young Entrepreneurs In Africa 2017\" by Forbes.com. As of March 2017, she owned two branded stores in Kigali. A reader of the English language daily newspaper, the \"New Times\", wrote to the Editor in January 2017, noting that Mugabo is an inspiration to the youth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "580994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580994", "title": "The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit", "text": "The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit\n\nThe Man in the Gray Flannel Suit is a 1956 American drama film based on the 1955 novel of the same name by Sloan Wilson. The film focuses on Tom Rath, a young World War II veteran trying to balance his marriage and family life with the demands of a new job while dealing with the aftereffects of his war service. The film stars Gregory Peck as Rath and Jennifer Jones as his wife, with Fredric March, Lee J. Cobb, Keenan Wynn and Marisa Pavan in supporting roles. It was entered at the 1956 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nTen years after the end of World War II, Tom Rath (Gregory Peck) is living in suburban Connecticut with his wife Betsy (Jennifer Jones) and three children; he's having difficulty supporting his family on his salary writing for a nonprofit organization. Tom is also dealing with flashbacks from his combat service as an Army Captain in both the European and Pacific theaters, involving men that he killed (including, by accident, his best friend), and a young Italian girl named Maria (Marisa Pavan), with whom he had a brief but heartfelt affair in Italy despite his being in a relationship with Betsy at the time. Before he left Maria for the final time to go back into battle, Tom was told that she was pregnant and was going to keep the baby. He would never see her or the child again.\n\nWhen an expected inheritance from Tom's recently deceased grandmother turns out to have been depleted, leaving only her large and unsaleable mansion, Betsy pressures Tom to seek a higher-paying job. Acting on a tip from a fellow train commuter, Tom applies for an opening in public relations at television network UBC. Asked to write his autobiography as part of the interview process, he refuses. Hired nonetheless, he helps network president Ralph Hopkins (Fredric March) launch a national mental health campaign. Hopkins is powerful and highly respected, but unbeknownst to his employees, his workaholic habits have caused him to be estranged from his wife and his rebellious daughter, who soon elopes with an unsuitable man.\n\nTom is initially supervised by Bill Ogden (Henry Daniell), a micromanager and office politician who rejects Tom's drafts of an important Hopkins speech intended to launch the campaign, substituting his own draft consisting of what Ogden thinks Hopkins wants to hear. Tom plans to play along and accept Ogden's draft but, coaxed by Betsy, presents his original ideas to Hopkins instead. Hopkins, who has just received the unwelcome news of his daughter's elopement, is receptive to Tom's criticism and thinks Tom resembles his own late son, who refused to accept an officer's commission in World War II and was subsequently killed in action as an enlisted man. Hopkins now regrets having ignored his family and advises Tom not to make the same mistake.\n\nBetsy abruptly sells the family's modest dwelling and moves them into Tom's late grandmother's mansion, \"Dragonwyck,\" only to find that Edward (Joseph Sweeney), the old woman's longtime caretaker, is claiming that Tom's grandmother had bequeathed him the estate. Judge Bernstein (Lee J. Cobb) intercedes and presents evidence that suggests that not only did Edward forge the bequest letter, but he also padded his bills, thus depleting the estate and accumulating a large fortune in the town's bank that he could not otherwise explain. The Raths are able to keep the house.\n\nAt his new job, Tom runs into elevator operator Caesar (Keenan Wynn), a sergeant with whom he'd served in Italy. Caesar is married to Maria's cousin and tells Tom that Maria and her son by Tom are desperate for money in their still war-ravaged country. Tom has kept his affair and child a secret from Betsy, but he now decides to tell her, remembering her admonition to be honest at all times. Betsy reacts angrily and speeds away recklessly in her car. They reconcile at the local police station. Tom and Betsy go to Judge Bernstein to set up a trust fund for Tom's son in Italy. That night, Hopkins calls to ask Tom to accompany him on a trip to California in support of the new campaign. Tom declines, saying he just wants to \"work 9 to 5 and spend the rest of the time with my family,\" a decision Hopkins respectfully accepts.\n\nContemporary reviews of the film were somewhat mixed. Bosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" declared it \"a mature, fascinating and often quite tender and touching film.\" \"Variety\" wrote that the film \"often seems episodic and it's over-long,\" finding Johnson's direction \"uneven\" and holding him \"responsible for the fact that the picture so determinedly misses the point of the book which made the flannel suit a symbol rather than just a garment.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" called it \"one of the most absorbing pictures of the year,\" with \"exceptionally fine\" acting. John McCarten of \"The New Yorker\" thought the film was too long and suggested that the flashbacks should have been trimmed, concluding that \"if it were an old-fashioned serial, I'm sure we might have been able to tolerate it. In one massive dose, though, it's just too damned much, and I think you'd be better off taking a tranquilizer pill than going through all this for the sake of escaping the world and its woes.\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote: \"As a sociological document, a particular view of the contemporary American middle-class scene, the film is uneasily fascinating. Otherwise, this is a characteristic best-seller adaptation, over-long, over-loaded with 'production values', padded out with flashbacks to the war years, and efficiently impersonal in its approach.\"\n\nThe film, like the novel on which it was based, became hugely popular. Historian Robert Schultz argues that the film and the novel are cultural representations of what Adlai Stevenson had described in 1955 as a \"crisis in the western world\", \"collectivism colliding with individualism,\" the collective demands of corporate organizations against traditional roles of spouse and parent. That increased corporate organization of society, Schultz notes, reduced white-collar workers' (represented by Tom Rath and the other gray-suited \"yes men\") control over what they did and how they did it as they adapted to the \"organized system\" described and critiqued by contemporary social critics such as Paul Goodman, C. Wright Mills, and William H. Whyte, Jr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9523325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9523325", "title": "Two Embarcadero Center", "text": "Two Embarcadero Center\n\nTwo Embarcadero Center is an office skyscraper located off The Embarcadero in the financial district of San Francisco, California. The , 30 story tower, completed in 1974 is part of the Embarcadero Center, a complex of seven towers, of which two are hotels. Twin-tower Three Embarcadero Center is the same height, but has one additional floor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "330862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330862", "title": "Vanderbilt family", "text": "Vanderbilt family\n\nThe Vanderbilt family is an American family of Dutch origin who gained prominence during the Gilded Age. Their success began with the shipping and railroad empires of Cornelius Vanderbilt, and the family expanded into various other areas of industry and philanthropy. Cornelius Vanderbilt's descendants went on to build grand mansions on Fifth Avenue in New York City, luxurious \"summer cottages\" in Newport, Rhode Island, the palatial Biltmore House in Asheville, North Carolina, and various other opulent homes.\n\nThe Vanderbilts were once the wealthiest family in America. Cornelius Vanderbilt was the richest American until his death in 1877. After that, his son William acquired his father's fortune, and was the richest American until his death in 1885. The Vanderbilts' prominence lasted until the mid-20th century, when the family's 10 great Fifth Avenue mansions were torn down, and most other Vanderbilt houses were sold or turned into museums in what has been referred to as the \"Fall of the House of Vanderbilt\".\n\nBranches of the family are found on the United States East Coast. Contemporary descendants include fashion designer Gloria Vanderbilt, her youngest son, journalist Anderson Cooper, actor Timothy Olyphant, musician John P. Hammond and screenwriter James Vanderbilt.\n\nThe progenitor of the Vanderbilt family was Jan Aertszoon or Aertson (1620–1705), a Dutch farmer from the village of De Bilt in Utrecht, Netherlands, who emigrated to the Dutch colony of New Netherland as an indentured servant to the Van Kouwenhoven family in 1650. Jan's village name was added to the Dutch \"Van\" (from) to create \"Van der Bilt\", which evolved into Vanderbilt when the English took control of New Amsterdam (now Manhattan). The family is associated with the Dutch patrician Van der Bilt. \n\nHis great-great-great-grandson Cornelius Vanderbilt began the prominence of the family, the fourth of nine children born to a Staten Island family of modest means. Through his paternal great-great grandmother Abigail Southard, he descends from Republic of Salé President Jan Janszoon and his son Anthony Janszoon van Salee. They were among the earliest arrivals to 17th century New Amsterdam. In a number of documents dating back to this period, Anthony is described as tawny or mulatto, as his mother was of Berber origin from Cartagena in the Kingdom of Murcia. Cornelius Vanderbilt left school at age 11 and went on to build a shipping and railroad empire that, during the 19th century, would make him one of the wealthiest men in the world. Starting with a single boat, he grew his fleet until he was competing with Robert Fulton for dominance of the New York waterways, his energy and eagerness earning him the nickname \"Commodore\", then the highest rank in the United States Navy. Fulton's company had established a monopoly on trade in and out of New York Harbor. Vanderbilt, based in New Jersey at the time, flouted the law, steaming in and out of the harbor under a flag that read, \"New Jersey Must Be Free!\" He also hired the attorney Daniel Webster to argue his case before the United States Supreme Court; Vanderbilt won, thereby establishing an early precedent for America's first laws of interstate commerce.\n\nThe Vanderbilt family lived on Staten Island until the mid-1800s, when the Commodore built a house on Washington Place (in what is now Greenwich Village). Although he always occupied a relatively modest home, members of his family would use their wealth to build magnificent mansions. Shortly before his death in 1877, Vanderbilt donated US$1 million for the establishment of Vanderbilt University in Nashville.\n\nThe Commodore left the majority of his enormous fortune to his eldest son, William Henry Vanderbilt. William Henry, who outlived his father by just eight years, increased the profitability of his father's holdings, increased the reach of the New York Central Railroad, and doubled the Vanderbilt wealth. He built the first of what would become many grand Vanderbilt mansions on Fifth Avenue, at 640 Fifth Avenue. William Henry appointed his first son, Cornelius Vanderbilt II, as the next \"Head of House\".\n\nCornelius II built the largest private home in New York, at 1 West 58th Street, containing approximately 154 rooms, designed by George B. Post. He also built The Breakers in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nCornelius II's brother, William Kissam Vanderbilt, also featured prominently in the family's affairs. He also built a magnificent home on Fifth Avenue and would become one of the great architectural patrons of the Gilded Age, hiring the architects for (the third, and surviving) Grand Central Terminal. He also built Marble House at 596 Bellevue Avenue in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nGeorge Washington Vanderbilt II, William Henry Vanderbilt's youngest son, built Biltmore, in Asheville, North Carolina.\n\nWhile some of Cornelius Vanderbilt's descendants gained fame in business, others achieved prominence in other ways, e.g.:\n\nIn 1855, Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt donated 45 acres (~182,000 m²) of property to the Moravian Church and cemetery at New Dorp on Staten Island, New York. Later, his son William Henry Vanderbilt donated a further four acres (16,000 m²). The Vanderbilt Mausoleum was designed in 1885 by architect Richard Morris Hunt and landscaped by Frederick Law Olmsted.\n\n\"The following list includes etiquette guru Amy Vanderbilt (1908–1974), although it is believed she descended from either an uncle or brother of Cornelius Vanderbilt and is therefore not a descendant of Cornelius Vanderbilt. The list also includes Deryck Gray-Vanderbilt, illegitimate grandchild of Alfred Vanderbilt; Josiah Hornblower (b. 1975), a distant cousin of the Vanderbilts and Whitney family who was featured in the 2003 documentary, Born Rich; and Alfred G. Vanderbilt's daughter, Rita L. Vanderbilt Macdonald.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56613282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56613282", "title": "Vilhelmína Lever", "text": "Vilhelmína Lever\n\nVilhelmína Lever (1802–1879) was an Icelandic shopkeeper and restaurateur from Akureyri in northern Iceland. She is remembered for voting in the municipal elections in 1863 and 1866 before women were officially given voting rights.\n\nBorn on 1 March 1802, Vilhelmína Lever was the daughter of Hans Vilhelms Lever, a merchant, and his wife Þuríður Sigfúsdóttir. She married Thord Daníelsson but obtained a divorce in 1824, becoming the first woman in Iceland to apply for a divorce. She bought a plot of land in Akureyri in 1834, built a small house and opened a shop in 1835. After spending a few years in Krossanes, she returned to Akureyri in 1852 to run a shop combined with a restaurant. In 1861, she opened a restaurant in the Oddeyri district of Akureyri. She ran it for years, gaining the nickname \"Vertshús-Mína\" or Tavern-Mina.\n\nNew regulations in Danish stated that the town council could be elected by \"alle fuldmyndige Mænd\" (all men who have reached their majority) who had lived in the town for two years and paid municipal dues. Assuming \"mænd\" meant all people (as in Icelandic) and not just men, Vilhelmína voted in the municipal elections in both 1863 and 1866.\n\nLater Vilhelmína lived in Nonnahús (Nonni's House), Akureyri's oldest house. She died in Akureyri on 19 June 1879.\n"}
{"id": "2159006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2159006", "title": "Voucher", "text": "Voucher\n\nA voucher is a bond of the redeemable transaction type which is worth a certain monetary value and which may be spent only for specific reasons or on specific goods. Examples include housing, travel, and food vouchers. The term voucher is also a synonym for receipt and is often used to refer to receipts used as evidence of, for example, the declaration that a service has been performed or that an expenditure has been made.Voucher is a tourist guide for using services with a guarantee of payment by the agency.\n\nThe term is also commonly used for school vouchers, which are somewhat different.\n\nVouchers are used in the tourism sector primarily as proof of a named customer's right to take a service at a specific time and place. Service providers collect them to return to the tour operator or travel agent that has sent that customer, to prove they have given the service. So, the life of a voucher is as below:\n\n\nThis approach is most suitable for free individual tourist activities where pre-allocation for services are not necessary, feasible or applicable. It was customary before the information era when communication was limited and expensive, but now has been given quite a different role by B2C applications. When a reservation is made through the internet, customers are often provided a voucher through email or a web site that can be printed. Providers customarily require this voucher be presented prior to providing the service.\n\nA voucher is an accounting document representing an \"internal intent\" to make a payment to an \"external entity\", such as a vendor or service provider. A voucher is produced usually after receiving a vendor invoice, after the invoice is successfully matched to a purchase order. A voucher will contain detailed information regarding the payee, the monetary amount of the payment, a description of the transaction, and more. In accounts payable systems, a process called a \"payment run\" is executed to generate payments corresponding to the unpaid vouchers. These payments can then be released or held at the discretion of an accounts payable supervisor or the company controller.\n\nThe term can also be used with reference to accounts receivable, where it is also a document representing intent to make an adjustment to an account, and for the general ledger where there is need to adjust the accounts within that ledger; in that case it is referred to as a journal voucher.\n\nAny documentary evidence supporting the entries recorded in the books of accounts, establishing the arithmetic accuracy of the transaction, may also be referred to as a voucher—for example, a bill, invoice, receipt, salary and wages sheet, memorandum of association, counterfoil of paying-in slip, counterfoil of cheque book, or trust deed.\n\nA voucher is a recharge number sold to a customer to recharge their SIM card with money and to extend the card's availability period. Vouchers are typically sold at retail outlets, such as phone stores run by the mobile operator or by distributors, grocery stores, and gas stations.\n\nVouchers are the prevalent form of recharge for prepaid mobile phones in many countries such as Italy and Spain where well over 90% of consumers use vouchers, and the UK where over 60% buy vouchers at retail. In other countries such as the United States, Ireland, and many Nordic countries, there is a growing trend of customers using Card Not Present recharge options such as online payments, or by using their mobile handsets to call the operator and recharge with a representative (CSR) or through their IVR (Interactive Voice Response) system. A growing number of prepaid mobile operators such as Meteor in Ireland and T-Mobile USA are offering the option to send an SMS (text to pay), or use handset applications such as WAP or BREW technology.\n\nA voucher can also be used online in the form of an e-voucher. These types of vouchers can be entered when shopping online and the relevant vouchers value added to your order. It can take the form of any code. Many companies have opted to use voucher codes for the last few years but with a massive incline in use towards late 2008 and early 2009. There are many Internet websites devoted to promoting these deals and vouchers online, as well as Facebook groups offering items such as student discounts and 2-for-1 restaurant voucher deals. Many companies have started their business around coupons. It comes under affiliate marketing. \n\nThere are a small number of sites that use a disreputable method of click to reveal method for dropping cookies on the consumer's computer, which has led to the introduction of guidelines for voucher use in Internet marketing.\n\nMost video game special editions come with a voucher for exclusive content in-game. Also, pre-ordering games at certain shops may entitle the purchaser to vouchers to content only available if you pre-order at that store.\n\n"}
{"id": "48029762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48029762", "title": "Wojciech Janowski", "text": "Wojciech Janowski\n\nWojciech Janowski (born August 15, 1949) is a Polish-born Monegasque businessman, diplomat and former known as philanthropist. 2018 he was sentenced to jail, after he confessed, that he made the assignment to murder his mother in law.\n\nWojciech Janowski was born on August 15, 1949 in Warsaw, Poland.\n\nJanowski was the manager of hotels and casinos in Monaco. Later, he served as the Chairman of Firmus SAM, a nanotechnology company. \n\nJanowski served as the Chair of the Polish Chamber of Commerce in Monaco. He also served as Poland's honorary consul in Monaco until 2014.\n\nJanowski is a co-founder of Monaco Against Autism (MONAA). He was a recipient of the National Order of Merit for his philanthropy from French President Nicolas Sarkozy in 2010.\n\nJanowski lived with Sylvia Pastor, the daughter of billionaire heiress Hélène Pastor, for 28 years, but they never married. In June 2014, he admitted to being involved with the matriarch's assassination. As of 2015, he was in jail.\n"}
{"id": "47391024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47391024", "title": "Yusuf Alireza", "text": "Yusuf Alireza\n\nYusuf Abdulla Yusuf Akbar Alireza (born August 1970) was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Noble Group, the Hong Kong energy conglomerate, and a Fortune Global 500 company, before being fired in May 2016.\n\nHe was born in Bahrain.\n\nYusuf Alireza received a joint master’s and bachelor’s degree from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. He completed his bachelor’s studies in international economics, pursuing a master’s degree in international relations and affairs.\n\nYusuf Alireza became chief executive officer and executive director of Noble Group in April 2012, succeeding Ricardo Leiman as the head of the Hong Kong-based global supply chain manager of energy and agricultural products. Alireza transitioned the company to an asset-light model and was forced to sell the firm’s Noble Agri business to the Chinese company Cofco Corp after Noble was accused of fraud by Iceberg Research. He was fired in May 2016 after Noble's share price fell by 76%.\n\nPrior to joining Noble Group, he was co-president of Goldman Sachs's Asia operations, excluding Japan, and a member of the firm’s Global Management Committee. He began working at Goldman Sachs New York in 1992, transferring to the firm’s London office in 1997 and becoming the Head of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) sales and structuring efforts. He relocated to Hong Kong in 2008, where he managed the Asia Pacific securities division of Goldman Sachs. \n"}
