{"id": "9406062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9406062", "title": "Algirdas Budrys", "text": "Algirdas Budrys\n\nProfessor Algirdas Budrys (born March 3, 1939 in ) has, for several decades, been one of the most outstanding instrumentalists in Lithuania and is currently Head of the Wind department of the Lithuanian Music Academy.\n\nPrimarily a clarinetist, Budrys has recorded more than 50 LPs and has made over a hundred radio recordings with a repertoire that included all the principal classical and chamber ensemble works for clarinet from Mozart to contemporary composers.\n\nProfessor Budrys has given concerts in all former Soviet republics, as well as in Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, Finland, France, Egypt, Great Britain and the United States.\n\nFor his efforts to improve Lithuanian culture and art, Budrys was awarded a fourth-degree Order of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Gediminas in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2355321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355321", "title": "Bachelor of Arts and Science", "text": "Bachelor of Arts and Science\n\nBachelor of Arts and Science (B.A.S. or B.A.&Sc. or B.A.Sc.) is an undergraduate bachelor's degree conferred by a small number of American universities and a fair number of universities in other English-speaking countries (including Canada and Australia). Generally, to receive a B.A.S. degree, a student would need to complete the general requirements for a bachelor's degree and also the requirements for two different academic majors (or academic minors) — one that usually leads to a B.A. degree and one that usually leads to a B.S. degree. In the United States, the degree is meant to be a four-year degree, but many students will take five years to complete the program.\n\nTechnically speaking, it is not an example of a double degree, as universities only confer a single degree.\n"}
{"id": "8433417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8433417", "title": "Behind the Scenes (U.S. TV series)", "text": "Behind the Scenes (U.S. TV series)\n\nBehind the Scenes was a 10-part television miniseries aimed towards 8- to 12-year-olds about various aspects of the arts, that was broadcast on PBS in 1992. The series was executive produced by Alice Stewart Trillin and Jane Garmey, produced and directed by Ellen Hovde and Muffie Meyer, and hosted by Penn & Teller. It was developed to illuminate the creative process underlying the working of artists.\n\nThe show used a wide variety of short films, computer animation, and music to illustrate certain abstractions associated with the artistic process. Each of Penn & Teller's skits were specifically geared towards demonstrating an aspect of that episode's theme.\n\n\"'To show rhythmic patterns in a song, we produce a mouse each time the pattern goes one way and when there is a variation, we produce a frog,' Teller said. 'This continues until there are quite a number of mice and frogs all over the place.'\"\n\n\"Penn and Teller said they didn't want to talk down to the series' young viewers. 'Kids tend to be desperately curious,' Teller said. 'There is a certain element we are doing in this that is making the analogy between the arts and a magic trick. When you think of something like perspective in a painting, it really is a magic trick.'\"\n"}
{"id": "39475189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39475189", "title": "Brian Safdari", "text": "Brian Safdari\n\nBrian Safdari is the founder and CEO of College Planning Experts, Inc. College Planning Experts is a consulting firm based in Valencia, California that advises high school students and their parents throughout the process of getting accepted to the college of their choice, maximizing financial aid, and paying for college. Safdari is known for his weekly radio shows, \"College Planning Secrets Exposed\" and \"Your College Planning Power Hour\", and for a variety of appearances on local and national television programs, including \"Good Day LA\". He is also the author of the self-published book, \"College Planning Made Easy\".\n\nBrian Safdari (born Abdullah Safdari) left Afghanistan with his family in the 1980s and arrived in the United States in 1986 at the age of 5, settling in the San Fernando Valley, California. In 1996, Safdari, then intent on a professional soccer career, joined the California state soccer team. In 1998, Safdari was one of three California players selected to play on the USA junior team for the 1998 World Cup in France.\nAfter returning from the World Cup in 1998, Safdari suffered a groin injury that ended his soccer career. Consequently, several anticipated athletics fellowships at top universities never materialized and Safdari was forced to take out loans to pay for college.\n\nBrian Safdari is a first-generation college student. He attended California State University Northridge (CSUN), and received his bachelor's degree from American InterContinental University where he majored in business administration.\n\nIn 2003, Safdari began his career in the real estate industry.\n\nIn 2004, he founded College Planning Experts, a consulting firm that provides college planning, financial aid services, and free workshops at locations throughout Los Angeles County, California. After graduating college with a significant amount of debt, Safdari was inspired to study the Higher Education Act and create College Planning Experts. \"He realized that by understanding the process - filling out financial aid forms properly, protecting assets, securing interest-free need loans, and searching for schools that granted endowment and institutional merit money - people could avoid the debt he incurred.\" College Planning Experts provides a variety of services, such as a \"best fit college search\", a financial overview, completion of FAFSA and CSS Profile, and unlimited telephone support.\n\nSafdari is a member of various organizations, including: National Institute of Certified College Planners, National Association for College Admission Counseling, National College Advocacy Group, Higher Education Consultants Association, and the Better Business Bureau. He worked with US Congressman Howard McKeon on the US Higher Education Act.\n\nSafdari frequently appears on television channels and in print, including CNN, Fox News, Bravo, and TLC, as well as local news programs. He is also a national speaker on topics such as career counseling, college acceptance, college funding and financial aid. College Planning Experts’ corporate clientele include Warner Bros., Nestle, and Morgan Stanley.\n\nIn his capacity as the founder and CEO of College Planning Experts, Safdari offers free community workshops and performs speaking engagements at high schools and public libraries. Safdari is a \"big supporter\" of The LEAP Foundation, which was co-founded by Dr. Bill Dorfman who is the celebrity dentist from the television show, \"Extreme Makeover\". The LEAP foundation is a non-profit foundation focusing on youth leadership and empowerment. Its LEAP summer leadership program hosts motivational speakers and celebrities that include Jessalyn Gilsig, Seth Green, and Nick Vujicic, as well as Safdari, who spoke to audiences about college planning and financing.\n"}
{"id": "3059649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3059649", "title": "C. H. v. Oliva", "text": "C. H. v. Oliva\n\nC. H. v. Oliva, 226 F.3d 198 (3d Cir. 2000), was a religious freedom case in which mother Carol Hood sued Grace Oliva, her son Zachary's first grade teacher, and related administrators in the Medford Township Public Schools for not allowing the child to read a section of the Bible in class. His kindergarten class had made Thanksgiving paintings the year prior, and his was taken down and subsequently reposted in a less noticeable place for its religious content. The poster was called \"I'm Thankful for Jesus.\" Carol Hood met with Principal Gail Pratt, who defended the school's decisions. She said that reading the story “was the equivalent of ‘praying’.” Noting that she had received complaints in the past, Ms. Pratt stated that the story “might upset Muslim, Hindu or Jewish students.” She added that there was “no place in the public school for the reading of the Bible” and advised: “ ‘[M]aybe you should consider taking your child out of public school, since you don't appear to be public school material.’ ” Ms. Pratt noted that “her position was fully supported by various legal authorities.”\n\nThe district court judge ruled that the teacher had exercised reasonable judgment in refusing to allow the book to be read in class. He agreed with the lower court that a first grader would not be able to distinguish between a student reading the Bible as constitutionally-protected free expression, and the teacher endorsing a religion by interrupting class to allow him to read it. Under the establishment clause, other students have a right to be free from religious endorsement by the government.\n\nSupreme Court Justice Samuel Alito, at the time an appeals court judge, agreed with the district court judge on the matter of the book. However, he dissented that the replacement of the poster inhibited Zachary's right to free expression.\n\nThe appeals court, sitting \"en banc\", split 6-6. The ruling defaulted to the district court, which had held against the Hoods.\n\n"}
{"id": "48030083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48030083", "title": "College-Industry Council on Material Handling Education", "text": "College-Industry Council on Material Handling Education\n\nThe College-Industry Council on Material Handling Education (CICMHE) is an academic/industry council of the Material Handling Industry (MHI) that promotes increased awareness of material handling and logistics through a variety of educational and research activities. CICMHE was founded in 1952 and has served to connect practitioners with academics that teach and do research in material handling.\n\nThe main body of the Council is composed of fifteen college and university educators that are elected to a four-year term and is governed by a four-member executive committee. Additional members are drawn from material handling equipment manufacturers, distributors, users and consultants, representatives of the business press, and professional staff members of organizations concerned with material handling education. CICMHE is organized into two working committees: \n\nCICMHE sponsors the following major activities for students, teachers, and researchers:\n\nIn order to give students a unique opportunity to see the latest material handling and logistics solutions in person, CICMHE has partnered with the Material Handling Equipment Distributors Association (MHEDA) to offer a special program for students and professors in engineering, technology, manufacturing, operations, supply chain and logistics at the MODEX and ProMat trade shows sponsored alternate years by MHI. Research has shown that \"Classroom Day, as a targeted experiential learning event, increased student appreciation, knowledge, and interest in the field of material handling and logistics.\"\n\nCICMHE sponsors a Material Handling Teachers Institute every two years for current and future faculty members who engage in material handling education in four year colleges and universities. MHTI 2017 will be held on the campus of Oregon State University in Corvallis, Oregon in July 2017. The Material Handling Teachers Institute has been traditionally held in the summer of odd-numbered years at the following locations:\n\nSince 1990, CICMHE has sponsored an International Material Handling Research Colloquium that provides a forum for academic researchers to both present their work and to interact with leading companies within the industry. The research presented at each Colloquium is documented as a volume in the series \"Progress in Material Handling Research\". Like the Material Handling Teachers Institute, the IMHRC Colloquium has been conducted on an every two-year cycle, with the Colloquium being offered in the summer of even-numbered years, alternating between locations in Europe and North America: \n\nSince 1994, CICMHE has co-sponsored, along with the Order Fulfillment Solutions (OFS) council of MHI, a team design competition for students interested in the design and analysis of material handling systems. Cash prizes of $2000, $1500, and $1000 are awarded to the first, second, and third place teams, plus $500 for each placing department.\n\nSince 1952, there have been over 160 academic members. Notable alumni include distinguished faculty and university administrators:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47844310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47844310", "title": "Collège des Frères de Jaffa", "text": "Collège des Frères de Jaffa\n\nCollège des Frères de Jaffa is a French international school in the Jaffa area of Tel Aviv. A part of the La Sallian educational institutions, it opened in 1882. Originally it was in the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem, Ottoman Empire, before being in the British Mandate of Palestine; currently it is in Israel.\n\nHosting one of six French international high school programmes in Israel, it serves levels \"maternelle\" (preschool) through \"terminale\" (final year of high school), with \"quatrième\" through \"terminale\" under the AEFE.\n\n"}
{"id": "14123790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14123790", "title": "Council for Interior Design Accreditation", "text": "Council for Interior Design Accreditation\n\nThe Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA) is an independent, non-profit accrediting organization for interior design education programs at colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. For more than 35 years, CIDA has pursued the enrichment of the interior design profession through identifying, developing and promoting quality standards for the education of entry-level interior designers, and then accrediting and supporting educational programs to aspire to those standards.\n\nThe Council for Interior Design Accreditation is recognized as a reliable authority on interior design education by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). The CHEA-recognized scope of accreditation is professional level programs in interior design. The Council engages nearly 200 volunteers, all drawn from interior design practice and education, to carry out its work. Nearly 150 interior design programs are currently accredited by the CIDA, serving an estimated 20,000 students.\n\n"}
{"id": "37396916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37396916", "title": "Dean of women", "text": "Dean of women\n\nThe dean of women at a college or university in the United States is the dean with responsibility for student affairs for female students. In early years, the position was also known by other names, including preceptress, lady principal, and adviser of women. \n\nDeans of women were widespread in American institutions of higher education from the 1890s to the 1960s, sometimes paired with a \"Dean of Men\", and usually reporting directly to the president of the institution. In the later 20th century, however, most Dean of Women positions were merged into the position of Dean of Students. \n\nThe Dean of Women position had its origins in the anxiety of the first generations of administrators of coeducational universities, who had themselves been educated in male-only schools, with the realities of coeducation. The earliest precursor was the position of matron, a woman charged with overseeing a female dormitory in the early years of coeducation in the 1870s and 1880s. As the numbers of women in higher education rose dramatically in the late 19th century, a more comprehensive administrative response was called for. The Deans of Women served both to maintain a protective separation between the male and female student populations, and to ensure that the academic offerings for women and academic work done by women were kept at a sufficiently high standard. \n\nIn the initial years, the responsibilities of the dean of women were not standardized, but in the early 20th century it quickly took on the trappings of a profession. The first professional conference of deans and advisers of women was held in 1903. In 1915, the first book dedicated to the profession was published, Lois Rosenberry's \"The Dean of Women\". In 1916, the National Association of Deans of Women was formed at Teachers College. By 1925, there were at least 302 deans of women at American colleges and universities.\n\nIn 1935, Lucy Diggs Slowe formed a separate organization for African-American deans of women, the Association of Deans of Women and Advisers to Girls in Negro Schools, prompted by NADW's habit of holding conferences in racially restricted hotels.\n\nThe trend toward the demotion and elimination of deans of women was first observed by Sarah Blanding in 1946, who noticed deans of women being subordinated to male administrators in charge of general student affairs. By 1962, only 30% of deans of women reported directly to the president of their institution, and by the 1970s the position itself had become rare.\n\nDeans of Women were usually women, although this was not always the case. The elimination of deanships of women in the later 20th century thus had the effect of reducing the number of women in administrative positions in higher education, as most of the deans of students who replaced them were male. In the late 1980s, less than 20% of deans of students were female.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5452570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5452570", "title": "Economics (textbook)", "text": "Economics (textbook)\n\nEconomics is an introductory textbook by American economists Paul Samuelson and William Nordhaus. It was first published in 1948, and has appeared in nineteen different editions, the most recent in 2009. It was the best selling economics textbook for many decades and still remains popular, selling over 300,000 copies of each edition from 1961 through 1976. The book has been translated into forty-one languages and in total has sold over four million copies.\n\n\"Economics\" was written entirely by Samuelson until the 1985 twelfth edition. Newer editions have been revised by Nordhaus.\n\n\"Economics\" has been called a \"canonical textbook\", and the development of mainstream economic thought has been traced by comparing the fourteen editions under Samuelson's editing.\n\n\"Economics\" coined the term \"neoclassical synthesis\" and popularized the concept, bringing a mix of neoclassical economics and Keynesian economics and helping make this the leading school in mainstream economics in the United States and globally in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nIt popularized the term \"paradox of thrift,\" and attributed the concept to Keynes, though Keynes himself attributed it to earlier authors, and forms of the concept date to antiquity.\n\nThe 1958 text introduced a \"family tree of economics\", which by the 20th century consisted of only two groupings, \"socialism,\" listing Marx and Lenin, and the \"neo-classical synthesis,\" listing Marshall and Keynes. This paralleled the then-extant Cold War economies of Soviet communism and American capitalism. This advanced a simplified view of the vying schools of economic thought, subsuming schools which considered themselves distinct, and today many within and without economics equate \"economics\" with \"neo-classical economics\", following Samuelson.\nLater editions provided expanded coverage of other schools, such as the Austrian school, Institutionalism, and Marxian economics.\n\n\"Economics\" was the second Keynesian textbook in the United States, following the 1947 \"The Elements of Economics,\" by Lorie Tarshis. Like Tarshis's work, \"Economics\" was attacked by American conservatives (as part of the Second Red Scare, or McCarthyism), universities that adopted it were subject to \"conservative business pressuring\", and Samuelson was accused of Communism. Nonetheless, \"Economics\" proved successful and remained widely adopted. The success of Samuelson's text, compared with Tarshis's, which was subject to more \"virulen[t]\" attacks, is attributed to various factors, notably Samuelson's dispassionate, scientific style, in contrast to Tarshis's more engaged style, and subsequent texts have followed Samuelson's style. Accusations by conservatives of communist sympathies in \"Economics\" continued into the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46194306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46194306", "title": "Edifi", "text": "Edifi\n\nEdifi, a name constructed from \"education\" and \"finance\", was a college financial aid services company located in Albany, New York, which operated nationally. Its legal name was CFAS (College Financial Aid Systems), LLC.\n\nEdifi was born at a time when the financial aid process was more difficult and opaque than it is today.\n\nEdifi was founded by Larry Schechter in 1991; he remained its sole owner throughout (with a hiatus in 2002-2004). It started in Wellesley, Massachusetts, but with Schechter's relocation to the Albany, New York area, it moved along with him, and operated first from a bare one-room office on Union Street in Schenectady. Growth led it to move in 2001 to an office suite located at 409 New Karner Road in an unincorporated area of Albany county (mailing address Albany); further growth led it to move in 2003 to a larger office suite at 450 New Karner Road, where it ran a call center, with five clocks - Eastern, Central, Mountain, Pacific, and Hawaii times - on the wall. When winding down operations it moved back to Union Street.\n\nThe company started when friends and neighbors of Schechter asked him for help in completing FAFSA forms. Sensing that money could be made, Schechter formed a company, which initially sold its services door-to-door. His primary collaborator and second-in-command, once the company had moved to Schenectady, was Maura Kastberg, who had a B.S. in mathematics. In order to grow the company, they decided to use a seminar method to make presentations to larger groups of people. This was very successful and the company had explosive growth; in the early 2000s it made the magazine Inc.'s list of the fastest-growing companies in the United States.\n\nEdifi originally priced its services at about $495, and offered a money-back guarantee, if it could not get the family enough additional financial aid to cover its fee. It abandoned the guarantee after having to pay out on some cases.\n\nEdifi was divided into five departments: Sales, Accounting, Reservations, which set up appointments for the seminars, Customer Service, which dealt with the clients and input data from client phone interviews and tax documents to the company's proprietary software (a customized \"front end\" for Microsoft Access), and Forms, which was in charge of completing financial aid forms, and whose new hires were tested for their printing ability.\n\nThe company's services were hard to understand and marketing was expensive. In fact, its greatest single expense was postage for marketing materials. John Braat, who had previous experience in a variety of sales and management positions, was Chief Operating Officer and head of the sales department. The company had three teams of commissioned salespeople, many of whom made more than the employees who actually did the work. Braat spent a lot of effort analyzing where seminars (sales meetings) would best be held. It did not market in states with no clear centers of population, such as Montana. For large cities like New York, all three sales teams would work together. The seminars were scheduled so as to avoid hurricane season in the South, and winter storms in the North. Flying the salespeople all around the country was another large expense.\n\nNames of prospects were purchased, from brokers who sold information on college prospects; most were students who had taken the College Board examinations. Edifi came up with the technique of sending invitations to students - rather than their probably more skeptical parents - to attend a free seminar where they could learn about opportunities for college grants and scholarships. The salespersons were not to lie to the families about what Edifi could do (although sometimes they apparently did). The original contracts were rewritten to say that Edifi had no special \"connections\" with college financial aid offices and did nothing that parents could not do for themselves, if they put in the time and effort.\n\nThe first service Edifi offered families was to give estimates of the financial aid a family could expect to receive from whatever colleges it chose, and what the \"bottom line\" for each of those colleges would be. Behind this was Edifi's ability to find or calculate the true cost of attendance for each college — since 2011 posted on each college's Web site, by Federal law, but before that often hard to locate, if the figure was public at all. (In those cases Edifi calculated an estimate.) This was intended to help families make good decisions, at least from a financial point of view, of where the child should go to college.\n\nWhen the student was a senior, Edifi completed the FAFSA, Profiles, state, and college need-based forms and made sure things were submitted at the best times. For example, the FAFSA should be submitted immediately after the applications open, estimating income rather than waiting months until taxes are done before applying. Edifi would submit a second, updating FAFSA once a family's taxes were completed.\n\nWhen financial aid offers were received, if copies of those were sent to Edifi, it would prepare a written analysis of the offer to make it understandable. (A minority of financial aid award letters were easy to understand, but many were cryptic or outright deceptive, presenting unsubsidized loans as if they were really financial aid.) It would also indicate, based on published information and its own previous experience with the colleges, whether the offer was or was not \"reasonable\". Many families did not know, and still do not know, that financial aid offers can be appealed. Edifi looked for reasons that an appeal could be filed: because the offer was not in line with the college's offer history (it was not \"reasonable\"), the family had high medical expenses, loss of income, high debt, and so on. Edifi would write appeal letters which the parents would sign and send to the college. Edifi would analyze the revised offer, if any, and sometimes filed a second appeal if the results of the first were unsatisfactory.\n\nSome clients clearly benefited from Edifi's services and expert advice, and there were a few spectacular successes. For example, a little-known fact that Edifi informed its clients about was that more expensive colleges could actually cost less, because these colleges often had so much financial aid to give out that it more than made up for the higher price. Some families, especially non-English-speaking ones, needed help with the financial aid process and forms. Edifi told the parents what they needed to do and when they needed to do it, and made sure, at least in theory, that things were done on time. However, a student who was going to a local community college, and whose high school would help with the paperwork, got little return on the parents' investment.\n\nBecause of the high cost of marketing in a seminar format, to ensure a reasonable return on investment, Edifi marketed its services on a \"package\" rather than a \"menu\" basis. One fixed price covered all the services and how many of them the family chose to use depended on which colleges the student applied to and the degree to which the family cooperated with Edifi, sending in needed documents like tax returns and financial aid offers. Not all did.\n\nAbout one-third of the clients thought that they had made a great decision contracting with Edifi, enrolled their younger children, and got their friends to sign up, thereby receiving a discount on renewals of their service for the students' sophomore and later years. Another third was not as enthusiastic, but felt that they had at least gotten what they paid for. The last third felt they had been ripped off.\n\nEdifi had to deal with a constant stream of charge-backs from credit card companies, complaints filed with Better Business Bureaus (which gave Edifi an \"F\" rating, because of its marketing), and whose investigations Edifi took seriously, investigations by attorneys general, angry high school guidance counselors who said they did everything Edifi did, but for free (which most do not), and the like. There was also many \"exposés\" in newspapers and on television, most of which mistakenly believed Edifi was a \"scholarship search\" service, which it was not. Under New York State law, a three-day (later, five-day) \"cooling-off period\" was required when a contract was made, during which time the contract could be canceled without penalty. After this period, Edifi rarely made refunds. Compounding the problem was when Edifi sold its services to undocumented immigrants who were ineligible for federal student aid and in most states, state student aid. Some parents did not know English and did not understand the contract they signed; however, under New York law the contract was still valid.\n\nThe department which interacted with the clients - interviewing them, gathering and processing their documents - was the Client Services Department. It was also this department that analyzed financial aid offers (arguably Edifi's most important service) and wrote appeals when appropriate. Translating the information gathered and input by Client Services into filled-out FAFSAs, CSS Profiles, and college financial aid forms was done by a different and much quieter department, Forms. As a quality control and check against errors, all completed work had to be proofed by a different employee.\n\nThe workers who actually did the work were primarily college students paid an hourly wage ($9.00 to $10.00 an hour in 2003). Turnover was high and morale was low. Many quit when they learned what Edifi did and what its reputation was. Katzberg was universally perceived as an abrasive, unsupportive manager; a former, angry employee described her online as \"Hitler in a ball gown\", and her and Braat as \"borderline con artists\". The company was uninterested in retaining experienced workers, who would have improved service but would have had to have been given raises.\nWhile it was not a deliberate policy (though it had the side effect of increasing the owner's profit), the company had difficulty retaining enough workers to service all its clients, and some clients did not receive the services they paid for. Other families did not use all, or any, of the services, ignoring or not noticing the notices (sometimes in the form of newsletters) Edifi sent through the mail. If the parents sent in documents as requested and called the company regularly to be sure their file was being processed, the company did as good a job as it could. Unfortunately, while documents should have been processed rapidly and without parent phone calls, this was not always the case, and cases in which nothing was done were not rare. One year hundreds of financial aid offers never got analyzed nor appeal letters written (unless parents called to inquire) because Client Services did not have the staff needed. The company did make a full refund to one pair of parents who pursued the matter, for whom nothing had been done as late as April of the student's senior year, although all necessary documents were in the student's file. Many families simply forgot about Edifi, amid everything going on in the senior year.\n\nEdifi did not have a philosophy of ripping people off, and complained bitterly and publicly that it was being unfairly lumped in with out-and-out scams, such as scholarship search services; it pointed out repeatedly that a sign of its good faith was that it did not guarantee any particular result. To the contrary, there was some pride in what was done (much or most of the time), in the many cases in which students were really helped.\n\nEdifi (Maura Kastberg and Larry Schechter) were constantly looking for additional services they could provide other than filling out the FAFSA and other financial aid forms. These included:\n\n\nThe reason behind the push for non-FAFSA services was in part for marketing purposes but also because so many students did not take the proper high school classes that would best prepare them, or were required, for college and result, in some cases, in greater financial aid eligibility.\n\nLarry Schechter had dreams of enlarging the company: by partnering with financial planners, for example. In 2002 Schechter sold the company to two investors who hoped to make money by reselling it to the Princeton Review. This sale never took place and the investors returned the company to Schechter's care.\n\nThe price of services went from $495 to $595, then to $795, $995, $1095, $1195, $1295, and $1595 over a 20 year period. Additional students in the same family were first $150, then $195, $295, and $495. In 2011 Edifi was faced with a national recession, increased air fares because of oil price increases, inability to raise prices further (price resistance), and the impracticality of automating an online application, as opposed to a paper FAFSA that came out of the computer printer in seconds. Maura Kastberg wanted to transfer FAFSA application data electronically, even before the FAFSA was put on line, but the Department of Education refused this.\n\nFaced with this situation, the company ceased selling new contracts, terminated most employees, moved back to Schenectady, and limited its activities to servicing contracts which had already been sold. As of 2015 it is out of business, and no longer has a Web site.\n"}
{"id": "22949698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22949698", "title": "Education Update", "text": "Education Update\n\nEducation Update is an American non-profit monthly newspaper, published in New York City. It focuses on issues related to education and has a circulation of approximately 100,000. \n\nThe publisher, retired education professor Pola Rosen, began the newspaper at age 54, delivering the paper door to door on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, New York City. \n\nThe publication was honored with the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce's Best New Business of the Year Award in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "18102841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102841", "title": "Education in the Czech Republic", "text": "Education in the Czech Republic\n\nEducation in the Czech Republic includes elementary school, secondary school, and post-secondary school. For students ages two to five, there are preschools that are generally not state-funded until the year before elementary school. After preschool, parents are not charged for tuition, but they must provide textbooks, stationery, and food for their children. A number of private schools exist across the country, but these schools are largely financially inaccessible for most children. There is an ongoing national discussion regarding the introduction of tuition fees for university education.\n\nElementary school is mandatory for children from ages six to fifteen. After that, some students leave formal education altogether, while other students attend a professional or vocational school. Enrolment in public schools is fairly high, though these figures do not document active student engagement. Attendance among Romani children is generally much lower than other Czech children due to their parents not sending them to school or not ability to speak in Czech language. \n\nCzech's education system is governed by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports and had a budget of €4.6 billion in 2016.\n\nElementary school () consists of nine grades grouped into two stages.\n\nThe first stage covers the first five years of formal education. Classes are taught by a single teacher, although there is sometimes a separate foreign language or physical education teacher. The subjects taught are Czech and include one foreign language (usually English), mathematics, computer science, history, geography, science, art, music, physical education, and handcrafts. There is usually a first stage school in every village; in small villages, several grades may be taught in one class.\n\nThe next four years of elementary school form the second stage, the last compulsory stage in education. Subjects taught at this stage include Czech, literature, two foreign languages, mathematics, computer science, history, geography, civics, physics, biology, chemistry, music, art, physical education, and handcrafts. Some of these subjects are only mandatory in grades eight and nine.\n\nStudents are either taught in the same elementary school as their first stage, at an eight-year academy ()\"),\" or at a six-year academy (). Continuing at an elementary school is the most popular option today, and six-year academies are quite rare. Some eight-year academies have a specific physical education emphasis, and some six-year academies have their later years almost entirely taught in a foreign language. Grade levels in the second stage are usually called by Latin numbers; year six is \"prima (the first\" in Latin), year seven is \"sekunda,\" and so on. \n\nSince the 2016/2017 school year, secondary schools that distribute a matura degree upon graduation are required to set an entrance test in mathematics and the Czech language. This test is run by CERMAT, the government agency that also administers the matura. Individual schools can also institute their own separate tests.\n\nVocational certificates are given after a two- or three-year course and a final exam, though there are different types of qualifications depending on the profession. There are also two-year vocational courses that do not offer a certificate. Some vocational schools offer an academic matura qualification in addition to the vocational certificate allowing progression to university. These schools last four years like any other school offering the matura, and the student must pass both sets of exams to graduate.\n\nA professional school lasts four years and awards a matura qualification. There is a large variety of industrial and technical skills covered including technical chemistry, electrical engineering, agriculture, internet technology, or business. A lyceum is a professional high school that teaches a more general curriculum; academic subjects like history and geography are taught more thoroughly than in an ordinary professional school. Types of lyceum include technical, pedagogical, medical, scientific, and military (operated in cooperation with the Ministry of Defense).\n\nGymnasium is either a continuation of an eight- and six-year academy or part of a four-year grammar school for elementary school graduates. Four-year grammar schools are either generally oriented or focus on physical education. The generally oriented gymnasium schools can decide on a specialization. The subjects are the same as in elementary schools but are obligatory only in grade ten and eleven (mathematics also in grade twelve, Czech and two foreign languages until grade thirteen). Schools can make these subjects obligatory in the two last years of school, or the students can have more elective subjects than the legally required minimum. Gymnasium graduates have no qualification; the aim of this type of school is a preparation for university studies.\n\nMaturita is the name of the universal leaving qualification of four-year secondary schools and is a requirement for university studies and higher professional schools. It is made up of a number of subjects. Every student must take Czech language and world literature, consisting of a reading and grammar exam, a writing exam, and a literature oral exam. The second subject must be either mathematics or a foreign language (English, German, French, Spanish or Russian, including writing, reading, speaking and listening, to B1 level of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages). The exams for these mandatory subjects are standardized and set by CERMAT. The other two or three exams taken by the student at this time are dictated by the school.\n\nSpecial schools for developmentally disabled children unable to participate in mainstream elementary education were once common in the Czech Republic. The subjects taught were very limited, meaning that leavers were logistically unable to continue on to all types of secondary education. A student required a reference from an educational psychologist and the agreement of parents to enroll in a special school. However, many children of Romani heritage were made to study at these schools despite lack of disability; due to institutional and social discrimination, Romani students often failed to meet academic standards and were segregated from mainstream public schools. This system was criticized by European Court of Human Rights in 2007. Special schools were replaced by elementary and practical schools, though the problem of the over-representation of Romani pupils continues. There are elementary practical schools usually taught in the same institution. These teach the equivalent of the first and second stages and one- to two-year secondary courses after the age of fifteen. The education is mainly practical to teach students to be self-sufficient. Meanwhile, \"integrated education\" of under-performing or mentally handicapped children in ordinary schools with the support of a special teacher is becoming more common.\n\nOn April 7, 1348, Charles IV founded the first university in Central Europe. The second university in present-day Czech Republic was established in 1576 (see Palacký University, Olomouc) in an effort to counter weigh the influence of Protestants, who controlled the Prague University and who constituted about 90% of country's population. After the Czechoslovak state was established, a number of other universities were founded, such as Masaryk University-- the second largest university in the Czech Republic.\n\nHigher professional schools (\"vyšší odborná škola, VOŠ\") offer professional tertiary education and are usually connected with professional high schools. Before their graduation, students must take final exams (\"absolutorium\") and write a final thesis. Graduates are entitled to use the honorific \"DiS\" (\"diplomovaný specialista\", specialist with diploma) after their name.\n\nHigher education in the Czech Republic consists of public and private universities, as well as state-run police and military training academies. Czech-language study at public universities is unlimited and free for first-time attendants; however after the age of 26, the attendant will not receive student status from social services and the individual's health insurance will not be state-funded. Czech public universities also host international students, who have the choice of free instruction in Czech or paid instruction in English.\n\nFor private universities, annual tuition is between 2,000 and 3,000 euro and for BSBA and MBA (not accredited by Ministry of Education) study programs cost between 3,000 and 10,000 euro. The perceived quality of education at public universities is higher than private institutions, as private universities have undergone many scandals in recent years.\n\nUniversity education takes from 2 to 6 years, depending on the degree of studies:\nThese titles are granted after a special exam (\"rigorózní zkouška\"), which contains a thesis presentation. A master's degree is required to write this exam. This a non-comprehensive list titles given to those with doctorate degrees: \nFormerly, also other titles were used:\n\nThe school year starts on the first weekday of September and ends on the last weekday of June. It is divided into two semesters with exams at the end of each. Usually, the first semester runs from 1st September to January 30th, and the second from February 1st to June 30th, separated by a one-day break and the summer holidays. The actual dates, along with holidays and breaks, are announced by each school individually and may vary slightly.\n\n\nThere is also Children's Day on 1 June, which is not considered a holiday, but children are usually taken on (school) trips (one day or more) and other cultural activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26145948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26145948", "title": "Emmi Pikler", "text": "Emmi Pikler\n\nEmmi Pikler (born 9 January 1902 in Vienna; died 6 June 1984 in Budapest, birth name Emilie Madleine Reich) was a Hungarian pediatrician who introduced new theories of infant education, and put them into practice at an orphanage she ran.\n\nEmmi Pikler was born in 1902 and spent her early childhood in Vienna. She was the only child of a Viennese kindergarten teacher and a Hungarian craftsman. In 1908 her parents moved to Budapest. When Pikler was 12 years old, her mother died.\n\nShe returned to Vienna to study Medicine, where she received her medical degree in 1927. She received her pediatric training at the Vienna University Children's Hospital by Clemens von Pirquet and studied pediatric surgery by Hans Salzer.\n\nPikler's third teacher was her own husband, a mathematician and educator through whose experiences she was confirmed in its development physiological considerations. They decided together, at the birth of her first child, to allow the child freedom of movement and to await her development patiently. At first they lived in Trieste and later in Budapest. In 1935 Pikler qualified as a pediatrician in Hungary. Their goal was to promote the healthy development of the child. From the experience with her daughter, she knew that a child must not be stimulated to movement and to games and that every detail in dealing with the child and their environment is important. Pikler wrote and gave lectures about the care and upbringing of infants and young children. She published her first book for parents in 1940 and it went through several editions in Hungary and other countries. The ten years that she worked as a family doctor were difficult for them not only because the family was Jewish, but also because her husband was in prison for political reasons from 1936 to 1945. With the help of the parents of the children she cared for, she and her family survived the persecution of Jews during World War II.\n\nAfter the war she gave birth to two more children. She did not open her private practice again, but worked for a national association for abandoned and malnourished children. In addition to other activities, she founded the Lóczy orphanage (named after the street where it was located) in 1946, which she headed until 1979. She sought to establish a comforting atmosphere, including careful selection of the staff, to allow children at the orphanage to grow up without the usual institutional damage.\n\nElsa Gindler and Henry Jacoby found in the 1920s that it was essential to understand the natural path of child development in order to allow the child's initial skills and powers to develop. Gindler and Jacoby explained that traditional infant and early childhood education damaged the initiative of children and stunted their development.\n\nIn 1946 Pikler founded the Lóczy Institute in Budapest. Under her leadership, and by the publication of books and scientific publications, an internationally known institution developed that is now managed by Pikler's daughter, child psychologist Anna Tardos. After Pikler retired in 1978, she continued her scientific and consultative work in Lóczy. In the last years of her life she received in Hungary and other countries. In 1984 Pikler died after a short but severe illness.\n\nPikler's methods of raising infants and young children have been popularized in the United States by her student Magda Gerber.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13328107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13328107", "title": "Ereport", "text": "Ereport\n\ne-Report - \"transnational virtual study circles: e-learning supports for tutorship and learning groups\" - is a communitarian project (funded by European Community - Leonardo da Vinci Program (EAC/11/04), 2005 – Procedure C) aiming at the constitution of a repertory of reference material with regard to the development of innovative methods in the field of e-learning system for educational projects and also for distance learning in VET. The activities of research, experimentation and analysis are combined with the use of ICT with massive use of tutoring activities, learning groups and transnational virtual study circles.\n\nThe network of the project is composed by:\n\ne-Report is generally aimed at setting up a communitarian repertory of reference material with regard to the development of innovative methods in the field of e-learning system for distance learning in VET. It refers to activities of research, experimentation and analysis with regard to the development of innovative methods and contents in the field of e-learning, aiming at setting up a method of distance learning system, combining the use of ICT with tutoring activities, learning groups and transnational virtual study circles.\nThe specific goals of the project are:\n\nFour work-packages are contributing to the achievement of the project goals.\n\nWork-package 1 (\"WP1 - context analysis\") is aimed at comparing and studying the developmental trends of online courses in the national VET systems of the partners, a preliminary study will be conducted. From the results of this study, the main needs of the national VET systems will be identified and compared between four European countries.\nIn order to accomplish these goals two main actions will be carried out.\nAction 1: to assess the quantitative/qualitative features of the online courses provided by universities and vocational institutes (OB1) through an on-line questionnaire that will be administered to a sample of 60 universities and vocational centers (see table 1). Three kind of questionnaires (6 forms) have been developed:\nThe questionnaires will be administered to a sample of 150 responsible and teachers/trainers and of 300 students belonging to the countries of the project (see table 2 and 3).\nAction 2: to identify the main needs of the students attending Us and VCs with regard to the field of e-learning. A questionnaire will be developed, aimed at assessing: (a) their needs (e.g., enhancement of the use of ICT in their training or the improvement of occasions of virtual mobility), (b) their interests (e. g., the kind of courses they want to be enhanced); (c) their attitudes towards the use of ICT; (d) the influence of the lack of computer-based competencies (e.g. can’t be able to use PC) on attitude towards on-line courses. \nThe questionnaire will be administered online and by post to a sample of 320 students selected from the sample of universities and vocational school indicated above, 80 students for each country (50 of universities, 30 of vocational schools) and will be composed in the same ratio of: students who never attended an online course (160) and students who attended an online course at least one time (160). \nFinally, phone interviews with administrators, experts, teachers and trainers (n=52) will be performed, aimed at recognizing some indicators of the need of enhancing the online courses supply of each country.\n\n\"Table 1. Composition of the sample of universities/vocational schools\"\n\"Table 2. Composition of the sample of the trainers, teachers, experts, administrators\"\n\"Table 3. Composition of the sample of the students of universities/vocational schools\"\nWork-package 2 (\"WP2 - production of guidance and educational tools\") is aimed at producing educational, guidance and training materials in digital format, suitable for the distance learning via the Internet and combining methodologies such as e-tutoring, peer-tutoring, learning groups and transnational virtual study circles. This set of materials (4 videos and 10 online courses) will be produced on the basis of the international exchange and the dissemination of good practices for the development of methods and tools in the field of distance learning.\nThe video will be 20 minutes long and will introduce the University’ e-learning and Erasmus project offers. It will be divided in chapter and will be available through the Internet, using the webTV streaming television channel, developed by the University of Palermo, but also on DVD to be suitable for students in home players. The on-line streaming version of the video will be made available using Open Source file format to improve quality and shareability of the content itself.\nEach University will produce two courses, built around the e-learning concept, to be used on a LMS platform stressing on two main educational aspects:\nOn the basis of what agreed by each partner, tutoring will be the key factor of each e-learning action developed during the project.\nThe University of Palermo has released a specialized version of its own LMS, named Tutorfad (based on the Moodle LMS), to let the E-report group has its own development and exchange platform and to test the courses developed during the project.\n\nWork-package 3 (\"WP3 - testing and evaluation\"), the shared repertory of guidance and educational materials and methods will be tested with a sample of teachers and students through the use of the LMS (based on Moodle). Furthermore, the transferability of the repertory to the field of vocational training will be experienced.\nIn order to accomplish these goals two main actions will be carried out.\n\nWork-package 4 (\"Valorisation Plan\"). The project foresees a valorization plan during its entire life, composed by different activities of exploitation and dissemination of intermediate and final results. \nAs regards Exploitation the following actions will be carried out: administration of questionnaires and evaluation schedules; analysis of the needs of the students, trainers/teachers, administrators (see WP1); realization of forum groups among teachers, experts and tutors; realization of forum groups among students; testing of the project’s repertory, the evaluation and the monitoring of the training methods in U & VT; realization of focus groups with the end users; stakeholders involvement and consultation.\nAs regards Dissemination: Reports (local, national and transnational); Participation to conferences (local, national and international); Transnational meetings in each nation of the partnership; Web sites; Scientific publications (national and transnational), such as monograph, publications in reviews and journals; the realisation of guidance activities (e.g., guidance videos; guidance centre in the platform), aimed at promoting the project’s output too; the realisation of a biannual e-newsletter in English language (published in the web-site); The distribution of CD/DVDs (1 CD/DVD aimed at presenting the project, in English and in the partners languages; 4 guidance CD/DVDs aimed at presenting the online courses and international exchange programs of U).\n\n"}
{"id": "40634117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40634117", "title": "Eugénie Luce", "text": "Eugénie Luce\n\nEugénie Luce (1804-1882) was a French educator, who she founded the first French/Arab school for Muslim girls the Luce Ben Aben School in Algiers in 1845.\n\nEugénie Luce moved to Algiers in the 1830s, where she became a governess. She left behind her husband and family in France.\n\nEugénie Luce started the Luce Ben Aben School, in 1845. It was the first Franco-Arab school for Muslim girls, dispensing a European-style education. Girls learned French,Arabic, arithmetic, embroidery, geography and sewing. The school was funded by the French Algeria government until 1861, after which it became a trade school. They taught embroidery and other subjects in order to educate the girls in traditional Algerian crafts, at a time when these crafts were being replaced by machine-made imports. These goods were exported throughout Algeria, as well as Europe and the United States.\n\nThe school was forced to close on 1 January 1846 because of lack of financial support from the local French government.\nEugénie went to Paris to ask for help from the central government, after having managed to get support for school, it was reopened in June 1846. In January 1847 the French government formally agreed to support the school.\n\nIn 1858 she had over 120 pupils of different age groups. This school produced skilled embroideresses, who appeared in the London Exhibition of 1862, in the Algerian Pavilion of the 1893 World's Columbian Exhibition at Chicago.\n\nThe school continued under Madame Luce's daughter and later her granddaughter, Madame Luce Ben-Aben.\n\nLuce would eventually return to Montrichard, in France, where she died in 1882. After Luce died, her granddaughter Madame Ben-Aben continued to run the school until her own death in 1915.\n\n"}
{"id": "8128856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128856", "title": "Eye movement in reading", "text": "Eye movement in reading\n\nEye movement in reading involves the visual processing of written text. This was described by the French ophthalmologist Louis Émile Javal in the late 19th century. He reported that eyes do not move continuously along a line of text, but make short, rapid movements (saccades) intermingled with short stops (fixations). Javal's observations were characterised by a reliance on naked-eye observation of eye movement in the absence of technology. From the late 19th to the mid-20th century, investigators used early tracking technologies to assist their observation, in a research climate that emphasised the measurement of human behaviour and skill for educational ends. Most basic knowledge about eye movement was obtained during this period. Since the mid-20th century, there have been three major changes: the development of non-invasive eye-movement tracking equipment; the introduction of computer technology to enhance the power of this equipment to pick up, record, and process the huge volume of data that eye movement generates; and the emergence of cognitive psychology as a theoretical and methodological framework within which reading processes are examined. Sereno & Rayner (2003) believed that the best current approach to discover immediate signs of word recognition is through recordings of eye movement and event-related potential.\n\nUntil the second half of the 19th century, researchers had at their disposal three methods of investigating eye movement. The first, unaided observation, yielded only small amounts of data that would be considered unreliable by today's scientific standards. This lack of reliability arises from the fact that eye movement occurs frequently, rapidly, and over small angles, to the extent that it is impossible for an experimenter to perceive and record the data fully and accurately without technological assistance. The other method was self-observation, now considered to be of doubtful status in a scientific context. Despite this, some knowledge appears to have been produced from introspection and naked-eye observation. For example, Ibn al Haytham, a medical man in 11th-century Egypt, is reported to have written of reading in terms of a series of quick movements and to have realised that readers use peripheral as well as central vision.\n\nLeonardo da Vinci (1452–1519) may have been the first in Europe to recognize certain special optical qualities of the eye. He derived his insights partly through introspection but mainly through a process that could be described as optical modelling. Based on dissection of the human eye he made experiments with water-filled crystal balls. He wrote \"The function of the human eye, ... was described by a large number of authors in a certain way. But I found it to be completely different.\"\n\nHis main experimental finding was that there is only a distinct and clear vision at the \"line-of-sight\", the optical line that ends at the fovea. Although he did not use these words literally he actually is the father of the modern distinction between foveal vision (a more precise term for central vision) and peripheral vision. However, Leonardo did not know that the retina is the sensible layer, he still believed that the lens is the organ of vision.\n\nThere appear to be no records of eye movement research until the early 19th century. At first, the chief concern was to describe the eye as a physiological and mechanical moving object, the most serious attempt being Hermann von Helmholtz's major work \"Handbook of physiological optics\" (1866). The physiological approach was gradually superseded by interest in the psychological aspects of visual input, in eye movement as a functional component of visual tasks.\n\nThe subsequent decades saw more elaborate attempts to interpret eye movement, including a claim that meaningful text requires fewer fixations to read than random strings of letters. In 1879, the French ophthalmologist Louis Émile Javal used a mirror on one side of a page to observe eye movement in silent reading, and found that it involves a succession of discontinuous individual movements for which he coined the term saccades. In 1898, Erdmann & Dodge used a hand-mirror to estimate average fixation duration and saccade length with surprising accuracy.\n\nEye tracking device is a tool created to help measure eye and head movements. The first devices for tracking eye movement took two main forms: those that relied on a mechanical connection between participant and recording instrument, and those in which light or some other form of electromagnetic energy was directed at the participant's eyes and its reflection measured and recorded. In 1883, Lamare was the first to use a mechanical connection, by placing a blunt needle on the participant's upper eyelid. The needle picked up the sound produced by each saccade and transmitted it as a faint clicking to the experimenter's ear through an amplifying membrane and a rubber tube. The rationale behind this device was that saccades are easier to perceive and register aurally than visually. In 1889, Edmund B. Delabarre invented a system of recording eye movement directly onto a rotating drum by means of a stylus with a direct mechanical connection to the cornea. Other devices involving physical contact with the surface of the eyes were developed and used from the end of the 19th century until the late 1920s; these included such items as rubber balloons and eye caps.\n\nMechanical systems suffered three serious disadvantages: questionable accuracy due to slippage of the physical connection, the considerable discomfort caused to participants by the direct mechanical connection (and consequently great difficulty in persuading people to participate), and issues of ecological validity, since participants' experience of reading in trials was significantly different from the normal reading experience. Despite these drawbacks, mechanical devices were used in eye movement research well into the 20th century.\n\nAttempts were soon made to overcome these problems. One solution was to use electromagnetic energy rather than a mechanical connection. In the \"Dodge technique\", a beam of light was directed at the cornea, focused by a system of lenses and then recorded on a moveable photographic plate. Erdmann & Dodge used this technique to claim that there is little or no perception during saccades, a finding that was later confirmed by Utall & Smith using more sophisticated equipment. The photographic plate in the Dodge technique was soon replaced with a film camera, but was still plagued by problems of accuracy, due to the difficulty of keeping all parts of the equipment perfectly aligned throughout a trial and accurately compensating for the distortion caused by the diffractive qualities of photographic lenses. In addition, it was usually necessary to restrain a participant's head by using an uncomfortable bite-bar or head-clamp.\n\nIn 1922, Schott pioneered a further advance called electro-oculography (EOG), a method of recording the electrical potential between the cornea and the retina. Electrodes may be covered with special contact paste before being placed on the skin. So, it is now unnecessary to make incisions in patient's skin. Common misconception about EOG is that measured potential is the electromyogram of extraocular muscles. In fact, it is only the projection of eye dipole to the skin, because higher frequencies, corresponding to EMG, are filtered out. EOG delivered considerable improvements in accuracy and reliability, which explain its continued use by experimentalists for many decades.\n\nFour major cognitive systems are involved in eye movement during reading: language processing, attention, vision, and oculomotor control. Eye trackers bounce near infrared light off the interior of the eyeball, and monitor the reflection on the eye to determine gaze location. With this technique, the position of a fixation on a screen can be precisely determined. Wang (2011) mentioned that a video-based eye-tracker which uses video cameras to record the eye position of human subjects—recording pupil dilation and eye movement—can be used to examine how fixations, saccades, and pupil dilation responses are related to the information on the screen and behavioral choices. According to Wang (2011:185), \"understanding the relationship between these observables can help us to understand how human behavior in the economy can be affected by what information people acquire, where their attention is focused, what emotional state they are in, and even what brain activity they are engaged in. This is because fixations and saccades (matched with information shown on screen) indicate how people acquire information (and what they see), time lengths of fixations indicate attention, and pupil dilation responses indicate emotion, arousal, stress, pain, or cognitive load.\" \n\nSkilled readers move their eyes during reading on the average of every quarter of a second. During the time that the eye is fixated, new information is brought into the processing system. Although the average fixation duration is 200–250 ms (thousandths of a second), the range is from 100 ms to over 500 ms. The distance the eye moves in each saccade (or short rapid movement) is between 1 and 20 characters with the average being 7–9 characters. The saccade lasts for 20–40 ms and during this time vision is suppressed so that no new information is acquired. There is considerable variability in fixations (the point at which a saccade jumps to) and saccades between readers and even for the same person reading a single passage of text. Skilled readers make regressions back to material already read about 15 percent of the time. The main difference between faster and slower readers is that the latter group consistently shows longer average fixation durations, shorter saccades, and more regressions. These basic facts about eye movement have been known for almost a hundred years, but only recently have researchers begun to look at eye movement behavior as a reflection of cognitive processing during reading.\nThe lower line of text simulates the acuity of vision with the relative acuity percentages. The difficulty of recognizing text increases with the distance from the fixation point.\n\nPeople with dyslexia generally suffer from a decreased reading speed, which can be caused by many different variables. There are many remedies to try and combat these deficits, depending on what biological theory of dyslexia they are based on. One such idea is based on magnocellular deficit, where magnocellular pathways are uncoordinated, causing the skipping or re-reading of lines.\n\nCompetition–interaction theory and SERIF emphasise low level oculomotor processes in reading such as how the word length of the currently fixated word and its neighbour words affect saccade amplitude and latency (or fixation duration). Reader, EMMA, E-Z Reader and SWIFT emphasise higher level cognitive processes such as lexical processing, word frequency, word parsing or word predictability.\n\n"}
{"id": "45316306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45316306", "title": "Framework for authentic intellectual work", "text": "Framework for authentic intellectual work\n\nThe Framework for Authentic Intellectual Work (AIW) is an evaluative tool used by educators of all subjects at the elementary and secondary levels to assess the quality of classroom instruction, assignments, and student work. The framework was founded by Dr. Dana L. Carmichael, Dr. M. Bruce King, and Dr. Fred M. Newmann. The purpose of the framework is to promote student production of genuine and rigorous work that resembles the complex work of adults. Consequently, the framework identifies three main criteria for student learning (construction of knowledge, disciplined inquiry, and value beyond school), and provides standards accompanied by scaled rubrics for classroom instruction, assignments, and student work. The standards and rubrics are meant to support teachers in the promotion of genuine and rigorous work, as well as guide professional development and collaboration.\n\nAuthentic intellectual work refers to the complex work adults do to make informed decisions and accomplish tasks. It involves original application of knowledge and skills, rather than simply routine use of facts and procedures. Therefore, for students, authentic intellectual work results in a product or presentation that has meaning or value beyond the classroom.\n\nFor many students, the work they perform in schools entails memorization of facts and algorithms, and can fail to relate to the work they will need to do as an adult. The disconnect between the material studied at school and the skills needed to perform well in one’s work, personal, or civic life can make school work seem meaningless or worthless. Learning tasks call for specific memorized information, retrieval of given information, or application of routine computational procedures, but rarely do they call for higher-level thinking, interpretation, or in-depth conceptual understanding. Schoolwork is regarded largely as a series of contrived exercises necessary to earn credentials (grades, promotions) required for future success, but for many, especially poor students of color, this work leads to disengagement and dropping out. However, most jobs, personal matters and civic actions require problem-solving skills, in-depth understanding of problems and specific skills, and the ability to communicate in a variety of forms.\n\nThe framework aims to prepare students for the intellectual challenges of work, civic participation, and life by maximizing expectations for intellectual rigor for all students, encouraging in-depth understanding of content, and increasing student interest in academic work. This is made evident through its three main criteria for student learning: construction of knowledge, disciplined inquiry, and value beyond school.\n\nThe construction of knowledge refers to solving problems by organizing, interpreting, evaluating or synthesizing prior knowledge. Disciplined inquiry involves gathering a knowledge base of relevant vocabulary, facts, concepts, algorithms, theories, and basic skills, gaining developing a deeper understanding by identifying, proposing, and testing relationships among key fact, events, concepts, rules, and claims. Finally, value beyond school acknowledges the necessity for students to present their knowledge in a variety of complex forms of communication to resemble real life work. To meet this criteria students use verbal, symbolic, graphic, and visual tools to explain, narrate, justify, and converse about a topic. The more each of these criteria, construction of knowledge, disciplined inquiry, and value beyond school, are met, the more “authentic” the work of the student.\n\nFrom 1990-2003 researchers completed studies at Wisconsin Center for Education Research at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the University of Minnesota, and the Consortium on Chicago School Research. The scoring rubrics described above were used to assess the quality of student work in (list demographics). Students who received higher levels of instruction and assessment showed higher achievement, both on direct assessments of authentic intellectual performance and on traditional standardized tests. Results were positive and consistent in grades 3-12 across different subject areas regardless of students’ race, gender, or socioeconomic status.\n\nTheir research was performed in response to their belief in a lack of rigor and relevance in educational reforms that encouraged the teaching of basic skills and ability to recall knowledge. Researchers believed low expectations existed for intellectual challenge, especially for students from typically disadvantaged backgrounds, along with a lack of student engagement, and an emphasis on breadth of knowledge rather than mastery.\n\nResearchers argued that since cognitively integrated knowledge is more likely to be internalized and retained by students, it is more likely to be remembered and correctly applied on standardized tests than knowledge memorized as discrete items only for the purpose of repeating it when called upon. (27) Since demands for authentic intellectual work pose questions of interest to students in their lives beyond school, students are more likely to care about both the questions they study and the answers they learn. Thus, such assignments enhance a student’s willingness to put forth serious effort in learning the material, as compared to exercises that have no personal meaning beyond completing an assignment to please the teacher or to attain a promotion. In sum, assignments that demand more authentic intellectual work elicit intensive thinking about and a deeper engagement in varied applications of words, concepts, and ideas. This can help students to internalize understandings as their own, and to use this knowledge to respond to items on conventional tests that may not have been explicitly covered in class.\n\nThe framework provides standards for classroom instruction, assignments, and student work based on the three criteria for authentic intellectual work (construction of knowledge, disciplined inquiry, and value beyond school). Each standard is accompanied by a scoring rubric for evaluating a teacher’s promotion of authentic intellectual work for their students in the classroom. Standardized rubrics provide teachers with a common language and vision for learning, can help teachers reflect on the practice, and become useful tools for professional development and collaboration. While the rubrics are meant to guide instruction to help teachers improve the authentic intellectual quality of student learning, they are not meant to be used as a comprehensive evaluative tool. They do not concern other aspects of teaching that may be valuable to schools.\n\nStudents are required students to manipulate information and ideas in ways that transform their meaning and implication. This occurs when students combine facts and ideas in order to synthesize, generalize, explain, hypothesize, or arrive at some conclusion or interpretation.\n\nKnowledge is deep when, instead of trying to learn or expressing only fragmented pieces of information, students encounter and express details, distinctions, nuances, and different applications of central concepts aimed toward integrated or holistic understandings.\n\nStudents engage in extended conversational exchanges with the teacher and/or their peers about subject matter in a way that builds an improved and shared understanding of ideas or topics.\n\nSubstantive conversation has three features: \nNewman, Carmichael, and King (2007) identify a \"sustained conversation\" as having at least three consecutive interchanges between participants. The interchanges need not be between the same two people, but they must be linked substantively as consecutive responses.\n\nStudents make connections between substantive knowledge and public problems or personal experiences they are likely to have faced or will face in the future. \nAccording to Newmann, Carmichael, and King (2007) lessons can have value for students school success by:\n\nThe assignment asks students to organize and interpret information in addressing a concept, problem, or issue relevant to the discipline.\n\nThe assignment asks students to elaborate on their understanding, explanations, or conclusions through extended writing in the relevant discipline.\nThe assignment asks students to address a concept, problem, or issue in the relevant discipline that is similar to one that they have encountered or are likely to encounter in their daily lives outside of school.\n\nIt is not as possible to tell whether student performance will have value beyond school. Therefore, the rubrics and standards for student work only reflect the first two criteria, construction of knowledge and disciplined inquiry.\n\nStudent performance demonstrates thinking about disciplinary content through organizing, synthesizing, interpreting, hypothesizing, describing patterns, making models or simulations, constructing arguments, or considering alternative points of view.\n\nStudent performance demonstrates understanding of important disciplinary concepts central to the assignment.\n\nStudent performance demonstrates an elaboration of his or her understanding or explanations of disciplinary concepts through extended writing.\n\nStudent performance demonstrates an elaborated, coherent account that draws conclusions or makes generalizations or arguments and supports them with examples, summaries, illustrations, details, or reasons.\n\nAccording to a study performed by Dr. Liz Winstien for the Iowa Department of Education on the initial findings of the implementation of AIW in Iowa school districts, a major challenge for using the framework is the amount of time it requires for teacher training on the rubrics and foundational principles of the framework. Also, the framework is meant to be a collaborative tool that teachers use to give and receive feedback on their instruction and student work. This can be an uncomfortable experience for some teachers. It may take time for teachers to become accustomed to sustaining a focused dialogue that critiques teacher instruction and student work. The study also noted that the framework may be more useful in certain academic disciples. For example, an Iowa Math teacher commented that math students have many fundamental skills to learn first, and incorporating elaborated conversation is less natural for the math-learning environment. An Art teacher had similar feelings. Additionally, administrators mentioned AIW doesn’t have a substantial amount of research behind it that supports its positive effects on students learning, which makes it more challenging to convince schools boards to fund its implementation. Finally, administrators also commented on the challenge they face keeping teachers motivated to continue having worthwhile dialogue centered around the rubrics once they become accustomed to the framework and the feedback sessions become routine.\n\n"}
{"id": "44102522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102522", "title": "G. Michael Pressley", "text": "G. Michael Pressley\n\nGeorge Michael Pressley (April 25, 1951 – May 22, 2006) was an American educational psychologist. He received the E. L. Thorndike Award in 2004.\n\nHe was born on April 25, 1951, in Sewickley, Pennsylvania. He graduated from Northwestern University in 1973 and received his Ph.D. from University of Minnesota in 1977.\n\nHe was a senior author of the Open Court Reading program.\n\nHe published more than 350 articles and books. He had served as the editor of \"Scientific Studies in Reading\" and \"Journal of Educational Psychology\". Pressley died in May 2006 at the age of 55 from cancer, having previously overcome three battles with the disease in his life.\n"}
{"id": "19507420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19507420", "title": "GCE Ordinary Level in Sri Lanka", "text": "GCE Ordinary Level in Sri Lanka\n\nThe Sri Lankan Ordinary Level (O-level) is a General Certificate of Education (GCE) qualification in Sri Lanka, conducted by the Department of Examinations of the Ministry of Education. It is based on the Cambridge University Ordinary Level qualification. An O-level is a qualification of its own right, but more often taken in prerequisite for the more in-depth and academically rigorous Advanced Level exams. It is usually taken by students during the final two years of Senior secondary school (Grade 10 & 11 (usually ages 15–16)) or external (non-school) candidate. The exams are held in three mediums Sinhala, Tamil and English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45655651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45655651", "title": "Graham technique", "text": "Graham technique\n\nGraham technique is a modern dance movement style and pedagogy created by American dancer and choreographer Martha Graham (1894–1991). Graham technique has been called the \"cornerstone\" of American modern dance, and has been taught worldwide. It is widely regarded as the first codified modern dance technique, and strongly influenced the later techniques of Merce Cunningham, Lester Horton, and Paul Taylor.\n\nGraham technique is based on the opposition between contraction and release, a concept based on the breathing cycle which has become a \"trademark\" of modern dance forms. Its other dominant principle is the \"spiraling\" of the torso around the axis of the spine. Graham technique is known for its unique dramatic and expressive qualities and distinctive floorwork; dance critic Anna Kisselgoff described it as \"powerful, dynamic, jagged and filled with tension.\"\n\nThe phrase \"Graham technique\" was registered as a trademark before Graham's death, and was the subject of a trademark dispute in the early 2000s.\n\nGraham technique is based on \"contraction and release\", and uses different parts of the body in opposition to one another to create spirals for dramatic tension. It also incorporates formal exaggerations of \"natural\" movements.\n\nThe fundamental movement of Graham technique is the cycle between \"contraction\" and subsequent \"release\", which developed as a stylized representation of breathing. Along with the \"fall and recovery\" dualism of Doris Humphrey's technique, it is one of the most important concepts in early modern dance.\nA classic Graham contraction is a movement originating from the deep pelvic muscles. These muscles, along with the abdominal muscles, pull the spine into a concave arc from the coccyx to the nape of the neck, with the pelvis tucked and shoulders forward. The spine grows longer, not shorter, in a contraction. The force of the contraction can be used to move the body through space or change its trajectory. The release may be considered a relatively passive return to a \"normal\" state, or alternatively an equally active outward propulsion of energy. The contraction is associated with the exhale, and the release with the inhale, although this connection may be merely conceptual.\n\nThe indexical meaning of the contraction in Graham's choreography is generally that the dancer is overcome with emotion, although the details depend on the specific context.\n\nGraham's decision to make movement originate from the core rather than distally echoes the style of Isadora Duncan, but Duncan wrote in her autobiography that movement originates in the solar plexus rather than the low abdomen. \n\nThe second fundamental concept in Graham technique is the spiral. The basic \"spiraling\" position consists of rotating the spine approximately 45° around its vertical axis, so that a dancer facing the front of the stage would have their shoulders aligned with the \"Via Triumphalis\", an imaginary line parallel to a corner-to-corner diagonal of the stage. In a \"hip spiral\", the movement initiates subtly from the hip and builds to maximum tension by pulling the opposing shoulder blade away from the initiating hip.\n\nLike other early modern choreographers, Graham used floorwork to explore the themes of weight and gravity in new ways; European students were \"shocked\" when Anna Sokolow introduced them to Graham's \"percussive\" falling techniques in the 1950s. \n\nGraham falls use contractions and manipulate the body's center of gravity, in order to control the timing and direction of a fall. There are a wide range of strictly codified Graham falls, including sitting and traveling falls; falls from elevation; and standing falls, which may be directed forward, backwards, to the side, or into a split. In almost all falls, the dancer exerts a strong upward force to counteract the force of gravity and suspend the body in space for artistic effect.\n\nGraham falls can be used for dramatic effect, taking meaning in a choreographic context from manipulating the balance between actively suspending the body and surrendering to gravity.\n\nGraham technique uses the hands in distinctive ways. They are generally meant to be active and purposeful, not decorative. They are often held in a stylized, cupped position, with the fingers held straight and pulled towards the palm. Arms typically move in response to impetus from the back or shoulders. Arm movements were often left unspecified in Graham's early work, and there is variation between Graham teachers' use of \"port de bras\" (carriage of the arms).\n\nGraham technique is designed to make its dancers expressive and dramatic. Its movement vocabulary draws connections between the physical and emotional meanings of \"power\", \"control\", and \"vulnerability\". Movement initiates from the core, incorporating large back movements and dancing on the floor. The technique highlights weight and effort; according to Marian Horosko, \"the body had to appear to be pushing through a heavy mass, much like the pressure confronted when walking through water.\" \n\nThe technique's \"earthbound\" and \"assertive\" character initially drew strong criticism. In a \"vehement\" 1934 review, Lincoln Kirstein wrote: \"Her jumps are jolts; her walks, limps and staggers; her runs, blind impulsive gallops; her bends, sways,\" and called the effect \"stark, earth-ridden, gaunt, inward-eyed.\" In contrast, Graham was strongly promoted by dance critic John Martin, who helped her to win a popular following.\n\nGraham was exceptionally flexible, and many of her technique's exaggerated movements can be difficult or painful to execute.\n\nGraham is considered a \"codified technique\", like the several schools of classical ballet. There are major differences between Graham and ballet techniques.\n\nGraham dancers are trained to highlight their effort and use weight as a dramatic tool, while ballet dancers strive to appear weightless and effortless. Graham technique's use of large torso movements and floorwork represent further breaks from the balletic tradition. Graham explained that, although she respected the advances made in the course of ballet history, \"Ballet…did not say enough, especially when it came to intense drama, to passion.\" However, her extended collaboration with ballet-trained Erick Hawkins made her technique more balletic over time.\n\nThe technique was originally developed on an all-female company, although the company later included men. Graham sometimes criticized her dancers for failing to initiate from the pelvis, or as she sometimes put it, \"move from the vagina\"; the connection between Graham technique and the female pelvis led one of Graham's male dancers to develop \"vagina envy\". The pelvic origin of the contraction contributes to the role of sexuality in Graham technique.\n\nFeminist dance scholar Dee Reynolds has argued that, because Graham technique was \"so large and forceful, thrusting into and conquering space,\" it allowed Graham and her early all-female company to \"redefine femininity as powerful and autonomous.\" Reynolds also noted that the idea of \"moving from the vagina\" is similar to late nineteenth-century ideas about \"female hysteria,\" a supposed sexual disorder sometimes linked to dancing, and Graham's contractions could be seen as reclaiming the female body as an artistic medium.\n\nGraham, along with Doris Humphrey, Helen Tamiris, Agnes de Mille, and others, was part of an artistic movement in dance which rejected both the centuries-old tradition of classical ballet and the first-generation rebels of modern dance, such as those who taught at the Denishawn school where Graham studied.\n\nThe expressive force of Graham technique had a revolutionary effect on modern dance. Graham is now taught in most university dance programs, and remains the \"hallmark\" style of contemporary concert dance; its movement vocabulary is familiar to almost all professional contemporary dancers. It strongly influenced several other codified techniques, notably those of Merce Cunningham, Lester Horton, and Paul Taylor.\n\nGraham developed a daily class for her company, which is still used (with some variations) to teach her technique. The class is organized as follows:\n\n\nMartha Graham founded a school, the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance, which she sold in 1956. After Graham's death, Ron Protas, her sole heir, sued the school for the rights to use Graham's trademarked name and choreography. A federal court awarded the school the rights to the names \"Martha Graham\" and \"Graham technique\" in 2001, and the rights to Graham's choreography in 2002.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44674733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44674733", "title": "Humboldtian model of higher education", "text": "Humboldtian model of higher education\n\nThe Humboldtian model of higher education (German: \"Humboldtisches Bildungsideal\", literally: Humboldtian education ideal) is a concept of academic education that emerged in the early 19th century and whose core idea is a holistic combination of research and studies. Sometimes called simply the \"Humboldtian model\", it integrates the arts and sciences with research to achieve both comprehensive general learning and cultural knowledge, and it is still followed today.\n\nHumboldt's educational model went beyond vocational training. In a letter to the Prussian king, he wrote:\n\nThe philosopher Julian Nida-Rümelin has criticised discrepancies between Humboldt's ideals and the contemporary European education policy, which narrowly understands education as a preparation for the labour market, arguing that we need to decide between McKinsey and Humboldt.\n\nThe concept of holistic academic education (compare Bildung) was an idea of Wilhelm von Humboldt, a Prussian philosopher, government functionary and diplomat. As a privy councillor in the Interior Ministry, he reformed the Prussian school and university system according to humanist principles. He founded the University of Berlin (now the Humboldt University of Berlin) and appointed distinguished scholars to teach and research there. Several scholars have called him the most influential education official in German history.\nHumboldt sought to create an educational system based on unbiased knowledge and analysis, combining research and teaching and allowing students to choose their own course of study. The University of Berlin was later named after him and his brother, the naturalist Alexander von Humboldt.\n\nHumboldt's model was based on two ideas of the Enlightenment: the individual and the world citizen. Humboldt believed that the university (and education in general, as in the Prussian education system) should enable students to become autonomous individuals and world citizens by developing their own reasoning powers in an environment of academic freedom. Humboldt envisaged an ideal of \"Bildung\", education in a broad sense, which aimed not merely to provide professional skills through schooling along a fixed path but rather to allow students to build individual character by choosing their own way.\n\nHumboldt had studied the Greek classics since his youth. He is a prominent example of Eliza Marian Butler's thesis about the important role of Ancient Greek literature and art in 19th-century German thinking. Humboldt believed that study of the Hellenic past would help the German national consciousness, reconciling it with modernity but distinguishing it from French culture, which he saw as rooted in the Roman tradition. The vehicle for this task was to be the university.\n\nThe cultural-historical background of the Humboldtian model answered the demands of the Bildungsbürgertum for enhanced general knowledge (\"Allgemeinbildung\"). The Bildungsbürgertum led the Prussian reforms of the early 19th century and managed to generate a knowledge society \"ante litteram\".\n\nHumboldt believed that teaching should be guided by current research, and that research should be unbiased and independent from ideological, economic, political or religious influences. The Humboldtian model strives for unconditional academic freedom in the intellectual investigation of the world, both for teachers and for students. Study should be guided by humanistic ideals and free thought, and knowledge should be formed on the basis of logic, reason, and empiricism rather than authority, tradition, or dogma. In line with the basic concept of Wissenschaft, Humboldt regarded philosophy as the link between the different academic disciplines, which include both humanities and natural sciences.\n\nHumboldt encouraged the University of Berlin to operate according to scientific, as opposed to market-driven, principles such as curiosity, freedom of research, and internal objectives. Nevertheless, Humboldt was a political conservative (in Prussian terms) and saw the state as the major player in educational matters. In 1920 George Peabody Gooch said that Humboldt's idea of the state could only be realised in a \"community of Humboldts\".\n\nThe University of Berlin, founded in 1810 under the influence of Wilhelm von Humboldt and renamed the Humboldt University of Berlin after World War II, is traditionally seen as the model institution of the 19th century.<ref name=\"www.drc.uns.ac.rs/presentations\"></ref>\n\nThe university's features included a unity in teaching and research, the pursuit of higher learning in the philosophy faculty, freedom of study for students (\"Lernfreiheit\", contrasted with the prescriptive curricula of the French system) and corporate autonomy for universities despite their being funded by the state. In addition to Humboldt, the group of reformers in Prussia included philosophers such as Fichte and Schleiermacher, and Berlin University was a focus of national cultural revival. Humboldt was aware of other German philosophers educational concepts, such as Kant, Hegel and Fichte. Schleiermacher was an important influence on the Berlin university.\n\nThese principles, in particular the idea of the research-based university, rapidly made an impact both in Germany and abroad. The Humboldtian university concept profoundly influenced higher education throughout central, eastern, and northern Europe. It was in competition with the post-Revolutionary French concept of the \"grandes écoles\". The French system lacked the freedom of German universities and instead imposed severe discipline and control over curriculum, awarding of degrees, conformity of views, and personal habits, instituting, for example, a ban on beards in 1852. Universities built on the Humboldtian model have provided students with the ability to address recalcitrant problems, leading to major scientific breakthroughs with important economic effects.\nAmerican universities were early to adopt several of the German educational and scientific principles, and during the 20th century these principles have been recognised as valuable in most of the world.\n\nAlready in the 1960s, the Humboldtian model of the university attracted renewed interest and was discussed internationally. The German sociologist and philosopher Jürgen Habermas actively promoted Humboldt's ideas.\n\nIn the 1970s, breakthrough discoveries in biotechnology and patent legislation favouring market-oriented research such as the Bayh–Dole Act in the US allowed for the creation of research partnerships between universities and industry with the objective of rapidly bringing innovations to market. (The earliest such partnerships in the US, such as Stanford Research Park, date back to the post-war period.) A similar development has taken place in all industrial countries, based on proposals of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. This innovation of the \"market university\" as an economic engine, which first emerged in the US, diverges from Humboldt's principles. In a 2012 study, Ståhle and Hautamäki doubted the long-term sustainability of what they termed a \"contradictory science policy\", and argued for a return to a neo-Humboldtian approach to the university that would aim less for \"innovation than for civilization\" and reinstate the basic Humboldtian principles of academic freedom and autonomy for educational institutions, the pursuit of knowledge as a basis for both civilization and education (German \"Bildung\"), and unity in teaching and research.\n\nThe implications of the Humboldtian approach and of the conflict between market-driven and idealistic approaches to higher education have led to ironic results in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. Though elite private universities in the US do charge high tuition fees, both universities and their students also benefit from charitable donations as well as from government support. This combination of resources results in lavish funding that far exceeds the budgets of German universities, which are state-funded and mostly tuition-free.\n\nHumboldt is still being discussed in Germany. Current problems and policy decisions regarding German education are addressed by a joint initiative called \"Konzertierte Aktion Internationales Marketing für den Bildungs- und Forschungsstandort Deutschland\" (KAIM). KAIM coordinates efforts of the partners, which include the state and federal government, universities, trade unions and industry associations. (The name of the group, KAIM, refers to earlier cooperative efforts, for example the at the end of the 1960s.) It tries to improve the international position of German education and research capacities, including marketing. Estimating that American universities receive US$10 billion annually from tuition fees and other financial contributions, which KAIM sees as an important source of revenue for the US, they have warned Germany to prepare for American attempts to market the American university model via the World Trade Organization in order to corner the international educational and research market. The Humboldt concept and its image are used by different and sometimes opposing parties in the German debate.\n\nIn Germany, the German Universities Excellence Initiative was begun in 2005–06 to counter the perceived lack of cutting-edge achievement in both research and education in the state-funded universities. This initiative is primarily driven and funded at the federal level. The American tradition of large private grants and foundations for science has been mirrored in the 21st century, for example at Freiberg University of Mining and Technology. The Freiberg University, one of the oldest mining schools in the world, narrowly escaped closure after German reunification. In 2007 it received a private grant in the triple-digit millions of euros from the \"Dr.-Erich-Krüger-Stiftung\" (Dr. Erich Krüger Foundation), the largest grant ever made to a state-owned university in Germany. Peter Krüger, the Munich-based real estate and food retail entrepreneur who endowed the foundation, was born in Freiberg and started an apprenticeship there in 1946, but was driven away by the East German communists because of his bourgeois background. He was made an honorary senator of the University of Mining and Technology in 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19134879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19134879", "title": "Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma", "text": "Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma\n\nKalamandalam Kalyanikutti Amma (1915–1999) was an epoch-making Mohiniyattam danseuse from Kerala in southern India. A native of Thirunavaya in Malappuram district of the state, she was instrumental in resurrecting Mohiniyattam from a dismal, near-extinct state into a mainstream Indian classical dance, rendering it formal structure and ornamentation.\n\nKalyanikutti Amma, one of the early-batch students of Kerala Kalamandalam, was married to the late Kathakali maestro Padma Shri Kalamandalam Krishnan Nair.\n\nOf the two books Kalyanikutti Amma has authored, \"Mohiniyattam - History and Dance Structure\" is considered as an elaborate and only authentic documentation on Mohiniyattam. Noted among her disciples are her daughters Sreedevi Rajan and Kala Vijayan and Mrinalini Sarabhai and Deepti Omchery Bhalla.\n\nA winner of both the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy and Kendra Sangeet Natak Akademi awards, Kalyanikutty Amma died on 12 May 1999 in Tripunithura (where the couple had settled) at the age of 84. Her son Kalasala Babu was a cinema and television actor, while her granddaughter Smitha Rajan is a noted Mohiniyattam artiste.\n\nShe got 'Kavayithri' award from the famous poet Vallathol Narayana Menon. In 1986 she got Kerala Kalamandala Fellowship.\n\nKalyanikutti Amma passed the art of Mohiniattam beyond India. The first Russian dancer, Mohiniattam, was . In 1997, Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma blessed her on the continuation of the Mohiniattam tradition. Milana Severskaya created in St. Petersburg, Russia the first outside India school of education Mohiniattam. She founded the Natya Theater, where you can see the choreography Kalamandalam Kalyanikutty Amma in the play, dedicated to her memory. Milana Siverskaya has released a film dedicated to the memory of the guru Kalyanikutty Amma in which one can see how the guru taught dance in deep old age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2387487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2387487", "title": "Kill house", "text": "Kill house\n\nA kill house or shoot house is a live ammunition small arms shooting range used to train military and law enforcement personnel for close contact engagements in urban combat environments. Kill houses are designed to mimic residential, commercial and industrial spaces. Kill houses are often used to acquaint personnel in infiltrating (gaining access) structures and the methods used to overwhelm the target(s) in the quickest and most efficient manner. The construction of one of these facilities can vary in material and cost depending on the needs and the resources available. Like any shooting range, there are rules that must be followed to ensure a safe kill house training session.\n\nA kill or shoot house is a type of indoor firing range modified to resemble a residential environment and with walls and floor fortified to safely absorb rounds fired from close range. It is used to train soldiers and police for various urban combat scenarios while permitting them to use their full power service weapons. The scenarios trained for include room and apartment clearing, door breaching and the inclusion of hostage or noncombatant targets along with enemy targets (\"shoot/no shoot\").\n\nSimpler kill houses without the necessary fortification to be safe for live fire can be used for blank or dry fire training of the same variety. As necessary this can be reduced even further down to the \"glass house\", which is merely a residential floorplan marked out in full scale on the ground.\n\nKill houses can be built from almost any materials, ranging from concrete to something as simple as plywood depending on the needs of the users of the kill house. For structures that need to contain and absorb gun fire, stronger materials are needed such as concrete or ballistic rubber. It's important to note that using materials that can't absorb gun fire may lead to injuries and death. For more temporary or cost effective needs, plywood or a plastic sheet can make a suitable wall.\n\nIn addition to the actual facility, the shoot house also requires targets to simulate the individuals they must subdue. The most common and recognizable targets used in shoot houses are paper silhouettes and mannequins. To simulate the movement of an actual person the targets are either placed on rails or they can pop up from an undisclosed location.\n\nAn alternative to the more traditional shoot house is a virtual kill house. Virtual kill houses make use of audio and visual technology to create an interactive, if not video game like, experience. This version of a kill house uses a projector to display different scenarios on a screen while sensors keep track of the soldier's relative position and if he/she has hit the target on the screen.\n\nVirtual kill houses provide a similar experience to a traditional shoot house, but are more interactive. In a normal shoot house, soldiers would shoot at silhouettes or mannequins, but in the virtual counterpart the targets are life sized and free to move along the screen. These shoot houses usually only require a flat surface to display the scenarios, so wax ammunition is used in place of actual bullets.\n\nOne notable virtual kill house is the Army Live Fire Virtual Targeting system used at Fort Bragg. Previously, the software used for the facility was part of America's Army, an online recruitment tool, which has been adapted for use in real training exercises.\n\nTo avoid unwanted discharges and accidents, there is a set of guidelines, known as the cardinal rules, used to ensure a safe shoot house session. These cardinal rules are:\n\n\nIn addition to the cardinal rules other guidelines include:\n\nIn addition to military and police use, kill houses, like shooting ranges, are available for public use. Companies such as Meggitt Training Systems offer to build permanent or portable shoot houses for the public. There is also a community of enthusiasts that build and use kill houses for their own purposes and entertainment. Kill houses though are still a training tool first and foremost.\n"}
{"id": "2491057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491057", "title": "Legal education in the United States", "text": "Legal education in the United States\n\nLegal education in the United States generally refers to a graduate degree, the completion of which makes a graduate eligible to sit for an examination for a license to practice as a Lawyer. Around 60 percent of those who complete a law degree typically practice law, with the remainder primarily working in business (especially finance, insurance, real estate, and consulting) or government or policy roles, where their degrees also confer advantages. (Other types of legal education, such as that of paralegals, of Limited Practice Officers (in Washington), and of the citizenry in general, and of the education of lawyers after admission to the bar (continuing legal education) are not covered in this article.)\n\nThe foundations of the first universities in Europe were the glossators of the 11th century, which were schools of law. The first European university, that of Bologna, was founded as a school of law by four famous legal scholars in the 12th century who were students of the glossator school in that city. The first academic title of doctor applied to scholars of law. The University of Bologna served as the model for other law schools of the medieval age. Although it was common for students of law to visit and study at schools in other countries, such was not the case with England because of the English rejection of Roman Law. Although Oxford did teach canonical law, its importance was always superior to civil law in that institution.\n\nIn England in 1292, when Edward I first requested that lawyers be trained, law students merely sat in the courts and observed. Over time, the students would hire professionals to lecture them in their residences. This practice led to the institution of the Inns of Court system. The original method of education at the Inns of Court was a mix of moot court-like practice and lecture, and observation of court proceedings. By the 17th century, the Inns obtained a status as a kind of university akin to Oxford and Cambridge, though very specialized in purpose. With the frequent absence of parties to suits during the Crusades, the importance of the lawyer's role grew tremendously, and the demand for lawyers grew. The apprenticeship program for solicitors emerged, structured and governed by the same rules as the apprenticeship programs for the trades Oxford and Cambridge did not see common law as worthy of study, and included coursework in law only in the context of canon and civil law, and for the purpose of the study of philosophy or history only. These universities, therefore, did not train lawyers. Professional training in England was unlike that of continental Europe, where the law was viewed as an academic discipline. Legal educators in England stressed practical training.\n\nThe training of solicitors by apprenticeship was formally established by an act of parliament in 1729. William Blackstone became the first lecturer of law at Oxford in 1753. The university did not establish the program for the purpose of professional study, and the lectures were very philosophical and theoretical in nature. Blackstone insisted that the study of law should be university based, where concentration on foundational principles can be had, instead of concentration on detail and procedure obtained through apprenticeship and the Inns of Court.\n\nThe Inns of Court continued but became less effective. No significant educational activity or examination was required for bar admission. In 1846, the Parliament examined the education and training of prospective barristers and found the system to be inferior to the legal education provided in Europe and the United States. Therefore, formal schools of law were called for, but not finally established until later in the century. Even then, the bar did not consider a university degree in admission decisions.\n\nInitially there was much resistance to lawyers in colonial North America because of the role they played in hierarchical England. Slowly the colonial governments started using the services of professionals trained in the Inns of Court, and by the end of the Revolution there was a functional bar in each state. As institutions for training developed in the colonies, because of the distrust of a profession only open to the elite in England, the institutions which developed in what would become the United States would be much different from those in England.\n\nInitially in the United States, the legal professionals were trained and imported from England A formal apprenticeship (training) or clerkship program was established first in New York in 1730—at that time a seven-year clerkship was required, and in 1756 a four-year college degree was required in addition to five years of clerking and an examination. Later the requirements were reduced to require only two years of college education. A system like the Inns did not develop, however, and a college education was not required in England until the 19th century, so the American system was unique.\n\nThe clerkship program required much individual study. The mentoring lawyer was expected to carefully select materials for study and to guide the clerk in his study of the law to ensure that the material was being absorbed. The student was supposed to compile his notes of his reading of the law into a \"commonplace book\", which he would endeavor to memorize. Although those were the ideals, in reality the clerks were often overworked and rarely were able to study the law individually as expected. They were often employed to tedious tasks, such as making handwritten copies of documents. Finding sufficient legal texts was also a seriously debilitating issue, and there was no standardization in the books assigned to the clerk trainees because they were assigned by their mentor, whose opinion of the law may be different greatly from his peers. One famous attorney in the United States, William Livingston, stated in 1745 in a New York newspaper that the clerkship program was severely flawed, and that most mentors \"have no manner of concern for their clerk's future welfare… [T]is a monstrous absurdity to suppose, that the law is to be learnt by a perpetual copying of precedents.\" There were some few mentors that were dedicated to the service, and because of their rarity, they became so sought after that the first law schools evolved from the offices of some of these attorneys who took on many clerks and began to spend more time training than practicing law.\n\nIt was seen over the years that the apprenticeship program was not capable of producing lawyers capable of serving their clients. The apprenticeship programs often employed the trainee with menial tasks, and while they were well trained in the day-to-day operations of a law office, they were generally unprepared practitioners or legal reasoners. The establishment of formal faculties of law in U.S. universities did not occur until the latter part of the 18th century. The first law degree granted by a U.S. university was a Bachelor of Law in 1793 by the College of William & Mary, which was abbreviated L.B.; Harvard University was the first university to use the LL.B. abbreviation in the United States.\n\nThe first university law programs in the United States, such as that of the University of Maryland established in 1812, included much theoretical and philosophical study, including works such as the Bible, Cicero, Seneca, Aristotle, Adam Smith, Montesquieu and Grotius. It has been said that the early university law schools of the early 19th century seemed to be preparing students for careers as statesmen rather than as lawyers. At the LL.B. programs in the early 1900s at Stanford University and Yale continued to include \"cultural study,\" which consisted of courses in languages, mathematics and economics.\n\nIn the 1850s there were many proprietary schools which originated from a practitioner taking on multiple apprentices and establishing a school and which provided a practical legal education, as opposed to the one offered in the universities which offered an education in the theory, history and philosophy of law. The universities assumed that the acquisition of skills would happen in practice, while the proprietary schools concentrated on the practical skills during education.\n\nIn part to compete with the small professional law schools, there began a great change in U.S. university legal education. For a short time beginning in 1826 Yale began to offer a complete \"practitioners' course\" which lasted two years and included practical courses, such as pleading drafting. U.S. Supreme Court justice Joseph Story started the spirit of change in legal education at Harvard when, as a lecturer there in the early 19th century, he advocated a more \"scientific study\" of the law.\nTherefore, at Harvard the education was much of a trade school type of approach to legal education, contrary to the more liberal arts education advocated by Blackstone at Oxford and Jefferson at William and Mary. Nonetheless there continued to be debate among educators over whether legal education should be more vocational, as at the private law schools, or through a rigorous scientific method, such as that developed by Story and Langdell. In the words of Dorsey Ellis, \"Langdell viewed law as a science and the law library as the laboratory, with the cases providing the basis for learning those 'principles or doctrines' of which 'law, considered as a science, consists.'\" Nonetheless, into the year 1900 most states did not require a university education (although an apprenticeship was often required) and most practitioners had not attended any law school or college.\n\nTherefore, the modern legal education system in the U.S. is a combination of teaching law as a science and a practical skill, implementing elements such as clinical training, which has become an essential part of legal education in the U.S. and in the J.D. program of study. Whereas in the 18th and 19th century, few U.S. lawyers trained in an apprenticeship \"achieved a level of competence necessary to adequately serve their clients,\" today as a result of the development of the U.S. legal education system, \"law graduates perceive themselves to be prepared upon graduation\" for the practice of law.\n\nAbout half of the faculty hired by law schools in the United States result from interviews conducted at the annual AALS Faculty Recruitment Conference at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel in Washington, D.C.\n\nLegal education is typically received through a law school program. The professional degree granted by U.S. law schools is the Juris Doctor (J.D.). Prospective lawyers who have been awarded the J.D. (or other appropriate credential), must fulfill additional, state-specific requirements in order to gain admission to the bar in the United States.\n\nThe Juris Doctor (J.D.), like the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), is a professional doctorate. The American Bar Association issued a Council Statement that the JD is equivalent to the PhD for educational employment purposes. The Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) (\"Scientiae Juridicae Doctor\" in Latin), and Doctor of Comparative Law (D.C.L.), are research and academic-based doctorate level degrees. In the U.S., the Legum Doctor is only awarded as an honorary degree.\n\nAs of July 2012, Yale Law School offers a Ph.D. in Law designed for students who have already earned a J.D. and who wish to pursue extended legal scholarship.\n\nAcademic degrees for non-lawyers are available at the baccalaureate and master's level. A common baccalaureate level degree is a Bachelor of Science in Legal Studies (B.S.). Academic master's degrees in legal studies are available, such as the Master of Studies (M.S.), and the Master of Professional Studies (M.P.S.).\n\nForeign lawyers seeking to practice in the U.S., who do not have a Juris Doctor (J.D.), often seek to obtain a Juris Master (J.M.), Master of Laws (LL.M.), Master of Comparative Law (M.C.L.), or a Master of Jurisprudence (M.J.).\n\nPlease see Admission to the bar in the United States. Depending upon their state, attorneys must also satisfy Continuing Legal Education (CLE) credit requirements.\n\nAmerican law firms are often very credential-oriented. Apart from the minimum requirements of a J.D. and admission to the state bar, there are certain credentials recognized within the profession to distinguish lawyers from one another; those credentials are almost always mentioned in lawyer profiles and biographies, which are used to communicate to both fellow attorneys and prospective clients. Chief among them are such honors as being a member of their law school's law review, moot court, or mock trial programs. Judicial clerkships after graduation or law clerk positions at prestigious law firms while in school are also distinguishing marks.\n\nThis credential-based system is sown in law school, where high grades are frequently rewarded with law review membership and much sought after summer clerkships (called \"summer associateships\" in some areas) with large private law firms. These programs are designed to give a firm's summer associates an idea of what the everyday practice of law is like at that particular firm by allowing them to work with the firm's partners and associates on real projects involving real clients. In larger cities, such as New York or Chicago, summer associates at large firms can make as much as $3,000 per week.\n\nCompetition to receive a summer offer from a firm is intense, and credentials (a student's GPA and class rank, law review or moot court membership, publications, etc.) play a decisive role in determining who is selected. Most offers are received after a three-step interview process. First, during the early fall of their 2L (second year), students at each law school first submit their resumes to a central paper file or online database (such as CRIS or LexisNexis Martindale-Hubbell), from which interviewers selected candidates they wish to interview, based almost entirely on their 1L GPA and class rank. Second, selected students are notified, usually via email, and then schedule a screening interview, either at the law school or at a local hotel; this interview is usually conducted by one or more attorneys from that firm and is part of most schools' On Campus Interview (\"OCI\") program, in which firms send recruiters to schools across the country. Finally, students selected from the screening interviews are invited for a final \"callback\" interview, commonly held at the firm's offices. If the selected student attends school in a place far from the city in which the firm is located, it is not unusual for the firm to fly the student in and pay for accommodations while he is in town. After the callback, a selected candidate will receive a phone call (usually within 48 hours) informing him that he has been extended an offer. After the summer, early into their 3L (third) years, the vast majority of summer associates receive formal offers to join the firm after graduating school and sitting for the bar exam.\n\nThe \"US News and World Report\" publishes the most well-known annual ranking of American programs, where Yale Law School has held the #1 spot every year since the inception of the ranking reports. A number of alternative rankings exist, such as the Leiter Reports Law School Rankings. These rankings divide law schools into \"tiers\" based on the overall quality of each program. A number of factors and statistics are compiled to produce these rankings each year, including academic reputation, the quality of the faculty (usually measured by the quality of its publications), the quality of the student body (usually measured by average Law School Admission Test, or LSAT, score and undergraduate grade point average), the number of volumes in the library, the earnings potential of graduates, bar passage rates, and job placement rates. Most of these measurements are acquired by voluntary self-reporting from each law program; others are compiled through a formal process of polling judges, legal professionals, recent graduates, law professors, and school administrators. The issuance of press releases that dismiss the rankings has become a yearly ritual for many law programs, but all but a handful cooperate in gathering and reporting statistics to the various ranking publications.\n\nThere are approximately 200 ABA approved law schools in the United States. There is no universally accepted ranking system, but many have attempted to divide law schools into \"tiers\" consisting of quartiles (50 law schools each) or perhaps eighths (25 law schools each), or have separated out the top 10 or top 20 law schools by U.S. News rank or median LSAT score. \"After the JD\", a large study of law graduates who passed the bar examination (but were not necessarily practicing law), found that graduates of the top 10 law schools by median LSAT score of incoming classes typically earned incomes exceeding $170,000 within 12 years after graduation. Graduates of the next 10 law schools earned around $158,000, and graduates of schools ranked 21-50 typically earned more than $130,000. Another peer reviewed study found that Law graduates at the 75th percentile of earnings ability typically earned around $80,000 more every year than they would have earned with only a bachelor's degree. Law graduate earnings typically continue to grow and do not peak until their mid 50s; thus graduates of top tier law schools can likely peak at incomes exceeding $250,000 per year.\n\nThough the specific rankings change from year to year, the overall composition of the top schools has remained fairly constant. Most legal professionals (judges, practitioners, or professors) rank the University of Chicago, Columbia, Harvard, NYU, Stanford, and Yale in the top echelon of American law schools, with Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, and Stanford Law School being considered the most prestigious and the most selective schools to gain admission as measured by reputation scores from \"U.S. News\" surveys and admissions rate. In recent years, many people have used the concept of the T14 (the top 14) to define the top tier of law schools. These schools have consistently ranked in the top 14 in the annual US News ranking of law schools. The T14 is composed of the schools listed above and also Berkeley (Boalt Hall), Cornell, Duke, Georgetown, Michigan, Northwestern, University of Pennsylvania, and Virginia. The most prestigious and sought-after law jobs in the country—U.S. Supreme Court Clerks, legal faculty, Bristow Fellows, Office of Legal Counsel Lawyers, Assistant U.S. Attorneys in cities like New York and Chicago—are more likely to be awarded to students and graduates in one of these programs. Recruiters from elite law firms visit top-tier law schools each fall to recruit new associates for the following summer. In contrast, small and mid-market law firms — which make up the bulk of law firms in the U.S. — cannot predict their labor needs that far in advance, and most new law school graduates who do not graduate from top tier law schools therefore must seek out jobs at law firms during their third year or even after graduation.\n\nThe majority of law school students do not end up at an elite university, but many can, and often do, find well-paying jobs in law firms, government, or business positions. \"After the JD\", a large study of law graduates who passed the bar examination (but were not necessarily practicing law), found that even graduates of lower ranked law schools were typically making six figure ($100,000+) incomes within 12 years after graduation., although graduates of higher ranking schools typically earned more. \"The Economic Value of a Law Degree\", a peer reviewed study which included law graduates who do not pass the bar exam, found that law graduates at the 25th percentile of earnings ability typically earned around $20,000 more every year than they would have earned with only a bachelor's degree, compared to around $80,000 more per year for those at the 75th percentile.\n\nMost law schools outside the top tier are more regional in scope and often have very strong regional connections to these post-graduation opportunities. For example, a student graduating from a lower-tier law school may find opportunities in that school's \"home market\": the legal market containing many of that school's alumni, where most of the school's networking and career development energies are focused. In contrast, an upper-tier law school may be limited in terms of employment opportunities to the broad geographic region that the law school feeds.\n\nSome schools are accredited by state governments. They are located in Alabama, California, Massachusetts, and Tennessee. Some state authorized law schools are maintained to offer a non-ABA option eliminating costly ABA requirements seen as unnecessary by many of these states.\n\nMany schools are not accredited by a state or the American Bar Association. Most are located in California. While graduates of these schools may apply for admission to the California State Bar, they may not necessarily be allowed to apply for admission in other states.\n\nWithin each U.S. law school, students may receive additional credentials. These include:\n\n\nOn the basis of these credentials, as well as favorable faculty recommendations and other connections, some students become law clerks with judges after graduation, signing on for one or two-year clerkships. Clerkships may be with state or federal judges. There is a generally recognized hierarchy with regard to clerkships (federal clerkships are considered more prestigious than state court clerkships, and appellate court clerkships are considered more prestigious than trial court clerkships, with United States Supreme Court clerkships considered the most prestigious).\n\nThe benefit to the lawyer from clerkships is experience working for a judge. Often, clerks engage in significant legal research and writing for the judge, writing memos to assist a judge in coming to a legal conclusion in some cases, and writing drafts of opinions based on the judge's decisions. Appellate court clerkships, although generally more prestigious, do not necessarily give one a great deal of practical experience in the day-to-day life of a lawyer in private practice. The average litigator might get much more out of a clerkship at the trial court level, where he or she will be learning about motions practices, dealing with lawyers, and generally learning how a trial court works on the inside. What a lawyer might lose in prestige he or she might gain in experience.\n\nBy and large, though, clerkships provide other valuable assets to a new lawyer. Judges often become mentors to their clerks, providing the attorney with an experienced individual to whom he or she can go for advice. Fellow clerks can also become lifelong friends and/or professional connections. Those contemplating academia do well to obtain an appellate court clerkship at the federal level, since those clerkships provide a great opportunity to think at a very high level about the law.\n\nHierarchies aside, clerkships are great experiences for the new lawyers, and law schools encourage graduates to engage in a clerkship to broaden their professional experiences.\n\nSome law school graduates are able to clerk for one of the Justices on the Supreme Court. Each Justice takes 4 clerks per year. Almost without exception, these clerks are graduates of elite law schools (with Harvard, Yale, and the University of Chicago being the most highly represented schools) who have already clerked for at least one year with highly selective federal circuit court judges (such as Judges Merrick Garland, Alex Kozinski, Harvie Wilkinson, David Tatel, Richard Posner). It is perhaps the most highly selective and prestigious position a recently graduated lawyer can have, and Supreme Court clerks are often highly sought after by law firms, the government, and law schools. The vast majority of Supreme Court clerks either become academics at elite law schools, enter private practice as appellate attorneys, or take highly selective government positions.\n\nLaw school normally consists of only a classroom setting, unlike training in other professions. (For example, medical school in the United States is traditionally two years of class environment and two years of \"rotations\", or an apprenticeship-type hands-on experience.) Although some countries such as Germany and France require apprenticeship with a practicing attorney, this is not required in any United States jurisdiction. Because of this, many law students graduate with a grasp of the legal doctrines necessary to pass the bar exam, but with no actual hands-on experience or knowledge of the day-to-day practice of law. The American Bar Association called for American law schools to move towards a practice-based approach in the MacCrate Report.\n\nMany law schools have started to supplement classroom education with practical experience. Externship programs allow students to receive academic credit for unpaid work with a judge, government agency, or community legal services office. Several law schools also have law clinic programs in which students counsel actual clients under the supervision of a professor, such as University of Massachusetts School of Law. City University of New York School of Law and Florida Coastal School of Law are some of the few law schools that require student participation in law clinic courses. Similarly, Northeastern University School of Law and Savannah Law School use cooperative education to give their students law office work experience prior to graduation. Washington and Lee University School of Law has completely re-vamped its curriculum to require students to take practicum courses, externships, and clinics in the final year of law school to provide experience in preparation for practice.\n\nLarge scale representative studies find that the overwhelming majority of lawyers are satisfied with their careers and their decisions to attend law school. Based on anecdotal evidence, some have claimed that high level of stress, a \"culture of hours\" and ethical issues common in the legal profession lead to a lower level of job satisfaction relative to many other careers. See, for example, \"Money and Ethics: The Young Lawyer's Conundrum\", by Patrick J. Schiltz, January 2000 Washington State Bar News\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2644957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2644957", "title": "Literature review", "text": "Literature review\n\nA literature review or narrative review is a type of review article. A literature review is a scholarly paper, which includes the current knowledge including substantive findings, as well as theoretical and methodological contributions to a particular topic. Literature reviews are secondary sources, and do not report new or original experimental work. Most often associated with academic-oriented literature, such reviews are found in academic journals, and are not to be confused with book reviews that may also appear in the same publication. Literature reviews are a basis for research in nearly every academic field. A narrow-scope literature review may be included as part of a peer-reviewed journal article presenting new research, serving to situate the current study within the body of the relevant literature and to provide context for the reader. In such a case, the review usually precedes the methodology and results sections of the work.\n\nProducing a literature review may also be part of graduate and post-graduate student work, including in the preparation of a thesis, dissertation, or a journal article. Literature reviews are also common in a research proposal or prospectus (the document that is approved before a student formally begins a dissertation or thesis).\n\nThe main types of literature reviews are: \"evaluative\", \"exploratory\", and \"instrumental\".\n\nA fourth type, the \"systematic\" review, is often classified separately, but is essentially a literature review focused on a research question, trying to identify, appraise, select and synthesize all high-quality research evidence and arguments relevant to that question. A \"meta-analysis\" is typically a systematic review using statistical methods to effectively combine the data used on all selected studies to produce a more reliable result.\n\nShields and Rangarajan (2013) distinguish between the \"process\" of reviewing the literature and a finished work or \"product\" known as a literature review. The \"process\" of reviewing the literature is often ongoing and informs many aspects of the empirical research project. \n\nA careful literature review is usually 15 to 30 pages and could be longer. The process of reviewing the literature requires different kinds of activities and ways of thinking. Shields and Rangarajan (2013) and Granello (2001) link the activities of doing a literature review with Benjamin Bloom’s revised taxonomy of the cognitive domain (ways of thinking: remembering, understanding, applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11392932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11392932", "title": "Marco Casagrande", "text": "Marco Casagrande\n\nMarco Casagrande (born May 7, 1971) is a Finnish architect, environmental artist, architectural theorist, writer and professor of architecture. He graduated from Helsinki University of Technology department of architecture (2001).\n\nCasagrande was born in Turku, Finland, to a well-off Finnish-Italian Catholic family. He spent his childhood in Ylitornio in Finnish Lapland, but went to school in Karis, a southern Finland small town, before moving to Helsinki to study architecture.\n\nCasagrande claimed that he volunteered for the Bosnian Croat Defence Forces HVO in 1993 after his service in the Finnish Army. He wrote under the pen name Luca Moconesi a controversial book \"Mostarin tien liftarit / Hitchhikers on the Road to Mostar\" (WSOY 1997) about his alleged experiences in the Bosnian Civil War, and based on descriptions of war crimes committed by the main character in the autobiographical book, he came under suspicion as a possible war criminal. After becoming under suspicion he claimed that the book was in fact a work of fiction. The truth about Casagrande's involvement in the war remains uncertain.\n\nLater Casagrande has expressed views condemning war crimes: \"Those troops know that they are doing wrong. This is the very opposite of constructive collectivity and group spirit. Anybody can understand that it is by no measures militarily efficient to go kicking the doors of old people's home.\" Casagrande has been lecturing in the National Defence University of Finland since 2006 on courses of strategy and leadership.\n\nFrom the early stages of his career Casagrande started to mix architecture with other disciplines of art and science landing with a series of ecologically conscious architectural installations around the world. After being a finalist in the UK journal \"Architectural Review\"s Emerging Architecture competition (1999) Marco Casagrande and his then partner Sami Rintala were invited to the Venice Biennial 2000. The New York Times reporter chose their project \"60 Minute Man\" as his personal favorite in the Biennale. In the project Casagrande & Rintala had planted on oak forest in an abandoned barge on top of 60 minutes worth of composted human waste produced by the city of Venice. Casagrande's cross-over architectural work encompasses the realms of architecture, urban and environmental planning, environmental art, circuses and other artistic disciplines.\n\n\"In search for subconscious architecture, real reality and connection between the modern man and nature. He believes that one shall not be blindfolded by stress, the surroundings of economics, the online access to entertainment or information. What is real is valuable.\"\n\nCasagrande's works and teaching are moving freely in-between architecture, urban and environmental design and science, environmental art and circus adding up into cross-over architectural thinking of \"commedia dell'architettura\", a broad vision of built human environment tied into social drama and environmental awareness. \"There is no other reality than nature\".\n\nCasagrande was nominated as the professor of ecological urban planning in the Taiwan based Tamkang University after the Treasure Hill project, in which Casagrande changed an illegal settlement of urban farmers into an experimental laboratory of environmental urbanism. The overhaul had mixed reactions from the community. In 2017, he was invited-professor at the ENSAV : École Nationale Supérieure d'Architecture de Versailles.\n\nMarco Casagrande is the laureate of the European Prize for Architecture 2013, CICA Award of the International Committee of Architectural Critics for conceptual and artistic architecture. and UNESCO & Locus Foundation's Global Award for Sustainable Architecture 2015.\n\nCasagrande views cities as complex energy organisms in which different overlapping layers of energy flows are determining the actions of the citizens as well as the development of the city. By mixing environmentalism and urban design Casagrande is developing methods of punctual manipulation of the urban energy flows in order to create an ecologically sustainable urban development towards the so-called 3rd Generation City (post industrial city).\n\nCasagrande utilized the tenets of acupuncture: treat the points of blockage and let relief ripple throughout the body. More immediate and sensitive to community needs than traditional institutional forms of large scale urban renewal interventions would not only respond to localized needs, but do so with a knowledge of how citywide systems operated and converged at that single node. Release pressure at strategic points, release pressure for the whole city.\n\nThe theory of the Third Generation City views the post industrial urban condition as a machine ruined by nature including human nature and architects as \"design shamans merely interpreting what the bigger nature of the shared mind is transmitting.\" This organic machine is kept alive through continuous and spontaneous ruining processes performed by citizens, to whom Casagrande refers to as 「anarchist gardeners」 by means of urban farming, illegal architecture and urban acupuncture. The element of Ruin is viewed as something man-made having become part of nature. The theory is developed in the independent multidisciplinary research centre Ruin Academy (2010-).\n\nThird Generation City follows the first generation where humans' peacefully coexisted with nature and the second generation built walls and stone structures everywhere in an attempt to shut out nature. In the third generation however, nature, which can never be truly shut out, grows back through the ruins, through the cracks in the wall, sucking human nature back into the wider nature. Third Generation City concentrates on local knowledge and urban acupuncture rather than on centrally governed urban planning. Casagrande describes urban acupuncture as:\n\"[a] cross-over architectural manipulation of the collective sensuous intellect of a city. City is viewed as multi-dimensional sensitive energy-organism, a living environment. Urban acupuncture aims into a touch with this nature.\" and \"Sensitivity to understand the energy flows of the collective chi beneath the visual city and reacting on the hot-spots of this chi. Architecture is in the position to produce the acupuncture needles for the urban chi.\" and \"A weed will root into the smallest crack in the asphalt and eventually break the city. Urban acupuncture is the weed and the acupuncture point is the crack. The possibility of the impact is total, connecting human nature as part of nature.\" The theory \nopens the door for uncontrolled creativity and freedom. Each citizen is enabled to join the creative process, feel free to use city space for any purpose and develop his environment according to his will. The agents of the Third Generation City are sensitive citizens who feel the calling of a sustainable co-operation with the rest of the nature, sensitive citizen who are aware of the destruction that the insensitive modern machine is causing to nature including human nature. Urban acupuncture produces small-scale but socially catalytic interventions into the urban fabric. \n\n\"Architects’ and designers’ position about organic knowledge is tricky. We are not the ones who carry this collective genetic memory on, but we are in a better position to interpret and negotiate with it, step by step, like a shaman getting answers from the organic side. This can easily go very wrong, when architect starts copyrighting fragments of local knowledge under his ego. I guess often it would be enough to create a platform of accidents for the organic knowledge to surface, start cooking, and finding its own forms and dynamics. Design is not necessarily needed in here, and design should not replace reality – while organic knowledge is close to reality, nature.\" \nCasagrande's works have been selected three times to the Venice Architecture Biennale; years 2000, 2004 and 2006.\n\nCasagrande & Rintala - Marco Casagrande and Sami Rintala - is a Finnish architect and artist group producing architectonic installations 1998–2003 for international venues of contemporary architecture and art. Their works are moving in-between architecture and environmental art.\n\nFor their landscape installation \"1000 White Flags\" (summer 2002), for example, the artists speckled a downhill-skiing range in Koli Nature Park, Finland, with flags made of used sheets from mental hospitals. Casagrande & Rintala here drew attention to the madness of businessmen who cut down ancient forests.\n\nCasagrande & Rintala's work Land(e)scape was awarded in the Architectural Review's Emerging Architecture Award 1999 competition and chosen to the Venice Biennale 2000. \"New York Times\" architecture critic Herbert Muschamp chose their project 60 Minute Man his personal favourite of the biennale.\n\nCasagrande & Rintala designed and built all their works by themselves. The design process continued during the construction work. \n\"The work itself usually changes its shape or obtains more layers during the construction process. We keep ourselves open to changes in the work. When it is finding its shape it usually starts to tell us more about itself.\"\n\nLand(e)scape (1999), an architectural installation by Finnish architects Casagrande & Rintala, with Marco Casagrande and Sami Rintala, in a former field in Savonlinna. The work is commenting on the desertion process of the Finnish countryside.\n\nThree of these abandoned barns \"were driven,\" the architects explained, \"to the point where they have had to break their primeval union with the soil. Desolate, they have risen on their shanks and are swaying towards the cities of the south.\"\n\nThe work was awarded in the Architectural Review's Emerging Architecture 1999 competition and selected to the Venice Biennale 2000. Land(e)scape launched the international career or Casagrande & Rintala\n\nThe art work was set on fire by the authors in October 1999.\n\nLand(e)scape represented Finland in the New Trends or Architecture in Europe and Japan 2001 exhibitions.\n\nRedrum (2003) is an architectonic installation in Anchorage Alaska by Finnish architects Casagrande & Rintala. The work is commissioned by Alaska Design Forum.\n\n3 Alaska Railroad oil tanks cut into total 12 pieces and turned into a temple structure opposite the Federal Building of Anchorage in the crossing of C-Street and 7th Avenue. The interior is painted bright red in contrast to the rusty and brutal exterior. The floor is made of 3500 kg of oyster shells, the origin of all Alaskan oil.\n\n\"Redrum\" is \"murder\" backwards. The designers intended to comment on the connection of oil, war and environment. Local media described the piece as \"a slap in the face to Alaskans\".\n\nPotemkin is an architectural park by Casagrande & Rintala for Kuramata village in Japan 2003. A steel made mix between a temple and machine. The work consists indoor and outdoor spaces for post-industrial meditation. Potemkin is commissioned by the Echigo-Tsumari Contemporary Art Triennial 2003.\n\n\"Potemkin stands as the Acropolis to be the post industrial temple to think of the connection between the modern man and nature. I see Potemkin as a cultivated junk yard situated between the ancient rice fields and the river with a straight axis to the Shinto temple.\"\n\nThe site is a former illegal dumping ground turned into a riverside park. The architecture of the park was drawn on site in 1:1 scale on snow by walking the lines with snow-shoes and then built up when the snow melted.\n\nThe park is made out of one inch thick Kawasaki steel and recycled urban and industrial waste. It is 130 meters long and 15 meters wide with a series of outdoor and indoor spaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42542243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42542243", "title": "Marguerite Lundgren", "text": "Marguerite Lundgren\n\nMarguerite Lundgren (born 5 October 1916 in London, d. 1 August 1983 in Hamburg, Germany) was a British/Swedish eurythmist and anthroposophist.\n\nMarguerite Lundgren was born to a Swedish father and English mother and during her childhood lived both in Sweden and England, being fluent in both languages. Through an aunt, who was one of the founders of the Wynstones School in Gloucestershire, she was able to attend the Michael Hall school, then in South London. This stimulated her interest in eurythmy, which she went on to study with Lieselotte Mann in England. In 1946, after completing her training, she joined the stage group at the. Goetheanum in Dornach, Switzerland, where her originality and talent were quickly spotted by the troupe leader, Marie Savitch. This led to a lifelong bond and common research between the two women.\n\nIn 1948, she was asked to return to England to take over the eurythmy school of Vera and Judy Compton-Burnett, where she came to know and work closely with Owen Barfield and Cecil Harwood, whom she married in 1953. Their cooperation led to her fundamental research in creating a eurythmic form specifically for the English language. For many years she taught and performed with the London School of Eurythmy, which she directed, and the London Stage Group. The work took her regularly to Scandinavia, North America and South Africa, where she did much to assist the development of eurythmy.\n\nThe last years of her life brought with them the death of her husband, Cecil Harwood, from which she never quite recovered, and the move of her eurythmy school from London to East Grinstead in Sussex, close to where they had lived for many years. She died in August 1983. The book \"Eurythmy and the Impulse of Dance\" written together with Cecil Harwood and Marjorie Raffé, records her research into the principles of eurythmy in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "50084038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50084038", "title": "Marilyn Anne (schooner)", "text": "Marilyn Anne (schooner)\n\nMarilyn Anne is a three-masted auxiliary schooner that was built in 1919 as Frem by her Danish owner. She was sold to Sweden in 1938 and later renamed Vestvåg. In 1958, she was sold to Denmark and renamed Vest. Following her sale to an American owner in 1968, she was renamed \"Marilyn Anne\". In 1977, she became a training ship for disadvantaged Danish children.\n\nAs built, the ship was long, with a beam of , a depth of , and a draught of . She was assessed at , .\n\n\"Frem\" was built by Erik B. Kromann at Marstal, Denmark and was initially operated by him. Her port of registry was Marstal and the Code Letters NWPH were allocated. In 1932, she was fitted with an auxiliary oil engine. She was reassessed as , . This was a 2-cylinder Single Cycle Single Action diesel engine, rated at 54nhp. It was made by A/S Tuxham, Copenhagen. In 1934, her Code Letters were changed to OUTB.\n\nIn 1939, \"Frem\" was sold to Janne Nielsen of Skårhamn, Sweden. Her port of registry was changed to Skårhamn. The Code Letters SEFW were allocated. In 1940, she was renamed \"Vestvåg\" and her Code Letters were changed to SFBI.\n\nIn 1958, \"Vestvåg\" was sold to a Danish owner. Her name was changed to \"Vest\". Her port of registry was Aalborg and the Code Letters OWLP were allocated. In 1968, \"Vest\" was sold to an American owner who changed her name to \"Marilyn Anne\" and set about restoring her. In 1977, he abandoned the project and she was sold to the Struer Municipality in 1978. Following completion of the restoration work, ownership of \"Marilyn Anne\" was transferred to a holding company owned by the Herning, Holstebro and Struer Municipalities. On 17 June 1996, Denmark issued a postage stamp depicting \"Marilyn Anne\". The ship now serves as a school ship for disadvantaged children.\n"}
{"id": "50238929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50238929", "title": "Mary Cecelia Allen", "text": "Mary Cecelia Allen\n\nMary Allen is a writer living in Iowa City, Iowa. Allen is an MFA graduate of the Iowa Writers' Workshop and published her memoir \"The Rooms of Heaven\" in 1999. She received an NEA grant in 2002.\n\nMary Allen was born in Northampton, Massachusetts. Because her mother had postpartum mental illness, Allen grew up in the home of a foster family. She received a Bachelor’s degree in English from the University of Massachusetts in 1976. She worked in publishing in Boston, at Little, Brown and Company, in the 1970s and ’80s, moved to Iowa City in 1986 to attend the Iowa Writers’ Workshop and received an MFA in 1988. Her memoir, The Rooms of Heaven, was published by Alfred A. Knopf and Vintage Books, she received an NEA grant for work on another literary memoir, Awake in the Dream House. She makes a living as a writing coach.\n\nMary Allen writes about spiritual and psychological healing. Her themes are love, addiction and codependency, the nature of life and death, and the ways our states of consciousness intersect with our experiences of reality. She has written about being the daughter of a mother with maternal mental illness and about healing through EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing Therapy). She has spoken and written widely about issues affecting writers, including the challenge of finding time to write as well as the spiritual gifts of writing. She has a blog called Harnessing Time, about making peace with time and learning how to use it as an asset instead of fighting with it like an enemy.\n"}
{"id": "3186969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3186969", "title": "Max Mason", "text": "Max Mason\n\nCharles Max Mason (October 26, 1877 – March 22, 1961), better known as Max Mason, was an American mathematician. Mason was president of the University of Chicago (1925–1928) and president of the Rockefeller Foundation (1929–1936).\n\nMason's mathematical research interests included differential equations, the calculus of variations, and electromagnetic theory.\n\n\n\nOn May 2, 1945 he appeared on Edgar Bergen's radio show to chat about the new observatory and trade jokes with Charlie McCarthy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8588148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588148", "title": "Moondance (magazine)", "text": "Moondance (magazine)\n\nMoondance is an online international women's literary, culture and art journal. The magazine began in 1996.\n\nSaid Editor-in-Chief Loretta Kemsley, \"My background in newspaper design was a good start for our fledgling ezine but so very different from the demands and opportunities of Internet publishing. With little experience to guide us, that first edition was an adventure unto itself. Some of our volunteers doubted we could accomplish this feat, even as we worked hard to meet our self imposed deadline: September, 1996. Moondance was coded for Internet browsers while reading a book on simplified HTML,\" \n\nJournalist Loretta Kemsley of Los Angeles, creator and publisher for the magazine, began her media career in the mid-1950s as a young horsewoman and stunt rider for cowboy star Gene Autry through Flying A Productions studios in Hollywood. In June 1954, Kemsley rode as a stunt double, at the age of eight, for Nancy Gilbert who played the young Calamity in the \"Buffalo Bill, Jr.\" NBC series directed by George Archainbaud, starring Dick Jones as Buffalo Bill, Jr., the Marshall of Wileyville, Texas. Forty more episodes were later co-produced by Autry for the children's western from 1954-1956.\n\n\"Moondance was an experiment without precedent when it began, but today is the role model for a variety of exciting new ezines. When we decided to publish Moondance, we searched the Internet for examples to emulate. None could be found. Starting from scratch, we used trial and error to devise the successful format which uses the best of print media design, combined with the expanded capabilities of online media, while remaining accessible to those with hardware and software limitations. Moondance is coded specifically for disabled access,\" said Kemsley about the magazine's creation.\n\nOnly three years after its beginning in 1999, \"Moondance\" received a UNESCO Web Prize Award, Category I (Free Themes). UNESCO - the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization was founded as a cultural wing of the United Nations in 1945. Created through the UNESCO prize for the promotion of the arts the UNESCO Web Prize Competition was awarded from 1997-2003 \"in recognition of the growing cultural and societal importance of the new information and communication technologies.\"\n\n\"In March, 1998, we were honored when Moondance was presented by Ida Miro Kiss, a Hungarian feminist and renowned speaker, as an example of women networking on the Internet at the UNESCO Inter-governmental Conference, Stockholm, Sweden,\" said Kemsley.\n\n\"Moondance\" is currently being used in many various university-level classroom curricula across the United States including University of Wisconsin–Madison, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, George Mason University and Akamai University of Hawaii among others. Mujeres University in Madrid, Spain has also used Moondance magazine in their English studies classroom curriculum since 1999. Today the American Political Science Association, a political science consortium of over 80 universities and higher education centers uses Moondance as a reference to enable a greater study and understanding of women's gender issues.\n\nPast writers for \"Moondance\" include noted women journalists, poets, authors and novelists. These include Fulbright scholar Lucinda Nelson Dhavan, Hurston/Wright Award winner Nnedi Okorafor-Mbachu, Sonia Pressman Fuentes the 2000 U.S. Maryland Women's Hall of Fame winner and founder of NOW - the National Organization for Women and 2003 ABA - American Book Award winner Daniela Giseffi.\n\n\"Moondance\" editorial standards stay close to the themes of focusing on the interests, lives and international culture of women. Sections for the magazine include: Best of Theme, Columns, Fiction, Non-Fiction, Inspirations, Poetry, Art and Reviews. Since its beginning Moondance neither sells nor takes any advertising monies. Genres include literary and art criticism. Articles reflect the diversity of interests of international readers. A creative connection between cultures and a meeting of mind and soul is the object.\n\nWomen's publication\n\nPublished bi-annually 1996-1997 / quarterly 1997-to present\n\n2006 Readership - approx 187,000 readers per issue\n\nReadership age: covers wide range (18–65 years of age)\n\nReadership interests: feminism, women and culture, women specific stories and women's literary history\n\n\"Moondance\" magazine chooses a \"Best of Theme\" writer among its sections for each of its quarterly editions. A Pushcart Prize nominee is also chosen annually from the collection of writers who submit material each year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9669951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9669951", "title": "Niel Immelman", "text": "Niel Immelman\n\nNiel Immelman (born 13 August 1944) is a South African classical pianist resident in the UK. He grew up in Jacobsdal and later in Bloemfontein.\n\nImmelman first received piano lessons from his mother Nettie Immelman. He subsequently studied at the Royal College of Music (RCM) with Cyril Smith. He was also a pupil of Ilona Kabos, Lamar Crowson, and Maria Curcio. Whilst still a student at the Royal College of Music, Bernard Haitink invited him to perform Rachmaninoff's \"Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini\" with the London Philharmonic Orchestra, as his professional debut.\n\nImmelman has made a speciality of Czech piano music, and has made commercial recordings of the piano works of Josef Suk and of Vítězslav Novak, for the Meridian label. His four CD recordings of the complete piano works of Suk was the first complete commercial recorded cycle.\n\nImmelman is currently on the piano faculty of the RCM. He was made a fellow of the RCM in 2000. He serves regularly as a jury member in various international piano competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2990593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2990593", "title": "Oliver Chris", "text": "Oliver Chris\n\nOliver Graham Chris (born 2 November 1978 in Tonbridge, Kent) is an English actor. He has appeared in a range of television series and TV films and on the stage, including theatrical productions in London's West End and Broadway in New York City.\n\nChris passed his Eleven plus exam and attended Tunbridge Wells Grammar School for Boys before moving to the Michael Hall Steiner School in his fourth year. He later attended the Central School of Speech and Drama. In 2005 he completed an evening class at Birkbeck College and was subsequently accepted for a degree course in history, politics and philosophy.\n\nChris has appeared in several comedy series, including \"The Office\", \"Green Wing\", \"According to Bex\", \"Nathan Barley\", \"The IT Crowd\", \"Rescue Me\" and \"Bluestone 42\".\n\nIn 2004, Chris re-wrote the lyrics to the Beatles' \"Let It Be\" to a song about the England football player Wayne Rooney and recorded it in collaboration with the actor Stephen Campbell Moore and a number of other actors and journalists. The song was reprised and re-recorded, with rewritten lyrics, for the 2006 Fifa World Cup and became a hit on YouTube, with 200,000 hits.\n\nChris has also narrated most of the \"Alex Rider\" series of audiobooks by Anthony Horowitz, although Dan Stevens replaced him as reader for \"Snakehead\", \"Crocodile Tears\" and \"Scorpia Rising\".\n\nIn early 2006, Chris played the role of Captain Leonard in \"Sharpe's Challenge\", starring Sean Bean, while 2007 has seen him in the TV comedy \"Bonkers\", written by Sally Wainwright as well as Petruchio in \"The Taming of the Shrew\" at the Wilton's Music Hall. In 2006 he also appeared as Christian in \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" at the Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester. He later appeared in Peter Hall's production of \"The Portrait of a Lady\". He made his West End debut in late 2008 in Lisa Kron's comedy, \"Well\". In 2010 he appeared alongside Judi Dench in Hall's production of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" at the Rose Theatre, Kingston.\n\nChris was also cast in Ben Miller's feature-length debut comedy film \"Huge\", which premiered in June 2010. 2011 has seen him appear in two episodes of \"Silent Witness\", whilst also playing one of the leading roles in the National Theatre production of \"One Man, Two Guvnors\" alongside James Corden. He appeared in three series of the BBC Three comedy \"Bluestone 42\", about a British bomb disposal detachment in Afghanistan. He also played Dr Richard Truscott in the ITV medical drama series \"Breathless\", set in the 1960s, which ran for one series from October 2013.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, Chris played Prince William in the play \"King Charles III\", appearing in the West End and on Broadway. In May 2017, he appeared in the same role in the BBC Two film adaptation.\n\nFebruary to May 2017 Chris was playing Orsino in a new production of Twelfth Night at the Royal National Theatre. He is due to play Friedrich Engels in Richard Bean and Clive Coleman's new play \"Young Marx\", the opening production at the Bridge Theatre in December 2017.\n\nMotherland (BBC series) Julia’s husband\n"}
{"id": "15616187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15616187", "title": "Olivia A. Davidson", "text": "Olivia A. Davidson\n\nOlivia America Davidson Washington (June 11, 1854 – May 9, 1889) was born free as Olivia America Davidson in Virginia. After her family moved to the free state of Ohio, she studied in common schools and later college. She became a teacher and educator.\n\nDavidson was hired by Booker T. Washington as a teacher and assistant principal of the Tuskegee Institute from 1881. In this role she also did fundraising and gave public speeches, especially about the education of African-American women. In 1886 she married Washington, the principal and a widower. She was his second wife; they had two sons together and reared his daughter by his first marriage. Olivia Washington died three years later of tuberculosis.\n\nOlivia America Davidson was born free on June 11, 1854, in Mercer County, Virginia, now Mercer County, West Virginia. Her mother was a free woman of color and her father Elias Davidson had been freed from slavery. He worked in agriculture. Under slavery law, children took the status of their mother. Olivia had at least two sisters and a brother; all were born free. When Olivia was still a child, her family left western Virginia because of its discriminatory treatment of free blacks. \n\nThey moved to Ironton, Ohio, as it was a free state. Some time after her father Elias died, the family moved to Albany, Ohio. Davidson continued to study at common schools. By 1870, she was living with her sister Mary and brother-in-law Noah Elliot in Gallipolis. Her sister, a dressmaker and milliner, relocated with her husband several times before they settled in the larger city of Columbus, Ohio.\n\nIn 1870, at the age of 16, Davidson began teaching in towns in Ohio, Mississippi, and Arkansas. In 1874, she became a sixth-grade teacher in the new Clay Street School in Memphis, Tennessee (now the now operated as the Booker T. Washington High School). Her sister Margaret was also a teacher here, and their brother Joseph also lived and worked in the city. Her principal instituted changes recommended by Davidson. While Olivia was in Memphis, her sister Margaret died. In 1878 their brother Joseph was murdered by the Ku Klux Klan, at a time of violence to suppress black voting. Davidson returned to Ohio shortly thereafter.\n\nThat year she enrolled as a senior at the Hampton Institute, now Hampton University, in Virginia. She did so well that she was one of the graduation speakers on May 22, 1879. From there, she attended the State Normal School at Framingham, Massachusetts (now Framingham State University), where she studied further to get a teaching degree. Davidson graduated on June 29, 1881 as one of six honor students. \n\nDavidson returned to Hampton to recover from a serious illness. She also began teaching a group of Native American men who had been enrolled there as students after being released as prisoners of war from a United States fort in Florida. They were warriors from Plains Tribes who had been captured in the Indian Wars.\n\nBooker T. Washington, the postgraduate speaker at Hampton, contacted Davidson, asking her to help him develop the new Tuskegee Institute. After recovering from her illness, she joined him on August 25, 1881 as a teacher and vice principal. She threw herself into the work despite her precarious health, becoming Washington's partner in building Tuskegee. His first wife, Fannie N. Smith, died in 1884.\n\nOn August 11, 1886, in Athens, Ohio, Davidson married the widower Washington. She served as stepmother to young Portia Washington, the child of Booker T.'s first marriage.\n\nIn 1886, Olivia Davidson Washington addressed the Alabama State Teachers' Association on the topic of \"How Shall We Make the Women of Our Race Stronger?,\" advocating that teachers strive to reach black girls as the \"hope of the race.\" During her time at Tuskegee, she also helped raise funds for the school, both locally and through her contacts in the North.\n\nHer first son, Booker T., Jr., was born on May 29, 1887. Their second son, Ernest Davidson Washington, was born February 6, 1889. Two days later, the Washingtons' house at Tuskegee burned down. Olivia Washington suffered exposure to the early morning cold and likely already had contracted tuberculosis (TB). Her health deteriorated and she died three months later of laryngeal TB on May 9, 1889, at Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nReproduced in Biography Resource Center. Farmington Hills, Mich.: Thomson Gale. 2008. \nhttp://galenet.galegroup.com/servlet/BioRC Document Number: K1623000473\n"}
{"id": "1584544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1584544", "title": "Open educational resources", "text": "Open educational resources\n\nOpen educational resources (OER) are freely accessible, openly licensed text, media, and other digital assets that are useful for teaching, learning, and assessing as well as for research purposes. There is no universal usage of open file formats in OER. \n\nThe term OER describes publicly accessible materials and resources for any user to use, re-mix, improve and redistribute under some licenses. \n\nThe development and promotion of open educational resources is often motivated by a desire to provide an alternate or enhanced \"educational paradigm\".\n\nThe idea of open educational resources (OER) has numerous working definitions. The term was firstly coined at UNESCO's 2002 Forum on Open Courseware and designates \"teaching, learning and research materials in any medium, digital or otherwise, that reside in the public domain or have been released under an open license that permits no-cost access, use, adaptation and redistribution by others with no or limited restrictions. Open licensing is built within the existing framework of intellectual property rights as defined by relevant international conventions and respects the authorship of the work\". Often cited is the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation term which defines OER as:\n\nteaching, learning, and research resources that reside in the public domain or have been released under an intellectual property license that permits their free use and re-purposing by others. Open educational resources include full courses, course materials, modules, textbooks, streaming videos, tests, software, and any other tools, materials, or techniques used to support access to knowledge.\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines OER as: \"digitised materials offered freely and openly for educators, students, and self-learners to use and reuse for teaching, learning, and research. OER includes learning content, software tools to develop, use, and distribute content, and implementation resources such as open licences\". (This is the definition cited by Wikipedia's sister project, Wikiversity.) By way of comparison, the Commonwealth of Learning \"has adopted the widest definition of Open Educational Resources (OER) as 'materials offered freely and openly to use and adapt for teaching, learning, development and research'\". The WikiEducator project suggests that OER refers \"to educational resources (lesson plans, quizzes, syllabi, instructional modules, simulations, etc.) that are freely available for use, reuse, adaptation, and sharing'.\n\nThe above definitions expose some of the tensions that exist with OER:\n\nThese definitions also have common elements, namely they all:\nGiven the diversity of users, creators and sponsors of open educational resources, it is not surprising to find a variety of use cases and requirements. For this reason, it may be as helpful to consider the differences between descriptions of open educational resources as it is to consider the descriptions themselves. One of several tensions in reaching a consensus description of OER (as found in the above definitions) is whether there should be explicit emphasis placed on specific technologies. For example, a video can be openly licensed and freely used without being a \"streaming\" video. A book can be openly licensed and freely used without being an \"electronic\" document. This technologically driven tension is deeply bound up with the discourse of open-source licensing. For more, see Licensing and Types of OER later in this article.\n\nThere is also a tension between entities which find value in quantifying usage of OER and those which see such metrics as themselves being irrelevant to free and open resources. Those requiring metrics associated with OER are often those with economic investment in the technologies needed to access or provide electronic OER, those with economic interests potentially threatened by OER, or those requiring justification for the costs of implementing and maintaining the infrastructure or access to the freely available OER. While a semantic distinction can be made delineating the technologies used to access and host learning content from the content itself, these technologies are generally accepted as part of the collective of open educational resources.\n\nSince OER are intended to be available for a variety of educational purposes, \"most\" organizations using OER neither award degrees nor provide academic or administrative support to students seeking college credits towards a diploma from a degree granting accredited institution. In open education, there is an emerging effort by some accredited institutions to offer free certifications, or achievement badges, to document and acknowledge the accomplishments of participants.\n\nIn order for educational resources to be OER, they must have an open license. Many educational resources made available on the Internet are geared to allowing online access to digitised educational content, but the materials themselves are restrictively licensed. Thus, they are not OER. Often, this is not intentional. Most educators are not familiar with copyright law in their own jurisdictions, never mind internationally. International law and national laws of nearly all nations, and certainly of those who have signed onto the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), restrict all content under strict copyright (unless the copyright owner specifically releases it under an open license). The Creative Commons license is the most widely used licensing framework internationally used for OER.\n\nThe term learning object was coined in 1994 by Wayne Hodgins and quickly gained currency among educators and instructional designers, popularizing the idea that digital materials can be designed to allow easy reuse in a wide range of teaching and learning situations.\n\nThe OER movement originated from developments in open and distance learning (ODL) and in the wider context of a culture of open knowledge, open source, free sharing and peer collaboration, which emerged in the late 20th century. OER and Free/Libre Open Source Software (FLOSS), for instance, have many aspects in common, a connection first established in 1998 by David Wiley who coined the term open content and introduced the concept by analogy with open source. Richard Baraniuk made the same connection independently in 1999 with the founding of Connexions (now called OpenStax_CNX).\n\nThe MIT OpenCourseWare project is credited for having sparked a global Open Educational Resources Movement after announcing in 2001 that it was going to put MIT's entire course catalog online and launching this project in 2002. In a first manifestation of this movement, MIT entered a partnership with Utah State University, where assistant professor of instructional technology David Wiley set up a distributed peer support network for the OCW's content through voluntary, self-organizing communities of interest.\n\nThe term \"open educational resources\" was first adopted at UNESCO's 2002 Forum on the Impact of Open Courseware for Higher Education in Developing Countries.\n\nIn 2005 OECD's Centre for Educational Research and Innovation (CERI) launched a 20-month study to analyse and map the scale and scope of initiatives regarding \"open educational resources\" in terms of their purpose, content, and funding. The report \"Giving Knowledge for Free: The Emergence of Open Educational Resources\", published in May 2007, is the main output of the project, which involved a number of expert meetings in 2006.\n\nIn September 2007, the Open Society Institute and the Shuttleworth Foundation convened a meeting in Cape Town to which thirty leading proponents of open education were invited to collaborate on the text of a manifesto. The Cape Town Open Education Declaration was released on 22 January 2008, urging governments and publishers to make publicly funded educational materials available at no charge via the internet.\n\nThe global movement for OER culminated at the 1st World OER Congress convened in Paris on 20–22 June 2012 by UNESCO, COL and other partners. The resulting Paris OER Declaration (2012) reaffirmed the shared commitment of international organizations, governments, and institutions to promoting the open licensing and free sharing of publicly funded content, the development of national policies and strategies on OER, capacity-building, and open research. In 2018, the 2nd World OER Congress in Ljubljana, Slovenia, was co-organized by UNESCO and the Government of Slovenia. The 500 experts and national delegates from 111 countries adopted the Ljubljana OER Action Plan. It recommends 41 actions to mainstream open-licensed resources to achieve the 2030 Sustainable Development Goal 4 on “quality and lifelong education\". \n\nAn historical antecedent to consider is the pedagogy of artist Joseph Beuys and the founding of the Free International University for Creativity and Interdisciplinary Research in 1973. After co-creating with his students, in 1967, the German Student Party, Beuys was dismissed from his teaching post in 1972 at the Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf. The institution did not approve of the fact that he permitted 50 students who had been rejected from admission to study with him. The Free University became increasingly involved in political and radical actions calling for a revitalization and restructuring of educational systems.\n\nOpen educational resources often involve issues relating to intellectual property rights. Traditional educational materials, such as textbooks, are protected under conventional copyright terms. However, alternative and more flexible licensing options have become available as a result of the work of Creative Commons, a non-profit organization that provides ready-made licensing agreements that are less restrictive than the \"all rights reserved\" terms of standard international copyright. These new options have become a \"critical infrastructure service for the OER movement.\" Another license, typically used by developers of OER software, is the GNU General Public License from the free and open-source software (FOSS) community. Open licensing allows uses of the materials that would not be easily permitted under copyright alone.\n\nTypes of open educational resources include: full courses, course materials, modules, learning objects, open textbooks, openly licensed (often streamed) videos, tests, software, and other tools, materials, or techniques used to support access to knowledge. OER may be freely and openly available static resources, dynamic resources which change over time in the course of having knowledge seekers interacting with and updating them (such as this Wikipedia article), or a course or module with a combination of these resources.\n\nOpen educational resources policies are principles or tenets adopted by governing bodies in support of the use of open content and practices in educational institutions. Many of these policies require publicly funded resources be openly licensed. Such policies are emerging increasingly at the country, state/province and more local level.\n\nCreative Commons hosts an open educational resources policy registry lists 95 current and proposed open education policies from around the world.\n\nCreative Commons and multiple other open organizations launched the Open Policy Network to foster the creation, adoption and implementation of open policies and practices that advance the public good by supporting open policy advocates, organizations and policy makers, connecting open policy opportunities with assistance, and sharing open policy information.\n\nOne of the most frequently cited benefits of OER is their potential to reduce costs. While OER seem well placed to bring down total expenditures, they are not cost-free. New OER can be assembled or simply reused or repurposed from existing open resources. This is a primary strength of OER and, as such, can produce major cost savings. OER need not be created from scratch. On the other hand, there are some costs in the assembly and adaptation process. And some OER must be created and produced originally at some time. While OER must be hosted and disseminated, and some require funding, OER development can take different routes, such as creation, adoption, adaptation and curation.\n\nEach of these models provides different cost structure and degree of cost-efficiency. Upfront costs in developing the OER infrastructure can be expensive, such as building the OER infrastructure. Butcher and Hoosen noted that “a key argument put forward by those who have written about the potential benefits of OER relates to its potential for saving cost or, at least, creating significant economic efficiencies. However, to date there has been limited presentation of concrete data to back up this assertion, which reduces the effectiveness of such arguments and opens the OER movement to justified academic criticism.”\n\nA large part of the early work on open educational resources was funded by universities and foundations such as the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, which was the main financial supporter of open educational resources in the early years and has spent more than $110 million in the 2002 to 2010 period, of which more than $14 million went to MIT. The Shuttleworth Foundation, which focuses on projects concerning collaborative content creation, has contributed as well. With the British government contributing £5.7m, institutional support has also been provided by the UK funding bodies JISC and HEFCE.\n\nUNESCO is taking a leading role in \"making countries aware of the potential of OER.\" The organisation has instigated debate on how to apply OERs in practice and chaired vivid discussions on this matter through its International Institute of Educational Planning (IIEP). Believing that OERs can widen access to quality education, particularly when shared by many countries and higher education institutions, UNESCO also champions OERs as a means of promoting access, equity and quality in the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2012 the Paris OER Declaration was approved during the 2012 OER World Congress held at UNESCO's headquarters in Paris.\n\nA parallel initiative, OpenStax CNX (formerly Connexions), came out of Rice University starting in 1999. In the beginning, the Connexions project focused on creating an open repository of user-generated content. In contrast to the OCW projects, content licenses are required to be open under a Creative Commons Attribution International 4.0 (CC BY) license. The hallmark of Connexions is the use of a custom XML format CNXML, designed to aid and enable mixing and reuse of the content.\n\nIn 2012, OpenStax was created from the basis of the Connexions project. In contrast to user-generated content libraries, OpenStax hires subject matter experts to create college-level textbooks that are peer-reviewed, openly licensed, and available online for free. Like the content in OpenStax CNX, OpenStax books are available under Creative Commons CC BY licenses that allow users to reuse, remix, and redistribute content as long as they provide attribution. OpenStax's stated mission is to create professional grade textbooks for the highest-enrollment undergraduate college courses that are the same quality as traditional textbooks, but are adaptable and available free to students.\n\nOther initiatives derived from MIT OpenCourseWare are China Open Resources for Education and OpenCourseWare in Japan. The OpenCourseWare Consortium, founded in 2005 to extend the reach and impact of open course materials and foster new open course materials, counted more than 200 member institutions from around the world in 2009.\n\nOER Africa, an initiative established by the South African Institute for Distance Education (Saide) to play a leading role in driving the development and use of OER across all education sectors on the African continent. The OER4Schools project focusses on the use of Open Educational Resources in teacher education in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nWikiwijs (the Netherlands), was a program intended to promote the use of open educational resources (OER) in the Dutch education sector;\n\nThe Open educational resources programme (phases one and two) (United Kingdom), funded by HEFCE, the UK Higher Education Academy and Jisc, which has supported pilot projects and activities around the open release of learning resources, for free use and repurposing worldwide.\n\nIn 2003, the ownership of Wikipedia and Wiktionary projects was transferred to the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit charitable organization whose goal is to collecting and developing free educational content and to disseminate it effectively and globally. Wikipedia ranks in the top-ten most visited websites worldwide since 2007.\n\nOER Commons was spearheaded in 2007 by ISKME, a nonprofit education research institute dedicated to innovation in open education content and practices, as a way to aggregate, share, and promote open educational resources to educators, administrators, parents, and students. OER Commons also provides educators tools to align OER to the Common Core State Standards; to evaluate the quality of OER to OER Rubrics; and to contribute and share OERs with other teachers and learners worldwide. To further promote the sharing of these resources among educators, in 2008 ISKME launched the OER Commons Teacher Training Initiative, which focuses on advancing open educational practices and on building opportunities for systemic change in teaching and learning.\n\nOne of the first OER resources for K-12 education is Curriki. A nonprofit organization, Curriki provides an Internet site for open source curriculum (OSC) development, to provide universal access to free curricula and instructional materials for students up to the age of 18 (K-12). By applying the open source process to education, Curriki empowers educational professionals to become an active community in the creation of good curricula. Kim Jones serves as Curriki's Executive Director.\n\nIn August 2006 WikiEducator was launched to provide a venue for planning education projects built on OER, creating and promoting open education resources (OERs), and networking towards funding proposals. Its Wikieducator's Learning4Content project builds skills in the use of MediaWiki and related free software technologies for mass collaboration in the authoring of free content and claims to be the world's largest wiki training project for education. By 30 June 2009 the project facilitated 86 workshops training 3,001 educators from 113 different countries.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2007, as a Transversal Action under the European eLearning Programme, the Open e-Learning Content Observatory Services (OLCOS) project carries out a set of activities that aim at fostering the creation, sharing and re-use of Open Educational Resources (OER) in Europe and beyond. The main result of OLCOS was a Roadmap, in order to provide decision makers with an overview\nof current and likely future developments in OER and recommendations on how various\nchallenges in OER could be addressed.\n\nPeer production has also been utilized in producing collaborative open education resources (OERs). Writing Commons, an international open textbook spearheaded by Joe Moxley at the University of South Florida, has evolved from a print textbook into a crowd-sourced resource for college writers around the world. Massive open online course (MOOC) platforms have also generated interest in building online eBooks. The Cultivating Change Community (CCMOOC) at the University of Minnesota is one such project founded entirely on a grassroots model to generate content. In 10 weeks, 150 authors contributed more than 50 chapters to the CCMOOC eBook and companion site.\n\nIn 2011-12, academicians from the University of Mumbai, India created an OER Portal with free resources on Micro Economics, Macro Economics, and Soft Skills available for global learners.\n\nAnother project is the Free Education Initiative from the Saylor Foundation, which is currently more than 80% of the way towards its initial goal of providing 241 college-level courses across 13 subject areas. The Saylor Foundation makes use of university and college faculty members and subject experts to assist in this process, as well as to provide peer review of each course to ensure its quality. The foundation also supports the creation of new openly licensed materials where they are not already available as well as through its Open Textbook Challenge.\n\nIn 2010 the University of Birmingham and the London School of Economics worked together on the HEA and JISC funded DELILA project, the main aim of the project was to release a small sample of open educational resources to support embedding digital and information literacy education into institutional teacher training courses accredited by the HEA including PGCerts and other CPD courses. One of the main barriers that the project found to sharing resources in information literacy was copyright that belonged to commercial database providers\n\nIn 2006, the African Virtual University (AVU) released 73 modules of its Teacher Education Programs as open education resources to make the courses freely available for all. In 2010, the AVU developed the OER Repository which has contributed to increase the number of Africans that use, contextualize, share and disseminate the existing as well as future academic content. The online portal serves as a platform where the 219 modules of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, ICT in education, and teacher education professional courses are published. The modules are available in three different languages English, French, and Portuguese, making the AVU the leading African institution in providing and using open education resources\n\nIn August 2013, Tidewater Community College become the first college in the U.S. to create an Associate of Science degree based entirely on openly licensed content the \"Z-Degree\". The combined efforts of a 13-member faculty team, college staff and administration culminated when students enrolled in the first \"z-courses\" which are based solely on OER. The goals of this initiative were twofold: 1) to improve student success, and 2) to increase instructor effectiveness. Courses were stripped down to the Learning Outcomes and rebuilt using openly licensed content, reviewed and selected by the faculty developer based on its ability to facilitate student achievement of the objectives. The 21 z-courses that make up an associate of science degree in business administration were launched simultaneously across four campus locations. TCC is the 11th largest public two-year college in the nation, enrolling nearly 47,000 students annually.\n\nDuring this same time period from 2013-2014, Northern Virginia Community College (NOVA) also created 2 zero cost OER degree pathways: one an associate's degree in General Studies, the other an associate's degree in Social Science. One of the largest community colleges in the nation, NOVA serves around 75,000 students across six campuses. The Extended Learning Institute (ELI) is the centralized online learning hub for the entire college. Dr. Wm. Preston Davis, Director of Instructional services at ELI, led this OER initiative called the OER-Based General Education Project. Davis led the ELI team of faculty, instructional designers and librarians on the project to create what NOVA calls \"digital open\" courses. During the planning phase, the team was careful to select core, high-enrollment courses that could impact as many students as possible, regardless of specific course of study. At the same time, the team looked beyond individual courses to create depth and quality around full pathways for students to earn an entire degree. Currently, 20% of students at NOVA have taken an OER course and enrollment in these courses is rising. From Fall 2013 to Fall 2016, more than 15,000 students have enrolled in NOVA OER courses yielding textbook cost savings of over 2 million dollars over the three-year period. Currently, NOVA is working to add a third OER degree pathway in Liberal Arts. \n\nNordic OER is a Nordic network to promote open education and collaboration amongst stakeholders in all educational sectors. The network has members from all Nordic countries and facilitates discourse and dialogue on open education but also participates in projects and development programs. The network is supported by the Nordic OER project co-funded by Nordplus.\n\nIn Norway the Norwegian Digital Learning Arena (NDLA) is a joint county enterprise offering open digital learning resources for upper secondary education. In addition to being a compilation of open educational resources, NDLA provides a range of other online tools for sharing and cooperation. At project startup in 2006, increased volume and diversity were seen as significant conditions for the introduction of free learning material in upper secondary education. The incentive was an amendment imposing the counties to provide free educational material, in print as well as digital, including digital hardware.\n\nIn Sweden there is a growing interest in open publication and the sharing of educational resources but the pace of development is still slow. There are many questions to be dealt with in this area; for universities, academic management and teaching staff. Teachers in all educational sectors require support and guidance to be able to use OER pedagogically and with quality in focus. To realize the full potential of OER for students' learning it is not enough to make patchwork use of OER resources have to be put into context. Valuable teacher time should be used for contextual work and not simply for the creation of content. The aim of the project OER for learning OERSweden is to stimulate an open discussion about collaboration in infrastructural questions regarding open online knowledge sharing. A network of ten universities led by Karlstad University will arrange a series of open webinars during the project period focusing on the use and production of open educational resources. A virtual platform for Swedish OER initiatives and resources will also be developed. The project intends to focus in particular on how OER affects teacher trainers and decision makers. The objectives of the project are: To increase the level of national collaboration between universities and educational organisations in the use and production of OER, To find effective online methods to support teachers and students, in terms of quality, technology and retrievability of OER, To raise awareness for the potential of webinars as a tool for open online learning, To increase the level of collaboration between universities' support functions and foster national resource sharing, with a base in modern library and educational technology units, and To contribute to the creation of a national university structure for tagging, distribution and storage of OER.\n\nFounded in 2007, the CK-12 Foundation is a California-based non-profit organization whose stated mission is to reduce the cost of, and increase access to, K-12 education in the United States and worldwide. CK-12 provides free and fully customizable K-12 open educational resources aligned to state curriculum standards and tailored to meet student and teacher needs. The foundation's tools are used by 38,000 schools in the US, and additional international schools.\n\nLATIn Project brings a Collaborative Open Textbook Initiative for Higher Education tailored specifically for Latin America. This initiative encourages and supports local professors and authors to contribute with individual sections or chapters that could be assembled into customized books by the whole community. The created books are freely available to the students in an electronic format or could be legally printed at low cost because there is no license or fees to be paid for their distribution, since all they are released as OER with a Creative Commons CC-BY-SA license. This solution also contributes to the creation of customized textbooks where each professor could select the sections appropriate for their courses or could freely adapt existing sections to their needs. Also, the local professors will be the sink and source of the knowledge, contextualized to the Latin American Higher Education system.\n\nIn 2014, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation started funding the establishment of an OER World Map that documents OER initiatives around the world. Since 2015, the hbz and graphthinking GmbH develop the service with funding by the Hewlett Foundation at https://oerworldmap.org. The first version of the website was launched in March 2015 and the website is continuously developing. The OER World Map invites people to enter a personal profile as well to add their organization, OER project or service to the database.\n\nIn March 2015, Eliademy.com launched the crowdsourcing of OER courses under CC licence. The platform expects to collect 5000 courses during the first year that can be reused by teachers worldwide.\n\nIn 2015, the University of Idaho Doceo Center launched open course content for K-12 schools, with the purpose of improving awareness of OER among K-12 educators. This was shortly followed by an Open Textbook Crash Course, which provides K-12 educators with basic knowledge about copyright, open licensing, and attribution. Results of these projects have been used to inform research into how to support K-12 educator OER adoption literacies and the diffusion of open practices.\n\nIn 2015, the MGH Institute of Health Professions, with help from an Institute of Museum and Library Services Grant (#SP-02-14-0), launched the Open Access Course Reserves. With the idea that many college level courses rely on more than a single textbook to deliver information to students, the OACR is inspired by library courses reserves in that it supplies entire reading lists for typical courses. Faculty can find, create, and share reading lists of open access materials.\n\nToday, OER initiatives across the United States rely on individual college and university librarians to curate resources into lists on library content management systems called LibGuides. Find OER repositories by discipline through the use of an individualized LibGuide such as the one found here from Indian River State College, [https://irsc.libguides.com/openeducationalresources <nowiki>[1]</nowiki>].\n\nHigh hopes have been voiced for OERs to alleviate the digital divide between the global North and the global South, and to make a contribution to the development of less advanced economies.\n\n\nWith the advent of growing international awareness and implementation of open educational resources, a global OER logo was adopted for use in multiple languages by UNESCO. The design of the Global OER logo creates a common global visual idea, representing \"subtle and explicit representations of the subjects and goals of OER\". Its full explanation and recommendation of use is available from UNESCO.\n\nThe OER movement has been accused of insularity and failure to connect globally: \"OERs will not be able to help countries reach their educational goals unless awareness of their power and potential can rapidly be expanded beyond the communities of interest that they have already attracted.\"\n\nMore fundamentally, doubts were cast on the altruistic motives typically claimed by OERs. The project itself was accused of imperialism because the economic, political, and cultural preferences of highly developed countries determine the creation and dissemination of knowledge that can be used by less-developed countries and may be a self-serving imposition.\n\nTo counter the general dominance of OER from the developed countries, the Research on OER for development (ROER4D) research project, aims to study how OER can be produced in the global south (developing countries) which can meet the local needs of the institutions and people. It seeks to understand in what ways, and under what circumstances can the adoption of OER address the increasing demand for accessible, relevant, high-quality and affordable post-secondary education in the Global South.\n\nWithin the open educational resources movement, the concept of OER is active. Consider, for example, the conceptions of gratis versus libre knowledge as found in the discourse about massive open online courses, which may offer free courses but charge for end-of-course awards or course verification certificates from commercial entities. A second example of essentially contested ideas in OER can be found in the usage of different OER logos which can be interpreted as indicating more or less allegiance to the notion of OER as a global movement.\n\nStephen Downes has argued that, from a connectivist perspective, the production of OER is ironic because \"in the final analysis, we cannot produce knowledge for people. Period. The people who are benefiting from these open education resource initiatives are the people who are producing these resources.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39418600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39418600", "title": "Oslo breakfast", "text": "Oslo breakfast\n\nThe Oslo breakfast was a type of uncooked school meal developed in the 1920s and rolled out as a free universal provision for Oslo school children in 1932. It typically consisted of bread, cheese, milk, half an apple and half an orange.\n\nThe original Norwegian name for the meal was \"Oslofrokosten\". The Oslo Breakfast had been designed by professor Carl Schiøtz to be as healthy as possible, with widely reported studies suggesting it delivered excellent results for the children's long-term health. During the 1930s the \"Oslo breakfast\" became famous and was copied by programs in Scandinavia, Europe, and the wider world. Many of these initiatives were small scale however, sometimes restricted to just a single school. By the late 1950s the provision of Oslo breakfasts by schools had largely ceased; sometimes they were replaced by more popular hot meal provision, or sometimes just dropped altogether as rising prosperity meant the provision of free school meals was seen as less necessary.\n\nWhile there was some variation in the meal, its typical ingredients included:\n\nExtra ingredients might include slices of raw uncooked vegetable, such as carrots or swedes. Between autumn and spring, a dose of cod liver oil could be included.\n\nThe earliest known modern advocate for school dinners was Count Rumford, who oversaw a program to feed and educate children in late 18th-century Germany. \n\nOslo, or Christiana as it was then known, began to provide midday hot school meals in 1897. These meals were criticized by food scientists such as Axel Holst from as early as 1909 for not being nutritious. In the 1920s, there was still considerable poverty in Norway, including in Oslo, leading to poor nutrition. Carl Schiøtz designed the \"Oslo breakfast\" using the best scientific knowledge available at the time to make it nutritious, and began advocating for it to replace the traditional hot meal from about 1927. He later published results of experiments which found that when fed on the breakfast instead of the hot meal, the often-undernourished Oslo school children would gain more weight. As well as being a professor, Schiøtz was also a senior official in the Oslo municipal authorities, which helped him achieve the practical implementation of his ideas. By 1932, the city was providing the Oslo breakfast to all primary school children. Later older children were also given the meal. It was provided free of charge to all, to prevent poor children from being stigmatized if they had to apply to get it at no cost.\n\nThe Oslo breakfast was the most famous of a number of similar worldwide developments in the 1920s and 1930s, for governmental and educational authorities to provide school children with more nutritious food. Perhaps the second most famous example was Lord Boyd-Orr's work in Scotland, which showed the benefits of giving school children free milk – this led to universal school milk provision across Scotland and later the whole of Great Britain. \n\nFrom the 1930s to 1950s, programs based on the Oslo breakfast soon spread to other Norwegian cities, across Scandinavia, the rest of Europe, and to the wider world, including countries like Australia and Canada. As an example of the positive reports from trials of the breakfast, Jack Drummond of London University said that after 130 poor children had been fed on the breakfast, effects had been \"remarkable\". The children had lost the poor skin conditions common at the time, and had enjoyed a 25% gain in height over those not having the breakfast.\n\nThe worldwide popularity of the Oslo breakfast reached its peak around the mid-1950s, and then began to decline. In some areas it had been introduced as a supplementary meal to school lunch, not as a replacement as had originally been the case in Oslo. Schools found that running two meal programs reduced their teaching time, and chose to eliminate the breakfast rather than the more popular lunch. In the late 1950s the Oslo breakfast ceased to be provided in its home country: With Norway now much more prosperous, authorities saw no need to continue to provide any form of free school meal. Norwegian parents took over, providing a packed lunch with similar ingredients to the original breakfast.\n\nBritish food writer Marguerite Patten refers to the Oslo breakfast as a light alternative to the traditional cooked breakfast, in a 1955 book aimed at \"brides and beginners\". In this context it is a meal at home, resembling a savoury Continental breakfast.\n\n"}
{"id": "56877515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56877515", "title": "Personk", "text": "Personk\n\nPersonk is a 1978 video game, and the debut work of Tom Snyder, who would later release many educational series under Tom Snyder Productions.\n\nSnyder is an educator and video game developer. Snyder, who had a master's degree in teaching, attained a teaching job in the 1970s and eventually began thinking about teaching aids.\n\nIn 1978, Snyder had a meeting arranged with the head of game acquisitions at Parker Bros. He hoped to present a wood-wire-string contraption named \"Personk\", that was a simplified model of a computer. Despite having planned the meeting for months, constantly redesigning the game and putting considerable time and money into the project, he went to the meeting on the wrong date and lost the opportunity.\n\nThis event gave Snyder a creative burst of energy; within the week he had purchased a microcomputer, taught himself to program, and transformed the three-dimensional \"Personk\" into a piece of software for children with the assistance of a Radio Shack Model 1.\n\nHis first innovation, the game turned into an experiment that foreshadowed the rest of his career. Snyder would immediately follow the game with a series of educational titles collectively referred to as The Search Series.\n"}
{"id": "13611524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13611524", "title": "Premier's Reading Challenge", "text": "Premier's Reading Challenge\n\nThe Premier's Reading Challenge is a literacy initiative developed by Australian state governments. It is set not as a competitive event, but rather as an individual challenge to each student, as well as to promote a love of reading books. The challenge is run in New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, and Victoria. In Western Australia, a similar program called the Premier's Summer Reading Challenge was cancelled in 2014. Tasmania's Labor government joined the other states in 2008.\n\nThe Premier's Reading Challenge in South Australia, launched by Premier Mike Rann (2002 to 2011) has one of the highest participation rates in the world for reading challenges. It has been embraced by more than 95% of public, private and religious schools.\n\nThe guidelines for the program in each state differ slightly, but students must generally read a minimum of books within a certain number of books, within a certain amount of time. In some states, these books must be a combination of personal choice books and books from a pre-selected list of approved literature.\n\nIn South Australia the Premier's Reading Challenge involves students aged between 5 and 14 in reading a minimum of 12 books (but often many more) upon which they are tested for comprehension. At the end of their first year in the Challenge successful students receive a certificate signed by the Premier. At the end of the second year they receive a bronze medal. Then, in subsequent years, silver, gold, \"legend\" and \"hall of fame\". Top sports stars, celebrities and children's authors are appointed Premier's Reading Challenge Ambassadors and visit schools to promote the program and read to students. Former Premier Mike Rann, who proposed the Ambassadors and medal components of the scheme, said the medals and end of year medal ceremonies at schools contributed to the success of the program. \"At first the younger children love the idea of the medals but then they fall in love with the books\", Rann said.\n\nThe NSW Premier's Reading Challenge has been used at Mary Brooksbank School, to help give the pupils with intellectual difficulties as many educational opportunities as are possible. The 50 students which attend the school have all successfully completed the challenge in two consecutive years. Many of the students cannot read independently, and so the books on the list were read to them by the teachers.\n\nIn 2005, the Victorian Premier's Reading Challenge attracted over 130,000 students, with 60,000 of them meeting the requirements for the award by reading 12 books in the set time. In six months, over 1,000,000 books were read by the students.\n\nThe \"Sun-Herald\" provided an online section of its website which provides links to articles which can be used as part of the personal choices reading by students in the New South Wales Reading Challenge.\n\n"}
{"id": "9073648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9073648", "title": "Reference software", "text": "Reference software\n\nReference software is software which emulates and expands upon print reference forms including the dictionary, translation dictionary, encyclopaedia, thesaurus, and atlas. Like print references, reference software can either be general or specific to a domain, and often includes maps and illustrations, as well as bibliography and statistics. Reference software may include multimedia content including animations, audio, and video, which further illustrate a concept. Well designed reference software improves upon the navigability of print references, through the use of search functionality and hyperlinks.\n\nMany dictionaries and encyclopedias rushed into CD-ROM editions soon after the widespread introduction of the CD-ROM to home computers. A second major development occurred as the internet also became widely available in homes, with reference works becoming available online as well. The conversion of previously print-only reference materials to electronic format marked a major change to the marketing and accessibility of such works. A striking case study is that of the venerable Encyclopædia Britannica, which was previously only available at prices of USD 1500 and higher, restricting it to the better libraries and the wealthy. Today, the Encyclopædia Britannica and World Book Encyclopedia retail in electronic format for around 50 USD, with cheaper OEM versions sometimes bundled with new computers. Such dramatic changes brought conventionally restricted knowledge repositories to the fingertips of an almost universal audience in a period of less than 11 years. The opportunities brought by new media enticed new competitors into the reference software market. One of the earliest and most well-known was Microsoft Encarta, first introduced on CD-ROM and then also moving online along with other major reference works. In the dictionaries market, one of the more prolific brands was Merriam-Webster, which released CD-ROM and then online versions of English dictionaries, thesauri and foreign language dictionaries. Since 2010, reference materials have begun to appear as apps on Smartphones. In the field of English as a foreign or second language, this is seen as an interesting pedagogical development and is the subject of much discussion , as language learners increasingly abandon print dictionaries for online editions and apps like the one produced by Macmillan Education. A list of online dictionaries is maintained under \"dictionaries\". Wikipedia and its offspins (such as Wiktionary) marked a new departure in educational reference software. Previous encyclopedias and dictionaries had compiled their contents on the basis of invited and closed teams of specialists. The Wiki concept allowed anyone and everyone to join in creating and editing an online set of reference works.\n\n"}
{"id": "3726671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3726671", "title": "Robert C. Michelson", "text": "Robert C. Michelson\n\nRobert C. Michelson (born 1951) is an American engineer and academic widely known for inventing the entomopter, a biologically inspired flapping-winged aerial robot, and for having established the International Aerial Robotics Competition. He has received degrees in electrical engineering from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and the Georgia Institute of Technology. Michelson's professional career began at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory where he worked on radar-based ocean surveillance systems. He later became a member of the research faculty at the Georgia Institute of Technology. At the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) he was involved in full-time research, directing over 30 major research programs.\n\nHe is the author of three U.S. patents and over 90 journal papers, book chapters and reports. Michelson also developed classes in avionics and taught in the School of Aerospace Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology until his retirement from the University System of Georgia in 2004. Michelson is the recipient of the 1998 AUVSI Pioneer Award and the 2001 Pirelli Award for the diffusion of scientific culture as well as the first \"Top Pirelli Prize\".\n\nDuring the 1990s, he created a tax-exempt corporation to apply high tech solutions to modern archeology and has organized a number of archeological expeditions into eastern Anatolia. He now heads the engineering consulting company, Millennial Vision, LLC. Since the mid-1990s, Michelson's work has concentrated on biologically inspired micro air vehicle design. Michelson is certified in various fields including amateur radio, SCUBA diving, experimental aircraft design/mechanics, and general contracting for home building.\n\nMichelson was born in 1951 in Washington D.C., the only son of Carroll and Evelyn Michelson, and is related to Christian Michelsen, the first Prime Minister of Norway. Michelson attended the Burgundy Farm Country Day School during the sixth through eighth grades where he developed an appreciation for botany and ornithology. While at Fort Hunt High School he was President of the Fort Hunt Amateur Rocket Club which built large (2m x 5 cm) instrumented solid fuel rockets that were launched at the Camp Pickett artillery range in Blackstone, Virginia.\nMichelson spent sixth through eighth grade at the Burgundy Farm Country Day School and later graduated from Fort Hunt High School in 1969. He graduated from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in 1973 and the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1974 with degrees in Electrical Engineering.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1973 Michelson was a research engineer working on aerospace radar systems at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory in Washington D.C. He spent the next 30 years in various engineering and management capacities within the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, Georgia. During the 1970s and 1980s Michelson primarily developed radar signal processing and control hardware, but was also interested in the automation of remote sensing systems ranging from the tracking of endangered species to the creation of realistic soldier training scenarios and simulation and testing of foreign military radar assets. In the late 1980s he became Head of the Georgia Tech Research Institute's Technology Development Division and his interests turned to unmanned aerial vehicle systems as a fusion of autonomy, information technology, and aeronautics. In particular, \"aerial robotics\" (a term he coined in 1990 to represent the infusion of cognition into unmanned aerial vehicles) dominated his research for the next two decades. Since the mid-1990s, Michelson's work has concentrated on biologically inspired micro air vehicle design. From 1997 through 2004 Michelson was adjunct associate professor to the School of Aerospace Engineering, teaching classes in avionics for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and Micro/Mini Air Vehicle (MAV) design. Michelson retired from the Georgia Tech Research Institute in September 2004 and currently holds the title of Principal Research Engineer Emeritus with the Institute. In 2004 he created Millennial Vision, LLC to continue research into biologically inspired aerial robots and remote sensing. He is the President of SEPDAC (Scientific Enterprise in Pursuit and Discovery of Ancient Cultures), a nonprofit educational and scientific organization. He was a member of the board of directors for The Sharp Mountain Preserve for a period of five years (2008-2012).\n\nMichelson has been the U.S. representative and deputy chief referee to the Aviation Industry Corporation of China's UAV Grand Prix during its inaugural year (2011), and again in 2013 and 2015. He was the section editor for \"MAVs and Bio-Inspired UAVs\" in Springer's Handbook of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (released in 2014). Michelson was the NATO/RTA (Research and Technology Agency) lecturer at the Turkish Air Force Academy (Hava Harp Okulu) in Istanbul in 2006, and invited lecturer on Micro Air Vehicle technology at both the von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics (1999 & 2003) and the Royal Military Academy (2001) in Brussels. He was the first \"MITRE Technology Speaker\"(1998) and has been a visiting technology professor in six nations: Australia (2002), Belgium (1999, 2003), Norway (2001), Sweden (2001), Turkey (2001, 2006), and Mexico (2010).\nMichelson was a consultant to the U.S. Army and the Indian Ministry of Defence in 2008, responsible for defining and organizing the 1st U.S.-Asian Micro Air Vehicle Demonstration in Agra India. He performed similar duties for the U.S. Army in defining the 1st US-European Micro Air Vehicle Competition/Demonstration in Garmisch Germany in 2005. He created the short course, \"21st Century Aerial Robotics\", and the digital signal processing lecture/demonstrations in “Principals of Modern Radar” at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is also creator and organizer of the annual International Aerial Robotics Competition. Before joining the staff of the Georgia Tech Research Institute he participated in design and endo-atmospheric flight testing of computer-controlled space-based radar ocean surveillance systems while employed by the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C.\n\nMichelson is listed in various editions of \"Who’s Who in Engineering\", \"Who’s Who in America\", and the 23rd edition of \"Who’s Who in the World\". He is the author of over 90 reports, journal papers, and book chapters.\n\nWhile at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, Michelson worked on radar-based ocean surveillance systems and flew hardware test missions on a Lockheed Warning Star PO-1W Super Constellation. In 1974 Michelson began work at the Georgia Tech Research Institute, where he got his first contract when an entry-level engineer (Research Engineer I). This first project involved methods to electronically track the endangered species Trichechus \"manatus\" (West Indian Manatee) in the waters around the Kennedy Space Center.\n\nMichelson directed over 30 major research projects during his career at the Institute. In 1979 Michelson directed the Army's Indirect Fire Simulation effort conducted for Combat Development and Experimentation Command (CDEC). Michelson directed a Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) program to show feasibility of a non-line-of-sight radio-acoustic sensor for bending radar signals using the Bragg principle to detect obstacle-masked targets (essentially making radars look around corners). He also directed a program to evaluate ground penetration radar for detection of buried natural gas leaks in urban utility systems. During 1981, Michelson directed a program for the automated noninvasive testing of captured foreign threat assets. This system developed by Michelson's design team remained in use by a foreign power for nearly a decade. Other radar test devices were also developed by Michelson for U.S. military test and evaluation purposes within the United States, including a program to develop a Ka-band Linear Electronics Countermeasure Source (KABLES) for use in testing U.S. Army millimeter wave assets.\nMichelson directed various efforts pertaining to future transportation. His team invented battery-state-of-charge estimation techniques, developed electric vehicle systems simulation tools, and experimented with actively blown surfaces on passenger vehicles. During the mid-1990s, Michelson's research began to focus almost entirely on unmanned vehicle systems, especially those with the power of flight. He directed efforts with both U.S. Government agencies and private industry pertaining to unmanned aerial vehicles systems (UAS). One of his first UAS development programs was for a traffic surveillance drone using a compound ducted fan design, made to fly over Atlanta's highways in order to fill surveillance gaps in the State's tower-mounted traffic camera system. It also could be sent to traffic accident locations to gather and relay vital information in advance of first-responder arrival. Funding shortfalls resulted in the cancellation of the project before its maiden flight, but the design was later marketed for military use. Michelson's focus turned to smaller vehicle systems that could fly indoors autonomously without the aid of global positioning system (GPS) reference signals. Under various contracts to DARPA and the Air Force, and using internal research and development funds from the Georgia Tech Research Institute, his design team designed a micro air vehicle (MAV) known as the entomopter. The NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts recognized the unique flight qualities of the entomopter and awarded Michelson two contracts to explore the feasibility of the entomopter for slow flight in Mars' lower atmosphere.\n\nIn 2004 Michelson retired from the Georgia Tech Research Institute and started Millennial Vision, LLC which continued to pursue UAS and MAV research. Soon after establishing Millennial Vision, LLC, Michelson became engaged in a program to develop an unmanned stratospheric airship for persistent reconnaissance. He also was interested in MAVs and competitions by helping to define and organize various international events such as the 1st US-European MAV event in Garmisch Germany (MAV-05) and the subsequent 1st US-Asian Demonstration and Assessment of Micro Aerial Vehicle and Unmanned Ground Vehicle Technology (MAV-08) held in Agra India, as adjunct to the U.S. Army RDECOM-Pacific and Indian Ministry of Defence.\nDuring the 1990s, Michelson became an adjunct associate professor in the Georgia Tech School of Aerospace Engineering, where he taught graduate classes in avionics, with emphasis on unmanned aerial vehicles and micro air vehicles.\n\nIn parallel with his teaching duties in the Georgia Tech School of Aerospace Engineering, Michelson created a team-taught short course through the Georgia Tech Department of Continuing Education entitled, \"21st Century Aerial Robotics\". Laurence \"Nuke\" Newcome and Michelson taught this course on the campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology for several years before engaging in single offerings around the United States as well as Sweden, Norway, and Turkey under NATO grants.\n\nMichelson is an Associate Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and a Full Member of the Scientific Research Society of North America, Sigma Xi. During the 1990s he served as President and member of the Board of Directors of the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems (AUVSI) International organization. In 1998 Michelson received the AUVSI Pioneer Award which is the highest level of recognition within the unmanned systems industry for technical contributions. Michelson is the recipient of the 2001 Pirelli Award for the diffusion of scientific culture, given by an international jury for the \"best multimedia project coming from any educational institution in the world\". For endeavors related to the entomopter, he was also awarded the first €25,000 \"Top Pirelli Prize\". In 2016, the International Aerial Robotics Competition and its creator, Michelson, were officially recognized during the Georgia legislative session in the form of \"Senate Resolution 1255” which recognized his effort in the development of the longest running aerial robotics competition in the world and for having been responsible for moving forward the state of the art in aerial robotics on several occasions during the past quarter century.\n\nMichelson has engaged in marine aquarium design and coral propagation since 1997 when he designed and built a fully automated marine reef biome, in which he propagated various coral species that he collected himself. He has been a NAUI certified SCUBA diver since 1969, and has been a recreational diver in the Caribbean Sea and Pacific Ocean, where he dived on various wrecks and developed methods of collecting and successfully transporting marine invertebrates for propagation. Michelson has also built and flown his own man-rated experimental rotorcraft. N8489B is a single seat gyrocopter for which Michelson is the FAA certified mechanic and pilot.\nWhile working with ground penetrating radar for detection of urban gas leaks, road voids, and buried land mines at the Georgia Tech Research Institute, Michelson became interested in the use of high technology applications to archeology. Since 1995 he has organized half a dozen excursions into the military zone along the Turkish-Iranian border, often with Turkish military escort, to research ancient ekistical artifacts of the eastern Anatolia region and has created a 501 (c3) non-profit corporation to apply various non-traditional technologies to the field of archeology.\n\nMichelson completed training in general contracting/home building in 1986 and built his own home. Later he was overseer for the construction of a Woodstock Georgia church building while continuing his career at the Georgia Tech Research Institute. In 2013 he completed a home of his own design in the mountains of North Georgia that was lumber-free, consisting entirely of steel structural members with concrete foundation and concrete exterior.\n\nMichelson was a Boy Scout and has maintained interest in scouting principles over the years. As a youth he attained Star rank in Troop 981 located in Alexandria Virginia, and was inducted into the Order of the Arrow. He became a Brotherhood member of Amangamek Wipit Lodge 470, one of the largest lodges in the nation, and participated in activities such as the Philmont Scout Reservation (1967). Influenced by their father, both of Michelson's sons are Eagle Scouts with gold and silver palm awards. Michelson was adult advisor to Boy Scouts of America (BSA) Troop/Crew 8880 until its transition away from the BSA to becoming a Trail Life USA unit where Michelson remains in an advisory capacity.\n\nMichelson has had interest in languages and syntax both for computers and spoken communication. He was formally taught Fortran in undergraduate school and learned BASIC, Forth, and various assembly languages on his own in support of his computer-based projects. He designed the target processing unit for the Army's Environment and Radar Operation Simulator (EROS) where it was necessary to design the hardware and coding language for a 10 MHz (100 ns cycle time) processor before such things were available in microprocessor form.\n\nMichelson has been widely interviewed and quoted in print (e.g., Business Week, Popular Mechanics, Scientific American, Chronicle of Higher Education), radio (e.g., National Public Radio, Armed Forces Radio, American Association for the Advancement of Science radio syndicate), and on television (e.g., Scientific American Frontiers, Discovery Channel, CNN, BBC, and various ABC/CBS/NBC/Fox affiliates). Worldwide interest in robotics, and especially the robots of war, spawned a series of televised robotics programming about Michelson's work. A technical biography of Robert Michelson is the subject of episode 1008 of the television program \"Beyond Invention\", which chronicles a number of his research projects including UAV research, the International Aerial Robotics Competition, the entomopter-based Mars surveyor, and his work with automated coral propagation. Michelson is featured in various television programs focused specifically on the International Aerial Robotics Competition, including an hour-long Discovery Science Channel program entitled \"Airbots\". Michelson has been often quoted in news programming with regard to the International Aerial Robotics Competition and the applications of the underlying technology to military and civilian spheres. As the use of robotic drone aircraft increased during the Gulf Wars, public interest in the subject was peaked and Michelson began to be featured in series and specials such as the NOVA episode \"Spies that Fly\" and the BBC special \"Seven Ways to Topple Saddam\". Because of the notoriety of his aerial robotic research, Michelson even became the basis for the fictional character Michael C. Robertson in the novel \"Soft Target: The Air\" (2007) by Joel Narlock. In this work, Michael C. Robertson is the creator of the entomopter at the Georgia Technology Research Institute. This fictitious character's name is an anagram of Robert C. Michelson, the actual inventor of the entomopter at the Georgia \"Tech\" Research Institute. Michelson's entomopter is also featured in another of Joel Narlock's novels, \"Target Acquired\" (2003).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2642103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2642103", "title": "Scott Gurvey", "text": "Scott Gurvey\n\nScott Gurvey is an American journalist and teacher.\n\nHe was for more than two decades the New York City Bureau Chief of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) television program \"Nightly Business Report\". He was also the program's technology reporter and wrote an Internet-based column called \"Public Offering.\" The program was sold to CNBC.\n\nBefore joining \"Nightly Business Report\", Gurvey worked for CBS and NBC. He holds an undergraduate degree from Princeton University and two master's degrees, one in journalism from Columbia University and another in business administration from The University of Chicago.\n\nBorn in Chicago, Illinois, Gurvey is the son of Roy Gurvey, a former chairman and chief executive officer of The Dad's Root Beer Company.\n\nGurvey now writes on business journalism for the Donald W. Reynolds National Center for Business Journalism at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University, where he has also been a guest lecturer. He also writes on technology for the Newsroom at Cisco Systems.\n\nGurvey continues his blog at blog.scottgurvey.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1127711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127711", "title": "Shannon Faulkner", "text": "Shannon Faulkner\n\nShannon Faulkner is an American educator and known for being the first woman admitted into The Citadel. She currently teaches English in Greenville, South Carolina.\n\nFaulkner was born in Powdersville, South Carolina, United States, graduated from Wren High School in January 1993. Faulkner was angry that The Citadel would not allow women. Faulkner became the first woman to attempt to enter the Corps of Cadets at The Citadel, which previously had a male-only admissions policy. Her application to the school was accompanied with having her gender blanked out of her high school transcripts. Faulkner enrolled after a successful lawsuit, \"Faulkner v. Jones et al.\", against the military academy. The suit alleged that the Citadel, which received state money, was \"denying her equal protection under the Constitution.\" Her lawyer, Val Vojdik, said, \"We are seeking educational opportunity... We are seeking equal access to a public program we pay for.\" \n\nFaulkner was allowed to attend classes as a day student by January 1994, but was not allowed to live on campus or wear the uniform. On campus, she was called \"Mrs. Doubtgender\" and faced other slurs from cadets. In 1994, bumper stickers appeared on cars in South Carolina that read \"Shave Shannon,\" in an attempt to humiliate her. In August 1994, a judge ordered Faulkner to shave her head like the way the male Citadel students did each year. In 1995, T-shirts for sale appeared in Charleston reading \"1,952 bulldogs and one bitch.\" In July 1995, Faulkner and a federal judge, C. Weston Houck, toured the woman's college that the state of South Carolina wanted to open as an alternative for women. Later that July, the same federal judge ruled that she should be admitted fully to The Citadel, and The Citadel planned to appeal the decision. In 1995, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that Faulkner must be fully admitted. During the time she fought The Citadel in court, she \"endured taunts and death threats.\" She was also called \"Shrew Shannon\" by The Citadel's newspaper, and the article was dismissed by the president of The Citadel, Claudius Watts, as \"satire.\" \n\nFaulkner matriculated into The Citadel with an otherwise all-male corps of cadets on August 15, 1995 under the escort of United States Marshals. After only four hours of initial training, she suffered heat-stress. She was one of five cadets who became ill. She spent the remainder of the first week in the infirmary before voluntarily resigning, citing emotional and psychological abuse and physical exhaustion. After her departure, the male cadets openly celebrated on the campus. She told Oprah Winfrey on her show that she had gained weight during the court trials due to the stress she was facing. Diana Nyad criticized Faulkner for gaining weight and for not being fully prepared for training. Faulkner was one of thirty cadets to drop out.\n\nTwo decades later, in a 2012 interview with the \"Post and Courier\" newspaper, Faulkner said that what precipitated her leaving so abruptly was a threat to kill her parents by a person present when she entered. Her parent's home was vandalized. In 1999, she told the \"Associated Press\", \"I went into it knowing I may not get anything out of it. I was doing it for the next woman.\"\n\nWriter Pat Conroy paid for Faulkner's education after she left the Citadel, and she became a middle school teacher in South Carolina. Faulkner attended Anderson College. After graduating in 1999, she was hired by Carolina High School.\n\nIn August 1996, four women were admitted to The Citadel. By December 2009, The Citadel had graduated 205 female cadets since Faulkner's admission. In March 2018, Faulkner returned to The Citadel as an invited speaker at a symposium about Conroy. Her statement that she would not criticize the school and considers herself \"a Citadel alumni\" drew a sharp attack from state representative Nancy Mace, who was the first woman to graduate from The Citadel in 1999.\n\nFaulkner is currently an English teacher in Greenville and pursuing a graduate degree at Southern Wesleyan University\n\nFaulkner is mentioned indirectly in the \"King of the Hill\" episode \"Jumpin' Crack Bass\". In the episode, she is referred to as \"that pushy gal who's tryin' to get into The Citadel\".\n\nGarry Shandling makes reference to Faulkner in Season 4, Episode 8 of \"The Larry Sanders Show\", entitled \"Nothing Personal\".\n\nLisa Simpson's experience in \"The Simpsons\"' 8th-season finale, \"The Secret War of Lisa Simpson\", broadly resembles Faulkner's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "217643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217643", "title": "Sizar", "text": "Sizar\n\nAt Trinity College, Dublin and the University of Cambridge, a sizar is an undergraduate who receives some form of assistance such as meals, lower fees or lodging during his or her period of study, in some cases in return for doing a defined job.\n\nThe word is thought to derive from the \"sizes\" or \"sizings\" (in turn a shortened form of \"assize\"), which were the specified portions of food and drink made available at a fixed price at the college. One of the sizar's duties was, historically, to fetch the \"sizes\" for his colleagues.\n\nAt Cambridge, a sizar was originally an undergraduate student who financed his studies by undertaking more or less menial tasks within his college but, as time went on, was increasingly likely to receive small grants from the college. Certain colleges, including St John's and Trinity, distinguished between two categories of sizar: there were specific endowments for specific numbers of sizars who were called \"proper sizars\", those who were not so endowed, but who were maintained by fellow-commoners and fellows were called subsizars. Isaac Newton matriculated as subsizar at Trinity College.\n\nRichard S. Westfall noted that sizars were considerably more successful in gaining degrees than the gentlemen who entered Cambridge in the seventeenth century. Whereas only 30% of the latter continued to the degree (and 68% of the sons of professionals), around 80% of the sons of tradesmen and yeomen, who made up most of the sizars, took their degree.\n\nChurchill College, Cambridge offers three sizarships per year, with the recipients being expected to promote music, theatre and the visual arts in the life of the college. \n\nAccording to \"Alumni Dublinenses\" from 1935, most students entered Trinity College, Dublin as \"pensioners\"; in other words, they paid a fixed sum annually. The other two categories were \"sizars\" and \"fellow commoners\" (\"Socii Comitates\"). Sizars were \"allowed free education in consideration of performing certain, at one time menial, duties\"; fellow commoners paid double fees and enjoyed several privileges, including that of finishing the College course in three years instead of four; \"sizars were sons of poor parents, frequently the clergy\". According to William Howitt, writing in 1847 with reference to Oliver Goldsmith: \nTrinity College, Dublin, is a noble structure; and, with its spacious courts and extensive gardens, more fittingly deserving the name of parks, one would think a place where the years of studentship might — especially in the heart of such a city — be very agreeably spent. But Goldsmith entered there under circumstances that were irksome to him, and to add to the matter, he met with a brute in his tutor. The family income did not allow him to occupy a higher rank than that of a sizer, or poor scholar, and this was mortifying to his sensitive mind. The sizer wears a black gown of coarse stuff without sleeves, a plain black cloth cap without a tassel, and dines at the fellows' table after they have retired. It was at that period far worse; they wore red caps to distinguish them, and were compelled to perform derogatory offices; to sweep the courts in the morning, carry up the dishes from the kitchen to the fellows' table, and wait in the hall till they had dined. No wonder that a mind like that of Goldsmith's writhed under the degradation! He has recorded his own feelings and opinions on this custom: \"Sure pride itself has dictated to the fellows of our colleges the absurd fashion of being attended at meals, and on other public occasions, by those poor men who, willing to be scholars, come in upon some charitable foundation. It implies a contradiction, for men to be at once learning the liberal arts and at the same time treated as slaves; at once studying freedom and practising servitude.\" A spirited fellow at length caused the abolition of the practice of the sizers acting as waiters, and that, too, on grand occasions before the public, by flinging the dish he was carrying on Trinity Sunday, at the head of a citizen in the crowd, assembled to witness the scene, who made some jeering remarks on the office he had to perform.\n\nSizarships are still awarded at Dublin, to new entrants of limited means who have shown merit in their school-leaving examinations. They receive their evening meal (Commons) free of charge, normally for the first two years of an undergraduate course. The word \"sizarship\" is also still used elsewhere to refer to monetary awards made to members of a student body willing to take on defined jobs with responsibility; according to John Stillwell, \"Sizars had to earn their keep as servants to the wealthier students [...]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2154515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154515", "title": "Spalding Method", "text": "Spalding Method\n\nThe Spalding Method is the methodology and educational philosophy of The Writing Road to Reading program. The Spalding philosophy is child centered, that is the physical and mental well-being of students is a primary concern of Spalding teachers. High expectations for all children are central to the philosophy. These principles of learning and instruction are applied throughout the spelling, writing, and reading curricula.\n\nSpalding instruction is explicit, interactive, diagnostic, and multisensory. Teachers model, coach, and provide support as needed; students articulate, reflect, and explore new concepts. Careful daily observation of student progress enables teachers to differentiate instruction to meet student needs. Students see, hear, say, and write using all channels to the brain to enhance retention. All elements of the language are integrated in spelling, writing, and reading lessons. The kindergarten through to sixth-grade curricula is structured, sequential, and cumulative. Phonemic awareness, systematic phonics, high-frequency vocabulary are taught in spelling. In the writing lesson, the same high-frequency words are used to teach word meanings, usage, word parts, grammar, and composition. In the reading lesson, students learn the attributes of fine literature, the structure of narrative and expository text, fluency, listening and reading comprehension. They learn to monitor their comprehension while reading, to make connections with prior knowledge and the text, to predict word meanings, type of writing, outcomes and so forth. They learn to reorganize (reformat) the information in text and use it to mentally summarize to enhance comprehension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25927455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25927455", "title": "Stephen Farthing", "text": "Stephen Farthing\n\nStephen Farthing (born 16 September 1950) is an English painter and writer on art history.\n\nStephen Farthing grew up in London and earned a bachelor's degree from Saint Martin's School of Art in 1973 and a master's degree in painting from the Royal College of Art, London in 1976. In the final year of his master's program, Farthing won a scholarship to study at the British School in Rome for one year.\n\nSince his return from Italy in 1977, Farthing has had one-man shows in the UK, Brazil, Uruguay, Mexico, Australia, Japan, and the United States. Farthing's work featured in the 1989 São Paulo Biennale and that same year he served as the Artist in Residence at the Hayward Gallery in London. He also won prizes in the John Moores Liverpool Exhibition on eight separate occasions between 1976 and 1999.\n\nFarthing was elected as a member of the Royal Academy of Arts in 1998. Farthing's work is in the National Portrait Gallery (London) and he also showed at the Tate Britain in 2006 as part of a project called \"Drawing from Turner,\" that he designed and curated. Farthing also painted large murals for the Cleveland Browns Football Club in Cleveland, Ohio (2004) and Aston Villa Football Club in Birmingham, UK (2008).\n\nStephen Farthing's teaching career began at Canterbury College of Art (1977–1979) where he was a lecturer of painting. He went on to teach at the Royal College of Art (1980–1985) before becoming the Head of Painting and later the Head of Fine Art at West Surrey College of Art and Design (1985–1989). Farthing spent the next ten years at Oxford University serving as the Ruskin Master at the Ruskin School of Drawing and Fine Art. He was also made a Professorial Fellow of Oxford's St Edmund Hall (1990–2000). Upon leaving the university in 2000, Farthing was made a professor emeritus of St Edmund Hall.\n\nFarthing moved to New York in 2000 to become the Executive Director of the New York Academy of Art and led the Academy until he became the Rootstein Hopkins Research Chair of Drawing at the University of the Arts London in 2004, a position he held until 2017.\n\nFarthing has published extensively. Most known for his authorship of \"1001 Paintings You Must See Before You Die\" and \"501 Great Artists\". He also authored the Intelligent Person's Guide to Modern Art, published in 2000 in addition to numerous academic essays and journal articles.\n\nStephen Farthing continues to live and work in both the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nFarthing described his work in a 2005 interview, saying \"I have dined with the devil in terms of becoming a modern artist. I have taken hold of history, tried to understand it—and then used and abused it.\"\n\nFarthing's work reflects his education, personal experience and perspective on historical events that have captured his imagination. After spending a period of study at the Cité Internationale des Arts in Paris while a student at the Royal College of Art, Stephen Farthing inadvertently fell upon what one could later describe as a postmodernist relationship with history. In Paris, he painted an interpretation of Hyacinthe Rigaud's portrait of Louis XV that as a student won him a prize at the John Moores Exhibition in Liverpool, today this painting stands as an early example of British post modernist painting.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s whilst showing with Edward Totah in London, Farthing showed works that positioned Latin American vernacular culture within a modernist idiom and classicism within the vernacular.\n\nDuring the 1990s, he reinvented history painting as a viable contemporary narrative taking on subject matters as diverse as the Battle of Trafalgar, swagger portraiture, and the topographical mapping of cities. His most recent work makes explicit a theme that has consistently sat between Farthing and his audience, the \"narrative\" and \"text\".\n\nFarthing commented that his work is, \"not this thing about 'Oh, let's let the audience make up their mind what it is'…\" but about \"degrading it on purpose so it becomes not more ambiguous, but less what it was in the first place.\"\n\nToward the end of 2009, Farthing had his first one-person show at the Purdy Hicks Gallery in London where, for the first time, he showed the \"back-story\" paintings. The \"back-story\" paintings are a series of images painted with a text in reverse sitting on the picture plane between the audience and the image. The text tells us what is going on not in the picture but behind it, so compromising and at the same time informing the image with text. His technically very skilled paintings all seem to be grounded on one guiding principle - that what we see will always be always conditioned by what we know.\n\nIn November 2010, Farthing became the second living Royal Academician to be featured in the \"laboratory\" series of one man shows at the Royal Academy of Arts London. \"The Back Story,\" featured an epic 30 foot painting of the Atlantic ocean.\n\nFarthing's work as a painter sits midway between the conservative and the cutting edge between a classical and radical painting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7014801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7014801", "title": "Superior Technical School of Architecture of Madrid", "text": "Superior Technical School of Architecture of Madrid\n\nThe Superior Technical School of Architecture of Madrid (, ETSAM) is the superior school of architecture of the Technical University of Madrid (UPM), Spain. It prepares future architects and grants the title of Architect, as well as doctorates and diverse master's degrees. The center is located on the \"Avenida Juan de Herrera\", 4, within the University City of Madrid. The present building has been used since 1936. It has an extensive library which includes original treaties of Le Corbusier, Serlio and Andrés de Vandelvira, the most recent magazines of architecture, the most influential books on modern architecture. This school is considered by many professionals of the sector as the best in Spain and one of the best worldwide.\n\nCurrently the study plan followed in the center focused on the obtention of the main Architecture diploma is the plan 2010, also known as Bolonia. It was passed in the session celebrated in 2007 at the same school. From then on, the old \"Plan 96\" was slowly extincted, till June 2018. The 2010 Plan consists in 360 European credits \"ECTS\", with an equivalence of between 25 and 30 hours of work per credit, and started in 2010-2011. \n\nThe 360 credits are split into a 300-credit degree and a 60-credit master, a formula known as 5+1 years. The degree is a 5 year study plan, with each year split in 2 different cuatrimesters, Fall and Spring. Subjects can be classified as Basic (shared with other faculties in UPM), compulsory or Optative (exclusively lectured at ETSAM). Only 18 credits correspond to Optative subjects. Once the programme is completed, the student receives a Graduate title in Architecture fundaments, which opens the way for the University Master in Architecture, (one year), which grants the full title of Architect.\n\nThe school grants different posgraduate studies, accesible only to those with the title of Architect. Studies at this level can be Phds or posgraduate. Phd Studies are organised in programs, each one of them having several subjects that jointly present unity and relationships, and together define a speciality inside the Phd studies.\n\nPosgraduate studies are divided into 9 University masters, 15 specialisation courses and 14 independent titles. Many of them present an international level of prestige and influence, such as the Master in City Sciences and the MCH Master in Collective Housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1039974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039974", "title": "University of the South Pacific", "text": "University of the South Pacific\n\nThe University of the South Pacific (USP) is an intergovernmental organisation and public research university with locations spread throughout a dozen countries in Oceania. It is an international centre for teaching and research on Pacific culture and environment. USP's academic programmes are recognised worldwide, attracting students and staff from throughout the Pacific region and internationally.\n\nThe British colonial link and the establishment of the University of the South Pacific in 1968 allowed the education system to follow suit from the qualification system of the Commonwealth of Nations. It is the only university in the Oceania region (other than Australia, New Zealand, Hawaii and Guam) to be internationally recognised outside for its bachelor's and other awards programme.\n\nUSP is owned by the governments of 12 Pacific island countries: the Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.\n\nUSP offers Undergraduate and postgraduate study programmes including: \n\nUSP's main campus, called Laucala, is in Fiji. The Alafua Campus in Samoa hosts the School of Agriculture and Food Technology. The Emalus Campus in Vanuatu is the location for the School of Law.\n\nIn addition, USP operates 11 regional centres based in Pacific islands countries. The region served by USP covers 33 million km of the Pacific ocean, an area more than three times the size of Europe. In contrast, the total land mass of territories served corresponds to the area of Denmark. Populations of member countries vary from Tokelau with 1,500 people to Fiji with more than 900,000 people. (The population of the region is about 1.3 million.)\n"}
{"id": "43161243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43161243", "title": "Yangon Adventist Seminary", "text": "Yangon Adventist Seminary\n\nThe Yangon Adventist Seminary (YAS) is a Christian institution owned and operated by Seventh-day Adventist Church since 1975. It is opened to young people who want to study in Christian Atmosphere Non-Christian student who can make the agreement to follow the rules and regulations of the school may be accepted.\nYAS is accredited by the Accrediting Association of Seventh-day Adventist School, Colleges, and Universities(AAA), Maryland, USA.\n\nYAS has a proud tradition of recognizing outstanding, student achievement in all areas and practices Positive Behavior Support. The programs listed below are the prime examples of this tradition.\n\n\n\n"}
