{"id": "38579303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38579303", "title": "Agape International Missions", "text": "Agape International Missions\n\nAgape International Missions (AIM) is a nonprofit organization working to help girls caught up in the child sex trade in Cambodia. Agape was founded by Bridget and Don Brewster of Lincoln, California in 1989. Bryce Jessup is Board Chair of the organization.\n\nAIM opened its restoration center for former child sex workers in 2006, and in the country in 2006. It co-funds the Svay Pak-based rehabilitation center for formerly prostituted children. called \"Agape Training Center\", 41 young women receive rehabilitation and employment through the center. Svay Pak is described by the Vancouver Sun as a place where up to 90% of children are forced into prostitution, and as \"one of the few places on earth\" where men can purchase sex with a three-year-old child. Agape runs medical and dental clinics staffed by volunteer medical personnel who fly in from the developed world for a week at a time.\n\nSome of the funds from the 2011 Run for Courage went to AIM.\n\nDon Brewster is an American activist. He founded Agape International Missions (AIM) in 1989. He and his wife moved to Cambodia and freed 200 girls from sexual slavery. Through AIM, Brewster ran a Svay Pak, Cambodia-based rehabilitation center for formerly prostituted children called \"Agape Training Center\". 41 young women received rehabilitation and employment through the center. Brewster used to be the pastor of Adventure Christian Church.\n"}
{"id": "36547214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36547214", "title": "Aksha, Sudan", "text": "Aksha, Sudan\n\nAksha is an ancient Egyptian temple, rebuilt in part at the National Museum of Sudan in Khartoum. The temple was built around 1250 BC by Ramses II. It is situated in the far north of present-day Sudan, a few kilometers south of Faras, on the west side of the Nile. On the temple walls, several sacrifices are depicted. The location of the temple was not well chosen, as it is only a few inches above the high tide of the Nile. This resulted in penetration of the lower wall layers, salt crystallization on the wall surfaces, and stones being worn down over the centuries. In addition, the temple was preyed upon by the local population. Other finds at the site include cemeteries, parts of Qubanstele, and the stele with the \"blessings of Ptah\".\n\nThe 1963 excavations of Aksha were initiated because of the construction of the Aswan Dam. One of the discoveries included a relatively well-preserved temple wall, the western wall of the courtyard. Along its entire length, it contains a carved list of the foreign nations which Ramses II. After the temple was deemed worthy of preservation, archaeologists from the University of Ghana sawed the wall into individual blocks. It was rebuilt in the garden of the National Museum, protected by a pavilion.\n\n"}
{"id": "48682164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48682164", "title": "American Association for the Advancement of Atheism", "text": "American Association for the Advancement of Atheism\n\nThe American Association for the Advancement of Atheism (4A) was an atheistic and antireligious organization established in 1925. It was founded by Charles Lee Smith, and the organization's \"only creedal requirement was a formal profession of atheism\".\n\nThe Special Committee on Un-American Activities (1938-1944) wrote that \"The American Association for the Advancement of Atheism is attempting to abrogate nil laws enforcing Christian morals; to stop 'bootlegging of religion in public schools'; to stop 'issuance of religious proclamations by Government officials,' such as Thanksgiving, etc.; to tax ecclesiastical property; to repeal Sunday (blue law) legislation; to tax and nationalize church property.\" The Junior Atheist League was founded in 1927, and enrolled students from the age of seven to seventeen.\n\nElizabeth Dilling in \"The Red Network\", wrote that \"Blamegiving Day has been officially established by the Association as a day of protest against Thanksgiving services.\" The program for a Blamegiving event run by the American Association for the Advancement of Atheism advertised itself as “a protest against Divine negligence, to be observed each year on Thanksgiving Day, on the assumption, for the day only, that God exists.” \"The New York Times\" further delineates Blamesgiving Day, writing that \"A protest sermon explained the purpose of Blamesgiving: 'While others are expressing their gratefulness for the good things of the past year, there can be no harm in making a similar list of things that were not so good.'\n\nIn the 1920s, Ilya Ivanovich Ivanov \"submitted to the Soviet government a project for hybridizing humans and apes by means of artificial insemination\" and the \"American Association for the Advancement of Atheism announced its fund-raising campaign to support Ivanov's project but gave it a scandalously racist interpretation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26348060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26348060", "title": "Anna Hanson Dorsey", "text": "Anna Hanson Dorsey\n\nAnna Hanson Dorsey (1815 – 26 December 1896) was an American author of novels and short stories. A convert to Catholicism, she was a pioneer of Catholic literature in the United States.\n\nBorn Anna Hanson in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., she was the daughter of the Rev. William McKenney, a chaplain in the U.S. Navy, and Chloe Ann Lanigan McKenney. In 1837 she married Lorenzo Dorsey, a Baltimore judge. Their only son died fighting on the Union side in the American Civil War. Her daughter, Ella Loraine Dorsey, was an author.\n\nDorsey converted to Catholicism in 1840 and thereafter devoted herself to Catholic literature, mainly in the form of stories and novels, although she wrote a small amount of poetry as well. Her more than 40 novels frequently centered on a religious conversion narrative aimed at her largely Protestant audiences, and her \"New York Times\" obituary referred to her as a pioneer of Catholic literature in the United States. Her plots tended towards melodrama, with elements such as mistaken identities, mysterious disappearances, and false accusations. Her novel \"Coaina: The Rose of the Algonquins\" was translated into both German and Hindustani and also made into a stage play. At least two of her novels — \"The Student of Blenheim Forest\" (1847) and \"The Sister of Charity\" (1850) — were still in print at the end of the century.\n\nPope Leo XIII twice sent her his benediction, and the University of Notre Dame conferred upon her the Lætare medal.\n\nShe died in Washington, D.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "3100505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100505", "title": "Arora", "text": "Arora\n\nThe Arora is a community of the Punjab region closely related to the Khatri community. Aroras were mainly concentrated in West Punjab in modern Pakistan along the banks of the Indus River and its tributaries; in the Malwa region in East Punjab in India, although not greatly in what became the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa from 1901; in Sindh (mainly as Sindhi Aroras but there were many Punjabi and Multani speaking Aroras as well); in Rajasthan (as Jodhpuri and Nagauri Aroras/Khatris); and in Gujarat. In post-independence India, Aroras mainly reside in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Jammu, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Gujarat.\n\nDenzil Ibbetson, who wrote the Report for the Indian census of 1881, notes that \"The Aroras are often called Roras in the east of the Panjab\". However, he considers the community calling itself Ror to be distinct from the Punjabi Arora, stating that \"I can hardly believe that the frank and stalwart Ror is of the same origin as the Arora\" even though they shared a common account of their origin. The account was that in the past they had denied their original status in order to avoid persecution, and were in fact \"Rajputs who escaped the fury of Paras Ram by stating that their caste was \"aur\" or 'another'\", from which word their name came.\n\nAccording to Ibbetson, the belief of the Punjabi community is that in fleeing the persecution there was at some point a bifurcation, with some members moving north and others moving south. From this arose the two major endogamous divisions within the Arora, respectively known as Uttradhi and Dakhna, which in turn had subdivisions. H. A. Rose is more specific, considering this to be the belief of the Arora of Gujarat, who maintain that Paras Ram pushed the community towards Multan, where they founded the town of Arorkot, probably near to the present day Rohri. That town was subsequently cursed and its inhabitants fled in different directions through its north, south and west gates. While Rose agrees with Ibbetson that the Dakhna division is sometimes thought to include a subdivision called Dahra, he states that the Dahra went westwards, rather than south, and that there is also another major division known as the Sindhi of Sindh.\n\nFor the purposes of his report on the census, Ibbetson treats the Arora as a separate community from that of the Khatri, although similarly one of the \"great mercantile castes\". He notes that the Arora claimed to be of Khatri origin, evidenced by their claims to have denied their true origin to avoid persecution, but that the Khatri themselves rejected this. Jogendra Nath Bhattacharya, writing in 1896, goes further and states that only the Arora believe this connection to be true. However, a more recent commentator, Scott Cameron Levi, believes that they are a \"sub-caste of the Khatris\".\n\nThe Aroras settled in Amritsar during the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh or even earlier. It is presumed that they migrated from Sindh or Multan to Lahore, and then to Amritsar. This is inferred from the fact that, after a very long stay in the central Punjab, they ceased to speak their Lahnda dialect. The Arora Sikhs are mostly found in big towns, especially in Amritsar. They were living there even before independence. Their Hindu counterparts, the majority of whom migrated from Pakistan, arrived in India in 1947. Aroras not only have survived but have prospered. The \"Amritsar Gazetteer\" claims Aroras are very energetic and intelligent. They are mostly engaged in trade and industry. They are superior in business acumen to their counterparts settled in the district. A good number of them have also joined public and private services. The \"Hoshiarpur Gazetteer\" says \n\nBefore the independence, Aroras used to marry only among their sub-group i.e. Uttradhi, Dakkhna or Dahra and members of the same geographic region. But after the independence, spheres of permissible arranged matrimonial alliances were widened to others of Punjabi origin.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "11185654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11185654", "title": "Astrolog", "text": "Astrolog\n\nAstrolog is an astrology software program that has been available online free of charge since 1991. It was originally authored by Walter Pullen, and distributed via postings to the Usenet newsgroup alt.astrology.\n\nAstrolog can create horoscopes, natal charts, and calculate current planetary positions in sidereal, traditional, and heliocentric formats. It can be used to relate astrological house and sign dispositors and other nonstandard systems. Astrolog uses 21 different house systems, can calculate 18 different aspects such as trines, squares, semisquares, and rarer ones such as biquintiles, quatronoviles, and sesquiquadrates. Astrolog computes the traditional planets, along with minor planetary objects such as Ceres, Juno and Vesta, and uranian objects such as Vulkanus and Russian Proserpina. It can show nearly 50 fixed stars, and animate the chart in real time synchronized with the OS clock. Astrolog can do forms of locational astrology such as astrocartography.\n\nAll versions of Astrolog have been distributed with source code, and the most recent versions are free software under the GNU General Public License. Several different parties have contributed to the core program or to alternate versions of it. For example, Astrolog started with the early astrological formulas implemented by Michael Erlewine. Later versions of it made use of the Placalc and then Swiss Ephemeris libraries produced by Astrodienst AG. Other parties contributed PostScript graphics, and integerated ephemeris files for minor planetary objects. Astrolog has been ported to many different platforms, where versions exist for Unix, MS-DOS, Microsoft Windows, Macintosh, and OS/2, among others. Astrolog has also been distributed as sample packages with versions of SUSE Linux.\n\nMost consider Astrolog to rival commercial programs in quality. In November 1995, The Mountain Astrologer reviewed a number of software programs, where Astrolog was the one freeware program included, described as \"good enough to be worthy of review with the main commercial programs\". In the 1990s, Astrolog was mentioned a number of times in American Astrology's \"The New Astrology\" article by Ken Irving, because at the time it was the only readily available program that could compute Gauquelin sectors as described by astrologer Michel Gauquelin.\n\nAll versions of Astrolog include a command line interface. Most criticism of the program is due to command switches being confusing to memorize or use. Windows and Macintosh versions eventually included standard GUI. The command switch interface allows all of Astrolog's features to be accessed from shell scripts or to be invoked by other programs. There are a number of online servers that use Astrolog as a back end to generate charts for the user.\n\n"}
{"id": "38862610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38862610", "title": "Astrology and science", "text": "Astrology and science\n\nAstrology consists of a number of belief systems that hold that there is a relationship between astronomical phenomena and events or descriptions of personality in the human world. Astrology has been rejected by the scientific community as having no explanatory power for describing the universe. Scientific testing has found no evidence to support the premises or purported effects outlined in astrological traditions.\n\nWhere astrology has made falsifiable predictions, it has been falsified. The most famous test was headed by Shawn Carlson and included a committee of scientists and a committee of astrologers. It led to the conclusion that natal astrology performed no better than chance. Astrologer and psychologist Michel Gauquelin claimed to have found statistical support for \"the Mars effect\" in the birth dates of athletes, but it could not be replicated in further studies. The organisers of later studies claimed that Gauquelin had tried to influence their inclusion criteria for the study by suggesting specific individuals be removed. It has also been suggested, by Geoffrey Dean, that the reporting of birth times by parents (before the 1950s) may have caused the apparent effect.\n\nAstrology has not demonstrated its effectiveness in controlled studies and has no scientific validity, and is thus regarded as pseudoscience. There is no proposed mechanism of action by which the positions and motions of stars and planets could affect people and events on Earth in the way astrologers say they do that does not contradict well-understood, basic aspects of biology and physics.\n\nThe majority of professional astrologers rely on performing astrology-based personality tests and making relevant predictions about the remunerator's future. Those who continue to have faith in astrology have been characterised as doing so \"in spite of the fact that there is no verified scientific basis for their beliefs, and indeed that there is strong evidence to the contrary\". Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson commented on astrological belief, saying that \"part of knowing how to think is knowing how the laws of nature shape the world around us. Without that knowledge, without that capacity to think, you can easily become a victim of people who seek to take advantage of you\".\n\nThe continued belief in astrology despite its lack of credibility is seen as one demonstration of low scientific literacy.\n\nThe foundations of the theoretical structure used in astrology originate with the Babylonians, although widespread usage did not occur till the start of the Hellenistic period after Alexander the Great swept through Greece. It was not known to the Babylonians that the constellations are not on a celestial sphere and are very far apart. The appearance of them being close is illusory. The exact demarcation of what a constellation is, is cultural, and varied between civilisations. Ptolemy's work on astronomy was driven to some extent by the desire, like all astrologers of the time, to easily calculate the planetary movements. Early western astrology operated under the ancient Greek concepts of the Macrocosm and microcosm; and thus medical astrology related what happened to the planets and other objects in the sky to medical operations. This provided a further motivator for the study of astronomy. While still defending the practice of astrology, Ptolemy acknowledged that the predictive power of astronomy for the motion of the planets and other celestial bodies ranked above astrological predictions.\n\nDuring the Islamic Golden Age, astronomy was funded so that the astronomical parameters, such as the eccentricity of the sun's orbit, required for the Ptolemaic model could be calculated to a sufficient accuracy and precision. Those in positions of power, like the Fatimid Caliphate vizier in 1120, funded the construction of observatories so that astrological predictions, fuelled by precise planetary information, could be made. Since the observatories were built to help in making astrological predictions, few of these observatories lasted long due to the prohibition against astrology within Islam, and most were torn down during or just after construction.\n\nThe clear rejection of astrology in works of astronomy started in 1679, with the yearly publication La Connoissance des temps. Unlike the west, in Iran, the rejection of heliocentrism continued up towards the start of the 20th century, in part motivated by a fear that this would undermine the widespread belief in astrology and Islamic cosmology in Iran. The first work, Falak al-sa'ada by Ictizad al-Saltana, aimed at undermining this belief in astrology and \"old astronomy\" in Iran was published in 1861. On astrology, it cited the inability of different astrologers to make the same prediction about what occurs following a conjunction, and described the attributes astrologers gave to the planets as implausible.\n\nAstrology provides the quintessential example of a pseudoscience since it has been tested repeatedly and failed all the tests.\n\nScience and non-science are being often distinguished by the criterion of falsifiability. The criterion was first proposed by philosopher of science Karl Popper. To Popper, science does not rely on induction; instead, scientific investigations are inherently attempts to falsify existing theories through novel tests. If a single test fails, then the theory is falsified.\n\nTherefore, any test of a scientific theory must prohibit certain results that falsify the theory, and expect other specific results consistent with the theory. Using this criterion of falsifiability, astrology is a pseudoscience.\n\nAstrology was Popper's most frequent example of pseudoscience. Popper regarded astrology as \"pseudo-empirical\" in that \"it appeals to observation and experiment\", but \"nevertheless does not come up to scientific standards\".\n\nIn contrast to scientific disciplines, astrology does not respond to falsification through experiment. According to Professor of neurology Terence Hines, this is a hallmark of pseudoscience.\n\nIn contrast to Popper, the philosopher Thomas Kuhn argued that it was not lack of falsifiability that makes astrology unscientific, but rather that the process and concepts of astrology are non-empirical. To Kuhn, although astrologers had, historically, made predictions that \"categorically failed,\" this in itself does not make it unscientific, nor do the attempts by astrologers to explain away the failure by claiming it was due to the creation of a horoscope being very difficult (through subsuming, after the fact, a more general horoscope that leads to a different prediction).\n\nRather, in Kuhn's eyes, astrology is not science because it was always more akin to medieval medicine; they followed a sequence of rules and guidelines for a seemingly necessary field with known shortcomings, but they did no research because the fields are not amenable to research, and so, \"They had no puzzles to solve and therefore no science to practise.\"\n\nWhile an astronomer could correct for failure, an astrologer could not. An astrologer could only explain away failure but could not revise the astrological hypothesis in a meaningful way. As such, to Kuhn, even if the stars could influence the path of humans through life astrology is not scientific.\n\nPhilosopher Paul Thagard believed that astrology can not be regarded as falsified in this sense until it has been replaced with a successor. In the case of predicting behaviour, psychology is the alternative. To Thagard a further criterion of demarcation of science from pseudoscience was that the state of the art must progress and that the community of researchers should be attempting to compare the current theory to alternatives, and not be \"selective in considering confirmations and disconfirmations\".\n\nProgress is defined here as explaining new phenomena and solving existing problems, yet astrology has failed to progress having only changed little in nearly 2000 years. To Thagard, astrologers are acting as though engaged in normal science believing that the foundations of astrology were well established despite the \"many unsolved problems\", and in the face of better alternative theories (Psychology). For these reasons Thagard viewed astrology as pseudoscience.\n\nTo Thagard, astrology should not be regarded as a pseudoscience on the failure of Gauquelin's to find any correlation between the various astrological signs and someone's career, twins not showing the expected correlations from having the same signs in twin studies, lack of agreement on the significance of the planets discovered since Ptolemy's time and large scale disasters wiping out individuals with vastly different signs at the same time. Rather, his demarcation of science requires three distinct foci; \"theory, community [and] historical context\".\n\nWhile verification and falsifiability focused on the theory, Kuhn's work focused on the historical context, but the astrological community should also be considered. Whether or not they:\nIn this approach, true falsification rather than modifying a theory to avoid the falsification only really occurs when an alternative theory is proposed.\n\nFor the philosopher Edward W. James, astrology is irrational not because of the numerous problems with mechanisms and falsification due to experiments, but because an analysis of the astrological literature shows that it is infused with fallacious logic and poor reasoning.\n\nThis poor reasoning includes appeals to ancient astrologers such as Kepler despite any relevance of topic or specific reasoning, and vague claims. The claim that evidence for astrology is that people born at roughly \"the same place have a life pattern that is very similar\" is vague, but also ignores that time is reference frame dependent and gives no definition of \"same place\" despite the planet's moving in the reference frame of the solar system. Other comments by astrologers are based on severely erroneous interpretations of basic physics, such as a claim by one astrologer that the solar system looks like an atom. Further, James noted that response to criticism also relies on faulty logic, an example of which was a response to twin studies with the statement that coincidences in twins are due to astrology, but any differences are due to \"heredity and environment\", while for other astrologers the issues are too difficult and they just want to get back to their astrology. Further, to astrologers, if something appears in their favour, they latch upon it as proof, while making no attempt to explore its implications, preferring to refer to the item in favour as definitive; possibilities that do not make astrology look favourable are ignored.\n\nFrom the Quinean web of knowledge, there is a dichotomy where one must either reject astrology or accept astrology but reject all established scientific disciplines that are incompatible with astrology.\n\nAstrologers often avoid making verifiable predictions, and instead rely on vague statements that let them try to avoid falsification. Across several centuries of testing, the predictions of astrology have never been more accurate than that expected by chance alone. One approach used in testing astrology quantitatively is through blind experiment. When specific predictions from astrologers were tested in rigorous experimental procedures in the Carlson test, the predictions were falsified. All controlled experiments have failed to show any effect.\n\nThe Shawn Carlson's double-blind chart matching tests, in which 28 astrologers agreed to match over 100 natal charts to psychological profiles generated by the California Psychological Inventory (CPI) test, is one of the most renowned tests of astrology, and was published in a highly prestigious journal, Nature. Double blinding helps to practically eliminate all bias from a study, including from participants as well as the person performing the study. The experimental protocol used in Carlson's study was agreed to by a group of physicists and astrologers prior to the experiment. Astrologers, nominated by the National Council for Geocosmic Research, acted as the astrological advisors, and helped to ensure, and agreed, that the test was fair. They also chose 26 of the 28 astrologers for the tests, the other 2 being interested astrologers who volunteered afterwards. The astrologers came from Europe and the United States. The astrologers helped to draw up the central proposition of natal astrology to be tested. Published in \"Nature\" in 1985, the study found that predictions based on natal astrology were no better than chance, and that the testing \"clearly refutes the astrological hypothesis\".\n\nScientist and former astrologer Geoffrey Dean and psychologist Ivan Kelly conducted a large-scale scientific test, involving more than one hundred cognitive, behavioural, physical and other variables, but found no support for astrology. A further test involved 45 confident astrologers, with an average of 10 years' experience and 160 test subjects (out of an original sample size of 1198 test subjects) who strongly favoured certain characteristics in the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire to extremes. The astrologers performed much worse than merely basing decisions off the individuals' ages, and much worse than 45 control subjects who did not use birth charts at all.\n\nA meta-analysis was conducted, pooling 40 studies consisting of 700 astrologers and over 1,000 birth charts. Ten of the tests, which had a total of 300 participating, involved the astrologers picking the correct chart interpretation out of a number of others that were not the astrologically correct chart interpretation (usually three to five others). When the date and other obvious clues were removed, no significant results were found to suggest there was any preferred chart.\n\nIn 10 studies, participants picked horoscopes that they felt were accurate descriptions, with one being the \"correct\" answer. Again the results were no better than chance.\n\nIn a study of 2011 sets of people born within 5 minutes of each other (\"time twins\") to see if there was any discernible effect, no effect was seen.\n\nQuantitative sociologist David Voas examined the census data for more than 20 million individuals in England and Wales to see if star signs corresponded to marriage arrangements. No effect was seen.\n\nIn 1955, astrologer and psychologist Michel Gauquelin stated that although he had failed to find evidence to support such indicators as the zodiacal signs and planetary aspects in astrology, he had found positive correlations between the diurnal positions of some of the planets and success in professions (such as doctors, scientists, athletes, actors, writers, painters, etc.), which astrology traditionally associates with those planets. The best-known of Gauquelin's findings is based on the positions of Mars in the natal charts of successful athletes and became known as the \"Mars effect\". A study conducted by seven French scientists attempted to replicate the claim, but found no statistical evidence. They attributed the effect to selective bias on Gauquelin's part, accusing him of attempting to persuade them to add or delete names from their study.\n\nGeoffrey Dean has suggested that the effect may be caused by self-reporting of birth dates by parents rather than any issue with the study by Gauquelin. The suggestion is that a small subset of the parents may have had changed birth times to be consistent with better astrological charts for a related profession. The sample group was taken from a time where belief in astrology was more common. Gauquelin had failed to find the Mars effect in more recent populations, where a nurse or doctor recorded the birth information. The number of births under astrologically undesirable conditions was also lower, indicating more evidence that parents choose dates and times to suit their beliefs.\n\nBeyond the scientific tests astrology has failed, proposals for astrology face a number of other obstacles due to the many theoretical flaws in astrology including lack of consistency, lack of ability to predict missing planets, lack of any connection of the zodiac to the constellations, and lack of any plausible mechanism. The underpinnings of astrology tend to disagree with numerous basic facts from scientific disciplines.\n\nTesting the validity of astrology can be difficult because there is no consensus amongst astrologers as to what astrology is or what it can predict. Dean and Kelly documented 25 studies, which had found that the degree of agreement amongst astrologers' predictions was measured as a low 0.1. Most professional astrologers are paid to predict the future or describe a person's personality and life, but most horoscopes only make vague untestable statements that can apply to almost anyone.\n\nGeorges Charpak and Henri Broch dealt with claims from western astrology in the book \"Debunked! ESP, Telekinesis, and other Pseudoscience\". They pointed out that astrologers have only a small knowledge of astronomy and that they often do not take into account basic features such as the precession of the equinoxes, which would change the position of the sun with time. They commented on the example of Elizabeth Teissier who claimed that \"the sun ends up in the same place in the sky on the same date each year\" as the basis for claims that two people with the same birthday but a number of years apart should be under the same planetary influence. Charpak and Broch noted that \"there is a difference of about twenty-two thousand miles between Earth's location on any specific date in two successive years\" and that thus they should not be under the same influence according to astrology. Over a 40 years period there would be a difference greater than 780,000 miles.\n\nEdward W. James, commented that attaching significance to the constellation on the celestial sphere the sun is in at sunset was done on the basis of human factors—namely, that astrologers didn't want to wake up early, and the exact time of noon was hard to know. Further, the creation of the zodiac and the disconnect from the constellations was because the sun is not in each constellation for the same amount of time. This disconnection from the constellations led to the problem with precession separating the zodiac symbols from the constellations that they once were related to. Philosopher of science, Massimo Pigliucci commenting on the movement, opined \"Well then, which sign should I look up when I open my Sunday paper, I wonder?\"\n\nThe tropical zodiac has no connection to the stars, and as long as no claims are made that the constellations themselves are in the associated sign, astrologers avoid the concept that precession seemingly moves the constellations because they don't reference them. Charpak and Broch, noting this, referred to astrology based on the tropical zodiac as being \"...empty boxes that have nothing to do with anything and are devoid of any consistency or correspondence with the stars.\" Sole use of the tropical zodiac is inconsistent with references made, by the same astrologers, to the Age of Aquarius, which depends on when the vernal point enters the constellation of Aquarius.\n\nSome astrologers make claims that the position of all the planets must be taken into account, but astrologers were unable to predict the existence of Neptune based on mistakes in horoscopes. Instead Neptune was predicted using Newton's law of universal gravitation. The grafting on of Uranus, Neptune and Pluto into the astrology discourse was done on an \"ad hoc\" basis.\n\nOn the demotion of Pluto to the status of dwarf planet, Philip Zarka of the Paris Observatory in Meudon, France wondered how astrologers should respond:\n\nAstrology has been criticised for failing to provide a physical mechanism that links the movements of celestial bodies to their purported effects on human behaviour. In a lecture in 2001, Stephen Hawking stated \"The reason most scientists don't believe in astrology is because it is not consistent with our theories that have been tested by experiment.\" In 1975, amid increasing popular interest in astrology, \"The Humanist\" magazine presented a rebuttal of astrology in a statement put together by Bart J. Bok, Lawrence E. Jerome, and Paul Kurtz. The statement, entitled 'Objections to Astrology', was signed by 186 astronomers, physicists and leading scientists of the day. They said that there is no scientific foundation for the tenets of astrology and warned the public against accepting astrological advice without question. Their criticism focused on the fact that there was no mechanism whereby astrological effects might occur:\nAstronomer Carl Sagan declined to sign the statement. Sagan said he took this stance not because he thought astrology had any validity, but because he thought that the tone of the statement was authoritarian, and that dismissing astrology because there was no mechanism (while \"certainly a relevant point\") was not in itself convincing. In a letter published in a follow-up edition of \"The Humanist\", Sagan confirmed that he would have been willing to sign such a statement had it described and refuted the principal tenets of astrological belief. This, he argued, would have been more persuasive and would have produced less controversy.\n\nThe use of poetic imagery based on the concepts of the macrocosm and microcosm, \"as above so below\" to decide meaning such as Edward W. James' example of \"Mars above is red, so Mars below means blood and war\", is a false cause fallacy.\n\nMany astrologers claim that astrology is scientific. If one were to attempt to try to explain it scientifically, there are only four fundamental forces (conventionally), limiting the choice of possible natural mechanisms. Some astrologers have proposed conventional causal agents such as electromagnetism and gravity. The strength of these forces drops off with distance. Scientists reject these proposed mechanisms as implausible since, for example, the magnetic field, when measured from earth, of a large but distant planet such as Jupiter is far smaller than that produced by ordinary household appliances. Astronomer Phil Plait noted that in terms of magnitude, the sun is the only object with an electromagnetic field of note, but astrology isn't based just off the sun alone. While astrologers could try to suggest a fifth force, this is inconsistent with the trends in physics with the unification of Electromagnetism and the weak force into the electroweak force. If the astrologer insisted on being inconsistent with the current understanding and evidential basis of physics, that would be an extraordinary claim. It would also be inconsistent with the other forces which drop off with distance. If distance is irrelevant, then, logically, all objects in space should be taken into account.\n\nCarl Jung sought to invoke synchronicity, the claim that two events have some sort of acausal connection, to explain the lack of statistically significant results on astrology from a single study he conducted. However, synchronicity itself is considered neither testable nor falsifiable. The study was subsequently heavily criticised for its non-random sample and its use of statistics and also its lack of consistency with astrology.\n\nIt has also been shown that confirmation bias is a psychological factor that contributes to belief in astrology. Confirmation bias is a form of cognitive bias.\n\nFrom the literature, astrology believers often tend to selectively remember those predictions that turned out to be true and do not remember those that turned out false. Another, separate, form of confirmation bias also plays a role, where believers often fail to distinguish between messages that demonstrate special ability and those that do not.\n\nThus there are two distinct forms of confirmation bias that are under study with respect to astrological belief.\n\nThe Barnum effect is the tendency for an individual to give a high accuracy rating to a description of their personality that supposedly tailored specifically for them, but is, in fact, vague and general enough to apply to a wide range of people. If more information is requested for a prediction, the more accepting people are of the results.\n\nIn 1949 Bertram Forer conducted a personality test on students in his classroom. Each student was given a supposedly individual assessment but actually all students received the same assessment. The personality descriptions were taken from a book on astrology. When the students were asked to comment on the accuracy of the test, more than 40% gave it the top mark of 5 out of 5, and the average rating was 4.2. The results of this study have been replicated in numerous other studies.\n\nThe study of the Barnum/Forer effect has been focused mostly on the level of acceptance of fake horoscopes and fake astrological personality profiles. Recipients of these personality assessments consistently fail to distinguish between common and uncommon personality descriptors. In a study by Paul Rogers and Janice Soule (2009), which was consistent with previous research on the issue, it was found that those who believed in astrology are generally more susceptible to giving more credence to the Barnum profile than sceptics.\n\nBy a process known as self-attribution, it has been shown in numerous studies that individuals with knowledge of astrology tend to describe their personalities in terms of traits compatible with their astrological signs. The effect is heightened when the individuals were aware that the personality description was being used to discuss astrology. Individuals who were not familiar with astrology had no such tendency.\n\nIn 1953, sociologist Theodor W. Adorno conducted a study of the astrology column of a Los Angeles newspaper as part of a project that examined mass culture in capitalist society. Adorno believed that popular astrology, as a device, invariably led to statements that encouraged conformity—and that astrologers who went against conformity with statements that discouraged performance at work etc. risked losing their jobs. Adorno concluded that astrology was a large-scale manifestation of systematic irrationalism, where flattery and vague generalisations subtly led individuals to believe the author of the column addressed them directly. Adorno drew a parallel with the phrase opium of the people, by Karl Marx, by commenting, \"Occultism is the metaphysic of the dopes.\"\n\nFalse balance is where a false, unaccepted or spurious viewpoint is included alongside a well reasoned one in media reports and TV appearances and as a result the false balance implies \"there were two equal sides to a story when clearly there were not\". During Wonders of the Solar System, a TV programme by the BBC, the physicist Brian Cox said \"Despite the fact that astrology is a load of rubbish, Jupiter can in fact have a profound influence on our planet. And it’s through a force. . . gravity.\" This upset believers in astrology who complained that there was no astrologer to provide an alternative viewpoint. Following the complaints of astrology believers, Cox gave the following statement to the BBC: \"I apologise to the astrology community for not making myself clear. I should have said that this new age drivel is undermining the very fabric of our civilisation.\" In the programme Stargazing Live, Cox further commented by saying: \"in the interests of balance on the BBC, yes astrology is nonsense.\" In an editorial in the medical journal BMJ, editor Trevor Jackson cited this incident showing where false balance could occur.\n\nStudies and polling has shown that the belief in astrology is higher in western countries than might otherwise be expected. In 2012, in polls 42% of Americans said they thought astrology was at least partially scientific. This belief decreased with education and education is highly correlated with levels of scientific knowledge.\n\nSome of the reported belief levels are due to a confusion of astrology with astronomy (the scientific study of celestial objects). The closeness of the two words varies depending on the language. A plain description of astrology as an \"occult influence of stars, planets etc. on human affairs\" had no impact on the general public's assessment of whether astrology is scientific or not in a 1992 eurobarometer poll. This may partially be due to the implicit association amongst the general public, of any wording ending in \"ology\" with a legitimate field of knowledge. In Eurobarometers 224 and 225 performed in 2004, a split poll was used to isolate confusion over wording. In half of the polls, the word \"astrology\" was used, while in the other the word \"horoscope\" was used. Belief that astrology was at least partially scientific was 76%, but belief that horoscopes were at least partially scientific was 43%. In particular, belief that astrology was very scientific was 26% while that of horoscopes was 7%. This appeared to indicate that the high level of apparent polling support for astrology in the EU was indeed due to confusion over terminology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24190473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24190473", "title": "Asylum (antiquity)", "text": "Asylum (antiquity)\n\nIn ancient Greece and Rome, an asylum referred to a place where people facing persecution could seek refuge. These locations were largely religious in nature, such as temples and other religious sites.\n\nIn ancient Greece the temples, altars, sacred groves, and statues of the gods generally possessed the privileges of protecting slaves, debtors, and criminals, who fled to them for refuge. The laws, however, do not appear to have recognised the right of all such sacred places to afford the protection which was claimed, but to have confined it to a certain number of temples, or altars, which were considered in a more especial manner to have the \"asylia\" (Servius ad Virg. Aen. ii. 761.).\n\nThere were several places in Athens which possessed this privilege, of which the best known was the Theseum, or temple of Theseus, in the city, which was chiefly intended for the protection of the ill-treated slaves, who could take refuge in this place, and compel their masters to sell them to some other person (Plut. Theseus, 36; Schol. ad Aristoph. Equit. 1309; Hesych. and Suidas, s.v.).\n\nThe other places in Athens which possessed the jus asyli were: the Altar of Pity, in the Agora, the altar of Zeus Ayopcuos, the Altar of the Twelve Gods, the altar of the Eumenides on the Areopagus, the Theseum in the Piraeus, and the altar of Artemis, at Munichia (Meier, Alt. Proc. p. 404). Among the most celebrated places of asylum in other parts of Greece, there are the temple of Poseidon in Laconia, on Mount Taenarus (Time. i. 128, 133; Corn. Nep. Pans. c. 4); the temple of Poseidon in Calauria (Pint. Demosth. 29); and the temple of Athena Alea in Tegea (Paus. iii. 5. § 6).\n\nIt would appear, however, that all sacred places were supposed to protect an individual to a certain extent, even if their right to do so was not recognised by the laws of the state, in which they were situated. In such cases, however, as the law gave no protection, it seems to have been considered lawful to use any means in order to compel the individuals who had taken refuge to leave the sanctuary, except dragging them out by personal violence. Thus it was not uncommon to force a person from an altar or a statue of a god, by the application of fire. (Eurip. Androm. 256, with Schol.; Plant. Mostett. v. 1. 65.) Incidents of violation of asylum include the deaths of Cylon of Athens and Pausanias of Sparta. The 464 BC Sparta earthquake has been viewed by the contemporaries as divine vengeance for the Spartan ephors' murder of helots in violation of the asylum in the Tainaron temple.\n\nIn the time of Tiberius, the number of places possessing the jus asyli in the Greek cities in Greece and Asia Minor became so numerous, as seriously to impede the administration of justice. In consequence of this, the senate, by the command of the emperor, limited the jus asyli to a few cities, but did not entirely abolish it, as Suetonius (Tib. 37) has erroneously stated (See Tacit. Ann. iii. 60—63, iv. 14 and Ernesti's Ex cursus to Suet. Tib. 37.).\n\nThe asylum (temple of the god Asylaeus) that Romulus is said to have opened at Rome on the Capitoline Hill, between its two summits, in order to increase the population of the city (Liv. i. 8; Veil. Pat. i. 8; Dionys. ii. 15), was, according to the legend, a place of refuge for the inhabitants of other states, rather than a sanctuary for those who had violated the laws of the city. In the republican and early imperial times, a right of asylum, such as existed in the Greek states, does not appear to have been recognised by the Roman law.\n\nLivy seems to speak of the right (xxxv. 51) as peculiar to the Greeks:—Temphim esi Apollinis Delium— eo jure sancto quo sunt templa quae asyla Graeci ap pellant. By a constitutio of Antoninus Pius, it was decreed that, if a slave in a province fled to the temples of the gods or the statues of the emperors, to avoid the ill-usage of his master, the praeses could compel the master to sell the slave (Gains, i. 53); and the slave was not regarded by the law as a runaway—fugitivus.\n\nThis constitutio of Antoninus is quoted in Justinian's Institutes (1. tit. 8. s. 2), with a slight alteration; the words \"ad aedem sacram\" are substituted for \"ad fana deorum\", since the jus asyli was in his time extended to churches. Those slaves who took refuge at the statue of an emperor were considered to inflict disgrace on their master, as it was reasonably supposed that no slave would take such a step, unless he had received very bad usage from his master. If it could be proved that any individual had instigated the slave of another to flee to the statue of an emperor, he was liable to an action \"corrupti servi\" (Dig. 4-7. tit. 11. s. 5.).\n\nThe right of asylum seems to have been generally, but not entirely, confined to slaves (Dig. 48. tit. 19. s. 28. § 7. Comp. Osiander, De Asylis Gentilium, in Gronov. Thesaur. vol. vi.; Simon, Sur les Asyles, in Mem. de PA cad. des Inscript. vol. iii.; Bringer, De Asylorum Origine, Uau9 et Abusu Lugd. Bat. 1828; C. Neu, De Asylis Gott. 1837; respecting the right of asylum in the churches under the Christian emperors, see Rein, Das Criminalrecht der Romer, p. 896.).\n\nIn ancient Greece the term asylia was also applied to the security from plunder and piracy (\"asylia on land and sea\"), which was sometimes granted by one state to another, or even to single individuals (See Bb'ckh, Corp. Inscrip. i. p. 725.).\n\n"}
{"id": "3504819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3504819", "title": "Baruch Poupko", "text": "Baruch Poupko\n\nRabbi Dr. Baruch (Bernard) Aaron Poupko, born in Velizh, Russia, (a town north of Mogilev) to Rabbi Eliezer and Pesha Poupko, was an American multi-lingual scholar, author, and lecturer.\n\nAfter receiving ordination from Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik at the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary in 1941 he served as Rabbi and Senior Rabbi of Shaare Torah of Pittsburgh, PA (1942–2004), President of the Rabbinical Council of Pittsburgh (1949–1999) and was one of the original founders of the Hillel Academy of Pittsburgh. He was one of the very first Jewish leaders who advocated international efforts on behalf of Soviet Jews during the early 1950s, and wrote the award-winning Yiddish book \"In the Shadow of the Kremlin,\" as well as many articles regarding the plight of Soviet Jewry. Rabbi Poupko's doctoral thesis, completed at the University of Pittsburgh, \"traces the history and status of Jewish religious adult education, analyzing the various emphases in curriculum of the three major religious ideologies.\" (American Jewish Year Book Vol. 66 (1965) 281)\n\nRabbi Poupko edited and co-edited 38 sermon volumes of the Rabbinical Council of America, including the scholarly Anglo-Hebrew volume \"Eidenu\" in memory of the founder and first president of Yeshiva University, Dr. Bernard Revel, the volumes in honor of Chief Rabbi Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog, Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik, and the Centennial of YU, and Dr. Norman Lamm's 20th anniversary as President of YU.\n\nRabbi Poupko served as the National Vice President of the Rabbinical Council of America and as the National President of the Religious Zionists of America. He lived in Seattle, WA with his daughter, Rivy Poupko Kletenik, and son-in-law, Moshe Kletenik. He is the grandfather of Rabbi Chaim Poupko, senior rabbi of congregation Ahavath Torah in Englewood New Jersey, a senior teacher at the Torah Academy of Bergan County, and a member of the RCBC.\n\nRabbi Poupko died on April 14, 2010 in Seattle WA.\n\n"}
{"id": "7574863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7574863", "title": "Bobby Henderson (activist)", "text": "Bobby Henderson (activist)\n\nBobby Henderson (born July 18, 1980) is the founder of Pastafarianism. He is a physics graduate from Oregon State University. He was born in Roseburg, Oregon.\n\nIn 2005, Henderson founded the religion of Pastafarianism in response to the Kansas State Board of Education's decision to spend as much time teaching intelligent design as they did the theory of evolution.\n\nHenderson claims that the Pastafarian theory of the origin of the world should be taught in the same way as intelligent design and the theory of evolution.\n\nPastafarianism asserts that the world was created in one day by the Flying Spaghetti Monster, who created a mountain, then a tree, and finally a midget. The dogmas of Pastafarianism are centered on references to noodles and pirates, and on parodies of creationist theories. Among other things, it is claimed that global warming is the result of the decline of the pirate population.\n\nHenderson is the author of \"The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster\".\n"}
{"id": "12928513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12928513", "title": "Bourj el-Barajneh", "text": "Bourj el-Barajneh\n\nBourj el-Barajneh (, \"Tower of Towers\") is a municipality located in the southern suburbs of Beirut, in Lebanon. The municipality lies between Beirut–Rafic Hariri International Airport and the town of Haret Hreik.\n\nIn the June 7, 2009 parliamentary election in Lebanon, Bourj al-Barajneh voted in the Baabda electoral division.\n\nIts local population is mainly Lebanese Shia Muslims but due to its cheap housing and hospitable locals, it has acquired a sizable Lebanese Sunni Muslims and some Lebanese Maronite Christian because of its proximity to the town of Haret Hreik, as well as refugee populations like Kurds, Iraqis (including Iraqi Assyrians) and other refugee populations like recently arrived Syrian refugees that reside mainly in and around the local Palestinian refugee camp. The town was founded by Arab settlers. It is known as the Barajneh after a rebel who killed a slave of Fakhr-al-Din II (1590–1635).\n\nThe Bourj el-Barajneh Refugee Camp is located at the edge of the municipality. The League of Red Cross Societies established the camp in 1948 to accommodate an influx of Palestinian refugees from present-day northern Israel. The camp was laid siege to by the Israeli army and Lebanese Christian Phalangists during 1982, after Israel invaded Lebanon earlier that year. It (and other Palestinian Camps) was also laid siege to by Amal militia from February 1984 to February 1987 for the control of West Beirut. According to UNRWA more than 20,000 Palestinian refugees live in the camp, though originally only 10,000 were planned to live in the one square kilometer site. After the crisis in Syria, many Syrian refugees moved to the camp, dramatically increasing its population. The camp conditions are horrible, and many deaths are recorded every year from electrocution and collapsing buildings.\n\nOn 12 November 2015, the town of Bourj el-Barajneh was the scene of twin suicide bombings. At least 37 people were killed and more than 180 were injured.\nOne man, father of two, Adel Termos, threw himself on the second bomber and saved countless lives at the cost of his own.\n\n"}
{"id": "40038483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40038483", "title": "Christian finance", "text": "Christian finance\n\nChristian finance is a kind of ethical finance following Christian ethics. Christian finance is characterized by the existence of three dimensions: personal dimension (actors), operational dimension (operations), dogmatic dimension (principles).\n\nAlthough not widely used, the notion of \"Christian finance\" refers to banking and financial activities which came into existence several centuries ago. Whether the activities of the Knights Templar (12th century), Mounts of Piety (appeared in 1462) or the Apostolic Chamber attached directly to the Vatican, a number of operations of a banking nature (money loan, guarantee, etc..) or a financial nature (issuance of securities, investments) is proved, despite the prohibition of usury and the Church distrust against exchange activities (opposed to production activities).\n\nIn modern times, if the Catholic clerical finance continues to be on center stage through the Vatican Bank (IOR), many Catholic lay financial players also exist, both in Germany (e.g. Pax-Bank, Liga Bank, Darlehenskasse DKM) or the United States of America (e.g. Catholic Family Federal Credit Union, Holy Rosary Credit Union). Many other reformed Christian actors exist (e.g. Christian Community Credit Union, Kingdom Bank).\n\nIn France, if the General Union presented ostensibly as a Catholic credit institution, today, social finance (non-religious ethical finance) seems to have completely replaced Christian finance (e.g. Credit coopératif, Caisses de crédit municipal). However, with regard to ethical principles implemented and their historically Catholic origin, many actors of the solidarity finance can be attached to the category of Christian finance (\"Catho-compatible players\").\n\nIf certain financial transactions were explicitly condemned because they circumvented the prohibition of usury (e.g. Mohatra contract), the operations of contemporary Catholic bank is characterized by their search for solidarity and the distribution of benefits in favor of the poor. For example, Liga Bank offers credit cards whose commissions are donated to charities supporting children.\n\nAs Islamic finance, Catholic finance claims to supervise banking operations and financial activities with moral principles directly from the interpretation of Christian religious texts (Bible) and from the doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church (Treaty of virtues and vices, Catholic social teaching). Also, since the subprime financial crisis, it was found that the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace took more often positions on financial matters. In October 2011, was published a note \"Reform of the international financial system with a view toward a general public Authority\".\n\nIn his book \"Catholic Finance\" (in French: “Finance catholique”), Dr. Antoine Cuny de la Verryère presents seven principles for a Catholic finance (named \"princificats\"). Some of them are inspired from the principles of Islamic finance: prohibition of short-termism, prohibition of non-virtuous investment, obligation to give priority to virtuous savings, prohibition of unjust profits, obligation to share profits, obligation of transparency, and obligation of financial exemplary.\n\nThe Christian Finance Observatory (\"OFCCFO\"), a non-profit international organization, gathering professionals of Christian ethical finance, announced in 2015 the publication of a \"Fundamental Charter of Christian Ethical Finance\". First codification of the genre, the Charter considers the various schools of Christian thoughts (Protestant, Catholic and Orthodox) on financial matters and is available in many languages. Beyond general principles, the Charter set out a practical codification of financial practices, and makes sorting between practices considered as virtuous and those considered as non-virtuous. The drafting committee brought together participants from several countries (Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany and France).\n\nS&P Dow Jones Indices created in August 2015 a new index that excludes companies apparently involved in activities that are deemed inconsistent with Catholic values. The OFCCFO's EXCELSIS Rating Committee considered that the product \"S&P 500 Catholic Values Index\" is eligible to the Quality Label EXCELSIS, rating should be \"B-\" (best is A+, worst is C-).\n\nAccording to Russian press, a group of businessmen have started working December 2014 to the creation of an Orthodox bank and investment fund. Archpriest Vsevolod Chaplin has welcomed the project because it would rectify usurious mechanisms.\n"}
{"id": "18535599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18535599", "title": "Crozer Quarterly", "text": "Crozer Quarterly\n\nCrozer Quarterly began publishing in 1924. It is a journal dedicated to religious and theological scholarship.\n"}
{"id": "6895800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6895800", "title": "Dasa sil mata", "text": "Dasa sil mata\n\nA dasa sil mata is an Eight- or Ten Precepts-holding anagārikā (lay renunciant) in Buddhism in Sri Lanka, where the newly reestablished bhikkhuni (nun's) lineage is not officially recognized yet.\n\nThe status of dasa sil matas is in between an ordinary upāsikā (laywoman) and a fully ordained bhikkhuni. They are usually expected to work in viharas, essentially as maids to ordained bhikkhus, rather than receiving training and the opportunity to practice. However, some dasa sil matas have struggled and managed to establish monasteries of their own, where women have the opportunity devote themselves to spiritual training and practice.\n\nIn Cambodia, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, they have established monasteries for anagārikās. Similar orders exist in Thailand, Cambodia and in Myanmar.\n\nIn Thailand, where it is illegal for a woman to take a bhikkhuni ordination, they are called maechi. In Cambodia, they are called donchees. In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a \"rahan-ma\" (\"female monk\"). Sri Lanka's dasa sil matas are recognized by their shaven heads and yellow robes.\n\n"}
{"id": "539139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539139", "title": "Geomantic figures", "text": "Geomantic figures\n\nThe 16 geomantic figures are the primary symbols used in divinatory geomancy. Each geomantic figure represents a certain formed state of the world or the mind, and can be interpreted in various ways based upon the query put forth and the method used to generate the figures. When geomancy was introduced to Europe in the Middle Ages, the figures acquired astrological meanings and new forms of interpretation. The figures bear superficial resemblance to the ba gua, the eight trigrams used in the I Ching, a Chinese classic text.\n\nEach of the figures is composed of four lines, each line containing either one or two points. Each line represents one of the four classical elements: from top to bottom, the lines represent fire, air, water, and earth. When a line has a single point, the element is said to be active; otherwise, with two points, the element is passive. Because there are four lines, and since each line can be either active or passive, there are 2, or 16, different figures. The different combinations of elements yields different representations or manifestations of the figure's energy.\n\nEach figure can be said to have a ruling element, whereby that element's energy and manifestations correlates most closely to the figure itself. With the exception of Populus, the ruling element for each figure is always represented as active (a single point in the corresponding line). For figures with only one active element, that element by default is its ruling element; other combinations of active and passive elements require more introspection to assign rulerships. Populus, consisting of all passive lines, is ruled by Water by its nature of being entirely passive and taking on the reflective qualities of water whenever an outside force acts upon it. \n\nWhile the elements just described are from the geomantic tradition, another set of elemental assignments are used based on the figures' astrological connections. These elements are assigned based on the zodiac sign of a given figure. The geomantic element is said to reflect the nature of a figure when viewed alone; the astrological element reflects its nature when acting with other figures.\n\nAnother classification of the geomantic figures involves their quality, which is either \"stable\" or \"mobile\". The quality of a figure represents its duration of effect or motion, such that a figure with a stable quality will represent a long-term situation or that a certain object remains where it was left, while a mobile figure represents a transient effect upon the real world. In simple \"yes or no\" style divinations, stable figures indicate a positive answer, while mobile figures indicate a negative one.\n\nOriginally, the quality was shown in terms of \"entering\" or \"exiting\" figures, where, from the viewer's point of view, the figure would be pointing towards (downward) or away from (upward) the viewer. Entering figures have the stable quality, while the exiting figures have the mobile quality; when an entering figure is rotated upside-down, it becomes an exiting figure, and vice versa. However, based on this classification, the four figures that point in both directions regardless of rotation have the quality of both entering and exiting, and must be evaluated in terms of its neighbors or generating figures.\n\nIn the generation of the geomantic charts, the primary answer is given by the figure called the Judge. Based upon the mathematics involved in generating the charts, the Judge figure must always have an even number of points. For this reason, all the figures that can appear as Judges (i.e. have an even number of points) are also termed \"impartial\" figures; they represent objective states of the world observable equally by any party. The ones with odd numbers of points are termed \"partial\" or \"personal\" due to their subjective and emotional nature.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, when geomancy was introduced to Europe where astrology was the foremost occult science, the geomantic figures obtained astrological correspondences to the Zodiac and to the planets. Based on their zodiacal correspondences, astrologers assigned new elemental rulerships (henceforth known as outer elemental rulers, whereas the previous elemental assignments will be known as inner elemental rulers) based on the element of their zodiacal ruler. The exceptions to the planetary rulerships were the figures Cauda Draconis and Caput Draconis, which were assigned to the northern and southern lunar nodes instead.\n\nTraditionally, the energies and manifestations of the planets were different based on their declination or motion; for the planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, the diurnal energy represents the planet in direct motion, while the nocturnal energy refers to the retrograde motion of the planets. For the Moon, this was illustrated by the waxing or waning periods of the Moon, respectively; the Sun's figures were based on the Sun during the day (or northern declination) or during the night (southern declination). The zodiacal rulerships followed from the diurnal or nocturnal planetary rulership: nocturnal figures are assigned earth and water signs, while diurnal figures are assigned fire and air signs. The North Node is assigned, by Gerard of Cremona, to Sagittarius and the South Node to Virgo (for the sake of finding the ascendant in astrological traditions of geomancy). Once the zodiacal rulerships were agreed upon, all the following correspondences followed upon the geomantic figures, including what part of the body they each ruled over, different countries, planetary hours, body and character types, and so on.\n\nThe structure of the figures themselves can be directly translated into binary numbers, such as those used by modern computers, with passive lines representing the numeral 0 (or logic low) and active lines representing the numeral 1 (or logic high). This structure is exploited in computation of more figures by means of the XOR function used widely in computer science and electrical systems; when two figures are \"added\" to form a new figure (where points in the lines of the same elements are summed, divided by two, and the remainder taken), the logical operation obtains the new figure by determining which lines are different. The lines that have different numbers of points results in a line with one point (logic high), and lines with the same number of points results in a line with two points (logic low). The result of adding two figures is usually interpreted to mean the interaction between the two parties (the parent figures) or the present situation (when one parent represents the past and the other parent represents the future).\n\nIn the same fashion how Boolean values or binary numbers can be inverted, geomantic figures can likewise be inverted. By inversion, figures whose lines are active become passive and vice versa. In this manner, Puer becomes Albus, Populus becomes Via, and so forth. Inversion represents a polarity of action, e.g. the rashness of Puer balanced by the calmness of Albus.\n\nReversion, or rotation, of figures is the process that replaces the fire line of a figure with the earth line, the air line with the water line, and vice versa. By reversion, Puer and Puella are reverted pairs, as are Rubeus and Albus. Not all figures have a unique reversion: the figures that are neither entering nor exiting revert into themselves, and the other figures with even points revert into their inverted figure. Reversion often represents an axial polarity, such as the male and female axis between Puer and Puella.\n\nLatin for \"the Way\". The figure resembles a road or path. It is considered bad of most things, but good with concerns of roads, travels, or journeys. Astrologically it is associated with Cancer and the waning Moon, and both its inner and outer elements are water. All the elements in Via are active, and as such the figure indicates change more than any other figure. Regarding the outcome of the situation being divined, it is neutral, unless change by itself infers a positive or negative result. This figure inverts any figure when added, giving it another meaning of change. Its planetary ruler is Chashmodai, its Intelligence is the Intelligence of Intelligences Malkah beTarshishim ve-ad Ruachoth Shechalim, and its Spirit is the Spirit of Spirits is Shad Barshemoth ha-Shartathan. It is associated with the deities Diana and Mercurius, and the angels Gabriel and Muriel. It is associated with the stomach.\n\nLatin for \"the Tail of the Dragon\" and the figure of the south node of the Moon. It is considered very bad in most situations, such that in older traditions if this was the first figure drawn the geomancy reading was stopped. It is only good in circumstances for ending or completing things, such as breaking up a relationship. It brings good with evil, and evil with good. It is associated with the malefic planets Saturn and Mars, and the astrological sign Virgo. Its inner and outer element are both fire. Its planetary intelligences are Agiel and Graphiel, and its spirits are Zazel and Bartzabel; it is associated with the deities Mavors, Saeturnus, and Athena, and the angels Cassiel, Samael and Malchidael. It is associated with the left arm.\n\nLatin for \"the Boy\". The figure is a representation of a sword or erect phallus and refers to male energies, primarily aggression and passion, but also war and male sexuality. It is bad in most cases, but good in situations where boys (in Antiquity and Medieval society) excelled: love and war. Astrologically it is associated with Aries and Mars. All elements are active except Water, the element of emotion; its inner element is air, but due to it being ruled by Mars, its outer element is fire. Its planetary intelligence is Graphiel and its spirit is Bartzabel; it is associated with the deities Mavors and Athena, and the angels Samael and Malchidael. It is associated with the head.\n\nLatin for \"the Lesser Fortune\". The figure is symbolic of success coming down like beams of light from the Sun. Astrologically it is associated with Leo and the Sun in southern declinations; both its inner and outer elemental rulers are fire. It indicates a weakly positive outcome in nearly all questions, representing transient success that is dependent upon outside help. It favors situations that can be resolved quickly and do not need to be sustained. It is a figure of change and instability. Its planetary intelligence is Nakhiel and its spirit is Sorath; it is associated with the deities Apollo and Jupiter, and the angels Michael and Verchiel. It is associated with the spine.\n\nLatin for \"the Girl\". The figure is to resemble the vulva or a woman with exaggerated breasts. It is good in most situations, especially with women, beauty, or feminine situations. Astrologically it is associated with Libra and Venus; its outer element is air, but its inner element is water. It represents peace and passivity, which can be either positive or negative depending on the question being answered, though generally positive, requiring to be acted upon instead of it acting on a situation. It is the symbol of feminine sexuality, balancing the energy of Puer. Its planetary intelligence is Hagiel and its spirit is Kedemel; it is associated with the deities Venus and Vulcanus, and the angels Anael and Zuriel. It is associated with the kidneys, lower back, buttocks, and skin.\n\nLatin for \"Loss\". The figure is of two bowls or cups turned upside-down. Astrologically, it is associated with Taurus and Venus retrograde. Its inner element is fire but ruled outwardly by earth. In general, the figure is bad or negative figure for all charts except those for love (being a figure of Venus) or where loss is desired and denotes loss. Often it represents something outside of one's grasp. Its planetary intelligence is Hagiel and its spirit is Kedemel; it is associated with the goddess Venus, and the angels Anael and Asmodel. It is associated with the neck and throat.\n\nLatin for \"the Prison\". The figure is the outline of an enclosure, a link in a chain, or prison cell. It is usually bad in situations and denotes delays, setbacks, or bindings. Astrologically it is associated with Capricorn and Saturn retrograde; its inner and outer element is earth. It refers to immobility, and also thereby strength. Depending on the question it could indicate a restriction or a source of willpower. It is generally unfavourable, but can be favourable in questions involving stability or security. Its planetary intelligence is Agiel and its spirit is Zazel; it is associated with the deities Saeturnus and Vesta, and the angels Cassiel and Hanael. It is associated with the knees and skeletal system of the body.\n\nLatin for \"Joy\". The figure resembles an arch, fountain, or rainbow. It is good in situations that concern potential, joy, or happiness. Astrologically it is associated with Pisces and Jupiter retrograde. It is ruled externally by water, but inwardly by fire. It is a positive figure for nearly all questions, representing fast situations and construction. It indicates upward motion, happiness, or joy. Its planetary intelligence is Iophiel and its spirit is Hismael; it is associated with the deities Jove and Neptunus, and the angels Sachiel and Barchiel. It is associated with the feet.\n\nLatin for \"the Head of the Dragon\". The figure resembles the astrological symbol the north node of the Moon. It is neutral figure (good with good, evil with evil) but fortunate with starting or beginning new things. It is favourable for beginnings and profit, and otherwise favourable with other favourable figures, and unfavourable with unfavourable ones. It is associated with the benefic planets Jupiter and Venus, and assigned to the zodiac sign of Sagittarius; its outer element is fire due to its association with Sagittarius while its inner element is earth. Its planetary intelligences are Iophiel and Hagiel and its spirits are Hismael and Kedemel; it is associated with the deities Venus, Iove, and Vulcanus, and the angels Sachiel, Anael, and Zuriel. It is associated with the right arm.\n\nLatin for \"the Conjunction\". The figure resembles a crossroads or joining of two figures. The sign is neutral in meaning (good in good things, evil in evil), but good with joining or recovering things, especially marriage or relationships. Astrologically it is associated with Virgo and Mercury retrograde. It represents a combination of forces, for good or ill. By itself, it is neutral, only becoming favourable or not by other figures around it. Its outer element is earth, while its inner element is air. Its planetary intelligence is Tiriel and its spirit is Taphthartharath; it is associated with the deities Mercurius and Ceres, and the angels Raphael and Hamaliel. It is associated with the intestines and digestive system.\n\nLatin for \"Gain\". The figure resembles two bowls or cups turned upright. It is good in almost all situations, especially for getting and obtaining things. Astrologically it is associated with Sagittarius and Jupiter, with its outer element ruled by fire and its inner element ruled by air. For most charts it is a positive figure, except where a loss is desired. It indicates a gain financially, mentally, or in any other form, or something within one's grasp. Its planetary intelligence is Iophiel and its spirit is Hismael; it is associated with the deities Jove and Diana, and the angels Sachiel and Adnachiel. It is associated with the hips and thighs.\n\nLatin for \"Red\". The figure is an overturned glass; an inversion, meaning good in all that is evil, and evil in all that is good. Like the Tail of the Dragon, the figure is considered so unfavourable that if it were the first in a reading, the reading would end. Astrologically it is associated with Scorpio and Mars retrograde; its inner element is ruled by air, and its outer element ruled by water. It represents passion, deception, violence, and vice. Its planetary intelligence is Graphiel and its spirit is Bartzabel; it is associated with the god Mavors, and the angels Samael and Barbiel. It is associated with the reproductive and excretory systems along with the genitals.\n\nLatin for \"the Greater Fortune\". The figure resembles blessings growing from the earth and being fruitful in the air. It is good in all situations in a best case scenario sense and represents great good fortune, especially in beginnings. Astrologically it is associated with Leo, like Fortuna Minor, but by the Sun in northern declinations. Its inner element is earth while its outer element is fire. It denotes power and success, and so is very favourable in conflicts and contests; being a figure of stability and long-term success, it also denotes hardship at the outset of an endeavor. Its planetary intelligence is Nakhiel and its spirit is Sorath; it is associated with the deities Apollo and Jupiter, and the angels Michael and Verchiel. It is associated with the heart and chest.\n\nLatin for \"White\". The figure resembles an upright glass or goblet. It is good in most situations, especially with good figures in company, but itself is a weak figure. Astrologically it is associated with Gemini and Mercury; even though its inner element is water, its outer element is air. It represents peace, wisdom and purity. It benefits beginnings and profit, or any situation where careful and deliberate planning is needed. Its planetary intelligence is Tiriel and its spirit is Taphthartharath; it is associated with the deities Mercurius and Apollo, and the angels Raphael and Ambriel. It is associated with the shoulders and lungs.\n\nLatin for \"Sorrow\". The figure resembles a broken arch or a stake being driven into the ground. It is bad in most cases and connotes sadness or mourning. Astrologically it is associated with Aquarius and Saturn. Tristitia is an unfavorable figure in almost all questions, usually representing pain and suffering. However, it is favorable in questions dealing with stability, building, or the Earth (such as agriculture). Its outer element is air and inner element is earth. Its planetary intelligence is Agiel and its spirit is Zazel; it is associated with the deities Saeturnus and Juno, and the angels Cassiel and Gabriel. It is associated with the ankles and lower legs.\n\nLatin for \"the People\". The figure resembles a bird's eye view of a group of people. The figure can mean that the outcome is based on the people of the situation, or represents a large number of people or peers. Astrologically it is associated with Cancer and the waxing Moon; both its inner and outer elements are water. It refers to a gathering or assembly of people and is very neutral, for though there may be a great deal of movement within the crowd, there is very little effect on the crowd as a whole. It is favorable with favorable figures, and unfavorable with unfavorable ones. Its planetary ruler is Chashmodai, its Intelligence is the Intelligence of Intelligences Malkah beTarshishim ve-ad Ruachoth Shechalim, and its Spirit is the Spirit of Spirits is Shad Barshemoth ha-Shartathan. It is associated with the deities Diana and Mercurius, and the angels Gabriel and Muriel. It is associated with the breasts and torso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40625584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40625584", "title": "Gruppo del Rosario", "text": "Gruppo del Rosario\n\nGruppo del Rosario (Rosary Prayer Group) is an Italian apocalyptic cult, primarily active from 1973 to 1989, although remnants of the cult existed as late as 2010. In May 1988, 35 of its members, including its then leader, Lidia Naccarato, were arrested following the brutal murder of a fellow member. The sect has been the subject of several studies by the Italian psychiatrist Mario Di Fiorino.\n"}
{"id": "3664575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3664575", "title": "Hinduism in Afghanistan", "text": "Hinduism in Afghanistan\n\nHinduism in Afghanistan is practiced by a tiny minority of Afghans, believed to be about 1,000 individuals who live mostly in Kabul and other major cities of the country.\n\nBefore the Islamic conquest of Afghanistan, the Afghan people were multi-religious. The majority were followers of Hinduism and Buddhism. Most Hindu temples were destroyed or converted into mosques by the 11th century.\n\nThere is no reliable information on when Hinduism began in Afghanistan but historians suggest that the territory south of the Hindu Kush was culturally connected with the Indus Valley Civilization in ancient times. At the same time, most historians maintain that Afghanistan was inhabited by ancient Arians tribes followed by the Achaemenid before the arrival of Alexander the Great and his Greek army in 330 BC. It became part of the Seleucid Empire after the departure of Alexander three years later. In 305 BCE, the Seleucid Empire lost control of the territory south of the Hindu Kush to the Indian Maurya Empire as result of the Seleucid-Mauryan War.\n\nWhen Chinese travelers, Faxian, Song Yun and Xuanzang explored Afghanistan between the 5th and 7th centuries AD, they wrote numerous travelogues in which reliable information on Afghanistan was stored. They stated that Buddhism was practiced in different parts between the Amu Darya (Oxus River) in the north and the Indus River. However, they did not mention much about Hinduism although Song Yun did state that the Hephthalite rulers did not recognize Buddhism but \"preached pseudo gods and killed animals for their meat\". The Chinese monks were followers of Buddhism, it is possible that they had no interest in writing about other religions. In addition, traveling in the Afghanistan region was too risky due to warlords and bandits.\n\nBefore the Islamic conquest of Afghanistan, the territory was a religious sediment of Zoroastrianism (northeast), Paganism (south and east), Buddhism (southeast), Hinduism (Kabul/Logar) and others. It was inhabited by various peoples, including Persians, Khalaj, Turks, and Afghans. South of the Hindu Kush was ruled by the Zunbils, offspring of the southern-Hephthalite. The east was controlled by the Kabul Shahis. The Zunbil and Kabul Shahis were connected by culture with the rest of the Indian subcontinent. The Zunbil kings worshipped a sun god by the name of \"Zun\" from which they derived their name. Some contemporary historians wrongly assume that everyone who worshipped idols in South Asia were Hindus. For example, André Wink writes that \"the cult of Zun was primarily Hindu, not Buddhist or Zoroastrian.\" Not all idol worship is considered part of Hinduism. Idol worship existed all over the world, including in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn 653–654 AD, Abdur Rahman bin Samara along with 6,000 Arab Muslims penetrated the Zunbil territory and made their way to the shrine of \"Zun\" in Zamindawar, which was believed to be located about three miles south of Musa Qala in today's Helmand Province of Afghanistan. The General of the Arab army \"broke of a hand of the idol and plucked out the rubies which were its eyes in order to persuade the Marzbān of Sīstān of the god's worthlessness.\"\n\nThe Kabul Shahi ruled north of the Zunbil territory, which included Kabulistan and Gandahara. The Arabs reached Kabul with the message of Islam but were not able to rule for long. The Kabul Shahis decided to build a giant wall around the city to prevent more Arab invasions, this wall is still visible today.\n\nWillem Vogelsang in his 2002 book writes: \"During the eighth and ninth centuries AD the eastern parts of modern Afghanistan were still in the hands of non-Muslim rulers. The Muslims tended to regard them as Indians, although many of the local rulers were apparently of Hunnic or Turkic descent. Yet, the Muslims were right in so far as the non Muslim population of Eastern Afghanistan was, culturally, strongly linked to the Indian sub-continent. Most of them were either Hindus or Buddhists.\" In 870 AD the Saffarids from Zaranj conquered most of Afghanistan, establishing Muslim governors throughout the land. It is reported that Muslims and non-Muslims still lived side by side before the arrival of the Ghaznavids in the 10th century.\n\nThe first confirmed mention of a \"Hindu\" in Afghanistan appears in the 982 AD Ḥudūd al-ʿĀlam, where it speaks of a king in \"Ninhar\" (Nangarhar), who shows a public display of conversion to Islam, even though he had over 30 wives, which are described as \"Muslim, Afghan, and Hindu\" wives. These names were often used as geographical terms. For example, \"Hindu\" (or \"Hindustani\") has been historically used as a geographical term to describe someone who was native from the region known as Hindustan (Indian subcontinent), and \"Afghan\" as someone who was native from a region called \"Afghanistan\".\n\nMartin Ewans in his 2002 book writes: \"Even then a Hindu dynasty the Hindu Shahis, held Gandhara and the eastern borders. From the tenth century onwards as Persian language and culture continued to spread into Afghanistan, the focus of power shifted to Ghazni, where a Turkish dynasty, who started by ruling the town for the Samanid dynasty of Bokhara, proceeded to create an empire in their own right. The greatest of the Ghaznavids was Mahmud who ruled between 998 and 1030. He expelled the Hindus from Ghandhara, made no fewer than 17 raids into India. He encouraged mass conversions to Islam, in Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan.\"\n\nWhen Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni began crossing the Indus River into Hindustan (land of Hindus) in the 10th century, the Ghaznavid Muslims began bringing Hindu slaves to what is now Afghanistan. Al-Idirisi testifies that until as late as the 12th century, a contract of investiture for every Shahi king was performed at Kabul and that here he was obliged to agree to certain ancient conditions which completed the contract. The Ghaznavid military incursions assured the domination of Sunni Islam in what is now Afghanistan and Pakistan. Various historical sources such as Martin Ewans, E.J. Brill and Farishta have recorded the introduction of Islam to Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan to the conquests of and Mahmud:\n\nThe Ghaznavid Empire was further expanded by the Ghurids. During the Khalji dynasty, there was also free movement between people from India and Afghanistan. It continued this way until the Mughals followed by the Suris and the Durranis.\n\nThe main ethnic groups in Afghanistan which practice Hinduism today are the Punjabis and Sindhis who are believed to have come along with Sikhs as merchants to Afghanistan in the 19th century. Before the Soviet–Afghan War, there were several thousand Hindus living in the country but today their number is only about 1,000. Most of the others immigrated to India, the European Union, North America or elsewhere.\n\nAfghan Hindus and Afghan Sikhs often share places of worship. The main ethnic groups in Afghanistan which practice Hinduism are the Punjabis, and Sindhis who came as merchants to the region in the 19th century. They once dominated the Afghan economy. Along with the Sikhs, they are all collectively known by some as Hindki. Linguistic demographics among the Hindu community are diverse and generally follow regional origins: those hailing from Punjab generally speak Punjabi, Sindhis speak Sindhi, Kabulis and Kandharis speak both Pashto and the northern and southern dialects of Hindko. The local Hindu community in Afghanistan is mostly based in the city of Kabul. The 2002 loya jirga had two seats reserved for Hindus and former President Hamid Karzai's economic advisor was an Afghan Hindu.\n\nDuring the Taliban 1996 to late 2001 rule, Hindus were forced to wear yellow badges in public to identify themselves as non-Muslims so they would not be punished for not going to mosques during prayer times. Hindu women were forced to wear burqas, ostensibly a measure to \"protect\" them from harassment. This was part of the Taliban's plan to segregate \"un-Islamic\" and \"idolatrous\" communities from Islamic ones.\n\nThe decree was condemned by the Indian and U.S. governments as a violation of religious freedom. Widespread protests against the Taliban regime broke out in Bhopal, India. In the United States, Abraham Foxman, chairman of the Anti-Defamation League, compared the decree to the practices of Nazi Germany, where Jews were required to wear labels identifying them as such. Several influential lawmakers in the United States wore yellow badges with the inscription \"I am a Hindu\", on the floor of the Senate during the debate as a demonstration of their solidarity with the Hindu minority in Afghanistan.\n\nIndian analyst Rahul Banerjee said that this was not the first time that Hindus were singled out for state-sponsored oppression in Afghanistan. Violence against Hindus has caused a rapid depletion in the Hindu population over the years. Since the 1990s, many Afghan Hindus have fled the country, seeking asylum in countries such as India, Germany and United States.\n\nIn July 2013, the Afghan parliament refused to reserve seats for the minority group as a bill reserving seats for the mentioned was voted against. The bill by the then president Hamid Karzai, had tribal people and \"women\" as \"vulnerable groups\" who got reservation, but not religious minorities as per the religious equality article in the constitution.\n\nMeeta Jaitley, late mother of Celina Jaitley was born in Kabul to a Hindu family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1068671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068671", "title": "Index of Catholic Church articles", "text": "Index of Catholic Church articles\n\n\"See also: Catholic Church, Glossary of the Catholic Church, Outline of Catholicism, Timeline of the Catholic Church, Index of Vatican City-related articles\"\n\nThis page is a list of Catholic Church topics. and are at the bottom of the page. For a listing of Catholic Church articles by , see (and its various subcategories and pages) at the bottom of the page.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55715953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55715953", "title": "Indrasala Cave", "text": "Indrasala Cave\n\nThe Indasala Cave, also called Indrasila Guha or Indrasaila Cave, is a cave site mentioned in Buddhist texts. It is stated in Buddhist mythology to be the cave where Buddha lived for a while, and gave the sermon called the Sakkapañha Sutta to deity Indra. This \"Sutta\" is found as chapter II.21 of \"Digha Nikaya\". In this sermon, the Buddha addresses Sakya (also known as Indra) accompanied by Pancasikha (also known as Kubera). After some harp-playing by Pancasikha, Indra asks 42 questions to the Buddha, which he answers. The teachings in this Indrasala Cave \"Sutta\" is, in part, the basis for the Theravada tradition of \"punna\" (earning merit) and \"varam\" (favor).\n\nThe legend is generally believed to be mythical. Some scholars, since the 19th century, have attempted to identify the location of the cave that may reflect one of the places the Buddha lived. One such location is in modern Giryak, Bihar. It has also been identified with a location on the Vediyaka hill near Rajagrha.\n\nNumerous depictions of the scene are known, the earliest being those of the Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya, circa 150 BCE. In a Gandhara artwork dated to 89 CE, the scene \"Visit to the Indrasala Cave\" is depicted with Indra identifiable with his elephant seated to the right, the Buddha is shown living in a cave by the wavy rocky landscape with wild animals above.\n\n"}
{"id": "55826627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55826627", "title": "Jean Robin (writer)", "text": "Jean Robin (writer)\n\nJean Robin (born in 1946) is a French writer and essayist, particularly interested in occult and esoteric issues, secret societies and their influence throughout history.\n\nIt was at the beginning of his career at Éditions Robert Laffont that Jean Robin discovered René Guénon's writings.\n\nHe subsequently produced the text (\"René Guénon témoin de la Tradition\", 1978),\n\nThe theme central to his work is eschatology, which refers to the events that are thought to accompany the \"end of our world\" or historical-cosmological cycle. It is from the point of view of eschatology and with a Guenonian approach that he writes about themes such as \"so-called aliens\", anti-initiation manipulation,\nand the History of France and its mysteries.\n\n\nJean Robin has contributed to several magazines:\n\n"}
{"id": "8876176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8876176", "title": "Jewish Communist Party (Poalei Zion)", "text": "Jewish Communist Party (Poalei Zion)\n\n\"This article is about a party in Russia. For the party in Palestine see Socialist Workers Party (Palestine)\"\n\nJewish Communist Party (Poalei Zion) (, \"Evreĭskaia kommunisticheskaia partiia (Poaleĭ-Tsion)\", abbreviated EKP) was a political party in Russia 1919-1922. The party was formed at a conference of communist dissident fractions of the Jewish Social Democratic Labour Party (Poalei Zion), held in Gomel August 10-15, 1919. Members of the party were nick-named 'EKOP-ists'. It was affiliated to the Jewish Communist Union (Poalei Zion).\n\nEKP argued in favour of a merger with the Bund, to form a Jewish section of the Communist International. The proposed Jewish Comintern section would work under the aegis of the national communist party in each country, apart from Palestine. EKP was fiercely opposed to the Yevsektsiya, the Jewish Section of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks).\n\nThe II All-Russian conference of the EKP was held in July 1920 in Kharkov. The IV Congress of was held in August 1921 and the III All-Russian conference was held 1-2 December 1922 in Moscow.\n\nThe party was represented in the Council for Propaganda and Action of the Peoples of the East of the Communist International through Zajma Ostrovsky, who participated in the 1920 Congress of the Peoples of the East, held in Baku, Azerbaijan (part of Soviet Russia).\n\nIn its later phase the party passed through severe internal disputes. The fact that the Komfarband merged with RCP(b) in March 1921 weakened the case for the formation of a Jewish Comintern section and sparked a debate on RCP(b)-EKP merger within the party.\n\nIn 1922 the party merged into the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks) and many of its members became involved in the Yevsektsiya. \n\nThe EKP occupied a strong position in Baku after the arrival of the 11th Soviet Red Army. The Jewish population of the city grew considerably in those years because of the pogroms committed by the White Army in Ukraine Belarus and Russia that led many Jews to find shelter in Azerbaijan, a country without an antisemitic tradition. The fact that the Jewish population had grown up to 13,700 persons helped the EKP (as well as the Communist Bund, the Yevsektsiya and the Zionist parties) to enlarge its membership in the area. The EKP promoted many cultural activities and struggled for the eliminination of illiteracy, in particular among the Mountain Jews. In 1921 the \"betsalel\" circles were opened in Baku. In those places it was possible to organize literature and Jewish drama courses.\n\nThe party was led by a Central Committee and a Politburo. The organ of the Central Committee of EKP was \"Nakanune\" ('Накануне'). In Ukraine, the party Central Committee had a Right-bank Bureau (\"Pravbirou\") and a Left-bank Bureau. The Belorussian EKP was headed by a Chief Committee. Moreover, the party had a Caucasus Regional Committee. The youth wing of the party was called Jewish Communist Youth Union.\n\nEKP maintained a party school in Kharkov, named after Ber Borochov.\n\n"}
{"id": "18717290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18717290", "title": "Jews and Buddhism", "text": "Jews and Buddhism\n\nJews and Buddhism: Belief Amended, Faith Revealed (1999) is a documentary narrated by Sharon Stone that compiles interviews and archival footage of prominent Jewish, Buddhist, and Jewish-Buddhist personalities—including the Dalai Lama, David Ben-Gurion, Allen Ginsberg, Rabbi Allen Lew, Sylvia Boorstein, and many others—to explore the new phenomenon of American Jews who have expanded their faith by drawing from Buddhist traditions.\n\nMore than 30% of non-Asian Buddhists are Jews – and many have become leaders in the spiritual movement. [May 29, 2010: The latest Pew Forum research shows that this number is highly suspect. The real number is probably no more than 6%.]\n\nThe influence of Buddhism is profoundly changing what it means to worship at synagogue. Rabbi Allen Lew explains that in his synagogue he leads his followers in meditation before prayer services four times a week. He believes that Buddhist practices can open spiritual doors to enhance Jewish tradition.\n\nBeat poet Allen Ginsberg, who considered himself a non-theistic Jew, found solace in Eastern religion. A leader in the counterculture movement, Ginsberg explored Buddhist meditation and belief and expressed his spiritual discontent in his poetry. \"Jerusalems hated walls, I couldn't get over the holy side and weep where I was supposed to by history,\" he wrote cynically about his trip to Israel in the poem \"Angkor Wat\", continuing, \"Returning home at last, years later as prophesied, is this the way I'm supposed to feel?\"\n\nJudaism and Buddhism are not complementary ideologies that always fit snugly inside one another. The film points to the fact that the ancient traditions have profound, unavoidable differences. For one thing, most Jews believe in one God, and Buddhists believe in no God.\n\nThe film shows an archival television interview of Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion and his old friend, the Buddhist former Prime Minister of Burma as they discuss religion. Before they begin, the Prime Minister from Burma blurts out, \"How is your wife? How is Mrs. Ben-Gurion?\" His question is full of genuine interest and sets the tone of their debate, what seems to be the understanding that their religious differences are trumped by something more important—their human connection.\n\n\n\nOther films about American Jews:\n\n"}
{"id": "10567936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10567936", "title": "Kenneth Pargament", "text": "Kenneth Pargament\n\nKenneth I. Pargament (born November 3, 1950) is an emeritus professor of psychology at Bowling Green State University (Ohio, USA).\n\nBorn in 1950 in Washington, D.C., Pargament received his Ph.D. from the University of Maryland in 1977. He currently studies various relationships between religion, psychological well-being and stress, as well as other closely related subjects. He is also licensed in Clinical Psychology and has a private practice.\n\nPargament has published over 200 papers on the subject of religion and spirituality in psychology. He is world-renowned for his scholarly contributions to the psychology of religion, and for providing clinically relevant scientific analyses of religion's role in mental health. Pargament has also written two books: \"The Psychology of Religion and Coping: Theory, Research, Practice\" (1997; see article), and \"Spiritually Integrated Psychotherapy: Understanding and Addressing the Sacred\" (2007). Both of these seminal works provide a systematic program of empirical research, guided by theory, that is of practical relevance to helping professionals.\n\nOne of Pargament's best known areas of research has pertained to Religious Coping, which involves drawing on religious beliefs and practices to understand and deal with life stressors. Pargament has also helped to design a questionnaire called the \"RCOPE\" to measure Religious Coping strategies.\nThe three methods of coping that are identified by the RCOPE are the deferring style, self-directing style, and collaborative style. The deferring style involves delegating all problem solving to God; the self-directing style is when the individual chooses to utilize the power God has given them to solve the problem on their own; and the collaborative style is implemented when the individual treats God as a teammate in the problem solving process. The collaborative style of religious coping has been found to have the greatest psychological benefits, correlating with increased self-esteem and lower levels of depression.\nThus, Pargament's work has helped set the stage for a large scale program of research on this subject: currently there have been over 250 published studies on religious coping.\n\nPargament's research also has helped psychologists learn how religious belief influences mental and physical health. For instance, he found that religious activity increased for Muslim-Americans after 9/11, and that in comparison with those who remained isolated and rejected by their religion, they experienced fewer symptoms of depression Similarly, he found that negative religious coping among AIDS patients was associated with an increase in HIV-related symptoms \n\nPargament has described four major stances toward religion that have been adopted by psychotherapists in their work with clients. He called them the religiously \"rejectionist\", \"exclusivist\", \"constructivist\", and \"pluralist\" stances. He claims that the pluralistic approach is the best for clinicians because it recognizes the existence of a Supreme Being but allows for many interpretations of that reality.\nFurthermore, Pargament believes that religious discussions should become a greater part of the therapeutic process. He has advocated for religious guidebooks to be created for psychotherapists and that religious training be mandated.\n\nPargament has also linked attribution theory to the psychology of religion, doing empirical research distinguishing between different forms of religious attribution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6237789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6237789", "title": "Latin Mass Society of Australia", "text": "Latin Mass Society of Australia\n\nIn 2018 a new Incorporated Association was formed for the promotion of the Latin Mass throughout Australia. For more information please visit their website. The current LMSAUS has no affiliation or association with the previous LMS and/or its members.\n\nLatin Mass Society of Australia was an organisation that was led primarily by Roman Catholics adhering to the positions of the international Society of St. Pius X. The Latin Mass Society of Australia was founded in Sydney in the early 1970s by a group of Catholics who were dissatisfied with the changes to the rite of the Catholic Mass---both the fact that it was no longer in Latin, and also changes to the traditional Tridentine rite itself, which to them denoted huge symbolic alterations. For instance, that the priest now faced the congregation rather than standing in front of the altar (seen as turning away from worshiping God towards addressing people); that the altar was more and more like a table (this was seen as denigrating the sacrificial nature of the Mass) and letting people touch the Host at Communion (seen as a kind of blasphemy—only the priest's consecrated hands should touch it). People saw this as a creeping Protestantism.\n\nMany people in the LMS were also upset by other changes to the Church generally, since Vatican II in the 1960s. A minority did not like, for instance, the fact that the Church absolved the Jews of 33 AD of any complicity, direct or otherwise, in the death of Christ. Most people in the LMS accepted the authority of the Pope, but believed he was in error; others, like Hutton Gibson, came to believe the Popes since at least John XXIII were not 'real Popes' but heretical usurpers, and that the 'chair of St Peter' had been vacant since then. The latter position is known as sedevacantism .\n\nReactions to the LMS from the 'official' Church as it became known to LMS members were quite strong. Some very heavy-handed tactics were assumed; banning parish priests from allowing their churches to have Latin Masses celebrated in them (this resulted in the Sydney branch holding its weekly Mass in the East Lindfield Community Hall), banning priests and denying them their pensions, such as the LMS' officiating priest, Father Patrick Fox, not only from celebrating Mass, but removing him from all duties, and constantly accusing LMS members of being 'heretics'. The reactions of the LMS to the hierarchy of the modern Church were equally heavy-handed, and the LMS was driven further and further from the 'bosom of the Church.'\n\n"}
{"id": "12686225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686225", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Panama", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Panama\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Panama comprises one ecclesiastical province each headed by an archbishop. The province is in turn subdivided into 5 dioceses, 1 territorial prelature and 1 archdiocese each headed by a bishop or an archbishop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21135664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21135664", "title": "List of Chinese Bible translations", "text": "List of Chinese Bible translations\n\nThis is list of the Bible translations to Chinese language.\n\nBible translations into Chinese began with unpublished manuscripts by individual Roman Catholic priests in the sixteenth century and individual Protestant missionaries in the early nineteenth century. The first complete translation to be published was that of Joshua Marshman in 1813, followed by that of Robert Morrison in 1823. A group of Protestant missionaries in Hong Kong in 1843 started a collaborative translation. The New Testament of their so-called \"Delegates Version\" was published in 1850 and the Old Testament in 1853. A translation of the Old Testament by Karl Gutzlaff, first published in 1840, was widely distributed and was used by the leaders of the Taiping Rebellion as the basis of their theological study.\n\nThe second half of the century saw the publication of Chinese Bibles in regional languages using romanization rather than Chinese characters, the first works printed in the regional language. The Classical Chinese of the Delegates Version could not be understood when read aloud, and towards the end of the century the national missionary body started a revision which used vernacular Chinese. The resulting Union Version, published in 1919, became the standard translation for Protestants and was adapted and published in different forms, including Braille. A Chinese New Version was published in 1992 and a Revised Chinese Union Version in the early twenty-first century.\n\nThe Studium Biblicum Version, now the standard Chinese Bible for Catholics, was started in the 1930s and published in 1968. Starting in the 1850s, there have been three Russian Orthodox translations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCharacter Colloquial Versions\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\n\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nCharacter Colloquial Versions\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nCharacter Colloquial Versions\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n11 Samuel. (Tie-chiu dialect.)\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\n\nCharacter Colloquial Versions\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\n\n\n\n\nTranslations into Cantonese include:\n\nCharacter Colloquial Versions\nRomanized Vernacular Versions\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26063984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26063984", "title": "List of New Testament minuscules (2001–)", "text": "List of New Testament minuscules (2001–)\n\nA New Testament minuscule is a copy of a portion of the New Testament written in a small, cursive Greek script (developed from Uncial).\n\n<br>\n† Indicates the manuscript has damaged or missing pages.\n[ ] Brackets around Gregory-Aland number indicate the manuscript belongs to an already numbered manuscript, was found to not be a continuous text manuscript, was found to be written in modern Greek versus Koine Greek, was proved a forgery, or has been destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "79233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79233", "title": "List of biblical names starting with S", "text": "List of biblical names starting with S\n\n<br>\nA – B – C – D – E – F – G – H – I – J – K – L – M – N – O – P – Q – R – S – T – U – V – Y – Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56006691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56006691", "title": "M'Bona Cult", "text": "M'Bona Cult\n\nThe M'Bona Cult is a system of religious beliefs and rituals currently limited to the most southerly parts of Malawi, but more extensive formerly, and found among the local Mang'anja people. It aims to secure abundant rains at the appropriate season through the making of propitiatory gifts at cult shrines, and includes rainmaking rituals in the event of drought. It has been related to a number of other territorial cults among the Maravi cluster of related African peoples, which aim to secure the well-being of the people of a particular area secure from drought, floods or food shortages. The cult is believed to be a long established one, although estimates of how long it has existed are speculative, as the earliest definite record of its existence dates from 1862.\n\nThere are a number of debates about the sect. The first is whether the identity of M'Bona has changed over time, being a natural spirit, a deified human or combination of several people or a human intermediary with a god, and whether the name M'Bona was applied to what were originally different entities in different places. The second is whether the current stories about M'Bona are later myths, created to explain the cult, oral traditions with possibly a much distorted factual basis or a form of oral history from which past events can be recovered. The third is about the exact historical role of the M'Bona cult and whether its ritual practices as recorded in the 20th centuries are a continuation of those of earlier times.\nMuch of the study of M'Bona was undertaken by Father Matthew Schoffeleers (1928 – 2011), an anthropologist and researcher into African Religion, who was a Catholic missionary in the Lower Shire from 1955 to 1963 and then followed a largely academic career in Britain, Malawi and the Netherlands until his retirement in 1998. His extensive study of the cult began in the 1950s and he published eight books or papers on it between 1972 and 1992, besides two academic theses.\n\nAlthough there are a number of speculative reconstructions of the origin of the Maravi cluster of peoples and their movement into the Lower Zambezi and Lower Shire river valleys before the late 16th century, the earliest European account of those river valleys and its people relates to an expedition of 1569. This places the Macua people along the Lower Zambezi valley and the related Lolo people around Tete, with no indication of powerful Maravi states in the area. According to a further account of 1590, the Macua lost control of the south bank of the Zambezi and the Lolo were displaced eastward: these two groups then occupied roughly the same area of Zambezia province as today. Although these sources do not specifically name the invaders that displaced the Macua and Lolo, it seems that they came from the north and are plausibly interpreted as being Maravi and as forming the Lundu state, although the chiefly title of Lundu and the name Maravi are not recorded until 1616, and the title Kalonga only from 1660.\n\nRather than a Maravi empire being formed well to the north of the Zambezi and expanding southwards, as in several accounts, it is more probable that a number of related groups from north of the Zambezi entered Zambezia in the 16th century and coalesced into loosely connected Maravi chieftainships which were forced, when their further advance was prevented by the Portuguese, to recognise one or more paramount chiefs. In the early 17th century, according to Portuguese accounts recorded in 1648, an individual named Muzura, who had worked for the Portuguese, established himself as the overlord of the Maravi chieftainships on the north bank of the Zambezi with Portuguese support in 1608, and retained this position until around 1635, defeating an attempt of Lundu to revolt in 1622. One theory is that Muzura's successors adopted the title of Kalonga and ruled what came to be called the Maravi Empire, including three other substantial kingdoms or paramount chieftainships: Lundu along the Lower Shire, Kaphwiti in the Shire Highlands and Undi to the west, in the area of what is now the Mozambique-Zambia border. Another is that the Kalonga state, whose main seat is believed to have been south Lake Malawi, already existed but did not take part in the expansion into Zambezia so was unknown to the Portuguese in the early 17th Century. In this reconstruction, Muzura formed a state in the Mwanza area of the mid-Shire valley, between Lundu and Kalonga, which Kalonga took over by on his death, only then gaining paramountcy over the three chieftainships to the south\n\nThe people of the Maravi cluster diversified over time to become, from north to south the Tumbuka, Chewa, Nyanja and Mang'anja, although these successors retained certain common beliefs.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, the original Lundu kingdom among the Mang'anja people was based in the Lower Shire valley, but was vulnerable to aggression from Portuguese slave-traders. Over half a century from the early 19th century, an individual named Mankhokwe, who already controlled the Katchsi shrine in Thyolo district in the Shire Highlands, gained control of the Middle Shire and western Shire highlands, claimed the paramountcy and title of Lundu and attempted to gain control of the Khulubvi shrine. In the Lower Shire, another chief with the title Tengani built up a force able to resist the Portuguese threat, at least temporarily, and the original Lundu state descended into obscurity.\n\nThe situation of the Mang'anja in the 1860s, as described by members of David Livingstone's expedition or the Universities' Mission to Central Africa, was that there was a hierarchy of chiefs and headmen of varying power and influence. Theoretically, the paramount chief with the title Lundu was at the apex of this hierarchy, his prestige deriving from his control of one or more rain shrines, but his power over other major chiefs was limited. In practice, Mankhokwe had more power. Senior chiefs controlling significant areas were in theory appointed by the paramount but had followings in the areas they controlled and, in some cases, also controlled rain shrines: as the provision of rain was central to Mang'anja religion and daily life, being the patron of such a shrine was a source of power. The nature of one shrine was described in 1862, when it was claimed that the spirit of a former chief, M'Bona, communicated with a prophetess in dreams.\nAlthough an Afro-Portuguese slave-trader, Paul Mariano, managed to defeat Tengani, capture many slaves and destroy the Khulubvi shrine in 1862, Tengani survived with a reduced chiefdom and was later recognised by the colonial authorities as the senior Mang'anja chief. However some of the Kololo that Livingstone had brought from Botswana in as porters, and left at the end of his expedition, established chieftainships along the Lower Shire valley outside Tengani's influence. Mankhokwe had to face Kololo pressure on the Middle Shire and Yao attacks in the Shire Highlands and later migrated to the hills west of the Shire River, when the ancestral Mankhokwe rain shrine that was left behind fell into disuse.\n\nThe History of the M'Bona sect is closely bound up with that of the Mang'anja people, who currently live mainly in the north of Nsanje district and south of Chikwawa district in the Lower Shire valley of Malawi and adjacent areas of Mozambique. However, before the migrations of the Yao and Lomwe into the north-western part of their former territory and the Sena in the south, all of which began in the mid-19th century, they had ranged from the mid-Zambezi valley near Vila de Sena through the Lower and Middle Shire valley and into the western part of the Shire Highlands.\n\nA description of the M'Bona cult dating from 1953 recounted then-current traditions of M'Bona who, it was claimed, was a relative of a ruler with the hereditary title of Lundu and possessed rainmaking powers. M'Bona fled south because he had usurped the Lundu's power as a ruler to make rain during a drought, and was accused of witchcraft. During his flight, M'Bona was said to have rested in several places in southern Malawi, in areas inhabited by the Mang'anja, before he was killed by his pursuers and beheaded. The places where he rested and that where he was killed were said to have become rain-shines after his death. \nOne leading scholar claims the M'Bona rain shrine at Khulubvi in Nsanje District in the lower Shire Valley, where it is said M'Bona's head was placed after his killing, has been in existence since around 1500 and was at the heart of a cult whose influence stretched as far as the Indian Ocean in the east, Tete in the west, the Shire Highlands in the north and the Lower Zambezi valley in the south, and that it gave rise to other M'Bona shrines.\n\nAnother scholar considers M'Bona to have originated as a river god or spirit of a type known in other parts of Zambezia, the area of the Zambezi and its tributaries, as much as a protector against floods as a provider of rain. In at least one 19th century case, M'Bona was a female spirit, and it is unlikely that there was originally a single M'Bona cult with many shrines over a wide area, so much as a range of shrines devoted to different versions of a widespread myth. \nThere are three rain-shrine in central Malawi among the Chewa people, another offshoot of the Maravi. The first was at Msinja, where its female founder was also said to be of a ruling lineage, the first of a line of priestesses and prophetesses called Makewana. However, In contrast to M'Bona, there was no suggestion that the first Makewana was or became a deity: instead she was said to be possessed by god. The two other minor rain cults were not associated with a ruling family and little is known of them. \nThe reconstruction of Territorial Cults in Central Africa by Ranger described below suggests that most of these cults changed their nature over time, from shrines originally devoted to nature spirits with female priestesses or mediums to become ones controlled by locally-powerful families, which reclassified the spirit as that of a deceased ancestor, and its priestesses as wives of that spirit. This suggests that Wrigley may be correct on the ultimate origin of the cult, and that the priestesses and prophetesses at the Msinja may be relics of more widespread former practice. However, Schoffeleers entirely dismisses Wrigley claim that accounts of M'Bona are a myth, insisting on M'Bona having had some form of historical reality and dating his death to around 1600.\nInitially, when they met Livingstone's party and the UMCA missionaries, officials of the M'Bona cult were hostile to their exposition of Christian doctrines, regarding them as likely to undermine Mang'anja society. However, when many of the Mang'anja became Christians from the 1920s, particularly under the influence of Catholic missionaries, the M'Bona cult incorporated some Christian themes into its belief system, modifying the nature of the M'Bona myth by portraying M'Bona as a prophet and martyr, the black parallel of Jesus, and the saviour through his death of black people, as Jesus is for whites. \nAlthough most adherents to the M'Bona cult were Mang'anja, when Lomwe people with similar social structures moved into areas inhabited by Mang'anja people, they were also allowed to adopted it, although Sena people, like the Lomwe immigrants from Mozambique, were not. In the south of Nsanje district, Sena residents began to outnumber the existing Mang'anja population in the first quarter of the 20th century, although most village headmen were Mang'anja, whose use of M'Bona shrines distinguished them from Sena villagers with lower status.\n\nThe sacred sites currently associated with M'Bona and claimed to derive from Khulubvi are found at Nyandzikwi, Nkhadzi and Mwala in Nsanje District; Kaloga sacred cave in Mwabvi Wildlife Reserve, where sacrifices were offered in times of drought, disease or other calamities; Chifunda Lundu, the present day headquarters of Paramount Chief Lundu, Mtsakana and Konde Dzimbiri rain shrines, all three in Chikwawa district and a hut for the worship of M'Bona at Katchsi in Thyolo district. These are all, except for Katchsi, in the Shire valley to the west of the river, in a zone of around 120 km from north to south. Rangeley also mentions Dzambawe and Nyangazi, both in Mozambique as sites connected to M'Bona The principal Khulubvi rain shrine was destroyed in the early 1860s, but soon rebuilt.\n\nRangeley and Schoffeleers have both given accounts of the M'Bona rites as they existed in the 1950s and 1960s, or as they had existed and were recorded in popular memory. Schoffeleers' more detailed account relates specifically to the Khulubvi shrine. The Khulubvi shrine and others were built in thickets, so not easily visible, and contained three huts, each rebuilt when it fell into decay, one for M'Bona, another for his spirit wife and the third for her maidservant. \"Spirit wives\", were a common feature of all the shrines; permanently celibate women who traditionally served until death and received messages for their communities in the form of dreams. At Khulubvi and other shrines, a woman of marriageable age was traditionally selected as the spirit wife of M'Bona with the title Salima and supported by a handmaiden. After the 1880s, the position of Salima lost status and was filled by elderly widows, and the handmaiden was a young girl with the name Camanga who only served until puberty, although the post may earlier have been one for a woman of marriageable age . No spirit wives were recorded after the late 19th century.\nIn some cases, M'Bona's spirit was said to communicate with Salima in dreams, in others with a male officiant of the shrine. No women held the positions of Salima or Camanga in the 1950s, and the mediums at that time were male. Schoffeleers suggests that mediums associated with the cult at Khulubvi only began that association around 1900, after the line of spirit wives ended, when a female medium replaced Salima. Later mediums were usually male but included two females; some were descended from the first medium, others were relatives of a shrine guardian. Each shrine has one or more hereditary guardians or principals, of which Khulubvi had two competing ones from two chiefly lineages, and two officials responsible for its upkeep At Khulubvi the medium also has guardians and an interpreter of what the medium's utterances mean.\nThere were three main M'Bona rites at Khulubvi, annual communal rain prayers, rebuilding the shrine and, formerly, the induction of a new spirit wife. Rain prayers, accompanied by libations of millet beer, are said to be offered in October and November each year at the end of the dry season, and again if there is a drought. Huts within the shrine are built out of insubstantial materials and never repaired but rebuilt when the existing ones fall into decay, accompanied by an animal sacrifice. Rangeley says little about rites at the shrines, except that offerings of live animals, grain and beer were made to ensure plentiful rainfall.\n\nThe cult declined during the early 20th century, and several shrines fell into disuse, although following a widespread famine caused by a failure in the rains in 1949, it had a significant revival\n\nIn the 1950s and until Malawi's independence in 1964, the Khulubvi rain shrine was associated with a chief whose title was Tengani. However, the Chief Tengani before independence was a supporter of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland and also a committed Christian, who discouraged his people from using the shrine Since independence, holders of the Lundu title became the leading traditional authority in the Lower Shire. The Lundu chiefs, who were unimportant village headmen in the 1920s, and associated with the subsidiary shrine of Chifunda Lundu, claimed descent from the powerful Lundu chiefdom that was broken up in the early 19th century: the last chief of the original Lundu lineage was murdered in 1864 by some of the Kololo that David Livingstone brought from Botswana in 1862 as porters for his Zambezi expedition and left in the Lower Shire area at the end of the expedition in 1864. The current Lundu chiefs also claim that the Lundus before 1864 were patrons of the Khulubvi rain shrine, and although continuity between them and the 19th century Lundus is uncertain, the present title-holders are now recognised as patrons of that shrine>.\nThe Nyasaland famine of 1949, caused by a failure of the seasonal rains, was most severe in the south of the protectorate and led to a revival of the cult. In the aftermath of the famine, the colonial Agricultural Department introduced what it claimed were soil conservation techniques, more suited to sloping upland areas than the flat river valley. The M'Bona medium prophesied that use of these techniques would cause further drought. Although the administration imposed the regulations, this was the start of a period where the M'Bona medium opposed either the protectorate administration or the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, culminating in the arrest and imprisonment of the medium during the 1959 State of Emergency. \nThe Khulubvi shrine had a poor relationship with Molin Tengani, who retired in 1961 but hoped to improve this with his successor, Stonken Tengani, but he cut his links with the shrine in 1967.\n\nThere is no consensus among archaeologists and historians on the origin of the Maravi people, but many accept that there was a mingling of early settlers and a later ruling group. The former, sometimes known as the Chipeta, had moved into the area around the south of Lake Malawi early in the second millennium, perhaps from the 11th century and, although they did not form centralised states, their leaders had the clan name Banda. The later ruling group were migrants from the Katanga region who, sometime between the 14th and 16th centuries, brought ideas of chiefly power into what had been a stateless population. These newcomers belonged the Phiri clan, which formed a number of centralised states. However, as the account of Muzura shows, the claim to Phiri ancestry could be assumed by a successful parvenu, and Phiri titles such as Lundu (and also Kalonga, if it predated the mid-17th century) could be appropriated by previous subordinates.\n\nThe concept of a \"territorial cult\" is one where the spirit venerated relates to a particular area, not to a kinship group. The cult's main function is to secure the well-being of the local people through one or more of rain-making, the control of floods, fertility of the soil or success in fishing or hunting. These spirits may either be nature spirits or deified former human beings, some with one central shrine, others with several separate shrines and some, but not all, involve spirit possession or mediums. Within this diversity, Ranger believes there are common themes, and the people that later split into separate Chewa, Tumbuka and Mang'anja peoples initially shared a common belief in a High God, with spirits as intermediates between god and mankind, and that humans that were able to communicate with the spirits. He considers that these ideas were modified later.\nFirstly, these ideas became attached to specific local sites and, in the absence of central leadership, local territorial cults formed, usually with a prominent family controlling the shrine and priestesses \"married\" to a spirit intermediary as an oracle or medium. Secondly, before political organisation developed, there was some centralisation of local cults, with some accorded precedence over others. Thirdly, migrant members of the Phiri clan formed centralised states and took over control of many shrines, replacing the former guardian families with their officials and substituting deceased Phiri rulers or family members as the spirits of the shrine. The role of priestesses was often reduced, with their function as mediums either ceasing or being taken over by men. Finally, the status of various shrines rose of fell as the fortunes of the states controlling them changed, to create the variety observed in recent times\nBefore the Phiri rulers gained power, it is claimed, M'Bona was the title of the priestess, the wife of the spirit intermediary, at her main shrine in Thyolo district, with a minor shrine in Nsanje district. The latter became associated with a chief with real or assumed Phiri ancestry and the title Lundu, and the name M'Bona was transferred to a deceased member of the Lundu family. As the Lundu chiefs grew more powerful, the Khulubvi shrine gained prominence and the former priestess was demoted to the status of the newly named M'Bona's wife. However, some memory of her function as a medium may have remained, until this was taken over by a male medium. As the Lundu state expanded, it absorbed other cult sites, where the name M'Bona was applied to nature spirits of the river, who were protector against floods\n\nSchoffeleers accepts that a generalised Central African belief in a High God with spirit intermediaries existed, adding that, in one particular instance, it was transformed into the story of a human martyr which later absorbed other cults. He also accepts it is impossible to know if there was a single rain priest called M'Bona who persecuted and murdered or whether one or more members of an M'Bona priesthood were murdered and that name was attached to one or all of them. Nevertheless, he argues that, as the story of M'Bona's life and death is not part of any cult ceremony, it is not a myth in the normal sense but an orally-relayed biography\n\n"}
{"id": "9340159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9340159", "title": "Messapus", "text": "Messapus\n\nMessapus, a character in Virgil's \"Aeneid\", appears in Books VII and IX of the Latin epic poem. He was a famous tamer of horses and king of Etruria, known for being one \"whom no one can fell by fire or steel\" (Mandelbaum, VII.911-912); perhaps because he is a son of Neptune. Although accustomed to peace, in Book VII Messapus joins forces with Turnus in his battle against Aeneas and the Trojans. In Book IX, which recounts the nighttime raid by Nisus and Euryalus on the Rutulian camp, the battle helmet of Messapus is taken by Euryalus. Light reflected off the stolen helmet, betraying Euryalus to his enemies and leading not only to his own death, but also that of Nisus.\n\n"}
{"id": "3242004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242004", "title": "Ministers and elders of the Church of Scotland", "text": "Ministers and elders of the Church of Scotland\n\nA Church of Scotland congregation is led by its minister and elders. Both of these terms are also used in other Christian denominations: see Minister (Christianity) and Elder (Christianity). This article discusses the specific understanding of their roles and functions in the Scottish Church.\n\nThe Greek term \n, used in the New Testament as a designation for the leaders of the Early Church (e.g. Acts 11.30), has three different equivalents in English: \"elder\", \"presbyter\" and \"priest\". \"Priest\" is the oldest, a borrowing into Old English via Latin, \"elder\" (first attested 1526) is a translation of the underlying meaning of the Greek word, and \"presbyter\" (1597) is learned correction of the loan-word. However, the semantics of \"priest\" are complicated by the fact that it is traditionally used also as the translation of a different New Testament Greek word, \n\n\"Minister\" comes from a Latin word meaning servant, and is also used in the Church as a verb: to minister to the needs of God's people.\n\nIn calling itself a Presbyterian Church, the Church of Scotland declares itself to be a Church governed by elders. Although colloquial usage in the Church distinguishes between ministers and elders, the minister is understood theologically to be an elder with a special task. The minister is styled as a \"teaching elder\", the other members of Kirk Session are known as \"ruling elders\". All elders are ordained, and the ordination of ministers is understood to be an ordinance of a similar nature to that of elders, but with a different charge.\n\nA minister is ordained by the Presbytery to the \"ministry of word and sacrament\", and is regarded as being the \"teaching elder\".\n\nA minister has the pastoral responsibility for a congregation, which he or she exercises under the supervision of the Presbytery. The minister is responsible for the conduct of public worship, and is alone authorised to administer the sacraments of Baptism and Communion.\n\nThe minister is moderator of the Kirk Session, is a member of Presbytery, and on average is a member of the General Assembly once every four years.\n\nThe longstanding system of ministry training has recently changed.\n\nPeople who express interest in entering the ministry must first attend a one-day conference, at which various options (including the ministry of Word and Sacrament, the auxiliary ministry, the diaconate and other forms of church work) are outlined. Thereafter, applicants for the full-time ministry must undertake a variety of assessments, leading up to a residential three-day procedure known as an \"Assessment Conference\" (previously \"Selection School\") held at various locations around Scotland. Those who are accepted at the end of this selection procedure are recognised as candidates for the ministry. From this point on, they are under the supervision of their home presbytery, but also of the Ministries Council in the Church's offices in Edinburgh.\n\nAll ministers of the Church of Scotland must have a university qualification in theology or divinity. While foreign qualifications are accepted, most candidates study for a Bachelor of Divinity (B.D.) degree at the theological colleges of the ancient universities of Scotland (St Mary's College, St Andrews, Trinity College, Glasgow, Christ's College, Aberdeen and New College, Edinburgh). In 2006 the Highland Theological College, Dingwall, was also approved as a centre for training.\n\nAn increasing number of ministers are opting to take a further qualification, such as the Diploma in Pastoral Theology (Dip.P.Th.), Master of Theology (M.Th.) or Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) degree courses.\n\nThe B.D. course was traditionally a three-year post-graduate degree, though mature students may be permitted to take a shorter course of studies. Since the 1980s it has also been permissible for school-leavers to go straight to theological college to do a B.D. as a first degree; in this case the course of study is longer, at least five years. The recently revised system has introduced a course with a system of four placements in congregations, replacing the former student attachments, 12 or 18 month probationary period and \"trials for licence\".\n\nIn addition to their academic studies, they are also trained through a conference programme and through the \"Ministries Trainling Network\" in church law exams, public speaking, Safeguarding and pastoral care.\n\nOn completing their studies, candidates were formerly \"licensed to preach\" by their home presbytery and became a probationer, serving a 12 or 18 month full-time probationary period in a parish. This probationary year has now been replaced by a final 15 month placement, although the objective remains very similar (albeit with more short residential training courses.)\n\nWhen the training has been sustained, the candidate is free to seek a charge. The Church of Scotland does not ordain ministers without simultaneously inducting them into their first charge. This is because, theologically, ministers are ordained \"to do\" a task rather than \"to be\" a minister. This stands in contrast to some other denominations which ordain their clergy on completion of training.\n\nPrior to Church union in 1929, the United Free Church of Scotland maintained its own colleges in Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Glasgow, whilst candidates for the ministry in the Church of Scotland studied in the University Faculties of Divinity. The union of 1929 necessitated the integration of the two systems. The theological colleges now form integral academic schools at the universities of St Andrews, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Edinburgh. The Church used to appoint the Professors of Divinity along with certain other chairs but the cost of maintaining these chairs necessitated transferring patronage to the Academic Senate or University Court of each university.\n\nThough technically still Church colleges, these are almost indistinguishable from the university schools. The Church still advises on the appointment of Professors and advises on the appointment of the Principal of the College. The Head of the School of Divinity at St Andrews is currently (2015) Professor Mark Elliot. The Principal of St Mary's College is Dr Ian Bradley and as he is an ordained Church of Scotland minister, he is entitled to use the prenominal Very Reverend whilst in office.\n\nA ruling elder is ordained by the minister and Kirk Session of the parish, and is answerable to the Kirk Session. Like a minister, an elder is ordained for life.\n\nUnlike members of parish councils in other denominations, elders are understood to have pastoral responsibilities, which they carry out under the guidance of the minister. Usually a parish will be divided into elders' districts, and the elders are expected to visit the church members resident in their district on a regular basis. Elders also often assist the minister in the distribution of the elements at a formal Communion Service.\n\nAll elders are members of the Kirk Session. They may also be members of the higher courts of the church. Each Kirk Session appoints one of its members to attend Presbytery, and on average once every four years, one of its members might be commissioned by Presbytery to the General Assembly. Since retired ministers, theology professors and others ministers with non-parochial charges are members of Presbytery and sometimes of the Assembly, \"equalising elders\" are required in the higher courts of the Church to maintain the principle that ministers and elders are represented in equal numbers. Elders are eligible for appointment to any function in the higher courts, including Moderator of the Assembly.\n\nWhen a congregation is unable to form a Kirk Session, for example when a new congregation is first founded, so-called \"assessor elders\", from neighbouring Kirk Sessions, may be appointed by the Presbytery.\n\n"}
{"id": "357089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357089", "title": "Mortal sin", "text": "Mortal sin\n\nA mortal sin (), in Catholic theology, is a gravely sinful act, which can lead to damnation if a person does not repent of the sin before death. A sin is considered to be \"mortal\" when its quality is such that it leads to a separation of that person from God's saving grace. This type of sin should be distinguished from a venial sin that simply leads to a weakening of a person's relationship with God. Despite its gravity, a person can repent of having committed a mortal sin. Such repentance is the primary requisite for forgiveness and absolution. Teaching on absolution from serious sins has varied somewhat throughout history. The current Catholic teaching was formalized at the 16th century Council of Trent.\n\nAccording to Catholic teaching, perfect contrition, coupled with a firm resolution to sin no more, can restore a person's relationship with God, as well as God's saving grace. Under ordinary circumstances this takes place through absolution, which is received during the Sacrament of Penance. However, as God's mercy and forgiveness is not bound by the Sacrament of Penance, under extraordinary circumstances a mortal sin can be remitted through perfect contrition, which is a human act that arises from a person's love of God. When perfect contrition is the means by which one seeks to restore ones relationship with God, there must also be a resolution to confess all mortal sins (that have not been confessed and absolved previously) in the Sacrament of Penance. A resolution to confess these sins should be made with an act of perfect contrition, regardless of whether or not a person believes that they will have access to the Sacrament of Penance.\n\nThe term \"mortal sin\" is thought to be derived from the New Testament of the Bible. Specifically, it has been suggested that the term comes from the 1 John 5:16–17. In this particular verse, the author of the Epistle writes \"There is a sin that leads to death.\"\n\nIn Roman Catholic moral theology, a mortal sin requires that all of the following conditions are met:\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" defines \"grave matter\":\n1858. Grave matter is specified by the Ten Commandments, corresponding to the answer of Jesus to the rich young man: \"Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and your mother.\" The gravity of sins is more or less great: murder is graver than theft. One must also take into account who is wronged: violence against parents is in itself graver than violence against a stranger.\n\nThis would include worshiping other gods and blasphemy. Although the Church itself does not provide a precise list of mortal sins or divide actions into mortal and venial categories, Church documents do name certain \"grave sins\" as well as \"offenses\" and \"actions\" whose subject-matter is considered to be grave. For example, in the area of human sexuality, the Catechism of the Catholic Church notes that the following actions can involve increased gravity: extramarital sex, divorce (but not legitimate separation), and masturbation.\n\nWith respect to a person's full knowledge of a certain act being a mortal sin, the Catholic Church teaches that \"unintentional ignorance can diminish or even remove the imputability of a grave offense. But no one is deemed to be ignorant of the principles of the moral law, which are written in the conscience of every man. The promptings of feelings and passions can also diminish the voluntary and free character of the offense, as can external pressures or pathological disorders <nowiki>[</nowiki>[mental illness]<nowiki>]</nowiki>. Sin committed through malice, by deliberate choice of evil, is the gravest.\" Furthermore, Catholic teaching also holds that \"imputability and responsibility for an action can be diminished or even nullified by ignorance, inadvertence, duress, fear, habit, inordinate attachments, and other psychological or social factors.\" In this regard, a sin committed while one is inebriated may lack the awareness and consent necessary for the sin to be mortal. But when one becomes aware of the danger of excessive drink, such drinking itself becomes a serious matter.\n\nMortal sins should not to be confused with the seven deadly sins. The latter are not necessarily mortal sins; they are sins that lead to other sins.\n\nMortal sins are sometimes called \"grave\", \"grievous\", or \"serious\" sins, but this term seems to deny the other two conditions necessary for mortal sin. Theological debate also exists as to whether the term introduces a third category of sins.\n\nMortal sins must be confessed by naming the specific offence along with how many times it was committed. It is not necessary to confess venial sins although they may be confessed, a practice that began with the Irish monks around the 12th century. Venial sins are all sins that are not mortal. The Church encourages frequent, intelligent use of the sacrament of confession even if a person has only venial sins, in view of the benefits that might be derived.\n\nSome acts cause automatic excommunication by the very deed itself, for example renunciation of faith and religion, known as apostasy, desecration of the Eucharistic species, and \"a completed abortion\". Those mortal sins are so serious that the Church through law has made them crimes. The Church forbids the excommunicated from receiving any sacrament (not just the Eucharist) and also severely restricts the person's participation in other Church liturgical acts and offices. A repentant excommunicated person may talk to a priest, usually in a confessional, about their excommunication to arrange for the remission. Remission cannot be denied to someone who has truly repented their actions and has also made suitable reparation for damages and scandal or at least has seriously promised according to church law. However, even if excommunicated, a Catholic who has not been juridically absolved is still, due to the irrevocable nature of baptism, a member of the Catholic Church, albeit their communion with the Christ and the Church is gravely impaired. \"Perpetual penalties cannot be imposed or declared by decree.\" However, \"the following are expiatory penalties which can affect an offender either perpetually...\"\n\nSince the mid-twentieth century, some theologians have taught that a person who lives by a constant attitude of charity is unlikely to fall in and out of God's graces without being profoundly aware of the change. The term \"fundamental option\" arose and is used in a variety of senses. Pope John Paul II reaffirmed traditional teaching going back to the Council of Trent in his encyclical \"Veritatis Splendor,\" as does the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", which states: \"The teaching of the Church affirms the existence of hell and its eternity. Immediately after death the souls of those who die in a state of mortal sin descend into hell, where they suffer the punishments of hell, 'eternal fire'.\" The Catechism then adds: \"The chief punishment of hell is eternal separation from God, in whom alone man can possess the life and happiness for which he was created and for which he longs.\" However, the Catechism does not by name say a specific person is in Hell, but it does say that \"...our freedom has the power to make choices for ever, with no turning back.\" Most significantly, the Catechism also proclaims that \"There are no limits to the mercy of God...\" and that \"although we can judge that an act is in itself a grave offence, we must entrust judgment of persons to the justice and mercy of God.\" We cannot see into their mind to know if it was deliberate or committed in full knowledge. Also, like the father in the Parable of the Prodigal Son, God forgives those who repent sincerely. Vatican II, in its Dogmatic Constitution \"Lumen Gentium\", reflects the traditional teaching of the Church.\n\nEastern Catholic churches (autonomous, self-governing [in Latin, \"sui iuris\"] particular churches in full communion with the Bishop of Rome, the Pope), which derive their theology and spirituality from some of the same sources as the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox, use the Latin Catholic distinction between \"mortal\" and \"venial\" sin, though they are not named \"mortal\" and \"venial\".\n\nThe following is a partial list of actions that are defined as constituting a grave matter by the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" or like sources (such as declarations by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Apostolic Letters, or other sources printed by Church authorities).\n\nAccording to Fr. Allyne Smith, \"While the Roman Catholic tradition has identified particular acts as 'mortal' sins, in the Orthodox tradition we see that only a sin for which we don't repent is 'mortal.'\"\n\nIn the Orthodox Church there are no \"categories\" of sin as found in the Christian West. In the pre-Vatican II Catholic catechism, sins were categorized as \"mortal\" and \"venial.\" In this definition, a \"mortal\" sin was one which would prevent someone from entering heaven unless one confessed it before death... These categories do not exist in the Orthodox Church. Sin is sin. Concerning Confession, having a list of deadly sins could, in fact, become an obstacle to genuine repentance. For example, imagine that you commit a sin. You look on the list and do not find it listed. It would be very easy to take the attitude that, since it is not on a list of deadly sins, it is not too serious. Hence, you do not feel the need to seek God's forgiveness right away. A week passes and you have completely forgotten about what you had done. You never sought God's forgiveness; as a result, you did not receive it, either. We should go to Confession when we sin—at the very least, we should ask God to forgive us daily in our personal prayers. We should not see Confession as a time to confess only those sins which may be found on a list.\n\nThough not part of the dogma of the Orthodox Church the mortal/venial distinction is assumed by some Orthodox authors and saints as a theologoumenon. For example, Saint Ignatius Brianchaninov (1807–1867), in his book \"A Word on Death\", in a chapter entitled \"Mortal sin\", says:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Under \"unnatural carnal sins\" the following are implied: sodomy, bestiality, masturbation, and any unnatural intercourse between married people (such as using contraceptives, consummated oral or consummated anal intercourse, etc.) as is explained in the book \"Ascetical Trials\", also written by Saint Ignatius Brianchaninov (1807–1867).\n\nSimilarly, the \"Exomologetarion\" of Nicodemus the Hagiorite (1749–1809) distinguishes seven classes of sin:\n\n\nNicodemus gives the following example for the seven classes of sin. \"The initial movement of anger is pardonable; near to the pardonable is for someone to say harsh words and get hot-tempered. A non-mortal sin is to swear; near the non-mortal is for someone to strike with the hand. Between the non-mortal and the mortal is to strike with a small stick; near the mortal is to strike with a large stick, or with a knife, but not in the area of the head. A mortal sin is to murder. A similar pattern applies to the other sins. Wherefore, those sins nearer to the pardonable end are penanced lighter, while those nearer to the mortal end are more severely penanced.\"\n\nHe also stipulates seven conditions of sin:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55030601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55030601", "title": "Murder of Ram Chander Chhatrapati", "text": "Murder of Ram Chander Chhatrapati\n\nRam Chander Chhatrapati (, died 21 November 2002) was an Indian journalist who was murdered in 2002. Chhatrapati ran a local Hindi-language evening daily \"Poora Sach\" ( \"whole truth\") in Sirsa, Haryana. Chhatrapati was the journalist who published the anonymous letter accusing Dera Sacha Sauda leader Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh of a rape, of which he would later be found guilty. On the night of 24 October two men riding a motorcycle shot Chhatrapati at point-blank range outside his residence. The journalist succumbed to his injuries four weeks later.\n\nTwo local carpenters Nirmal Singh and Kuldeep Singh were arrested for the shooting and cited on the First Information Report (FIR) by the local police. The men reportedly worked at the dera. Three months after the killing of Ram Chander Chhatrapati, in January 2003, his son, and successor as proprietor of the local newspaper Anshul Chhatrapati petitioned the High Court for a CBI investigation into Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, which nine months later was accepted by the High Court in November.\n\nIn July 2007 the CBI filed a charge sheet against the Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. The conclusion of evidence presentation was made in November 2014, along with a related case related to the murder of Ranjit Singh, a former manager at the dera. The primary accused Nirmal Singh was granted bail January 2017, 14 years after he was arrested. The other man on the motorbike, Kuldeep Singh. had already been bailed shortly after initial arrest. The review of the murder case reached final arguments in the same CBI special court at Panchkula that found the dera chief guilty of rape on 25 August 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "26092095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26092095", "title": "Neo-Luciferian Church", "text": "Neo-Luciferian Church\n\nThe Neo-Luciferian Church (NLC) is a Gnostic and Luciferian organisation with roots in western esotericism, Voodoo, Luciferianism, Thelema, and magic.\n\nThe Neo-Luciferian Church was started in 2005 as a cooperation between Danish occultist Bjarne Salling Pedersen and the American artist, author and philosopher Michael Bertiaux, as a reawakening and modern interpretation of the Luciferian Gnosticism advocated by Danish occultist and member of the Ordo Templi Orientis Carl William Hansen, called Ben Kadosh in the early 1900s.\n\nToday the organisation is primarily active in Denmark and Sweden and has a very strong internet presence.The OTO now has many temples around the USA also in various states, From California to Texas and Eastward .\n\nThe Neo-Luciferian Church operates with a creed and a manifesto, and has a teaching that incorporates elements from Thelema, Gnosticism, Voodoo, traditional occultism, and witchcraft. There is an emphasis on art, psychology, and critical thinking.\n\nThe mythology draws heavily on Roman and Greek sources, and more dubious modern writings such as Charles Leland's \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\", the works of Dion Fortune, Michael Bertiaux, and Aleister Crowley.\n\nThe Neo-Luciferian Church operates within a grade system of seven degrees and belongs in the succession from a number of churches, some Gnostic and magical in origin, others belonging to the succession described in the Ecclesia Gnostica Spiritualis.\n\n"}
{"id": "217358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217358", "title": "Pedro Calderón de la Barca", "text": "Pedro Calderón de la Barca\n\nPedro Calderón de la Barca y Barreda González de Henao Ruiz de Blasco y Riaño, usually referred as Pedro Calderón de la Barca (; 17 January 160025 May 1681), was a dramatist, poet and writer of the Spanish Golden Age. During certain periods of his life he was also a soldier and a Roman Catholic priest. Born when the Spanish Golden Age theatre was being defined by Lope de Vega, he developed it further, his work being regarded as the culmination of the Spanish Baroque theatre. As such, he is regarded as one of Spain's foremost dramatists and one of the finest playwrights of world literature.\n\nCalderón was born in Madrid. His mother, who was of Flemish descent, died in 1610; his father, an hidalgo of Cantabrian origins who was secretary to the treasury, died in 1615. Calderón was educated at the Jesuit College in Madrid, the Colegio Imperial, with a view to taking orders; but instead, he studied law at Salamanca.\n\nBetween 1620 and 1622 Calderón won several poetry contests in honor of St Isidore at Madrid. Calderón's debut as a playwright was \"Amor, honor y poder\", performed at the Royal Palace on 29 June 1623. This was followed by two other plays that same year: \"La selva confusa\" and \"Los Macabeos\". Over the next two decades, Calderón wrote more than 70 plays, the majority of which were secular dramas written for the commercial theatres.\n\nCalderón served with the Spanish army in Italy and Flanders between 1625 and 1635. By the time Lope de Vega died in 1635, Calderón was recognized as the foremost Spanish dramatist of the age. Calderón had also gained considerable favour in the court, and in 1636–1637 he was made a knight of the Order of Santiago by Philip IV, who had already commissioned from him a series of spectacular plays for the royal theatre in the newly built Buen Retiro palace. On 28 May 1640 he joined a company of mounted cuirassiers recently raised by Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares, took part in the Catalan campaign, and distinguished himself by his gallantry at Tarragona. His health failing, Calderón retired from the army in November 1642, and three years later was awarded a special military pension in recognition of his services in the field.\n\nCalderón's biography during the next few years is obscure. His brother, Diego Calderón, died in 1647. A son, Pedro José, was born to Calderón and an unknown woman between 1647 and 1649; the mother died soon after. Calderón committed his son to the care of his nephew, José, son of Diego. Perhaps for reasons relating to these personal trials, Calderón became a tertiary of the order of St Francis in 1650, and then finally joined the priesthood. He was ordained in 1651, and became a priest at San Salvador church, in Madrid. According to a statement he made a year or two later, he decided to give up writing secular dramas for the commercial theatres.\n\nThough he did not adhere strictly to this resolution, he now wrote mostly mythological plays for the palace theatres, and \"autos sacramentales\"—one-act allegories illustrating the mystery of the Eucharist—for performance during the feast of Corpus Christi. In 1662, two of Calderón's \"autos\", \"Las órdenes militares\" and \"Mística y real Babilonia\", were the subjects of an inquiry by the Inquisition; the former was censured, its manuscript copies confiscated, and remained condemned until 1671.\n\nCalderón was appointed honorary chaplain to Philip IV in 1663, and continued as chaplain to his successor. In his eighty-first year he wrote his last secular play, \"Hado y Divisa de Leonido y Marfisa\", in honor of Charles II's marriage to Maria Luisa of Orléans.\n\nNotwithstanding his position at court and his popularity throughout Spain, near the end of his life Calderón struggled with financial difficulties, but with the motivation of the Carnival of 1680 he wrote his last work of comedy, \"Hado y divisa de Leonido y de Marfisa\". He died May 25, 1681, leaving only partially complete the \"autos sacramentales\" that he had been working on for that year. His burial was austere and unembellished, as he desired in his will: \"Uncovered, as if I deserved to satisfy in part the public vanities of my poorly spent life\". In this manner he left the theatres orphaned in which he was considered one of the best dramatic writers of his time.\n\nCalderón initiated what has been called the second cycle of Spanish Golden Age theatre. Whereas his predecessor, Lope de Vega, pioneered the dramatic forms and genres of Spanish Golden Age theatre, Calderón polished and perfected them. Whereas Lope's strength lay in the sponteneity and naturalness of his work, Calderón's strength lay in his capacity for poetic beauty, dramatic structure and philosophical depth. Calderón was a perfectionist who often revisited and reworked his plays, even long after they were first performed. This perfectionism was not just limited to his own work: several of his plays rework existing plays or scenes by other dramatists, improving their depth, complexity, and unity. Calderón excelled above all others in the genre of the \"auto sacramental\", in which he showed a seemingly inexhaustible capacity to giving new dramatic forms to a given set of theological and philosophical constructs. Calderón wrote 120 \"comedias\", 80 \"autos sacramentales\" and 20 short comedic works called \"entremeses\".\n\nAs Goethe notes, Calderón tended to write his plays taking special care of their dramatic structure. He therefore usually reduced the number of scenes in his plays as compared to those of Lope de Vega, so as to avoid any superfluity and present only those scenes essential to the play, also reducing the number of different metres in his plays for the sake of gaining a greater stylistic uniformity. Although his poetry and plays leaned towards culteranismo, he usually reduced the level and obscurity of that style by avoiding metaphors and references away from those that uneducated viewers could understand. However, he had a liking for symbolism, for example making a fall from a horse a metaphor of a fall into disgrace, the fall representing dishonour; the use of horoscopes or prophecies at the start of the play as a way of making false predictions about the following to occur, symbolizing the utter uncertainty of future. In addition, probably influenced by Cervantes, Calderón realized that any play was but fiction, and that the structure of the baroque play was entirely artificial. He therefore sometimes makes use of meta-theatrical techniques such as making his characters read in a jocose manner the clichés the author is using, and they are thus forced to follow. Some of the most common themes of his plays were heavily influenced by his Jesuit education. For example, as a reader of Saint Thomas Aquinas and Francisco Suárez, he liked to confront reason against the passions, intellect against instinct, or understanding against will. In common with many writers from the Spanish Golden Age, his plays usually show his vital pessimism, that is only softened by his rationalism and his faith in God; the anguish and distress usually found his \"œuvre\" is better exemplified in one of his most famous plays, \"La Vida es sueño\" (\"Life Is a Dream\"), in which Segismundo claims:\nIndeed, his themes tended to be complex and philosophical, and express complicated states of mind in a manner that few playwrights have been able to manage. Like Baltasar Gracián, Calderón favoured only the deepest human feelings and dilemmas.\n\nSince Calderón's plays were usually represented at the court of the King of Spain, he had access to the most modern techniques regarding scenography. He collaborated with in developing complex scenographies that were integrated in some of his plays, specially his most religious-themed ones such as the \"Autos Sacramentales\", becoming extremely complex allegories of moral, philosophical and religious concepts.\n\nAlthough his fame dwindled during the 18th century, he was rediscovered in the early 19th century by the German Romantics. Translations of August Wilhelm Schlegel reinvigorated interest in the playwright, who, alongside Shakespeare, subsequently became a banner figure for the German Romantic movement. E. T. A. Hoffmann based his 1807 singspiel \"Liebe und Eifersucht\" on a play by Calderón, \"La banda y la flor\" (\"The Scarf and the Flower\"), translated by Schlegel. In subsequent decades, Calderón's work was translated into German numerous times, most notably by Johann Diederich Gries and Joseph von Eichendorff, and found significant reception on the German and Austrian stages under the direction of Goethe, and Joseph Schreyvogel. Later significant German adaptations include Hugo von Hofmannsthal's versions of \"La vida es sueño\" and \"\".\n\nAlthough best known abroad as the author of \"Doctor Zhivago\", Boris Pasternak produced acclaimed Russian translations of Calderón's plays during the late 1950s. According to his mistress, Olga Ivinskaya, In working on Calderón he received help from Nikolai Mikhailovich Liubumov, a shrewd and enlightened person who understood very well that all the mudslinging and commotion over the novel would be forgotten, but that there would always be a Pasternak. I took finished bits of the translation with me to Moscow, read them to Liubimov at Potapov Street, and then went back to Peredelkino, where I would tactfully ask [Boris Leonidovich] to change passages which, in Liubimov's view departed too far from the original. Very soon after the \"scandal\" was over, [Boris Leonidovich] received a first payment for the work on Calderón.\n\nTwentieth-century Calderón reception suffered significantly under the influence of Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo, but a revival of interest in Calderón scholarship can be largely attributed to British reception, namely through the works of A. A. Parker (who considered \"La hija del aire\" to be his finest work\n), A. E. Sloman and more recently Bruce Wardropper.\n\nAlthough not well known to the current English-speaking world, Calderón's plays were first adapted into English during the 17th century. For instance, Samuel Pepys recorded attending to some plays during 1667 which were free translations of some of Calderón's. Percy Bysshe Shelley translated a substantial portion of \"El Mágico prodigioso\". Some of Calderón's works have been translated into English, notably by Denis Florence MacCarthy, Edward FitzGerald, Roy Campbell, Edwin Honig, Kenneth Muir & Ann L. Mackenzie, Adrian Mitchell, and Gwynne Edwards.\n\n\n\n\n\nFor a time the comedic works of Calderón were underestimated, but have since been reevaluated and have been considered as masterfully composed works as being classified in the genre of \"\", such as his works \"La dama duende (The Phantom Lady), (A house with two doors is difficult to guard), or (The Heroic Phantom).\"\n\nCalderón de la Barca appears in the 1998 novel \"The Sun over Breda\", by Arturo Pérez-Reverte, which takes up the assumption that he served in the Spanish Army at Flanders and depicts him during the sack of Oudkerk by Spanish troops, helping the local librarian save books from the library in the burning town hall. Latin American author Giannina Braschi based her dramatic novel \"United States of Banana\" (2011) on Calderón de la Barca's \"La vida es sueño\" (\"Life Is a Dream\"), recasting the tragic hero Segismundo in 21st-century New York City, where his father, the King of the United States of Banana, locks him in the dungeon of the Statue of Liberty for the crime of having been born.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38595861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38595861", "title": "Philotis (mythology)", "text": "Philotis (mythology)\n\nIn Roman legend, Philotis, also known as Tutula, was a slave \"(ancilla)\" whose plan resulted in an important victory of the Romans over the Latins in the late 4th century BC. \n\nWeakened by the Gallic sack of Rome in 390 BC, the Romans had suffered a stinging defeat by the Fidenates, who demanded that they hand over their wives and virgin daughters as hostages to secure a peace. Recounted in Plutarch's \"Life of Romulus\" (ca. AD 75), Philotis proposed that she and other slave girls pretend to be the wives and daughters of the Roman families and present themselves to the hostile Latins. \n\nAfter the Roman senate agreed to the plan, the women dressed up elegantly, wearing golden jewelry, and visited the enemy camp. There they seduced the Latins into revelry and drinking. After they had fallen asleep, Philotis and the other slaves stole the enemy's swords. Philotis climbed a wild fig tree \"(caprificus)\", hiding a torch within her mantle, then brandished it to signal the Romans. The Romans then invaded the Latin camp and killed them in their sleep. The women were rewarded with freedom and a dowry at public expenses.\n\nFor the festival known as the Nonae Caprotinae, both free and slave Roman women picnicked and celebrated together near the site of the wild fig \"(caprificus)\" to commemorate the victory.\n\n"}
{"id": "14582036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14582036", "title": "Putucusi", "text": "Putucusi\n\nPutucusi (possibly from Quechua \"phutu\" bud, \"-q\" a suffix, \"k'usi\" a cucurbit species, a small zucchini or \"Cucurbita pepo\", \"budding zucchini (or \"Cucurbita pepo\")\") is a round-shaped mountain located on the opposite side (northeast) of the Urubamba River to Machu Picchu in the Cusco Region of Peru. Reaching approximately above sea level at its peak, the mountain offers epic views of Machu Picchu and the surrounding Urubamba River valley.\n\nPutucusi, Machu Picchu (\"old peak\" in Quechua) and Huayna Picchu (\"young peak\") are considered apus or holy mountains by the local Quechua people.\n\nThe view of Machu Picchu from the summit requires a 1.5-hour trek up the mountain, with approximately 1,700 wood and rock steps. A recently discovered Inca Trail, the path lies just 10 minutes west of Aguas Calientes following the train tracks along the Urubamba River. The entrance is free.\n\nThe first half of the journey is jungle trail, and involves several vertical wooden ladders, the largest of which scales over . The second half presents views of Aguas Calientes and the Urubamba River valley, as the trail ascends the eastern face of Putucusi in switchback fashion. The trail passes through native flora including pisonayes, q'eofias, alisos, puya palm trees, ferns and more than 90 species of orchids.\n\nIn spring 2011, floods wiped out the vertical ladder section of the climb, making an ascent impossible without professional climbing gear, but by August 2012, all the ladders had been replaced.\n\nUpdated to June 2016, the access to the trail has been restricted and forbidden, due to the lack of maintenance of the path. All the ladders are indeed destroyed and it's impossible and extremely dangerous to climb up without professional climbing equipment. \nLocal rangers are monitoring the area and the entrance to avoid unauthorized accesses and prevent accidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "8432574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8432574", "title": "Romani mythology", "text": "Romani mythology\n\nRomani mythology is the myth, folklore, religion, traditions, and legends of the Romani people. (The Romani are sometimes referred to as Gypsies, though many consider this a slur.) The Romani are a nomadic culture which is thought to have originated in India during the Middle Ages. They migrated widely, particularly to Europe. Some legends (particularly from non-Romani peoples) say that certain Romani have passive psychic powers such as empathy, precognition, retrocognition, or psychometry. Other legends include the ability to levitate, travel through astral projection by way of meditation, invoke curses or blessings, conjure or channel spirits, and skill with illusion-casting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24040957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24040957", "title": "Sadh", "text": "Sadh\n\nThe Sadh is a monotheistic religion. They call their God \"Satnam\" which means \"the true name. They are the keepers of true name.\n\nThe sect was formed by \"Birbhan sadhji\" in Bijesar, a village near Narnaul, Haryana in the year 1543 CE. They use the name \"Satnami\" to call upon the God. Hence, they call themselves as \"Satnamis\".\n\nSatnami revolt was a major rebellion against Aurangzeb, the Mughal Emperor, occurred in Narnaul and surrounding localities in the year 1672, which was led by \"Sadh\" people. The revolt was caused by the oppression led by the revenue officials of the Mughal Emperor. The absence from North India of the major proportion of royal troops helped the revolting people to establish a temporary gain and the movement of rebels towards Delhi became a matter of serious concern for the emperor himself. A large reinforcement was sent to contain the revolt and in the following battle thousands of rebels were killed.\n\nThe adults of the sect are required to wear white garments only, and abstain from intoxicants and animal foods. These tenets are still practiced by many today.\n\n"}
{"id": "11888028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11888028", "title": "Shri Vidya", "text": "Shri Vidya\n\nIn the principally Shakta theology of the goddess is supreme, transcending the cosmos that is her manifestation. She is worshiped in the form of a mystical diagram (Sanskrit: '), a central focus and ritual object composed of nine intersecting triangles, called the \"Sri Yantra\" or ' The \"Meru Chakra\" is a three-dimensional form of this, made of rock crystal or metal, often a traditional alloy of silver, antimony, copper, zinc and pewter that is held to enhance the flow and generation of its beneficial energies, covered in gold. Subhash Kak argues that this is the yantra described in the Śvetāśvatara Upanisad.\n\n\"Mantra\"s are believed to reveal the unity of the deity, the guru and initiate and the mantra or sound syllable Itself. The first mantra given to initiates is the \"Bala Tripurasundari Mantra\". Here the Goddess is visualized as a small child. The next level mantra is the fifteen-lettered \"Panchadasi\" or \"Panchadasakshari Mantra\". A higher mantra is the sixteen-lettered \"Shodasi\" or \"Shodashakshari Mantra\".\n\nPractical benefits of this spiritual practice results in good physical, mental and emotional health leading to a harmonious and effective relationship at home and the external world. This leads to success in all aspects of life\n\n\nThis describes the various deities in the Sri Yantra.Sri Devi refers to Shakti, the Divine Mother,Khadga means Sword, Mala means Garland, Stotram means a hymn or song of praise. So the Khadgamala Stotram is a hymn to the Divine Mother, which is said to bestow a garland of swords upon those who recite it.'\n\n"}
{"id": "2514235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514235", "title": "Sons of the Most Holy Redeemer", "text": "Sons of the Most Holy Redeemer\n\nThe Congregation of the Sons of the Most Holy Redeemer (Latin: \"Filii Sanctissimi Redemptoris\", Latin siglum: F.SS.R.), known as the Transalpine Redemptorists or The Sons, are a religious institute of the Catholic Church canonically erected in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Aberdeen and based on Papa Stronsay in the Orkney Islands, Scotland, as well as in the city of Christchurch, New Zealand. Their monastic rule is based on that of St. Alphonsus Liguori, although they have no formal connection to the Redemptorist religious institute.\n\nThe congregation was founded as The Transalpine Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer (C.SS.R.) on 2 August 1988 by Father Michael Mary Sim C.SS.R. as a traditionalist Catholic Redemptorist religious community affiliated with Society of St. Pius X, and were called the Transalpine Redemptorists. On 3 December 1987 Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre officially blessed the undertaking of the foundation. \n\nOriginally based at the Monastery of the Sorrowful and Immaculate Heart of Mary on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, they moved to the Mother of Perpetual Succour Monastery in Joinville, Haute-Marne, France, in 1994, until they bought the island of Papa Stronsay on 31 May 1999. There they established the Golgotha Monastery, and publish \"The Catholic\" monthly since 1982. They promote their own version of a Redemptorist \"Purgatorian Confraternity\".\n\nIn July 2007 the institute established a second monastery in Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\nIn June 2008, the community petitioned the Holy See for reconciliation and this was accepted by Pope Benedict XVI who declared them to be in \"canonical good standing\" within the Catholic Church. The motu proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\" was the main incentive which caused the community to reconsider their position. Most of the members accepted the move, while a remnant continue to be affiliated with the SSPX. However, they were not \"canonically erected\" and thus their faculties for celebrating Mass were for some years restricted to the islands of Papa Stronsay and Stronsay.\n\nThey changed their official name to The Sons of the Most Holy Redeemer (F.SS.R.), and made minor changes to their religious habit in order to more clearly differentiate it from that of the Redemptorist Congregation.\n\nOn 15 August 2012, the community of fifteen was granted canonical recognition as a Clerical Institute of Diocesan Right by Dom Hugh Gilbert, O.S.B., Bishop of Aberdeen. In June 2013, the congregation celebrated the ordination in Rome of two of its members.\n\nIn 2001 Papa Stronsay had a population of 10 although by 2011 there were no \"usual residents\" living there as recorded by the census. Nonetheless, Papa Stronsay continues to be the home and mother-house of the Sons of the Most Holy Redeemer, as their active online presence demonstrates.\n\n"}
{"id": "25076651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25076651", "title": "Sultana Mahdokht", "text": "Sultana Mahdokht\n\nSultana Mahdokht (died January 12, 319) was the daughter of Pholar, the Prince of Dorsas. Together with her brothers Adorfrowa and Mehrnarsa, Mahdokht is a canonized saint in all branches of the Church of the East due to her and her brothers' execution on January 12, 319 A.D. for leaving the Zoroastrian faith at a time when apostasy was punished by death under Shapur II. All branches of the Church of the East commemorate their feast day on January 12. She is also the patron saint of the village of Araden, which is located in northern Iraq. The Sultana Mahdokht Church dating from the 4th century in Araden commemorates her by bearing her name (which comes ). It is a pilgrimage site for many Syriac Christians.\n"}
{"id": "3846639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3846639", "title": "Sunrise (magazine)", "text": "Sunrise (magazine)\n\nSunrise is a journal of the Theosophical Society Pasadena.\n\nThe journal was founded by James A. Long in October 1951. After the death of Long, the journal has been published by Grace F. Knoche. The journal is also translated into Dutch and German. Since 1975 the journal issues a yearly special edition. \n\n\"Sunrise\" is a theosophic journal, and the articles reflect this. They cover philosophic, spiritual and scientific themes.\n\n"}
{"id": "8348117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8348117", "title": "Victor J. Stenger", "text": "Victor J. Stenger\n\nVictor John Stenger ( January 29, 1935 – August 25, 2014) was an American particle physicist, philosopher, author, and religious skeptic.\n\nFollowing a career as a research scientist in the field of particle physics, Stenger was associated with New Atheism and he also authored popular science books. He published twelve books for general audiences on physics, quantum mechanics, cosmology, philosophy, religion, atheism, and pseudoscience, including the 2007 best-seller \": How Science Shows That God Does Not Exist\". His final book was \"God and the Multiverse: Humanity's Expanding View of the Cosmos\" (September 9, 2014). He was also a regular featured science columnist for the Huffington Post.\n\nHe was an advocate for removing the influence of religion from scientific research, commercial activity, and the political decision process, and he coined the phrase \"Science flies you to the moon. Religion flies you into buildings\".\n\nVictor J. Stenger was born on January 29, 1935 and raised in a working-class neighborhood of Bayonne, New Jersey. His father was a Lithuanian immigrant and his mother was the daughter of Hungarian immigrants. He died in August 2014 at the age of 79.\n\nStenger attended public schools in Bayonne, New Jersey before going on to receive a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Newark College of Engineering (now the New Jersey Institute of Technology). He then moved to Los Angeles on a Hughes Aircraft Company fellowship, where he earned a Master of Science from UCLA in 1958 and a Ph.D in 1963, both in physics.\n\nHe then moved to Hawai'i, where he was a member of the Department of Physics at the University of Hawaii until his 2000 retirement. He held visiting positions on the faculties of the University of Heidelberg in Germany, Oxford University (twice), and was a visiting researcher at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in England, the National Nuclear Physics Laboratory in Frascati, Italy, and the University of Florence in Italy. He was also an Emeritus Professor of physics at the University of Hawaii, and Adjunct Professor of Philosophy at the University of Colorado.\n\nStenger's first peer-reviewed publication was in 1964, and his research career continued until his retirement in 2000. His research involved work that determined properties of gluons, quarks, strange particles, and neutrinos. Stenger focused on neutrino astronomy and very high-energy gamma rays.\n\nStenger was an advocate of philosophical naturalism, skepticism, and atheism. He was a prominent critic of intelligent design and the aggressive use of the anthropic principle. He maintained that if consciousness and free will do exist, they will eventually be explained in a scientific manner that invokes neither the mystical nor the supernatural. He repeatedly criticized those who invoke the perplexities of quantum mechanics in support of the paranormal, mysticism, or supernatural phenomena, and wrote several books and articles aiming to debunk contemporary pseudoscience.\n\nStenger was also a public speaker, including taking part in the 2008 \"Origins Conference\" hosted by the Skeptics Society at the California Institute of Technology alongside Nancey Murphy, Hugh Ross, Leonard Susskind, Kenneth R. Miller, Sean Carroll and Michael Shermer. Stenger debated several Christian apologists and scientists such as William Lane Craig, Hugh Ross, John Lennox and David J. Bartholomew on topics such as the existence of God and the relationship between science and religion.\n\nIn 1992, Uri Geller sued Stenger and Prometheus Books for $4 million, claiming defamation for questioning his \"psychic powers.\" The suit was dismissed and Geller was ordered to pay court costs.\n\nIn a 2012 paper in \"PASA\", astronomer Luke Barnes argued that many of Stenger's claims about fine-tuning were highly problematic, and that Stenger's arguments were examples of various fallacies such as \"the Cheap Binoculars Fallacy\" (don’t waste money buying expensive binoculars; simply stand closer to the object you wish to view). Stenger responded, disputing Barnes' objections and reiterating: \"The universe is not fine-tuned for us. We are fine-tuned to the universe\" and \"...no prominent physicist or cosmologist has disputed my basic conclusions. Barnes does not invalidate these conclusions and misunderstands and misrepresents much of what is in the book.\"\n\n\nIn recent years, Stenger's books and articles were mostly written for the wider educated public. These writings explore the interfaces between physics and cosmology, and philosophy, religion, and pseudoscience. The following books were all published by Prometheus Books.\n\n\n\nFrom 1998 to 2011 Stenger wrote for the column \"Reality Check,\" in \"Skeptical Briefs\", the quarterly newsletter of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI).\n\nSince August, 2010 he was also a regular featured science columnist for the Huffington Post.\n\nStenger has been included in CSI's Pantheon of Skeptics. The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "21570873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21570873", "title": "Way of the Five Pecks of Rice", "text": "Way of the Five Pecks of Rice\n\nThe Way of the Five Pecks of Rice () or the Way of the Celestial Master, commonly abbreviated to simply The Celestial Masters, was a Chinese Taoist movement founded by the first Celestial Master Zhang Daoling in 142 CE. At its height, the movement controlled a theocratic state in the Hanzhong valley, north of Sichuan. In 215 CE, the state was incorporated into Cao Cao's Kingdom of Wei, and the followers of the Celestial Master were dispersed all over China.\n\nThe Celestial Masters believed that qi pervaded everything, and in order to achieve immortality, the correct balance of qi had to be present within the body. Having a poor quantity of qi in the body, would result in illness, and eventually death. Meditation could be used to restore qi to the body, but sex was to be avoided, as it could result in the loss of qi. If there was the correct balance of qi within the body upon death, an adherent could 'feign death' and be reborn. If not, an adherent would be transported to an earthly prison where he would face eternal torment.\n\nThe Hanzhong state was divided into 24 regions which were led by an official. Each district had a civil register which recorded people's names and ranks. Three times a year, the registers were updated at the same time as an important feast. While a child's rank rose automatically, adults had to raise their own rank through religious achievement or marriage. Higher ranked people had more divine generals at their command, which could be used to fight demons that caused bad luck or disease. The state had a system of law that encouraged confession and benevolence rather than strict punishment. Criminals were asked to confess their crimes and meditate, and were given public work to do as a sentence. Few texts written by the Hanzhong Celestial Masters survive, with the most important being the Xiang'er commentary to the Dao De Jing. While the Hanzhong state lasted for only twenty-five years, their beliefs influenced all subsequent Daoist movements.\n\nIn 142 CE Zhang Daoling announced that Laozi had appeared to him and commanded him to rid the world of decadence and establish a new state consisting only of the ‘chosen people.’ Zhang became the first Celestial Master, and began to spread his newly founded movement throughout the province of Sichuan. The movement was initially called the Way of the Five Pecks of Rice, because each person wishing to join was required to donate five pecks of rice (actually five \"dǒu\", equal to 13.6 US gallons or 5.9 pecks). The movement spread rapidly, particularly under his son Zhang Heng () and grandson Zhang Lu. The Zhangs were able to convert many groups to their cause, such as the Bandun Man (belonging to the Ba people), which strengthened their movement. In 184, Zhang Xiu (, not related to Zhang Lu) rebelled against the Han Dynasty. In 191, Zhang Lu and Zhang Xiu were sent to conquer the Hanzhong valley, just north of Sichuan, which was under Zhang Xiu's control. During the subsequent battle, Zhang Xiu was killed, and Zhang Lu founded the theocratic state of Zhanghan, enjoying full independence.\n\nIn 215, Cao Cao, the ruler of the Kingdom of Wei attacked the Hanzhong state, and forced Zhang Lu to flee to Eastern Sichuan, where he later surrendered. Zhang was given a title and land, as were several other family members and generals. His followers were forced to resettle in other parts of China, with one group being sent to the Chang'an area, and another being sent to Luoyang. Zhang and his family relocated to Cao Cao's administrative headquarters in Ye, located in today's Henan province. He then used his own popularity as a religious leader to lend legitimacy to the Wei, proclaiming that the Wei court had inherited divine authority from the Daoist church, as well as from Confucian laws. Shortly after the surrender, Zhang Lu died and was succeeded by his son, Fu. After this point there are few historical sources until 255 CE, when a text indicates that the Celestial Master community was fragmenting as a result of the political turmoil within the Wei Kingdom\n\nThe collapse of the Kingdom of Wei in 260 CE, along with the fall of Northern China to the Huns in 317, further scattered adherents to the Celestial Master. The Celestial Masters later reemerged in the 4th and 5th centuries as two distinct offshoots, the Northern and Southern Celestial Masters.\nThe only significant Celestial Master text that survives from the Hanzhong period is the Xiang'er commentary to the Dao De Jing. This text gives insight into the Celestial Masters’ physiological beliefs, meditation practices and rituals. In addition, the commentary reinterprets the Dao De Jing to have all of humanity as its intended audience, instead of only a sage. The Taiping Jing, a text attributed to the Yellow Turbans, was not a Celestial Master text, but reflects at least in part some Celestial Master thought and practice. A later text written in 255 CE, known as the \"Commands and Admonitions for the Families of the Great Dao\" was composed to a divided Celestial Master community after the dispersal of the Hanzhong population. While written in the persona of Zhang Lu, it is probable that this text was not written by him, as he had probably died by 255 CE.\n\nThe Celestial Masters believed that there was an upcoming apocalypse that would nearly destroy humanity. Only 18,000 adherents of the Celestial Master who had the right balance of qi would survive the disaster. These were the seed people that would repopulate the earth after the destruction.\n\nThe foundation of Celestial Master belief is that there is an energy source known as qi, that is born from the Dao and is the source of life all things. The human body contains spirits that need to be nourished by the proper balance of qi. There are three types of qi: yin qi, yang qi and blended qi, which is mixed yin/yang qi. The goal of a Daoist is to achieve transcendence to a higher plane. In order to do this, they must preserve and harmonize their internal spirits. Only through meditation that guides qi correctly throughout the body, can the spirits be harmonized correctly. While it is known that the Celestial Masters meditated in order to obtain qi, there is no surviving evidence that describes their meditation practices.\n\nOne common goal of early Daoism was to extend life by achieving immortality. The Celestial Masters believed that in order to achieve immortality, one was not supposed to extend life in the current world, but rather 'feign death' in this world, and be reborn on the other side. In order to feign death, an adept had to have perfectly harmonized internal spirits. When someone with refined internal spirits died in this world, their spirit would venture to the Palace of Grand Darkness where their form would be refined and then reborn in a perfected state on the other side. There are no surviving texts that describe what kind of place the 'other side' was. Those that failed to harmonize their internal spirits prior to death would be reborn in the underground earth-prisons, where they would be subject to eternal torment and toil.\n\nIn the Hanzhong community, everyone was regarded as ill in some way. This was because sin caused qi to leave the body, and qi was necessary for life. In order to cure any illness, repentance was a crucial factor in ensuring that the loss of qi could be staunched. Repentance could be accomplished by spending time in a 'Chamber of Silence,' and reflecting on one's sins, or by beating one's breasts and kowtowing to heaven. Illness could be cured in other ways as well, such as using medicinal herbs and by listening to ritual music. Eating very little was also of extreme importance, and an ideal diet would consist of no food at all, but only of noncorporeal things such as air, which the person could absorb through meditation.\n\nPracticing correct sexual practices was one method of perfecting the body's internal spirits. The Celestial Masters believed that semen is the embodiment of qi. If someone ejaculated too often, their life would be shortened. In fact, the Xiang'er indicates that people should not even have sex for the purposes of reproduction. The Celestial Masters frowned upon the practice of heqi (also known as 'The Union of the Breaths') of not ejaculating during sex in order to 'nourish the brain', and advocated non-ejaculation simply as a way to avoid losing qi. In addition, the Celestial Masters thought that the method of stealing a woman's qi to replenish the man's own qi was completely wrong, and should not be practiced. Despite their opposition to 'heqi' and reproductive sex, there is the possibility that the Celestial Masters supported sex for purposes other than reproduction, and a Celestial Master text from around the 5th century describes an elaborate sexual ritual.See Kalinowski (1985) for a full description of the ritual.\n\nThe region governed by the Celestial Masters was divided into 24 regions for both administrative and religious reasons. Each of these 24 regions were connected with one of the Five Phases, one of the 24 periods of the year and with one of the 28 constellations of the zodiac. Depending on their birth signs, each adherent belonged to one of these districts. Each of the 24 regions was administered by 24 officials, who had under their command 240 armies of spirits, composed of 2400 generals, 2400 officers and 240000 soldiers. This system of administration reflected the utopian system of governance described in the Zhouli.\n\nAdministration and religion were closely linked in the system of the Celestial Masters. Adherents were grouped by families, and each was attached to a district. Families and districts, and the gods all held copies of civil registers. The registers were detailed records of the people, and recorded each person's rank, identity and location. Any changes to those registered had to be accompanied by a monetary contribution known as a 'wage of faith.' Requests to the gods followed a bureaucratic model, and were drawn up according to specific administrative codes. The effectiveness of these requests depended upon the accuracy of the registers kept by the gods.\n\nNew members of the sect were divided into groups led by instructors. Neophytes were instructed by a catechism similar to that found in the Xiang'er that was likely a type of proto-meditation that later became widespread in movements such as the Shangqing School of Daoism. These instructors handled religious and administrative duties, receiving taxes, and set up road-side inns for travelers.\n\nThe rank of each person was determined by how many divine generals they had at their disposal, and by the number of divine scriptures they had obtained. These divine generals were used to fight wandering demons that could bring misfortune or illness on someone. A person received their first general at the age of six years, and in subsequent ceremonies would be given more and generals and achieve a higher ranking until a full complement was achieved at the age of nineteen. Marriage would unite two sets of generals, thus giving a couple use of 150 divine generals. After marriage, further increases in ranking could only be achieved by religious achievement.\n\nOn certain dates of the year, such as the equinoxes, group ceremonies took place at which masters disseminated their teachings. During these ceremonies, communal feasts often took place, where food was eaten and offered to the gods. The feasts also took place when a birth or death occurred, or in order to bring happiness and prevent evil. The participants in such a feast were organized based on their religious standing, with merit and seniority being the determining factors. During the three important dates known as \"Sanyuan\", the most important feasts were held. During these thrice-annual feasts, a census would be taken recording births, deaths and peoples' movements. At this time, adherents were also expected to donate the five pecks of rice that gives the movement its name.\n\nIn the Hanzhong state, sin and criminal behavior were not differentiated. In order to eliminate sin, an adherent first had to acknowledge his crime, and then would have to go to a 'quiet room' to meditate. There, he would have to write three confessions which would be offered to the Lord of Heaven, the Lord of Earth and the Lord of Water. For public crimes, an accused would be pardoned three times for his actions and then be sentenced. A sentence depended on the type of crime, but always involved community service. For a minor crime, the sentence was usually to repair a road. A repeat offender might be asked to donate building materials to improve local buildings. Other laws banned alcohol and prohibited the killing of animals during the spring and summer.\n\nThe belief and practices of the Hanzhong Celestial Masters had a profound legacy upon future Daoist belief. The movement marked a significant change from earlier, philosophical Daoist movements. No longer was Daoism a philosophical pastime for the literate and wealthy; it was now promoted to all classes of society, including the illiterate and the non-Chinese. In addition, the Celestial Masters were the first Daoist group to form an organized priesthood that helped spread their beliefs. Being the first organized religious Daoists, the first Celestial Masters are the ancestors of all subsequent Daoist movements such as the Shangqing and Lingbao movements, as well as the medieval Zhengyi Daoists, who claimed affinity to the first Celestial Masters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48346074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48346074", "title": "Xiongdi Gong", "text": "Xiongdi Gong\n\nXiongdi Gong (Hanzi=兄弟公; pinyin=\"xiōngdì gōng\"; Hokkien=Ya Ti Kong) or 108 Saints (Hainan 108 Brothers) are the protector deities of seafaring. They are usually worshiped along with Shui Wei Sheng Niang at Chinese temples near the sea by fishermen or seafarers.Their altar usually contain only one red faced scholar statue.\n\nXiongdi Gong greatly affected the spiritual life in Hainan. Their cult is spread along with the immigrant of Hainan around the world and has become one of Hainan's identity.\n\nPeople of China was suffering under the imperialism of late Qing dynasty which triggered Chinese diaspora. On the time of Xianfeng Emperor (1831–1861), many Hainan people went to Annam (now Vietnam) to earn money for their families. Meantime, 109 men of Hainan planned to go home after their hard work to gain money. Another Hainan peoples who left in Annam also entrusted their saving or gift for their families to those 109 men. On their way back across the sea, the pirates captured their ships, toke their belonging, and killed them. But one man, the cook, managed to save because he was hiding under the deck.\n\nAfter the incident, Vietnam shores went stormy and the flock of crows was crowding the king's palace. The seer of the king said that those crows had foretelling a great crime which was about going unpunished. After a long search, the king heard a news about a pirate which was captured at the market. One of Hainan people recognized the ring which was used by a stranger, the same ring that he entrusted to the 109 Hainan for the wedding gift of his brother. After a fight, both of them was arrested and the stranger admit his crime. The king ordered to capture the rest of the pirates and confiscated their loot. After that, the king performed a ritual prayer to appeased the unrest souls of the 108 Hainan brothers and the flock of crows was gone from his palace.\n\nThe tragedy of the 108 Hainan brothers had reached Hainan. The local people built a memorial temple for them and annually commemorating their death day on 27th day of the 5th lunar month. Hainan people worship them as the protectors of seafaring. The seafarers who want to go abroad usually pray to Xiongdi Gong and bring a cook as their witness.\n\n"}
{"id": "3019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3019", "title": "`Abdu'l-Bahá", "text": "`Abdu'l-Bahá\n\n`Abdu’l-Bahá' (; Persian: ‎, 23 May 1844 – 28 November 1921), born `Abbás (), was the eldest son of Bahá'u'lláh and served as head of the Bahá'í Faith from 1892 until 1921. `Abdu’l-Bahá was later canonized as the last of three \"central figures\" of the religion, along with Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb, and his writings and authenticated talks are regarded as a source of Bahá'í sacred literature. \n\nHe was born in Tehran to an aristocratic family. At the age of eight his father was imprisoned during a government crackdown on the Bábí Faith and the family's possessions were looted, leaving them in virtual poverty. His father was exiled from their native Iran, and the family went to live in Baghdad, where they stayed for nine years. They were later called by the Ottoman state to Istanbul before going into another period of confinement in Edirne and finally the prison-city of `Akká (Acre). `Abdu’l-Bahá remained a political prisoner there until the Young Turk Revolution freed him in 1908 at the age of 64. He then made several journeys to the West to spread the Bahá'í message beyond its middle-eastern roots, but the onset of World War I left him largely confined to Haifa from 1914–1918. The war replaced the openly hostile Ottoman authorities with the British Mandate, who knighted him for his help in averting famine following the war. \n\nIn 1892 `Abdu'l-Bahá was appointed in his father's will to be his successor and head of the Bahá'í Faith. He faced opposition from virtually all his family members, but held the loyalty of the great majority of Bahá'ís around the world. His \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\" helped galvanize Bahá'ís in North America into spreading the Bahá'í teachings to new territories, and his Will and Testament laid the foundation for the current Bahá'í administrative order. Many of his writings, prayers and letters are extant, and his discourses with the Western Bahá'ís emphasize the growth of the faith by the late 1890s. \n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá's given name was `Abbás. Depending on context, he would have gone by either Mírzá `Abbás (Persian) or `Abbás Effendi (Turkish), both of which are equivalent to the English Sir `Abbás. He preferred the title of `Abdu'l-Bahá (\"servant of Bahá\", a reference to his father). He is commonly referred to in Bahá'í texts as \"The Master\".\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá was born in Tehran, Iran on 23 May 1844 (5th of Jamadiyu'l-Avval, 1260 AH), the eldest son of Bahá'u'lláh and Navváb. He was born on the very same night on which the Báb declared his mission. Born with the given name of `Abbás, he was named after his grandfather Mírzá `Abbás Núrí, a prominent and powerful nobleman. As a child, `Abdu'l-Bahá was shaped by his father's position as a prominent Bábí. He recalled how he met the Bábí Táhirih and how she would take \"me on to her knee, caress me, and talk to me. I admired her most deeply\". `Abdu’l-Bahá had a happy and carefree childhood. The family’s Tehran home and country houses were comfortable and beautifully decorated. `Abdu'l-Bahá enjoyed playing in the gardens with his younger sister with whom he was very close. Along with his younger siblings – a sister, Bahíyyih, and a brother, Mihdí – the three lived in an environment of privilege, happiness and comfort. With his father declining a position as minister of the royal court; during his young boyhood `Abdu’l-Bahá witnessed his parents' various charitable endeavours, which included converting part of the home to a hospital ward for women and children.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá received a haphazard education during his childhood. It was customary not to send children of nobility to schools. Most noblemen were educated at home briefly in scripture, rhetoric, calligraphy and basic mathematics. Many were educated to prepare themselves for life in the royal court. Despite a brief spell at a traditional preparatory school at the age of seven for one year, `Abdu'l-Bahá received no formal education. As he grew he was educated by his mother, and uncle. Most of his education however, came from his father. Years later in 1890 Edward Granville Browne described how `Abdu'l-Bahá was \"one more eloquent of speech, more ready of argument, more apt of illustration, more intimately acquainted with the sacred books of the Jews, the Christians, and the Muhammadans...scarcely be found even amongst the eloquent.\"\n\nWhen `Abdu'l-Bahá was seven, he contracted tuberculosis and was expected to die. Though the malady faded away, he would be plagued with bouts of illness for the rest of his life.\n\nOne event that affected `Abdu'l-Bahá greatly during his childhood was the imprisonment of his father when `Abdu'l-Bahá was eight years old; the imprisonment led to his family being reduced to poverty and being attacked in the streets by other children. `Abdu'l-Bahá accompanied his mother to visit Bahá'u'lláh who was then imprisoned in the infamous subterranean dungeon the Síyáh-Chál. He described how \"I saw a dark, steep place. We entered a small, narrow doorway, and went down two steps, but beyond those one could see nothing. In the middle of the stairway, all of a sudden we heard His [Bahá’u’lláh's]…voice: 'Do not bring him in here', and so they took me back\".\n\nBahá'u'lláh was eventually released from prison but ordered into exile, and `Abdu'l-Bahá then eight joined his father on the journey to Baghdad in the winter (January to April) of 1853. During the journey `Abdu'l-Bahá suffered from frost-bite. After a year of difficulties Bahá'u'lláh absented himself rather than continue to face the conflict with Mirza Yahya and secretly secluded himself in the mountains of Sulaymaniyah in April 1854 a month before `Abdu'l-Bahá's tenth birthday. Mutual sorrow resulted in him, his mother and sister becoming constant companions. `Abdu'l-Bahá was particularly close to both, and his mother took active participation in his education and upbringing. During the two-year absence of his father `Abdu'l-Bahá took up the duty of managing the affairs of the family, before his age of maturity (14 in middle-eastern society) and was known to be occupied with reading and, at a time of hand-copied scriptures being the primary means of publishing, was also engaged in copying the writings of the Báb. `Abdu’l-Bahá also took an interest in the art of horse riding and, as he grew, became a renowned rider.\n\nIn 1856, news of an ascetic carrying on discourses with local Súfí leaders that seemed to possibly be Bahá'u'lláh reached the family and friends. Immediately, family members and friends went to search for the elusive dervish – and in March brought Bahá'u'lláh back to Baghdad. On seeing his father, `Abdu'l-Bahá fell to his knees and wept loudly \"Why did you leave us?\", and this followed with his mother and sister doing the same. `Abdu'l-Bahá soon became his father's secretary and shield. During the sojourn in the city `Abdu’l-Bahá grew from a boy into a young man. He was noted as a \"remarkably fine looking youth\", and remembered for his charity and amiableness. Having passed the age of maturity `Abdu'l-Bahá was regularly seen in the mosques of Baghdad discussing religious topics and the scripture as a young man. Whilst in Baghdad, `Abdu'l-Bahá composed a commentary at the request of his father on the Muslim tradition of \"I was a Hidden Treasure\" for a Súfí leader named `Alí Shawkat Páshá. `Abdu'l-Bahá was fifteen or sixteen at the time and `Alí Shawkat Páshá regarded the more than 11000 word essay as a remarkable feat for somebody of his age. In 1863 in what became known as the Garden of Ridván Bahá'u'lláh announced to a few that he was the manifestation of God and He whom God shall make manifest whose coming had been foretold by the Báb. On day eight of the twelve days, it is believed `Abdu'l-Baha was the first person Baha'u'llah revealed his claim to.\n\nIn 1863 Bahá'u'lláh was summoned to Constantinople (Istanbul), and thus his whole family including `Abdu'l-Bahá, then nineteen, accompanied him on his 110-day journey. The journey to Constantinople was another wearisome journey, and `Abdu'l-Bahá helped feed the exiles. It was here that his position became more prominent amongst the Bahá’ís. This was further solidified by Bahá’u’lláh’s tablet of the Branch in which he constantly exalts his son's virtues and station. The family were soon exiled to Adrianople and `Abdu'l-Bahá went with the family. `Abdu’l-Bahá again suffered from frostbite.\n\nIn Adrianople `Abdu’l-Bahá was regarded as the sole comforter of his family – in particular to his mother. At this point `Abdu'l-Bahá was known by the Bahá'ís as \"the Master\", and by non-Bahá'ís as `Abbás Effendi (\"Effendi\" signifies \"Sir\"). It was in Adrianople that Bahá’u’lláh referred to his son as \"the Mystery of God\". The title of \"Mystery of God\" symbolises, according to Bahá'ís, that `Abdu'l-Bahá is not a manifestation of God but how a \"person of `Abdu'l-Bahá the incompatible characteristics of a human nature and superhuman knowledge and perfection have been blended and are completely harmonized\". `Abdu'l-Bahá was at this point noted for having black hair which flowed to his shoulders, large blue eyes, rose-through-alabaster coloured skin and a fine nose. Bahá'u'lláh gave his son many other titles such as \"Ghusn-i-A'zam\" (meaning \"Mightiest Branch\" or \"Mightier Branch\"), the \"Branch of Holiness\", \"the Center of the Covenant\" and the apple of his eye. `Abdu'l-Bahá (\"the Master\") was devastated when hearing the news that he and his family were to be exiled separately from Bahá'u'lláh. It was, according to Bahá'ís, through his intercession that the idea was reverted and the family were allowed to be exiled together.\n\nAt the age of 24, `Abdu'l-Bahá was clearly chief-steward to his father and an outstanding member of the Bahá’í community. Bahá’u’lláh and his family were – in 1868 – exiled to the penal colony of Acre, Palestine where it was expected that the family would perish. Arrival in `Akká was distressing for the family and exiles. They were greeted in a hostile manner by the surrounding population and his sister and father fell dangerously ill. When told that the women were to sit on the shoulders of the men to reach the shore, `Abdu'l-Bahá took a chair and carried the women to the bay of `Akká. `Abdu'l-Bahá was able to procure some anesthetic and nursed the sick. The Bahá’ís were imprisoned under horrendous conditions in a cluster of cells covered in excrement and dirt. `Abdu'l-Bahá himself fell dangerously ill with dysentery, however a sympathetic soldier permitted a physician to help cure him. The population shunned them, the soldiers treated them the same, and the behaviour of Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani (an Azali) did not help matters. Morale was further destroyed with the accidental death of `Abdu'l-Bahá’s youngest brother Mírzá Mihdí at the age of 22. His death devastated the family – particularly his mother and father – and the grieving `Abdu'l-Bahá kept a night-long vigil beside his brother’s body.\n\nOver time, he gradually took over responsibility for the relationships between the small Bahá'i exile community and the outside world. It was through his interaction with the people of `Akká (Acre) that, according to the Bahá'ís, they recognized the innocence of the Bahá'ís, and thus the conditions of imprisonment were eased. Four months after the death of Mihdí the family moved from the prison to the House of `Abbúd. The people of `Akká started to respect the Bahá'ís and in particular, `Abdu'l-Bahá. `Abdu'l-Bahá was able to arrange for houses to be rented for the family, the family later moved to the Mansion of Bahjí around 1879 when an epidemic caused the inhabitants to flee.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá soon became very popular in the penal colony and Myron Henry Phelps a wealthy New York lawyer described how \"a crowd of human beings...Syrians, Arabs, Ethiopians, and many others\", all waited to talk and receive `Abdu'l-Bahá. He undertook a history of the Bábí religion through publication of A Traveller's Narrative (Makála-i-Shakhsí Sayyáh) in 1886, later translated and published in translation in 1891 through Cambridge University by the agency of Edward Granville Browne who described `Abdu'l-Bahá as: \n\nWhen `Abdu'l-Bahá was a young man, speculation was rife amongst the Bahá’ís to whom he would marry. Several young girls were seen as marriage prospects but `Abdu’l-Bahá seemed disinclined to marriage. On 8 March 1873, at the urging of his father, the twenty-eight-year-old `Abdu’l-Bahá married Fátimih Nahrí of Isfahán (1847–1938) a twenty-five-year-old from an upper-class family of the city. Her father was Mírzá Muḥammad `Alí Nahrí of Isfahan an eminent Bahá’í with prominent connections. Fátimih was brought from Persia to `Akká after both Bahá’u’lláh and his wife Navváb expressed an interest in her to marry `Abdu’l-Bahá. After a wearisome journey from Isfahán to Akka she finally arrived accompanied by her brother in 1872. The young couple were betrothed for about five months before the marriage itself commenced. In the meantime, Fátimih lived in the home of `Abdu'l-Bahá’s uncle Mírzá Músá. According to her later memoirs, Fátimih fell in love with `Abdu'l-Bahá on seeing him. `Abdu'l-Bahá himself had showed little inkling to marriage until meeting Fátimih; who was entitled Munírih by Bahá’u’lláh. Munírih is a title meaning \"Luminous\".\n\nThe marriage resulted in nine children. The first born was a son Mihdí Effendi who died aged about 3. He was followed by Ḍiyá'iyyih Khánum, Fu’ádíyyih Khánum (d. few years old), Rúhangíz Khánum (d. 1893), Túbá Khánum, Husayn Effendi (d.1887 aged 5), Túbá Khánum, Rúhá Khánum and Munnavar Khánum. The death of his children caused `Abdu’l-Bahá immense grief – in particular the death of his son Husayn Effendi came at a difficult time following the death of his mother and uncle. The surviving children (all daughters) were; Ḍiyá'iyyih Khánum (mother of Shoghi Effendi) (d. 1951) Túbá Khánum (1880–1959) Rúḥá Khánum and Munavvar Khánum (d. 1971). Bahá'u'lláh wished that the Bahá'ís follow the example of `Abdu'l-Bahá and gradually move away from polygamy. The marriage of `Abdu’l-Bahá to one woman and his choice to remain monogamous, from advice of his father and his own wish, legitimised the practice of monogamy to a people who hitherto had regarded polygamy as a righteous way of life.\n\nAfter Bahá'u'lláh died on 29 May 1892, the Will and Testament of Bahá'u'lláh named `Abdu'l-Bahá as Centre of the Covenant, successor and interpreter of Bahá'u'lláh's writings.\n\nBahá'u'lláh designates his successor with the following verses:\nThis translation of the \"Kitáb-i-'Ahd\" is based on a solecism, however, as the terms \"Akbar\" and \"A'zam\" do not mean, respectively, 'Greater' and 'Most Great'. Not only do the two words derive from entirely separate triconsonantal roots (\"Akbar\" from \"k-b-r\" and \"A'zam\" from \"ʿ-z-m\"), but the Arabic language possesses the elative, a stage of gradation, with no clear distinction between the comparative and superlative. In the Will and Testament `Abdu'l-Bahá's half-brother, Muhammad `Alí, was mentioned by name as being subordinate to `Abdu'l-Bahá. Muhammad `Alí became jealous of his half-brother and set out to establish authority for himself as an alternative leader with the support of his brothers Badi'u'llah and Diya'u'llah. He began correspondence with Bahá'ís in Iran, initially in secret, casting doubts in others' minds about `Abdu'l-Bahá. While most Bahá'ís followed `Abdu'l-Bahá, a handful followed Muhammad `Alí including such leaders as Mirza Javad and Ibrahim George Kheiralla, an early Bahá'í missionary to America.\n\nMuhammad `Alí and Mirza Javad began to openly accuse `Abdu'l-Bahá of taking on too much authority, suggesting that he believed himself to be a Manifestation of God, equal in status to Bahá'u'lláh. It was at this time that `Abdu'l-Bahá, in order to provide proof of the falsity of the accusations leveled against him, in tablets to the West, stated that he was to be known as \"`Abdu'l-Bahá\" an Arabic phrase meaning the Servant of Bahá to make it clear that he was not a Manifestation of God, and that his station was only servitude. `Abdu'l-Bahá left a Will and Testament that set up the framework of administration. The two highest institutions were the Universal House of Justice, and the Guardianship, for which he appointed Shoghi Effendi as the Guardian. With the exception of `Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, Muhammad `Alí was supported by all of the remaining male relatives of Bahá'u'lláh, including Shoghi Effendi's father, Mírzá Hádí Shírází. However Muhammad `Alí's and his families statements had very little effect on the Bahá'ís in general - in the `Akká area, the followers of Muhammad `Alí represented six families at most, they had no common religious activities, and were almost wholly assimilated into Muslim society.\n\nBy the end of 1898, Western pilgrims started coming to Akka on pilgrimage to visit `Abdu'l-Bahá; this group of pilgrims, including Phoebe Hearst, was the first time that Bahá'ís raised up in the West had met `Abdu'l-Bahá. The first group arrived in 1898 and throughout late 1898 to early 1899 Western Bahá’ís sporadically visited `Abdu'l-Bahá. The group was relatively young containing mainly women from high American society in their 20s. The group of Westerners aroused suspicion for the authorities, and consequently `Abdu'l-Bahá’s confinement was tightened. During the next decade `Abdu'l-Bahá would be in constant communication with Bahá'ís around the world, helping them to teach the religion; the group included May Ellis Bolles in Paris, Englishman Thomas Breakwell, American Herbert Hopper, French , Susan Moody, Lua Getsinger, and American Laura Clifford Barney. It was Laura Clifford Barney who, by asking questions of `Abdu'l-Bahá over many years and many visits to Haifa, compiled what later became the book Some Answered Questions.\n\nDuring the final years of the 19th century, while `Abdu'l-Bahá was still officially a prisoner and confined to `Akka, he organized the transfer of the remains of the Báb from Iran to Palestine. He then organized the purchase of land on Mount Carmel that Bahá'u'lláh had instructed should be used to lay the remains of the Báb, and organized for the construction of the Shrine of the Báb. This process took another 10 years. With the increase of pilgrims visiting `Abdu'l-Bahá, Muhammad `Alí worked with the Ottoman authorities to re-introduce stricter terms on `Abdu'l-Bahá's imprisonment in August 1901. By 1902, however, due to the Governor of `Akka being supportive of `Abdu'l-Bahá, the situation was greatly eased; while pilgrims were able to once again visit `Abdu'l-Bahá, he was confined to the city. In February 1903, two followers of Muhammad `Alí, including Badi'u'llah and Siyyid `Aliy-i-Afnan, broke with Muhammad `Ali and wrote books and letters giving details of Muhammad `Ali's plots and noting that what was circulating about `Abdu'l-Bahá was fabrication.\n\nFrom 1902 to 1904, in addition to the building of the Shrine of the Báb that `Abdu'l-Bahá was directing, he started to put into execution two different projects; the restoration of the House of the Báb in Shiraz, Iran and the construction of the first Bahá'í House of Worship in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. `Abdu'l-Bahá asked Aqa Mirza Aqa to coordinate the work so that the house of the Báb would be restored to the state that it was at the time of the Báb's declaration to Mulla Husayn in 1844; he also entrusted the work on the House of Worship to Vakil-u'd-Dawlih.\n\nDuring this period, `Abdu'l-Bahá communicated with a number Young Turks, opposed to the reign of Sultan Abdul Hamid II, including Namık Kemal, Ziya Pasha and Midhat Pasha, in an attempt to disseminate Bahá'í thought into their political ideology. He emphasized Bahá'ís \"seek freedom and love liberty, hope for equality, are well-wishers of humanity and ready to sacrifice their lives to unite humanity\" but on a more broad approach than the Young Turks. Abdullah Cevdet, one of the founders of the Committee of Union and Progress who considered the Bahá'í Faith an intermediary step between Islam and the ultimate abandonment of religious belief, would go on trial for defense of Bahá'ís in a periodical he founded.\n\n‛Abdu'l-Bahá also had contact with military leaders as well, including such individuals as Bursalı Mehmet Tahir Bey and Hasan Bedreddin. The latter, who was involved in the overthrow of Sultan Abdülaziz, is commonly known as Bedri Paşa or Bedri Pasha and is referred to in Persian Bahá'í sources as Bedri Bey (Badri Beg). He was a Bahá'í who translated ‛Abdu’l-Baha's works into French.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá also met Muhammad Abduh, one of the key figures of Islamic Modernism and the Salafi movement, in Beirut, at a time when the two men were both opposed to the Ottoman \"ulama\" and shared similar goals of religious reform. Rashid Rida asserts that during his visits to Beirut, `Abdu'l-Bahá would attend Abduh's study sessions. Regarding the meetings of `Abdu'l-Bahá and Muhammad 'Abduh, Shoghi Effendi asserts that \"His several interviews with the well-known Shaykh Muhammad ‘Abdu served to enhance immensely the growing prestige of the community and spread abroad the fame of its most distinguished member.\"\n\nDue to `Abdu'l-Bahá's political activities and alleged accusation against him by Muhammad `Ali, a Commission of Inquiry interviewed `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1905, with the result that he was almost exiled to Fezzan. In response, `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote the sultan a letter protesting that his followers refrain from involvement in partisan politics and that his \"tariqa\" had guided many Americans to Islam. The next few years in `Akka were relatively free of pressures and pilgrims were able to come and visit `Abdu'l-Bahá. By 1909 the mausoleum of the Shrine of the Báb was completed.\n\nThe 1908 Young Turks revolution freed all political prisoners in the Ottoman Empire, and `Abdu'l-Bahá was freed from imprisonment. His first action after his freedom was to visit the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh in Bahji. While `Abdu'l-Bahá continued to live in `Akka immediately following the revolution, he soon moved to live in Haifa near the Shrine of the Báb. In 1910, with the freedom to leave the country, he embarked on a three-year journey to Egypt, Europe, and North America, spreading the Bahá'í message.\n\nFrom August to December 1911, `Abdu'l-Bahá visited cities in Europe, including London, Bristol, and Paris. The purpose of these trips was to support the Bahá'í communities in the west and to further spread his father's teachings.\n\nIn the following year, he undertook a much more extensive journey to the United States and Canada to once again spread his father's teachings. He arrived in New York City on 11 April 1912, after declining an offer of passage on the RMS \"Titanic\", telling the Bahá'í believers, instead, to \"Donate this to charity.\" He instead travelled on a slower craft, the RMS \"Cedric\", and cited preference of a longer sea journey as the reason. After hearing of the Titanic's sinking on 16 April he was quoted as saying \"I was asked to sail upon the Titanic, but my heart did not prompt me to do so.\" While he spent most of his time in New York, he visited Chicago, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Washington, D.C., Boston and Philadelphia. In August of the same year he started a more extensive journey to places including New Hampshire, the Green Acre school in Maine, and Montreal (his only visit to Canada). He then travelled west to Minneapolis, San Francisco, Stanford, and Los Angeles before starting to return east at the end of October. On 5 December 1912 he set sail back to Europe.\n\nDuring his visit to North America he visited many missions, churches, and groups, as well as having scores of meetings in Bahá'ís' homes, and offering innumerable personal meetings with hundreds of people. During his talks he proclaimed Bahá'í principles such as the unity of God, unity of the religions, oneness of humanity, equality of women and men, world peace and economic justice. He also insisted that all his meetings be open to all races.\n\nHis visit and talks were the subject of hundreds of newspaper articles. In Boston newspaper reporters asked `Abdu'l-Bahá why he had come to America, and he stated that he had come to participate in conferences on peace and that just giving warning messages is not enough. `Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Montreal provided notable newspaper coverage; on the night of his arrival the editor of the \"Montreal Daily Star\" met with him and that newspaper along with The Montreal Gazette, \"Montreal Standard\", Le Devoir and La Presse among others reported on `Abdu'l-Bahá's activities. The headlines in those papers included \"Persian Teacher to Preach Peace\", \"Racialism Wrong, Says Eastern Sage, Strife and War Caused by Religious and National Prejudices\", and \"Apostle of Peace Meets Socialists, Abdul Baha's Novel Scheme for Distribution of Surplus Wealth.\" The \"Montreal Standard\", which was distributed across Canada, took so much interest that it republished the articles a week later; the Gazette published six articles and Montreal's largest French language newspaper published two articles about him. His 1912 visit to Montreal also inspired humourist Stephen Leacock to parody him in his bestselling 1914 book \"Arcadian Adventures with the Idle Rich\". In Chicago one newspaper headline included \"His Holiness Visits Us, Not Pius X but A. Baha,\" and `Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to California was reported in the \"Palo Altan\".\n\nBack in Europe, he visited London, Paris (where he stayed for two months), Stuttgart, Budapest, and Vienna. Finally, on 12 June 1913, he returned to Egypt, where he stayed for six months before returning to Haifa.\n\nOn 23 February 1914, at the eve of World War I, `Abdu'l-Bahá hosted Baron Edmond James de Rothschild, a member of the Rothschild banking family who was a leading advocate and financier of the Zionist movement, during one of his early trips to Palestine.\n\nDuring World War I (1914–1918) `Abdu'l-Bahá stayed in Palestine and was unable to travel. He carried on a limited correspondence, which included the \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\", a collection of 14 letters addressed to the Bahá'ís of North America, later described as one of three \"charters\" of the Bahá'í Faith. The letters assign a leadership role for the North American Bahá'ís in spreading the religion around the planet. \n\nHaifa was under real threat of Allied bombardment, enough that `Abdu'l-Bahá and other Bahá'ís temporarily retreated to the hills east of `Akka. \n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá was also under threats from Cemal Paşa, the Ottoman military chief who at one point expressed his desire to crucify him and destroy Bahá'í properties in Palestine. The surprisingly swift Megiddo offensive of the British General Allenby swept away the Turkish forces in Palestine before harm was done to the Bahá'ís, and the war was over less than two months later. \n\nThe conclusion of World War I led to the openly hostile Ottoman authorities being replaced by the more friendly British Mandate, allowing for a renewal of correspondence, pilgrims, and development of the Bahá'í World Centre properties. It was during this revival of activity that the Bahá'í Faith saw an expansion and consolidation in places like Egypt, the Caucasus, Iran, Turkmenistan, North America and South Asia under the leadership of `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\nThe end of the war brought about several political developments that `Abdu'l-Bahá commented on. The League of Nations formed in January 1920, representing the first instance of collective security through a worldwide organization. `Abdu'l-Bahá had written in 1875 for the need to establish a \"Union of the nations of the world\", and he praised the attempt through the League of Nations as an important step towards the goal. He also said that it was \"incapable of establishing Universal Peace\" because it did not represent all nations and had only trivial power over its member states. Around the same time, the British Mandate supported the ongoing immigration of Jews to Palestine. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentioned the immigration as a fulfillment of prophecy, and encouraged the Zionists to develop the land and \"elevate the country for all its inhabitants... They must not work to separate the Jews from the other Palestinians.\"\n\nThe war also left the region in famine. In 1901, `Abdu'l-Bahá had purchased about 1704 acres of scrubland near the Jordan river and by 1907 many Bahá'ís from Iran had begun sharecropping on the land. `Abdu'l-Bahá received between 20-33% of their harvest (or cash equivalent), which was shipped to Haifa. With the war still raging in 1917, `Abdu'l-Bahá received a large amount of wheat from the crops, and also bought other available wheat and shipped it all back to Haifa. The wheat arrived just after the British seized control, and the wheat was widely distributed to allay the famine. For this service in averting a famine in Northern Palestine he received a knighthood at a ceremony held in his honor at the home of the British Governor on 27 April 1920. He was later visited by General Allenby, King Faisal (later king of Iraq), Herbert Samuel (High Commissioner for Palestine), and Ronald Storrs (Military Governor of Jerusalem).\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá died on Monday, 28 November 1921, sometime after 1:15 a.m. (27th of Rabi' al-awwal, 1340 AH).\n\nWinston Churchill telegraphed the High Commissioner for Palestine, \"convey to the Bahá'í Community, on behalf of His Majesty's Government, their sympathy and condolescence.\" Similar messages came from Viscount Allenby, the Council of Ministers of Iraq, and others.\n\nOn his funeral, which was held the next day, Esslemont notes:\nAmong the talks delivered at the funeral, Shoghi Effendi records Stewart Symes giving the following tribute:\nHe was buried in the front room of the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel. His interment there is meant to be temporary, until his own mausoleum can be built.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá left a \"Will and Testament\" that was originally written between 1901-1908 and addressed to Shoghi Effendi, who at that time was only 4-11 years old. The will appoints Shoghi Effendi as the first in a line of Guardians of the religion, a hereditary executive role that may provide authoritative interpretations of scripture. `Abdu'l-Bahá directed all Bahá'ís to turn to him and obey him, and assured him of divine protection and guidance. The will also provided a formal reiteration of his teachings, such as the instructions to teach, manifest spiritual qualities, associate with all people, and shun Covenant-breakers. Many obligations of the Universal House of Justice and the Hands of the Cause were also elaborated. Shoghi Effendi later described the document as one of three \"charters\" of the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nThe authenticity and provisions of the will were almost universally accepted by Bahá'ís around the world, with the exception of Ruth White and a few other Americans who tried to protest Shoghi Effendi's leadership. \n\nDuring his lifetime there was some ambiguity among Bahá'ís as to his station relative to Bahá'u'lláh, and later to Shoghi Effendi. Some American newspapers reported him to be a Bahá'í prophet or the return of Christ. Shoghi Effendi later formalized his legacy as the last of three \"Central Figures\" of the Bahá'í Faith and the \"Perfect exemplar\" of the teachings, also claiming that holding him on an equal status to Bahá'u'lláh or Jesus was heretical. Shoghi Effendi also wrote that during the anticipated Bahá'í dispensation of 1000 years there will be no equal to `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\nThe total estimated number of tablets that `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote are over 27,000, of which only a fraction have been translated into English. His works fall into two groups including first his direct writings and second his lectures and speeches as noted by others. The first group includes \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\" written before 1875, \"A Traveller's Narrative\" written around 1886, the Resāla-ye sīāsīya or \"Sermon on the Art of Governance\" written in 1893, the \"Memorials of the Faithful\", and a large number of tablets written to various people; including various Western intellectuals such as August Forel which has been translated and published as the Tablet to Auguste-Henri Forel. The \"Secret of Divine Civilization\" and the \"Sermon on the Art of Governance\" were widely circulated anonymously.\n\nThe second group includes Some Answered Questions, which is an English translation of a series of table talks with Laura Barney, and Paris Talks, \"`Abdu'l-Baha in London\" and \"Promulgation of Universal Peace\" which are respectively addresses given by `Abdu'l-Bahá in Paris, London and the United States.\n\nThe following is a list of some of `Abdu'l-Bahá's many books, tablets, and talks:\n\n\n"}
