{"id": "7704977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7704977", "title": "90 Minutes in Heaven", "text": "90 Minutes in Heaven\n\n90 Minutes in Heaven is a 2004 Christian book written by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. The book documents the author's death and resurrection experience in 1989. \"90 Minutes in Heaven\" remained on the \"New York Times Bestseller List\" for more than five years and has sold over six million copies. The book has also been adapted into a feature-length film, released in theaters on September 11, 2015.\n\nOn January 18, 1989, Baptist minister Don Piper was on his way home from a conference in Texas when a semi-trailer truck struck his Ford Taurus while crossing a bridge. Piper describes that he was crushed by the roof of his car, the steering wheel impaled his chest, and the dashboard collapsed on his legs. When paramedics arrived, they could not find any sign of life in Piper and covered him with a tarp as a fellow pastor prayed over him while waiting for the medical examiner to arrive. According to Piper, he went straight to Heaven and experienced things he describes as amazing and beautiful, including meeting family members such as his great-grandmother and joining a Heavenly Choir that proceeded into the Gates of Heaven. Piper, an ordained minister since 1985, has recounted his narrative before 3,000 live audiences that included more than 1.5 million people altogether. and appeared on numerous television and radio programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3974146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3974146", "title": "Abu Bakr Ibn Al-Qutia", "text": "Abu Bakr Ibn Al-Qutia\n\nAbu Bakr Ibn Al-Qutia (died 997) was a historian and author born in Córdoba, Spain. His mother was a Goth of royal lineage. His important historical account of Spain up to the Caliph of Cordoba Abd-ar-Rahman III (912–961) has been edited by Pascual de Gayangos, and published with the translation of Julián Ribera y Tarragó as \"Historia de la conquista de España\" (1926).\n"}
{"id": "26125517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26125517", "title": "Abubakar Garbai of Borno", "text": "Abubakar Garbai of Borno\n\nBukar Garbai (or Abubakar Garbai) ibn Ibrahim was the Shehu of Borno from 1902 to 1922.\n\nBukar Garbai (or Abubakar Garbai) ibn Ibrahim was the Shehu of Bornu from 1902–1922 and previous to that served as Shehu of Dikwa. In 1907 he founded Yerwa as the headquarters of his domains in connection with the British founding a military post in the same general location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30430289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30430289", "title": "Aglaé de Polignac", "text": "Aglaé de Polignac\n\nAglaé Louise Françoise Gabrielle de Polignac (7 May 1768 – 30 March 1803) was the daughter of Gabrielle de Polastron, the favourite and confidante of Marie Antoinette, and her husband, the 1st \"duc de Polignac\".\n\nHer paternal grandparents were Marquis Louis Héracle Melchior de Polignac (1717–1792) and his wife, Diane Marie Adelaide Zephirine Mazzarini-Mancini (1726–1755). Her maternal grandparents were Jean François Gabriel, \"comte de Polastron\", and his wife, Jeanne Charlotte Hérault.\n\nAglaé Louise was born at the Château de Versailles in Paris, France, the eldest child and only daughter of the Duke and Duchess of Polignac. She had three brothers: Armand Jules Marie Héracle, duc de Polignac (11 January 1771 – 1 March 1847); Jules Auguste Armand Marie, prince de Polignac (14 May 1780 – 30 March 1847); and Camille Henri Melchior, comte de Polignac (27 December 1781 – 2 February 1855).\n\nAt the Château de Versailles, on 11 July 1780, at the age of twelve, Aglaé married the \"duc de Gramont et Guiche\". She then became the Duchess of Guiche and was nicknamed \"Guichette\" by her family. Her son Antoine-Geneviève-Héraclius-Agénor de Gramont became the 9th Duke of Gramont. Her daughter Corisande Armandine Léonie Sophie de Gramont married Charles Bennet, 5th Earl of Tankerville, and another daughter, Aglaé Angélique Gabrielle de Gramont, was married in turn to Russian general Alexander Lvovich Davydov and French diplomat Horace Sébastiani.\n\nIn 1794, according to \"The Memoirs of Madame Vigée Lebrun\", Marie-Élisabeth-Louise Vigée-Le Brun painted a half-length portrait of the Duchess de Guiche wearing a blue turban, in Directoire style. She wrote: \"…I encountered the Duchesse de Guiche, whose lovely face had not changed in the least.\"\n\nOn 30 March 1803, Aglaé de Polignac died in an accidental house fire at her home in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "52139667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52139667", "title": "Ahmed Abd Ellatif", "text": "Ahmed Abd Ellatif\n\nAir Vice-Marshal Ahmed Abd Ellatif () of Alexandria, Egypt served as the Chairman of the Arab Scout Committee.\n\nIn 2009, he was awarded the 319th \"Bronze Wolf\", the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting.\n\nHe is married.\n"}
{"id": "2303238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303238", "title": "Anton Arcane", "text": "Anton Arcane\n\nAnton Arcane is a DC Comics villain who first appeared in \"Swamp Thing\" #2 (January 1973), and was created by writer Len Wein and artist Bernie Wrightson.\n\nArcane is a scientist whose obsession with gaining immortality has led him to create monstrous creatures known as \"Un-Men\", as well as other monstrous biogenetic experimentations involving the dead. He was able to resurrect his deceased brother Gregori as the Patchwork Man. He is also a skilled magician, which he is able to channel through his horrific experiments.\n\nLiving in the mountains of Europe with his niece Abigail, Arcane is introduced after luring the plant based hero to his castle home. Arcane sought to use his scientific and magic abilities to transform his body into Swamp Thing's form, while changing Swamp Thing back into Alec Holland. At first very grateful to be human again, Alec soon overheard Arcane discussing his evil intentions now that he could carry them out. Alec then succeeds in breaking the spell Arcane cast, and sacrifices his humanity, so Arcane becomes a frail old man again. Pursued by Swamp Thing, Arcane fell to his death, only to be resurrected by his Un-Men in a new body. He then attacked Swamp Thing twice more before truly dying, the first time as a hulking corpse-like Un-Man (only to be destroyed by vengeful ghosts of African-American slaves who had possessed his Un-Men) and later as an insect-like cyborg piloting a massive dragonfly-like vehicle that is actually a tesseract (i.e., its interior is larger than its exterior). It is after his third death that his soul was consigned to Hell.\n\nArcane's soul later escaped from Hell and ultimately helped to summon the demon Monkey King into the world.\n\nAfter a fight with Abigail that culminated in her leaving on foot to find Swamp Thing, Matt Cable (Abigail's husband) had an attack of conscience and drove after her. He had been drinking heavily and wound up crashing his car, leaving him mortally wounded. Ultimately Arcane managed to possess Cable's body, and with it gained access to Cable's godlike power.\n\nIn his body, he masquerades as Cable, claiming a new job called Blackriver Recorporations and buying a mansion for them to live. Arcane combined his own magic with Cable's inherent psychic powers to alter reality and the employees of Recorporations were the resurrected souls of deceased serial killers returned from Hell. He finally revealed himself, tormenting his niece and causing havoc and insanity by altering reality on a massive scale. For miles around natural and unnatural disasters occurred, people succumb to homicidal instincts and the resurrected serial killers returned to killing.\n\nHe once again battled Swamp Thing, accompanied by monstrous forms resembling Un-Men, after killing Abigail and condemning her soul to Hell, all the while declaring the earth as his now.\n\nIt was during this battle that Arcane found that the Swamp Thing was a plant elemental and thus possessed semi-magical abilities, allowing the Swamp Thing to combat him on a more even ground. The battle was enough for Matthew Cable to regain control of his body, and Arcane was exorcised directly back to Hell. Cable uses his awakened power to resurrect Abigail's body, but not having sufficient power to repair himself, becomes comatose and finally dies, whereupon he becomes Matthew, a raven living within The Dreaming.\n\nArcane next appears as a demon, having been promoted to this status by the Lords of Hell. He attacks Swamp Thing yet again, only to be defeated. In a later episode, Arcane temporarily repents of his evil ways after having briefly found God, who eventually banishes him back to Hell. Arcane is tortured by the demon Josephine, whom he seduces into helping him escape. Swamp Thing defeats the two demons, causing their forms to morph together, and when last seen, it is revealed that the Arcane/Josephine being is pregnant.\n\nIn the wake of The New 52 (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), Anton Arcane is a regular antagonist in the monthly Swamp Thing comics. After Abigail was able to fight off the mental control of Sethe, Sethe revives Anton Arcane from the dead. as the avatar of The Black (aka The Rot), after which he tries to take over The Red (colliding with Animal Man as well) and The Green. Anton also has a son named William Arcane and Abigail is his daughter in this timeline.\n\nDuring Animal Man and Swamp Thing's one year in The Rot, Anton Arcane and the forces of The Rot were able to take over parts of Earth. It was mentioned by Frankenstein that Anton Arcane had imprisoned someone beneath Metropolis. When the forces of The Red and the forces of The Green converge outside of Anton Arcane's castle, Anton Arcane unleashes corrupted versions of Maxine Baker and Abigail Arcane. Anton Arcane and The Rot's conquest of Earth is thwarted and undone when Maxine breaks the hold of the remaining Hunter's Three on her.\nAfter being defeated by Swamp Thing, Arcane is put in a Hell specifically made for him by the Parliament of Decay when nothing ever rots and all is forever pure. Abigail as the new avatar of the Rot comes to him demanding information about her mother. Arcane reveals that when she was a baby she already had power over the Rot and she accidentally killed her by 'filling' her with the Rot. To make him talk Abigail lets him feel rot but she now says he will never escape his Hell and will never touch rot again. Arcane says that when he touched it when she gave it to him he became stronger than he been in ages and he will escape and take revenge on both her and Alec Holland. As she teleports away Arcane rips out one of his eyes and throws it in the portal. On earth a boy is about to eat an apple when it turns rotten. He throws it away and Arcane's eye appears in it.\n\nIn \"Swamp Thing\" #36, vol 5, when Swamp Thing goes in the Rot to warn Abigail about the new realm of machines she initially assumes he is there because of Arcane who has escaped. It is eventually shown that he has returned to Earth, but since he is not the Avatar of Rot, he can only gain strength from consuming rotten items, like corpses and garbage, and as such is terribly weakened. He joins forces with the new realm of Metal, who promises him the power he lost, and his power does grow greatly in this time. He later poisons the Green from within, when Swamp Thing is weakened in an attempt to destroy it, but this fails when all the Avatars of Green are awakened and use their power to cleanse the green to its original state. Abigail challenges Arcane in the final war against Metal, and while she has the upper hand, Arcane eventually escapes. \n\nIn , it is revealed that five years in the future, a series of events conspired to ensure that all Avatars swore to stay off of Earth and within their own realms to prevent chaos. Arcane only agreed to this, if he was allowed to bind himself to Abigail forever, as seen when his left hand and her right are completely fused in a twisted embrace and when he calls her his \"daughter-wife\". In doing so, he allowed himself to leech off her power, as the true Avatar of Rot, and ensuring that Swamp Thing could not fight him, without risking harm or death to the one he loved. However, Swamp Thing has made the decision to destroy the Rot, using the power of a Life through a White-Lantern Ring. Arcane attempts to dissuade him, by citing the necessity of death and rot, but Swamp Thing counters it by saying that Fungi/The Grey and Bacteria/The Divided have already decided to take over the role of rot, while Metal will keep them in check. Arcane then tries to give up Abigail, but Swamp Thing believes that there is enough life in her to let her survive and in worst case, death is better than the hell she lives in. Arcane briefly tries to fight back, but Abigail makes her move to distract him, long enough for Swamp Thing to activate the White-Lantern ring and bringing about the death of Anton Arcane.\n\nAnton Arcane possesses genius-level intellect. He possess the knowledge of creation of synthetic organs and skin through which he made his Un-Men. He initially wanted to create a body and transfer his consciousness into it so he could make himself immortal within a tireless form instead of in his normal aged, worn body. He also possessed many arcane artifacts. He possesses necromancy which enables him to control the dead.\nIn the New 52, Arcane was brought in as the avatar of the Rot just as Alec Holland is avatar of the Green. As the avatar he could manipulate rot, death and decay to his will. His main objective was to simply help the spread of rot but he caused a wave of carnage as he thought that killing was the best sacrifice for the Rot. He then found a way of allowing rot in a living being, causing decay before death. When Swamp Thing and Animal Man are trapped within the Rot Arcane uses this 'living' rot on everyone except those who have a strong enough connection to the Red (animals) or the Green (plants), such as Poison Ivy or Man-Bat. There are ways to prevent the living rot, such as using the Man-Bat serum, but only if used before being completely controlled by it. These rot zombies can be weakened or even killed with Alec Holland's bio-restorative formula. Arcane's Un-Men were normal people who gave themselves to the Rot.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19339048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19339048", "title": "Arne Zetterström", "text": "Arne Zetterström\n\nArne Zetterström (1917 – 7 August 1945) is best known for his research with the breathing mixture hydrox for the Swedish Navy.\n\nZetterström first described the use of hydrogen as a breathing gas in 1943. From 1943 to 1944, a total of six ocean dives were made utilising this mixture with the deepest to 160 metres (96% hydrogen and 4% oxygen).\n\nOn 7 August 1945 Zetterström experienced technical problems diving from HSwMS Belos. His support divers misread his signals and this was followed by a rapid ascent that resulted in severe decompression sickness and hypoxia.\n\n"}
{"id": "24144363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24144363", "title": "Arthur Scott Burden", "text": "Arthur Scott Burden\n\nArthur Scott Burden (August 11, 1879 – June 15, 1921) was an American banker, equestrian, and member of the young set of New York society during the Gilded Age.\n\nBurden was born on August 11, 1879 in Troy, New York. He was the youngest of four sons born to James Abercrombie Burden Sr. (1833–1906) and Mary Margaret Proudfit (née Irvin) Burden (1837–1920). His siblings included James A. Burden II, who married Florence Adele Sloane (daughter of Emily Thorn Vanderbilt); Richard Irvin Burden; and William Proudfit Burden, who married Natica Belmont (daughter of Oliver Belmont).\n\nBurden was the grandson of Scottish born entrepreneur Henry Burden, who founded Burden Iron Works of Troy, of which his brother James later served as the president of beginning in 1906. Among his relatives was uncle William Fletcher Burden, uncle-in-law Gen. Irvin McDowell, and uncle I. Townsend Burden, who was prominent in New York society and was a member of the infamous 400 of New York Society, as dictated by Mrs. Astor and Ward McAllister and published in \"The New York Times\" on February 16, 1892.\n\nBurden graduated from Harvard University with a S.B. in 1903.\n\nFollowing his graduation from Harvard, Burden was connected with the Iron Works which his father and grandfather had been president of. He later purchased a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and became a banker, working until his fall from during a hunting trip in England and then from a horse while playing polo at his estate in Jericho on Long Island, in 1913.\n\nAlong with his wife Cynthia, brother William, sister-in-law Natica, and close friends Reginald Vanderbilt and Alfred Vanderbilt, he was part of a notable group of the younger set in society, both in New York City and Newport, Rhode Island. His wife and sister-in-law were very close friends and \"were girls of exceptional charm and vivacity and few rivals for popularity at the dances and other entertainments of those days.\"\n\nSadly, besides Arthur, many members of the group died early deaths, including sister-in-law Natica Rives Belmont (adopted daughter of George L. Rives and stepdaughter of Alva Vanderbilt Belmont) who died in 1908 of asphyxiation a few months after her marriage to William, Alfred, who died aboard the in 1915, and Reginald (father of Gloria Vanderbilt), who died from cirrhosis due to alcoholism in 1925.\n\nOn June 11, 1906, he was married to the Hon. Cynthia Burke Roche (1884–1966), the daughter of James Roche, 3rd Baron Fermoy, an Irish peer who was a Member of Parliament in the House of Commons, and Frances Ellen née Work, an American heiress and socialite. Among her siblings was brother Maurice Roche, 4th Baron Fermoy, the maternal grandfather of Diana, Princess of Wales. Together, they were the parents of a daughter:\n\n\nIn late 1913, Burden fell twice from his horse and sustained injuries that caused him to be placed under constant care. As a result, in May 1921, his brother James filed a petition while his sister-in-law, Cynthia Roche's, was away in London, requesting that he be declared incompetent. Later that month, a sheriff's jury found Burden to be \"incompetent to care for his person and property.\" Arthur, however, died shortly thereafter, at a branch of the New York Hospital in White Plains, New York, from pneumonia on June 15, 1921. He left his entire estate to his widow. Coincidentally, ten years later in 1931, his brother James was also injured in a fall, and died the following year of an embolism as a consequence of the fall.\n\nA year after his death, his widow Cynthia was remarried to Guy Fairfax Cary Sr. and became the mother of two more children, Guy Fairfax Cary II and Cynthia Cary, who married Charles Bingham Penrose Van Pelt, and later, the newspaper publisher Edwin Fairman Russell. Russell was previously married to Lady Sarah Consuelo Spencer-Churchill, daughter of John Spencer-Churchill, 10th Duke of Marlborough.\n\nThrough his daughter Eileen, he was the grandfather of Sheila Maynard, a clinical social worker who worked in Islamabad, who married Nicholas Platt (b. 1936), a career diplomat who served as U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan, Zambia and the Philippines. They are the parents of \"New York Magazine\" restaurant critic Adam Platt, actor Oliver Platt (b. 1960), and Nicholas Platt, Jr.\n\nSpinzia, Raymond E. and Judith A. \"Long Island's Prominent North Shore Families: Their Estates and Their Country Homes. vol I. College Station,\" TX\nVirtualBookworm, 2006."}
{"id": "34822417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34822417", "title": "Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych", "text": "Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych\n\nThe Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych (or Diptych with Calvary and Last Judgement) consists of two small painted panels attributed to the Early Netherlandish artist Jan van Eyck, with areas finished by unidentified followers or members of his workshop. This diptych is one of the early Northern Renaissance oil on panel masterpieces, renowned for its unusually complex and highly detailed iconography, and for the technical skill evident in its completion. It was executed in a miniature format; the panels are just high by wide. The diptych was probably commissioned for private devotion.\n\nThe left-hand wing depicts the Crucifixion. It shows Christ's followers grieving in the foreground, soldiers and spectators milling about in the mid-ground and a portrayal of three crucified bodies in the upper-ground. The scene is framed against an azure sky with a view of Jerusalem in the distance. The right-hand wing portrays scenes associated with the Last Judgement: a hellscape at its base, the resurrected awaiting judgement in the centre-ground, and a representation of Christ in Majesty flanked by a Great Deësis of saints, apostles, clergy, virgins and nobility in the upper section. Portions of the work contain Greek, Latin and Hebrew inscriptions. The original gilt frames contain Biblical passages in Latin drawn from the books of Isaiah, Deuteronomy and Revelation. According to a date written in Russian on their reverse, the panels were transferred to canvas supports in 1867.\n\nThe earliest surviving mention of the work appears in 1841, when scholars believed the two panels were wings of a lost triptych. The Metropolitan Museum of Art acquired the diptych in 1933. At that time, the work was attributed to Jan's brother Hubert because key areas formally resembled pages of the \"Turin-Milan Hours\", which were then believed to be of Hubert's hand. On the evidence of technique and the style of dress of the figures, the majority of scholars believe the panels are late works by Jan van Eyck, executed in the early 1430s and finished after his death. Other art historians hold that van Eyck painted the panels around the early 1420s and attribute the weaker passages to a younger van Eyck's relative inexperience.\n\nAlong with Robert Campin and later Rogier van der Weyden, Van Eyck revolutionised the approach towards naturalism and realism in Northern European painting during the early to mid 15th century. He was the first to manipulate oils to give the close detailing that infused his figures with the high degree of realism and complexity of emotion seen in this diptych. He coupled this with a mastery of glaze to create luminous surfaces with a deep perspective—most noticeable in the upper portion of the \"Crucifixion\" panel—which had not been achieved before.\n\nIn the 1420s and 1430s, when oil and panel painting were still in their infancy, vertical formats were often used for depictions of the Last Judgement, because the narrow framing particularly suited a hierarchical presentation of heaven, earth and hell. By contrast, depictions of the Crucifixion were usually presented in a horizontal format. To fit such expansive and highly detailed representations onto two equally small and narrow wings, van Eyck was forced to make a number of innovations, redesigning many elements of the \"Crucifixion\" panel to match the vertical and condensed presentation of the Judgement narrative. The result is a panel with the crosses rising high into the sky, an unusually packed crowd scene in the mid-ground, and the moving spectacle of the mourners in the foreground, all rendered in a continuous slope from bottom to top in the style of medieval tapestries. Art historian Otto Pächt says it \"is the whole world in one painting, an Orbis Pictus\".\n\nIn the \"Crucifixion\" panel, van Eyck follows the early 14th-century tradition of presenting the biblical episodes using a narrative technique. According to art historian Jeffrey Chipps Smith, the episodes appear as \"simultaneous, not sequential\" events. Van Eyck condenses key episodes from the gospels into a single composition, each placed so as to draw the viewer's eye upward in a logical sequence. This device allowed van Eyck to create a greater illusion of depth with more complex and unusual spatial arrangements. In the \"Crucifixion\" panel, he uses different indicators to show the relative closeness of particular groupings of figures to Jesus. Given the size of the mourners in the foreground relative to the crucified figures, the soldiers and spectators gathered in the mid-ground are far larger than a strict adherence to perspective would allow. In the \"Last Judgement\" the damned are placed in hell in the lower mid-ground while the saints and angels are positioned higher in the upper foreground. Pächt writes of this panel that the scene is \"assimilated into a single spatial cosmos\", with the archangel acting as a divider in the pictorial space between heaven and hell.\n\nArt historians are unsure as to whether the panels were meant to be a diptych or a triptych. They may have formed the outer wings of a triptych, with a since-lost panel representing the Adoration of the Magi at the centre, or, as the German art historian J.D. Passavant speculated in 1841, the lost centre panel may have been a Nativity. It is now thought unlikely that a lost panel could be the postulated original companion to the outer wings; such a coupling would have been very odd to painters of the 1420s and 1430s. It has also been proposed that a central piece was added later, or as Albert Châtelet writes, the central panel may have been stolen. Art historian Erwin Panofsky believed the \"Crucifixion\" and \"Last Judgement\" panels were intended as a diptych. He argued that it would have been unusual for mere outer wings to have been given the \"sumptuous treatment\" afforded these two panels. This approach is reminiscent of the medieval reliquaries. Others have observed that triptychs were usually much larger works intended for public display, and they tended towards gilded and heavily inscribed frames; typically only the central panel would have been as lavishly decorated as these panels. Contemporary diptychs, in contrast, were usually produced for private devotion and were typically ungilded. There is no documentary evidence for an original central panel, however, and technical examination suggests the two works were intended as wings of a diptych, then an emerging format. Pächt believes there is not enough evidence to determine whether a third panel existed.\n\nThe \"Crucifixion\" panel comprises three horizontal planes, each representing different moments from the Passion. The upper third shows the crucifixion before a view of Jerusalem; the lower two thirds detail the crowds and Jesus' followers at Golgotha (\"Place of the Skull\"). Located outside the city walls amongst rock tombs and gardens, in the first century Golgotha was Jerusalem's place of execution, and the visible patches of hill highlight the area's \"stony, forbidding, and lifeless\" nature. The atmosphere of bleakness is reinforced by the random figures in the upper ground that scramble for a better view. The gospels tell of Jesus' followers and relatives, as well as his prosecutors and assorted spectators, attending the crucifixion at Golgotha. In van Eyck's panel the former are represented in the foreground, while the latter, including High Priests and Temple Elders, are shown in the mid-ground.\nThe centre foreground shows a group of five mourners, with three other figures set to the right and left. In the center group, John the Evangelist supports the Virgin Mary, surrounded by three women. Mary's dramatic swoon in grief pushes her forward in the pictorial space, and according to Smith, places her \"closest to the viewer's presumed position\". Dressed in an enveloping blue robe that hides most of her face, she collapses and is caught by John, who supports her by her arms. Mary Magdalene kneels to the right, dressed in a white-trimmed green robe and red sleeves. Raising her arms aloft, she clenches her fingers in a distraught, agonised manner. She is the only figure from this group shown to look directly at Christ and serves as one of the key painterly devices to direct the viewer's gaze upwards towards the crosses. The fourth and fifth mourners have been identified as prophesying sibyls, and stand to the far left and right of the centre group. The sibyl to the left faces the cross with her back to the viewer while the turbaned mourner on the right faces the group and is either the Erythraean or the Cumaean sibyl, both of whom are attributed in Christian tradition with warning the occupying Romans of the cult of redemption that would develop around Christ's death and resurrection. She has an almost indifferent expression that has been interpreted both as satisfaction at seeing her prophesies realised, and as compassionate contemplation of the other women's grief.\n\nThe mid-ground shows a crowd scene above the group of mourners, separated by two soldiers who stand between the two groupings. The mourners from the foreground are reflected in the shield carried on the hip of the lance-bearing Roman soldier who leans on the man to his right wearing a red turban. Smith believes this serves to highlight the mourners' emotional and physical separation from the assorted figures gathered in the mid-ground. Art historian Adam Labuda sees these two figures, positioned full-length between the chief mourners and mid-ground spectators, as a pictorial device that along with the Magdalene's upward gaze draws viewers' eyes upwards through the panel's dramatic sequence.\nVan Eyck's depiction lays particular emphasis on the brutishness and indifference of the crowd witnessing Christ's suffering. They comprise a mixture of Roman legionaries, judges and various hangers-on arriving to witness the spectacle. A number are dressed in rich, brightly coloured clothes, a mixture of oriental and northern European styles, while several are mounted on horseback. Some openly jeer and taunt the condemned, others gape stupefied at \"just another\" execution, while others talk amongst themselves. The exception is the armoured centurion, seated on a white horse at the extreme right edge of the panel, who looks up at Christ, arms spread wide, head thrown back, at \"the very moment of his illumination\" in recognition of Christ's divinity. The horsemen closely resemble both the \"\" and \"\" from the lower inner panels of van Eyck's c. 1432 \"Ghent Altarpiece\". Art historian Till-Holger Borchert observes that these figures are given \"greater dynamism by being seen in rear rather than profile view\", and that this vantage point draws the observer's eye upwards towards the mid-ground and the crucifixion.\n\nVan Eyck extends the height of the crosses to an unrealistic degree to allow the crucifixion to dominate the upper third of the panel. Christ faces the viewer directly, while the crosses of the two thieves are set at angles to either side. The thieves are each bound with cords of rope rather than nails. The body of the thief to the right—the repentant thief mentioned in the Gospel of Luke—is lifeless. The \"bad\" thief to his left is dying twisted in pain, and according to art historian James W.H. Weale, depicted as \"struggling desperately, but in vain\". Both men's hands have turned black from a lack of blood flow. A placard prepared by Pilate or Roman soldiers placed above Jesus' head reads \"Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews\" in Hebrew, Latin and Greek.\nThe panel captures the instant of Christ's death, traditionally the moment after the breaking of the thieves' legs (although this is not depicted). Christ is naked except for a transparent veil, with some of his pubic hair visible. His hands and feet are nailed to the timber; the blood from the nail holding his feet to the cross stains its wooden base. His arms strain under the weight of his upper body, and in his final agony, his jaw has fallen slack; his mouth is open with his teeth exposed in the grimace of death. In the mid-ground, at the base of the cross, Longinus, on horseback, wearing a fur-trimmed hat and green tunic, guided by an assistant, stretches to pierce Jesus' side with a lance, as deep-red blood pours from the wound. To the right of Longinus, a mostly obscured Stephaton holds high a sponge soaked with vinegar on the tip of a reed.\n\nThe first generation of Early Netherlandish painters did not usually pay much attention to landscape backgrounds. They were often included, showing strong influence from the Italian painters, but typically as minor elements of the composition, seen in the far distance and lacking any real observation of nature. This diptych, however, contains one of the most memorable landscape backgrounds in Northern 15th-century art. The panoramic view of Jerusalem extends upwards in the distance to the mountainous peaked range in the background. The sky, which continues to the upper part of the right hand panel, is rendered in deep blues and lined with cumulus clouds. These clouds are similar to those in the \"Ghent Altarpiece\" and, as in that work, are included to give depth to and enliven the background skyscape. The sky seems to have just darkened, in keeping with the idea that the panel captures the moment of Jesus' death. Faint cirrus clouds can be seen in the far high-ground, with the presence of the sun is suggested by a shadow falling on the top left area of the panel.\n\nThe right hand wing, as with the \"Crucifixion\" wing, is divided horizontally into three areas. Here they represent, from top to bottom heaven, earth and hell. Heaven contains a traditional Great Deësis with clergy and laity; earth, in the mid-ground, is dominated by the figures of Archangel Michael and a personification of Death; while in the lower ground the damned fall into hell, where they are tortured and eaten by beasts. Describing the hell passage, art historian Bryson Burroughs writes that \"the diabolical inventions of Bosch and Brueghel are children's boggy lands compared to the horrors of the hell [van Eyck] has imagined.\"\nPächt compares the scene to a medieval bestiary, comprising a \"whole fauna of zoomorphic fiends\". Van Eyck's hell is inhabited by demonic monsters whose only visible features are often \"their glittering eyes and the white of their fangs\". The sinners fall head first into their torment, at the mercy of devils taking recognisable forms such as rats, snakes and pigs, as well as a bear and a donkey. Daringly, van Eyck shows kings and members of the clergy among those condemned to hell.\n\nThe earth is represented by the narrow area between heaven and hell. The passage shows the resurrection of the dead as the fires of the last day rage. The dead rise from their graves to the left and from the stormy sea to the right. The Archangel Michael stands on death's shoulders, the largest figure in the painting, whose body and wings span the entire pictorial space. Michael wears jewel-studded golden armour and has curly blond hair and multicoloured wings similar to those seen in the donor panel of van Eyck's 1437 Dresden \"Triptych of the Virgin and Child\". Michael appears, according to Smith, \"like a giant on the earth, whose crust is revealed to be the wings of the skeletal figure of Death. The damned are excreted though Death's bowels into the dark slime of hell.\" The bat-like death figure, with skull extruding up to earth and skeletal arms and legs reaching down into hell, is the protagonist of the narrative according to Pächt, but death is vanquished by the slim and youthful looking archangel standing between the horrors of hell and the promise of heaven.\nThe upper portion of the panel shows the second coming as recorded in Matthew 25:31: \"But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory.\" Christ, who was naked, frail and almost lifeless in the \"Crucifixion\" panel, is now resurrected and triumphant in heaven. He is dressed in a long red mantle and is barefoot. His hands and feet are surrounded by circles of yellow light. The Holy Wounds are visible on his\npalms held open; the puncture mark left by Longinus' spear is visible on his side through the opening in his robe, as are the nail holes on his feet.\n\nChrist is seated at the centre of a large array of angels, saints and holy elders. According to Pächt, in this scene in heaven that \"all is sweetness, gentleness and order.\" Mary and John the Baptist kneel in prayer to his immediate right and left. Both have halos and are rendered at a far larger scale than the surrounding figures, over whom they seem to tower. Mary holds her right hand at her breast, while her left is raised as if to ask for mercy for the smaller naked figures sheltered by her cloak, evoking the conventional pose of the Virgin of Mercy. A choir of virgins gather directly under Christ's feet. They face outwards towards the viewer and sing Christ's praise.\n\nHeaded by Saint Peter, the Apostles are dressed in white robes and sit on two facing benches set below Christ and to the right and left of the choir of virgins. Two angels attend to the groups gathered at each side of the benches. A further two angels are positioned immediately above Christ. They hold his cross and are dressed in white amice and albs, with the right hand angel wearing an outer blue dalmatic vestment. They are flanked on either side by angels playing long wind instruments, probably trumpets. The two angels on either side of Christ bear the symbols of the crucifixion already represented on the left hand panel. The angel on the left holds a lance and crown of thorns, the angel on the right a sponge and nails.\n\nVan Eyck was a central influence on Petrus Christus and the younger painter is thought to have studied the panels while they were still in van Eyck's workshop. He made a much larger and adapted paraphrase of the panel in 1452, as part of a monumental altarpiece, now in Berlin. Although there are significant differences between the two works, the influence of van Eyck on Christus' work is most evident in the vertical, narrow format and in the central figure of Saint Michael, who also divides the scene between heaven and hell.\nArt historian John Ward highlights the rich and complex iconography and symbolic meaning van Eyck employed to bring attention to what he saw as the co-existence of the spiritual and material worlds. In his paintings, iconographical features are typically subtly woven into the work, as \"relatively small, in the background, or in the shadow [details]\". The significance of the imagery is often so densely and intricately layered that a work has to be viewed multiple times before even the most obvious meanings become apparent. According to Ward, the iconographical elements are commonly positioned \"initially to overlook, and eventually to discover\". Writing about the \"Last Judgement\" panel, Burroughs notes that \"each of its several scenes requires attention for itself alone.\" According to Ward, van Eyck forces the viewer to search for the meaning in the iconography, creating a multi-layered surface which rewards the attentive viewer with deeper understanding of both the painting and its symbols. Much of van Eyck's iconography intends to convey the idea of \"the promised passage from sin and death to salvation and rebirth\".\n\nBoth the frames and pictorial areas of the diptych are heavily inscribed with lettering and phrases in Latin, Greek and Hebrew. Van Eyck's early works display a predilection for inscriptions, which serve a dual purpose. They are decorative while also functioning in a manner similar to the commentaries often seen on the margins of medieval manuscripts which set in context the significance of the accompanying imagery. Diptychs were usually commissioned for private devotion, and van Eyck would have expected the viewer to contemplate text and imagery in unison.\n\nIn this work, the inscriptions are in Roman capitals or Gothic miniature, and in some places seem to contain misspellings, making interpretation difficult. Its gold-lined frame and Latin inscriptions, with their subtle references to various passages in the two panels, indicate that the donor was wealthy and educated. The sides of each frame are lined with inscriptions from the Book of Isaiah (:6–9, 12), Revelations (:13, 21:3–4) or the Book of Deuteronomy (:23–24). In the right hand panel, the wings of the figure of death contain Latin inscriptions on either side; on the left are the words (\"great chaos\"), with (\"shadow of death\") inscribed to the right. A warning from Matthew 25:41 is written on both sides of death's head and wings, and extends from earth down into the hell section. It reads, \"Ite vos maledicti in ignem eternam\" (\"Go, ye cursed, into everlasting fire\"). In this way, van Eyck dramatically aligns the biblical extract in diagonal dual beams of light seemingly hurled from the heavens. Also in the section are letters reading \n\nIn the mid-ground, the Archangel Michael's armour is heavily inscribed with esoteric and often difficult to source phrases. Letters on his breast plate read while his jewel-encrusted oval buckler displays the cross and is decorated with Greek script reading . The meaning of this phrase has not been conclusively identified; some art historians believe it contains misspellings and has been misread. Friedländer transcribed the first word as while the final word is thought be taken from the first four letters of the Hebrew words for \"Thou Art Mighty\", and thus may signify God; the word also appears in a floor tile in the \"Ghent Altarpiece\". In the upper portion, gilded inscriptions running vertically across the edges of Christ's mantle read (\"Come, ye blessed of my father\").\n\nOver the years the panels have been attributed to both Jan and Hubert van Eyck as well as Petrus Christus. In 1841, Passavant attributed the diptych jointly to Hubert and Jan van Eyck; by 1853, he had revised his opinion and gave attribution exclusively to Jan. Gustav Waagen, the first director of the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin, attributed them to Petrus Christus in the mid 19th-century, based on the left hand panel's similarity in composition to a 1452 \"Last Judgement\" signed by Christus now in Berlin. This view was rejected in 1887, and they once more became associated with Jan. The panels came into the possession of the Hermitage Gallery in 1917, credited to Jan.\nBryson Burroughs, writing for the Metropolitan at the time of their acquisition in 1933, attributed the works to Hubert. Burroughs saw in the panels the hand of an expressive artist, \"all nerves and sensibilities\", overcome with sympathy for the plight of the central figures in the panels, but who was nonetheless weak in drawing line. This profile, he believed, was incompatible with the aloof and impassive master craftsman Jan is known to have been. Yet Burroughs acknowledged there was \"no certain documented proof for the attribution [to Hubert].\" He admitted his evidence was \"limited, inevitably incomplete\", and thus \"circumstantial and presumptive\". More recent scholarship tends to agree Jan painted the panels based on the evidence that they are stylistically closer to Jan than Hubert, who died in 1426; and that Jan, who travelled across the Alps to Italy that year, painted the mountain range.\n\nThe paintings have often been compared to the seven pages of the \"Turin-Milan Hours\" illuminated manuscript attributed to the unidentified artist \"Hand G\", generally thought to have been Jan van Eyck. The closeness is seen to lie both in the miniaturist technique and the particular painterly style. The similarity of a Turin drawing of the crucified Christ to the figure in the New York diptych has led some art historians to conclude they were, at least, painted near the same time, during the 1420s and early 1430s. Most believe both the drawing and diptych panel at least originated from a prototype designed by Jan van Eyck. Panofsky attributed the New York panels to \"Hand G\". When the \"Turin-Milan Hours\" miniatures were discovered they were at first believed to have been painted before the Duke of Berry's death in 1416, an idea that was quickly rejected with the date extended to sometime in the early 1430s.\n\nPächt writes of the diptych that it reflects the \"personal style and unique scenic imagination\" of \"Hand G\" (whom he believed to be either Hubert or Jan). Until Hans Belting and Dagmar Eichberger's 1983 \"Jan van Eyck als Erzähler\", academics tended to focus exclusively on the diptych's dating and attribution, with little attention paid to its source influences and iconography. Borchert estimates a completion of c. 1440, while Paul Durrieu suggests a dating as early as 1413. In 1983, Belting and Eichberger suggested a date of c. 1430 based on specific characteristics of the work: the \"birds-eye view\" perspective and horizon, the densely packed figures and, especially, a pictorial narrative that moves logically across the areas of the image in the \"Crucifixion\" panel. Belting and Eichberger believe this style was employed during the early panel works, but was largely abandoned by the 1430s.\n\nThe 1430s dating is supported by the style of the underdrawing, which is consistent with known signed works by van Eyck from that time. In addition, the figures are dressed in clothes fashionable in the 1420s with the exception of one of the possible donors, tentatively identified as Margaret of Bavaria, who is depicted as the sybil standing in the right foreground of the crucifixion panel and wears clothes in style in the early 1430s.\n\nThe upper portions of the \"Last Judgement\" panel are generally considered as the work of a weaker painter with a less individual style. It is thought that van Eyck left the panels unfinished with completed underdrawings, and the area was finished by workshop members or by followers after he died. Maryan Ainsworth of the Metropolitan takes a different view. She highlights the close relationship known to have existed between contemporary workshops in the Low Countries and France, and speculates that a French miniaturist or illuminator, perhaps from the workshop of the Bedford Master, travelled to Bruges to assist van Eyck on the right hand panel.\n\nNothing is known of the work's provenance before the 1840s. Given the panels' diminutive size—which is typical of early diptychs—it seems probable that the work was commissioned for private rather than public devotion. The notion of a well-educated patron, with knowledge of and appreciation for the art of earlier centuries, is reinforced by both the classical language inscriptions and the abundant detail found across all areas of the panels.\n\nWriting in 1841 in the journal \"Kunstblatt\", Passavant gave an account of how the panels were bought at auction from either a Spanish monastery or convent. The Russian diplomat Dmitry Tatishchev acquired the panels, possibly from a Spanish convent or monastery near Madrid or Burgos, while living in Spain between 1814 and 1821. Tatishchev left his pictures to Tsar Nicholas I in 1845, and they came into the possession of the Hermitage Gallery in Saint Petersburg in 1917.\n\nThe panels were included in the Soviet sale of Hermitage paintings, which included another important van Eyck work, the 1434–1436 \"Annunciation\". They were purchased by Charles Henschel of New York art dealer M. Knoedler & Company for $185,000, significantly less than the asking price of $600,000 when the works were offered in 1931. The panels were shipped from Saint Petersburg to the Matthiesen Gallery in Berlin before M. Knoedler & Company sold them on to the Metropolitan in New York that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "16934252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16934252", "title": "Data pack", "text": "Data pack\n\nA data pack (or fact pack) is a pre-made database that can be fed to a software, such as software agents, Internet bots or chatterbots, to teach information and facts, which it can later look up. In other words, a data pack can be used to feed minor updates into a system.\n\nCommon data packs may include abbreviations, acronyms, dictionaries, lexicons and technical data, such as country codes, RFCs, filename extensions, TCP and UDP port numbers, country calling codes, and so on.\n\nData packs may come in formats of CSV and SQL that can easily be parsed or imported into a database management system.\n\nThe database may consist of a key-value pair, like an association list.\n\nData packs are commonly used within the gaming industry to provide minor updates within their games. When a user downloads an update for a game they will be downloading loads of data packs which will contain updates for the game such as minor bug fixes or additional content. An example of a data pack used to update a game can be found on the references.\n\nA data pack DataPack Definition is similar to a data packet it contains loads of information (data) and stores it within a pack where the data can be compressed to reduce its file size. Only certain programs can read a data pack therefore when the data is packed it is vital to know whether the receiving program is able to unpack the data. An example of data packs which are able to effective deliver information can be found on the reference page.\n\nWhen you refer to the word data pack it can come in many forms such as a mobile data pack. A mobile data pack refers to an add-on which can enable you to boost the amount of data which you can use on your mobile phone. The rate at which you use your data can also be monitored, so you know how much data you have left. Mobile data is a service which provides a similar service to Wi-Fi and allows you to connect to the Internet. So the purpose of a data pack is to increase the amount of data that your mobile has access to. An example of a mobile data pack can be found on the references.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33025054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33025054", "title": "Denis Caulfield Brady", "text": "Denis Caulfield Brady\n\nDenis Caulfield Brady (1804 – 30 November 1886) was a Liberal Member of the Parliament of the United Kingdom who represented the constituency of Newry. He was a native of Newry, the son of Thomas Brady and Rose Caulfield, and educated at Trinity College Dublin. He was a reformer, in favour of the emancipation of Catholics and the abolition of tithes, and he was elected through the support of the poor Catholics of Newry. As a result of Brady's victory over Sir Thomas Staples in 1835, the Earl of Kilmorey evicted more than 80 families from his lands for their votes. Brady became Chairman of the Newry Navigation Company and was also a Magistrate and Lord Lieutenant for County Down. He remained a devoted member of the Liberal Party, but toward the end of his life he increasingly supported the Unionist cause. He died in Newry, aged 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "26628404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26628404", "title": "Dennis Laurente", "text": "Dennis Laurente\n\nDennis Laurente (born July 29, 1977 in Palompon, Leyte, Philippines) is a Filipino professional boxer. \n\nDuring his younger days, his family migrated to Agusan del Sur. He continued his studies in Sibagat, Agusan del Sur and later in 1997, they migrated again in Agusan del Norte where he had a stint of work in a factory line making durian candy in Butuan City. Later, Laurente joined his parents in Leyte and did some work in the farm until he went to Manila to live with his uncle. A friend and pro boxer Aljun Corporal brought Laurente to Elorde in 1998.\n\nHe fights under the care of Johnny S. Elorde, President of the Johnny Elorde Management International, and his wife, Liza Elorde, a boxing care manager.\n\nLaurente started as a professional boxer on April 23, 1994, against Alberto Sososco. He won the bout via technical knockout in round 4.\n\nHe won his first title, the Philippines Games & Amusement Board (GAB) lightweight championship, on August 9, 2000, against veteran fighter Francis Velasquez. The bout was held in Manila and ended by unanimous decision, all in favor of Laurente. On May 4, 2001, he took on Thai boxer Prawet Singwancha but suffered his first ever loss by unanimous decision. The fight was for the PABA lightweight title. Despite the loss, Laurente won the vacant OPBF lightweight title against Yosuke Otsuka in his next bout on November 23, 2001. He defended the title a total of 7 times, but fell short to Chicashi Inada on March 5, 2005. After 3 more fights, Laurente moved to the light welterweight division.\n"}
{"id": "5544720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544720", "title": "Doctor Sun", "text": "Doctor Sun\n\nDoctor Sun is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is a cyborg who fed on human blood, and has come into conflict with Blade, Nova and the Fantastic Four.\n\nDoctor Sun first appeared in \"Tomb of Dracula\" #16-17 (January–February 1974), and was created by Marv Wolfman and Gene Colan.\n\nThe character subsequently appeared in \"The Tomb of Dracula\" #19-21 (April–June 1974), #26-28 (November 1974-January 1975), #37-42 (October 1975-March 1976), \"Doctor Strange\" #14 (May 1976), \"The Man Called Nova\" #22-25 (1979), \"Fantastic Four\" #206 (May 1979). #208-209 (July–August 1979), and #217 (April 1980).\n\nDoctor Sun received an entry in the \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition\" #17.\n\nDoctor Sun was born in Peking, People’s Republic of China, and was working as a scientist during the Cultural Revolution. Sun devised a program whereby a human brain could be removed from its body and supported indefinitely in a life support system. A political enemy managed to sentence Sun to death, then decided Sun should be the test subject of his own program.\n\nThe initial operation succeeded better than expected. Sun's disembodied brain was placed within a robotic chassis. When Sun's mind was connected to a computer bank, he suddenly developed psionic powers. He attacked the doctors, then forced the survivors to serve him. He kept his survival and powers a secret from the Chinese government and eventually left China completely.\n\nBecause of his dependence on human blood, Dr. Sun became involved with the study of real vampires. He decided that a vampiric army could serve him and conquer the world, but first he needed to conquer the vampires. He fought both Dracula and Blade a number of times, drained most of Dracula's powers, and even managed to kill him once, with the help of minion Lucas Brand.\n\nAfter Dracula revived and defeated his plans, Dr. Sun switched tactics. He discovered Nova's link to the supercomputers of Xandar. He captured Nova and intended to plug into the computers from Earth. When the Sphinx commandeered Nova's ship directly to Xandar, Sun abandoned his body and invaded the Xandarian computers directly. When the Fantastic Four later arrived with H.E.R.B.I.E., Sun downloaded into the robot's body. Upon returning to Earth, he tried to destroy the FF by turning their headquarters against them. He took possession of the Baxter Building's computer system. This freed H.E.R.B.I.E., who flew into the computer bank where Sun was isolated. Dr. Sun was presumed destroyed in the resultant explosion.\n\nDoctor Sun's disembodied brain has been placed within a robotic chassis. He gained psionic powers after his mind was connected to a computer bank.\nHis robotic body provided him with super strength and nigh invulnerabilty \n\n"}
{"id": "30873381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873381", "title": "Domestic robot", "text": "Domestic robot\n\nA domestic robot is a type of service robot, an autonomous robot that is primarily used for household chores, but may also be used for education, entertainment or therapy. Thus far, there are only a few limited models, though speculators, such as Bill Gates, have suggested that they could become more common in the future. Breakthroughs in universal picking, the ability for robots to rapidly and reliably grasp a diverse range of products, are responsible for enabling domestic robots to excel in tasks requiring dexterous manipulation of household objects previously thought to be too difficult for robots to grasp. While most domestic robots are simplistic, some are connected to WiFi home networks or smart environments and are autonomous to a high degree due to advances in fog computing and fog robotics. There were an estimated 3,540,000 service robots in use in 2006, compared with an estimated 950,000 industrial robots.\n\nEarly historical attempts to bring robots into the home include the HERO (1982–89) and the Topo (1983).\n\nThis type of domestic robot does chores around and inside homes. Different kinds include:\n\nRobotic vacuum cleaners and floor-washing robots that clean floors with sweeping and wet mopping functions. Some use Swiffer or other disposable cleaning cloths to dry-sweep, or reusable microfiber cloths to wet-mop.\n\nWithin the ironing robots, Dressman is a mannequin to dry and iron shirts using hot air. Other ones also includes manneqin for down parts (pants, trousers and skirts). More advanced ones fold and organizes the clothes, as Laundroid (using image analysis and artificial intelligence), Effie (irons 12 items of clothing at once) and FoldiMate.\n\nCat litter robots are automatic self-cleaning litter boxes that filter clumps out into a built-in waste receptacle that can be lined with an ordinary plastic bag.\n\nRobotic kitchens include Rotimatic (which makes rotis, tortillas, puris out of flour in just few minutes), Moley Robotics MK1 and Prometheus delta robot.\n\nSecurity robots such as Knightscope have a night-vision-capable wide-angle camera that detects movements and intruders. It can patrol places and shoot video of suspicious activities, too, and send alerts via email or text message; the stored history of past alerts and videos are accessible via the Web. The robot can also be configured to go into action at any time of the day.\n\nAtlas is a robot built to perform in house task such as sweeping, opening doors, climbing stairs, etc. Robots such as Atlas can be utilized to making the average person's day just that much more interesting and easy.\n\nA robotic lawn mower is a lawn mower that is able to mow a lawn by itself after being programmed. Once programmed, this invention repeats the operation by itself according to its programming. Robotic lawn mowers comes with a power unit which may be an electric motor or internal combustion engine. This provides power to the robot and allows it to move itself and its cutting blades. There is also a control unit which helps the mower move itself. This unit also contains a memory unit which records and memorizes its operation programming. Its memorized route includes the length of travel in a given direction and turn angles. This allows the same lawn to be mowed repeatedly without having to reprogram. The steering unit acquires an operation signal and propels the lead wheel, which leads the mower, go guide along the programmed route.\n\nSome models can mow complicated and uneven lawns that are up to three-quarters of an acre in size. Others can mow a lawn as large as , can handle a hill inclined up to 27 degrees.\n\nThere are also automated pool cleaners that clean and maintain swimming pools autonomously by scrubbing in-ground pools from the floor to the waterline in 3 hours, cleaning and circulating more than of water per minute, and removing debris as small as 2 µm in size.\n\nGutter-cleaning robots such as Looj use brushes and rubber blades to remove debris from rain gutters; users operate the device using a remote.\n\nWindow cleaning robots are most commonly used to clean outdoor windows, more specifically house windows. However, it may be used on other types of windows, such as ones on tall buildings and structures. This robot contains a movement system which allows the robot to navigate itself across the window surface in a defined direction. It also has a powered agitator located by the cleaning pad. When activated, the agitator gets rid of debris and dirt from the window surface. The cleaning pad directly interacts with the window surface and is directly responsible for removing the dirt by filling itself with specialized window cleaning fluid.\n\nA window-washing robot commonly uses two magnetic modules to navigate windows as it sprays cleaning solution onto microfiber pads to wash them. It covers about per charge.\n\nRobotic toys, such as the well known Furby, have been popular since 1998. There are also small humanoid remote controlled robots as well as electronic pets, such as robotic dogs. They have also have been used by many universities in competitions such as the RoboCup.\n\nSocial robots take on the function of social communication. Domestic humanoid robots are used by elderly and immobilized residents to keep them company.\n\nHome-telepresence robots can move around in a remote location and let one communicate with people there via its camera, speaker, and microphone.\n\nNetwork robots link ubiquitous networks with robots, contributing to the creation of new lifestyles and solutions to address a variety of social problems including the aging of population and nursing care.\n\nRobots built for therapy have been in production for quite some time now. Some of these uses can be for autism or physical therapy.\n\nLt. Comm. Data is a Starfleet officer in . The episode that best explains who Data is was , Data, an android on the U.S.S. Enterprise is on trial to determine whether or not he is truly human. He likes to be seen as a human, not a robot.\n\nIn the Star Wars film series, robots of all shapes and sizes can be found assisting the humans with several tasks. C-3PO is a robot designed to assist humans in translation, and etiquette.\n\nMany cartoons feature robot maids, notably Rosie the Robot from \"The Jetsons\". Maid Robots are especially prominent in anime (in Japanese, they are called Meido Robo, Meido Roboto or meido robot), and their artificial intelligence ranges from rudimentary to fully sentient and emotional, while their appearance ranges from obviously mechanical to human-like.\n\nThe 2009 adaptation of Astro Boy, based on creator Osamu Tezuka's Japanese anime Tetsuwan Atomu, showcases robots with various domestic functions. Orrin, with resemblance to the comedic, gold, humanoid companion, Starwars C-3PO, plays Dr. Tenma's domestic robot performing various tasks such as housekeeping and tutoring to Dr. Tenma's son, Toby.\n\nA vignette, shown at the end of the final episode of Syfy's failed 2010 \"Battlestar Galactica\" prequel TV series \"Caprica\", features early models of Cylons serving as domestic and industrial robotic assistants for the human inhabitants of the Twelve Colonies of Kobol, some five years prior to the revolt that precipitated the First Cylon War.\n\nIn the 2008 film Wall-E humans use sentient robots as trash compactors to clean up the mess they left behind on Earth. Wall-E is a small bulldozer-like robot who has claws for hands and spends all his time collecting garbage. Another robot named Eve is small, sleek, and can fly.\n\nThe 2012 movie \"Robot & Frank\" featured a domestic robot, the story of the movie centred on an elderly man and his relationship with a caretaker robot.\n\nhttps://patents.google.com/patent/US4694639A/en\nhttps://patents.google.com/patent/US20170164797A1/en\n\n"}
{"id": "25966582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25966582", "title": "Eidothea zoexylocarya", "text": "Eidothea zoexylocarya\n\nEidothea zoexylocarya is a species of tall rainforest trees endemic to north-eastern Queensland, Australia and constituting part of the plant family Proteaceae. In European–Australian science, these trees were only recognised in recent decades, first from the slopes of Mount Bartle Frere, the Queensland mountain which reaches the highest altitude. In 1995, scientific descriptions of the trees, as this genus and type species, were published for the first time by Andrew W. Douglas and Bernie Hyland. The species name refers to the almost identical fossil fruit \"Xylocaryon lockii\" (picture below), from Ballarat, southern Australia, still extant (\"zoe\" means life) in this north-eastern Australian species.\n\n\"Eidothea zoexylocarya\"'s rare, endemic, geographically isolated distribution has obtained the conservation status \"vulnerable\", officially listed in the regulation current , of the Queensland government legislation, the \"Nature Conservation Act 1992\".\n\nThey grow naturally to tall trees up to tall, with one main trunk, up to diameter at breast height and without the coppice shoots around the base typical of \"Eidothea hardeniana\". They have ash–grey bark with pale lenticels.\n\nThey have mostly hairless, simple leaves , arranged opposite to each other or in whorls of 3–8. \"E. zoexylocarya\" is the only known Proteaceae to possess giant cuticular pores in its leaves (diameter 1 μm, density 120000/mm2), which could play a role in absorbing more water from mist after periods of water stress.\n\nFrom Sep. to May flowering occurs in axillary or terminal clusters, long, of 6–10 flowers; each flower has white or cream perianth parts long, fragrant and insect pollinated.\n\nThe fruits have a globose or ovoid shape, green to yellowish or brown, long x wide and ripen from Aug.–May. Each seed is contained in a hard woody brown endocarp with several longitudinal ribs on its inside corresponding to longitudinal intrusions in the seed surface. Giant white-tailed rats eat the seeds both on the tree and the ground. The hollowed out woody endocarps often remain around the base of the parent tree as they break down slowly.\n\nThey grow naturally in rainforests from Mount Bartle Frere (headwaters of the Mulgrave River and Russell River) to Thornton Peak and Mount Pieter Botte (headwaters of the Bloomfield River), north-eastern Queensland. They grow naturally in soils derived from metamorphic or granitic geological parent materials, in complex mesophyll (leaf area) to simple notophyll vine forests, at altitude and have records from several conservation areas.\n"}
{"id": "30302946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30302946", "title": "Evan-Burrows Fontaine", "text": "Evan-Burrows Fontaine\n\nEvan-Burrows Fontaine (October 3, 1898 – December 27, 1984) was an American Denishawn-trained interpretive dancer and actress whose career suffered after she became entangled in a breach of promise lawsuit with a member of one of America's wealthiest families.\n\nEvan-Burrows Fontaine was born on October 3, 1898, at Huron, Texas, a present-day ghost town with the Cedar Creek Baptist Church as its last surviving structure. She was the daughter of William Winston Spotswood Fontaine, an accountant who would later become general manager of the Alamo Cottonseed Company and Florence West Evans, the daughter of a Dallas life insurance agent. Her family later moved to Dallas, where by the turn of the twentieth century they were boarders at a rooming house owned by her maternal grandparents. Fontaine's paternal 3rd great-grandmother was Martha Henry, daughter of American founding father Patrick Henry. Her grandfather, William Winston Fontaine, served in the American Civil War as a colonel under Confederate generals, Stonewall Jackson and J.E.B. Stuart. After the war he taught at Baylor Female College in Independence, Texas and later held the chair of Latin for a decade at the University of Texas. Not much is known here about Fontaine’s early life except that by 1915 she was living with her mother in New York City and that at an early age she traveled to California where she became a protégée of dancer Ruth St. Denis. Later she would claim she was also trained by Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, but this has yet to be verified.\n\nFontaine was taught the \"Dance Egyptienne\" by St. Denis’ husband, choreographer Ted Shawn, one of several dances Shawn would teach her based on his interpretation of Javanese ceremonial dancing. Fontaine’s stage debut may have occurred on December 16, 1914, when she performed Shawn’s \"Syvillia\" in a production staged by St. Denis’ company at the Ye Liberty Playhouse in Oakland, California. The next year she was booked to perform the traditional \"Jockey Dance\" at an annual celebration that follows the running of the Saratoga Cup in upstate New York. Fontaine went on to tour nationally with dancer and future film actor Kenneth Harlan before joining the Ziegfeld Follies where she would later shine in Ziegfeld’s \"Midnight Follies\" (1919). Around this time she also appeared in The Ed Wynn Carnival as the Queen of the Nile at New York’s Amsterdam Theater. Fontaine was among a group of entertainers who in 1919 donated their talents to a benefit costume ball held on behalf of blind war veterans at Manhattan’s Ritz-Carlton. The next year at the Casino Theatre (Broadway) Fontaine helped put on a memorial charity show that honored the actor Frank Carter on the first anniversary of his death. In 1920 Fontaine worked on three motion pictures, \"Madonnas and Men\", playing the dual roles of Nerissa and Ninon, \"Women Men Love\" as Moira Lamson, and as a dancer in \"A Romantic Adventuress\". Within a few years though, Fontaine would be limited to performing her “Oriental style” dancing at cabarets and nightclubs as her sensational court battles with a member of one of America’s wealthiest families most likely derailed any chance she had of attaining future stardom in New York or Los Angeles.\n\nA performance by Fontaine was incorporated in the 1921 novel \"Beauty\", by Rupert Hughes:\n\nEyebrows were raised when in late 1919 the press published a photograph (right) of Fontaine jogging along the Hudson River in stockings, clad in a heavy hooded sweater and workout shorts; something that would have probably gone unnoticed a few years later.\n\nOn April 18, 1918, Fontaine married Sterling Lawrence Adair, a young sailor from Houston, Texas, whom she had met on a train ride the year before. Their marriage was annulled in February, 1920, around the time she became involved with millionaire Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney. This relationship collapsed when Whitney became engaged to Marie Norton, sometime before Fontaine gave birth to a baby boy that December. On January 14 of the following year, Sterling Adair was found shot to death at his Oak Wood apartment in south Dallas. A police homicide investigation would prove inconclusive and a later coroner’s jury would rule Adair probably died by his own hand.\n\nIn the summer of 1922 Fontaine filed what would turn out to be the first of several lawsuits against Cornelius “Sonny” Vanderbilt Whitney, claiming he had broken his pledge to marry her and that he was the father of her son. Whitney’s attorneys countered that Fontaine was still married to Adair at the time of the proposal and that the date of her marriage annulment was contrived by Fontaine and her mother. Over the next several months the case would become headline fodder for the national press; in the end though, Whitney’s attorneys prevailed and the case was dismissed. After the trial’s end, Fontaine and her mother were arrested for perjury; charges that were in due course vacated by a judge. Fontaine continued the battle with subsequent lawsuits against Whitney that would fare no better than the first.\n\nOn January 21, 1928, Fontaine’s mother was killed near New Smyrna Beach, Florida, when her automobile collided with a Florida East Coast Railway passenger train. Florence Fontaine had been on her way to Miami to care of her daughter who had fallen ill. Fontaine's father died on August 19, 1939, while on a visit to her home in Margate, New Jersey. At the time Winston Fontaine was a member of the Dallas office of the Loyalty Group Insurance Company.\n\nFontaine married former Olympic swimmer Harold “Stubby” Kruger in 1928 or 29. Bobby, her second son, would be born to this union before their divorce in 1935. Curiously, upon returning from Europe in October 1930, she was listed on the passenger manifest of the SS \"Leviathan\" as Evan Burrows Fontaine Friedman along with a Walter Friedman of New York City. Kruger was a colleague of Johnny Weissmuller and performed at carnivals and fairs billed as the Incomparable Water Comedian. He also had a career in Hollywood as an actor and stunt double that began in the silent era and lasted well into the 1950s. His last film credit was as Spencer Tracy’s double in \"The Old Man and the Sea\". Harold Herman Kruger was born on September 23, 1898, at Honolulu, Hawaii, and died in Los Angeles, California, on October 7, 1965. In 1986 Kruger was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame at Fort Lauderdale, Florida.\n\nSometime in the late 1930s Fontaine became a co-owner of the Walton Roof, a Philadelphia night spot atop the Walton Hotel, along with her husband (or soon-to-be husband), restaurateur Jack Lynch. Her first son, Neil “Sonny” Winston Fontaine, debuted there as a band leader in 1939, and later served at times as master of ceremonies before the club’s demise in 1946. Jack Lynch was a long-time owner of clubs and restaurants in the Philadelphia area before his death in 1957. Evan-Burrows Fontaine died on December 27, 1984, aged 86, at the Winchester Medical Center in Winchester, Virginia. She spent her final years as a resident of Paris, a small rural town in northern Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "5392294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392294", "title": "Fate of the unlearned", "text": "Fate of the unlearned\n\nThe fate of the unlearned, also known as the destiny of the unevangelized, is an eschatological question about the ultimate destiny of people who have not been exposed to a particular theology or doctrine and thus have no opportunity to embrace it. The question is whether those who never hear of requirements issued through divine revelations will be punished for failure to abide by those requirements.\n\nIt is sometimes addressed in combination with the similar question of the fate of the unbeliever. Differing faith traditions have different responses to the question; in Christianity the fate of the unlearned is related to the question of original sin. As some suggest that rigid readings of religious texts require harsh punishment for those who have never heard of that religion, it is sometimes raised as an argument against the existence of God, and is generally accepted to be an extension or sub-section of the problem of evil.\n\nIn the early Church, Justin Martyr, a Church Father, taught that those who lived according to the \"logos\" are Christians, though they might not know about Jesus Christ. Tertullian held that Christ has descended into Hades to deliver the Good News, with Clement of Alexandria, Origen and Athanasius declaring that \"Jesus delivered from hell both Jews and Gentiles who accepted the gospel and that postmortem evangelism continues even today\". Augustine of Hippo, however, believed that the unevangelized are condemned to hell and Thomas Aquainas held that those \"brought up in the forest or among wolves\" would be sent \"the gospel message through miraculous means.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church believes that Jesus Christ attained salvation \"for all people by his death on the cross, but that some may choose to reject it.\" It teaches that salvation comes from \"God alone\", but that the Church is the \"mother\" and \"teacher\" of the faithful. Thus, \"all salvation comes through the Church\", and the Catholic Church mediates Christ's salvation through the sacraments. Specifically, it teaches that Christian baptism is necessary for salvation, and that the Catholic Church is also necessary as \"the universal sacrament of salvation\", but that some may be joined to the Church by baptism of desire or by baptism of blood (martyrdom) in absence of ritual baptism, and thus attain salvation also through the Church. \"Divine and Catholic faith\", untainted by willful heresy, and love are also necessary for salvation, as is dying in a state of grace. Catholic teaching allows for the salvation of one with genuine ignorance of the Catholic Church, who \"seeks the truth and does the will of God in accordance with his understanding of it\". Unbaptized catechumens can be saved, in the Catholic view, because the desire to receive the sacrament of baptism, together with sincere repentance for one's sins, together with the attainment of \"divine and Catholic faith\", assures salvation. In the case of the righteous unlearned, \"It may be supposed that such persons would have desired Baptism explicitly if they had known its necessity\" and, by extension, God may permit them to attain salvation.\n\nIn Protestantism, the issue centers on whether those who have not heard the Gospel receive salvation or damnation. The French reformer John Calvin affirmed the doctrine \"extra Ecclesiam nulla salus\", writing in his \"Institutes of the Christian Religion\" at the time of the Reformation, \"beyond the pale of the Church no forgiveness of sins, no salvation, can be hoped for\" [IV.i.iv]. Calvin wrote also that \"those to whom he is a Father, the Church must also be a mother\", echoing the words of the originator of the Latin phrase himself, Cyprian: \"He can no longer have God for his Father who has not the Church for his mother.\" The idea is further affirmed in the Puritan, Anglican Westminster Confession of Faith of 1647 that \"the visible Church ... is the Kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, the house and family of God, out of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation\".\n\nThe dogma is related to the universal Protestant dogma that the Church is the body of all believers and debates within Protestantism usually centre on the meaning of \"church\" (\"ecclesiam\") and \"apart\" (\"extra\"). Theologian John Sanders noted that \"Although God's decision on this issue is final, the church has never agreed on the nature of that decision.\" Sanders and Clark Pinnock propose a position known as \"inclusivism\", under which many of the unevangelized will receive salvation because they have faith in God as they know him (as Hindus or Muslims, for example), and they are saved by Christ's work. With regard to the fate of the unlearned, Willard Francis Mallalieu, a Methodist bishop, wrote in \"Some Things That Methodism Stands For\":\nThe United Methodist Church thus has prayers for the dead for unbaptized children and those \"who did not profess the Christian faith\": we 'commit those who are dear to us to your never-failing love, for this life and the life to come.'\" The Methodist funeral liturgy for non-Christians beseeches God to \"look favorably ... upon those ... who scarcely knew your grace. ... Grant mercy also to those who have departed this life in ignorance or defiance of you. We plead for them in the spirit of him who prayed, 'Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.'\" Likewise, the Church of England, mother Church of the Anglican Communion has a prayer for the unlearned: \"God of infinite mercy and justice, who has made man in thine own image, and hatest nothing thou hast made, we rejoice in thy love for all creation and commend all mankind to thee, that in them thy will be done.\" The Christian Reformed Church (CRC), in its funeral rites, has \"prayers for those who lived openly sinful lives\", i.e. \"we place in your merciful hands N . . . . His/her life was filled with sin and struggle, but only you . . . perceive what mustard seed of faith . . . was hidden in his/her heart\". It also prays for those \"who were not known to be Christian\", i.e. \"we commend N. . . . to your merciful care, knowing that you . . . will do right\".\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (LDS Church) or Mormonism, teaches that those who die without knowledge of LDS theology will have the opportunity to receive a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the spirit world. Latter-day Saints believe that God has provided a way so that all of humankind will have an opportunity to hear the message of the gospel, and can thereby choose whether to accept it or not. Mormons assert that modern day revelation has clarified and confirmed the Biblical accounts that during the three days between his death and resurrection, Christ \"went and preached unto the spirits in prison\" (1 Peter 3:19, see also 1 Peter 4:6), at which time he also commissioned other spirits to \"go forth and carry the light of the gospel to them that were in darkness, even to all the spirits of men\" (Doctrine and Covenants 138:30 ). Since Latter-day Saints believe that all people must receive the proper ordinances in order to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven, today members of the LDS Church participate in a massive genealogical effort to compile names of their kindred dead, and then act as proxies in ordinances performed on behalf of their deceased ancestors within LDS temples. The beneficiaries of this temple work are then free to accept or reject the vicarious ordinances performed on their behalf.\n\nMormons do not believe that children come into the world with any guilt, because Jesus Christ atoned for \"original guilt\"; therefore no one is condemned by original sin and people are responsible only for their own sins once they have reached the age of accountability. Those incapable of understanding right from wrong, such as the mentally handicapped, are also saved under the atonement of Jesus Christ without baptism.\n\nIn Mormon belief, only \"sons of perdition\" who choose to reject Jesus after receiving a sure knowledge of him are destined for a form of Hell called outer darkness.\n\nJehovah’s Witnesses see no dilemma between this issue and what the scriptures teach. They believe that due to Adam’s rebellion (the first created human) all mankind inherited sin and death. (Rom 5:12) God, in his love, sent his son Jesus Christ to redeem mankind from that sad condition, and help them attain everlasting life. (John 3:16, 36) Since they understand that faith in that provision is the only way to attain its benefits, they view their preaching work as essential and urgent. (Romans 3:25,26; 10:14,15) They believe that at some appointed time, once sufficient time has been given for a thorough witness, Jesus Christ will assume his royal authority and bring an end to the corrupt system of things that exists on the earth today. (Matthew 24:14) Those with genuine faith that are alive at that time will be able to survive and form the basis of a new world of righteousness under the benign and just government of Jesus Christ. (Revelation 7:14, 16, 17)\n\nIf at the appointed time for the judgement there are some who couldn't be reached with the message of salvation, due to government restrictions or other such causes outside of the witnesses control, they believe that the principle of community responsibility may be applied to them. Likewise, they believe that children of Jehovah's Witnesses may be saved even if they have not yet been baptized due to not yet having reached the age at which they may make their own decisions. For all other cases they view baptism as a required \"request for a good relationship with God\" through faith in Jesus Christ. (1 Peter 3:21) However, their official journal, The Watchtower, stated: “When judgement time arrives, to what extent will Jesus consider community responsibility and family merit? We cannot say, and it is pointless to speculate. (Compare 1 Corinthians 7:14.)” \n\nJehovah’s Witnesses believe that there is also another group that will attain salvation, this one in heaven. (Rev 14:1, 3) They believe that this group began to be gathered first, starting with Jesus’ apostles and his first disciples. Jesus called this group the “little flock”. (Luke 12:32) Sometime before the end of this system of things arrives, they are resurrected as spiritual creatures (Php 3:20, 21; 1Cor 15:51, 52). They believe that this group will join Jesus Christ in the governance of that new world. (Rev 20:6) They believe that the vast majority of Christians today do not belong to this group, but to the one that will live in perfection on the Earth forever. (Psalms 37:10, 11, 29)\n\nAs for the billions of people who will have died before that time and who were not part of the \"little flock\" group, Jehovah’s Witnesses believe that they will be resurrected, here on Earth, during Christ's millennial reign. (John 5:28, 29) That includes those who never had the opportunity to hear about the message of Jesus Christ, as well as those faithful servants of God who died before the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ was paid. (John 3:13; Acts 24:15) Jesus intends to bring them back to life, on Earth, and judge them according to how they behave then, not according to what they did in their previous life.\n\nThey base that belief in the fact that the Bible states that “the wages sin pays is death”. (Romans 6:23) To them this means that death is the single stipulated punishment for any sins committed during one’s lifetime. When a person dies, God, in a sense, forgets all the injustices that person did. (Eccl 9:5,6) “For the one who has died has been acquitted from his sin.” (Rom 6:7) Therefore, they believe that when Jesus uses his authority to resurrect people, it will be in order to give them a second chance, on the basis of his ransom sacrifice. Their behavior during that time will be symbolically written in a new scroll, “the scroll of life”. (Rev 20:12, 13) Those who prove unworthy due to persistent rebellion against their creator will be symbolically thrown into “the lake of fire”, which symbolizes eternal destruction, “the second death”. (Rev 20:7-10, 14) For the rest, an eternal paradise of peace, justice, and love awaits. (2 Peter 3:13; Rev 21:3, 4)\n\nA similar issue exists in Islam, as different authorities within the faith have issued different theories as to the destiny of those who do not know of Muhammad or Allah. Islam generally rejects the possibility that those who have never heard of the revelations embodied in the Quran might automatically merit punishment.\n\nAccording to Quran, the basic criteria for salvation in the afterlife is the belief in one God, the Last Judgment, acceptance and obedience of what is in the Quran and ordained by the prophet, and good deeds. As the Qur'an states:\nThe Quran also asserts that those who reject the Messengers of God with their best knowledge are damned in the afterlife and if they reject the Messenger of God in front of him, then they also face a dreadful fate in this world and in the afterlife (see Itmam al-hujjah). Conversely, a person who discovers monotheism without having been reached by a messenger is called Hanif. But it should be remembered, Islam also states every community in the world, no matter how isolated, had been sent at least one prophet to teach them. So, this belief limits the possibility of people not hearing God's message. Part of Ibrahim's story in the Quran also suggests every human is capable of finding the one true God by their own common sense.\n\nOne view is that \"A person who has never heard of Islam or the Prophet... and who has never heard the message in its correct and true form, will not be punished by Allah if he dies in a state of disbelief. If it were asked what his fate will be, the answer will be that Allah will test him on the Day of Resurrection: if he obeys, he will enter Paradise and if he disobeys he will enter Hell.\" But, even those who have not heard the message will be held to some standard of conduct: \"Because everyone is a born Muslim, those who have never heard of Islam are only responsible for not doing what common sense tells him or her to do. Those who knowingly violate God's laws will be punished for their wrongdoing.\" Under this view, those who have not heard the message are \"excused,\" and Allah \"rewards such people for the good they have done, and they enjoy the blessings of Paradise.\" A similar view is that \"if such people find the Creator through the use of reason, even though they do not know His Names or Attributes, they will be saved. If they do not do this, they will not be saved.\"\n\nSome would extend this mercy to the incompetently evangelized, that is, to people \"who have been reached by the name of Muhammad but who have been given a false account,\" and for whom it is then said that they \"have not rejected true Islam but only a distorted version of it and they will therefore be judged in the same category as those people who never heard of Islam in the first place.\"\n\nThe more complicated question of what will happen, for example, to people of religions other than Judaism and Christianity is significantly more controversial. There is particularly controversy over the meaning of the word \"Sabians\". The long presence of Islam in South Asia, however, has engendered many debates about the status of Hindus, which has run the whole gamut between a more standard dismissal of Hinduism as shirk, or polytheism, to some Muslims, such as Mirza Mazhar Jan-e-Janaan even going so far as to recognize Rama and Krishna as Prophets of Islam not explicitly mentioned in Muslim scripture – thereby making Hindus equivalent to Christians or Jews.\n\nThe problem of the unevangelized does not arise in religious or spiritual traditions such as Deism, Pandeism, and Pantheism, which do not include any revelation or require obedience to revealed rules. In Deism, some believe that individuals will be judged by one's obedience to natural laws of right and wrong to be obtained by the exercise of reason alone, and so, failure to exercise reason in the effort to make this determination is itself the cause for punishment.\n\nIn Buddhism, all souls, whether evangelized or not, will continue to be reincarnated until they have achieved Nirvana. However, Buddhist scholars have said that \"any suggestion that enlightenment is immediately available to anyone who really wants it, even if he has never heard of Buddhism, is likely to be received with incredulity or even resentment.\"\n\nDante attempted to answer this question with the first level of Hell in the \"Divine Comedy\", where the virtuous pagans live. They are described as those who lived before the time of Jesus and therefore unable to enter Purgatory or Heaven. Amongst them is Virgil, Dante's guide through Hell and Purgatory.\n"}
{"id": "56779736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56779736", "title": "Gene Gomes", "text": "Gene Gomes\n\nGene M. Gomes (January 22, 1946 – March 6, 2018) was an American judge.\n\nGomes was born in Fresno, California. He graduated from Fresno High School in 1963. Gomes received his bachelor's degree from Fresno State University in 1969 and then he received his law degree from McGeorge School of Law in 1972. He served as a deputy district attorney for Fresno County, California. Gomes practiced law in Fresno, California. In 1980, Gomes was appointed to the Fresno Municipal Court. Then, in 1982, he was appointed to the Fresno Superior Court. Gomes served on the California Courts of Appeal from 2002 until his death. Gomes died in Fresno, California.\n"}
{"id": "362464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362464", "title": "Genentech", "text": "Genentech\n\nGenentech, Inc., is a biotechnology corporation which became a subsidiary of Roche in 2009. Genentech Research and Early Development operates as an independent center within Roche.\n\nAs of September 2017, Genentech employed 15,064 people.\n\nThe company was founded in 1976 by venture capitalist Robert A. Swanson and biochemist Herbert Boyer. Boyer is considered to be a pioneer in the field of recombinant DNA technology. In 1973, Boyer and his colleague Stanley Norman Cohen demonstrated that restriction enzymes could be used as \"scissors\" to cut DNA fragments of interest from one source, to be ligated into a similarly cut plasmid vector. While Cohen returned to the laboratory in academia, Swanson contacted Boyer to found the company. Boyer worked with Arthur Riggs and Keiichi Itakura from the Beckman Research Institute, and the group became the first to successfully express a human gene in bacteria when they produced the hormone somatostatin in 1977. David Goeddel and Dennis Kleid were then added to the group, and contributed to its success with synthetic human insulin in 1978.\n\nIn 1990 F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG acquired a majority stake in Genentech.\n\nIn 2006 Genentech acquired Tanox in its first acquisition deal. Tanox had started developing Xolair and development was completed in collaboration with Novartis and Genentech; the acquisition allowed Genentech to keep more of the revenue.\n\nin March 2009 Roche acquired Genentech by buying shares it didn't already control for approximately $46.8 billion.\n\nIn July 2014, Genentech/Roche acquired Seragon for its pipeline of small-molecule cancer drug candidates for $725 million cash upfront, with an additional $1 billion of payments dependent on successful development of products in Seragon's pipeline.\n\nGenentech was a pioneering research-driven biotechnology company that has continued to conduct R&D internally as well as through collaborations.\n\nGenentech's research collaborations include:\n\n\nGenentech's corporate headquarters are in South San Francisco, California (), with additional manufacturing facilities in Vacaville, California; Oceanside, California; and Hillsboro, Oregon.\n\nIn December 2006, Genentech sold its Porriño, Spain, facility to Lonza and acquired an exclusive right to purchase Lonza's mammalian cell culture manufacturing facility under construction in Singapore. In June 2007, Genentech began the construction and development of an \"E. coli\" manufacturing facility, also in Singapore, for the worldwide production of Lucentis (ranibizumab injection) bulk drug substance.\n\nGenentech Inc Political Action Committee is a U.S. Federal Political Action Committee (PAC), created to \"aggregate contributions from members or employees and their families to donate to candidates for federal office.\"\n\nIn November 1999, Genentech agreed to pay the University of California, San Francisco $200 million to settle a nine-year-old patent dispute. In 1990, UCSF sued Genentech for $400 million in compensation for alleged theft of technology developed at the university and covered by a 1982 patent. Genentech claimed that they developed Protropin (recombinant somatotropin/human growth hormone), independently of UCSF. A jury ruled that the university's patent was valid in July 1999, but wasn't able to decide whether Protropin was based upon UCSF research or not. Protropin, a drug used to treat dwarfism, was Genentech's first marketed drug and its $2 billion in sales has contributed greatly to its position as an industry leader. The settlement was to be divided as follows: $30 million to the University of California General Fund, $85 million to the three inventors and two collaborating scientists, $50 million towards a new teaching and research campus for UCSF, and $35 million to support university-wide research.\n\nIn 2009, \"The New York Times\" reported that Genentech's talking points on health care reform appeared verbatim in the official statements of several Members of Congress during the national health care reform debate.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13957150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13957150", "title": "Genetic algorithm scheduling", "text": "Genetic algorithm scheduling\n\nThe genetic algorithm is an operational research method that may be used to solve scheduling problems in production planning.\n\nTo be competitive, corporations must minimize inefficiencies and maximize productivity. In manufacturing, productivity is inherently linked to how well the firm can optimize the available resources, reduce waste and increase efficiency. Finding the best way to maximize efficiency in a manufacturing process can be extremely complex. Even on simple projects, there are multiple inputs, multiple steps, many constraints and limited resources. In general a resource constrained scheduling problem consists of:\n\nA typical factory floor setting is a good example of this, where it is necessary to schedule which jobs need to be completed on which machines, by which employees, in what order and at what time. \n\nIn very complex problems such as scheduling there is no known way to get to a final answer, so we resort to searching for it trying to find a “good” answer. Scheduling problems most often use heuristic algorithms to search for the optimal solution. Heuristic search methods suffer as the inputs become more complex and varied. This type of problem is known in computer science as an NP-Hard problem. This means that there are no known algorithms for finding an optimal solution in polynomial time.\nGenetic algorithms are well suited to solving production scheduling problems, because unlike heuristic methods genetic algorithms operate on a population of solutions rather than a single solution. In production scheduling this population of solutions consists of many answers that may have different sometimes conflicting objectives. For example, in one solution we may be optimizing a production process to be completed in a minimal amount of time. In another solution we may be optimizing for a minimal amount of defects. By cranking up the speed at which we produce we may run into an increase in defects in our final product.\n\nAs we increase the number of objectives we are trying to achieve we also increase the number of constraints on the problem and similarly increase the complexity. Genetic algorithms are ideal for these types of problems where the search space is large and the number of feasible solutions is small.\n\nTo apply a genetic algorithm to a scheduling problem we must first represent it as a genome. One way to represent a scheduling genome is to define a sequence of tasks and the start times of those tasks relative to one another. Each task and its corresponding start time represents a gene.\n\nA specific sequence of tasks and start times (genes) represents one genome in our population. To make sure that our genome is a feasible solution we must take care that it obeys our precedence constraints. We generate an initial population using random start times within the precedence constraints. With genetic algorithms we then take this initial population and cross it, combining genomes along with a small amount of randomness (mutation). The offspring of this combination is selected based on a fitness function that includes one or many of our constraints, such as minimizing time and minimizing defects. We let this process continue either for a pre-allotted time or until we find a solution that fits our minimum criteria. Overall each successive generation will have a greater average fitness, i.e. taking less time with higher quality than the preceding generations. In scheduling problems, as with other genetic algorithm solutions, we must make sure that we do not select offspring that are infeasible, such as offspring that violate our precedence constraint. We of course may have to add further fitness values such as minimizing costs; however, each constraint that we add greatly increases the search space and lowers the number of solutions that are good matches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14961001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14961001", "title": "George R. Davis (New York)", "text": "George R. Davis (New York)\n\nGeorge Rex Davis (1788 Johnstown, then in Montgomery County, now in Fulton County, New York – June 24, 1867 Troy, Rensselaer County, New York) was an American lawyer and politician from New York. He was Speaker of the New York State Assembly in 1831 and 1843.\n\nHe removed to Hoosick Falls, New York, and opened a tailor shop there. Later he studied law, and was admitted to the bar about 1810, and commenced practice there. He married Amy Lottridge (1793–1856), and their only daughter was Charlotte M. Davis who married Thaddeus W. Patchen in 1837.\n\nIn 1814, one hundred and twenty-eight volunteers under George R. Davis joined the State Militia, and all marched from Troy to Plattsburgh, but the Battle of Plattsburgh had been fought before they reached there.\n\nWhen he became a judge of the Court of Common Pleas for Rensselaer County in 1829, he moved to the county seat Troy.\n\nIn 1830, under the provisions of the Safety Fund Law, he was appointed Bank Commissioner, and served five terms until 1840.\n\nHe was a member from Rensselaer County of the New York State Assembly in 1819, 1830, 1831, 1842 and 1843; and was Speaker in 1831 and 1843.\n\nHe was First Judge of the Rensselaer County Court from 1838 to 1847.\n\nHe died drowning. His granddaughters Mary and Caroline Patchen, aged 23 and 20, also died drowning, in a shipwreck on Lake Erie in June 1868.\n\n"}
{"id": "6072504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6072504", "title": "Godfrey G. Goodwin", "text": "Godfrey G. Goodwin\n\nGodfrey Gummer Goodwin (January 11, 1873 – February 16, 1933) was a Representative from Minnesota.\n\nHe was born Alfred Gustafson near St. Peter, Nicollet County, Minnesota, to a single mother, Cecilia Carlson (née Sissa Carlsdotter), a native of Sweden. They moved to St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1882, where he took the name Godfrey Gummer Goodwin. He attended public schools and graduated from the faculty of law at the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis in 1896. He was admitted to the bar in 1896 and commenced practice in Cambridge, Minnesota.\n\nHe married Geneva Edwina Josephina Gouldberg June 5, 1905. He served as president of the Board of Education in Cambridge, Minnesota from 1914 to 1917.\n\nHe was prosecuting attorney of Isanti County from 1898 to 1907. He was elected to the position again in November 1913, and served until February 15, 1925, when he resigned as he had been elected to Congress.\n\nHe was elected as a Republican to the 69th, 70th, 71st, and 72nd congresses, serving from March 4, 1925, to February 16, 1933. After his congressional district was eliminated, he failed to receive nomination to the at-large Minnesota delegation in 1932. He plunged to his death from a window of the Hotel Driscoll in Washington, D.C., on February 16, 1933, only two weeks before the end of his final term. It is not known whether Goodwin intended to commit suicide or if the fall was an accident. He is interred in Lakewood Cemetery, Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\n"}
{"id": "45003516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45003516", "title": "Higinia Bartolomé de Alamo", "text": "Higinia Bartolomé de Alamo\n\nHiginia Bartolomé de Alamo was a Venezuelan poet and writer from Barquisimeto. A contemporary of professor Alberto Castillo Arráez, she was the wife of Dr. Antonio Alamo (1873-1953), Minister of Development and governor of Bolívar state during the government of Juan Vicente Gómez.\n"}
{"id": "23824086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23824086", "title": "Holon (physics)", "text": "Holon (physics)\n\nHolons (also known as chargons, from English \"hole\" or \"charge\", plus the \"-on\" suffix for particles) are one of three quasiparticles, along with spinons and orbitons, that electrons in solids are able to split into during the process of spin–charge separation, when extremely tightly confined at temperatures close to absolute zero. The electron can always be theoretically considered as a bound state of the three, with the spinon carrying the spin of the electron, the orbiton carrying the orbital location and the holon carrying the charge, but in certain conditions they can become deconfined and behave as independent particles.\n\nElectrons, being fermions, repel each other due to the Pauli exclusion principle. As a result, in order to move past each other in an extremely crowded environment, they are forced to modify their behavior. Research published in July 2009 by the University of Cambridge and the University of Birmingham in England showed that electrons could jump past each other by quantum tunneling, and in order to do so will separate into two particles, named spinons and holons by the researchers.\n\nNature Magazine : Not-quite-so elementary, my dear electron\n\n"}
{"id": "18896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18896", "title": "Human spaceflight", "text": "Human spaceflight\n\nHuman spaceflight (also referred to as crewed spaceflight or manned spaceflight) is space travel with a crew or passengers aboard the spacecraft. Spacecraft carrying people may be operated directly, by human crew, or it may be either remotely operated from ground stations on Earth or be autonomous, able to carry out a specific mission with no human involvement.\n\nThe first human spaceflight was launched by the Soviet Union on 12 April 1961 as a part of the Vostok program, with cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin aboard. Humans have been continuously present in space for on the International Space Station. All early human spaceflight was crewed, where at least some of the passengers acted to carry out tasks of piloting or operating the spacecraft. After 2015, several human-capable spacecraft are being explicitly designed with the ability to operate autonomously.\n\nSince the retirement of the US Space Shuttle in 2011, only Russia and China have maintained human spaceflight capability with the Soyuz program and Shenzhou program. Currently, all expeditions to the International Space Station use Soyuz vehicles, which remain attached to the station to allow quick return if needed. The United States is developing commercial crew transportation to facilitate domestic access to ISS and low Earth orbit, as well as the Orion vehicle for beyond-low Earth orbit applications.\n\nWhile spaceflight has typically been a government-directed activity, commercial spaceflight has gradually been taking on a greater role. The first private human spaceflight took place on 21 June 2004, when SpaceShipOne conducted a suborbital flight, and a number of non-governmental companies have been working to develop a space tourism industry. NASA has also played a role to stimulate private spaceflight through programs such as Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) and Commercial Crew Development (CCDev). With its 2011 budget proposals released in 2010, the Obama administration moved towards a model where commercial companies would supply NASA with transportation services of both people and cargo transport to low Earth orbit. The vehicles used for these services could then serve both NASA and potential commercial customers. Commercial resupply of ISS began two years after the retirement of the Shuttle, and commercial crew launches could begin by 2018.\n\nHuman spaceflight capability was first developed during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union (USSR), which developed the first intercontinental ballistic missile rockets to deliver nuclear weapons. These rockets were large enough to be adapted to carry the first artificial satellites into low Earth orbit. After the first satellites were launched in 1957 and 1958, the US worked on Project Mercury to launch men singly into orbit, while the USSR secretly pursued the Vostok program to accomplish the same thing. The USSR launched the first human in space, Yuri Gagarin, into a single orbit in Vostok 1 on a Vostok 3KA rocket, on 12 April 1961. The US launched its first astronaut, Alan Shepard, on a suborbital flight aboard \"Freedom 7\" on a Mercury-Redstone rocket, on 5 May 1961. Unlike Gagarin, Shepard manually controlled his spacecraft's attitude, and landed inside it. The first American in orbit was John Glenn aboard \"Friendship 7\", launched 20 February 1962 on a Mercury-Atlas rocket. The USSR launched five more cosmonauts in Vostok capsules, including the first woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova aboard Vostok 6 on 16 June 1963. The US launched a total of two astronauts in suborbital flight and four into orbit through 1963.\n\nUS President John F. Kennedy raised the stakes of the Space Race by setting the goal of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely by the end of the 1960s. The US started the three-man Apollo program in 1961 to accomplish this, launched by the Saturn family of launch vehicles, and the interim two-man Project Gemini in 1962, which flew 10 missions launched by Titan II rockets in 1965 and 1966. Gemini's objective was to support Apollo by developing American orbital spaceflight experience and techniques to be used in the Moon mission.\n\nMeanwhile, the USSR remained silent about their intentions to send humans to the Moon, and proceeded to stretch the limits of their single-pilot Vostok capsule into a two- or three-person Voskhod capsule to compete with Gemini. They were able to launch two orbital flights in 1964 and 1965 and achieved the first spacewalk, made by Alexei Leonov on Voskhod 2 on 8 March 1965. But Voskhod did not have Gemini's capability to maneuver in orbit, and the program was terminated. The US Gemini flights did not accomplish the first spacewalk, but overcame the early Soviet lead by performing several spacewalks and solving the problem of astronaut fatigue caused by overcoming the lack of gravity, demonstrating up to two weeks endurance in a human spaceflight, and the first space rendezvous and dockings of spacecraft.\n\nThe US succeeded in developing the Saturn V rocket necessary to send the Apollo spacecraft to the Moon, and sent Frank Borman, James Lovell, and William Anders into 10 orbits around the Moon in Apollo 8 in December 1968. In July 1969, Apollo 11 accomplished Kennedy's goal by landing Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin on the Moon 21 July and returning them safely on 24 July along with Command Module pilot Michael Collins. A total of six Apollo missions landed 12 men to walk on the Moon through 1972, half of which drove electric powered vehicles on the surface. The crew of Apollo 13, Lovell, Jack Swigert, and Fred Haise, survived a catastrophic in-flight spacecraft failure and returned to Earth safely without landing on the Moon.\nMeanwhile, the USSR secretly pursued human lunar orbiting and landing programs. They successfully developed the three-person Soyuz spacecraft for use in the lunar programs, but failed to develop the N1 rocket necessary for a human landing, and discontinued the lunar programs in 1974. On losing the Moon race, they concentrated on the development of space stations, using the Soyuz as a ferry to take cosmonauts to and from the stations. They started with a series of Salyut sortie stations from 1971 to 1986.\n\nAfter the Apollo program, the US launched the Skylab sortie space station in 1973, manning it for 171 days with three crews aboard Apollo spacecraft. President Richard Nixon and Soviet Premier Leonid Brezhnev negotiated an easing of relations known as détente, an easing of Cold War tensions. As part of this, they negotiated the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, in which an Apollo spacecraft carrying a special docking adapter module rendezvoused and docked with Soyuz 19 in 1975. The American and Russian crews shook hands in space, but the purpose of the flight was purely diplomatic and symbolic.\nNixon appointed his Vice President Spiro Agnew to head a Space Task Group in 1969 to recommend follow-on human spaceflight programs after Apollo. The group proposed an ambitious Space Transportation System based on a reusable Space Shuttle which consisted of a winged, internally fueled orbiter stage burning liquid hydrogen, launched by a similar, but larger kerosene-fueled booster stage, each equipped with airbreathing jet engines for powered return to a runway at the Kennedy Space Center launch site. Other components of the system included a permanent modular space station, reusable space tug and nuclear interplanetary ferry, leading to a human expedition to Mars as early as 1986, or as late as 2000, depending on the level of funding allocated. However, Nixon knew the American political climate would not support Congressional funding for such an ambition, and killed proposals for all but the Shuttle, possibly to be followed by the space station. Plans for the Shuttle were scaled back to reduce development risk, cost, and time, replacing the piloted flyback booster with two reusable solid rocket boosters, and the smaller orbiter would use an expendable external propellant tank to feed its hydrogen-fueled main engines. The orbiter would have to make unpowered landings.\nThe two nations continued to compete rather than cooperate in space, as the US turned to developing the Space Shuttle and planning the space station, dubbed \"Freedom\". \nThe USSR launched three Almaz military sortie stations from 1973 to 1977, disguised as Salyuts. They followed Salyut with the development of \"Mir\", the first modular, semi-permanent space station, the construction of which took place from 1986 to 1996. \"Mir\" orbited at an altitude of , at a 51.6° inclination. It was occupied for 4,592 days, and made a controlled reentry in 2001.\nThe Space Shuttle started flying in 1981, but the US Congress failed to approve sufficient funds to make \"Freedom\" a reality. A fleet of four shuttles was built: \"Columbia\", \"Challenger\", \"Discovery\", and \"Atlantis\". A fifth shuttle, \"Endeavour\", was built to replace \"Challenger\", which was destroyed in an accident during launch that killed 7 astronauts on 28 January 1986. Twenty-two Shuttle flights carried a European Space Agency sortie space station called Spacelab in the payload bay from 1983 to 1998.\n\nThe USSR copied the reusable Space Shuttle orbiter, which it called \"Buran\". It was designed to be launched into orbit by the expendable Energia rocket, and capable of robotic orbital flight and landing. Unlike the US Shuttle, \"Buran\" had no main rocket engines, but like the Shuttle used its orbital maneuvering engines to perform its final orbital insertion. A single unmanned orbital test flight was successfully made in November 1988. A second test flight was planned by 1993, but the program was cancelled due to lack of funding and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. Two more orbiters were never completed, and the first one was destroyed in a hangar roof collapse in May 2002.\n\nThe dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 brought an end to the Cold War and opened the door to true cooperation between the US and Russia. The Soviet Soyuz and Mir programs were taken over by the Russian Federal Space Agency, now known as the Roscosmos State Corporation. The Shuttle-Mir Program included American Space Shuttles visiting the \"Mir\" space station, Russian cosmonauts flying on the Shuttle, and an American astronaut flying aboard a Soyuz spacecraft for long-duration expeditions aboard \"Mir\".\n\nIn 1993, President Bill Clinton secured Russia's cooperation in converting the planned Space Station \"Freedom\" into the International Space Station (ISS). Construction of the station began in 1998. The station orbits at an altitude of and an inclination of 51.65°.\n\nThe Space Shuttle was retired in 2011 after 135 orbital flights, several of which helped assemble, supply, and crew the ISS. \"Columbia\" was destroyed in another accident during reentry, which killed 7 astronauts on 1 February 2003.\n\nAfter Russia's launch of Sputnik 1 in 1957, Chairman Mao Zedong intended to place a Chinese satellite in orbit by 1959 to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC), However, China did not successfully launch its first satellite until 24 April 1970. Mao and Premier Zhou Enlai decided on 14 July 1967, that the PRC should not be left behind, and started China's own human spaceflight program. The first attempt, the Shuguang spacecraft copied from the US Gemini, was cancelled on 13 May 1972.\nChina later designed the Shenzhou spacecraft resembling the Russian Soyuz, and became the third nation to achieve independent human spaceflight capability by launching Yang Liwei on a 21-hour flight aboard Shenzhou 5 on 15 October 2003. China launched the Tiangong-1 space station on 29 September 2011, and two sortie missions to it: Shenzhou 9 16–29 June 2012, with China's first female astronaut Liu Yang; and Shenzhou 10, 13–26 June 2013. The station was retired on 21 March 2016 and remains in a , 42.77° inclination orbit.\n\nThe European Space Agency began development in 1987 of the Hermes spaceplane, to be launched on the Ariane 5 expendable launch vehicle. The project was cancelled in 1992, when it became clear that neither cost nor performance goals could be achieved. No Hermes shuttles were ever built.\n\nJapan began development in the 1980s of the HOPE-X experimental spaceplane, to be launched on its H-IIA expendable launch vehicle. A string of failures in 1998 led to funding reduction, and the project's cancellation in 2003.\n\nUnder the Bush administration, the Constellation Program included plans for retiring the Shuttle program and replacing it with the capability for spaceflight beyond low Earth orbit. In the 2011 United States federal budget, the Obama administration cancelled Constellation for being over budget and behind schedule while not innovating and investing in critical new technologies. For beyond low Earth orbit human spaceflight NASA is developing the Orion spacecraft to be launched by the Space Launch System. Under the Commercial Crew Development plan, NASA will rely on transportation services provided by the private sector to reach low Earth orbit, such as SpaceX's Falcon 9/Dragon V2, Sierra Nevada Corporation's Dream Chaser, or Boeing's CST-100. The period between the retirement of the shuttle in 2011 and the initial operational capability of new systems in 2017, similar to the gap between the end of Apollo in 1975 and the first space shuttle flight in 1981, is referred to by a presidential Blue Ribbon Committee as the U.S. human spaceflight gap.\n\nSince the early 2000s, a variety of private spaceflight ventures have been undertaken. Several of the companies, including Blue Origin, SpaceX, Virgin Galactic, and Sierra Nevada have explicit plans to advance human spaceflight. , all four of those companies have development programs underway to fly commercial passengers.\n\nA commercial suborbital spacecraft aimed at the space tourism market is being developed by Virgin Galactic called SpaceshipTwo, and could reach space around 2018.\nBlue Origin has begun a multi-year test program of their New Shepard vehicle and carried out six successful uncrewed test flights in 2015–2016. Blue Origin plan to fly \"test passengers\" in Q2 2017, and initiate commercial flights in 2018.\n\nSpaceX and Boeing are both developing passenger-capable orbital space capsules as of 2015, planning to fly NASA astronauts to the International Space Station by 2018. SpaceX will be carrying passengers on Dragon 2 launched on a Falcon 9 launch vehicle. Boeing will be doing it with their CST-100 launched on a United Launch Alliance Atlas V launch vehicle.\nDevelopment funding for these orbital-capable technologies has been provided by a mix of government and private funds, with SpaceX providing a greater portion of total development funding for this human-carrying capability from private investment.\nThere have been no public announcements of commercial offerings for orbital flights from either company, although both companies are planning some flights with their own private, not NASA, astronauts on board.\n\nYuri Gagarin became the first human to orbit the Earth on April 12, 1961.\n\nAlan Shepard became the first American to reach space on Mercury-Redstone 3 on May 5, 1961.\n\nJohn Glenn became the first American to orbit the Earth on February 20, 1962.\n\nValentina Tereshkova became the first woman to orbit the Earth on June 16, 1963.\n\nJoseph A. Walker became the first human to pilot a spaceplane, the X-15 Flight 90, into space on July 19, 1963.\n\nAlexey Leonov became the first human to leave a spacecraft in orbit on March 18, 1965.\n\nFrank Borman, Jim Lovell, and William Anders became the first humans to travel beyond low Earth orbit (LEO) Dec 21–27, 1968, when the Apollo 8 mission took them to 10 orbits around the Moon and back.\n\nNeil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin became the first humans to land on the Moon on July 20, 1969.\n\nSvetlana Savitskaya became the first woman to walk in space on July 25, 1984.\n\nSally Ride became the first American woman in space in 1983. Eileen Collins was the first female shuttle pilot, and with shuttle mission STS-93 in 1999 she became the first woman to command a U.S. spacecraft.\n\nThe longest single human spaceflight is that of Valeri Polyakov, who left Earth on 8 January 1994, and did not return until 22 March 1995 (a total of 437 days 17 h 58 min 16 s). Sergei Krikalyov has spent the most time of anyone in space, 803 days, 9 hours, and 39 minutes altogether. The longest period of continuous human presence in space is on the International Space Station, exceeding the previous record of almost 10 years (or 3,634 days) held by Mir, spanning the launch of Soyuz TM-8 on 5 September 1989 to the landing of Soyuz TM-29 on 28 August 1999.\n\nYang Liwei became the first human to orbit the Earth as part of the Chinese manned space program on October 15, 2003.\n\nFor many years, only the USSR (later Russia) and the United States had their own astronauts. Citizens of other nations flew in space, beginning with the flight of Vladimir Remek, a Czech, on a Soviet spacecraft on 2 March 1978, in the Interkosmos programme. , citizens from 38 nations (including space tourists) have flown in space aboard Soviet, American, Russian, and Chinese spacecraft.\n\nHuman spaceflight programs have been conducted by the former Soviet Union and current Russian Federation, the United States, the People's Republic of China and by private spaceflight company Scaled Composites.\nSpace vehicles are spacecraft used for transportation between the Earth's surface and outer space, or between locations in outer space. The following space vehicles and spaceports are currently used for launching human spaceflights:\n\nThe following space stations are currently maintained in Earth orbit for human occupation:\n\nNumerous private companies attempted human spaceflight programs in an effort to win the $10 million Ansari X Prize. The first private human spaceflight took place on 21 June 2004, when SpaceShipOne conducted a suborbital flight. SpaceShipOne captured the prize on 4 October 2004, when it accomplished two consecutive flights within one week. SpaceShipTwo, launching from the carrier aircraft White Knight Two, is planned to conduct regular suborbital space tourism.\n\nMost of the time, the only humans in space are those aboard the ISS, whose crew of six spends up to six months at a time in low Earth orbit.\n\nNASA and ESA use the term \"human spaceflight\" to refer to their programs of launching people into space. These endeavors have also been referred to as \"manned space missions,\" though because of gender specificity this is no longer official parlance according to NASA style guides.\n\nIndia has declared it will send humans to space on its orbital vehicle \"Gaganyaan\" by 2022. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) began work on this project in 2006. The objective is to carry a crew of two to low Earth orbit (LEO) and return them safely for a water-landing at a predefined landing zone. The program is proposed to be implemented in defined phases. Currently, the activities are progressing with a focus on the development of critical technologies for subsystems such as the Crew Module (CM), Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS), Crew Escape System, etc. The department has initiated activities to study technical and managerial issues related to crewed missions. The program envisages the development of a fully autonomous orbital vehicle carrying 2 or 3 crew members to about 300 km low Earth orbit and their safe return.\n\nNASA is developing a plan to land humans on Mars by the 2030s. The first step in this mission begins sometime during 2020, when NASA plans to send an uncrewed craft into deep space to retrieve an asteroid. The asteroid will be pushed into the moon’s orbit, and studied by astronauts aboard Orion, NASA’s first human spacecraft in a generation. Orion’s crew will return to Earth with samples of the asteroid and their collected data. In addition to broadening America’s space capabilities, this mission will test newly developed technology, such as solar electric propulsion, which uses solar arrays for energy and requires ten times less propellant than the conventional chemical counterpart used for powering space shuttles to orbit.\n\nSeveral other countries and space agencies have announced and begun human spaceflight programs by their own technology, Japan (JAXA), Iran (ISA) and Malaysia (MNSA).\n\nA number of spacecraft have been proposed over the decades that might facilitate spaceliner passenger travel. Somewhat analogous to travel by airliner after the middle of the 20th century, these vehicles are proposed to transport a large number of passengers to destinations in space, or to destinations on Earth which travel through space. To date, none of these concepts have been built, although a few vehicles that carry fewer than 10 persons are currently in the flight testing phase of their development process.\n\nOne large spaceliner concept currently in early development is the SpaceX BFR which, in addition to replacing the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launch vehicles in the legacy Earth-orbit market after 2020, has been proposed by SpaceX for long-distance commercial travel on Earth. This is to transport people on point-to-point suborbital flights between two points on Earth in under one hour, also known as \"Earth-to-Earth,\" and carrying 100+ passengers.\n\nSmall spaceplane or small capsule suborbital spacecraft have been under development for the past decade or so and, , at least one of each type are under development. Both Virgin Galactic and Blue Origin are in active development, with the SpaceShipTwo spaceplane and the New Shepard capsule, respectively. Both would carry approximately a half-dozen passengers up to space for a brief time of zero gravity before returning to the same location from where the trip began. XCOR Aerospace had been developing the Lynx single-passenger spaceplane since the 2000s but development was halted in 2017.\n\nThere are two main sources of hazard in space flight: those due to the \"environment\" of space which make it hostile to the human body, and the potential for \"mechanical\" malfunctions of the equipment required to accomplish space flight.\n\nPlanners of human spaceflight missions face a number of safety concerns.\n\nThe immediate needs for breathable air and drinkable water are addressed by the life support system of the spacecraft.\n\nMedical consequences such as possible blindness and bone loss have been associated with human space flight.\n\nOn 31 December 2012, a NASA-supported study reported that spaceflight may harm the brain of astronauts and accelerate the onset of Alzheimer's disease.\n\nIn October 2015, the NASA Office of Inspector General issued a health hazards report related to space exploration, including a human mission to Mars.\n\nOn 2 November 2017, scientists reported that significant changes in the position and structure of the brain have been found in astronauts who have taken trips in space, based on MRI studies. Astronauts who took longer space trips were associated with greater brain changes.\n\nResearchers in 2018 reported, after detecting the presence on the International Space Station (ISS) of five \"Enterobacter bugandensis\" bacterial strains, none pathogenic to humans, that microorganisms on ISS should be carefully monitored to continue assuring a medically healthy environment for astronauts.\n\nMedical data from astronauts in low Earth orbits for long periods, dating back to the 1970s, show several adverse effects of a microgravity environment: loss of bone density, decreased muscle strength and endurance, postural instability, and reductions in aerobic capacity. Over time these deconditioning effects can impair astronauts’ performance or increase their risk of injury.\n\nIn a weightless environment, astronauts put almost no weight on the back muscles or leg muscles used for standing up, which causes them to weaken and get smaller. Astronauts can lose up to twenty per cent of their muscle mass on spaceflights lasting five to eleven days. The consequent loss of strength could be a serious problem in case of a landing emergency. Upon return to Earth from long-duration flights, astronauts are considerably weakened, and are not allowed to drive a car for twenty-one days.\n\nAstronauts experiencing weightlessness will often lose their orientation, get motion sickness, and lose their sense of direction as their bodies try to get used to a weightless environment. When they get back to Earth, or any other mass with gravity, they have to readjust to the gravity and may have problems standing up, focusing their gaze, walking and turning. Importantly, those body motor disturbances after changing from different gravities only get worse the longer the exposure to little gravity. These changes will affect operational activities including approach and landing, docking, remote manipulation, and emergencies that may happen while landing. This can be a major roadblock to mission success.\n\nIn addition, after long space flight missions, male astronauts may experience severe eyesight problems. Such eyesight problems may be a major concern for future deep space flight missions, including a crewed mission to the planet Mars.\n\nWithout proper shielding, the crews of missions beyond low Earth orbit (LEO) might be at risk from high-energy protons emitted by solar flares. Lawrence Townsend of the University of Tennessee and others have studied the most powerful solar flare ever recorded. That flare was seen by the British astronomer Richard Carrington in September 1859. Radiation doses astronauts would receive from a Carrington-type flare could cause acute radiation sickness and possibly even death.\n\nAnother type of radiation, galactic cosmic rays, presents further challenges to human spaceflight beyond low Earth orbit.\n\nThere is also some scientific concern that extended spaceflight might slow down the body’s ability to protect itself against diseases. Some of the problems are a weakened immune system and the activation of dormant viruses in the body. Radiation can cause both short and long term consequences to the bone marrow stem cells which create the blood and immune systems. Because the interior of a spacecraft is so small, a weakened immune system and more active viruses in the body can lead to a fast spread of infection.\n\nDuring long missions, astronauts are isolated and confined into small spaces. Depression, cabin fever and other psychological problems may impact the crew's safety and mission success.\n\nAstronauts may not be able to quickly return to Earth or receive medical supplies, equipment or personnel if a medical emergency occurs. The astronauts may have to rely for long periods on their limited existing resources and medical advice from the ground.\n\nSpace flight requires much higher velocities than ground or air transportation, which in turn requires the use of high energy density propellants for launch, and the dissipation of large amounts of energy, usually as heat, for safe reentry through the Earth's atmosphere.\n\nSince rockets carry the potential for fire or explosive destruction, space capsules generally employ some sort of launch escape system, consisting either of a tower-mounted solid fuel rocket to quickly carry the capsule away from the launch vehicle (employed on Mercury, Apollo, and Soyuz), or else ejection seats (employed on Vostok and Gemini) to carry astronauts out of the capsule and away for individual parachute landing. The escape tower is discarded at some point before the launch is complete, at a point where an abort can be performed using the spacecraft's engines.\n\nSuch a system is not always practical for multiple crew member vehicles (particularly spaceplanes), depending on location of egress hatch(es). When the single-hatch Vostok capsule was modified to become the 2 or 3-person Voskhod, the single-cosmonaut ejection seat could not be used, and no escape tower system was added. The two Voskhod flights in 1964 and 1965 avoided launch mishaps. The Space Shuttle carried ejection seats and escape hatches for its pilot and copilot in early flights, but these could not be used for passengers who sat below the flight deck on later flights, and so were discontinued.\n\nThere have only been two in-flight launch aborts of a crewed flight. The first occurred on Soyuz 18a on 5 April 1975. The abort occurred after the launch escape system had been jettisoned, when the launch vehicle's spent second stage failed to separate before the third stage ignited. The vehicle strayed off course, and the crew separated the spacecraft and fired its engines to pull it away from the errant rocket. Both cosmonauts landed safely. The second occurred on 11 October 2018 with the launch of Soyuz MS-10. Again, both crew members survived. \n\nIn the only use of a launch escape system on a crewed flight, the planned Soyuz T-10a launch on 26 September 1983 was aborted by a launch vehicle fire 90 seconds before liftoff. Both cosmonauts aboard landed safely.\n\nThe only crew fatality during launch occurred on 28 January 1986, when the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" broke apart 73 seconds after liftoff, due to failure of a solid rocket booster seal which caused separation of the booster and failure of the external fuel tank, resulting in explosion of the fuel. All seven crew members were killed.\n\nThe single pilot of Soyuz 1, Vladimir Komarov was killed when his capsule's parachutes failed during an emergency landing on 24 April 1967, causing the capsule to crash.\n\nThe crew of seven aboard the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" were killed on reentry after completing a successful mission in space on 1 February 2003. A wing leading edge reinforced carbon-carbon heat shield had been damaged by a piece of frozen external tank foam insulation which broke off and struck the wing during launch. Hot reentry gasses entered and destroyed the wing structure, leading to breakup of the orbiter vehicle.\n\nThere are two basic choices for an artificial atmosphere: either an Earth-like mixture of oxygen in an inert gas such as nitrogen or helium, or pure oxygen, which can be used at lower than standard atmospheric pressure. A nitrogen-oxygen mixture is used in the International Space Station and Soyuz spacecraft, while low-pressure pure oxygen is commonly used in space suits for extravehicular activity.\n\nUse of a gas mixture carries risk of decompression sickness (commonly known as \"the bends\") when transitioning to or from the pure oxygen space suit environment. There have also been instances of injury and fatalities caused by suffocation in the presence of too much nitrogen and not enough oxygen.\n\nA pure oxygen atmosphere carries risk of fire. The original design of the Apollo spacecraft used pure oxygen at greater than atmospheric pressure prior to launch. An electrical fire started in the cabin of Apollo 1 during a ground test at Cape Kennedy Air Force Station Launch Complex 34 on 27 January 1967, and spread rapidly. The high pressure (increased even higher by the fire) prevented removal of the plug door hatch cover in time to rescue the crew. All three, Gus Grissom, Ed White, and Roger Chaffee, were killed. This led NASA to use a nitrogen/oxygen atmosphere before launch, and low pressure pure oxygen only in space.\n\nThe March 1966 Gemini 8 mission was aborted in orbit when an attitude control system thruster stuck in the on position, sending the craft into a dangerous spin which threatened the lives of Neil Armstrong and David Scott. Armstrong had to shut the control system off and use the reentry control system to stop the spin. The craft made an emergency reentry and the astronauts landed safely. The most probable cause was determined to be an electrical short due to a static electricity discharge, which caused the thruster to remain powered even when switched off. The control system was modified to put each thruster on its own isolated circuit.\n\nThe third lunar landing expedition Apollo 13 in April 1970, was aborted and the lives of the crew, James Lovell, Jack Swigert and Fred Haise, were threatened by failure of a cryogenic liquid oxygen tank en route to the Moon. The tank burst when electrical power was applied to internal stirring fans in the tank, causing the immediate loss of all of its contents, and also damaging the second tank, causing the loss of its remaining oxygen in a span of 130 minutes. This in turn caused loss of electrical power provided by fuel cells to the command spacecraft. The crew managed to return to Earth safely by using the lunar landing craft as a \"life boat\". The tank failure was determined to be caused by two mistakes. The tank's drain fitting had been damaged when it was dropped during factory testing. This necessitated use of its internal heaters to boil out the oxygen after a pre-launch test, which in turn damaged the fan wiring's electrical insulation, because the thermostats on the heaters did not meet the required voltage rating due to a vendor miscommunication.\n\nThe crew of Soyuz 11 were killed on June 30, 1971 by a combination of mechanical malfunctions: they were asphyxiated due to cabin decompression following separation of their descent capsule from the service module. A cabin ventilation valve had been jolted open at an altitude of by the stronger than expected shock of explosive separation bolts which were designed to fire sequentially, but in fact had fired simultaneously. The loss of pressure became fatal within about 30 seconds.\n\n, 22 crew members have died in accidents aboard spacecraft. Over 100 others have died in accidents during activity directly related to spaceflight or testing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8467808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8467808", "title": "Hyman Abrams", "text": "Hyman Abrams\n\nHyman Abrams was a Boston mobster and high-ranking member under Charles \"King\" Solomon during Prohibition. He and other members of Solomon's organization took over Boston's criminal operations for themselves following Solomon's murder in 1933. He would later become involved in financing syndicate controlled casinos with Meyer Lansky, specifically the \"Flamingo\" and later the \"Sands\" with Carl Cohen and Jack Entratter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202048", "title": "Iraq Body Count project", "text": "Iraq Body Count project\n\nIraq Body Count project (IBC) is a web-based effort to record civilian deaths resulting from the US-led 2003 invasion of Iraq. Included are deaths attributable to coalition and insurgent military action, sectarian violence and criminal violence, which refers to excess civilian deaths caused by criminal action resulting from the breakdown in law and order which followed the coalition invasion. As of December 2012, the IBC has recorded 110,937–121,227 civilian deaths. The IBC has a media-centered approach to counting and documenting the deaths. Other sources have provided differing estimates of deaths, some much higher. See Casualties of the Iraq War.\n\nThe project uses reports from English-language news media (including Arabic media translated into English), NGO-based reports, and official records that have been released into the public sphere to compile a running total. On its database page the IBC states: \"Gaps in recording and reporting suggest that even our highest totals to date may be missing many civilian deaths from violence.\" The group is staffed by volunteers consisting mainly of academics and activists based in the UK and the US. The project was founded by John Sloboda and Hamit Dardagan.\n\nAccording to Jonathan Steele, writing in \"The Guardian\", IBC \"is widely considered as the most reliable database of Iraqi civilian deaths\". But some researchers regard it at best as a floor, or baseline for mortality, and that it underestimates actual mortality by potentially several factors.\n\nThe IBC overview page states:\n\"This is an ongoing human security project which maintains and updates the world's only independent and comprehensive public database of media-reported civilian deaths in Iraq that have resulted from the 2003 military intervention by the USA and its allies. The count includes civilian deaths caused by coalition military action and by military or paramilitary responses to the coalition presence (e.g. insurgent and terrorist attacks). It also includes excess civilian deaths caused by criminal action resulting from the breakdown in law and order which followed the coalition invasion.\"\nThe project quotes the top US general in Iraq, Tommy Franks, as saying \"We don't do body counts\". The quotation was from a discussion of the Operation Anaconda in Afghanistan and was referring to counts of enemy soldiers killed, in the context of using enemy body counts as a measure of military success. The website, which omits the context of the quote, could be said to conflate the meaning of \"enemy body count\" with \"civilian deaths caused\" and to imply that the US is not interested in the number of civilian deaths its military operations cause.\n\nThe IBC overview page states: \"Deaths in the database are derived from a comprehensive survey of commercial media and NGO-based reports, along with official records that have been released into the public sphere. Reports range from specific, incident based accounts to figures from hospitals, morgues, and other documentary data-gathering agencies.\"\n\nProject volunteers sample news stories to extract minimum and maximum numbers of civilian casualties. Each incident reported at least by two independent news sources is included in the Iraq Body Count database. In December 2007, IBC announced that they would begin to include deaths reported by one source, and that the number of deaths provided by such reports would be openly tracked on its database page. Between 3.3 and 3.5 percent of deaths recorded by IBC are currently listed on the database page as derived from a single source.\n\nIBC is purely a civilian count. IBC defines \"civilian\" to exclude Iraqi soldiers, insurgents, suicide bombers or any others directly engaged in war-related violence. A \"min\" and \"max\" figure are used where reports differ on the numbers killed, or where the civilian status of the dead is uncertain.\n\nIBC is not an \"estimate\" of total civilian deaths based on projections or other forms of extrapolation. It is a compilation of documented deaths, as reported by English-language media worldwide. See the sources section farther down for more info on the media and their sources.\n\nSome have suggested bias of sources could affect the count. If a number is quoted from an anti-coalition source, and the Allies fail to give a sufficiently specific alternate number, the anti-coalition figure is entered into IBC's database as both a maximum and a minimum. The same works vice versa. The project argues that these potential over- and undercounts by different media sources would tend to balance out.\n\nIBC's online database shows the newspaper, magazine or website where each number is reported, and the date on which it was reported. However, this has been criticized as insufficient because it typically does not list the original sources for the information: that is, the NGO, journalist or government responsible for the number presented. Hence, any inherent bias due to the lack of reliable reports from independent or Allied sources is not readily available to the reader.\n\nThe IBC overview page states that its sources include \"public domain newsgathering agencies with web access\". They include sources that are from sites updated at least once a day, are \"separately archived on the site, with a unique URL\", are \"widely cited or referenced by other sources\", are in English, and have \"fully public (preferably free) web-access\"\n\nPrimary sources used by the media are listed in the 2003 to 2005 IBC report. The sources are followed by the number of deaths reported from that source.\n\n\nThe IBC overview page states: \"Results and totals are continually updated and made immediately available here and on various IBC web counters which may be freely displayed on any website or homepage, where they are automatically updated without further intervention.\"\n\nDeaths in the Iraq war (cumulative):\n\nThe figures above are those that appeared in real time on the IBC counters on or around those dates. However, those in the first line were increased radically in the following days and weeks. IBC's current Max figure for the entire invasion phase, up to 30 April 2003, now stands at 7,299. Because IBC performs analyses (e.g., accounts for multiple reports, eliminates overlaps, etc.), there is always a delay between the date on which incidents occur and the addition of their numbers to the IBC database. Another factor is that some reports emerge weeks or even months later - for instance the emergence of Baghdad city morgue reports for 2005 in early 2006. The 6 December line above was taken from the IBC total as it stood on 6 December 2005, but the emergence of the morgue figures later increased IBC's figures for that period to 31,818–35,747. The majority of civilians death from 2003 to 2011 were attributed to unknown actors.\n\nThe Iraq Body Count project states for the week ending 31 December 2006: \"It was a truly violent year, as around 24,000 civilians lost their lives in Iraq. This was a massive rise in violence: 14,000 had been killed in 2005, 10,500 in 2004 and just under 12,000 in 2003 (7,000 of them killed during the actual war, while only 5,000 killed during the 'peace' that followed in May 2003). In December 2006 alone around 2,800 civilians were reported killed. This week there were over 560 civilian deaths reported.\"\n\nFrom the above quote here are IBC yearly death totals (not counting the initial 7000 invasion deaths):\n\n\nThe IBC released a report detailing the civilian deaths it had recorded between 20 March 2003 and 19 March 2005. From page 26: \"The analyses in this dossier cover the first two years of the military intervention in Iraq from 20 March 2003 to 19 March 2005, and are based on data which was available by 14 June 2005.\"\n\nThe report says the US and its allies were responsible for the largest share (37%) of the 24,865 deaths. The remaining deaths were attributed to anti-occupation forces (9%), crime (36%), and unknown agents (11%).\n\nWho did the killing?\n\n\nWho was killed?\n\n\nWhen did they die?\n\n\nWhat was the most lethal weaponry?\n\n\nHow many were injured?\n\n\nIn October 2010, the group \"WikiLeaks\" released the Iraq War Logs, a set of nearly 400,000 classified US military documents on the Iraq war. IBC was among several media organizations and NGO's given pre-release access to the documents, and IBC co-founder John Sloboda delivered a speech at the press conference for the release by \"WikiLeaks\".\n\nIBC published three pieces on their website detailing their analysis of the war logs. Among the main findings were that the war logs, \"contain an estimated 15,000 previously unknown civilian deaths,\" and that addition of the new material would suggest that, \"over 150,000 violent deaths have been recorded since March 2003, with more than 122,000 (80%) of them civilian.\"\n\nBetween 2009 and 2011, IBC published three papers in peer reviewed academic journals, co-authored with researchers from King's College London and Royal Holloway, University of London. Each paper uses IBC data to evaluate different aspects of civilian casualties during the war.\n\nThe first paper, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in April, 2009, analyses civilian deaths between 2003 and 2008 according to weapon types used. Among the findings were that, \"execution after abduction or capture was the single most common form of death overall,\" and that, \"events involving air attacks and mortar fire were the most dangerous\" to Iraqi females and children.\n\nThe second paper, published in \"PLoS Medicine\" in February, 2011, analyses civilian deaths between 2003 and 2008 according to perpetrator, weapon, time, and location. The paper found that most deaths during the period were, \"inflicted by unknown perpetrators, primarily through extrajudicial executions.\" The paper also utilized what the authors refer to as the \"Dirty War Index\" which evaluates the behavior of different perpetrators or weapon types in terms of the proportion of women and children killed, with higher DWI ratios suggesting tactics or weapons that are more indiscriminate toward civilians. The study found that unknown perpetrators firing mortars had the highest DWI ratio, followed by Coalition Forces air attacks, leading the authors to advise that such weapons should not be used in populated areas.\n\nThe third paper, published in September, 2011, in a special edition of \"The Lancet\" for the 10 year anniversary of the September 11 attacks of 2001, focused on casualties of both civilians and Coalition soldiers specifically by suicide bomb attacks in Iraq between 2003 and 2010. This paper found that there had been at least 12,284 Iraqi civilians and 200 Coalition soldiers killed in at least 1,003 suicide bombings during the period. The study also found that these bombings had \"injured no fewer than 30,644 Iraqi civilians,\" and that, \"children are less likely to survive their suicide bomb injuries than adults.\"\n\nThe IBC has received criticism from many sides. Some critics have focused on potential bias of sources. Others have raised concerns about the difficulty of distinguishing civilians from combatants. Others have criticized it for over or undercounting.\n\nSome critics, often on the political right, claimed that the IBC numbers were an overcount, and that the numbers were suspect due to the antiwar bias of the IBC members. For example; the 26 July 2005 \"National Review\" article, \"Bad Counts. An unquestioning media.\"\n\nOthers, often on the political left, criticized media and government willingness to quote IBC figures more approvingly than the much higher estimate coming from the Lancet study that came out in October 2004.\n\nJournalists included Lila Guterman, Andrew Cockburn, John Pilger, and George Monbiot\n\nIn a 27 January 2005 article in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" Lila Guterman wrote:\n\nThe Lancet released the paper on October 29, the Friday before the election, when many reporters were busy with political coverage. That day, the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Tribune each dedicated only about 400 words to the study and placed the articles inside their front sections, on Pages A4 and A11, respectively. (The news media in Europe gave the study much more play; many newspapers put articles about it on their front pages.) In a short article about the study on Page A8, The New York Times noted that the Iraq Body Count, a project to tally civilian deaths reported in the news media, had put the maximum death toll at around 17,000. The new study, the article said, 'is certain to generate intense controversy.' But the Times has not published any further news articles about the paper.\n\nThis view of IBC was based on the belief that IBC figures are extremely low due to pro-US media bias and inadequate reporting due to its heavy (though not exclusive) reliance on Western media sources, which has led some of these critics to claim IBC should be called the \"Iraq Western Media Body Count\". These biases and inadequacies, they claim, mean IBC's count is low by up to a factor of 10, and that it specifically minimizes the proportion of deaths caused by US forces.\n\nStephen Soldz wrote a 5 February 2006 article titled \"When Promoting Truth Obscures the Truth: More on Iraqi Body Count and Iraqi Deaths\". It stated: \"Of course, in conditions of active rebellion, the safer areas accessible to Western reporters are likely to be those under US/Coalition control, where deaths are, in turn, likely to be due to insurgent attacks. Areas of insurgent control, which are likely to be subject to US and Iraqi government attack, for example most of Anbar province, are simply off-limits to these reporters. Thus, the realities of reporting imply that reporters will be witness to a larger fraction of deaths due to insurgents and a lesser proportion of deaths due to US and Iraqi government forces.\"\n\nA further claim has been that IBC does little or nothing to correct misuse of their figures by public officials or media organizations. It is claimed that the media often misuse IBC's estimate of the total number dead. It is also claimed that the media use the IBC's estimate in order to ignore or downplay the October 2004 excess mortality study published in the Lancet Medical Journal, which estimated a far higher figure. Critics of IBC argue that the Lancet study is the most accurate estimate so far and is more reliable than IBC's estimate.\n\nOther criticism of various kinds came from journalists Stephen Soldz, Dahr Jamail, and Jeff Pflueger\n\nIn April 2006, IBC published a lengthy response to their critics entitled \"Speculation is no substitute: a defence of Iraq Body Count\". In their reply, IBC argues that their critics have several key facts wrong. IBC argues that while their estimate is likely to be below the full toll, their critics' errors have led the critics to exaggerate the likely extent of such an undercount. Finally, IBC argues, the available evidence does not support their critics' claims of a pro-US bias infecting the IBC database.\n\nThe IBC report for March 2003 to March 2005 states: \"We have not made use of Arabic or other non English language sources, except where these have been published in English. The reasons are pragmatic. We consider fluency in the language of the published report to be a key requirement for accurate analysis, and English is the only language in which all team members are fluent. It is possible that our count has excluded some victims as a result.\"\n\nStephen Soldz, who runs the website \"Iraq Occupation and Resistance Report\", writes in a 5 February 2006 \"ZNet\" article (in reference to the 2003-2005 IBC report): \"Given, as indicated in that report, that ten media outlets provided over half the IBC reports and three agencies [Associated Press, Agence France Presse, and Reuters] provided over a third of the reports, there is simply no reason to believe that even a large fraction of Iraqi civilian combat-related deaths are ever reported in the Western media, much less, have the two independent reports necessary to be recorded in the IBC database. Do these few agencies really have enough Iraqi reporters on retainer to cover the country? Are these reporters really able comprehensively to cover deaths in insurgent-held parts of Iraq? How likely is it that two reporters from distinct media outlets are going to be present at a given site where deaths occur? How many of the thousands of US bombings have been investigated by any reporter, Western or Iraqi? Simply to state these questions is to emphasize the fragmentary nature of the reporting that occurs and thus the limitations of the IBC database.\"\n\nIn a 28 April 2006 BBC \"Newsnight\" interview the IBC project's co-founder John Sloboda, in response to these and similar arguments, has said: \"we have never had over the entire three years, anyone show us an Arabic source that reports deaths that we haven't already got. In three years. In thousands of incidents. There are organisations that translate Arabic reports into English, and we see their data.\"\n\nIBC monitors many Arabic sources that either publish in English as well as Arabic, or are translated by other sources. Some of these include:\n\nAl Arabiya TV, Al-Furat, Al-Ittihad, Al Jazeera (Web), Al Jazeera TV, Al Sharqiyah TV, Al-Taakhi, Al-Bawaba, Arab News, Arabic News, Asharq Al Awsat, As-Sabah, Arab Times, Bahrain News Agency, Bahrain Times.\n\nThe IBC acknowledges on its website that its count is bound to be low due to limitations in reporting stating; \"many if not most civilian casualties will go unreported by the media. That is the sad nature of war.\" IBC's critics claim, though, that the IBC does not do enough to indicate what they believe is the full extent of the undercounting. IBC has directly disputed these claims in a lengthy document on its website.\n\nOne criticism of IBC's method, from MIT's John Tirman, a principal research scientist, is that the \"surveillance instrument\" - the news media - is changing all the time: media organizations add or (more likely) subtract reporters from the field, which was happening in Iraq; reporters were largely confined to Baghdad during the worst violence; and reporters tended to write about spectacular events, like car bombs, when much of the violence was in the form of revenge killings throughout Iraq. \"As a result, this technique of totaling up the dead is incapable of accounting for the deaths that were not being recorded, whether by the English-language news media or the chaotic health care system.\" IBC itself radically changed its method in the middle of the war, switching from two references to one reference in the news media.\n\nThe October 2006 \"Lancet\" study states: \"Aside from Bosnia, we can find no conflict situation where passive surveillance recorded more than 20% of the deaths measured by population-based methods.\"\n\nIn an April 2006 article the IBC had described an example comparing itself to the 2004 United Nations Development Programme Iraq Living Conditions Survey (ILCS). \"The Lancet\" report uses the population estimates drawn from the ILCS study, while not mentioning its estimate of war-related deaths. IBC contends that ILCS is a more reliable indicator of violent deaths than the \"Lancet\" study, and suggests a much lower number than the \"Lancet\" study.\n\nHowever, a supplement to the \"Lancet\" study published separately by its authors, as well as subsequent interviews with one of Lancet's authors have disputed the methodology and results of the ILCS study. On the other hand, Jon Pedersen, author of the ILCS study, has disputed the methodology and results of the Lancet study. For more info on this controversy see the sections titled \"Criticisms\" and \"UNDP ILCS study compared to Lancet study\" in Lancet surveys of Iraq War casualties.\n\nThe 2006 Lancet study also states: \"In several outbreaks, disease and death recorded by facility-based methods underestimated events by a factor of ten or more when compared with population-based estimates. Between 1960 and 1990, newspaper accounts of political deaths in Guatemala correctly reported over 50% of deaths in years of low violence but less than 5% in years of highest violence.\"\n\n\"The Lancet\" reference used is to Patrick Ball, Paul Kobrak, and Herbert F. Spirer and their 1999 book, \"State Violence in Guatemala, 1960-1996: A Quantitative Reflection\". From the introduction: \"The CIIDH database consists of cases culled from direct testimonies and documentary and press sources.\"\n\nChapter 10 elaborates, saying that \"In the CIIDH project, participating popular organizations collected many of the testimonies long after the time of the killings, when people were less clear about details, especially the identities of all the victims.\" And says, \"Typically, during the collection of testimonies, a surviving witness might provide the names of one or two victims, perhaps close relatives, while estimating the number of other neighbors in the community without giving their names.\"\n\nThey report in chapter 7:\n\nFigure 7.1 shows that in the CIIDH database, most of the information for human rights violations prior to 1977 comes from press sources. ... Approximately 10,890 cases were coded from the newspapers. Sixty-three percent of the press cases were taken from Prensa Libre, 10 percent from El Gráfico, 8 percent from La Hora and El Impacto respectively, and 6 percent from El Imparcial. The remaining 5 percent is made up by eight other newspapers.\n\nBut also in chapter 7 they reported that in later, more violent years:\n\nWhen the level of violence increased dramatically in the late 1970s and early 1980s, numbers of reported violations in the press stayed very low. In 1981, one of the worst years of state violence, the numbers fall towards zero. The press reported almost none of the rural violence.\n\nThere is a list of figures, tables, and charts in the book that can be used to calculate what percentage of their cases of killings by state forces were reported by 13 Guatemalan newspapers for each year when compared to the testimonies of witnesses (as previously described from chapter 10).\n\nIn a 7 November 2004 press release concerning the October 2004 \"Lancet\" study the IBC states: \"We have always been quite explicit that our own total is certain to be an underestimate of the true position, because of gaps in reporting or recording\".\n\nOne of the sources used by the media is morgues. Only the central Baghdad area morgue has released figures consistently. While that is the largest morgue in Iraq and in what is often claimed to be the most consistently violent area, the absence of comprehensive morgue figures elsewhere leads to undercounting. IBC makes it clear that, due to these issues, its count will almost certainly be below the full toll in its 'Quick FAQ' on its homepage.\n\nQuote from an IBC note: \"The Iraq Body Count (IBC) estimate for x350, like that for x334, was made possible by examination of the detailed data supplied to the Associated Press (AP) by the morgues surveyed in AP's 23 May 2004 survey of Iraqi morgues.\"\n\nThat 23 May 2004 Associated Press article points out the lack of morgue data from many areas of Iraq. Also, it states: \"The [Baghdad] figure does not include most people killed in big terrorist bombings, Hassan said. The cause of death in such cases is obvious so bodies are usually not taken to the morgue, but given directly to victims' families. Also, the bodies of killed fighters from groups like the al-Mahdi Army are rarely taken to morgues.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37985587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37985587", "title": "J. Campbell (footballer)", "text": "J. Campbell (footballer)\n\nJ. Campbell was an English footballer who played in the Football League for Burnley.\n"}
{"id": "38676937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38676937", "title": "Jack Bryan (footballer)", "text": "Jack Bryan (footballer)\n\nJohn Joseph \"Jack\" Bryan (22 August 1897 – 1978) was an English professional footballer who made 75 appearances in the Football League for Lincoln City. He played as a right half.\n\nBryan was born in Langwith, Nottinghamshire. He played local football in the Nottinghamshire area before joining Lincoln City towards the end of the First World War. He played in all but three senior matches in the first post-war season, as Lincoln finished 21st in the Second Division and failed to gain re-election, and missed only two as they won the Midland League title and returned to the Football League as founder members of the Third Division North. He again played all but two matches in the 1921–22 season, one of which was in goal after Robert Bainbridge missed his train to the away game at Durham City. At the end of the season he moved into the Midland League with Mansfield Town, and later played for Worksop Town and Mexborough.\n"}
{"id": "2053441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053441", "title": "John Hoagland", "text": "John Hoagland\n\nJohn Hoagland (June 15, 1947 – March 16, 1984), an experienced American photojournalist and war correspondent for \"Newsweek\" from San Diego, California, who was covering the Salvadoran Civil War in El Salvador at the time he was killed. He had covered other conflicts, including those in Nicaragua and Lebanon.\n\nJohn Hoagland was born in San Diego, California to Helen and Al Hoagland in 1947. Hoagland was the oldest of their five children. The family was native to San Diego, where John attended Helix High School and remained for college in 1965 college at the University of California, San Diego in 1965. Hoagland studied under a world renowned scholar and author, Herbert Marcuse, who wrote \"Eros and Civilization\" along with \"One Dimensional Man\". Marcuse, alongside another classmate of Hoagland's, Angela Davis, influenced Hoagland to become a journalist. During the Vietnam War, he applied for and received conscientious objector status. In 1970, Hoagland was at a massive anti-war movement in downtown Los Angeles, when the journalist Ruben Salazar was shot and killed by police. Hoagland was arrested along with his friends and his video equipment confiscated. He divorced and took his son Eros with him.\n\nHoagland's son, Eros Hoagland, is also a photographer who currently works in conflict zones around the globe.\n\nJohn Hoagland published photos for the Associated Press, United Press International, the Gamma Liaison news photography agency and \"Newsweek\" magazine\n\nHoagland began his career just by joining anti-war protests. Almost a year after his son, Eros Hoagland, was born he went from passive protesting to active protesting. John worked a steel welder in San Francisco, but also, he was an amateur photographer. He took photographs of what he found interesting or, in some cases, corrupt. Hoagland, almost 30 years old now, went south, to Nicaragua to take photos of the Nicaraguan Revolution for \"Newsweek\". He wanted to make a difference and get the story of this country out into the public to help the people who could not escape. After the killing of another reporter named Bill Stewart, Hoagland was one of few reporters who stayed to cover the destruction being caused in this now broken country. The partner of this journalist now needed someone else to work with, and Hoagland stepped up to help, entering a short career as a sound man. After his work had finished, he returned to still photos in 1980. He worked with reporter Ignacio Rodriguez from a Mexican newspaper and who was shot and killed by a sniper soon after in Lebanon. During another escapade, also in Lebanon, Hoagland and two other journalists drove over a mine and all three suffered severe injuries, the driver at the time, Ian Mates died a few hours after due to injury. Later on he journeyed to Beirut to photograph the withdrawal of the United States Marines and finally ended up in El Salvador, where he was killed.\n\nAt the time of his death, John Hoagland was a contract photographer for \"Newsweek\". On March 16, 1984, John Hoagland and Robert Nickelsberg of \"Time\" magazine, along with a few cameramen from CBS News, were entering an area of danger along a road between San Salvador and Suchitoto, El Salvador. The area had been secluded off because of multiple gun fights starting, but the journalists were allowed entry \"at their own risk\" to reach the city of Suchitoto. Hoagland and company knew that the area made them vulnerable to ambushes. They entered the area and were ambushed by the Salvadoran guerrillas. The news teams took cover among smalls hills that were covered in grass, and as Hoagland went to kneel down he yelled that he had been hit. A single bullet from a large caliber M-60 weapon to Hoagland's back made him bleed out. The bullets continued to fly, kicking dust up as they swept past. Hoagland had died merely 15 seconds after being hit, but no one knew until after the firefight had been broken up by the Salvadoran army.\n\nThe civil war was started after the assassination of the Archbishop Óscar Romero on March 24, 1980. The assassination had been done by the Salvadoran military, and the guerillas were created to combat them and their misdoings. The Archbishop had been leading mass when he was killed, speaking to the soldiers that they should disobey orders to torture and murder, as it would only lead to their downfall. The war had also been stirred up by social inequality, the repressive military, and poverty that had spread throughout the country.\n\nJohn Hoagland was one of 35 journalists whose names appeared on \"death lists\" by Salvadoran death squads.\n\nA total of 16 journalists were killed in the conflict besides Hoagland. The others who died covering the war were Richard Cross (journalist)|Richard Cross (Honduras), Oliver Rebbot (El Salvador)), Ian Mates (El Salvador)), Ignacio Rodriguez (El Salvador), Bill Stewart (Nicaragua), John Sullivan (journalist) (El Salvador), Dial Torgerson (Honduras), Rene Tamsen (El Salvador),Jaime Suarez (El Salvador), Caesar Najorro (El Salvador), Linda Frazier (Nicaragua), Koos Koster (El Salvador), Jan Kuiper (El Salvador), Hans Ter Laag (El Salvador), and Johannes Willemsen (El Salvador).\n\nRobert Nickelsberg, a fellow photographer from \"Time\" magazine, said \"He was a good man who worked very hard, loved what he did and none of us really need this at this point, but those are the risks.\"\n\nIvan Montesinos, a Salvadoran reporter for UPI, states \"He was no fool, when you went into the field with him, I felt safe because he knew how to move between the shots.\"\n\nUlises Rodriguez, a young inspired journalist, said \"I must have been 10 years old when I saw a foreign journalist wandering around downtown... I asked what it took to be a photographer like him and he said study photojournalism and journalism. Years after, I found out that man was John Hoagland.\"\n\nThe journalist and photographer 'John Cassidy,' played by John Savage in the 1986 movie \"Salvador\" was loosely based on Hoagland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2197367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197367", "title": "Joshua Huddy", "text": "Joshua Huddy\n\nJoshua \"Jack\" Huddy (November 8, 1735April 12, 1782), the commander of a New Jersey Patriot militia unit and a privateer ship during the American Revolutionary War, was captured by Loyalist forces twice. He escaped his first capture, but following his second capture, he was summarily hanged by irregular forces of the Associated Loyalists. Huddy's death became a motive force behind one of the first international incidents of the fledgling United States when the Continental army planned to execute a young British officer in retaliation in what became known as the \"Asgill Affair\".\n\nJoshua Huddy was born November 8, 1735 to a prosperous family in Salem County, Province of New Jersey, the oldest of seven brothers. His grandfather, Hugh Huddy, was a well-known judge in Burlington. Huddy spent most of his early life in Salem, where he was considered rebellious and a troublemaker. He was disowned by Quakers in Salem in 1757 for his \"disorderly\" conduct. His \"rough ways\" continued into adulthood; he was tried and convicted several times for crimes including assault and theft, and repeatedly was in financial difficulties. He was forced to sell a 300-acre (1.2 km²) plantation in Salem to pay his debts and was forced into debtor's prison for a time. In 1764, he married his first wife, the widowed Mary Borden, by whom he had two daughters, Elizabeth and Martha.\n\nIn the 1770s, he moved to Colts Neck in Monmouth County, where on October 27, 1778, he married his second wife, Catherine (Applegate) Hart, also a widow and owner of the Colts Neck Tavern, which she inherited from her first husband, Levy Hart. Huddy was later accused by the Monmouth County sheriff of trying to steal the tavern from his wife and force her children out onto the street. He often was in civil and criminal court, either as plaintiff or defendant.\n\nHuddy allied himself with the American revolutionists and engaged in raids and revenge executions that characterized the intense violence between Monmouth County residents, which continued even after the war's end. He served as captain of the Monmouth Militia from March to December 1779. He led several raids in which he and his men seized materials allegedly sold illegally to the British in New York; he captured and sometimes executed Loyalists. He was accused of hanging Stephen Edwards, the first Loyalist to die in the county, and 14 others. He denied at least one of the murders.\n\nIn August 1780, Huddy was issued a commission to operate a gunboat, \"The Black Snake\", as a privateer. One month later, he was captured in his house in Colts Neck at night by 25 Loyalist raiders led by Colonel Tye. Huddy and a servant woman held off the attackers in a two-hour-long gun battle, but after they set fire to his house he agreed to surrender to if they would extinguish the blaze. Colonel Tye marched Huddy to what is now West Park in Rumson, New Jersey, where he was put on a boat to go to New York. However, Patriots on the other side of the Shrewsbury River fired on the boat, which capsized. Huddy, wounded in the thigh, managed to swim to shore and escape.\n\nOn February 1, 1782, Huddy was given command of the blockhouse (a small fort) at the village of Toms River that was built to protect the local salt works. The salt was needed to cure meat destined for American troops, and the Toms River was an important launch point for Patriot privateers. On March 24, a large irregular force of the Associated Loyalists, an organization headed by William Franklin, overwhelmed Huddy's small band of defenders, taking the fort. The blockhouse, salt works, local mills, and all but two houses in the village were destroyed, leaving dozens of people homeless.\n\nAs an officer, Huddy was transferred to a military prison ship at New York, then held by the British. Soon thereafter, however, Huddy was removed from British custody by a band of Associated Loyalists headed by Captain Richard Lippincott, ostensibly for the purpose of making a prisoner exchange. No such exchange was actually planned, however. Instead, Huddy was taken by boat to Middletown Point, a location on the south coast of Sandy Hook Bay, and landed on the beach at the foot of the Navesink Hills, where on April 12, 1782 he was hanged after dictating and signing his will.\n\nHuddy's summary execution by the Loyalists came as a retribution for the death of one of their number, a Loyalist farmer named Philip White who had died under Patriot custody. The Loyalist executioners left a note on his breast, \"Up Goes Huddy for Phillip White.\" It was reported that Huddy died calmly and bravely, declaring that he would \"die innocent and in a good cause.\"\n\nPatriots found Huddy's body hanging from the gallows the next morning, cut it down and brought it to Freehold, where he was buried at Old Tennent Church. More than 400 people gathered to protest his execution and a petition was sent to General George Washington demanding retribution by the execution of a British officer of similar rank if Captain Lippincott was not surrendered. Both Washington and the commander of British forces in New York, General Sir Henry Clinton, condemned the hanging, and prompted the British to forbid the Board of Loyalists from removing any further prisoners. Sir Guy Carleton, Clinton's successor, later abolished the organization.\n\nPatriotic sentiment ran high following the killing of Huddy. In an effort to avert independent reprisals by the New Jersey militia, Washington agreed to the proposition to select a British prisoner of war for retaliatory execution. Washington issued an order to General Moses Hazen to select a British prisoner by lot to be hanged in retribution. Straws were drawn on May 26, 1782 and a young British officer, Capt. Charles Asgill, drew the short straw and was thereby selected should Capt. Lippincott not be turned over to the Patriots for trial.\n\nThe situation was further complicated by the fact that Asgill and the other British captive officers were protected under the terms of surrender agreed to between British General Charles Cornwallis and Washington following the Siege of Yorktown in October of the previous year. An execution of Asgill would have been a clear violation of the terms of the surrender and a black eye to for the rebellious colonials intent upon establishing an independent nation.\n\nFortunately for all concerned, the British managed to delay Asgill's retaliatory execution by holding their own court-martial of Lippincott. Lippincott was eventually found not guilty on the basis that he was just following orders.\n\nWashington turned to an old associate, General Benjamin Lincoln, formerly the second in command of the Continental Army and the acting Secretary of War of the Americans. While he and other ranking Continental Army officers favored a retaliatory killing, they urged patience. This delay ultimately allowed sufficient time for the intercession of the Americans' French allies, who were motivated by a direct appeal to King Louis XVI and his wife, Marie Antoinette, by the mother of the condemned British Captain. French foreign minister the Comte de Vergennes, was directed to plead Asgill's case to Washington.\n\nCatherine Hart, Huddy's widow, also stated she wished Asgill's life be spared, since he was an innocent victim of circumstances.\n\nBacked by diplomatic pressure, the matter was turned over to the Continental Congress for decision. Asgill was freed by order of Congress passed on November 7, 1782. Asgill was issued a pass to British lines and returned to Britain, while Lippincott emigrated after the war to Canada, where he received 3,000 acres (12 km²) as a reward for his services to Britain, as was common for all Loyalist refugees.\n\n\n \"Revolutionary War Sites in Toms River, New Jersey: Joshua Huddy Park,\" Revolutionary War New Jersey, www.revolutionarywarnewjersey.com/\n"}
{"id": "26512776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26512776", "title": "Juanita Goggins", "text": "Juanita Goggins\n\nJuanita W. Goggins (May 11, 1934 – c. February 20, 2010) was the first African-American woman elected to the South Carolina legislature; in 1974 she gained a seat in the state House of Representatives. She was re-elected and served a total of three terms before resigning for unspecified health reasons in 1980.\n\nBorn in rural Anderson County, South Carolina in 1934, Juanita was one of ten children of sharecroppers. She was the only one to earn a four-year college degree. She graduated from South Carolina State College, a historically black college, where she also earned a master's degree. She became a teacher in the segregated public schools of Rock Hill.\n\nJuanita married Horace W. Goggins, a dentist. They had a son whom they named Horace W., II.\n\nMotivated by her interest in education, Goggins became active in the civil rights movement and politics. Rock Hill was the site of civil rights demonstrations in the 1960s to end segregation in public facilities.\n\nIn 1972 she was elected as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention, where she was the first black woman to represent the state of South Carolina. That year she was appointed as a member of the South Carolina State Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. (She has erroneously been reported as the first black woman appointed to the Civil Rights Commission, but that honor was held by Frankie Muse Freeman, appointed in 1964.) As a nationally known, groundbreaking figure, Goggins was invited to the White House during the presidency of Jimmy Carter.\n\nDefeating a white man, Goggins was elected in 1974 to represent Rock Hill in the state House of Representatives, and re-elected to serve a total of three terms. Among her accomplishments as legislator were securing funding for sickle-cell anemia testing in county health departments; the disease affects primarily African Americans, whose health programs had been underfunded during the decades of segregation and disfranchisement. She also helped pass a 1977 law that provided for education funding in South Carolina; it was still in use at the time of her death. The Associated Press wrote: \"Her proposals to expand kindergarten and to reduce student-teacher ratios in the primary grades were adopted after she left politics in 1980, citing health issues.\"\n\nHer last surviving sibling, Ilese Dixon, later said of her: \"She was not bashful or anything. She liked to talk. I used to say she could sell an Eskimo ice. She was just lively and smart. She thought she could fix the world.\"\n\nSeveral years after Goggins left the state legislature, she and her husband divorced. She moved to Columbia, where she worked for a time as a state social worker. She also established a nonprofit tutoring service.\n\nShe became increasingly reclusive within her neighborhood of mostly elderly black people. She had let one neighbor in only once in 16 years. After being mugged in the neighborhood, she did not go out as much and he used to get groceries for her, leaving them at her door. Her son Horace W. Goggins, Jr. and the property manager, Linda Martin, had tried to arrange help, including monitoring from social services, but Juanita Goggins refused the assistance.\n\nShe died in February 2010 of hypothermia, freezing to death in her home, although the heat was working. The electricity had been turned off for non-payment but after her death, officials found that Goggins had $2500 in cash in the house. Neighbors contacted Goggins' landlord after they had noticed that her lights had not been turned on for some time. The coroner stated that he found indications that she had suffered from dementia. She is believed to have died on February 20, 2010, however, her body was not discovered for 11 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170250", "title": "Julia Livilla", "text": "Julia Livilla\n\nJulia Livilla (Classical Latin: , also called or ) (early AD 18 - late AD 41 or early AD 42) was the youngest child of Germanicus and Agrippina the Elder and the youngest sister of the Emperor Caligula. She is sometimes known as \"Lesbia\" for her birthplace.\n\nJulia Livilla was the youngest great-granddaughter of Emperor Augustus, great-niece and adoptive granddaughter of the Emperor Tiberius, sister of the Emperor Caligula, niece of the Emperor Claudius, and through her eldest sister Agrippina the Younger, maternal aunt of the Emperor Nero. In most ancient literary sources, on inscriptions and on coins, she is simply called \"Julia\". It is possible that she dropped the use of her cognomen after the \"damnatio memoriae\" of her paternal aunt Livilla (sister of Germanicus and Claudius) after whom she was named. However, on her sepulchral inscription, she is explicitly named \"Livilla, daughter of Germanicus\", which suggests that in her time she was called either \"Julia\" or \"Livilla\".\nShe was born on Lesbos, one of the many Greek islands during her parents' grand tour of the eastern Mediterranean, leading Germanicus to his command base in the imperial province of Syria for the \"maius imperium\" given to him by Tiberius over the territory east of the Adriatic Sea. As a young child, she was with her mother and brother Caligula when they returned to Rome after Germanicus' untimely death in Antioch in 19 CE.\n\nJulia Livilla grew up in the household of her great-grandmother Livia and later under the care of her paternal grandmother Antonia Minor. She was first betrothed to a distant cousin, Quinctilius Varus, son of the ill-fated governor of Germania, Publius Quinctilius Varus, and of Claudia Pulchra, granddaughter of Octavia the Younger, sister of Augustus, but after Quinctillius was charged of \"maiestas\" in 27, the marriage did not occur. In 33, she married Marcus Vinicius. Vinicius' family came from a small town outside of Rome. He descended from a family of the \"equites\" class and his father and grandfather had served as consuls. Her husband was mild in character and was an elaborate orator. Vinicius was appointed by Tiberius as a commissioner in early 37. He was also consul in 30 and proconsul of Asia in 38/39. According to an inscription, Julia Livilla may have accompanied her husband in Asia during his proconsulship.\n\nIn 39, Livilla was involved in an unsuccessful conspiracy (led perhaps by Agrippina) to overthrow Caligula and to replace him by his brother-in-law Marcus Aemilius Lepidus (Drusilla's widower, but also lover of Agrippina and Livilla). Livilla and her sister Agrippina the Younger were banished to the Pontine Islands (they were most likely separated in their exile and each one sent to a different island). After the deaths of Caligula, his fourth wife Milonia Caesonia, and their daughter Julia Drusilla, she returned from exile on the orders of the new emperor, Livilla's paternal uncle Claudius. Later in 41, she fell out of favour with Messalina (Claudius's third wife) and was charged by her paternal uncle Claudius for having adultery with Seneca the Younger. Both were exiled. She was most likely sent to Ventotene. Political considerations may have played a role in Julia Livilla's fate, more than just moral or domestic preoccupations as inferred in the ancient sources. In late 41 or early 42, her uncle ordered her execution, apparently by starvation, without a defense and on unsupported charges. She was executed around the same time as her cousin Julia Livia, the daughter of her aunt Livilla. Her remains were later brought back to Rome, probably when Agrippina became Empress; they were laid to rest in the Mausoleum of Augustus.\n\nThe sepulchral inscription found on her cippus reads: \"Livilla, daughter of Germanicus, lies here\" (\"LIVILLA GERMANICI CAESARIS FILIA HIC SITA EST\"). A rich and precious vase found near this cippus is believed to have contained Livilla's ashes.\n\nA series of portrait heads, usually known as the \"Leptis-Malta type\", has been identified as Livilla.\n\n\nIn the 1968 British television series \"The Caesars\" Julia Livilla was portrayed by Jenny White. In the film \"Caligula\" she was played by Mirella D'Angelo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17794738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17794738", "title": "List of rampage killers", "text": "List of rampage killers\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain, for each category, the first fifteen cases with at least one of the following features:\nThe separate articles for the different categories have more extensive lists.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (Africa and the Middle East)\n\nThis section contains cases that occurred in Africa and the Middle East. Not included are school massacres, workplace killings, hate crimes or familicides, which form their own categories.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (Americas)\n\nThis section contains cases that occurred in the Americas.\n\nNot included are school massacres, workplace killings, hate crimes or familicides, which form their own categories.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see\": List of rampage killers (Asia) and List of rampage killers (China)\n\nThis section contains cases that occurred in Asia. Not included are school massacres, workplace killings, hate crimes, or familicides, which form their own categories.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (Europe)\n\nThis section contains cases that occurred in Europe.\n\nNot included are school massacres, workplace killings, hate crimes or familicides, which form their own categories.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (Oceania and Maritime Southeast Asia)\n\nThis section contains cases that occurred in Oceania and the Maritime Southeast Asia.\n\nNot included are school massacres, workplace killings, hate crimes or familicides, which form their own categories.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (workplace killings)\n\nPeople killing their (former) co-workers; also includes soldiers killing their comrades.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (school massacres) \n\"See also\" List of school-related attacks\n\nMassacres at kindergartens, schools and universities\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (religious, political or racial crimes) <br>\nMass murders, committed by lone wolf perpetrators, that have a foremost religious, racial or political background.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (home intruders), List of familicides, List of familicides in the United States and List of familicides in Europe.\n\nThis section contains cases that could be considered non-public, which means mass murders perpetrated in a domestic environment. The section is divided into two sub-categories; the first encompasses the lists of familicides and contains those incidents where most of the victims were relatives of the perpetrator, while the second, paraphrased as home intruders, contains those cases where the targeted families were not related to the perpetrator.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (vehicular homicide) <br>\nThis section contains those cases where only vehicles were used to attack people. Since it may be quite difficult to distinguish accidents, or cases of reckless driving from those incidents where the driver, or pilot, had the intention to harm others, only those cases are included where it is clear that the vehicle was applied as a weapon and crashed deliberately into people, other vehicles, or buildings. Also, those cases where a rampage killer used an armed vehicle, such as a tank, or a fighter aircraft, to shoot others are listed here. Airliners are not included in this section but in other incidents.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (mass murders committed using grenades) <br>\nThis section lists mass murders where the perpetrator used only hand grenades or comparable explosive devices, like pipe bombs or dynamite sticks, for the attack. As it is sometimes difficult to distinguish cases of grenade attacks from acts of terrorism or gang-related attacks, incidents are only included where there is at least some indication that it was neither committed in the context of a political, ethnic, or religious conflict, nor part of an assault with more than one participating offender.\n\n\"Only the first 15 entries are shown here. For the entire list see:\" List of rampage killers (other incidents) <br>\nThis section lists mass murders by single perpetrators that do not fit into the upper categories, like arson fires, poisonings, and bombings.\n\nThe W-column gives a basic description of the weapons used in the murders\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58618881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58618881", "title": "Lonely Tree", "text": "Lonely Tree\n\nThe Lonely Tree was a Scots pine on a hill near Llanfyllin, Powys, Wales. Visible from much of the town it was a local landmark with several traditions attached to it. The tree was blown over during a storm in February 2014, and despite efforts to save it, the tree was found to be dead in June 2015. The tree was voted Welsh Tree of the Year for 2014 and finished tenth in the European Tree of the Year awards for 2015. Seventeen saplings have been planted nearby in the hope that one will grow to replace the tree.\n\nThe Lonely Tree was a Scots pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\") located on top of the high Green Hall Hill overlooking the town of Llanfyllin in Powys, Wales and was visible from much of the town. The tree is thought to have seeded before 1815 and was classed as a veteran tree. The tree was in girth and was noted to have been suffering from decaying wood in its crown and from hollowing of its branches.\n\nThe tree was a popular local landmark and also an attraction for hill walkers. The site was used as a scout camp site and part of the cross country course for the local school. It was also the site of one of the millennium beacons. Many traditions attached themselves to the tree with local people carving their initials on it, proposing marriage near it and having their ashes scattered there. The tree was used as the symbol of Llanfyllin Town Council.\n\nThe Lonely Tree was blown over by winds during a storm in February 2014. In an attempt to save the tree, locals brought between 30 and 60 tonnes of soil up the hill, using equipment donated by local companies, to place over its roots to prevent them drying out. There were hopes that the tree would regrow from the rootstock. Hundreds of people visited the site after the storm to pay their respects to the tree. Donations of several hundred pounds were received from Welsh expatriates towards the care of the tree. Llanfyllin town mayor Ann Williams said at the time: \"The Lonely Tree is such a strong symbol of how much a community can stick together and keep something alive.\"\n\nThe tree received significant attention after it fell. It was voted \"Wales's third favourite special place\" in 2014 and in October of that year was entered into the Welsh Tree of the Year competition. The tree won the competition, and as a result, was entered into the European Tree of the Year competition in 2015, finishing tenth with 1,548 votes.\n\nPlanning for a replacement of the tree by the town council began in April 2015 and discussions were held about installing a memorial plaque if it did not recover. In June it was confirmed that the tree had diedits remains were left in situ and seeds were taken from it in the hope of growing a new tree. By December of that year seventeen saplings had been planted in a new fenced enclosure nearby with the hope that at least one would survive to become as iconic as the Lonely Tree. One sapling was a descendent of the original tree, one was from seeds collected locally and the remainder were donated by a plant nursery.\n"}
{"id": "548500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548500", "title": "Mau movement", "text": "Mau movement\n\nThe Mau was a non-violent movement for Samoan independence from colonial rule during the first half of the 20th century. \"Mau\" means 'opinion,' 'unwavering,' 'to be decided,' or 'testimony' denoting 'firm strength' in Samoan. The motto for the Mau were the words Samoa mo Samoa (Samoa for the Samoans). Similarly in Hawaii'an \"Mau\" means to strive or persevere, and is often linked with Hawaii'an poetry relating to independence and sovereignty struggles.\n\nThe movement had its beginnings on the island of Savai'i with the \"Mau a Pule\" resistance in the early 1900s with widespread support throughout the country by the late 1920s. As the movement grew, leadership came under the country's chiefly elite, the customary \"matai\" leaders entrenched in Samoan tradition and fa'a Samoa. The Mau included women who supported the national organisation through leadership and organisation as well as taking part in marches. Supporters wore a Mau uniform of a navy blue lavalava with a white stripe which was later banned by the colonial administration.\n\nThe Mau movement culminated on 28 December 1929 in the streets of the capital Apia, when the New Zealand military police fired on a procession who were attempting to prevent the arrest of one of their members. The day became known as Black Saturday. Up to 11 Samoans were killed, including Mau leader and high chief Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III with many others wounded. One New Zealand constable was clubbed to death by protesters.\nThe Mau movement's efforts would ultimately result in the political independence of Samoa in 1962 but the height of the movement's activity in the Western Islands occurred in the late 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nBroadly, the history of the Mau movement can be seen as beginning in the 19th century with European contact and the advent of Western powers, Britain, United States and Germany, vying for control of the Pacific nation. The country became German Samoa (1900–1914) followed by New Zealand colonial rule during which the Mau gathered national support. \n\nA key event occurred in 1908, in a dispute between the German colonial administration and the \"Malo o Samoa\", or Samoan Council of Chiefs, over the establishment of a copra business owned and controlled by native Samoans.\n\nThe dispute led to the eventual formation of a resistance movement called \"Mau a Pule\" on Savai'i by Lauaki Namulau'ulu Mamoe, one of the Samoan leaders from Safotulafai who was deposed by the German Governor of Samoa, Wilhelm Solf. As well as deposing members of the \"Malo o Samoa\", Solf called in two German warships as a show of strength. Lauaki returned with his warriors from Savai'i for battle. The German governor convinced Mata'afa to set up a \"peace talk meeting\" with Lauaki but that Lauaki had to disperse his army before the meeting. Unbeknown to Mata'afa was the intent of the German governor to rid of Lauaki. Lauaki, a man of honor, returned with his warriors to Savai'i as they were reluctant to leave Upolu without him. After ensuring his warriors' arrival to their villages, Lauaki returned to Upolu. As it took Lauaki several days to disperse his army, the German governor set up his trap. Days later upon their return to Upolu, Lauaki and some of the Chiefs were betrayed at this \"peace talk\", held aboard the German ship. In 1909, Lauaki and the other senior leaders of the \"Mau a Pule\" were exiled to the German colonies in the Marianas (North West Pacific) where they were to stay until 1914, when New Zealand took over Samoa as part of its Empire duties at the outbreak of World War I. Many of those exiled died before returning to Samoa. Lauaki died en route back to Samoa in 1915.\n\nThe Samoan independence movement would not gain strength again until after New Zealand forces, unopposed by the German rulers, annexed Western Samoa in 1914, at the beginning of World War I. Military rule continued after the war ended, and in 1919, some 7,500 Samoans, around 22 per cent of the population, died during an influenza epidemic. It was already known that Samoans were susceptible to the smallest European diseases, as they had never encountered them before. When the ship \"SS Talune\" arrived in Apia with its crew and passengers obviously sick with influenza, they were allowed to dock by the New Zealanders.\n\nTwo days later the first deaths were reported. No attempt was made by the New Zealand administrators to quell or contain the spread, and after one week it had spread through the whole of Samoa. Whole families were killed, with such alarming speed that corpses lay around for weeks without being buried. They were either thrown in mass graves or left in houses which were torched. However, in American Samoa, where quarantine precaution measures had been adequately taken, there were no deaths. Upon learning of the current situation in Western Samoa, the American Governor offered help to Colonel Logan who was in charge; Logan was British born and hated Americans. He destroyed the telegram and cut off any other contact to American Samoa. The Americans had a large medical team who could have saved many lives.\nThis catastrophic event was to lay a new foundation for discontent with an administration already perceived as incompetent and dishonest by many Samoans. The clumsy handling of Samoa's governance, the slow and deliberate erosion of traditional Samoan social structures by successive administrators, and a general failure to understand and respect Samoan culture also sowed the seeds for a revitalised resistance to colonial rule. Logan was replaced by Colonel Robert Tate.\n\nThe groundswell of support among Samoans for the Mau came from the leadership of Samoan \"matai\", the heads of families in Samoa's traditional socio-political structure. Family and chiefly title connections, a central part of Samoan culture, were used to harness support. The success of the Mau in gathering national support showed that \"fa'a Samoa\" was still strong despite colonialism.\n\nSamoans of mixed parentage, facing discrimination from both cultures but with the advantage of cross-cultural knowledge, also played a key role in the new movement.\n\nOlaf Frederick Nelson, one of the leaders of the new Mau movement, was a successful merchant of mixed Swedish and Samoan heritage. Nelson was the richest man in Samoa at the time and well-travelled. He was frustrated by the colonial administration's exclusion of native and part-Samoans from governance. Notably, he was one of many who had lost a child to the influenza epidemic of 1919 in addition to his mother, sister, only brother, and sister in-law. Although classified as a European, he considered himself Samoan \"by birth blood and sentiment.\"\n\nIn 1926, Nelson visited Wellington to lobby the New Zealand government on the issue of increased self-rule. During his visit, the Minister for External Affairs, William Nosworthy, promised to visit Samoa to investigate. When Nosworthy postponed his trip, Nelson organised two public meetings in Apia, which were attended by hundreds, and The Samoan League, or \"O le Mau\", was formed.\n\nThe Mau published the \"Samoa Guardian\" newspaper as a mouthpiece for the movement. To demonstrate the extent of popular support for the Mau, Nelson organised a sports meeting for movement members on the King's Birthday, in parallel with the official event, and held a well-attended ball at his home on the same night. Movement members had begun to engage in acts of noncooperation: neglecting the compulsory weekly search for the rhinoceros beetle, enemy of the coconut palm, thereby threatening the lucrative copra industry. When New Zealand administrators imposed a per-capita beetle quota, many Samoan villages resisted by breeding the insects in tightly-woven baskets rather than comply with the orders to scour the forests and collect them.\n\nIn 1927, alarmed at the growing strength of the Mau, George Richardson, the administrator of Samoa, changed the law to allow the deportation of Europeans or part-Europeans charged with fomenting unrest. This action was presumably taken on the assumption that the growing movement was merely a product of self-interested Europeans agitating the native Samoans.\n\nIn reality, however, the Mau was built upon the traditional forms of Samoan political organisation. In each village that joined the movement, a committee was formed, consisting of the chiefs and \"talking men\". These committees formed the basic element of an alternative system of governance, and the tendency of Samoans to unite under traditional leadership meant that by the mid- to late 1920s, around 85% of the Samoan population was involved in open resistance.\n\nFollowing another visit to New Zealand to petition the Government, Nelson was exiled from Samoa along with two other part-European Mau leaders. The petition, which led to the formation of a joint select committee to investigate the situation in Samoa, quoted an ancient Samoan proverb: \"We are moved by love, but never driven by intimidation.\"\n\nThe Mau remained true to this sentiment, and despite the exile of Nelson, continued to use civil disobedience to oppose the New Zealand administration. They boycotted imported products, refused to pay taxes and formed their own \"police force\", picketing stores in Apia to prevent the payment of customs to the authorities. Village committees established by the administration ceased to meet and government officials were ignored when they went on tour. Births and deaths went unregistered. Coconuts went unharvested, and the banana plantations were neglected.\n\nAs the select committee was forced to admit, \"a very substantial proportion of Samoans had joined the Mau, a number quite sufficient, if they determined to resist and thwart the activities of the Administration, to paralyse the functions of government.\"\n\nRichardson sent a warship and a 70-strong force of marines to quell the largely non-violent resistance. 400 Mau members were arrested, but others responded by giving themselves up in such numbers that there were insufficient jail cells to detain them all, and the prisoners came and went as they pleased. One group of prisoners found themselves in a three-sided \"cell\" which faced the ocean, and were able to swim away to tend to their gardens and visit their families.\n\nWith his attempt at repression turning to ridicule, Richardson offered pardons to all those arrested; however, arrestees demanded to be dealt with by the court, and then refused to enter pleas to demonstrate their rejection of the court's jurisdiction.\n\nThe new administrator, Stephen Allen, replaced the marines with a special force of New Zealand police, and began to target the leaders of the movement.\n\nTupua Tamasese Lealofi III, who had led the movement following the exile of Nelson, was arrested for non-payment of taxes and imprisoned for six months.\n\nOn 28 December 1929 — which would be known thereafter as \"Black Saturday\" — New Zealand military police fired upon a peaceful demonstration which had assembled to welcome home A.G. Smyth, a European movement leader returning to Samoa after a two-year exile. Reports of the massacre are sketchy because the official cover-up for the incident was so effective. Tupua Tamasese Lealofi III had rushed to the front of the crowd and turned to face his people; he called for peace from them because some were throwing stones at the police. With his back to the police calling for peace he was shot in the back; another Samoan who rushed to help him was shot in both legs while cradling his head. Another who had attempted to shield his body from the bullets was shot. Two more rushing to help were killed before they could reach him. \n\nShooting stopped at around 6.30 am. Eight had died, three would later die, and about 50 were wounded. One policeman had also been clubbed to death.\n\nAmong the wounded were terrified women and children who had fled to a market place for cover from New Zealand police firing from the verandah of the station, one of them wielding a Lewis machine-gun.\n\nAs he lay dying, Tamesese III made this statement to his followers:\n\nMy blood has been spilt for Samoa. I am proud to give it. Do not dream of avenging it, as it was spilt in peace. If I die, peace must be maintained at any price.\n\nFollowing the massacre, male Mau members fled to the mountains, the traditional retreat of those defeated in war. The resistance continued by other means, with the emergence of a women's Mau to continue the councils, parades and symbolic protests that the men now could not. For the women's movement, even the game of cricket represented an act of defiance inviting official harassment.\n\nThe day after his funeral, his village was raided by New Zealand military police; they ransacked houses, including those of the Tamasese's mourning widow and children. Colonel Allen requested reinforcements from New Zealand after he claimed 2000 Mau had caused a riot. On 12 January 1930 the Royal New Zealand Navy flagship \"Dunedin\" brought marines to hunt down members of The Mau. The Mau, who were fully committed to Passive Resistance, easily slipped through the jungle; the marines were slow because they were carrying too much weaponry and didn't know the bush like The Mau. The Mau no longer trusted New Zealand police, and this fear only got worse after a 16-year-old un-armed Samoan was shot and killed while running away from a marine, whose excuse he thought the boy was going to throw a stone was accepted as an adequate defence and no charges were laid.\n\nA truce was declared on 12 March 1930, after another child was killed by New Zealand marines who were now suffering heat exhaustion and tropical infections. The male Mau members returned to their homes, on the condition that they retain their right to engage in non-cooperation. Meanwhile, Nelson and other exiled leaders continued to lobby the New Zealand Government and communicate their progress to the Mau. In 1931, news of the growing resistance to the British rule of India reached many Samoan villages.\n\nThe Mau movement had not gone unnoticed by the population of New Zealand, and the treatment of Samoans at the hands of the administration had become a contentious issue in some New Zealand electorates during the 1929 election. 1936 marked a turning point for Samoa, with the election of a Labour Government in New Zealand and the subsequent relaxation of repression by the Samoan administration. Under the new Government, there was slow movement towards greater involvement of Samoans in the administration of their own country.\n\nWhen Western Samoa gained its independence in 1962, Tupua Tamasese Meaole, son of the Mau movement leader, became its first co-head of state with Malietoa Tanumafili II.\n\nFiame Mata'afa Faumuina Mulinu'u II (1921–1975), the son of another high chief and Mau leader Mata'afa Faumuina Fiame Mulinu'u I, became the first Prime Minister of Samoa.\n\nIn July 1997, the Samoa Constitution was amended to change the country's name to Samoa, and officially the Independent State of Samoa.\n\nIn 2002, Helen Clark, Prime Minister of New Zealand made an unprecedented move and apologised to Samoa for New Zealand's treatment of Samoans during the colonial era. Clark made the apology in the capital Apia during the 40th anniversary of Samoa's independence. The apology covered the influenza epidemic of 1918, the shooting of unarmed Mau protesters by New Zealand police in 1929 and the banishing of matai (chiefs) from their homes.\n\nThe Mau had manifestations in both the Western and Eastern Samoan island groups.\nThe Mau movement emerged as an articulated of an indigenous response to the U.S. annexation of the eastern Samoan islands in 1899. It featured the signing of petitions in efforts to enact political transformation vis-a-vis American colonial government, and included effort to resist taxation of copra.\n\nThere was an American Samoa Mau that took place in Tutuila in American Samoa in the 1920s. It emerged as a result of fluctuating prices of copra and represented an open affront to the American Navy and its patterns of treatment of the indigenous Samoan people and failure to respect Samoan customs, conceptions of self-government and the Samoan way of life.\nThis movement received a lot of press in the United States, both favourable and unfavourable. The leader of the movement, Samuel Ripley of Leone, Tutuila, was in effect exiled from American Samoa, when he was barred by the US Navy authorities from disembarking from a ship returning to Pagopago from California, and he was never allowed to return to his homeland. He eventually became the mayor of Richmond, California. The United States sent a committee to American Samoa in 1930, including US citizens from Hawaii who had a prominent role in the overthrow of the Hawaiian kingdom and Queen Lili'uokalani. Their report, favourable to the US position, had a considerable influence on US policy, and the American Samoa Mau was totally suppressed by the US. Its influence however continued to be felt.\n\nA Samoan hip hop group that was founded in 1990 by Kosmo, MC Kha Tha Feelstyle Orator and DJ Rockit V. The Mau was named for the Mau movement. The motto of the group became the same as the motto of the Mau movement; Samoa Mo Samoa, or Samoa for Samoans. The Mau has now reformed as the group Rough Opinion. The group still carries the message of the Mau movement as their theme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32398910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398910", "title": "Paratomy", "text": "Paratomy\n\nParatomy is a form of asexual reproduction in animals where the organism splits in a plane perpendicular to the antero-posterior axis and the split is preceded by the \"pregeneration\" of the anterior structures in the posterior portion.The developing organisms have their body axis aligned i.e. they develop in a head to tail fashion.\n\nBudding can be considered to be similar to paratomy except that the body axes need not be aligned: the new head may grow toward the side or even point backward (e.g. \"Convolutriloba retrogemma\" an acoel flat worm). In animals that undergo fast paratomy a chain of zooids packed in a head to tail formation may develop. Many oligochete annelids, acoelous turbellarians, echinoderm larvae and coelenterates reproduce by this method.\n\n\nThis paper has a detailed description of the changes during paratomy.\n"}
{"id": "54696723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54696723", "title": "Postpartum chills", "text": "Postpartum chills\n\nPostpartum chills is a physiological response that occurs within two hours of childbirth. It appears as uncontrollable shivering. It is seen in many women after delivery and can be unpleasant. It lasts for a short time. It is thought to be a result of a nervous system response. It may also be related to fluid shifts and the actual strenuous work of labor. It is considered a normal response and there is no accompanying fever. A fever would indicate an infection. Reassurance is all that is needed and for the mother to be kept warm. It has been described as a fairly common and normal occurrence. It is thought to be possibly related to the environmental temperature.\n"}
{"id": "10759246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10759246", "title": "Rodney Badger", "text": "Rodney Badger\n\nRodney Badger (February 4, 1823 – April 29, 1853) was the first Utah law enforcement officer to lose his life during the performance of his sworn duties. He died on April 29, 1853 trying to rescue a family whose wagon had overturned in the Weber River. He successfully rescued four children and their mother and died while trying to rescue two other children.\n\nBadger was born in Waterford, Vermont and was a convert to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints . Badger was a Mormon pioneer and arrived in the Salt Lake Valley with the first company on 24 July 1847. Badger was a special agent for the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company and was a deputy sheriff of Salt Lake County.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "732200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732200", "title": "Selfishness", "text": "Selfishness\n\nSelfishness is being concerned excessively or exclusively, for oneself or one's own advantage, pleasure, or welfare, regardless of others.\n\nSelfishness is the opposite of altruism or selflessness; and has also been contrasted (as by C. S. Lewis) with self-centeredness.\n\nThe implications of selfishness have inspired divergent views within religious, philosophical, psychological, economic, and evolutionary contexts.\n\nAristotle joined a perceived majority of his countrymen in condemning those who sought only to profit themselves; but he approved the man of reason who sought to gain for himself the greatest share of that which deserved social praise.\n\nSeneca proposed a cultivation of the self within a wider community – a care for the self which he opposed to mere selfishness in a theme that would later be taken up by Foucault.\n\nSelfishness was viewed in the Western Christian tradition as a central vice – as standing at the roots of the Seven deadly sins in the form of pride.\n\nFrancis Bacon carried forward this tradition when he characterised “Wisdom for a man's self...[a]s the wisdom of rats”.\n\nWith the emergence of a commercial society, Bernard Mandeville proposed the paradox that social and economic advance depended on private vices – on what he called the sordidness of selfishness.\n\nAdam Smith with the concept of the invisible hand saw the economic system as usefully channelling selfish self-interest to wider ends; while John Locke based society upon the solitary individual, arguably opening the door for later thinkers like Ayn Rand to argue for selfishness as a social virtue and the root of social progress.\n\nRoman Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain opposed the latter view by way of the Aristotelian argument that framing the fundamental question of politics as a choice between altruism and selfishness is a basic and harmful mistake of modern states. Rather, cooperation ought to be the norm: human beings are by nature social animals, and so individual persons can only find their full good in and through pursuing the good of the community.\n\nLack of empathy has been seen as one of the roots of selfishness, extending as far as the cold manipulation of the psychopath.\n\nThe contrast between self-affirmation and selfishness has become a conflictual arena in which the respective claims of individual/community are often played out between parents and children or men and women, for example.\n\nPsychoanalysts favor the development of a genuine sense of self, and may even speak of a healthy selfishness, as opposed to the self-occlusion of what Anna Freud called 'emotional surrender'.\n\nSelf-centeredness was marked as a key feature in a phenomenological theory of criminality named \"The Criminal Spin\" model. Accordingly, in most criminal behaviors there is an heightened state of self-centeredness, that differently manifests itself in different situations and in different forms of criminality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40877935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40877935", "title": "Seyyid Abdullah Pasha", "text": "Seyyid Abdullah Pasha\n\nSeyyid Abdullah Pasha (also known as Boynueğri Seyyid Abdullah Pasha \"Seyyid Abdullah Pasha the Crooked-neck\"; died March 1761, Aleppo) was an Ottoman statesman who served as grand vizier from 1747 to 1750. He also served as the Ottoman governor of Cyprus (1745–46, again in 1746–47), Rakka (1746), Konya (1750), Bosnia (1750–51), Egypt (1751–52), Diyarbekir (1752–60), and Aleppo (1760).\n\nAbdullah Pasha was born in Kirkuk, the son of Seyyid Hasan Pasha, who served as grand vizier one term before him. He attended the Enderun palace school as a youth and became a vizier in December 1745.\n\nHe died in office as governor of Aleppo in March 1760.\n\n"}
{"id": "12341699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12341699", "title": "Skeletonization", "text": "Skeletonization\n\nSkeletonization refers to the final stage of decomposition, during which the last vestiges of the soft tissues of a corpse or carcass have decayed or dried to the point that the skeleton is exposed. By the end of the skeletonization process, all soft tissue will have been eliminated, leaving only disarticulated bones. In a temperate climate, it usually requires three weeks to several years for a body to completely decompose into a skeleton, depending on factors such as temperature, humidity, presence of insects, and submergence in a substrate such as water. In tropical climates, skeletonization can occur in weeks, while in tundra areas, skeletonization may take years or may never occur, if subzero temperatures persist. Natural embalming processes in peat bogs or salt deserts can delay the process indefinitely, sometimes resulting in natural mummification.\n\nThe rate of skeletonization and the present condition of a corpse or carcass can be used to determine the time of death.\n\nAfter skeletonization, if scavenging animals do not destroy or remove the bones, acids in many fertile soils take about 20 years to completely dissolve the skeleton of mid- to large-size mammals, such as humans, leaving no trace of the organism. In neutral-pH soil or sand, the skeleton can persist for hundreds of years before it finally disintegrates. Alternately, especially in very fine, dry, salty, anoxic, or mildly alkaline soils, bones may undergo fossilization, converting into minerals that may persist indefinitely. \n"}
{"id": "50332796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50332796", "title": "Stabbing of Adele Morales by Norman Mailer", "text": "Stabbing of Adele Morales by Norman Mailer\n\nDuring a November 1960 party celebrating his mayoral candidacy, American public intellectual Norman Mailer twice stabbed his wife Adele Morales with a pen-knife in a drunken altercation, nearly taking her life. The incident, though by many accounts swept under the rug by Mailer and his associates, had a lasting impact on his public and critical legacy and persona.\n\nOn the night of November 19, 1960, Mailer and his wife Adele Morales hosted a party, intended to launch his proposed New York mayoral campaign, at the Upper West Side apartment the couple shared with their two young daughters. Mailer had enlisted his well-connected friend, journalist George Plimpton, to attract figures from the city's \"power structure\", he hoped to unite at his party this elite echelon with the \"disenfranchised\" population he saw as his natural constituency—having written of the \"courage\" of hoodlums in his 1957 essay \"The White Negro\"—into a voting base that would propel him to office.\n\nThough David Rockefeller and the Aga Khan declined the invitation, the party's approximately two hundred guests included the poet Allen Ginsberg, as well as several \"derelicts, cut-throats and bohemians\"—many of them homeless—whom Mailer had recruited off the street. This produced an atmosphere characterized by later commentators as at best, \"legendarily tetchy\" and at worst, \"the most dangerous evening I've ever spent in my life\" (from publisher Barney Rosset, a guest at the party).\n\nFights broke out throughout the course of the night and tensions ran high—by some accounts, Norman Mailer at one point divided guests \"on opposite sides of the room according to whether he considered them 'for' or 'against' him\"—with a near-incoherent Mailer eventually leaving the apartment to seek trouble elsewhere. Morales later recalled that \"he was down in the street punching people….He didn't know what his name was, he was so out of it\".\n\nWhen Mailer returned at 4:30 a.m. to find all of the guests departed but for the \"five or six\" who remained in the dining room and Morales getting ready for bed, the altercation broke out. The enraged Mailer burst into the room and Morales taunted his heterosexual masculinity and made a disparaging reference to his mistress. Mailer rushed at her, stabbing her with a rusty two-and-a-half inch penknife, once in the back and once through her breast, puncturing her cardiac sac and narrowly missing her heart. Mailer addressed the shocked guests standing over Morales' prostrate body, saying \"Don't touch her. Let the bitch die\". Morales was rushed downstairs to the apartment of novelist Doc Hume and from there in a taxi cab to University Hospital for emergency surgery.\n\nWhile she remained in critical condition, Morales initially told doctors that she \"had fallen on some glass\", denying any wrongdoing on the part of Mailer, who had come to the hospital later that night to \"lecture Adele's surgeon on the likely dimensions of her wound\". Mailer appeared the next day in a scheduled interview on \"The Mike Wallace Show\", where he spoke of the knife as a symbol of manhood and continued to plug his mayoral bid.\n\nTwo days later, in the hospital's intensive care unit, Morales admitted to police that Mailer had stabbed her; he was arrested at the hospital and involuntarily committed for seventeen days to Bellevue Hospital for psychiatric evaluation by a judge, who pronounced him \"both homicidal and suicidal\". Mailer maintained his sanity, responding \"It is very important to me not to be sent to some mental institution. I'm a sane man. If this happens, for the rest of my life, my work will be considered as the work of a man with a disordered mind\".\n\nThough Morales divorced him in 1962, she refused to press charges, citing a desire to protect their children. He was indicted by a grand jury on charges of felony assault but after pleading guilty to a reduced charge received probation and later a suspended sentence.\n\nThe reaction to the incident in the literary community to which Mailer and Morales belonged has been judged by many observers to be remarkably mild. As Mailer later noted, his friends \"closed ranks\" behind him. He remarked to \"New York Magazine\" in 1983 that \"the reactions were subtle as hell. Five degrees less warmth than I was accustomed to. Not fifteen degrees less—five.\" Many of his counterparts saw the assault as an artistic, even literary act; James Baldwin a writer and friend of Mailer's, characterized it as an attempt to free himself from \"the spiritual prison he had created with his fantasies of becoming a politician,\" \"like burning down the house in order to, at last, be free of it\". Diana Trilling later recalled being told by her husband, critic Lionel Trilling, that the stabbing was a \"Dostoyevskian ploy\" allowing Mailer to \"test the limits of evil in himself.\"\n\nThe attack was, according to many observers, entirely consistent with Mailer's public image, founded on bombastic machismo and an existentially tinged inclination toward norm-defying violence. The incident quickly became a focal point for criticism for Mailer's feminist contemporaries, particularly feminist writer Kate Millett in her 1970 work \"Sexual Politics\", who paralleled the attack with themes of sexual violence they found throughout his work. Nine years later Mailer launched a second mayoral campaign, received five percent of the votes cast and enjoyed the foundational support of prominent feminists Bella Abzug and Gloria Steinem.\n\nMailer long remained publicly blasé about the assault. In 1971 he made a dismissive remark during his appearance on \"The Dick Cavett Show\", \"We all know that I stabbed my wife many years ago. We all know that\". Mailer's admission that the stabbing was \"the one act I can look back on and regret for the rest of my life\" in a 2000 interview, forty years after the fact, marked his first public expression of remorse.\n"}
{"id": "26383573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26383573", "title": "The Greatest (2009 film)", "text": "The Greatest (2009 film)\n\nThe Greatest is a 2009 American drama film written and directed by Shana Feste in her directorial debut, and starring Pierce Brosnan (also an executive producer), Susan Sarandon, Carey Mulligan, and Michael Shannon.\n\nEighteen-year-old Bennett Brewer (Aaron Johnson) and Rose (Mulligan) have sex together, the only time either of them have ever done so. When Bennett is killed when a truck crashes into his car while he is parked in the middle of the road at night, his family feel like they cannot go on. His mother Grace (Sarandon) and his father Allen (Brosnan) get an unexpected visitor knocking at their door; it turns out to be Rose, who is pregnant with Bennett's child. As the story develops, Bennett's younger brother Ryan is introduced and he is grieving the fact he did not say a final good bye to his brother. One sees the true relationships of the family as the story comes together, Grace waits at the bed of Jordan Walker, the man driving the truck which collided with Bennett's car in the crash. She is waiting for him to wake so she can ask him what occurred during the 17 minutes between the crash and his death. After a while, she finds out the truth, but is disappointed with what she hears. In the last moments, Bennett was not calling for his mother - he was calling to Rose asking Walker to make sure that she was safe.\n\nAllen hires a cleaner to clean the house, but when Grace finds out she is terribly angry, claiming their son has been washed away. Allen then appears to be having a heart attack, whilst Grace carries on shouting until she realises what is happening. At the hospital bed, shortly after Grace returns from finding out about Bennett's final minutes, Allen breaks down crying, saying that he had been holding in all his grief and upset, and that he could have done something to prevent the crash and his son's death.\n\nMeanwhile, Rose has overheard Grace saying Rose should have died instead of Bennett, so she leaves and seeks the help of her own mother. She soon realises that all her mother is bothered about is trying to get money from the Brewers, claiming it will help her. The Brewers try to find Rose and they find her in labor and persuade her to go to the hospital and, while in the car on the way, she seeks to find out everything about Bennett she did not already know.\n\nWhen the film draws to a close, one sees Rose and the baby, a girl called Ruby, Grace's favourite girl's name. The film ends with the moment Bennett spoke to Rose earlier on the day he died.\n\nFeste received the help of Creative Artists Agency (CAA) director Richard Lovett, for whom she had been working as an assistant in the past. The CAA sent Pierce Brosnan's producing partner, Beau St. Clair, the script and she convinced him to read it. Shortly after, Susan Sarandon joined the film, convinced by Brosnan. Feste met with a lot of actresses for Carey Mulligan's role but ultimately Mulligan stood out. It was Feste's directorial debut. To gain the confidence of investors and producers, she made a scrapbook which contained her ideas on tone, camera movement, color, space and lines.\n\nPrincipal photography took place in Rockland County, New York. The film was shot in 35 mm format.\n\nThe film screened at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival. Another film starring Mulligan, the Oscar-nominated \"An Education\", also screened at the festival. The film ranking website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 52% of critics had given the film positive reviews, based upon a sample of 56.\n\n"}
{"id": "1740904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740904", "title": "Thought leader", "text": "Thought leader\n\nA thought leader is an individual or firm that is recognized as an authority in a specialized field and whose expertise is sought and often rewarded. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" gives as its first citation for the phrase an 1887 description of Henry Ward Beecher as \"one of the great thought-leaders in America.\" The term had earlier (1876) been applied to Ralph Waldo Emerson, who was said to manifest \"the wizard power of a thought-leader.\"\n\nIn a 1990 article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" Marketing section, Patrick Reilly used the term \"thought leader publications\" to refer to such magazines as \"Harper's\". In the previous decade the term was revived and reengineered by marketers to emphasize an intangible quality of products and brands. \n\nThe term is sometimes used to characterize leaders of service clubs, officers of veterans' organizations, of civic organizations, of women's clubs, lodges, regional officials and insurance executives.\n\nDespite being conceived as a laudatory description, the idea of thought leadership is seen to be inherently contradictory. Since the Enlightenment thinking has been taken to an autonomous activity, relying on logic and not on external authority. Max Weber noted in his studies on vocation that scholars and experts are not necessarily good leaders. Recently (2017) political scientist Daniel W. Drezner contrasted the thought leader to the public intellectual. According to his view intellectuals cultivate opposing views and ambiguities while thought leaders \"develop their own singular lens to explain the world, and then proselytize that worldview to anyone within earshot\".\n\nIn business and marketing 'thought leadership' usually refers to a potentially winning strategy. It is seen as a way of increasing or creating demand for a product or service. High tech firms often publish white papers with analyses of the economic benefits of their products as a form of marketing. These are distinct from technical white papers. Consulting firms frequently publish house reports, e.g. The McKinsey Quarterly, A.T. Kearney Executive Agenda, Strategy&'s Strategy and Business, or Deloitte Review where they publish the results of research, new management models and examples of the use of consulting methodologies.\n\nSpecialist agencies now exist to help corporate clients create evidence-based thought leadership, such as Delineate, Longitude. and others. In addition, major publishing brands also offer similar services, such as the EIU, Forbes and Wall Street Journal.\n\nThe phrase \"thought leader\" is identified by some writers as an annoying example of business jargon, and appeared in \"Forbes\" magazine's 2013 annual \"tournament\" of \"corporate America’s most insufferable\" business buzzwords and clichés. Kevin Money and Nuno Da Camara of the John Madejski Centre for Reputation at the University of Reading's Henley Management College write that the nebulous nature of the phrase (the unclear nature of \"what is and what is not thought leadership\") contributes to its reputation among cynics as \"meaningless management speak.\" Some writers, such as \"Harvard Business Review\" contributor Dorie Clark, have defended the phrase, while agreeing \"that it is very icky when people call themselves thought leaders because that sounds a little bit egomaniacal.\"\n\n\"New York Times\" columnist David Brooks mocked the lifecycle of the role in a satirical column entitled \"The Thought Leader,\" published in December 2013.\n\nA parody on the term was published in 2016 of Chris Kelly on Canadian television's \"This is That\" program. In the process of the discussion, imitating TED talks, Kelly elicits responses from the audience that exemplify the effect he describes as the result of applying well-known marketing techniques to achieve the impression of being an erudite speaker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2202100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202100", "title": "Transcortical motor aphasia", "text": "Transcortical motor aphasia\n\nTranscortical motor aphasia (TMoA), also known as commissural dysphasia or white matter dysphasia, results from damage in the anterior superior frontal lobe of the language-dominant hemisphere. This damage is typically due to cerebrovascular accident (CVA). TMoA is generally characterized by reduced speech output, which is a result of dysfunction of the affected region of the brain. The left hemisphere is usually responsible for performing language functions, although left-handed individuals have been shown to perform language functions using either their left or right hemisphere depending on the individual. The anterior frontal lobes of the language-dominant hemisphere are essential for initiating and maintaining speech. Because of this, individuals with TMoA often present with difficulty in speech maintenance and initiation.\n\nDamage in the watershed region does not directly harm the areas of the brain involved in language production or comprehension; instead, the damage isolates these areas from the rest of the brain. If there is damage to the frontal lobe, executive functions related to language use are often affected. Executive functions relevant to language include activating language responses, controlling syntax (grammar), and narrative discourse. Difficulties in these areas can lead to supplementary deficits involving difficulties forming complex sentences, choosing which words to use appropriately, and initiating speech in conversation.\n\nThe extent and location of the brain damage will impact the degree and variety of language functioning characteristics (i.e. damage deep to the frontal lobe and/or damage across multiple regions will greatly impair language). Right hemiparesis, or right-sided paralysis, may coincide with TMoA if the lesion in the anterior frontal lobe is large enough and extends into the posterior frontal lobe.\n\nThere are some other forms of aphasia that relate to TMoA. For instance, adynamic aphasia is a form of TMoA that is characterized by sparse speech. This occurs as a result of executive functioning in the frontal lobe. Another form of aphasia related to TMoA is dynamic aphasia. Patients with this form of aphasia may present with a contiguity disorder in which they have difficulty combining linguistic elements. For dynamic aphasia, this is most apparent when the patient is asked to sequence at the sentence level whereas for other aphasias contiguity disorder can be seen at the phoneme or word level.\n\nTMoA is classified as a non-fluent aphasia that is characterized by a significantly reduced output of speech, but good auditory comprehension. Auditory comprehension skills remain intact because the arcuate fasciculus and Wernicke's area are not impaired. Individuals with TMoA also exhibit good repetition skills and can repeat long, complex phrases effortlessly and without error. However, spontaneous speech often presents with paraphasias (a term used to describe a wide variety of speech errors that are caused by aphasia). Regardless of any relative communication strengths, individuals with TMoA are typically poor conversational partners. Due to damage in the anterior superior frontal lobe, people with TMoA have deficits in initiation and maintenance of conversations, which results in reduced speech output. A person with TMoA may seldomly produce utterances and typically remain silent. The utterances that they do produce are typically only one to two words long. However, in more structured and predictable interactions, individuals with TMoA tend to respond more fluently and promptly. In addition, these individuals are characterized by their attentiveness and cooperation and are often described as being task-oriented.\n\nNeurological imaging has shown that TMoA is typically caused by an infarct of the anterior superior frontal lobe in the perisylvian area of the left, or language-dominant, hemisphere. The anterior superior frontal lobe is known as the prefrontal cortex which is responsible for the initiation and ideation of verbal speech. The damage leaves the major language networks, Broca’s and Wernicke’s areas and the arcuate fasiculus, unaffected. Brain injury can result from a stroke caused by left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) occlusion, brain tumors, traumatic brain injury (TBI), or progressive neurological disorders.\n\nTMoA is diagnosed by the referring physician and speech-language pathologist (SLP). The overall sign of TMoA is nonfluent, reduced, fragmentary echoic, and perseverative speech with frequent hesitations and pauses. Patients with TMoA also have difficulty initiating and maintaining speech. However, speech articulation and auditory comprehension remain typical. The hallmark sign of TMoA is intact repetition in the presence of these signs and symptoms.\n\nTMoA, or any other type of aphasia, is identified and diagnosed through the screening and assessment process. Screening can be conducted by a SLP or other professional when there is a suspected aphasia. The screening does not diagnose aphasia, rather it points to the need for a further comprehensive assessment. A screening typically includes evaluation of oral motor functions, speech production skills, comprehension, use of written and verbal language, cognitive communication, swallowing, and hearing. Both the screening and assessment must be sensitive to the patient’s linguistic and cultural differences. An individual will be recommended to receive a comprehensive assessment if their screening shows signs of aphasia. Under the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) and World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines and the \"International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health\" (ICF) framework, the comprehensive assessment encompasses not only speech and language, but also impairments in body structure and function, co-morbid deficits, limitations in activity and participation, and contextual (environmental and personal) factors. The assessment can be static (current functioning) or dynamic (ongoing) and the assessment tools can be standardized or nonstandardized. Typically, the assessment for aphasia includes a gathering of a case history, a self-report from the patient, an oral-motor examination, assessment of expressive and receptive language in spoken and written forms, and identification of facilitators and barriers to patient success. From this assessment, the SLP will determine type of aphasia and the patient's communicative strengths and weaknesses and how their diagnosis may impact their overall quality of life.\n\nTreatment for all types of aphasia, including transcortical motor aphasia, is usually provided by a speech-language pathologist. The SLP chooses specific therapy tasks and goals based on the speech and language abilities and needs of the individual. In general for individuals with TMoA, treatment should capitalize on their strong auditory comprehension and repetition skills and address the individual's reduced speech output and difficulty initiating and maintaining a conversation. New research in aphasia treatment is showing the benefit of the Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA) in which goals are written based on the skills needed by the individual patient to participate in specific real-life situations (i.e. communicating effectively with nurses or gaining employment). Based on the specific needs of the patient, SLPs can provide a variety of treatment activities.\n\nTo improve word retrieval and initiation difficulties, clinicians may use confrontation naming in which the patient is asked to name various objects and pictures. Depending on the severity, they may also use sentence completion tasks in which the clinician says sentences with the final word(s) missing and expects the patient to fill in the blank. Limited research suggests that nonsymbolic limb movement on the left side (i.e. tapping the left hand on the table) during sentence production can increase verbal initiations. The use of the left arm in left space stimulates initiation mechanisms in the right hemisphere of the brain which can also be used for language allowing individuals to produce more grammatical sentences with higher fluency and more verbal initiation.\n\nTo increase speech output, the clinician may provide a set of pictures and prompt the patient to describe or elaborate on the events pictured. The clinician can also provide spoken or written words and prompt the patient to use the words in a sentence. Additionally, the clinician can ask questions based on the patient’s experiences, opinions, or general knowledge and prompt the patient to answer with phrases or sentences. To work on more connected speech, the clinician may ask the patient to describe procedures such as making a sandwich or doing laundry. A study found that syntax training in which sentence constructions are elicited on a hierarchy of difficulty produced gains in grammatically complete utterances and utterances that successfully communicated novel and accurate information.\n\nTo improve conversational skills, SLPs may engage the patient in structured conversations in which supports are provided to help the patient take appropriate conversational turns, maintain the topic of conversation, and formulate appropriate sentences. Clinicians often need to provide pragmatic guidelines so that the patient’s responses go beyond the clinician’s request and so the clinician does not do the majority of the talking. Research shows that conversation therapy can improve percent of complex utterances, the efficiency of the utterances for expressing ideas, and total time spent talking over more traditional stimulation therapy.\n\nIn order to improve the patient’s abilities to functionally communicate in their natural settings, the SLP will provide strategies and techniques to enhance their success in communicative settings (i.e. supplementing speech with nonverbal communication). Research supports the use of reduced syntax therapy to help patients overcome the non-fluent speech and agrammatism that often occurs with TMoA. Because agrammatism inhibits the patient's ability to form grammatically correct sentences, this type of treatment involves reducing these agrammatic deficits and teaching the patient to simplify linguistic structures while still conveying the message in order for language used to be more productive in conversation.\n\nAdditionally, they may train the patient’s communication partners to support the conversational abilities of the patient by facilitating the use of preserved cognitive and social functions. Research supports the use of various partner training programs such as Supported Conversation for Adults with Aphasia from the Aphasia Institute. In this program, the focus is put on acknowledging the patient’s competence and helping them to reveal that competence. Strategies include saying “I know you know” when appropriate, using gestures to supplement messages, limiting background noise, and given sufficient time for response.\n\nFrom a neuroscience perspective, research has found that a dopamine agonist, bromocriptine, taken by mouth, has provided positive outcomes during intervention for non-fluent types of aphasia, such as TMoA or adynamic aphasia. Studies have found that bromocriptine increased neural networks which assist with the initiation of speech in individuals who possess non-fluent characteristics of speech.\n\nIn order to capitalize on neuroplasticity for treatment of all types of aphasia, timing, intensity, duration, and repetition of treatment should be taken into consideration. Research has found that aphasia treatment initiated during the earlier acute post-injury phase is more effective compared to treatment initiated in the chronic phase. With regard to intensity and duration of treatment, studies reported maximum recovery occurred with intense weekly therapy (approximately 8 hours per week) was delivered over a 2–3 month period. Other research shows that distributed therapy may be more beneficial than high intensity therapy. More research is needed to determine which is best, but it may be found that the ideal duration and intensity of therapy is variable depending on the patient and their needs.\n\nIn relation to other types of aphasia, TMoA occurs less frequently, so there is less information on its prognosis. In general, for individuals with aphasia, most recovery is seen within 6 months of the stroke or injury although more recovery may continue in the following months or years. The timeline of recovery may look different depending on the type of stroke that caused the aphasia. With an ischemic stroke, recovery is greatest within the first two weeks and then diminishes overtime until the progress stabilizes. With a hemorrhagic stroke, the patient often shows little improvement in the first few weeks and then has relatively rapid recovery until they stabilize.\n\nIn a study involving eight patients with border zone lesions, all patients presented with transcortical mixed aphasia initially after the stroke. Three of these patients made a complete recovery within a few days post-stroke. For three other patients with more anterior lesions, their aphasia transitioned to TMoA. All participants in the study regained full language abilities within 18 months following their stroke. This suggests a positive long-term prognosis for patients with TMoA. However, this might not be the case for all patients and more research is needed in order to solidify these findings. Another study found that prognosis of TMoA is affected by lesion size. Smaller lesions typically cause delays in speech initiation; whereas, larger lesions lead to more profound language abnormalities and difficulty with abstract language abilities.\n\nResearch has shown that treatment has a direct effect on aphasia outcomes. Intensity, duration and timing of treatment all need to be taken in to consideration when choosing a course of treatment and determining a prognosis. In general, greater intensity leads to greater improvement. For duration, longer-term treatment produces more permanent changes. As for timing, beginning treatment too early may be difficult for the system which has not recovered enough to do intensive therapy, but beginning too late may result missing the window of the opportunity in which the most change can occur. Neuroplasticity, the brain's natural ability to reorganize itself following a traumatic event, occurs best when treatment connects simultaneous events, maintains attention, taps into positive emotion, utilizes repetition tasks, and is specific to the individual's needs.\n\nOther factors affecting prognosis includes location and site of lesion. Since the lesion that results in TMoA usually occurs in the watershed area and does not directly involve the areas of the brain responsible for general language abilities, prognosis for these patients is good overall. Other factors that determine a patient’s prognosis include age, education prior to the stroke, gender, motivation, and support.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
