{"id": "4474310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4474310", "title": "Abortion in Iran", "text": "Abortion in Iran\n\nAbortion in Iran has been the subject of internal controversy for many years. Iran's abortion policy has been notoriously quick to change in accordance with changes in the regime; most significantly, the more modern policies developed by the government of Reza Shah under his family planning programs and moves towards more Western social policy were quickly deposed by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini after he took power from the deposed shah in the Iranian Revolution of 1979.\n\nAbortion was first legalized in 1978. In April 2005, the Iranian Parliament approved a new bill easing the conditions by also allowing abortion in certain cases when the fetus shows signs of handicap, and the Council of Guardians accepted the bill in 15/June/2005.\nAbortion is currently legal in cases where the mother's life is in danger, and also in cases of fetal abnormalities that makes it not viable after birth (such as anencephaly) or produce difficulties for mother to take care of it after birth, such as major thalassemia or bilateral polycystic kidney disease. There is no need for a consent from the father and request and consent of mother with approval of three specialist physicians and final acceptance by legal medicine center suffices. Legal abortion is allowed only before 19th week of pregnancy.\n\nMuch of the controversy has historically stemmed from Iran's status as a theocracy as it was established after the 1979 revolution; many policies, including those concerning social topics, are based on sharia law as interpreted from the Qur'an through the nation's Shi'a legal philosophy. While abortion is not actually referenced in the Qur'an, infanticide is specifically condemned, and this has been used as an argument to keep abortion illegal in most or all cases in which it might be sought. The sections of the Qur'an that detail the importance of health for women have been used to combat this argument, and have been moderately successful at changing the reactionary legislation against abortion enacted after 1979. Nowadays, most Islamic legal schools of thought hold that the ensoulment of a fetus takes place four months after conception, which has extended the discussion of abortion in many nations and communities that base their judicial codes off of Islamic law; in Iran, a consensus has recently developed that abortion is legitimate if it is before this four-month mark.\n\nArguing for the legality or partial legality of abortion has the potential to be successful in Iran only if it is through religious discourse. All religious ruling in Iran has its final approval or veto assigned by the Guardian Council, a reviewing and regulatory body that has the ability to support or strike down all policies of Iran.\n\nThere is a long history of abortion in Iran. In medieval Iran, it was not shocking to have plant-based agents of abortion and their relative effectiveness listed in physicians' texts; other means of abortion were also described with warnings and instructions for treatment of the woman after the procedure. The dissemination and translation of different medical texts to and from China, India, Greece, and Persia led to attempts to develop extensive lists of all medical practices, including abortion, and the practice is described in detail in texts from many different regions. One text, written by physician and jurist Hakim Esmail Jorjani (1042-1137 AD), gives instruction for the appropriate use of natural abortifacients, with the caveat that these instructions are meant only for \"a very young mother who fears she may die...or when there is disease in the uterus\". For a long time, abortion in Persia (and then Iran) was a legal gray area, which may explain why it was not uncommon to describe the correct procedure. Natural abortifacients continued to be used for centuries in Iran, and national law said little about the practice itself until European colonial and imperial intervention in the area. Because of this, up until the last years of the shah's regime, Iranian policy on abortion was partially based on parts of Islamic law and parts of law from the French colonial empire, which had carried influence in the region for some time.\n\nThe immediate pre-revolutionary period was full of stops and starts in terms of social policy and family planning in Iran, as the regime of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi fell in and out of favor with Iranians in quick fluctuation, eventually collapsing in the 1979 revolution. The pointed nationalism of the shah's government in the early 1960s made for a generally pronatal policy, as the White Revolution began to reform social and economic law; families were encouraged to have children, and the country was set to expand until the shah began a national family planning program in 1967, when the country's extreme population growth made officials worry about resources diminishing too quickly. Abortion became legal at that time under a set of circumstances and restrictions; in fact, a law passed in 1977 even allowed abortion on request. A law a year earlier \"broadened access and granted an official license\" for abortions to be performed in medical facilities such as clinics and hospitals. Abortions were legal so long as the pregnancy had not exceeded twelve weeks, the ensoulment period - or, if it had, so long as the mother's life was endangered specifically by carrying the child to term.\n\nThe conversation about abortion had begun even before the shah's family planning program in 1967, however; a new global interest in reproductive health and progress in contraception and sexual health matters led a gynecologist in Iran to receive a fatwa from Ayatollah Mahallati of Shiraz that approved of, and even encouraged, contraception with the aim of reducing unwanted pregnancies among Iranian families. One of the reasons the legality of abortion was debated in such open air at this time was that the number of women who had abortion declined in Iran in the 1960s due to increased use of contraceptives.\n\nAfter the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Iranian public policy in general began to go in a more conservative direction. Iran joined a small list of nations including Saudi Arabia and Sudan to use Islamic law in every possible question of jurisprudence—a trait that still characterizes Iran today. \n\nThe 1991 law of Islamic Penalties stated that though abortion was still legally prohibited, it could be allowed to save the life of the mother. This law stands today as a background for further discourse on legalizing abortion in Iran. The legal medicine organization that had the ability to approve of the abortion of a fetus suffering from a specified list of problems was a bureaucratic system that made actual approval hard to obtain. Nearly half of the applicants in the 1999-2000 year were not accepted. Abortion is still \"haram\", or forbidden, according to both Islamic law and to post-revolutionary Iranian law, and the punishments for providing or receiving an illegal abortion can be strict. Under current law, physicians can be sentenced to months of imprisonment, and women who get abortions before ensoulment are at the least fined blood money. In other cases, for example if the abortion takes place after ensoulment, the punishments are more severe: both woman and physician can be sentenced to up to ten years' imprisonment. This is because of the fact that after much debate over the possible legality of abortion in general, the 16-week limit (when ensoulment is believed to happen) was determined by all involved in that policymaking as the last possible time to have a legal abortion for any reason. Regardless of this baseline, the policies now in place regarding the legality of receiving or providing an abortion are vague in some places.\n\nAs a global trend, in recent years, it has become more common for members of relatively developed nations to bring up the question of selective abortion, as science about genetics and techniques for predicting and improving neonatal health has become both more advanced and more common. Iran has been no different; in fact, it is one of the few governments in the Middle East and North Africa that actively supports programs in sexual and reproductive health for its young people. While abortion remains technically illegal in most cases, and in all cases once the pregnancy passes the ensoulment time of 16 weeks, the government has expanded upon its earlier caveat concerning maternal health.\n\nIn 2005, the Legal Medicine Organization of Iran created a list of 29 fetal problems and 32 maternal issues in pregnancy that indicated that abortion might possibly be legal—only if, however, it was determined that the life of the mother and the fetus were both endangered if the pregnancy went through, and that the mother could be saved by an abortion. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei issued a \"fatwa\" to this effect, allowing abortion in the first trimester for these special cases. The Therapeutic Abortion Act of 2005, passed by the Iranian parliament, stated that if the reason for an abortion was not one of the 61 listed disorders or abnormalities, the cases could be referred to the physician and then the organization, which would decide on an appropriate course of action. The ambiguity of the guidelines for acceptance and the unpredictability of health during pregnancy, however, has not created much definition in the gray area that is Iranian abortion policy. In fact, the Guardian Council rejected the Therapeutic Abortion Act after its passage in 2005, adding to the confusion.\n\nToday, most abortions happen \"in unsafe and hazardous circumstances\" because the penalties for receiving or giving an abortion can still be quite strict. Common reasons for getting an abortion range from fertility concerns (i. e., already having many children), possible or existing health complications, and socio-economic impediments to pregnancy, such as not being able to support another child. In a nation whose economy depends almost solely on oil, with 50% of revenue coming from those earnings, the distribution of wealth can be strained, and for many families it is not feasible to have many children despite the government's use of oil money to fund statewide welfare systems. With abortion counting for 5% of maternal deaths by some estimates, it is evident that illegal and unsupervised practice of the procedure does occur, and furthermore that it can be quite dangerous to the mother; and with 34% of surveyed pregnant Iranian women in one study reporting their pregnancies as \"unintended\", it has been noted that the danger has not disappeared in the shift from firm illegality and condemnation of abortion in Iran to its place in a current legal limbo.\n\nThe abortion rate in Iran is contested, and many surveys on the topic land with estimated numbers as opposed to hard data. This is due not only to the inherent difficulty in reaching all populations of Iran, which is a diverse country with large groups of the poor and rural, but also because of the sensitivity of the issue; especially in highly religious groups, the questioning about abortion trends is difficult, and the on-and-off receipt of honest answers has the potential to skew data in a way that makes real conclusions rather vague.\n\nThe abortion rate does vary significantly among Iran's provinces, but estimates include .26 lifetime abortions per Iranian woman, an estimated 73,000 a year, 27 abortions per 1000 women and 7.5 abortions per 1000 married women, and 11,543 abortions annually in Tehran, the nation's capitol. These statistics are as scholarly accepted as other quite dissimilar ones, such as one study's claim that more than a thousand unsafe abortions \"take place every day in Iran\" and another that reports that 100,000 younger women have illegal or induced abortions annually. The exact numbers on abortion in Iran are thus unknown, but there are some trends in the practice that have been widely reported and verified.\n\nAll over the world, there is a negative correlation between the use of contraceptives and the abortion rate; as the world adapts to new and accessible technologies developed for family planning and reproductive health, Iran is one of many nations that has found a lower rate of abortion in those areas that have higher rates of contraceptive use, which accounts for governmental acceptance and support of family planning and sexual health programs for the young. Additionally, ardent religious objections against the practice of abortion have become less legitimate in the eyes of many, especially in the middle and higher classes of Iran, as developments such as pre-natal genetic testing make abortion more of a viable option in the case of a difficult pregnancy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25939787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25939787", "title": "Abortion in Portugal", "text": "Abortion in Portugal\n\nAbortion laws in Portugal were liberalized on April 10, 2007, allowing the procedure to be done on-demand if a woman's pregnancy has not exceeded its tenth week. There is a three-day waiting period for abortions. President Aníbal Cavaco Silva ratified the law allowing abortion, recommending nevertheless that measures should be taken to ensure abortion is the last resort. Despite the liberalization of the laws, in practice, many doctors refuse to perform abortions (which they are allowed to do under a conscientious objection clause) as Portugal remains a country where the Catholic tradition has a significant influence. Abortions at later stages are allowed for specific reasons, such as risk to woman's health reasons, rape and other sexual crimes, or fetal malformation; with restrictions increasing gradually at 12, 16 and 24 weeks. The law was signed into law after a February 2007 referendum approved of liberalizing the abortion laws.\n\nBefore April 2007, abortion was regulated by Law 6/84 and Law 90/97, and was strongly restricted, allowed only for health reasons, rape and sexual crimes, and fetal malformation. Although during that period the abortion laws in Portugal were relatively similar to those of neighboring Spain, in practice, the law was given a much stricter interpretation in Portugal than in Spain, and obtaining a legal abortion was quite difficult.\nA previous referendum in June 1998 failed to liberalize the abortion law by a slim margin.\n\n, the abortion rate was 9.0 abortions per 1000 women aged 15–44 years.\n\nIn February 2016, the Portuguese Parliament overrode Anibal Cavaco Silva's veto and officially reversed a law instituting mandatory counseling and medical payments for women seeking an abortion through the public health service which had been rushed through by the previous conservative government when it was already in recess before the elections of October 2015 and had no powers to enact any legislation. The president signed the bill into law on 19 February 2016.\n"}
{"id": "23566024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23566024", "title": "American Agricultural Law Association", "text": "American Agricultural Law Association\n\nThe American Agricultural Law Association (AALA) is a professional organization focusing on the legal needs of the agricultural community in the United States. The association was founded in 1980.\n\nThe AALA’s stated vision Is:\n The AALA holds an annual two-day educational symposium that offers Continuing Legal Education credit and an update on many of the most significant current agricultural law issues. It is held in a different U.S. city each year, generally in October. It is attended by over 200 attorneys. The 2017 symposium will be held in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nThe AALA has a membership listserv, providing members with a national network of connections and a website with helpful agricultural law information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15598580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15598580", "title": "Anisodus tanguticus", "text": "Anisodus tanguticus\n\nAnisodus tanguticus is a species of flowering plant in the family Solanaceae which includes many important agricultural plants. It is mostly found growing in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. \"A. tanguticus\" is collected and used mostly for its medicinal effects thought to be derived from the plant's biologically active nicotine and tropane alkaloids. It has a significant impact in China as one of the 50 fundamental herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nThe generic name \"Anisodus\" is a compound of the Greek words \"anisos\" 'unequal' and \"odous\",\"odontos\" 'tooth', hence signifying 'having teeth of different lengths' - so called from the observation that certain species have calyces featuring lobes or teeth of unequal length.\nThe specific name \"tanguticus\" is a geographical epithet, signifying 'belonging to the Tangut region' i.e. 'growing in the land of the Tangut people' - which includes the region of Amdo, one of the three traditional regions of Tibet (taking in the modern Chinese province of Qinghai and part of the south of the modern Chinese province of Gansu). Historically, the Tangut, or Western Xia empire included, at its greatest extent, also parts of what are now the Chinese provinces of Ningxia, northern Shaanxi, northeastern Xinjiang, southwestern Inner Mongolia and southernmost Outer Mongolia - all of which in fact lie outside the range of \"Anisodus tanguticus\".\n\n\"Anisodus tanguticus\" is more commonly known in China as shān làngdàng (山莨菪) or Zang Qie (transliterated also Tsang-ch'ieh).\n\n\"Anisodus tanguticus\" is a perennial plant. It has flowers that are mostly solitary and borne in leaf axils. The flowers are mostly star shaped and radial. Most of them are nodding but they can sometimes become erect.\n\nThe pedicels are of variable length, averaging around and may be either glabrous or pubescent.\n\nThe calyx is usually infundibuliform (funnel-shaped) and around in length.\n\nMost of the calyx lobes of A. tanguticus appear broadly dentate. Closer examination of these lobes generally reveals one or two lobes to be broader and longer than the others. The apices of these lobes may be either acute or obtuse and the lobes themselves are slightly unequal and glabrous.\n\nThe infundibuliform corolla ranges in colour through varying shades and zonations of purple through to occasional wholly pale yellow to green forms, the individual petals making up the corolla reaching between 2.5–4 cm in length.\n\nThe stamens are inserted at the base of the corolla tube and are half the length of the corolla. The filaments are about 0.8 cm long and are hairless.\n\nThe anthers are oblong in shape and around in length, dehiscing longitudinally at maturity.\n\nThe ovary is conical, bearing styles that are approximately long. The stigma is discoidal and somewhat dehiscent at maturity.\n\nInsect pollinators of the plant include flies, honeybees, and ants.\n\n\"A. tanguticus\" is found growing (on grassy sunny slopes) principally on the Tibetan Plateau, its range extending from the Hengduan Mountains of Sichuan and Yunnan in the east, through Qinghai and Gansu to the northwest, Tibet in the west, and Nepal in the south. It is present from altitudes of . Populations of \"A. tanguticus\" in this region have decreased significantly due to extensive harvesting of the species for medicinal purposes, resulting (since the roots are the part harvested) in the removal of plants in their entirety.\n\nDue to its distribution on the Tibetan Plateau, which includes many mountains and valleys, \"A. tanguticus\" can be found in very isolated areas relative to another patch of the same plant. This has led to a high level of genetic differentiation of \"A. tanguticus\".\n\nIt is frequently found growing in the vicinity of settlements and monasteries, thriving as it does in soils nutrient-rich through the regular depositing of horse and cattle dung.\n\n\"A. tanguticus\" () is one of the 50 fundamental herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nIt contains high levels of the tropane alkaloids hyoscyamine and scopolamine, which affect primarily the parasympathetic nervous system and can act as anticholinergic agents.\n\n\"A. tanguticus\" is grown and harvested in order to extract two alkaloids, anisodamine and anisodine, which can be obtained from the roots of the plant. These alkaloids are used as anticholinergic drugs in China for acute circulatory shock. Anisodamine in particular was introduced into clinical use in China in 1965 through the manufacture of a synthetic drug that concentrated the alkaloids from the plant. It was first used to treat epidemic meningitis, but was later used to treat other ailments, including glomerulonephritis, rheumatoid arthritis, hemorrhagic necrotic enteritis, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and circulatory shock. \nAnisodamine has also been found to be highly beneficial in cases of noise-induced hearing loss, dilating the capillaries and improving microcirculation in the bony labyrinth; while Anisodine has been used clinically for migraine and diseases of the fundus occuli due to vasospasm.\n\nThe population of \"A. tanguticus\" is starting to dwindle in its main habitat of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of China. This can be attributed not only to the effects of over-collection, as a medicinal species, but also to a low rate of seed germination in \"A. tanguticus\" - even under most natural conditions. This is probably due to the relative impermeability of the testa of its seeds which tends to prevent water absorption and acts also to inhibit gaseous exchange. The seeds of \"A. tanguticus\" are therefore classified as having coat-imposed dormancy.\n\nA study was conducted in an effort to find the most effective method of breaking seed dormancy in the species in order to increase rates of germination. Several combinations of treatments (which included chilling, gibberellic acid, and mechanical scarification) were employed.\n\nThe mechanical scarification method (which involves the breaking, scratching, or softening of the seed coat) was found to be the only way to increase germination. The rate improved to about 70% and the germination time was improved to 4.1 days.\n\nThe study was undertaken in an effort to find ways of increasing the population of the plant.\n\n"}
{"id": "50802919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50802919", "title": "Anti-DNase B", "text": "Anti-DNase B\n\nAnti-Deoxyribonuclease B (Anti-DNase B) titres are a quantitative measure of the presence of serologic antibodies obtained from patients suspected of having a recent group A (Beta-hemolytic) streptococcus bacteria infection, from \"Streptococcus pyogenes\".\n\nIn a patient with suspected post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis, anti-streptolysin-O titres (ASOTs) can be negative even after strep pharyngitis. Some studies suggest that up to 85% of patients with acute rheumatic fever from group A strep infection will be positive for ASO titers, leaving 15% of patients having been diagnosed with rheumatic fever negative for ASO titers. In addition and contrary to percentages seen in strep pharyngitis, strep skin infection induces ASO antibodies less often, which can be problematic for physicians searching for a cause of the glomerulonephritis and having a high suspicion that its etiology was strep.\n\nPost-streptococcus glomerulonephritis is more often associated with group A strep skin infection than it is with strep pharyngitis, so in a patient with suspected post-strep glomerulonephritis with a negative ASO titer, one can then obtain Anti-DNase-B titers which are more sensitive for group A strep and for its various strains. Anti-DNase B antibody titers also stay elevated for longer, which is useful since often ASO titers may rise, but then fall prior to the onset of the glomerulonephritis where the onset of disease is often greater than 2 weeks after the infection resolved. In this way anti-DNase B titers are very useful to clinicians and allow for evidence of the recent infection to be seen and levels of this antibody to be quantified.\n"}
{"id": "10189699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10189699", "title": "Centric relation", "text": "Centric relation\n\nIn dentistry, centric relation is the mandibular jaw position in which the head of the condyle is situated as far anterior and superior as it possibly can within the mandibular fossa/glenoid fossa.\n\nIt is defined as, \"\"The maxillo-mandibular relationship in which the condyles articulate with the thinnest avascular portion of their respective discs with the complex in the anterior-superior position against the slopes of the articular eminences. This position is independent of tooth contact. This position is clinically discernible when the mandible is directed superiorly and posteriorly. It is restricted to a purely rotary movement about the transverse horizontal axis\". — GPT.\"\n\nThis position is used when restoring edentulous patients with removable or either implant-supported hybrid or fixed prostheses. Because the dentist wants to be able to reproducibly relate the patient's maxilla and mandible, but the patient does not have teeth with which to establish his or her own vertical dimension of occlusion, another method has been devised to achieve this goal. The condyle can only be in the same place as it was the last time it was positioned by the dentist if it is consistently moved to the most superior and anterior position within the fossa.\n\nIt is a physiologic position that is used for reproducibility. The Temporomandibular Joint is not restricted to Centric Relation in function. At the most superior position, the condyle-disc assemblies are braced medially, thus centric relation is also the midmost position. A properly aligned condyle-disc assembly in centric relation can resist maximum loading by the elevator muscles with no sign of discomfort. It also allows for the most repeatable and recordable position and therefore should be used when designing an appropriate occlusion.\n\nMethods of Recording Centric Relation:\n\n"}
{"id": "22314323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22314323", "title": "Centrum (multivitamin)", "text": "Centrum (multivitamin)\n\nCentrum is a brand of multivitamins produced by Pfizer (formerly Wyeth). \n\nIn 2012, the Physicians' Health Study II (PHS-II) found that participants who took a Centrum-brand multivitamin each day for an average of 11 years had no change in cancer mortality or cardiovascular disease mortality compared to the placebo group. The authors did find a slight reduction in cancer incidences, although this conclusion was questioned in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\".\n\nOn October 17, 2012, researchers reported on a double-blind study of 14,641 male U.S. physicians initially aged 50 years or older (mean age of 64.3, standard deviation 9.2 years), that began in 1997 with treatment and follow-up through June 1, 2011. They compared total cancer (excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer) for participants taking a daily multivitamin (Centrum Silver by Pfizer) versus placebo. Compared with placebo, men taking a daily multivitamin had a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of total cancer, with a hazard ratio (HR) = 0.92 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.86-0.998; P = .04). No statistically significant effects were found for any specific cancers or cancer mortality. The 95% CI of the hazard ratio implied a benefit of between 14% and .2% over placebo. In absolute terms the difference was 1.3 cancer diagnoses, per 1000 years of life (18.3-17 events, respectively). The median follow up time was 11.2 years. The paper's co-principal investigator, Dr. J. Michael Gaziano, a cardiologist, was quoted by \"The New York Times\" as saying \"it certainly appears there is a modest reduction in the risk of cancer from a typical multivitamin.\" The study was also featured in a \"Wall Street Journal\" article on October 17, 2012.\n\nAn editorial in the same issue of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" (JAMA), reflecting the opinion of JAMA, was dismissive of the report on several counts. First, they said, \"it seems unlikely that a common characteristic across all diseases included under this wide category of cancer would be a protective effect from multivitamins\", suggesting if no specific cancer was effected, why would general cancer risk be so affected. Second, they questioned the study's abilities to deliver on the question of whether a multivitamin would be protective in a well-nourished population (Bayesian probability) stating: \"The plausibility of a protective effect is reduced by the absence of a clear path through which 30 different vitamins and minerals would cause a decline in the risk of multiple cancers and, especially, by the negative pattern of prior results.\" In addition the investigators observed no difference in effect whether the study participants were or were not adherent to the multivitamin intervention, which diminishes the dose–response relationship.\n\nThe editorial was critical of the statistical multiplicity (multiple comparisons): the complete planned analysis of the primary and secondary end points in the PHS II study would entail 28 tests of association; each of which has \"some possibility of yielding a statistically significant result by chance alone, even when there is no true treatment effect. [...] when this finding is considered in the context of the number of already completed and planned analyses of the same study, the strength of the inference is weaker, because the likelihood of a randomly occurring finding [...] is much greater.\" They concluded that any of the conventional P value corrections for multiple comparisons would eliminate the apparent \"statistical significance\" of the results.\n\nFrom the same double-blind study, they found that taking a daily multivitamin did not have any effect in reducing heart attacks and other major cardiovascular events, MI, stroke, and CVD mortality.\n\n"}
{"id": "26788131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26788131", "title": "Clinical and Translational Science", "text": "Clinical and Translational Science\n\nClinical and Translational Science is a bimonthly peer-reviewed open-access medical journal covering translational medicine. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell and is an official journal of the American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics. The journal was established in 2008 and the editor-in-chief is John A. Wagner (Takeda Pharmaceuticals International).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2016 impact factor is 0.860.\n"}
{"id": "20683275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683275", "title": "Defence Services Medical Academy", "text": "Defence Services Medical Academy\n\nThe Defence Services Medical Academy (DSMA) (, ), located in Mingaladon, Yangon, is the University of Medicine of the Myanmar Armed Forces. One of the most selective universities in the country, the academy offers M.B., B.S. (equivalent of the M.D.) degree programs. Upon graduation, most DSMA cadets are commissioned with the rank of Lieutenant in the Myanmar Army Medical Corps. The military physicians are to serve the healthcare needs of rural people when they are assigned in the country's remote regions where access to healthcare is poor.\n\nThe DSMA was founded in 1992 as the Defence Services Institute of Medicine (DSIM) to develop physicians to serve in the Tatmadaw Myanmar Armed Forces. Prior to the founding of the academy, the Tatmadaw had recruited its medical and dental officers from civilian medical school graduates, who had to undergo a month-long basic military training program at the Medical Corps Center. While the medical corps of the Tatmadaw had always been short of physicians, by the early 1990s, the shortage became more pronounced as the military government, fearing student unrest, had shut down most civilian universities, following the 8888 Uprising in 1988. Most civilian universities were closed off and on for much of the 1990s. The military run universities essentially became the only venue for those who wished to continue university education inside the country.\n\nThe DSIM was operated by the Ministry of Health and the Directorate of Medical Services. The purported \"aim of the DSMA is to produce good Medical officers endowed with brilliant physical and mental ability to safeguard The Three Main National Causes\" espoused by the military government.\n\nThe first batch of 47 cadets from the DSIM were commissioned as lieutenants on 17 December 1999, after six years of study and a year as house-surgeons. Through nine intakes, the DSMA produced a total of 1525 medical officers. As of 2008, the DSMA had produced seven Doctor of Medical Science degree holders. The academy is only source of medical officers for the DMS. In terms of Master of Medical Science, by the early 2008, the DSMA had produced 335 specialists, including 48 physicians and 41 surgeons.\n\nNowadays, many army doctors' clinics can be seen in Yangon and specialists of army hospital are also practicing at many private hospitals and clinics. Army doctors are serving the country both in rural and urban regions in the form of private and public practice.\n\nThe academy accepts approximately 400 students annually. Unlike at the country's other four civilian medical schools, the selection process goes beyond high University Entrance Examination scores. All prospective candidates must be male and must have high enough college matriculation exam scores to enter any civilian medical university. In addition, the prospective student must sit for another entrance exam as well as physical and psychological exams. After 2010, the matriculation examination marks are not considered for entrance. Personal interview becomes the most important step for entrance. The academy has accepted fewer than 100 students a year since 2010, and only 40 students are accepted to DSMA in 2012.\n\nThe selection criteria are:\n\nThe entrance selection including physical fitness tests, teamwork and comradeship screening, psychometric assessments and general interviews process takes about five to seven days at Officer Testing Team (OTT). Only those who pass all the tests and steps above are admitted to the DSMA. Students are eligible for state scholarship programs.\n\nThe benefit of being a student at DSMA is to get a stipend after acceptance to the school and faster career development than civilian medical doctors. The salary is higher than civilian doctors.\n\nThe DSMA offers courses for both basic and advanced degrees in medicine and surgery, and runs 20 graduate programs in medical sciences.\n\nNowadays, many army doctors are studying in public health master's degree locally as well as internationally.The new generation army doctors are likely to take the duty at Ministry of Health and influence the Myanmar health system set up.\n\nThe DSMA is equipped with lab materials, modern textbooks, and training resources. As intern surgeons, the students must take a field practical tour of duty at military hospitals, where they get field training from professional surgeons. The academy is open year round, and is in session for eleven months of study in an academic year—ten months of medical science coursework plus a month of military science and military leadership. Some DSMA graduates continue their post-graduate education in the UK, India, Thailand, Russia, United States, Germany, Belgium and Singapore.\n\nThe M.B., B.S. coursework extends for 7 years and is the same as the major coursework of civilian medical schools such as the University of Medicine 1, Yangon and the University of Medicine 2, Yangon.\n\nLanguage & Communication\n\n\n\nAll cadets are posted for 18 weeks each to the medical and surgical wards for clinical training at the school's teaching hospitals in Yangon.\n\n\nStudents attend lectures and clinics in Medicine, Surgery, Child Health, Obstetrics and Gynaecology and are posted to teaching hospitals, including urban health facilities as part of preventive and social medicine teaching.\n\n\nStudents study the allied specialties: eye, ear, nose and throat diseases, urology, neurology, tuberculosis, venereal diseases, orthopaedics and traumatology, skin diseases, mental health and psychiatry, oro-maxillo-facial surgery, radiology, radiotherapy, nuclear medicine, anaesthesiology, thoracic surgery, and paediatric surgery.\n\nA summative examination is held at the end of the Final M.B., B.S. Part II course. Problem based learning (PBL), Task based learning (TBL), community based learning (CBL) and behavioural science are incorporated, as relevant.\n\nAll students, after a successful completion of Final Part 2 MBBS Examination, continue on to hands-on training for one year as house surgeons in the recognized teaching hospitals in Yangon and/or the state and division hospitals.\n\nOnly after the completion of house-surgeonship is the student awarded the M.B., B.S. degree.\n\nEvery DSMA cadet also studies military science and military leadership for one to two months per year from First M.B., B.S. to Final M.B., B.S. Part I. After graduation, every medical officer has been trained as a platoon commander.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34564767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34564767", "title": "Enhanced Primary Care Case Management Program", "text": "Enhanced Primary Care Case Management Program\n\nPrimary Care Case Management (PCCM), is a program of the United States government healthcare service Medicaid. It oversees the United States system of managed care used by state Medicaid agencies in which a primary care provider is responsible for approving and monitoring the care of enrolled Medicaid beneficiaries, typically for a small monthly case management fee in addition to fee-for-service reimbursement for treatment. In the mid-1980s, states began enrolling beneficiaries in their PCCM programs in an attempt to increase access and reduce inappropriate emergency department and other high cost care. Use increased steadily through the 1990s.\n\nIn 1981, the 97th session of Congress enacted the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) which allowed state Medicaid programs to implement risk-based managed care programs as well as PCCM, pending HCFA(now known as CMS) waiver approval. The state had to meet two requirements in order to be granted HCFA approval.\n\nIn their earliest forms, PCCM programs closely resembled traditional fee-for-service Medicaid than managed care. Some states developed PCCM as a first step towards risk-based managed care and considered their MCO contracts as the main managed care system. As PCCM programs matured, state goals have expanded to improving quality of care provided. States have used strategies similar to network management principles used by MCOs.\nPCCM programs have evolved over the past two decades through the addition of a variety of care management and care coordination features. These include payment innovations; increased care management resources; improved performance monitoring and reporting; increased resources for management of serious and complex medical conditions; and a variety of “medical home” innovations, including performance-based reimbursement, better use of information technology, increased contact with patients, and efforts to provide additional resources for physician offices.\n\nBy 1986, seven states had implemented PCCM programs. By 1990, that number had grown to 19. States were motivated to implement PCCM programs for several reasons:\n\nAs of July 1, 2010, approximately 21% of the almost 39 million Medicaid enrollees who were enrolled in a comprehensive managed care plan were enrolled in a PCCM program.\n\nIn most PCCM programs, PCPs are paid a per member per month fee for each Medicaid beneficiary or an increase in preventive service fees to pay for case management services. In addition, PCPs are paid on a fee-for-service reimbursement for all primary care services that he/she provides. HMOs are not involved. In return, the PCP is responsible for providing primary care and for prior authorizations to hospitals and specialty care providers.\nPhysicians bear no financial risk for the services they provide or approve. State Medicaid agencies may include additional activities, such as medical management, network management or performance incentives, to improve outcomes and generate cost savings.\nStates vary in how they manage provider networks, provider recruitment, data collection and analysis, monitoring, quality improvement, patient education, disease management programs and enrollment. Some states perform all these programs in-house using state employees; other states contract out all or some of these functions.\n\nStates that have tried implementing PCCM programs have encountered mostly positive results:\n\n"}
{"id": "35734100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35734100", "title": "Family planning in Hong Kong", "text": "Family planning in Hong Kong\n\nFamily planning in Hong Kong occurs within a context of a total fertility rate in Hong Kong of currently 1.04 children per woman, one of the lowest in the world.\n\nThe Eugenics League was founded in 1936, which became The Family Planning Association of Hong Kong in 1950. The organisation provides family planning advice, sex education and birth control services to the general public. In the 1970s, due to the rapidly rising population, it launched the \"Two is Enough\" campaign, which reduced the general birth rate through educational means.\n\nThe Family Planning Association of Hong Kong was one of the eight family planning organisations that founded the International Planned Parenthood Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24793463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24793463", "title": "Fibrosclerosis of breast", "text": "Fibrosclerosis of breast\n\nFibrosclerosis of the breast is most frequently used to mean sclerosing lobular adenosis of the breast. It is not well known if it is related to non-sclerosing adenosis of the breast (which is normally classified as fibrocystic breast changes) and unlike this it is believed to be correlated with an elevated risk of breast cancer.\n"}
{"id": "9324307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9324307", "title": "Food for the Brain Foundation", "text": "Food for the Brain Foundation\n\nThe Food for the Brain Foundation is a non-profit educational campaign, claiming to have been created by a group of nutritionists, doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, teachers and scientists to promote a purported link between nutrition and mental health. It is an initiative led by Patrick Holford.\n\nThe foundation has received publicity with its pilot study in a number of British schools that has attempted to improve children's performance by improving nutrition. The campaign has been both lauded as revealing a massive improvement in pupils' behaviour and performances and criticised as unscientific and encouraging fad diets.\n\nThe best known and launching campaign of the Food for the Brain Foundation was a pilot study carried out at Cricket Green special education school in Merton, London. This study lasted seven months and had pupils following \"a daily regime of taking the long chain fatty acid supplement \"eye q\", a combination of omega-3 fish oil and omega-6 evening primrose oil, a balanced nutritious diet, a new exercise regime, and a multivitamin.\" The study \"transformed\" the behaviour of children at the school, with a 25% drop in psychosomatic problems reported. A similar study, followed by the ITV current affairs programme Tonight with Trevor MacDonald, is underway at Chineham Park school Basingstoke. This has been described as \"phenomenally successful\", with children's behaviour notably improving.\n\nHowever, the studies have also been criticised. Catherine Collins of St George's Hospital in London stated that a pupil in the Merton study had \"suffered sleep problems and her weight dropped as a result of the advice [Mr Holford] gave.\" The study as been criticised as being unscientific, with results \"cherry-picked\" and the effects merely a \"placebo\". Holford and the foundation reject some of these allegations. Holford claims that the pupil in the Merton study has since regained the lost weight, which he puts down to a reduction in her gluten intake, after tests revealed she was \"gluten sensitive\". He states that her overall behaviour and health have improved during the study.\n\n"}
{"id": "42203959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42203959", "title": "Food industry in Bangladesh", "text": "Food industry in Bangladesh\n\nFood industry is a rapidly growing sector in Bangladesh, employing a significant portion of the labor force in the country. Between 2004 and 2010, the food processing industry in Bangladesh grew at an average 7.7 percent per annum. Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics, in its 25006 Economic Census, reported that there were approximately 246 medium-sized food processing industries employing 19 percent of the industrial manufacturing workforce in Bangladesh or 8 percent of the total manufacturing labor force. The food industry employs 2.45 percent of the country's total labor force and its share in the GDP was 2.01 percent in 2010. There are also numerous small scale factories and domestic units engaged in food processing throughout the country. According to some industry analysts, the food processing sector in Bangladesh is a 4.5 billion US Dollar industry. In 2010, Bangladesh exported over $700 million worth of processed food and beverages, over 60 percent of them were shrimp and fish products.\n\nFood processing in Bangladesh has traditionally been small scale, with domestic or family business using common processing knowledge for the conservation and handling of raw agricultural commodities to make them usable as food and feed. Although commercial scale food processing using modern technology especially for wheat and rice milling, mustard seed crushing and very limited bread and cookie manufacturing appeared during the 1960s, the growth of this sector did not gain momentum in terms of operational scale and quality until the 1980s. Recently the defining characteristics of the industry has been the processing of increasingly diverse products to meet the changing demands of the Bangladesh population. The major food processing sub-sectors in Bangladesh include dairy, edible oil, sugar, rice, wheat, fruit and vegetable, tea, poultry/beaf, pulses and spices and fish processing industries. Induced by the vigorous growth of the diverse middle class population of Bangladesh and the growing demands for additional consumption, the food processing sector is set to witness further hefty expansion in the coming years.\n"}
{"id": "55441955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55441955", "title": "Frank Barron (psychologist)", "text": "Frank Barron (psychologist)\n\nFrank X. Barron (June 17, 1922 - October 6, 2002) was an American psychologist and philosopher. He is considered a pioneer in the psychology of creativity and in the study of human personality.\n\nBarron was born in Lansford, Pennsylvania He received Ph.D. at University of California, Berkeley in 1950 and worked for over 30 years at the Berkeley Institute for Personality Assessment and Research. Barron was one of the first contemporary psychologists to study effects of psychedelic drugs. In 1960 he was a co-founder of the Harvard Psychedelic Drug Research.\n\nBarron received the APA Richardson Creativity Award in 1969 and the Rudolf Arnheim Award in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32780718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32780718", "title": "Gender-bias in medical diagnosis", "text": "Gender-bias in medical diagnosis\n\nGender-biased diagnosing is a controversial sociological observation which asserts that medical and psychological diagnosis may be influenced by the gender of the patient. Several studies have found evidence of differential diagnosis for patients with similar ailments but of different sexes.\n\nThe phenomenon may affect physical diagnosis. Women are more likely to be given a diagnosis of psychosomatic nature for a physical ailment than men, despite presenting with similar symptoms. Women sometimes have trouble being taken seriously by physicians when suffering from medically unexplained illness, and report difficulty receiving appropriate medical care for their illnesses because doctors repeatedly diagnose their physical complaints as related to psychiatric problems.\nClinical offices that rely on healthcare routines become less distinct due to biased medical knowledge of gender. There is a distinct differentiation between gender and sex in the medical sense. Gender is the societal construction of what femininity and masculinity is, whereas, sex is the biological aspect that defines the dichotomy of female and male. The way of lifestyle and the place in society are often considered when diagnosing patients.\n\nAccording to traditional medical studies, most of these medical studies were done on men thus overlooking many issues that were related to women's health. This topic alone sparked controversy and brought about question to the medical standard of our time. Research that was done on diseases that affected women more were less funded than those diseases that affected men and women equally.\n\nThere was an example of gender bias in the psychiatric field as well, Hamburg notes that, \"psychiatrists would diagnose women with depression and then, eventually psychiatrists would begin to assume that women were more depressed than men due to the fact that the patients that were examined by the psychiatrists were women and they had similar symptoms. As for the men, they were diagnosed with drug or alcohol problems and they were thrown out of the study.\"\n\nAs for the Women's Health Equity Act that was passed in 1993, this Act gave women the chance to participate in medical studies and examine the gender differences. Before the Women's Health Equity Act was introduced there was no research done on infertility, breast cancer, and ovarian cancer which were essential to women's health.\n\nThere is a suggestion that assumptions regarding gender specific behavioural characteristics can lead to a diagnostic system which is biased. The issue of gender bias with regard to \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) personality disorder criteria has been controversial and widely debated. The fourth DSM (4th ed., text revision; DSM–IV–TR; American Psychiatric Association, 2000) makes no explicit statement regarding gender bias among the ten personality disorders (PDs), but it does state that six PDs (antisocial, narcissistic, obsessive-compulsive, paranoid, schizotypal, schizoid) are more frequently found in men. Three others (borderline, histrionic, dependent) are more frequent in women. Avoidant is equally common in men and women.\n\nThere are many ways to interpret differential prevalence rates as a function of gender. Some critics have argued that they are an artifact of gender bias. In other words, the PD criteria assume unfairly that stereotypical female characteristics are pathological. The results of this study conclude with no indication of gender-biased criteria in the borderline, histrionic, and dependent PDs. This is in contrast with what is predicted by critics of these disorders, who suggest they are biased against women. It is possible, however, that other sources of bias, including assessment and clinical bias, are still at work in relation to these disorders. The results do show that the group means are higher in women than in men, an expected result considering the higher prevalence rate of these disorders for women.\n\nThe original purpose of the DSM–IV was to provide an accurate classification of psychopathology, not to develop a diagnostic system that will, democratically, diagnose as many men with a personality disorder as women\". However, if the criteria are to serve equally as indicators of disorder for both men and women, it will be important to establish that the implications of these criteria for functional impairment are comparable for both sexes. Whereas it is plausible that there are gender-specific expressions of these disorders, DSM–IV criteria that function differentially for men and women can systematically over-pathologize or under-represent mental illness in a particular gender. The present study is limited by the investigation of only four personality disorders and the lack of inclusion of additional diagnoses that have also been controversial in the gender bias debate (such as dependent and histrionic personality disorders), although it offers a clearly articulated methodology for studying this possibility. In addition, it provides an examination of a clinical sample of substantial size and uses functional assessments that cut across multiple functional domains and multiple assessment methods. Our results indicate that BPD criteria showed some evidence of differential functioning between genders on global functioning, although there is little evidence of sex bias within the diagnostic criteria for avoidant, schizotypal, or obsessive–compulsive personality disorders. Further investigation and validation across sexes for those disorders would be an important direction of future research.\n\nConsiderable evidence indicates a prominent role for trauma-related cognitions in the development and maintenance of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. The present study utilized regression analysis to examine the unique relationships between various trauma-related cognitions and PTSD symptoms after controlling for gender and measures of general affective distress in a large sample of trauma-exposed college students. In terms of trauma-related cognitions, only negative cognitions about the self were related to PTSD symptom severity. Gender and anxiety symptoms were also related to PTSD symptom severity. Theoretical implications of the results are consistent with previous studies on the relationship between PTSD and negative cognitions, the self, world, and blame subscales of the PTCI were significantly related to PTSD symptoms. The study correlations indicated that increased negative trauma-related cognitions were related to more severe PTSD symptoms. Also consistent with previous reports, correlations also indicated that gender was related to PTSD symptom severity, such that women had more severe PTSD symptoms. PTSD symptom severity was also positively related to depression, anxiety, and stress reactivity.\n\nDistinguishing between borderline personality disorder (BPD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often challenging, especially when the client has experienced a trauma such as childhood sexual abuse (CSA), which is strongly linked to both disorders. Although the individual diagnostic criteria for these two disorders do not overlap substantially, patients with either of these disorders can display similar clinical pictures. Both patients with BPD and PTSD may present as aggressive toward self or others, irritable, unable to tolerate emotional extremes, dysphoric, feeling empty or dead, and highly reactive to mild stressors. Despite having similar clinical pictures, PTSD and BPD are regarded differently by many clinicians. Results from a 2009 study concluded that patient gender does not affect diagnosis. This finding is consistent with research suggesting that women are not more likely to be given the BPD diagnosis, all else being equal, though it contradicts other findings from studies that have used similar case vignettes. Nor did the data support an effect of clinician gender or age on diagnosis.\n\nA 2012 study examined gender-specific associations between trauma cognitions, alcohol cravings and alcohol-related consequences in individuals with dually diagnosed PTSD and alcohol dependence (AD). Participants had entered a treatment study for concurrent PTSD and AD; baseline information was collected from participants about PTSD-related cognitions in three areas: (a) Negative Cognitions About Self, (b) Negative Cognitions About the World, and (c) Self-Blame. Information was also collected on two aspects of AD: alcohol cravings and consequences of AD. Gender differences were examined while controlling for PTSD severity. The results indicate that Negative Cognitions About Self are significantly related to alcohol cravings in men but not women, and that interpersonal consequences of AD are significantly related to Self-Blame in women but not in men. These findings suggest that for individuals with comorbid PTSD and AD, psychotherapeutic interventions that focus on reducing trauma-related cognitions are likely to reduce alcohol cravings in men and relational problems in women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48488736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48488736", "title": "George W. Hahn", "text": "George W. Hahn\n\nGeorge Walter Hahn (September 11, 1894 – October 24, 1977) was an American Orthodontist who graduated from Angle School of Orthodontia in 1921. He served as president of California Dental Association and American Association of Orthodontists.\n\nHahn was born in Murphy, California in 1894. He joined the Navy in 1918, after which he was stationed at the Naval Training Station in San Diego during World War I for about a year. He graduated from University of California College of Dentistry in 1919 after which he worked at private practice in Berkeley, California. Hahn then attended Angle School of Orthodontia and graduated from there in 1921. He was married to Dorothy and they had two daughters named Margaret and Dowrene.\n\nHahn was an active member of the Northern California component of Angle Society. He played a key role in the first annual reunion of Angle School in Pasadena, California. Hahn served as the Chairman of Northern Component of Angle Society when Edward Angle presented his newly developed edgewise appliance. He modified Angle's ribbon arch mechanism by banding the premolars for cases in which he did extractions.\n\nHahn served as assistant professor at University of California Dental School in 1930 and then served as Chairman of the program before World War II. In his career, Dr. Hahn published about 50 articles on clinical Orthodontics. One of his most well-known works is the article called \"Retention, the Stepchild of Orthodontia\" which was published in 1943 in Angle Orthodontist.\n\nHahn moved back to Berkeley where he worked at private practice until his retirement in 1964. He died at the age of 83 following a brief illness after cerebral hemorrhage.\n\n"}
{"id": "5231700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5231700", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Tanzania", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Tanzania\n\nTanzania faces a mature, generalized HIV epidemic. In 2011, an estimated 1.6 million Tanzanians were living with HIV/AIDS, with 1.3 million being age 15 or older. Based on 2011 data, AIDS has resulted in an estimated 1.3 million orphaned children.\n\nThe Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) and the Zanzibar AIDS Commission authorized the Tanzania National Bureau of Statistics to conduct the \"Tanzania HIV/AIDS and Malaria Indicator Survey 2011–12\". The survey was conducted in collaboration with the Office of the Chief Government Statistician (Zanzibar) and was funded by the United States Agency for International Development, TACAIDS, and the Tanzania Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. ICF International provided technical assistance during the survey.\n\nThe survey covered both mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar. Its objectives were to collect data on knowledge and behaviour regarding HIV/AIDS and measure HIV prevalence among women and men age 15–49. The data was collected 16 December 2011 to 24 May 2012.\n\nThe survey tested 9,756 women and 7,989 men in the 15 to 49 age group from every administrative region of Tanzania for HIV infection.\n\nOverall, the survey found that 5.1 percent of those tested were HIV positive. There was no statistically significant difference between this result and the result from the previous survey in 2007–08.\n\nStratified by gender, 6.2 percent of women were HIV positive, which was significantly higher than the 3.8 percentage rate for men. These results were not statistically different from the results of the previous survey in 2007–08. Njombe region had the highest rate of positive women, 15.4 percent (240 tested), and men, 14.2 percent (200 tested). The rate for men was higher than for women in only two of Tanzania's 30 regions. The rate for both men and women was highest for people in the highest wealth quintile.\n\nThe HIV positive rate for uncircumcised men was higher than for circumcised men in every five-year age group except for the 15–19 age group. This was also true when the survey results were stratified by urban versus rural areas instead of by age group.\n\nAmong couples living in the same household (married or not), 4.6 were serodiscordant, where one was HIV positive and the other was negative. The Njombe region had the highest rate, 16.2 percent. The only other region above 10 percent was the Dar es Salaam region.\n\nThe survey tested 3,852 women and 3,393 men in this age group from every administrative region of Tanzania for HIV infection. The survey found that 2.7 percent of women were HIV positive, which was significantly higher than the 1.2 percentage rate for men. Njombe region had the highest rate of positive women, 8.6 percent (75 tested), while Kigoma region had the highest rate for men, 3.6 percent (153 tested). The rate for men was higher than for women in only six of Tanzania's 30 regions. The rate for both men and women was highest for people in the highest wealth quintile.\n\nThe survey tested 6,072 women and 4,209 men in this age group from every administrative region of Tanzania for HIV infection. The survey found that 7.5 percent of women were HIV positive, which was significantly higher than the 5.2 percentage rate for men. Njombe region had the highest rate of positive women, 18.6 percent (199 tested), and men, 21.4 percent (149 tested). The rate for men was higher than for women in only four of Tanzania's 30 regions.\n\nPopulations at high risk for HIV infection include sex workers, miners, police officers, prisoners, people in the transport sector, and the military. Injecting drug use is also increasing, highlighting the need to improve prevention efforts and expand access to treatment and care.\n\nThe greatest challenge facing the health sector is inadequate human resources to deliver quality health services to the Tanzanian population. Since the 1990s, structural adjustment policies and HIV/AIDS have greatly reduced the health-sector workforce. A second challenge is poverty, important because the cost of drugs and health services has constituted a financial barrier to access. Tanzania has formulated its second \"Poverty Reduction Strategy\" paper to reinforce its commitment to overcoming poverty. Tanzania also continues to struggle with the issue of corruption, with the health care sector being ranked as the second most corrupt sector in the country by the country's Economic and Social Research Foundation. Due in part to the vast size of the country, health services do not currently meet acceptable quality standards, and access to voluntary counseling and testing services varies greatly. Overall, while services may be available, the human and physical infrastructure is in need of improvement to allow for better quality patient care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35324981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324981", "title": "Health in Nicaragua", "text": "Health in Nicaragua\n\nLife expectancy in Nicaragua at birth was 72 years for men and 78 for women in 2016. While communicable diseases such as dengue, chikungunya, and Zika continue to persist as national health concerns, there is a rising public health threat of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer, which were diseases previously thought to be more relevant and problematic for more developed nations. Additionally, in the women's health sector, high rates of adolescent pregnancy and cervical cancer continue to persist as national concerns.\n\nThere has been an observed increasing prevalence of chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, obesity, and hypertension. This increase in prevalence of chronic diseases has been attributed to lifestyle changes and increased urbanization. Improved access to processed foods has led to higher consumption of highly processed snacks and sugar-containing drinks in rural areas of Nicaragua, and raw sugar cane is often freely available. Complementary feeding practices involving breastfeeding paired up with supplementation of artificial snacks were frequently observed amongst 6-to 8-month-olds. These early introduction to highly processed foods leads to increased risk of infections and impaired developmental growth. In 2008, WHO reported that 55.5% of the population was overweight and 22.2% classified as obese, and trends reveal that obesity rates are steadily rising.\n\nHypertension and pre-hypertension are significant national medical concerns. Studies conducted in rural communities of Nicaragua that have revealed that 41.1% of their residents have hypertension. Beyond these patients who have met this traditional hypertensive minimum cut-off, there is also a large population of pre-hypertensive patients. Health promotional efforts that focus on preventative measures have been proposed to address this pre-hypertensive sub-population.\n\nIn Nicaragua, 48% of tuberculosis (TB) patients have encountered issues with employment and 27% had reported social problems because of stigma associated with the disease. In order to reduce false community beliefs and fears about tuberculosis that could be feeding into this social stigma, various solutions have been proposed and attempted in communities throughout the country.\n\nIn order to increase local awareness of this disease and improve TB control, volunteer-run TB clubs have been created in municipalities across Nicaragua to facilitate the creation of supportive community networks and lead educational workshops for citizens. These TB clubs have been reported to be a cost-effective strategy for controlling the spread of TB in Nicaragua; however, some have argued that they lack lack of sustainability in funding. Outside of the educational realm, a team of researchers found that they could reduce internalized social stigma of TB patients in rural Nicaragua by pursuing patient-centered care that allowed for medical professionals to see patients at their homes and gain a better understanding of the support given to them by their social networks.\n\nThough the prevalence of HIV/AIDS amongst Nicaraguan adults was estimated to be 0.3% by UNAIDS in 2015, in the past UNAIDS' numbers have been claimed to be grossly underreported due to data collection issues. Nicaragua's high prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), high risk sexual behaviors associated with the culture of machismo, low prevalence of condom usage, and the early age of first sexual intercourse of its citizens all contribute to concerns about rising HIV/AIDS rates.\n\nIn Latin America, stigma and discrimination against HIV/AIDS serve as barriers to effective responses and are linked to social inequalities associated with gender, living status, and sexuality. One study found that while 90% of Nicaraguan adolescents would accept and care for a family member with HIV/AIDS, only 69% would tell anyone else if they got diagnosed as HIV-infected and only 46% would share food with someone who was infected. Nine years following the detection of the first HIV case in Nicaragua, the Nicaraguan government instituted Law 238 to protect the rights of those infected with HIV/AIDS in regards to confidentiality, access to healthcare, and nondiscrimination, setting the precedent for future intervention strategies focused on decreasing AIDs stigma amongst various professionals, including health care workers.\n\nThe chikungunya, dengue, and Zika viruses co-circulate in Nicaragua, and those infected with one or multiple of these viruses can present with similar clinical symptoms, making clinical treatment and diagnosis more difficult. Co-infections are common in endemic areas in Nicaragua.\n\nMalaria has also been a historically major health issue in Nicaragua, and during the 1930s up to 60% of the population had malaria. Usage of bed-nets protecting against mosquitos have been reported to be 25.3% amongst all Nicaraguan households. Within these households, it was found that children were more often protected than adults with 46% of bed-net coverage of infants under 1 year.\n\nA study conducted in 2000 revealed that poverty of Nicaraguan families heightened the risk of infant mortality. Its findings also showed that social inequity, or the contrast in wealth between a household and its surrounding neighborhood, further increased this risk. In addition to income levels, it has been shown that violence against mothers increases the risk of infant and child mortality. Intimate partner abuse also contributes to low birth weight of infants. Overall decreasing national infant mortality trends correspond with higher educational levels of mothers and lower fertility rates.\n\nOut of Nicaraguan women married or previously married women of childbearing age, 52% have identified having had experienced physical violence by an intimate partner at least once. Additionally, 21% of these women report having experienced a full combination of physical, emotional, and sexual violence at one or more points in their lives.\n\nDomestic violence has immediate and lasting effects on its victims. An overwhelming majority of emotional distress cases amongst every-married Nicaraguan women is attributable to current or former experiences of domestic abuse. Domestic abuse is also correlated with higher incidence of unintended pregnancies in Nicaragua.\n\nSee also Healthcare in Nicaragua\n"}
{"id": "47657624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47657624", "title": "Healthcare Spending Account", "text": "Healthcare Spending Account\n\nA Health Care Spending Account (HCSA), or Healthcare Spending Account (HSA) is a type of flexible employee benefit program in Canada that aims to provide more flexibility than a traditional health plan. As a supplemental program, it covers items that are not normally part of the traditional plan. Generally these plans include a fixed amount per employee available to be claimed, which makes budgeting for them easier for employers. Expenses that can be claimed against an HCSA are regulated by the Canada Revenue Agency.\n\nHCSA covers expenses connected with health, vision and dental care for you, your spouse, or any dependents (children) qualified by the Canada Revenue Agency. But expenses caused by cosmetic surgery, hair removal/regeneration, non-prescription lenses, over-the-counter drugs without an actual prescription signed by registered medical staff, etc. cannot be paid using your Health Care Spending Account.\n"}
{"id": "29954987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29954987", "title": "Healthcare in Norway", "text": "Healthcare in Norway\n\nIn Norway, all hospitals are funded by the public as part of the national budget. However, while medical treatment is free of charge for any person younger than the age of sixteen, residents who have reached adulthood must pay a deductible each year before becoming eligible for an exemption card. The card entitles one to free healthcare for the remainder of that year.\n\nAll public hospitals in Norway are run by four Regional Health Authorities (RHA) overseen by the Ministry of Health and Care Services. In addition to these public hospitals, there are a small number of privately owned health clinics currently operating.\n\nExpenditure on healthcare is about USD $6,647 per head per year (2016), among the highest in the world. It has the highest proportion of nurses and midwives per head in Europe - 1,744 per 100,000 in 2015.\n\nWhile the availability of public healthcare is universal in Norway, there are certain payment stipulations.\n\nChildren aged sixteen or younger, and pregnant and/or nursing women are given free healthcare regardless of the coverage they may have had in previous situations. All citizens are otherwise responsible for the annual deductible - which averages around 2040 Norwegian krone (about $246.00 USD.) Norway’s health system also does not cover specialized care for those above 16 years of age, and anyone needing treatment such as specialized physiotherapy is required to pay an additional deductible. While health appointments themselves are encompassed by the deductible, extra materials and medical equipment are often covered by the patient.\n\nIn terms of emergency room admission, all immediate healthcare costs are covered. In the case that hospitals in Norway are unable to treat a patient, then treatment abroad is arranged free of charge.\n\nNorway scores overall very high on different rankings in health care performances worldwide. Unique for the Norwegian health care system is that the state funds almost all expenses a patient would have. Patients with extra high expenses due to a permanent illness receive a tax deduction. In 2010, 9.4 percent of the country’s GDP went to health spending, and only about 1.4 percent of that was private spending. \n\nIn 2017, 10,4 per cent of the country`s GDP went to health spending. Norway is one of the countries in the world where private spending on health care is the lowest percent of the total. In 2007, out-of-pocket payments made up 15 percent of total health expenditure, in 2010 out-of-pocket money payments are up to 15,3 per cent, reflecting moderate cost-sharing requirements. The government creates an annual health budget for the following year, every year in December. This budget includes all expenses within the health branch of Norway. The parliament has only on some occasions voted for additional funds later in the year, primarily for hospitals. The welfare state costs a lot to maintain and to improve after the standard and inflation of the year. Pension, regulated after age, is the largest expense in the budget section covering health and welfare. The government has in the year of 2018 increased expenses and funding to the health sector with 2 percent compared to last year, with the goal to shorten the length of waiting lines and improve health services. Funds for hospital care are allocated to the regional health authorities after the budget is passed for the coming year. They are responsible to distribute the financial funding to hospitals and other health services locally.\n\nAfter the second world war the government of Norway decided to include national health care as one of their main focuses in the development of the welfare state. The state is responsible to provide good and necessary health services for everyone. The responsibility is divided between three levels of governmental responsibility. First the state government, second the county and lastly the local council. The government is responsible for developing laws and passing bills, but the department of Health and Care has the main responsibility for the daily running and operations regarding health politics and health services in Norway. An arraignment was developed in 2001 that gave each citizen the right to have a permanent doctor in the area they lived in. The city council in every county is responsible for this right, and they also initiate agreements and cooperation with the doctors. This improvement is one of several in the healthcare that Norway have to offer. The different reforms has in common that they all came as a reaction to an inefficient system that did not take full advantage of all available recourses. Another major reform that came in the beginning of the 21st century, was the health reform of 2002.\n\nIn 2002 the government took over the responsibility of running all the hospitals in the country. Kjell Magne Bondevik was the prime minister at this time. He was the leader of the party KrF and he was head of a government in coalition with two other parties, Høyre and Venstre. Up until this date the hospitals in Norway was operated by the county and the city council. The goal was to improve the quality of medical treatment, to run the hospitals more efficiently than earlier and to make medical treatment equally available to everyone in the country. The reform was inspired by thoughts from the New Public Management movement, and major changes was realized after these principles. Hospitals and services was organized in to five regional health-companies. They are independent legal entities organized after the same principles as a corporation, with a few exceptions. The health companies are only owned by the government, they cannot go bankrupt and is guaranteed by the government. The government also loans and gives them financing from state funding. The reform was to some extent successful. Patient waiting lists before treatment were reduced with almost 20 thousand patients. But the spending on healthcare in Norway increased, and after a year the financial deficit reached almost 3.1 billion. Also, efficiency improvements in treatments can be noticed by patients when they have less time with the doctor and sometimes must check out of the hospital the same day.\n\nNorway does not produce the bulk of pharmaceuticals consumed domestically, and imports the majority that are used in its health system. This has resulted in most residents having to pay full price for any prescription. Pharmaceutical exporting is overseen by the Ministry of Health and Care Services. Insurance coverage for medicine imported from outside the country is managed through the Norwegian Health Economics Administration (HELFO).\n−gl6j\n\nNorway has four designated Regional Health Authorities. They are: Northern Norway Regional Health Authority, Central Norway Regional Health Authority, Western Norway Regional Health Authority, and Southern and Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority. According to the Patients' Rights Act, all eligible persons have the right to a choice in hospitals when receiving treatment.\n\nThe Norwegian Health Care System was ranked number 11 in overall performance by the World Health Organization in a 2000 report evaluating the health care systems of each of the 191 United Nations member nations. According to the Euro health consumer index, in 2015 the Norwegian health system was ranked third in Europe but had inexplicably long waiting lists.\n\nThe report, 2016 shows that life expectancy has increased by five years, from 76.8 years in 1990 to 81.4 years in 2013. The reduction in deaths from cardiovascular disease is the main reason for this increase. Life expectancy in Norway in 2017, was 84,3 years in women and 80,9 years in men. From 2007 to 2017, life expectancy increased by 2.7 years for men, but only by 1.6 year for women. This can be explained, for example, by different \"smoking careers\" for men and women. \n\nPublic Health Report 05/2018, shows that the two main causes of death are cardiovascular disease and cancer. The mortality rate of cardiovascular disease has fallen significantly over the past 50 years, and deaths have been largely pushed to age groups over 80 years. In younger age groups, the number of deaths is low.\n\nAnnually, between 550 and 600 die of suicide, about half past 50 years of age. Compared to other countries, there are relatively many who die of drug-fatal deaths, an average of 260 per year.\n\nDeaths due to traffic accidents have fallen considerably, the average number of death last 5 years is 138, serious injuries 678.\n\nOne of the major findings from the report (2016), is that an unhealthy diet is the most important risk factor for premature deaths in Norway.\n\n“46 per cent of all deaths before the age of 70 in Norway can be explained by behavioural factors such as unhealthy diet, obesity, low physical activity and the use of alcohol, tobacco and drugs” says Professor Stein Emil Vollset, Director of the newly established Centre for Burden of Disease at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health.\n\n“If we consider the population as a whole, it appears that an unhealthy diet represents a greater risk to public health than smoking. This is not because an unhealthy diet is more dangerous than smoking but because fewer Norwegians now smoke. Since 1990, the percentage of smokers in Norway has decreased from 35 per cent to 13 per cent”, explains Vollset. \n\nBy addressing these risk factors, much of Norway’s disease burden could be reduced. Up to 100,000 years of life could be saved if Norwegians ate healthier diets.\n\nApproximately 1 in 4 middle-aged men and 1 in 5 women have obesity with a body mass index of 30 kg / m2 or higher in Norway. Among children, the proportion with overweight and obesity appears to have stabilised.\n\nDrug overdose and suicide rates are high. Among the under-49 age group, suicide and drug overdoses are the main causes of death in Norway, with the highest rates among the Nordic countries (Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Finland and Sweden).\n\nThe report shows that lower back pain, neck pain, anxiety and depression are among the main causes of poor health among the Norwegian population as a whole, while heart disease and cancer claim most lives.\n\nOver the last two decades, efforts to reduce the population’s exposure to tobacco smoke combined with increased awareness of the health risks of smoking appear to be having an impact. For example, early death from tobacco smoke fell 28% between 1990 and 2013. \n\nIn Norway 2017, 11 per cent was daily smokers, in 2007, it was 22 per cent daily smokers.\n\nAll pregnant women in Norway are entitled to maternity care from a midwife at a Maternity and Child Health Care Centre or from their General Practitioner.\n\nThere are usually eight antenatal appointments including one ultrasound screening during pregnancy. The consultations are free of charge, and pregnant employees have the right to paid time off work for antenatal appointments.\n\nThere were 56 600 children born in 2017, 2 300 fewer than the previous year. This gave a total fertility rate of 1.62 children per woman - the lowest measured in Norway ever.\n\n139 children were registered as stillborn in 2017. This corresponds to 2.4 deaths per 1,000 born and is the lowest number ever recorded.\n\nIn Norway 2015: Nursing and midwifery personnel density (per 1000 population).Value: 17.824. That includes practising midwives and practising nurses. Data Source: OECD Health Data, accessed October 2017. WHO region: Europe Effective. date: 2018-02-26 \n\nMany infectious diseases have declined globally. Higher standards of living and improved hygienic conditions are a major cause, as well as the use of vaccines. Increased international travel and import of food is causing an increase in some infectious diseases in Norway. These include some foodborne infections and infections by antibiotic-resistant bacteria.\n\nTuberculosis is the most infectious disease worldwide, and is a major challenge in global health care. However, in Norway, the decline in the number of tuberculosis cases continues.\n\nBy 2017, a total of 261 patients with tuberculosis disease were reported to the Public Health Institute. This is a decline from the previous years. During the last twenty years, the highest number of patients with tuberculosis was 392 in 2013 . It makes Norway one of the countries with the lowest tuberculosis presence in the world. Differences in the global disease burden of tuberculosis are also reflected in the occurrence here in the country, where we see major inequalities based on people's country of origin. Only 11 percent of the patients who were reported with tuberculosis disease in 2017 were born in Norway, and only half of them had Norwegian-born parents.\n\nThe number of multiresistant tuberculosis cases is between four and 11 cases per year. By 2017, nine patients were diagnosed with multiresistant tuberculosis. None of these had developed resistance during treatment in Norway.\n\nMost cases of tuberculosis disease in Norway are detected early and therefore do not lead to disease of others.\n\nAn important part of the tuberculosis work in this country is precisely to ensure that people with an increased risk of post-infection disease development are offered preventive treatment. In addition to those who are thought to be newly infected, these risk groups include children and persons with impaired immune system.\n\nThe number of people receiving preventive treatment is still too low, according to the Institute of Public Health. The number of preventive treatments is expected to be greater than the number treated for tuberculosis disease, but in several counties these groups are almost as large.\n\nHIV infection has been proven in all countries of the world. UNAIDS estimates that by the end of 2016 approximately 36.7 million people living with HIV infection, approximately 17 million of these have access to antiviral treatment. Since the start of the epidemic, it is estimated that approx. 78 million people have been infected with HIV and approximately 35 million people have died of AIDS-related illnesses. Globally, women account for 52% of the HIV-infected persons. About. 69% of the HIV-infected live in sub-Saharan Africa. About. 1.8 million are now infected globally annually with HIV (2016). This is the lowest number of newly diagnosed since the mid 1990s.\n\nIn Norway, HIV infection and AIDS has also been proven, and from 1983, the Public Health Institute in Oslo, has been doing the statistics, showing overall low incidense. In 2017, it is 18 cases diagnosed with AIDS and 213 cases diagnosed with HIV.\n\nPeople who test HIV positive will be referred to a doctor with a good knowledge of HIV. Treatment for HIV infection is usually handled by a specialist health service in the hospital. For people who live far from a hospital, the local doctor can collaborate with the specialists to give the best possible local support.\n\nThe Disability Adjusted Life Years per percent is dominated of Non-communicable diseases, NCDs. Low back and neck pain has the highest share, 8,08% of total DALYs, but it is slightly decreasing. Ischemic heart disease is second largest with 7,42% of total DALYs, COPD is increasing and has 3,09% of total DALYs.\n\nInjuries, including violence and self harm, has got a smaller share of total DALYs. Falls has got the largest share within this area with 2,93% of total DALYs and is most increasing. Self harm is second largest and with 2%, and road injuries has 1,44% of total DALYs, both decreasing.\n\nCommunicable, neonatal, maternal and nutritional diseases, has the smallest share of the total DALYs. The largest share within this area is: Lower respiratory diseases, 1,22% of total DALYs. Diarrheal diseases are increasing and has got 0,34% of total DALYs. HIV/AIDS is small and decreasing and has got 0,087% of total DALYs. Tuberculosis is even smaller and decreasing, with 0,045% of total DALYs.\n\nNorway regards the 2030 Agenda with its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a transformative global roadmap for both national and international efforts aimed at eradicating extreme poverty, while protecting planetary boundaries and promoting prosperity, peace and justice.\n\nNorway was also a part of the 2016 voluntary national review of the high level political forum on Sustainable development.\n\nUN reports and various international indexes show that Norway ranks high in terms of global implementation of the SDGs. At the same time, it is evident that implementing the 2030 Agenda will be demanding for Norway, too.\n\nThe Government has identified a number of targets that pose particular challenges for domestic follow-up in Norway. These challenges relate to several of the SDGs and all three dimensions of sustainable development – social, economic, and environmental. Targets that are likely to remain the focus of political attention and policy development are those relating to sustainable consumption and production, health and education, equality, employment, and migration. The Government is giving priority to ensuring quality education and employment, especially for young people and those at risk of marginalisation. This is an important contribution to realising the 2030 Agenda vision of leaving no one behind. Challenges that have been identified at the national level:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "875883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875883", "title": "Hospital-acquired infection", "text": "Hospital-acquired infection\n\nA hospital-acquired infection (HAI), also known as a nosocomial infection, is an infection that is acquired in a hospital or other health care facility. To emphasize both hospital and nonhospital settings, it is sometimes instead called a health care–associated infection (HAI or HCAI). Such an infection can be acquired in hospital, nursing home, rehabilitation facility, outpatient clinic, or other clinical settings. Infection is spread to the susceptible patient in the clinical setting by various means. Health care staff can spread infection, in addition to contaminated equipment, bed linens, or air droplets. The infection can originate from the outside environment, another infected patient, staff that may be infected, or in some cases, the source of the infection cannot be determined. In some cases the microorganism originates from the patient's own skin microbiota, becoming opportunistic after surgery or other procedures that compromise the protective skin barrier. Though the patient may have contracted the infection from their own skin, the infection is still considered nosocomial since it develops in the health care setting.\n\nIn the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated roughly 1.7 million hospital-associated infections, from all types of microorganisms, including bacteria and fungi combined, cause or contribute to 99,000 deaths each year. In Europe, where hospital surveys have been conducted, the category of gram-negative infections are estimated to account for two-thirds of the 25,000 deaths each year. Nosocomial infections can cause severe pneumonia and infections of the urinary tract, bloodstream and other parts of the body. Many types display antimicrobial resistance, which can complicate treatment.\n\n\nIndwelling catheters have recently been identified with hospital acquired infections. Procedures using Intravascular Antimicrobial Lock Therapy can reduce infections that are unexposed to blood-borne antibiotics. Introducing antibiotics, including ethanol, into the catheter (without flushing it into the bloodstream) reduces the formation of biofilms. \nContact transmission is divided into two subgroups: direct-contact transmission and indirect-contact transmission.\n\nControlling nosocomial infection is to implement QA/QC measures to the health care sectors, and evidence-based management can be a feasible approach. For those with ventilator-associated or hospital-acquired pneumonia, controlling and monitoring hospital indoor air quality needs to be on agenda in management, whereas for nosocomial rotavirus infection, a hand hygiene protocol has to be enforced.\n\nTo reduce HAIs, the state of Maryland implemented the Maryland Hospital-Acquired Conditions Program that provides financial rewards and penalties for individual hospitals based on their ability to avoid HAIs. An adaptation of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services payment policy causes poor-performing hospitals to lose up to 3% of their inpatient revenues, whereas hospitals that are able to avoid HAIs can earn up to 3% in rewards. During the program’s first 2 years, complication rates fell by 15.26 percent across all hospital-acquired conditions tracked by the state (including those not covered by the program), from a risk-adjusted complication rate of 2.38 per 1,000 people in 2009 to a rate of 2.02 in 2011. The 15.26-percent decline translates into more than $100 million in cost savings for the health care system in Maryland, with the largest savings coming from avoidance of urinary tract infections, septicemia and other severe infections, and pneumonia and other lung infections. If similar results could be achieved nationwide, the Medicare program would save an estimated $1.3 billion over 2 years, while the health care system as a whole would save $5.3 billion.\n\nHospitals have sanitation protocols regarding uniforms, equipment sterilization, washing, and other preventive measures. Thorough hand washing and/or use of alcohol rubs by all medical personnel before and after each patient contact is one of the most effective ways to combat nosocomial infections. More careful use of antimicrobial agents, such as antibiotics, is also considered vital.\n\nDespite sanitation protocol, patients cannot be entirely isolated from infectious agents. Furthermore, patients are often prescribed antibiotics and other antimicrobial drugs to help treat illness; this may increase the selection pressure for the emergence of resistant strains.\n\nSterilization goes further than just sanitizing. It kills all microorganisms on equipment and surfaces through exposure to chemicals, ionizing radiation, dry heat, or steam under pressure.\n\nIsolation is the implementation of isolating precautions designed to prevent transmission of microorganisms by common routes in hospitals. (See Universal precautions and Transmission-based precautions.) Because agent and host factors are more difficult to control, interruption of transfer of microorganisms is directed primarily at transmission for example isolation of infectious cases in special hospitals and isolation of patient with infected wounds in special rooms also isolation of joint transplantation patients on specific rooms.\n\nHandwashing frequently is called the single most important measure to reduce the risks of transmitting skin microorganisms from one person to another or from one site to another on the same patient. Washing hands as promptly and thoroughly as possible between patient contacts and after contact with blood, body fluids, secretions, excretions, and equipment or articles contaminated by them is an important component of infection control and isolation precautions. \nThe spread of nosocomial infections, among immunocompromised patients is connected with health care workers' hand contamination in almost 40% of cases, and is a challenging problem in the modern hospitals. The best way for workers to overcome this problem is conducting correct hand-hygiene procedures; this is why the WHO launched in 2005 the GLOBAL Patient Safety Challenge.\nTwo categories of micro-organisms can be present on health care workers' hands: transient flora and resident flora. The first is represented by the micro-organisms taken by workers from the environment, and the bacteria in it are capable of surviving on the human skin and sometimes to grow. The second group is represented by the permanent micro-organisms living on the skin surface (on the stratum corneum or immediately under it). They are capable of surviving on the human skin and to grow freely on it. They have low pathogenicity and infection rate, and they create a kind of protection from the colonization from other more pathogenic bacteria. The skin of workers is colonized by 3.9 x 10 – 4.6 x 10 cfu/cm. The microbes comprising the resident flora are: \"Staphylococcus epidermidis\", \"S. hominis\", and \"Microccocus\", \"Propionibacterium, Corynebacterium, Dermobacterium\", and \"Pitosporum\" spp., while transient organisms are \"S. aureus\", and \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\", and \"Acinetobacter, Enterobacter\" and \"Candida\" spp. The goal of hand hygiene is to eliminate the transient flora with a careful and proper performance of hand washing, using different kinds of soap, (normal and antiseptic), and alcohol-based gels. The main problems found in the practice of hand hygiene is connected with the lack of available sinks and time-consuming performance of hand washing. An easy way to resolve this problem could be the use of alcohol-based hand rubs, because of faster application compared to correct hand-washing.\n\nImproving patient hand washing has also been shown to reduce the rate of nosocomial infection. Patients who are bed-bound often do not have as much access to clean their hands at mealtimes or after touching surfaces or handling waste such as tissues. By reinforcing the importance of handwashing and providing santizing gel or wipes within reach of the bed, nurses were directly able to reduce infection rates. A study published in 2017 demonstrated this by improving patient education on both proper hand-washing procedure and important times to use sanitizer and successfully reduced the rate of enterococci and \"S. aureus\".\n\nAll visitors must follow the same procedures as hospital staff to adequately control the spread of infections. Moreover, multidrug-resistant infections can leave the hospital and become part of the community flora if steps are not taken to stop this transmission.\n\nIt is unclear whether or not nail polish or rings affected surgical wound infection rates.\n\nIn addition to hand washing, gloves play an important role in reducing the risks of transmission of microorganisms. Gloves are worn for three important reasons in hospitals. First, they are worn to provide a protective barrier for personnel, preventing large scale contamination of the hands when touching blood, body fluids, secretions, excretions, mucous membranes, and non-intact skin. In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has mandated wearing gloves to reduce the risk of bloodborne pathogen infections. Second, gloves are worn to reduce the likelihood that microorganisms present on the hands of personnel will be transmitted to patients during invasive or other patient-care procedures that involve touching a patient's mucous membranes and nonintact skin. Third, they are worn to reduce the likelihood that the hands of personnel contaminated with micro-organisms from a patient or a fomite can transmit those micro-organisms to another patient. In this situation, gloves must be changed between patient contacts, and hands should be washed after gloves are removed.\n\nWearing gloves does not replace the need for handwashing due to the possibility of contamination when gloves are replaced, or by damage to the glove. Doctors wearing the same gloves for multiple patient operations presents an infection control hazard.\n\nSanitizing surfaces is part of nosocomial infection in health care environments. Modern sanitizing methods such as Non-flammable Alcohol Vapor in Carbon Dioxide systems have been effective against gastroenteritis, MRSA, and influenza agents. Use of hydrogen peroxide vapor has been clinically proven to reduce infection rates and risk of acquisition. Hydrogen peroxide is effective against endospore-forming bacteria, such as \"Clostridium difficile\", where alcohol has been shown to be ineffective. Ultraviolet cleaning devices may also be used to disinfect the rooms of patients infected with \"Clostridium difficile\" after discharge.\n\nMicro-organisms are known to survive on inanimate ‘touch’ surfaces for extended periods of time. This can be especially troublesome in hospital environments where patients with immunodeficiencies are at enhanced risk for contracting nosocomial infections.\n\nTouch surfaces commonly found in hospital rooms, such as bed rails, call buttons, touch plates, chairs, door handles, light switches, grab rails, intravenous poles, dispensers (alcohol gel, paper towel, soap), dressing trolleys, and counter and table tops are known to be contaminated with \"Staphylococcus\", MRSA (one of the most virulent strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria) and vancomycin-resistant \"Enterococcus\" (VRE). Objects in closest proximity to patients have the highest levels of MRSA and VRE. This is why touch surfaces in hospital rooms can serve as sources, or reservoirs, for the spread of bacteria from the hands of healthcare workers and visitors to patients.\n\nA number of compounds can decrease the risk of bacteria growing on surfaces including: copper, silver, and germicides.\n\nAmong the categories of bacteria most known to infect patients are the category MRSA (resistant strain of \"S. aureus\"), member of gram-positive bacteria and \"Acinetobacter\" (\"A. baumannii\"), which is gram-negative. While antibiotic drugs to treat diseases caused by gram-positive MRSA are available, few effective drugs are available for \"Acinetobacter\". \"Acinetobacter\" bacteria are evolving and becoming immune to existing antibiotics, so in many cases, polymyxin-type antibacterials need to be used. \"In many respects it’s far worse than MRSA,\" said a specialist at Case Western Reserve University.\n\nAnother growing disease, especially prevalent in New York City hospitals, is the drug-resistant, gram-negative \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\". An estimated more than 20% of the \"Klebsiella\" infections in Brooklyn hospitals \"are now resistant to virtually all modern antibiotics, and those supergerms are now spreading worldwide.\"\n\nThe bacteria, classified as gram-negative because of their reaction to the Gram stain test, can cause severe pneumonia and infections of the urinary tract, bloodstream, and other parts of the body. Their cell structures make them more difficult to attack with antibiotics than gram-positive organisms like MRSA. In some cases, antibiotic resistance is spreading to gram-negative bacteria that can infect people outside the hospital. \"For gram-positives we need better drugs; for gram-negatives we need any drugs,\" said Dr. Brad Spellberg, an infectious-disease specialist at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, and the author of \"Rising Plague\", a book about drug-resistant pathogens.\n\nOne-third of nosocomial infections are considered preventable. The CDC estimates 2 million people in the United States are infected annually by hospital-acquired infections, resulting in 20,000 deaths. The most common nosocomial infections are of the urinary tract, surgical site and various pneumonias.\n\nThe methods used differ from country to country (definitions used, type of nosocomial infections covered, health units surveyed, inclusion or exclusion of imported infections, etc.), so the international comparisons of nosocomial infection rates should be made with the utmost care.\n\nIn Belgium the prevalence of nosocomial infections is about 6.2%. Annually about 125,500 patients become infected by a nosocomial infection, resulting in almost 3000 deaths. The extra costs for the health insurance are estimated to be approximately €400 million/year.\n\nEstimates ranged from 6.7% in 1990 to 7.4% (patients may have several infections). At national level, prevalence among patients in health care facilities was 6.7% in 1996, 5.9% in 2001 and 5.0% in 2006. The rates for nosocomial infections were 7.6% in 1996, 6.4% in 2001 and 5.4% in 2006.\n\nIn 2006, the most common infection sites were urinary tract infections (30,3%), pneumopathy (14,7%), infections of surgery site (14,2%). Infections of the skin and mucous membrane (10,2%), other respiratory infections (6,8%) and bacterial infections / blood poisoning (6,4%). The rates among adult patients in intensive care were 13,5% in 2004, 14,6% in 2005, 14,1% in 2006 and 14.4% in 2007.\n\nNosocomial infections are estimated to make patients stay in the hospital four to five additional days. Around 2004-2005, about 9,000 people died each year with a nosocomial infection, of which about 4,200 would have survived without this infection.\n\nRate were estimated at 8.5% of patients in 2005.\n\nSince 2000, estimates show about a 6.7% infection rate, i.e. between and patients, which caused between and deaths. A survey in Lombardy gave a rate of 4.9% of patients in 2000.\n\nEstimates range between 2 and 14%. A national survey gave a rate of 7.2% in 2004.\n\nIn 2012 the Health Protection Agency reported the prevalence rate of HAIs in England was 6.4% in 2011, against a rate of 8.2% in 2006. with respiratory tract, urinary tract and surgical site infections the most common types of HAI reported. In 2018 it was reported that in-hospital infections had risen from 5,972 in 2008 to 48,815 in 2017. \n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated roughly 1.7 million hospital-associated infections, from all types of bacteria combined, cause or contribute to 99,000 deaths each year. Other estimates indicate 10%, or 2 million, patients a year become infected, with the annual cost ranging from $4.5 billion to $11 billion. In the USA, the most frequent type of infection hospitalwide is urinary tract infection (36%), followed by surgical site infection (20%), and bloodstream infection and pneumonia (both 11%).\n\nIn 1841, Ignaz Semmelweis, a Hungarian obstetrician was working at a Vienna maternity hospital. He was \"shocked\" by the death rate of women who developed puerperal fever. He documented that the infection was 20 times higher in the ward where the medical students were delivering babies than in the next ward that was staffed by midwifery students. The medical students were also routinely working with cadavers. He compared the rates of infection with a similar hospital in Dublin, Ireland and hypothesized that it was the medical students who somehow were infecting the women after labor. He instituted mandatory hand-washing in May 1847 and infection rates dropped dramatically. Louis Pasteur proposed the germ theory of disease and began his work on cholera in 1865 by identifying that it was microorganisms that were associated with disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "14267188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14267188", "title": "How Do I Look", "text": "How Do I Look\n\nHow Do I Look is a 2006 American documentary directed by Wolfgang Busch. The film chronicles ball culture in Harlem and Philadelphia over a ten-year period.\n\nWolfgang Busch began interviewing subjects from the ball circuit in the mid-1990s and continued filming for a decade. \"How Do I Look\" documents the ball culture, which began in the 1920s during the Harlem Renaissance, and has since influenced mainstream artists and musicians. The film follows several ball \"legends\" such as Willi Ninja, Kevin Ultra-Omni, Octavia St. Laurent, Pepper LaBeija and Jose Xtravaganza. Many of the subjects that are featured in \"How Do I Look\" were also featured in the 1990 documentary \"Paris Is Burning\".\n\n\"How Do I Look\" also explores the prejudices members of the ball culture face due to their sexuality and race. In a 2005 \"New York Times\" article, choreographer Willi Ninja commented about the mainstream society's readiness to embrace facets of ball culture while also rejecting the Ball \"children\" due to their sexuality:\n\n... \"If Madonna does voguing, it's O.K.,\" he added. \"But when the ball children dance, even now, people say, 'Oh, it's a bunch of crazy queens throwing themselves on the floor.'\"\nOther subjects speak about their attempts to forge careers in mainstream society and the effect that HIV and AIDS has had on ball culture as many of the subjects featured died of AIDS during or shortly after filming was complete.\n\n\"How Do I Look\" was filmed in New York City and Philadelphia. It premiered at the NewFest Film Festival in New York City in June 2006. The assistant director was Kevin Burrus.\n\n\"How Do I Look\" was released on Region 1 DVD in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "41794776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41794776", "title": "Inclusive Design Research Centre", "text": "Inclusive Design Research Centre\n\nThe Inclusive Design Research Centre (IDRC) is a research and development centre at OCAD University in Toronto, Canada. The centre defines inclusive design as that which \"considers the full range of human diversity with respect to ability, language, culture, gender, age and other forms of human difference.\" The research centre is directed by Jutta Treviranus. In 2011 the centre launched a Master of Design in Inclusive Design.\n\nThe IDRC supports open standards, open access, and open source technology wherever possible in order to maximize distribution and to encourage broad participation. Some of the new initiatives the IDRC is working on are:\n\n\"FLOE Project: Flexible Learning for Open Education.\" FLOE is intended to enable inclusive access to personally relevant, engaging learning opportunities for the full diversity of learners and content producers. For example, Users can customize the look and feel and presentation of web content to meet their unique needs and preferences through FLOE User Interface Options. In addition, the FLOE video player allows multiple language caption support, synchronized and navigable transcripts, and is fully accessible via keyboard control, and screen reader.\n\"ADOD Project: Accessible Digital Office Document.\" ADOD is developing vendor-neutral manual with practical application-specific instructions that can help users choose accessible office applications and create accessible documents from common office application suites. The guidance is based primarily on WCAG 2.0 and ATAG 1.0 recommendations of the W3C. ADOD is being developed in partnership with UNESCO and the Ontario Ministry of Community and Social Services.\n\n\"AEGIS Ontario: Integrating Accessibility into Emerging ICT.\" The ÆGIS Ontario project is devoted to ensuring that emerging information and communication technologies (ICT) are designed inclusively, thereby supporting Ontario's commitment to equal access and preparing Ontario's ICT businesses to meet the growing global demand for products and services that provide accessibility to people of all abilities. The project is funded by the Ontario Research Fund Research Excellence program, and is working in close partnership with AEGIS Europe.\n\nThe Inclusive Design Institute (IDI) is a related enterprise, housed in the same facilities as the IDRC, that serves as a regional research network for inclusive design. Also directed by Treviranus, It was founded in 2008 and officially launched on 24 May 2012,\nwith the aim to \"address the challenge of designing our information and communication systems (ICT) so that they work for all potential users, including users with disabilities, varying language needs and diverse cultural preferences.\"\nIt consists of eight core postsecondary partners (OCAD University, University of Toronto, Ryerson University, York University, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Sheridan College, George Brown College and Seneca College) and over 100 collaborating organizations,\nand is funded by the Canada Foundation for Innovation and the Ontario Ministry of Research and Innovation. Thirty-five academics from the participating institutions are affiliated with the institute.\n\nSome research centres that use the term \"inclusive design\" do so synonymously with the older field of universal design. Both inclusive design and universal design seek to design systems \"... so that work for people with disabilities results in systems that work better for everyone [and] increase the human capacity to meet legal, policy and societal commitments to accessibility, diversity and inclusion at a local, national and global level.\" The IDRC, however, presents a definition of inclusive Design that has key differences from universal design and its own distinctive features. Inclusive design principles are intended to make universal design more fully inclusive, according to the centre.\n\nUniversal design grew out of industrial and architectural design whereas inclusive design came out of the digital world. Greater design options allow inclusive design to produce one-size-fits-one solutions in contrast to universal design that features one-size-fits-all and may exclude outliers such as the multifaceted people with various disabilities. Notes the IDRC: \"while universal design is about creating a common design that works for everyone, we [in inclusive design] have the freedom to create a design system that can adapt, morph, or stretch to address each design need presented by each individual.\" Researchers in inclusive design believe that every user of any system, be it digital or policy, must be recognized as unique and that \"it is the responsibility of inclusive designers to be aware of the context and broader impact of any design and strive to effect a beneficial impact beyond the intended beneficiary of the design.\"\n\nTreviranus, the IDRC head, has led a body of research investigating and developing a new approach to accessibility: reframing disability as a mismatch between the needs of the user and the environment or system offered (and therefore not a personal trait but a consequence of the relationship between the individual and their environment). This technical and conceptual framework takes advantage of the plasticity of information and communications technology (ICT) systems to personally optimize the user interface to the needs and preferences of each individual. This approach supports human diversity in digital systems not by attempting to find a one-size-fits-all solution but by adapting to the cluster of diverse needs of each user.\n\nDirector of both the IDRC and IDI, Jutta Treviranus is a world expert in the field of inclusive design who has made appearances at the White House and United Nations. She has \"led many international multi‐partner research networks that have created broadly implemented technical innovations that support inclusion.\" Her work has included designing open source content and helping implement accessibility legislation, standards, and specifications.\n\nIn 2013 Treviranus was awarded the Queen's Diamond Jubilee Medal. In the same year, the International Electrotechnical Commission awarded Treviranus their International 1906 Award; it recognizes experts' contributions to the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24410111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24410111", "title": "Institute of Cardiovascular &amp; Medical Sciences", "text": "Institute of Cardiovascular &amp; Medical Sciences\n\nThe Institute of Cardiovascular & Medical Sciences main hub is the purposed built BHF Glasgow Cardiovascular Research Centre facility at the University of Glasgow. The Director of Institute is Prof Rhian Touyz, MBBCh, MSc(Med), PhD. She is the British Heart Foundation(BHF) Chair of Cardiovascular Medicine and Director of the BHF Centre of Research Excellence.\nThe Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences (ICAMS) is a research-intensive institute of basic and clinical scientists and clinicians.\nICAMS is home to a British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence that focuses on vascular science and biomedicine.\nResearch is the prime activity of the Institute and forms the central core around which all our other activities, including teaching, training, clinical care and public outreach take place.\nICAMS has on average 80 principal investigators annually focusing on research in three primary areas: Cardiac, Vascular and Metabolic pathophysiology. Research is conducted in an integrated and translational manner addressing diseases such as heart failure, ischaemic heart disease, arrhythmias, hypertension, atherosclerosis, diabetes, stroke and renovascular disease.\n\nTo enhance human health by exploring causes and mechanisms of cardiovascular disease and advancing and implementing discoveries leading to improved prevention, diagnosis and treatment. Our structure provides an environment of excellence in research, training and learning.\n\nThere are around 175 research and support staff, as well as PhD & MD students (116 in 2017-18). Research is the primary activity of the Institute and forms the central core around which all activities take place. Our objectives we need to further support our areas of strength, but also contrate more effort and resources on the areas identified as demonstrating potential to be fields of research excellence. Staff are currently focused around 3 main themes – Cardiac, Vascular and Metabolic. Emerging themes: renal, stroke, omics.\nInstitute staff also run and contribute to Post Graduate Taught Programmes: MSc Cardiovascular Sciences, MSc Clinical Pharmacology, MSc Clinical Trials & Stratified Medicine, MSc Sports & Exercise Science & Medicine, MSc Stratified Medicine and Pharmacological Innovation.\nICAMS is part of the College of MVLS which was formed in 2010. The College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences brings together internationally renowned experts and state-of-the-art facilities to improve health and quality of life for humans and animals across the globe. The College also provides innovative teaching for our students, preparing them for a wide variety of exciting careers.\nInstitute of Cardiovascular & Medical Sciences\n\n"}
{"id": "18030835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18030835", "title": "John McNeill (diplomat)", "text": "John McNeill (diplomat)\n\nSir John McNeill (1795 – 17 May 1883) was a Scottish surgeon and diplomat.\n\nMcNeill was born on 12 August 1795 at Oronsay House on the island of Oronsay in the Inner Hebrides. He was the third of the six sons of John McNeill, laird of Colonsay and Oronsay (1767–1846) and his wife, Hester McNeill (died 1843). He was the younger brother of the law lord Duncan McNeill, 1st Baron Colonsay and Oronsay.\n\nHe studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, where he graduated as a Doctor of Medicine in 1814, at the age of nineteen.\nOn 6 September 1816 he was appointed assistant surgeon on the Honourable East India Company's Bombay establishment. He was moved to Persia in 1819. He received his licence as a surgeon on 1 May 1824 and retired from the medical service on 4 June 1836, thereafter concentrating on the diplomatic aspects of the East India Company.\n\nHe was attached to the field force under Colonel East in Kutch and Okamundel in 1818–19 and was afterwards deputy medical storekeeper at the presidency.\n\nFrom 1824 to 1835, he was attached to the East India Company's legation in Persia, at first in medical charge, and latterly as political assistant to the Minister, John Macdonald Kinneir, in which post he displayed great ability. For instance, in 1829 he was probably one of the instigators of the murder of Alexander Griboyedov by Persian mob in Teheran.\n\nOn 30 June 1835, he was appointed secretary of the special embassy sent to Tehran under Henry Ellis to congratulate Mohammad Shah Qajar on his accession to the Persian throne. McNeill received permission to wear the Persian Order of the Lion and the Sun of the first class, and on his return home in the spring of 1836, he anonymously published a startling anti-Russian pamphlet, \"Progress and Present Position of Russia in the East\". \n\nFrom 1836 to 1844, McNeill was any envoy to Persia. See Siege of Herat.\n\nIn 1845, McNeill was appointed chairman of the Board of Supervision, entrusted with the working of the new Poor Law (Scotland) Act 1845, a post he occupied for twenty-three years. During the Highland Potato Famine – nearly as disastrous as the Irish Potato Famine – he conducted a special inquiry into the condition of the western Scottish Highlands and Western Isles, during which he personally inspected twenty-seven of the most distressed parishes.\n\nDuring his stay in Scotland he lived at Granton House in Edinburgh.\n\nHe was cofounder in 1851, with Sir Charles Trevelyan, of the Highland and Island Emigration Society which during the Highland Clearances supported an exodus of nearly 5,000 people to Australia between 1851 and 1856.\n\nAt the outbreak the Crimean War in 1854, McNeill published revised editions in French and English of his pamphlet \"Progress and Present Position of Russia in the East\", with supplementary chapters dealing with the progress of events since 1836, and insisting on the importance to Britain and to Christendom of the autonomy of Turkey and Persia.\n\nAt the beginning of 1855, when the Crimean disasters had roused public indignation, McNeill and Colonel Alexander Tulloch, an officer of great administrative experience at the War Office, were sent to the Crimea with instructions to report on the whole arrangements and management of the commissariat and the method of keeping accounts, and to the causes of the delays in unloading and distributing clothing and other stores sent to Balaklava.\n\nThe commissioners started at once for the seat of war. They took no shorthand writer with them, as the remuneration sanctioned by the Treasury was insufficient to secure a qualified person.\n\nThe McNeill–Tulloch inquiry was the most effective of the various inquisitions into the Crimean débâcle. It sharply criticised Lord Raglan's personal staff in the Crimea and Commissary-General Filder, and it led to many recriminations as officers sought to clear their names when the report was published in 1856. A board of general officers was convened to clear the army, but despite its protestations, the McNeill–Tulloch report led to professional reform of the commissariat by the Royal Warrant of October 1858.\n\nVery unusually, the Commons, irritated by executive obfuscation, passed a resolution in 1857 calling for special honours and McNeill soon became a Privy Councillor and Tulloch was appointed a KCB. The University of Oxford made McNeill a Doctor of Civil Law and the University of Edinburgh chose him as chairman of its amalgamated societies; his inaugural address on competitive examinations was published in 1861.\n\nMcNeill married, firstly, in 1814, Innes Robinson, fourth daughter of George Robinson of Clermiston, Midlothian – she died in 1816; secondly, in 1823, Eliza Wilson, third daughter of John Wilson – she died in 1868; thirdly, in 1871, Lady Emma Augusta Campbell, daughter of John Campbell, 7th Duke of Argyll.\n\nMcNeill was the brother-in law (by his 2nd marriage) of the author John Wilson, and (by his 3rd marriage) of George Campbell, 8th Duke of Argyll.\n\nMcNeill died at Poralto near Cannes in France, on 17 May 1883. A memorial to his memory lies on the south-east wall of Liberton Cemetery in Edinburgh, at the grave of his third wife, Emma Augusta.\n"}
{"id": "26684627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26684627", "title": "Ladies' Deborah and Child's Protectory", "text": "Ladies' Deborah and Child's Protectory\n\nLadies' Deborah and Child's Protectory was a 19th-century day care center and orphanage located at 204 East Broadway. The institution cared for the children, ages two to six years, of indigent parents who worked during the day. The youths were fed and returned to their parents in the evening. Abandoned children were also taken in. A certificate of incorporation was filed at the clerk's office of New York County on March 5, 1878.\n\nThe facility opened on the morning of March 24, 1878, when fifty-nine small children were received inside. Ladies' Deborah and Child's Protectory was established by Mrs. P.J. Joachimsen. She was president of the Hebrew Sheltering Guardian Society of New York City.\n\nIn January 1880 the New York City Board of Apportionment distributed $1,289.43 from the excise fund to assist in the support of children at the institution, which was then being called Ladies' Deborah Nursery and Child's Protectory.\n\nIn March 1883 the Deborah Nursery was located at 95 East Broadway, with a branch at 101 East Broadway and a girls' branch at 423 East 83rd Street. Elbridge T. Gerry, president of the New York Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Children, listed the buildings of the three sites as worthy of attention by the building department, in regard to repairs.\n\nIsrael Schwartz, a thirteen-year-old Jewish boy, accused superintendent Herman Engel, of the nursery, of assaulting him with a cane, in May 1893. Engel was held for examination and fined $300. Schwartz complaint was one of many which were reported around this time.\n\nIn November 1896 the facility was ordered to promptly make reforms by the New York City Board of Health. At this instance the nursery was afflicted by the prevalence of ophthalmia. In March 1896 eighty cases of the disease were reported among the children at Ladies' Deborah Nursery and Child's Protectorate. Infected children were quarantined but twenty-two of them were released back to the main building, despite continuing to suffer from various forms of eye diseases. The institution was then located at Eagle Avenue and 161st Street in Manhattan.\n\nThe Ladies' Deborah Relief Association was active at least four years before the opening of the child's protectory. On July 29, 1874 the\norganization held a benefit for the sick and poor at Bellevue Garden near 80th Street (Manhattan).\n\nIn June 1897 the Eagle Avenue site, on the West Side (Manhattan), was sold during a foreclosure. The lot measured 150 feet by 125 feet and possessed a three-story and a four-story building, both composed of brick. $18,687 was due on judgment.\n\n"}
{"id": "50651770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50651770", "title": "List of Mount Everest death statistics", "text": "List of Mount Everest death statistics\n\nList of Mount Everest death statistics is a list of statistics about death on Mount Everest. For a list of mountaineer deaths on Mount Everest, see List of people who died climbing Mount Everest\n\n\"Examples of known cases\"\n\n\n\nSee also Dr. Beck Weathers, a medical doctor who is famous for narrowly surviving the 1996 Everest Disaster.\n\n\nExamples of those who, after summiting, died on the descent down or soon after (not counting other climbs, on the same expedition but does not have to be their first summit)\n\n\"examples only\"\n\nThe history of mountaineering expeditions on Mount Everest has evolved since the first official mountaineering expedition trekked up its slopes in 1921. In the subsequent decades from this point until the 1960s, many expeditions were funded by major organizations and launched in a \"siege\"-style with large climbing parties. These early campaigns helped overcome the relatively remote nature and uncharted territory of Everest. Additionally, these journeys paved the way for the \"lightweight\"-style expeditions that would follow (a prime example is the successful 1980 solo ascent by Reinhold Messner, the first without supplemental oxygen). The 80s and 90s saw the emergence and rise in the commercialization of the ascent to Everest's summit. These commercial expeditions range from logistics only (i.e. a permit and some basic base camp supplies) to expensive, professionally-guided expeditions promising even laypeople an increased chance of successfully reaching the summit. The increased access now afforded to scaling the world's tallest mountain, while leading to more people successfully reaching the summit than ever before, has also seen a concomitant and exponential rise in casualties.\nAnother very deadly event was in 1995, when 42 died near Everest in a large avalanche.\n\n\"*with at least two deaths\"\n\nOne of the people claimed by Everest mountaineering was the U.S. astronaut Karl Gordon Henize. He was on a mission to study radiation but came down with a fatal case of HAPE in October 1993 and died at north base camp. At the time he was the oldest astronaut to have flown in space and also had a doctorate in astronomy. He died on October 5, 1993 and was buried on Mount Everest.\n\n"}
{"id": "15926342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15926342", "title": "List of chiropractic schools", "text": "List of chiropractic schools\n\nThis list of chiropractic schools is organized alphabetically by country. In those countries with functioning, specialized, accrediting agencies, the colleges holding \"recognized\", or \"accredited\" status are delineated. Other countries and regions are in the process of developing similar programs of accreditation; and, in Switzerland, chiropractic is so fully integrated into the health care system that the existence of a separate accrediting agency is thus obviated. The course is taught in university, on the same basis as human medicine.\n\nIn 2015, nine internationally accredited chiropractic colleges: AECC, WIOC, IFEC-Paris, IFEC-Toulouse, SDU-Odense, UZ-Zurich, UJ-Johannesburg, Durbin University of Technology and Macquarie University, Australia, made an open statement which included: \"The teaching of the vertebral subluxation complex as a vitalistic construct that claims that it is the cause of disease is unsupported by evidence. Its inclusion in a modern chiropractic curriculum in anything other than an historic context is therefore inappropriate and unnecessary\".\n\nThis document is based upon and supports the theme of the World Federation of Chiropractic Educational Statement formulated in November 2014 at the Miami Education Conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28633438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28633438", "title": "List of countries by plum production", "text": "List of countries by plum production\n\nThis is a list of countries by plum and sloe production in 2016, based on data from the Food and Agriculture Organization Corporate Statistical Database. The total world production of plum and sloe for 2016 was 12,050,800 metric tonnes.\n\n"}
{"id": "38568822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38568822", "title": "Long-term impact of alcohol on the brain", "text": "Long-term impact of alcohol on the brain\n\nWhile researchers have found that moderate alcohol consumption in older adults is associated with better cognition and well-being than abstinence, excessive alcohol consumption is associated with widespread and significant brain lesions. The effects can manifest much later—mid-life Alcohol Use Disorder has been found to correlate with increased risk of severe cognitive and memory deficits in later life. Alcohol related brain damage is not only due to the direct toxic effects of alcohol; alcohol withdrawal, nutritional deficiency, electrolyte disturbances, and liver damage are also believed to contribute to alcohol-related brain damage.\n\nConsuming large amounts of alcohol over a period of time can impair normal brain development in humans. Deficits in retrieval of verbal and nonverbal information and in visuospatial functioning were evident in youths with histories of heavy drinking during early and middle adolescence.\n\nDuring adolescence critical stages of neurodevelopment occur, including remodeling and functional changes in synaptic plasticity and neuronal connectivity in different brain regions. These changes may make adolescents especially susceptible to the harmful effects of alcohol. Compared to adults, adolescents exposed to alcohol are more likely to exhibit cognitive deficits (including learning and memory dysfunction). Some of these cognitive effects, such as learning impairments, may persist into adulthood.\n\nEthanol can trigger the activation of astroglial cells which can produce a proinflammatory response in the brain. Ethanol interacts with the TLR4 and IL-1RI receptors on these cells to activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. Specifically, ethanol induces the phosphorylation of IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK), ERK1/2, stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK)/JNK, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK). Activation of the IRAK/MAPK pathway leads to the stimulation of the transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1. These transcription factors cause the upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. The upregulation of these inflammatory mediators by ethanol is also associated with an increase in caspase 3 activity and a corresponding increase in cell apoptosis. The exact mechanism by which various concentrations of ethanol either activates or inhibits TLR4/IL-1RI signaling is not currently known, though it may involve alterations in lipid raft clustering or cell adhesion complexes and actin cytoskeleton organization.\n\nIntermittent ethanol treatment causes a decrease in expression of the dopamine receptor type 2 (D2R) and a decrease in phosphorylation of 2B subunit of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR2B) in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, and for only D2R the striatum. It also causes changes in the acetylation of histones H3 and H4 in the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum, suggesting chromatin remodeling changes which may mediate long-term alterations. Additionally, adolescent rats pre-exposed to ethanol have higher basal levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, along with a prolonged dopamine response in this area in response to a challenge dose of ethanol. Together, these results suggest that alcohol exposure during adolescence can sensitize the mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine pathways to cause changes in dopaminergic and glutamatergic signaling, which may affect the remodeling and functions of the adolescent brain. These changes are significant as alcohol’s effect on NMDARs could contribute to learning and memory dysfunction (\"see Effects of alcohol on memory\").\n\nExcessive alcohol intake (binge drinking) causes a decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis, via decreases in neural stem cell proliferation and newborn cell survival. Alcohol decreases the number of cells in S-phase of the cell cycle, and may arrest cells in the G1 phase, thus inhibiting their proliferation. Ethanol has different effects on different types of actively dividing hippocampal progenitors during their initial phases of neuronal development. Chronic alcohol exposure decreases the number of proliferating cells that are radial glia-like, preneuronal, and intermediate types, while not affecting early neuronal type cells; suggesting ethanol treatment alters the precursor cell pool. Furthermore, there is a greater decrease in differentiation and immature neurons than there is in proliferating progenitors, suggesting that the abnormal decrease in the percentage of actively dividing preneuronal progenitors results in a greater reduction in the maturation and survival of postmitotic cells.\n\nAdditionally, alcohol exposure increased several markers of cell death. In these studies neural degeneration seems to be mediated by non-apoptotic pathways. One of the proposed mechanisms for alcohol’s neurotoxicity is the production of nitric oxide (NO), yet other studies have found alcohol-induced NO production to lead to apoptosis (\"see Neuroinflammation section\").\n\nMany negative physiologic consequences of alcoholism are reversible during abstinence. As an example, long-term chronic alcoholics suffer a variety of cognitive deficiencies. However, multiyear abstinence resolves most neurocognitive deficits, except for some lingering deficits in spatial processing. Nevertheless there are some frequent long-term consequences that are not reversible during abstinence. Alcohol craving (compulsive need to consume alcohol) is frequently present long-term among alcoholics. Among 461 individuals who sought help for alcohol problems, followup was provided for up to 16 years. By 16 years, 54% of those who tried to remain abstinent without professional help had relapsed, and 39% of those who tried to remain abstinent with help had relapsed.\n\nLong-term, stable consequences of chronic alcohol abuse are thought to be due to stable alterations of gene expression resulting from epigenetic changes within particular regions of the brain. For example, in rats exposed to alcohol for up to 5 days, there was an increase in histone 3 lysine 9 acetylation in the pronociceptin promoter in the brain amygdala complex. This acetylation is an activating mark for pronociceptin. The nociceptin/nociceptin opioid receptor system is involved in the reinforcing or conditioning effects of alcohol.\n"}
{"id": "25166657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25166657", "title": "Los Médicos Voladores", "text": "Los Médicos Voladores\n\nLos Médicos Voladores provide free medical and dental clinics to Mexicans, Latin Americans and the migrant populations of the Southwest USA.\n"}
{"id": "30404933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30404933", "title": "MCN: The American Journal of Maternal/Child Nursing", "text": "MCN: The American Journal of Maternal/Child Nursing\n\nMCN: The American Journal of Maternal/Child Nursing is a bimonthly peer-reviewed healthcare journal of obstetrical nursing and neonatal nursing.\n\n"}
{"id": "34979801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34979801", "title": "Mental health reform in North Carolina", "text": "Mental health reform in North Carolina\n\nThe state of North Carolina is undertaking a comprehensive policy shift on how the government budgets for and manages resources for mental health, developmental disability, and substance abuse services. The 1915 (b)(c) Medicaid Waiver Program was chosen by the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services, Division of Medical Assistance as a way to control and more accurately budget for the rising costs of Medicaid funded services. The 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program was initially implemented at one pilot site in 2005 and evaluated for several years. Two expansion sites were then added in 2012. Full statewide implementation is expected by July 1, 2013.\n\nIn October 2001, the North Carolina General Assembly ratified House Bill 381 (S.L. 2001-437) on Mental Health System Reform.\n\n[The law] required local jurisdictions to separate the management of mental health services from the delivery of those services. Previously, local entities such as counties and regional agencies delivered mental health services by directly employing the care providers. The 2001 law required the governmental local management entities (LMEs) to contract with private providers to serve area residents who needed mental health services. The local counties and regions no longer directly controlled the provision of services, but instead were responsible for managing provider contracts. \nSince that time, the state has undertaken additional mental health system reform actions. On January 1, 2002 the NC Division of Medical Assistance (DMA) entered into a contract with ValueOptions Inc. (a private for-profit company) to provide utilization review services for the then 1.3 million Medicaid recipients in North Carolina. The state renewed that contract in 2006 and 2011. ValueOptions provides prior authorization for mental health and substance abuse services.\n\nThere were significant criticisms of state's shift to privatization, including:\nAdditionally, the budget for Medicaid funded services was not adequately managed and continued to grow at a high rate each year.\n\nStarting in 2005, the state established one LME as a pilot Medicaid managed care vendor through the use of the Medicaid 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program. Piedmont Behavioral Health (PBH) served as the pilot program and serves Cabarrus, Davidson, Rowan, Stanly, and Union counties. In 2008, the General Assembly supported the planned expansion of the pilot program through S.L. 2008-107. Then S.L. 2010-31 was adopted and required the designation of two additional expansion sites. Most recently, S.L. 2011-264 instructed the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services (NC DHHS) to proceed with the statewide restructuring of the mental health, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse services system by implementing the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program statewide by July 1, 2013.\n\nArea authorities, like PBH, were originally designated by the state of North Carolina in 1985 through the NC Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, Substance Abuse Service Act. The name change to Local Management Entity (LME) took place in 2001 when North Carolina passed the Mental Health System Reform Act. Authority for LMEs is organized under North Carolina General Statute Chapter 122C. LMEs are considered a local political subdivision of the state per §122C-116. According to G.S. §122C-115.4, LMEs are responsible for management and oversight of the public system of mental health, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse services at the community level.\n\nMedicaid \"is a health insurance program for low-income individuals and families who cannot afford health care costs. Medicaid serves low-income parents, children, seniors, and people with disabilities.\" According to the Fiscal Research Division of the N.C. General Assembly, \"Medicaid is the fastest growing program in the state budget. In 2009, the authorized state budget for Medicaid was $3.2 billion, or 15% of the state's $21.2 billion authorized operating budget—an increase of 9% from 2008.\" The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services report that in 2009 (the last year for which data was available) North Carolina had 1,974,287 enrollees in Medicaid. 1.97 million enrollees equaled 21% of the state's population that year (9,380,884).\n\n\"Title XIX of the Social Security Act is a federal and state entitlement program that pays for medical assistance for certain individuals and families with low incomes and resources. This program, known as Medicaid, became law in 1965 as a cooperative venture jointly funded by the federal and state governments...to assist states in furnishing medical assistance to needy persons. Within broad national guidelines established by federal statutes, regulations and policies, each state 1) establishes its own eligibility standards, 2) determines the type, amount, duration, and scope of services, 3) sets the rate of payment for services, and 4) administers its own program.\" \n\nNorth Carolina submitted its \"Medicaid State Plan to the Health Care Financing Administration in 1969 and received approval that year. North Carolina General Statute Chapter 108A is the law that implemented Title XIX in North Carolina...on January 1, 1970. Each year new legislation that is passed by the North Carolina General Assembly establishes changes to the program and its policies such as eligibility and benefit coverage expansions and contractions, management and administrative mandates, special funding, etc.\n\nMedicaid provides medically necessary services related to physical health, mental health, substance abuse treatment, and developmental disabilities. In North Carolina, Medicaid costs are split between the State (34.87%) and the Federal government (65.13%). \"Ranking ninth among states in total Medicaid spending, North Carolina's Medicaid program has worked hard not just to cut spending to keep the program solvent, but also to contain costs while improving the quality of health care.\" In 2009, North Carolina had 1,274,193 adults and children in need of mental health, developmental disability, and substance abuse services.\n\nThe Social Security Act has been amended many times since its adoption to assist states in managing their Medicaid programs to best meet the needs of the state's eligible residents. One way the Social Security Act does this is by authorizing \"multiple waiver and demonstration authorities to allow states flexibility in operating Medicaid programs.\" Each state's Medicaid Agency must submit for review and approval an application for a Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) waiver, and the State Medicaid Agency has the ultimate responsibility for an HCBS waiver program although it may delegate the day-to-day operation of the program to another entity.\n\nIn response to its increasingly difficult budget situation, North Carolina is currently undertaking a statewide policy shift in how it budgets and manages funding for Medicaid programs specific to mental health, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse disorders.\n\nNorth Carolina was originally approved to use both the Section 1915 (b) Managed Care/Freedom of Choice Waiver and the Section 1915 (c) Home and Community-based Services Waiver options in October 2004. The 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program empowers the state designated public authority \"to build partnerships with consumers, providers and community stakeholders to create a more responsive system of community care.\" The vision of this policy is \"Responsible Change to Achieve Easy Access, Better Quality and Personal Outcomes.\" \n\nThe appeal of the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program is that annual Medicaid expenditures can be more accurately budgeted and managed based on a formula. Under the Waiver, the State would determine a per member per month amount (known as capitation) to be paid to the public authority designated by the NC Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Division of Medical Assistance (DMA), the State's Medicaid Agency. The capitation would be based on a formula that takes into account the historical service costs associated with the different Medicaid eligible groups.\n\nIn addition to the development of the capitation rate, the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program grants rate setting authority to adjust service rates to meet local needs, claims payment to ensure funds are spent in line with service authorizations, a closed network to allow for competition and choice within a stable network, utilization management to provide the right service at the right level, and care management to provide direct support to high cost/high risk customers.\n\nThe state of North Carolina formulated the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program policy utilizing the input of numerous internal and external stakeholders. The original plan was drafted by the staff of the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services. An External Advisory Team from within the Division of Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, and Substance Abuse Services (MHDDSAS) provided review and feedback. Additional feedback was sought through the North Carolina Council of Community Programs. The NC Council of Community Programs was incorporated in 1983 and is dedicated to helping area authorities in North Carolina improve their service quality and management effectiveness. The draft plan was then posted on the state's website (www.nc.gov) and distributed via a state Communication Bulletin and an invitation was issued for all stakeholders to provide ideas, suggestions, questions, and feedback.\n\nA complaint has been noted by the North Carolina Council on Developmental Disabilities that individuals and families feel that they were not consulted prior to their local LMEs submitting applications to be designated as an expansion site. Staff from the NC Division of MHDDSAS responded to this concern by noting that LMEs had little opportunity for this type of stakeholder engagement given the initial time frame for the waiver amendment and the Request for Applications process initiated by NC DHHS. It was additionally noted that input would be sought after selection and during the implementation process. NC DHHS staff noted for the record that DHHS was \"actively engaging\" the State Consumer & Family Advisory Committee as an active partner for input as they move forward.\n\nThe NC Department of Health and Human Services has six goals for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program. They are:\n\nThe NC DHHS implementation plan for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program included the following key dates per S.L. 2011-264:\n\nRecognizing the diverse capacity for implementation across the 23 LMEs of the state, North Carolina established the following minimum requirements to participate in the Waiver Program:\n\nThe state enlisted the assistance of a consultant group, Mercer Government Human Services Consulting, to assist in creating and evaluating an LME's ability to meet the minimum standards. It should be noted that if an LME cannot meet the minimum standards established, they will be required to merge with another LME. The process began with 23 LMEs across the state, it is anticipated that by the end of the implementation process there will only be 8–10 LMEs left.\n\nThe State's Strategic Plan for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program provides for performance evaluation. Status reports are required to be submitted to the Legislative Oversight Committee and then be published for all stakeholders. The current schedule for official status reports to be submitted to the General Assembly includes the remaining dates: 10/1/12, 2/1/13, and 10/1/13. Reports will address the Strategic Plan's six objectives and 23 action steps. The six objectives are:\n\nAdditional quantitative and qualitative evaluation processes are being undertaken. The Federal government, through the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, requires both an External Quality Review and a Global Continuous Quality Improvement Team. The State is also forming Intra-departmental Monitoring Teams, an Executive Management Team, and MHDDSA Quality Improvement Steering Committee.\n\nOn the local level, LMEs are required by their contract with DMA to \"submit data and measurements to DMA annually for quality of care and service measures and performance improvement projects for 27 measures in 7 broad areas.\" The reporting areas are:\n\nNC DHHS reports that based on the pilot 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program results to date, \"North Carolina has demonstrated that the State can provide quality mental health, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse services through private and public sector cooperation and at a lesser or comparable cost than fee-for-service program costs for Medicaid eligible population.\" Specifically, in its December 2011 report, NC DHHS shared that \"there is a substantial difference in the average expenditure for care beginning in 2008, with expenditures remaining relatively stable at PBH [Piedmont Behavioral Health, the pilot site for the waiver program], while expenditures soared across the rest of the state.\" \n\nResponse to the policy change has not been all positive, though. Vicki Smith, Executive Director of Disability Rights NC, stated that there is a \"great deal of pressure on DHHS to quickly convert LMEs to Medicaid Waivers so the General Assembly's cost cutting targets can be met.\" \n\nDavid Cornwell, Executive Director of NC Mental Hope, stated that \"between changes OK'd by House Bill 916 and proposed changes in Chapter 122C, it's not just a wrecking ball that will be slamming into our state's system, it's an army of bulldozers and backhoes and mammoth dump trucks lining up to roll over it. And the same legislators that can't see further than next year's budget also don't care if there's a blueprint for the final product, only that there is a sketch of what the next phase will look like.\" \n\nIn 2009 NAMI, National Alliance on Mental Illness, gave the state of North Carolina a D for its mental health system stating that a grade of D \"does not even begin to convey the chaos that now pervades the state's mental health care system...NAMI warned three years ago [2006] that the state's reform initiatives were changing too much, too fast, resulting in an increasingly disorganized environment. This prediction was accurate.\" \n\nPiedmont Behavioral Health, now known as PBH, was chosen as the pilot site for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program in 2005. PBH serves Cabarrus, Davidson, Rowan, Stanly, and Union counties.\n\nMecklenburg County Area Mental Health and Western Highlands Network (the LME serving Buncombe, Henderson, Madison, Mitchell, Polk, Rutherford, Transylvania and Yancey counties) were chosen as the two expansion sites for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program in late 2010.\n\nMecklenburg County Area Mental Health was scheduled to come online with the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver in 2011 but had trouble with policy implementation and \"paused\" their Waiver program in September 2010. In June 2011, the State asked Mecklenburg to reenter the waiver program expansion. Mecklenburg County Area Mental Health is now on track to fully implement the policy in January 2013 in the state's third phase of expansion. In its place, East Carolina Behavioral Health (ECBH) came on line on April 1, 2012. ECBH serves Beaufort, Bertie, Camden, Chowan, Craven, Currituck, Dare, Gates, Hertford, Hyde, Jones, Martin, Northampton, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Pitt, Tyrrell, and Washington counties.\nWestern Highlands Network (WHN) went into effect on January 3, 2012. The 14 months between the date that WHN was announced as an expansion site and the date the waiver went into effect were a flurry of activity. WHN developed both a Care Management/Utilization Management Department to review and authorize requests for services and a Care Coordination Department to provide the administrative function of treatment planning for a select high needs/high risk population. They have additionally formed a Child Transition Team to assist with planning for children in residential treatment settings and a Care Review Team that \"is a resource for Child and Family Teams (CFTM) of high risk youth with serious mental health issues, substance abuse or developmental disabilities and is primarily used to assist CFTM\" in resource identification and planning.\n\nIn July 2012, Smoky Mountain Center and Sandhills Center LMEs are scheduled to come online as Phase II. Phase III will be implemented by January 2013 and will include: Mecklenburg Area Mental Health, CenterPoint Human Services, Durham Center, EastPointe, Pathways, and CoastalCare LMEs. Any unassigned LMEs will be assigned at that point in time.\n\n"}
{"id": "5113593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113593", "title": "NHS Confederation", "text": "NHS Confederation\n\nThe NHS Confederation, formerly the National Association of Health Authorities and Trusts, is a membership body for organisations that commission and provide National Health Service services founded in 1990. The predecessor organisation was called The National Association of Health Authorities in England & Wales.\n\nIt has offices in England, Wales (The Welsh NHS Confederation) and Northern Ireland (the Northern Ireland Confederation for Health and Social Care). \n\nNHS Confederation income is generated via number of different activities. 48% is generated through membership subscriptions; 24% is generated through conferences and events, including sponsorship and exhibitions; and 26% is generated through the reward of grants and contracts. Income is re-invested in the delivery of the NHS Confederation’s charitable objectives and in the development and delivery of its member products and services. The NHS Confederation trustees annual report and accounts are published on the Charity Commission's website.\n\nThe NHS Confederation represents organisations that commission and provide NHS services. Its members include acute trusts, ambulance trusts, community health service providers, foundation trusts, mental health providers, and clinical commissioning groups, and some independent and voluntary sector healthcare organisations that deliver services within the NHS.\n\nIt claims to represent the NHS as a whole and has a number of networks to support its members in areas of specific concern to their part of the healthcare system. These include:\n\n\nNHS Providers, formerly known as the Foundation Trust Network, was a network within the NHS Confederation until it decided to become independent in 2011.\n\nThe NHS Confederation delivers a number of industry-wide support functions for the NHS including:\nThe NHS Confederation holds an annual conference and exhibition for chairs, chief executives and non-executive directors' senior figures and decision makers from health and social care.\n\nThe NHS Confederation produces regular briefings and reports on key health care issues. View their publication online. It also produces an annual guide to the NHS called the NHS Handbook\n\nThe Chief Executive is Niall Dickson. The current chairman is Stephen Dorrell.\n\n"}
{"id": "32465549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32465549", "title": "Nathan Young", "text": "Nathan Young\n\nNathan Young is a fictional character from the British Channel 4 science fiction comedy-drama \"Misfits\", portrayed by Robert Sheehan. He first appeared in Series 1 Episode 1 and departed in an online spinoff entitled Vegas Baby! after Sheehan quit the role. He serves as one of the main protagonists of the show. Nathan is given community service where he is caught up in a storm which gave him the power of immortality. Nathan has also been involved in a romantic relationship with Kelly Bailey (Lauren Socha). Sheehan has been nominated for a BAFTA for his role as Nathan.\n\nCasting for the part was announced on 17 August 2009 by Digital Spy. Fellow cast member Iwan Rheon revealed that Overman who created the character discussed how to write their parts with the cast and later began writing for them as actors. Misfit's executive producer Petra Fried announced Robert Sheehan's decision to leave at the Kapow convention in London on 10 April 2011. His departure was addressed in an online webisode titled Vegas Baby! that debuted on the Misfits website on 15 September. On his decision to leave Sheehan said \"It's nice that the show's successful but it doesn't mean complete blind and unadmonished loyalty - 'If something is very successful you should stick to it like a barnacle!' That's definitely not my thinking. I think I've made the right decision, yeah\". On a possible return Sheehan said \"There's no point in saying never. It holds a very fond little place in my heart. No, it's been a great big part of my life and there's no point in turning your back on something completely. I'm not doing that, I would never say never\".\n\nE4's official website describes Nathan as having \"an answer for everything, sarcastic wit, and a fondness for pushing things too far\" and that \"underneath the cocky quips and sarcasm, Nathan isn’t as unemotionally untouchable as he makes out\". Tim Dowling of \"The Guardian\" described him as the \"Irish one who talks too much\" of the group of \"foul-mouthed young criminals\". Digital Spy described him as a \"smart aleck\". The \"Metro\" described him as \"hyperactive\" and \"irritating as hell\". \"The Independent\" described Nathan as \"cheeky\" before later branding him \"the annoying gobby lad\".\n\nNathan steals some pick 'n' mix from a bowling alley and continues to aggravate the situation. He causes a disruption and when the manager threatens to phone the police he tells him to do so before stapling him in the hand. Nathan is given community service for this disruption. While on his first day of community service, Nathan is caught in a storm. He appears unaffected, unlike those he is doing community service with. Nathan's mother, Louise (Michelle Fairley), kicks him out of his house for his behaviour towards his step-father, Jeremy (Jo Stone-Fewings). Nathan begins living in the community centre. The group kill Tony (Danny Sapani/Louis Decosta Johnson), as an act of self-defense, and bury him. Nathan sleeps with Ruth (Amy Beth Hayes/Clare Welch) who he discovers has been affected by the storm and is really 82 years old. In an alternate timeline, the group are killed because Curtis Donovan (Nathan Stewart-Jarrett) used his power of time travel to change the events, preventing him from ending up in community service; Nathan, however, survives and is told that when found by paramedics he was almost dead. Rachel (Jessica Brown Findlay) begins manipulating people into behaving how she wants through her power of suggestion. Nathan kidnaps Rachel using a gun and takes her to the roof of the community centre. She can't or won't revert those back to their original state and she realises Nathan's gun is only a water pistol. She and Nathan brawl before both falling to their deaths. After Nathan's funeral he wakes up in his coffin, realising he is immortal.\n\nThe group dig Nathan up after they receive a message from Superhoodie. Lucy (Evelyn Hoskins) begins causing trouble for the gang. Kelly Bailey (Lauren Socha) agrees to have sex with Nathan after months of flirting. Lucy, who is a shape shifter, takes on Kelly's form and causes trouble between the pair. Nathan discovers he has a younger brother, Jamie (Sam Keeley). Jamie and Lily (Catrin Stewart) join the group at a nightclub where they take drugs, reversing their powers. Lily's power of cryokinesis is reversed to pyrokinesis and while in a car with Jamie she sets fire to it, killing them both. Nathan, who also has the power of mediumship, sees Jamie's ghost who leads him to his father and they decide to give their relationship another try. Nathan falls in love with Simon Bellamy (Iwan Rheon) after Vince (Nathan Constance) uses his power to tattoo people and control how they feel. Nathan and Kelly decide to consummate their relationship, but Kelly changes her mind when she decides that it would be best if they were just friends. Nathan is killed and deduces it was Jessica (Zawe Ashton) who killed him. When Jessica shows interest in Simon, Nathan tries to warn him off, but Simon does not believe him. They later realise Dave (Adrian Rawlins) is responsible. Brian (Jordan Metcalfe) goes public about his power. The group are exposed and become famous. Brian becomes jealous of the group's fame and begins killing them. He reduces Nathan to a state of vegetation although Curtis rewinds this timeline. Nathan begins a relationship with Marnie (Gwyneth Keyworth), who is pregnant but has no clue who the father of her child is. To support her and her baby, he sells his power of immortality to Seth (Matthew McNulty). As a result of this Nikki (Ruth Negga) is killed. The group steal money that Elliot (Edward Hogg) has collected while falsely claiming to be Jesus Christ reborn to buy new super powers.\n\nIn \"Vegas Baby!\" Nathan along with Marnie and Nathan Junior are staying in Vegas. Using his new power he begins scamming the casinos by using his power to make the dice land on all the right numbers. He is caught out when he uses his power to cheat to get eleven on the dice although he uses the numbers four and seven. He runs back to the hotel room but is eventually caught where he bids farewell to Nathan Junior. Nathan now in an orange jumpsuit is imprisoned and uses his one free call to phone Simon. Rudy Wade (Joseph Gilgun) picks up and states that he is the new guy and he doesn't know a Barry before hanging up. Nathan is last seen being dragged away from the phone by the police to a cell while shouting \"Save me, Barry!\"\n\nSheehan was nominated for a BAFTA for his portrayal of Nathan but lost out to Martin Freeman who stars in Sherlock. Sheehan was nominated for Outstanding Actor in the fiction category at the Monte-Carlo Television Festival in 2011. The Herald described him as a \"curly haired Irish smart alec called Nathan (Robert Sheehan), to whom writer Howard Overman has given all the best lines\". The Guardian also commented that \"So far his only power seems to be the gift of incessant back-chat. Played by Robert Sheehan, he's the breakout star of the show\". The Daily Telegraph describes him as \"Motormouth Nathan was the pivot here, prodding, challenging and provoking the others into revealing themselves\". The Independent responded to the character saying he was \"clearly the most quotable of the quintet\". After Nathan decides to join the circus so he can be repeatedly killed they added \"Quite right: who'd really get all superhero-ish just because they've got some powers?\" The \"Metro\" described him as a \"cult hero\". MSN News described Nathan saying he was \"undoubtedly the star of the show\".\n\nThe Guardian described Sheehan as the \"leading light of E4's Asbo superheroes drama\", describing him as a \"cocky motormouth\" before questioning \"Can Misfits survive without Nathan?\" After the character's exit was confirmed, Digital Spy commented that he was \"much-loved\". Keith Watson of the \"Metro\" commented positively on his exit saying \"rather than dismiss this key character with a couple of lines of mumbled dialogue, his farewell is deftly handled in an online mini-drama all of his own\" saying his time on the show was spent \"bemoaning being short-changed in the superpower department – finally cashes in the chips on his shoulder\" before adding \"he’s going to leave a Misfits-shaped hole in my heart\". Neela Debnath of \"the Independent\" spoke of Sheehan's departure upon the beginning of the third series saying the absence of Nathan, who she described as \"universally popular and well-liked\", was the \"starkest\" difference in the series. Debnath expressed that although for a large number of people Nathan was \"the most entertaining character on the show\" because of his \"schoolboy humour and penchant for annoying everyone but the audience\" his departure did not detract from the quality of the show. \"The Guardian\" branded Nathan their \"favourite cocky yet lovable and immortal character\" but after Rudy's entrance questioned \"As for that void after Nathan left? Well… Nathan who?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25678416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25678416", "title": "National Disability Employment Awareness Month", "text": "National Disability Employment Awareness Month\n\nNational Disability Employment Awareness Month was declared in 1988 by the United States Congress for the month of October to raise awareness of the employment needs and contributions of individuals with all types of disabilities. The month is an extension of \"National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week\" originally observed during the first week of October beginning in 1962. Americans observe National Disability Employment Awareness Month by paying tribute to the accomplishments of the men and women with disabilities whose work helps keep the nation's economy strong and by reaffirming their commitment to ensure equal opportunity for all citizens.\n\nIn 1945, the government pushed to educate the public about issues relating to disabilities and employment. Congress enacted Public Law 176, which declared the first week of October, every year, as National Employ the Physically Handicapped Week. In 1962, the word “physically” was removed to acknowledge the employment needs and contributions of individuals with all types of disabilities. Congress later expanded the first week of October to the entire month of October and changed the name to National Disability Employment Awareness Month in 1988.\n\nIn 1973, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibits any public institutions that receive federal funds to discriminate on the premise of disability. Only two years later in 1975, Education for All Handicapped Children Act was passed requiring public schools that accept federal funding to provide equal education and access to education for disabled children. Years later in 1990, President Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities ACT (ADA) guaranteeing access to and prohibits discrimination against individuals with physical or mental disabilities. In 2000, President Clinton signed an Executive Order, requesting for the federal government to hire 100,000 people with disabilities over the next five years. The final major event that happened is when Congress created the Office of Disability Employment Policy within the Department of Labor.\n\nUnder the United States Department of Labor is an Office of Disability Employment Policy. This office has created the Disability Employment Initiative (DEI) which aims to improve education, training and employment opportunities and outcomes for youth and adults with disabilities who are unemployed, underemployed and/or receiving Social Security disability benefits. Through the DEI, there are 70 Disability Resource Coordinators. Along with State Project Leads, they serve to strengthen the capacity of American Job Centers in hopes of increasing employment opportunities for people with disabilities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWith 62.7% of non-institutionalized persons 16 and older in the workforce, only 19.5% of which have disabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "29945214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29945214", "title": "Oman Medical Journal", "text": "Oman Medical Journal\n\nThe Oman Medical Journal is a bimonthly open access peer-reviewed medical journal. It was established in 1984 and published by the Oman Medical Specialty Board.\n\nThe journal publishes different types of articles from various medical disciplines:\n\nThe Oman Medical Specialty Board awards continuing medical education credits to authors and reviewers of the \"Oman Medical Journal\".\n\nThe journal is indexed in PubMed Central, CINAHL, EBSCO databases, and Expanded Academic ASAP.\n"}
{"id": "37178161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37178161", "title": "Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency", "text": "Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency\n\nThe is a Japanese governmental organization, similar in function to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States or the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom or the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) in India or the European Medicines Agency in Europe.\n\nAmong other things, the agency is tasked with the following.\n\n"}
{"id": "50694921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50694921", "title": "Premarket tobacco application", "text": "Premarket tobacco application\n\nA premarket tobacco application (PMTA) is an application that must be reviewed and approved by the Food and Drug Administration before a new tobacco product can be legally marketed in the United States. The first PMTA, and only to date, was approved by US FDA on November 10, 2015, when the FDA authorized the marketing of eight Swedish Match North America Inc. snus smokeless tobacco products (to be marketed under the brand name \"General\").\n\nA new tobacco product is either a product commercially marketed in the United States after February 15, 2007, or any modification to a tobacco product commercially marketed after February 15, 2007. If a predicate product existed prior to February 15, 2007, applicants can apply via the Substantial Equivalence (SE) regulatory pathway. \n\nOn May 10, 2016, the US FDA finalized its \"deeming\" rule, subjecting additional products to scrutiny under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act as amended by the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. The rule gives the US FDA authority to regulate e-cigarettes, cigars, and vape pens. The rule also authorizes FDA to take enforcement action against manufacturers who sell and distribute products with unsubstantiated modified risk tobacco product (MRTP) claims.\n\nFDA is establishing staggered initial compliance periods based on the expected complexity of the applications to be submitted, followed by continued 12-month compliance periods of FDA review. Substantial Equivalence exemptions have a total compliance period of 24 months and an enforcement deadline of August 8, 2017. Substantial Equivalence applications have a total compliance period of 30 months and an enforcement deadline of February 8, 2018. Premarket tobacco applications have a total compliance period of 36 months and an enforcement deadline of August 8, 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "15554795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15554795", "title": "Protective sequestration", "text": "Protective sequestration\n\nProtective sequestration is a public health term that refers to social distancing measures taken to protect a small, defined, and still-healthy population from an epidemic (or pandemic) \"before\" the infection reaches that population. It is sometimes referred to as \"reverse cordon sanitaire.\"\n\nGiven the extraordinary nature of these measures, they should be considered, if at all, only under exceptional circumstances:\n\nThe term “protective sequestration” was coined by Howard Markel and his colleagues, in their paper that described the successes and failures of several communities in the United States in their attempts to shield themselves from the 1918-1920 so-called “Spanish Influenza” pandemic during the second wave of that pandemic (September–December 1918).\n\nThe term “protective sequestration” avoids the use of the word quarantine, which, in public health, refers to the voluntary or enforced detention of a person who, because of actual or possible contact with a person carrying an infectious agent, may have acquired that agent and be capable of passing it along to others. The duration of the quarantine period is determined by the incubation period of the infection, i.e., the time between acquisition of the infectious agent and the development of signs or symptoms of the illness caused by that agent.\n\nDuring the 1918 flu pandemic, factors that contributed to the rare successes of protective sequestration were the following:\n\nThe best known historical example is the measures taken by the town of Gunnison, Colorado during the 1918 influenza epidemic. To prevent an introduction of the infection, the town isolated itself from the surrounding area for two months at the end of 1918. All highways were barricaded near the county lines. Train conductors warned all passengers that if they stepped outside of the train in Gunnison, they would be arrested and quarantined for five days. As a result of the isolation, no one died of influenza in Gunnison during the epidemic. Several other communities adopted similar measures.\n\nAn advantage of protective sequestration is that it shields selected people from infection and possibly buys them time for the development and distribution of drugs or vaccine. A disadvantage, apart from its elitism and social and economic cost, is that those sequestered have no opportunity to develop naturally-acquired immunity to the infectious agent through contact with it, and, therefore, they remain susceptible to the agent during subsequent waves of the epidemic or pandemic.\n"}
{"id": "26290567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26290567", "title": "Red complex", "text": "Red complex\n\nThe red complex is a group of bacteria that are categorized together based on their association with severe forms of periodontal disease. The red complex—among a number of other complexes—were classified by Sigmund Socransky in 1998.\n\nThe three members of the red complex are:\n"}
{"id": "954401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954401", "title": "Shona Robison", "text": "Shona Robison\n\nShona McRory Robison (born 26 May 1966) is a Scottish politician who is the Scottish National Party Member of the Scottish Parliament for Dundee City East since 2011 and was Cabinet Secretary for Health and Sport 2014–2018. She was elected as a Scottish National Party candidate in the 2003 election. Previously she had represented the SNP as an Additional Members System member for North East Scotland, having been elected in the 1999 election. She first became a member of the Cabinet in April 2014.\n\nBorn in Redcar, England, she went to Alva Academy, and then gained an MA in Social Sciences at Glasgow University in 1989, and gained a Postgraduate Cert in Community Education, obtained in 1990 at Jordanhill College. She was active in the SNP Youth Wing along with figures such as Nicola Sturgeon and Fiona Hyslop.\n\nIn 2003 she became the SNP's Party Spokesperson on Health, remaining in this position until 2007.\n\nAfter the SNP's victory in the 2007 Scottish Parliament Election, Robison was appointed as the Minister for Public Health. In 2009, she was made Minister for Public Health and Sport in a Ministerial reshuffle. Following the 2011 election, she was made Minister for Commonwealth Games and Sport, with Michael Matheson taking on the Minister for Public Health portfolio. In April 2014, Alex Salmond promoted her to the full Cabinet position of Cabinet Secretary for Commonwealth Games, Sport, Equalities and Pensioners' Rights. Robison was moved to the Health brief, as Cabinet Secretary for Health, Wellbeing and Sport, in Nicola Sturgeon's first Ministerial reshuffle in November 2014. On 18 May 2016 Sturgeon reshuffled her cabinet with Robison remaining, with her position now being called Cabinet Secretary for Health and Sport.\n\nOn 26 June 2018 her resignation from the Cabinet was announced, immediately ahead of a cabinet reshuffle.\n\nShe was married to Stewart Hosie, who is the Westminster MP for Dundee East and was previously the SNP's Depute Leader. They have one daughter. It was announced on 15 May 2016 that the couple have separated. This was followed by reports that Hosie had had an affair with Westminster-based freelance journalist Serena Cowdy.\n\n"}
{"id": "44246992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44246992", "title": "Swasth Jeevan Sewa Guarantee Yojana", "text": "Swasth Jeevan Sewa Guarantee Yojana\n\nSwasth Jeevan Sewa Guarantee Yojana or Swasthya Sewa Guarantee Scheme is Government of Madhya Pradesh scheme for delivery of public health services.\n"}
{"id": "1298640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298640", "title": "Takashi Nagai", "text": "Takashi Nagai\n\nTakashi (meaning \"nobility\") Nagai had a difficult birth that endangered his and his mother's life. His family was highly educated. His father, Noboru Nagai, was trained in Western medicine; his paternal grandfather, Fumitaka Nagai, was a practitioner of traditional herbal medicine; and his mother, Tsune, was the descendant of an old family of samurai.\n\nNagai was raised in the rural area of Mitoya and raised in according to the teachings of Confucius and the Shinto religion. In 1920, he commenced his secondary studies at Matsue High School boarding at his cousins' home close by. He became increasingly interested with the surrounding atheism but was curious about Christianity.\n\nIn April 1928, he joined the Nagasaki Medical College where he joined the Araragi, a poetry group founded by Mokichi Saito and the university basketball team (he measured 1.71 m and weighed 70 kg).\n\nIn 1930 his mother died from a brain haemorrhage, which lead him to ponder the works of philosopher and scientist Blaise Pascal. He began to read the Pensées which influenced his later conversion to Christianity and boarded with the Moriyama family, who for seven generations had been the hereditary leaders of a group of Kakure Kirishitans in Urakami. Takashi learned that the construction of the nearby cathedral was financed by poor Christian farmers and fishermen.\n\nHe graduated in 1932 and was supposed to deliver an address at the ceremony. However, five days before he became intoxicated at a farewell party and had returned home completely soaked with water from the rain. He slept without drying himself and found the next morning that he had contracted a disease of the right ear (signs of meningitis), which made him depressed and partially deaf. He could not practice medicine and agreed to turn to radiology research.\n\nOn 24 December, Sadakichi Moriyama invited Nagai to participate in a midnight Mass. In the cathedral, Takashi was impressed by the people in prayer, their singing, their faith and the sermon. He would later say: \"I felt somebody close to me whom I did not still know.\" The next night, Sadakichi's daughter Midori was struck down by acute appendicitis. Nagai made a quick diagnosis, telephoned the surgeon at the hospital and carried Midori there on his back through the snow. The operation was successful; Midori, survived.\n\nIn January 1933, Takashi began his military service. In Manchuria, Nagai cared for the wounded and the sanitary service. He was strongly shaken in his faith in Japanese culture when saw for himself the exactions of the Japanese soldiers and their brutality towards the Chinese civilian population. Upon his return, he continued his reading of the Catholic catechism, the Bible, and the \"Pensées of Blaise Pascal\". He met with a priest, Father Matsusaburo Moriyama, whose father had been deported to Tsuwano (Shimane Prefecture) for his faith, along with many other Christian villagers in Urakami by the Meiji Government from the 1860s to the 1870s (Urakami Yoban Kuzure). Eventually, Nagai's spiritual progress took a decisive turn when he thought about Pascal's words: \"There is enough light for those who only desire to see, and enough obscurity for those who have a contrary disposition.\"\n\nOn 9 June 1934, Nagai received baptism in the Catholic faith. He chose the Christian first name Paul and proposed to Midori. They married in August and had four children: a boy, Makoto (3 April 1935 – 4 April 2001), and three daughters, Ikuko (7 July 1937 – 1939), Sasano who died shortly after her birth, and Kayano (18 August 1941 – 2 February 2008).\n\nTakashi received the sacrament of confirmation in December 1934. Midori was president of the association of the women of the Urakami district. Takashi became a member of the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul (SSVDP), discovered its founder, Frédéric Ozanam, and his writings, and visited his patients and the poor, to whom he brought assistance, comfort and food. From 1931 to 1936, Father Maximilian Kolbe lived in a suburb of Nagasaki, where he started a monastery. Takashi met him several times.\n\nThe day after the birth of his first daughter Ikuko, the war between Japan and China broke out and he was mobilized as surgeon in the service of the 5th division. He was affected by the harsh winter in China, and the distress of the civilians and soldiers, both Chinese and Japanese. On 4 February 1939, he received news of the death of his father and that of his daughter Ikuko. He remained in China until 1940. Upon his return, he continued his studies at the college.\n\nAfter Japan declared war on the United States on 8 December 1941, Nagai had a somber presentiment: His city could be destroyed during this war.\n\nHe obtained his doctorate in 1944. On 26 April 1945, an air raid on Nagasaki left numerous victims. The hospital was overwhelmed. Takashi spent his days and nights serving the wounded in his radiology department. In June 1945, he was diagnosed with leukemia and given a life expectancy of three years. This disease was probably due to his exposure to X-rays during radiological examinations which he performed by direct observation, since films were not available during the war period. He spoke to Midori about his disease, and she said to Nagai, \"Whether you live or die, it is for God's glory.\"\n\nIn the evening of 6 August, Nagai learned that an atomic bomb had been dropped by the Americans on Hiroshima. With Midori, he decided to take their children away to Matsuyama, 6 km away in the countryside, accompanied by Midori's mother.\n\nOn 9 August 1945, at 11:02 am, the second atomic bomb struck Nagasaki. At the time of the atomic bombing, Dr. Nagai was working in the radiology department of Nagasaki Medical College Hospital. He received a serious injury that severed his right temporal artery but joined the rest of the surviving medical staff in dedicating themselves to treating the atomic bomb victims. He wrote a 100-page medical report about his observations detailing the \"concentric circles of death\" around the epicentre of the blast.\n\nOn 11 August, he found his house destroyed and his wife dead. Months later, Nagai was found to be seriously affected by his head wound. He was confined to bed for a month, with death for a time seeming close as he began suffering from Cheyne-Stokes respiration. According to Nagai, when he drank water taken from Lourdes in Honkawachi, where Fr. Kolbe had founded a monastery, he heard a voice urge him to ask an intercession from the priest.\n\nHe returned to the district of Urakami (the epicenter of the bomb) on 15 October 1945 and built a small hut (about six tatami from pieces of his old house. He remained there with his two surviving children (Makoto and Kayano), his mother-in-law, and two other relatives.\n\nIn 1947, the local Society of Saint Vincent de Paul (SSVDP) built a simple two-tatami teahouse-like structure for him. Nagai named it \"Nyokodo\" (如己堂, Nyoko-dō to, literally \"As-Yourself Hall\", after Jesus' words, \"Love your neighbor as yourself.\" He styled it as a hermitage and spent his remaining years in prayer and contemplation.\n\nFor six months, he observed mourning for Midori and let his beard and hair grow. On 23 November 1945, a mass was celebrated, in front of the ruins of the cathedral, for the victims of the bomb. Takashi gave a speech filled with faith, comparing the victims to a sacred offering to obtain peace.\n\nIn the following years, Nagai resumed teaching and began to write books. The first of these, \"The Bells of Nagasaki\", was completed by the first anniversary of the bombing. Although he failed to find a publisher at first, eventually it became a best seller and the basis for a top box-office movie in Japan. In July 1946, he collapsed on a station platform. Now disabled, he was henceforth confined to bed.\n\nIn 1948, he used 50,000 yen paid by \"Kyushu Times\" to plant 1,000 three-year-old cherry trees in the district of Urakami to transform this devastated land into a \"Hill of Flowers\". Although some have been replaced, these cherry trees are still called \"Nagai Senbonzakura\" (\"1,000 cherry trees of Nagai\"); their flowers decorate the houses of Urakami in spring. By 2010, the numbers of these cherry trees were reduced to only about 20 due to aging and other causes.\n\nOn 3 December 1949, he was made freeman of the city of Nagasaki. He received a visit from Helen Keller in October 1948. He was visited, in 1949, by Emperor Hirohito and by Cardinal Gilroy of Australia, a papal emissary.\n\nOn 1 May 1951, he asked to be transported to the college hospital so that the medical students could observe the last moments of a man preparing to die from leukemia. He prolonged the day of hospitalization to wait for the statue of Our Lady, a gift from the Italian Catholic Medical Association.\n\nUntil the evening, his condition seemed stable. However, around 9:40pm, Nagai complained of dizziness and became unconscious. After two injections of cardiotonics, he regained his consciousness and prayed \"Jesus, Mary, Joseph, into your hands, I entrust my soul.\" Then he took the cross from the hand of his son Makoto, who rushed into the room, and shortly after he shouted the words \"Please pray!\" Nagai breathed his last at 9:50 pm. He died at the age of 43. On the following day, his body underwent an autopsy at the hospital according to his will. His spleen had swelled to 3,410g (normal weight: 94g), and his liver weighed 5,035g (normal weight: 1,400g).\n\nOn 3 May, his funeral Mass was celebrated by Bishop Paul Aijirō Yamaguchi in front of the cathedral. On 14 May, an official ceremony took place in memory of Nagai. An estimated 20,000 attended. The city of Nagasaki observed one minute of silence while the bells of all the religious buildings rang. His remains were interred in the Sakamoto international cemetery.\n\nHis \"Nyokodo\", with the addition of a library, became a museum in 1952: the Nagasaki City Nagai Takashi Memorial Museum. After undergoing restoration in 2000, it is managed today by Tokusaburo Nagai, the grandson of Takashi Nagai and son of Makoto Nagai.\n\nThe Dr. Takashi Nagai Memorial Museum is in Unnan City, Shimane Prefecture, where he spent his childhood.\n\nHis name was added to the Monument to the X-ray and Radium Martyrs of All Nations erected in Hamburg, Germany.\nIn 1991, the Takashi Nagai Peace Award was founded. In Nagasaki, with the purpose of annually awarding individuals and/or organizations, both domestic and overseas, for their contributions to world peace through the improvements and developments of medicare for hibakusha and related social welfare, the Takashi Nagai Memorial Nagasaki Peace Award was founded.\n\nOn 1 April 2003, for the succession of Nagai's spirit and a center to offer medical care for domestic and overseas hibakusha, the Nagai Takashi Memorial International Hibakusha Medical Center was founded at Nagasaki University Hospital.\n\nShunichi Yamashita, the director of the center, who was appointed as an adviser to Fukushima prefecture on radiation exposure after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, wrote:\"I myself is just a younger alumnus of the same university, I found Nagai Takashi Memorial International Hibakusha Medical Center at Nagasaki University Hospital. Furthermore, by founding the Takashi Nagai Memorial Nagasaki Peace Award as an international activity of Nagasaki Association for Hibakushas' Medical Care, I am making an effort in order to honor the doctor for a long time succeeding the last wishes of those who knows the doctor like the late Soshino Hisamatsu, the director of nursing service department.\"\n\nIn Korea in 2004, the Most Rev. Paul Moon-hee Rhee, then Archbishop of Daegu, founded the Korean Association of \"Love Your Neighbor as Yourself\".\n\nAlthough Nagai opposed the use of nuclear weapons, he hoped atomic energy might be used for peaceful purposes. At the end of \"Atomic Bomb Rescue and Relief Report\", he writes:\n\"We should utilize the principle of the atomic bomb. Go forward in the research of atomic energy contributing to the progress of civilization. A misfortune will then be transformed to good fortune. The world civilization will change with the utilization of atomic energy. If a new and fortunate world can be made, the souls of so many victims will rest in peace.\"\n\nNagai left behind a voluminous output of essays, memoirs, drawings, and calligraphy on themes including God, war, death, medicine, and orphanhood. These enjoyed a large readership during the American occupation of Japan (1945–52) as spiritual chronicles of the atomic bomb experience. His books have been translated into languages, including Chinese, Korean, French, and German. Three of his literary works are currently available in English: \"We of Nagasaki\", a compilation of atomic-bomb victim testimonies edited by Nagai; \"The Bells of Nagasaki\" (trans. William Johnston); and \"Leaving My Beloved Children Behind\" (trans. Maurice M. Tatsuoka and Tsuneyoshi Takai). His works were recently republished in new Japanese editions by Paulist Press.\n\nMuch of Nagai's writing is spiritual, consisting of Christian reflections on the experience (or, just as often, imagined future experience) of himself and the people around him, especially his children, in the aftermath of the war. His intensely personal meditations are often addressed to his children or to God, and he works out his own spiritual issues on the page as he writes in a visceral and uncensored prose. Nagai's more technical writings, in \"Atomic Bomb Rescue and Relief Report\" (\"Nagasaki Idai Genshi Bakudan Kyuugo Houkoku\"), were discovered in 1970.\n\n\"Records of the Atomic Wasteland\" (原子野録音 \"Genshiya Rokuon\"), a series in the Japanese journal \"The Knights of the Immaculata\" (聖母の騎士 Seibo no Kishi), 1947–1951.\nNOTE: Dates of publication do not reflect the order in which the works were written; some were published posthumously, and all have been subsequently re-compiled for the Paulist editions.\n\n\n\nA Bright Port (輝やく港 Kagayaku Minato)\n\nIn July 1949 a song titled \"Nagasaki no Kane\" (\"The Bells of Nagasaki\") was released by Columbia Records. It was sung by Ichiro Fujiyama with lyrics by Hachiro Sato. Yuji Koseki was the composer for the song.\n\nNagai's \"The Bells of Nagasaki\" was used as the basis for a film of the same name produced by Shochiku movie studios and directed by Hideo Ōba. It was released on 23 September 1950. \"Leaving These Children Behind\" was filmed by Keisuke Kinoshita in 1983.\n\nThe British film production company Pixel Revolution Films released the film \"All That Remains\" based on the life of Nagai in 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49931550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49931550", "title": "The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA)", "text": "The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA)\n\nThe Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA) is an open-access database of medical images for cancer research. The site is funded by the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Cancer Imaging Program, and the contract is operated by the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. Data within the archive is organized into collections which typically share a common cancer type and/or anatomical site. The majority of the data consists of CT, MRI, and nuclear medicine (e.g. PET) images stored in DICOM format, but many other types of supporting data are also provided or linked to, in order to enhance research utility. All data are de-identified in order to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and National Institutes of Health data sharing policies.\n\nTCIA resources are intended to support:\n\nTCIA is recognized as a recommended repository for Nature Scientific Data, PLOS One, and F1000Research. It is also listed in the Registry of Research Data Repositories.\n\nPrior to the creation of TCIA, the NCI funded development of the National Biomedical Imaging Archive. NBIA is an open-source Web application which was designed to allow the storage and query of DICOM images. TCIA was subsequently initiated in December 2010 to expand data sharing activities by funding a service component which would help address the technical and policy challenges associated with medical imaging research. TCIA leverages open-source tools such as NBIA and Clinical Trials Processor in order to provide its services.\n\nThe site content is organized into five categories:\n\nMost collections on the Cancer Imaging Archive can be accessed without an account, but a few are restricted to specific users and therefore require an account to access them. TCIA has several ways to browse, filter, and download data. They include:\n\nThe home page includes a list of all available collections. Basic information about the data such as the cancer type, cancer location, modalities, and number of subjects are also provided. Clicking on a collection name presents a page which describes the data including its original research purpose, how the data were generated, and how it might be useful to other TCIA users. For example, describes the NSCLC-Radiomics-Genomics Collection. In the lower section of the page there are links to search or download the images and any available supporting data in the Data Access tab. Additional tabs provide information about data versions and how to cite the data if used in publications.\n\nMany collections contain additional data types such as genomics, patient demographics, treatment details, and expert analyses of the images. This data is usually only found by browsing the collection pages as opposed to searching in NBIA or using the API.\n\nOn each Collection page and also in the main menu of the site there are links to \"Search TCIA\". This will load the NBIA application which allows simple, advanced and free text searches. Search results follow the conventional DICOM hierarchy of patient -> study -> series. TCIA provides comprehensive documentation on the various features of the NBIA software.\n\nA number of search and download commands are also available through the API. New iterations on the API are released as new versions, so that existing applications developed against older versions of the API continue to function.\n\nA list of known publications based on TCIA data is maintained as a convenience to researchers who might want to investigate how it has been used previously. In addition to peer-reviewed publications there are also several major research initiatives described in the Research Activities section of the site.\n\nA large number of collections contain subjects which were analyzed as part of the NIH/NHGRI database known as The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). This offers researchers the ability to correlate clinical images using shared unique identifiers each study that has in TCGA extensive genomic analysis, digital pathology slides and bulk download of individual demographic data and clinical data. A multi-institutional network of investigators volunteering their time is using the data to develop methods to determine prognosis or predict the response to therapy. TCGA collections are designated by nomenclature shared by the TCGA Data Portal (e.g.: TCGA-BRCA, TCGA-GBM, etc). They are subject to a special publication policy which is unique from the other public data on TCIA.\n\nTCIA also provides specific data sets used for \"Challenge\" competitions such as international digital image-focused professional societies like MICCAI, SPIE, or ISBI. A directory of previous and upcoming challenges is maintained on the site.\n\nTo facilitate data sharing, many publications encourage authors to include data citations to the data that the authors used in creating the results described in their scholarly papers. In addition, new journals are now available for describing data collections outright (e.g., Nature \"Scientific Data\"). TCIA assigns digital object identifiers (DOIs) to all collections when they are submitted, and also has the ability to create persistent identifiers linked to subsets of data held within TCIA that authors may use for data citations in their scholarly papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "18167864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18167864", "title": "Unnatural Causes: Is Inequality Making Us Sick?", "text": "Unnatural Causes: Is Inequality Making Us Sick?\n\nUnnatural Causes: Is Inequality Making Us Sick? is a four-hour documentary series, broadcast nationally on PBS in spring 2008, that examines the role of social determinants of health in creating health inequalities/health disparities (which the film considers health inequities) in the United States. Based on extensive research by a wide variety of academics, public health experts, and medical practitioners, the seven-part series explores how class and racism can have greater impacts on one's health outcomes than genetics or personal behavior.\n\nThe opening 56-minute episode, \"In Sickness and In Wealth\", presents the series’ overarching themes. Each supporting half-hour episode, set in a different ethnic/racial community, provides a deeper exploration of how social conditions affect population health, and how some communities are extending their lives by improving them.\n\n\"Produced by Christine Herbes-Sommers and Llewellyn M. Smith; Co-produced by Julie Crawford; Directed by: Llewellyn M. Smith\"\n\nThe first hour of the series presents a general framework for understanding the relevance of social determinants of health in creating health inequalities in the United States. The episode introduces the U.S.’s poor health statistics (according to the film) compared to other wealthy industrialized countries, then presents research from Michael Marmot’s Whitehall studies, which found that health status and wealth correlate on a continuous gradient from the poor to the wealthy. To understand why this gradient exists, the program looks at the negative health effects of chronic stress, and at evidence that those lower on the social spectrum suffer more from exposure to “toxic stress.” Throughout the program, these fairly academic and complex arguments about stress, class, and health are humanized through the stories of four residents of Louisville, Kentucky, from four different socio-economic levels. Through looking at the lives of a hospital CEO, a lab supervisor, a janitor, and an unemployed mother, the program illustrates how stress increases and control over one’s life decreases as one moves down the socio-economic ladder, with very real consequences for health.\n\nThe program includes interviews with the following experts: Nicholas Christakis (Medical Sociologist, Harvard University), Sheldon Cohen (Psychologist, Carnegie Mellon University), Ana Diez Roux (Epidemiologist, University of Michigan), Tony Iton (Director, Alameda County Public Health Dept.), Ichiro Kawachi (Epidemiologist, Harvard School of Public Health), Nancy Krieger (Social Epidemiologist, Harvard School of Public Health), Michael Marmot (Epidemiologist, University College London), Bruce McEwen (Neuroscientist, Rockefeller University), Carol Shively (Comparative Psychologist, Wake Forest University), Jack P. Shonkoff (Pediatrician, Harvard Center on the Developing Child), S. Leonard Syme (Epidemiologist, UC Berkeley), Adewale Troutman (Director, Louisville Metro Public Health & Wellness), and David Williams (Sociologist, Harvard School of Public Health).\n\n\"Produced by Tracy Heather Strain, Randall MacLowry, and Eric Stange; Directed by Tracy Heather Strain\"\n\nThis episode examines the phenomenon that African American women, on average, are significantly more likely to give birth to premature and/or low-weight babies than white women, even when studies control for factors like income and education. Interviews with neonatologists James Collins (Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago) and Richard David (Stroger Hospital of Cook County) present the theory that this inequality could be due in part to lifelong exposure to the chronic stress of racism. After providing evidence against genetic causes for the disparity, the program further explores how exposure to racism might affect health. Obstetrician Michael Lu (UCLA School of Medicine) discusses the “life course model,” which posits that an individual’s health is determined not only by genetics and current circumstances, but by all circumstances experienced since conception (and even before). The negative physiological effects of chronic stress during pregnancy are discussed, and interviews with David Williams (Sociologist, Harvard School of Public Health), Camara Phyllis Jones (Physician and Social Epidemiologist, CDC), Nancy Krieger (Social Epidemiologist, Harvard School of Public Health), Carol Hogue (Epidemiologist, Emory University), and Fleda Jackson (Psychologist, Emory University) explore the legacy and persistence of racism against African Americans in the United States.\n\nThe episode weaves in the personal story of Kim Anderson, a well-paid African American lawyer in good health, who “did everything right,” but still delivered her first child two and a half months early.\n\n\"Produced and directed by Patricia Garcia Rios and Maria Teresa Rodriguez\"\n\nThis episode discusses the phenomenon that new Latino immigrants, though often poor, generally have better health than the average American. Evidence that social ties are good for health is considered as a possible factor in this health advantage, sometimes called the \"Latino Paradox.\"\n\n\"Produced and directed by James M. Fortier (Métis-Ojibway); Co-produced by Sativa January\"\n\nThis episode examines the very high rates of adult onset diabetes among the Pima Indians of southwest Arizona. The film states that forty years of research have produced no evidence of a genetic cause; the program explores how the tribe’s diet changed dramatically when the diversion of water to white farmers and cities made the reservation residents dependent on government food programs to avoid starvation. Now that the Tohono O'odham tribe has regained their water rights and is returning to farming, community groups are working to promote cultural renewal and new economic opportunities, hoping improve diets and living conditions and beat diabetes.\n\n\"Produced and directed by Ellie Lee\"\n\nThis episode considers the importance of neighborhood environments (such as pollution, violence, parks, and schools) to health. The program first travels to Richmond, California, to meet Gwai Boonkeut, a Laotian immigrant in his forties who recently suffered a major heart attack. Looking at the urban blight, lack of services, pollution, and violence endemic to Richmond since its post-World War II decline, the show considers how a neighborhood environment may limit healthy choices and contribute to chronic stress for its residents. Interviews with scholars and community action groups also present evidence that the poor state of many of the country's inner cities arose from historical factors and government housing policies that favored the white middle class. The program then travels to Seattle to see how community activists, public health officials, and others came together to transform the High Point neighborhood.\n\n\"Directed and produced by Eric Stange; Co-produced by Kimberlee Bassford\"\n\nThis episode looks at the legacy of United States presence in the equatorial Pacific nation of the Marshall Islands. Decades ago, local residents were relocated from their home islands to make way for U.S. nuclear weapons testing. While the program mentions the immediate health consequences for the Marshallese people due to nuclear fallout from testing, it also goes further to consider how the military presence continues to affect the small nation. Specifically, it considers the relationship between the U.S. military base on Kwajalein, where American citizens live relatively healthy, middle-class lives, and Ebeye, home to most of the base's Marshallese employees, where overcrowding, failing infrastructure, and poverty contribute to chronic tuberculosis and low life expectancies. The episode ends with a brief look at the Marshallese community in Springdale, Arkansas.\n\n\"Directed and produced by James Rutenbeck; Co-produced by Franziska Blome\"\n\nThis episode explores how the closing of the Electrolux factory in Greenville, Michigan had serious negative effects on the health of the community. The program ends by comparing the situation in Greenville with that of Västervik, Sweden, where workers who lost their jobs after an Electrolux factory closure fared much better due to income and educational supports.\n\n\"Unnatural Causes\" was produced by the San Francisco-based non-profit California Newsreel, in collaboration with Boston-based Vital Pictures. The series was scheduled for national PBS broadcast March 27 through April 17, 2008, and shown by 180 affiliate stations. National Minority Consortia acted as the series' public television presenter. California Newsreel distributes the series on DVD.\n\nThe series producers, in collaboration with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies Health Policy Institute, undertook a campaign to raise awareness of the series' utility for public education and mobilizing. Several major health and labor groups have adopted the series for their own work, including the National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO), the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Kaiser Permanente, and the Blue Cross Foundation of Minnesota.\n\n"}
{"id": "49432423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49432423", "title": "WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme", "text": "WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) Pesticide Evaluation Scheme (WHOPES) was established in 1960 for setting norms and standards for public health pesticides.\n\n"}
{"id": "39351468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39351468", "title": "Workout from Within with Jeff Halevy", "text": "Workout from Within with Jeff Halevy\n\nWorkout From Within with Jeff Halevy is an American syndicated talk show airing weekly in the U.S. It debuted on April 25, 2013. The half-hour-long primetime program is produced and distributed in the U.S. by Veria.\n\nThe show’s focus is on healthy living, including the mental, physical, and nutritional aspects of same. Show host, Jeff Halevy and his guests, which include professional athletes and celebrities such as football legend Tiki Barber and super model Emme, share their personal healthy living experiences and challenges, as Halevy both guides and interviews them on each episode. Topics covered include motivation, couples workouts, diet, exercise, nutrition, weekend warriors, and staying on track with a healthy regimen.\nOne of the show's signature concepts is making a healthy lifestyle easy. Halevy has demonstrated this concept on various national morning shows, through both exercise, meditation, and nutrition advice.\n\n"}
