{"id": "52541051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52541051", "title": "Abandoned vehicle", "text": "Abandoned vehicle\n\nAbandoned vehicles are decrepit cars that have become useless in other ways, which are abandoned and illegally dumped in the environment. Abandoned vehicles will be tagged with an official notice when found or reported. Criteria for \"abandonment\" may differ, and a minimum duration of abandonment on the order of a few days to weeks is required. When reporting such a vehicle, the required data will usually comprise the exact location, the make, colour and type, and - if available and readable - possibly the VIN and the licence plate. Costs for removal will as a rule be taken by public councils.\n\nAbandoned cars use up space in the environment and, just like other waste, pose considerable risks for public health.\n\nA common definition is that the vehicle must have been left on (foreign) private or public property for a minimum duration (≥ 24 hours) or it hasn't been reclaimed after being impounded after a minimum number of days.\n\nThe definition of an \"abandoned vehicle\" varies widely across the states and larger cities of the USA.\nIn Iowa, for example, the following criteria apply:\n\n“Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:\n\nA number of differing criteria are listed here in no specific order:\n\nAs in the US, there is not one single set of rules. Following is an arbitrary selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "46509086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46509086", "title": "Anti-Moiety Acts", "text": "Anti-Moiety Acts\n\nPresident Ulysses S. Grant signed a series of laws during his first and second terms that limited the number of special tax agents and prevented or reduced the collection of delinquent taxes under a commissions or moiety system. The public outcry over the Sanborn incident caused the Grant administration to abolish the practice of appointing special treasury agents to collect commissions or moieties on delinquent taxes.\n\nIn 1872, President Ulysses S. Grant signed into law the Revenue Act, which restricted the number of informers who collected taxes from delinquent taxpayers and who received a percentage of commissions, known as moieties, from the collected taxes. This was the first restriction of the federal moiety system that had been authorized by Congress in 1853. The Revenue Act of 1872 was considered a first step towards Civil Service Reform by President Ulysses S. Grant. The Revenue Act restricted the U.S. Treasury Department to contract to no more than three informers to collect taxes from delinquent taxpayers or businesses. The law was initially designed to prevent or reduce the number of false accusations and blackmail by the informers appointed by the Secretary of Treasury to collect taxes. The appointed informers were to receive a percentage of delinquent taxes collected. Grant's Secretary of Treasury George S. Boutwell made the initial informer collector contracts.\n\nIn August 1872 acting Secretary of Treasury William A. Richardson contracted informer collector John D. Sanborn who would receive 50% commissions from delinquent taxes collected from railroads, distillers, and others. Secretary Boutwell had been elected to the Senate. An 1874 House Ways and Means Committee revealed that Richardson had authorized regular treasury collector agents to reduce their amount of regular collections so Sanborn could receive more delinquent accounts. Sanborn immediately began to collect taxes by intimidation, receiving upwards of $420,000 in profit commissions which he split with unknown partners. Sanborn himself retained $213,000 in profits. The investigation revealed that the whole power of the Internal Revenue Bureau was placed under the authority of Sanborn. During the investigation, Grant quietly appointed Richardson to the Court of Claims and replaced him with Benjamin H. Bristow.\n\nConcerned over the public outcry over the Sanborn incident, President Grant on June 22, 1874 signed a bill into law that completely put an end to the moiety contract system prohibiting the Secretary of Treasury to appoint special agent moiety Treasury collectors.\n"}
{"id": "16995850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995850", "title": "Argentine nationality law", "text": "Argentine nationality law\n\nArgentine nationality law has a dual system accepting Jus soli and Jus sanguinis.\n\nAny person born in Argentine territory acquires Argentine citizenship at birth, excepting children of persons in the service of a foreign government such as foreign diplomats. This can be also applied to people born in the Falkland Islands, a disputed territory between Argentina and the United Kingdom.\n\nArgentina accepts jus sanguinis, meaning that the child of at least one native Argentine parent acquires Argentine citizenship.\n\nThe current laws governing citizenship (Ley 346, Ley 23.059, and Decreto 3.213/84) set forth very simple requirements:\n\n\nCitizenship can be denied if applicants:\n\nAs the citizenship law has existed essentially unchanged since 1869 (with modifications by laws 16.801, 20.835, 24.533 and 24951), there are many precedents based on which the Supreme Court is able to resolve almost any immigration-related problem. Citizenship has been granted to immigrants who were not legally resident, worked without a legal permit, or entered the country illegally and, in exceptional cases, even to immigrants with criminal records.\n\nIn 2011 the Federal Chamber of Paraná established that nobody can be considered an illegal alien in Argentina, since the concept of legality applies only to actions violating criminal laws. The violation of the immigration law is a simple administrative issue that can be remedied by applying for residency or citizenship.\n\nThe continuous 2-year residency requirement means that applicants need to make Argentina their home. However, since applicants enjoy the same civil rights as Argentines, including the right to travel, they may leave the country.\n\nFor historical reasons, federal courts are still reluctant to recognize the rights of \"irregular\" immigrants. They usually request the following requirements related to the abolished law 21.795:\n\n\nDual citizenship is accepted by Argentina. However, dual nationals are recognised only as Argentine citizens within Argentine territory, and must enter Argentina using an Argentine passport, except when visiting for fewer than 90 days, in which case they can enter and leave using their foreign passport. \nUnlike many other countries, Argentine citizenship cannot be renounced. Consequently an Argentine citizen may not be able to acquire the citizenship of a country that requires renunciation of other citizenships; however, many countries waive this requirement if renouncing the other citizenship is impossible.\n"}
{"id": "2998260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998260", "title": "Armistice of Cassibile", "text": "Armistice of Cassibile\n\nThe Armistice of Cassibile was an armistice signed on 3 September 1943 by Walter Bedell Smith and Giuseppe Castellano, and made public on 8 September, between the Kingdom of Italy and the Allies during World War II. It was signed at a conference of generals from both sides in an Allied military camp at Cassibile in Sicily, which had recently been occupied by the Allies. The armistice was approved by both King Victor Emmanuel III and Italian Prime Minister Pietro Badoglio. The armistice stipulated the surrender of Italy to the Allies.\n\nAfter its publication, Germany retaliated against Italy, attacking Italian forces in Italy, South of France and the Balkans. Italian forces were quickly defeated and most of Italy was occupied by German troops, while the King, the government and most of the navy reached territories occupied by the Allies.\n\nFollowing the surrender of the Axis powers in North Africa on 13 May 1943, the Allies bombed Rome first on 16 May, invaded Sicily on 10 July and were preparing to land on the Italian mainland.\n\nIn the spring of 1943, preoccupied by the disastrous situation of the Italian military in the war, Italian dictator Benito Mussolini removed several figures from the government whom he considered to be more loyal to King Victor Emmanuel III than to the Fascist regime. These moves by Mussolini were described as slightly hostile acts to the king, who had been growing increasingly critical of the war.\n\nTo help carry out his plan, the King asked for the assistance of Dino Grandi. Grandi was one of the leading members of the Fascist hierarchy and, in his younger years, he had been considered to be the sole credible alternative to Mussolini as leader of the National Fascist Party. The King was also motivated by the suspicion that Grandi's ideas about Fascism might be changed abruptly. Various ambassadors, including Pietro Badoglio himself, proposed to him the vague possibility of succeeding Mussolini as dictator.\n\nThe secret frondeur later involved Giuseppe Bottai, another high member of the Fascist directorate and Minister of Culture, and Galeazzo Ciano, probably the second most powerful man in the Fascist party and Mussolini's son-in-law. The conspirators devised an \"Order of the Day\" for the next reunion of the Grand Council of Fascism (\"Gran Consiglio del Fascismo\") which contained a proposal to restore direct control of politics to the king. Following the Council, held on 23 July 1943, where the \"order of the day\" was adopted by majority vote, Mussolini was summoned to meet the King and dismissed as Prime Minister. Upon leaving the meeting, Mussolini was arrested by \"carabinieri\" and spirited off to the island of Ponza. Badoglio took the position of Prime Minister. This went against what had been promised to Grandi, who had been told that another general of greater personal and professional qualities (Enrico Caviglia) would have taken the place of Mussolini.\n\nThe appointment of Badoglio apparently did not change the position of Italy as Germany's ally in the war. However, many channels were being probed to seek a peace treaty with the Allies. Meanwhile, Hitler sent several divisions south of the Alps, officially to help defend Italy from allied landings but in reality to control the country.\n\nThree Italian generals (including Giuseppe Castellano) were separately sent to Lisbon in order to contact Allied diplomats. However, to start out the proceedings the Allies had to solve a problem concerning who was the most authoritative envoy: the three generals had in fact soon started to quarrel about the question of who enjoyed the highest authority. In the end, Castellano was admitted to speak with the Allies in order to set the conditions for the surrender of Italy. Among the representatives of the Allies, there was the British ambassador to Portugal, Sir Ronald Hugh Campbell, and two generals sent by Dwight D. Eisenhower, the American Walter Bedell Smith (Eisenhower's Chief of Staff) and the British Kenneth Strong (Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence).\n\nOn 27 August Castellano returned to Italy and, three days later, briefed Badoglio about the Allied request for a meeting to be held in Sicily, which had been suggested by the British ambassador to the Vatican.\n\nTo ease communication between the Allies and the Italian Government, a captured British SOE agent, Dick Mallaby, was released from Verona prison and secretly moved to the Quirinale. It was vital that the Germans remained ignorant of any suggestion of Italian surrender and the SOE was seen as the most secure method in the circumstances.\n\nBadoglio still considered it possible to gain favourable conditions in exchange for the surrender. He ordered Castellano to insist that any surrender of Italy be conditioned on a landing of Allied troops on the Italian mainland (the Allies at this point were holding only Sicily and some minor islands).\n\nOn 31 August General Castellano reached Termini Imerese, in Sicily, by plane and was subsequently transferred to Cassibile, a small town in the neighbourhood of Syracuse. It soon became obvious that the two sides in the negotiations had adopted rather distant positions. Castellano pressed the request that the Italian territory be defended from the inevitable reaction of the German Wehrmacht against Italy after the signing. In return, he received only vague promises, which included the launching of a Parachute division over Rome. Moreover, these actions were to be conducted contemporaneously with the signing and not preceding it, as the Italians had wanted.\n\nThe following day Castellano was received by Badoglio and his entourage. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Baron Raffaele Guariglia declared that the Allied conditions were to be accepted. Other generals like Giacomo Carboni maintained however that the Army Corps deployed around Rome was insufficient to protect the city, due to lack of fuel and ammunition, and that the armistice had to be postponed. Badoglio did not pronounce himself in the meeting. In the afternoon he appeared before the King, who decided to accept the armistice conditions.\n\nA confirmation telegram was sent to the Allies. The message, however, was intercepted by the German armed forces, which had long since begun to suspect that Italy was seeking a separate armistice. The Germans contacted Badoglio, who repeatedly confirmed the unwavering loyalty of Italy to its German ally. His reassurances were doubted by the Germans, and the Wehrmacht started to devise an effective plan (Operation Achse) to take control of Italy as soon as the Italian government had switched allegiance to the Allies.\n\nOn 2 September Castellano set off again to Cassibile with an order to confirm the acceptance of the Allied conditions. He had no written authorisation from the head of the Italian Government, Badoglio, who wanted to dissociate himself as much as possible from the forthcoming defeat of his country.\n\nThe signing ceremony began at 14:00 on 3 September. Castellano and Bedell Smith signed the accepted text on behalf of respectively Badoglio and Eisenhower. A bombing mission on Rome by five hundred airplanes was stopped at the last moment: it had been Eisenhower's deterrent to accelerate the procedure of the armistice. Harold Macmillan, the British government's representative minister at the Allied Staff, informed Winston Churchill that the armistice had been signed \"without amendments of any kind\".\n\nOnly after the signing had taken place was Castellano informed of the additional clauses that had been presented by General Campbell to another Italian general, Zanussi, who had also been in Cassibile since 31 August. Zanussi, for unclear reasons, had not informed Castellano about them. Bedell Smith, nevertheless, explained to Castellano that the further conditions were to have taken effect only if Italy had not taken on a fighting role in the war alongside the Allies.\n\nOn the afternoon of the same day, Badoglio had a briefing with the Italian Ministers of Navy, Air Forces and War, and with the King's representatives as well. However, he omitted any mention of the signing of the armistice, referring only to ongoing negotiations.\n\nThe day of entry into force of the armistice was linked to a planned landing in Central Italy and was left to Allied discretion. Castellano still understood the date intended to be 12 September and Badoglio started to move troops to Rome.\n\nOn 7 September, a small Allied delegation reached Rome to inform Badoglio that the next day would have been the day of the armistice. He was also informed about the pending arrival of the U.S. 82nd Airborne Division into airports around the city. Badoglio told this delegation that his army was not ready to support this landing and that most airports in the area were under German control; he asked for a deferral of the armistice of a few days. When General Eisenhower learned of this, the landing in Rome of American troops was cancelled, but the day of the armistice was confirmed since other troops were already en route by sea to land on southern Italy.\n\nWhen the armistice was announced by Allied radio, on the afternoon of 8 September, German forces immediately attacked Italian forces by executing Operation Achse; the majority of the Italian Army had not been informed about the armistice and no clear orders had been issued about the line of conduct to be taken in the face of the German armed forces. Some of the Italian divisions that should have defended Rome were still in transit from the south of France. The King, along with the royal family and Badoglio, fled Rome on the early morning of the 9th, taking shelter in Brindisi, in the south of the country. The initial intention had been to move army headquarters out of Rome together with the King and the prime minister, but few staff officers reached Brindisi. In the meanwhile the Italian troops, without instructions, collapsed and were soon overwhelmed, and some small units decided to stay loyal to the German ally. Between 8 and 12 September, German forces therefore occupied all of the Italian territory still not under Allied control except Sardinia and part of Apulia, without meeting great organized resistance. In Rome, an Italian governor, with the support of an Italian infantry division, nominally ruled the city until 23 September but in practice, the city was under German control from 11 September.\n\nOn 3 September, British and Canadian troops had crossed the Strait of Messina and begun landing in the southernmost tip of Calabria in Operation Baytown. The day after the armistice was made public, 9 September, the Allies made landings at Salerno and at Taranto.\n\nThe Allies failed to take full advantage of the Italian armistice and they were quickly checked by German troops. In terrain that favoured defence, it took 20 months for the Allied forces to reach the northern borders of Italy.\n\nSome of the Italian troops based outside of Italy, in the occupied Balkans and Greek islands, were able to stand some weeks after the armistice but without any determined support by the Allies, they were all overwhelmed by the Germans by the end of September 1943. On the island of Cephalonia, the Italian Acqui Division was massacred after resisting German forces. Only on the islands of Leros and Samos, with British reinforcements, did the resistance last until November 1943, and in Corsica Italian troops forced German troops to leave the island.\n\nIn other cases individual Italian units of various size stayed on the Axis side. Many of these units formed the nucleus of the armed forces of the Italian Social Republic.\n\nWhile Italy's army and air force virtually disintegrated with the announcement of the armistice on 8 September, the Allies coveted the country's navy with 206 ships in total, including the battleships \"Roma\", \"Vittorio Veneto\" and \"Italia\" (known as the \"Littorio\" until July 1943). There was a danger that some of the Italian Navy might fight on, be scuttled or, of more concern for the Allies, end up in German hands. As such, the truce called for Italian warships on Italy's west coast, mostly located at La Spezia and Genoa, to sail for North Africa (passing Corsica and Sardinia); and for those at Taranto, in the heel of Italy, to sail for Malta.\n\nAt 02:30, on 9 September, the three battleships \"Roma\", \"Vittorio Veneto\" and \"Italia\", \"shoved off from La Spezia escorted by three light cruisers and eight destroyers\". When German troops who had stormed into the town to prevent the defection became enraged by these ships' escape, \"they rounded up and summarily shot several Italian captains who, unable to get their vessels under way, had scuttled them\". That afternoon German bombers attacked the ships, sailing without air cover, off Sardinia, launching guided bombs; several ships suffered damage and \"Roma\" sank with the loss of nearly 1,400 men. Most of the remaining ships made it safely to North Africa, \"while three destroyers and a cruiser which had stopped to rescue survivors, docked in Menorca.\" The Italian navy's turnover proceeded more smoothly in other areas of Italy. When an Allied naval force headed for the big naval base of Taranto, they watched a flotilla of Italian ships sailing out of Taranto harbour towards surrender at Malta.\n\nAn agreement between the Allies and the Italians in late September provided for some of the Italian Navy to be kept in commission, but the battleships were to be reduced to care and maintenance, effectively disarmed. Italian mercantile marine vessels were to operate under the same general conditions as those of the Allies. In all cases, the Italian vessels would retain their Italian crews and fly Italian flags.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16102415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16102415", "title": "Arrow information paradox", "text": "Arrow information paradox\n\nThe Arrow information paradox (information paradox for short or AIP), and occasionally referred to as Arrow's disclosure paradox, named after Kenneth Arrow, American economist and joint winner of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics with John Hicks, is a problem that companies face when managing intellectual property across their boundaries. This happens when they seek external technologies for their business or external markets for their own technologies. It has implications for the value of technology and innovations as well as their development by more than one firm and for the need for and limitations of patent protection.\n\nArrow's information paradox theory was set out in a 1962 paper. Cornell Law School professor Oskar Liivak has written in a paper for a conference at Stanford University that Arrow's \"paper has been one of the foundational theoretical pillars of the incentive based theory of patents as Arrow’s work is thought to rule out a strictly market-based solution.\"\n\nA fundamental tenet of the paradox is that the customer, i.e. the potential purchaser of the information describing a technology (or other information having some value, such as facts), wants to know the technology and what it does in sufficient detail as to understand its capabilities or have information about the facts or products to decide whether or not to buy it.\n\nOnce the customer has this detailed knowledge, however, the seller has in effect transferred the technology to the customer without any compensation. This has been argued to show the need for patent protection.\n\nIf the buyer trusts the seller, or is protected via contract, then they only need to know the results that the technology will provide, along with any caveats for its usage in a given context. A problem is that sellers lie, they may be mistaken, one or both sides overlook side consequences for usage in a given context, or some unknown unknown affects the actual outcome.\n\nDiscussions of the value of patent rights have taken Arrow's information paradox into account in their evaluations. The theory has been the basis for many later economic studies. These include theories that pre-patent innovation can be carried out only by a single firm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49626041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49626041", "title": "Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc.", "text": "Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc.\n\nAssociation for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., 569 U.S. 576 (2013), was a case challenging the validity of gene patents in the United States, specifically challenging certain claims in issued patents owned or controlled by Myriad Genetics that cover isolated DNA sequences, methods to diagnose propensity to cancer by looking for mutated DNA sequences, and methods to identify drugs using isolated DNA sequences. Prior to the case, the U.S. Patent Office accepted patents on isolated DNA sequences as a composition of matter. Diagnostic claims were already under question through the \"In re Bilski\" and \"Mayo v. Prometheus\" cases. Drug screening claims were not seriously questioned prior to this case.\n\nThe case was originally heard in Southern District Court of New York, which ruled that all the challenged claims were not patent eligible. Myriad then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The circuit court overturned the previous decision in part, ruling that isolated DNA which does not exist alone in nature \"can\" be patented and that the drug screening claims were valid, and confirmed in part, finding the diagnostic claims unpatentable. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court, which granted \"certiorari\" and remanded the case to the Federal Circuit. The Federal Circuit did not change its opinion, so on September 25, 2012, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Public Patent Foundation filed a petition for \"certiorari\" with the Supreme Court with respect to the Second Federal Circuit decision.\n\nOn November 30, 2012, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the plaintiffs' appeal of the Federal Circuit's ruling. On June 13, 2013, in a unanimous decision, the Supreme Court invalidated Myriad's claims to isolated genes. The Court held that merely isolating genes that are found in nature does not make them patentable.\n\nProponents of the validity of these patents argued that recognizing such patents would encourage investment in biotechnology and promote innovation in genetic research by not keeping technology shrouded in secrecy. Opponents argued that these patents would stifle innovation by preventing others from conducting cancer research, would limit options for cancer patients in seeking genetic testing, and that the patents are not valid because they relate to genetic information that is not inventive, but is rather produced by nature.\n\nThe global search for a genetic basis for breast and ovarian cancer began in earnest in 1988. In 1990, at a meeting of the American Society of Human Genetics, a team of scientists led by Mary-Claire King, from the University of California, Berkeley announced the localization through linkage analysis of a gene associated with increased risk for breast cancer (BRCA1) to the long arm of chromosome 17. It was understood at the time that a test for these mutations would be a clinically important prognostic tool. Myriad Genetics was founded in 1994 as a startup company out of the University of Utah, by scientists involved in the hunt for the BRCA genes. In August 1994, Mark Skolnick, a founder of Myriad and scientist at University of Utah, and researchers at Myriad, along with colleagues at the University of Utah, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and McGill University published the sequence of BRCA1, which they had isolated. In that same year, the first BRCA1 U.S. patent was filed by the University of Utah, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), and Myriad. Over the next year, Myriad, in collaboration with University of Utah, isolated and sequenced the BRCA2 gene, and the first BRCA2 patent was filed in the U.S. by the University of Utah and other institutions in 1995. In 1996, Myriad launched their BRACAnalysis product, which detects certain mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes that put women at high risk for breast cancer and ovarian cancer.\n\nMyriad's business model has been to exclusively offer diagnostic testing services for the BRCA genes. It was on the basis of the premium price that the patents would allow Myriad to set during the 20 year life of the patents, that investors put money into Myriad. These were the funds that allowed Myriad to rapidly sequence the BRCA2 gene and finalize a robust diagnostic test. The business model meant that Myriad would need to enforce its patents against competitors, which included diagnostic labs at universities, which function very much like for-profit businesses in addition to educating pathologists-in-training. The patents were to expire, starting in 2014. In 2012, Myriad—just a startup in 1994—employed about 1200 people, had revenue of around $500 million, and was a publicly traded company.\n\nAbout 2000, isolated human genes had been patented in the United States before this case started. Gene patents have generated a great deal of controversy, especially when their owners or licensees have aggressively enforced them to create exclusivity. Clinical pathologists have been especially concerned with gene patents, as their medical practice of offering clinical diagnostic services is subject to patent law, unlike the practices of other doctors which are exempt from patent law. For example, in 1998, the University of Pennsylvania's Genetic Diagnostic Laboratory received cease and desist letters on the basis of patent infringement from Myriad, which requested clinical pathologists to stop testing patient samples for BRCA. Because of these kinds of legal threats to its members' medical practices, the Association for Molecular Pathology has actively lobbied against the existence of, and exclusive licensing of, gene patents and was the lead plaintiff in this litigation.\n\nAlong with the AMP (Association for Molecular Pathology) and the University of Pennsylvania, other plaintiffs in the suit included researchers at Columbia, NYU, Emory, and Yale, several patient advocacy groups, and several individual patients.\n\nThe defendants in the suit were originally Myriad, the trustees of the University of Utah, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), but the USPTO was severed from the case by the district court.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Public Patent Foundation represented the plaintiffs, with attorney Chris Hansen arguing the case. The law firm of Jones Day represented Myriad.\n\nThe complaint challenged specific claims on isolated genes, diagnostic methods, and methods to identify drug candidates, in seven of Myriad's 23 patents on BRCA1 and BRCA2.\n\nThe specific claims that were challenged were:\n\nThe plaintiffs wanted these claims declared invalid, arguing that they are not patentable subject matter under §101 of Title 35 of the United States Code—that the isolated genes are unpatentable products of nature, that the diagnostic method claims are mere thought processes that do not yield any real world transformations, and that the drug screening claims were merely describing the basic processes of doing science. This part of U.S. law describes what is patent-eligible: \"any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof\". If the invention falls under one of several excluding categories, however, including a \"naturally occurring article\" (a defined term in the law), then it is not patent eligible.\n\nThe Plaintiffs argued that Myriad's use of these patents—and the patents' very existence—restricted research for clinicians and limited scientific progress. They further argued that from a patient's perspective, Myriad's use of the patents not only made it impossible to obtain a second opinion on a patient's genetic predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer, but also kept the cost of BRCA1/2 testing high by preventing competition.\n\nMyriad defended their patents, arguing that the USPTO issues patents for genes as \"isolated sequences\" in the same way it issues patents for any other chemical compound, since the isolation of the DNA sequence renders it different in character from that present in the human body. Myriad argued that their diagnostic tests were patentable subject matter.\n\nOn March 29, 2010, Judge Robert W. Sweet of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York declared all of the contested claims invalid.\n\nWith respect to claims to isolated DNA sequences, Judge Sweet's 152 page decision stated: \"DNA's existence in an 'isolated' form alters neither this fundamental quality of DNA as it exists in the body nor the information it encodes. Therefore, the patents at issue directed to 'isolated DNA' containing sequences found in nature are unsustainable as a matter of law and are deemed unpatentable under 35 U.S.C. §101.\" The decision also found that comparisons of DNA sequences involved in these patents are abstract mental processes under the recent \"In re Bilski\" decision, therefore also not patent eligible, and that the drug screening claims were unpatentable as they merely cover a \"basic scientific principle\".\n\nOn June 16, 2010, Myriad filed its Notice of Appeal.\n\nMyriad's appeal was granted, and the case was heard in United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Myriad, the defendant-appellant, was supported by at least 15 amicus briefs and the plaintiff-appellees' position received support from 12 amicus briefs. The Department of Justice provided a surprising and unsolicited brief that in part supported the appellees but also suggested that claims covering isolated naturally occurring human genetic sequences are not properly patentable. Oral arguments were held on April 4, 2011.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, the Federal Circuit overturned the district court's decision in part (reversing that an isolated DNA sequence is patent-ineligible, and the district court's decision that methods for screening cancer therapeutics is patent-ineligible) and affirmed its ruling in part (agreeing that the district court's decision that Myriad's claims for comparing DNA sequences are patent-ineligible). Judge Alan Lourie, who wrote the majority ruling, reasoned that isolated DNA is chemically distinct from the natural state of a gene in the body. Judge Lourie cited the Supreme Court case \"Diamond v. Chakrabarty\", which used the test of whether a genetically modified organism was \"markedly different\" from those found in nature to rule that genetically modified organisms are patent eligible. Thus, he concluded that since Myriad's patents describe DNA sequences that do not alone exist in nature, they are patent eligible.\n\nAfter the Federal Circuit ruling, the Association for Molecular Pathology petitioned for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court, asking it to review this case. The Supreme Court granted the writ, and on March 26, 2012, it vacated the Federal Circuit decision, and remanded the case back to the Federal Circuit. In other words, the Supreme court revoked the original ruling of the Federal Circuit, and asked the lower court to re-hear the entire case again. These Supreme Court actions were made in light of its recent decision in \"Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc.\", where the Court ruled that certain kinds of claims in medical diagnostics patents, including natural phenomena, were not patentable. The Supreme Court expected the Federal Circuit to take this precedent into account in its new ruling.\n\nOn August 16, 2012, the Federal Circuit held its ground, ruling again in a 2–1 decision in favor of Myriad. The new court opinion was nearly identical to the original. The Federal Circuit again reversed the district court's decision on isolated DNA molecules; the Federal Circuit found that such molecules are patent-eligible under § 101 because they are nonnaturally occurring compositions of matter. It also reversed the district court's decision concerning assays to find drugs to treat cancer; the Federal Circuit again found that these assays are patentable. And again—now reinforced by the \"Mayo\" decision—the Federal Circuit affirmed the lower court's decision, that method claims directed to \"comparing\" or \"analyzing\" DNA sequences are patent ineligible. Such claims were held to include no transformative steps and therefore to cover only patent-ineligible abstract, mental steps.\n\nWith respect to the patentability of isolated genes, the majority opinion stated that the \"Mayo\" precedent was not particularly relevant to this case, because it did not deal with the patent eligibility of gene patents. Judge Lourie stated: \"The remand of this case for reconsideration in light of Mayo might suggest, as Plaintiffs and certain amici state, that the composition claims are mere reflections of a law of nature. Respectfully, they are not, any more than any product of man reflects and is consistent with a law of nature.\"\n\nJudge William Bryson wrote a dissent with respect to the non-patentability of isolated DNA sequences, applying the reasoning of the Supreme Court in the \"Mayo\" case, with respect to methods involving \"natural laws\", to products of nature:In Mayo, which involved method claims…the [Supreme] Court found that the method was not directed to patent-eligible subject matter because it contributed nothing \"inventive\" to the law of nature that lay at the heart of the claimed invention…In concluding that the claims did not add \"enough\" to the natural laws, the Court was particularly persuaded by the fact that \"the steps of the claimed processes…involve well-understood, routine, conventional activity previously engaged in by researchers in the field.\"Just as a patent involving a law of nature must have an \"inventive concept\" that does \"significantly more than simply describe…natural relations,\"… a patent involving a product of nature should have an inventive concept that involves more than merely incidental changes to the naturally occurring product. In cases such as this one, in which the applicant claims a composition of matter that is nearly identical to a product of nature, it is appropriate to ask whether the applicant has done \"enough\" to distinguish his alleged invention from the similar product of nature. Has the applicant made an \"inventive\" contribution to the product of nature? Does the claimed composition involve more than \"well-understood, routine, conventional\" elements? Here, the answer to those questions is no.Neither isolation of the naturally occurring material nor the resulting breaking of covalent bonds makes the claimed molecules patentable….The functional portion of the composition—the nucleotide sequence—remains identical to that of the naturally occurring gene.\n\nOn September 25, 2012, the American Civil Liberties Union and the Public Patent Foundation filed another petition for certiorari with the Supreme Court with respect to the second Federal Circuit Decision. On November 30, 2012, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the plaintiffs' appeal of the Federal Circuit's ruling.\n\nOral arguments were heard before the Supreme Court on April 15, 2013.\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas, on June 13, 2013, delivered the opinion of the Court, in which all other members of the Supreme Court joined, except Justice Antonin Scalia, who concurred in part and concurred in the judgment. The majority opinion delivered by Thomas held, \"A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature and not patent eligible merely because it has been isolated, but cDNA is patent eligible because it is not naturally occurring.\" In Part III of the majority opinion, Thomas wrote:It is important to note what is \"not\" implicated by this decision. First, there are no method claims before this Court. Had Myriad created an innovative method of manipulating genes while searching for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, it could possibly have sought a method patent. But the processes used by Myriad to isolate DNA at the time of Myriad's patents \"were well understood, widely used, and fairly uniform insofar as any scientist engaged in the search for a gene would likely have utilized a similar approach,\" 702 F. Supp. 2d, at 202–203, and are not at issue in this case.Similarly, this case does not involve patents on new \"applications\" of knowledge about the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Judge Bryson aptly noted that, \"[a]s the first party with knowledge of the [BRCA1 and BRCA2] sequences, Myriad was in an excellent position to claim applications of that knowledge. Many of its unchallenged claims are limited to such applications.\" 689 F. 3d, at 1349.Nor do we consider the patentability of DNA in which the order of the naturally occurring nucleotides has been altered. Scientific alteration of the genetic code presents a different inquiry, and we express no opinion about the application of §101 to such endeavors. We merely hold that genes and the information they encode are not patent eligible under §101 simply because they have been isolated from the surrounding genetic material.In his concurring opinion, which relates to the scientific details in the majority opinion, Scalia wrote:I join the judgment of the Court, and all of its opinion except Part I–A and some portions of the rest of the opinion going into fine details of molecular biology. I am unable to affirm those details on my own knowledge or even my own belief. It suffices for me to affirm, having studied the opinions below and the expert briefs presented here, that the portion of DNA isolated from its natural state sought to be patented is identical to that portion of the DNA in its natural state; and that complementary DNA (cDNA) is a synthetic creation not normally present in nature.\n\n\"Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics\" was a landmark case on the practice of gene patenting. The District Court's decision was received as an unexpected ruling, because it contradicted the generally accepted practice of gene patents. The Federal Circuit's decision was a return to the status quo, in which the U.S. Patent Office issues patents for isolated gene sequences. However, it still ignited much controversy and interest from the public. The plaintiff's argument that DNA should be excluded from patent eligibility was widely echoed in popular media. Jim Dwyer, a reporter for \"The New York Times\", wrote: \"But for many people, it is impossible to understand how genes—the traits we inherit from our parents and pass along to our children—could become a company's intellectual property.\" James Watson, one of the discoverers of the structure of DNA, agreed and submitted a brief in the case. He argued that DNA conveys special genetic information, that human genetic information should not be the private property of anyone, and that developing a patent thicket of gene sequences could prevent easy commercialization of genetic diagnostics.\n\nIn terms of the emotional impact of this case as it was portrayed in the media—the exclusive offering of a diagnostic test and the high price of the test—the real legal force on that issue arose from the outcome of other cases, \"In re Bilski\" and \"Mayo v. Prometheus.\" These cases rendered most diagnostic claims unpatentable, making it difficult for Myriad's business model (as described above in the Background section) to work going forward—difficult for R&D driven business and investors and thus potentially bad for patients as there may be fewer diagnostic tests brought to market, but also potentially better for patients in that prices for tests may be lower and it will be easier to have a test re-done by an alternate lab.\n\nThe same issue, namely the patentability of the DNA sequence in the BRCA1 gene, was considered in a February 2013 case in the Federal Court of Australia where the validity of Myriad's patent was upheld. This was also a landmark ruling, and an appeal to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia was to be heard in August 2013. The submissions for that appeal were due on June 14, 2013, the day after the U.S. Supreme Court ruling was published, and the appellants in the Australian case stated that the U.S. ruling was referenced within their submission. In a unanimous decision in October 2015, the High Court of Australia, Australia's final court of appeal, concluded that an isolated nucleic acid, coding for a BRCA1 protein, with specific variations from the norm that are indicative of susceptibility to breast cancer and ovarian cancer was not a \"patentable invention\".\n\n"}
{"id": "856726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856726", "title": "Cass Sunstein", "text": "Cass Sunstein\n\nCass Robert Sunstein FBA (born September 21, 1954) is an American legal scholar, particularly in the fields of constitutional law, administrative law, environmental law, and law and behavioral economics, who was the Administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Obama administration from 2009 to 2012. For 27 years, Sunstein taught at the University of Chicago Law School. Sunstein is the Robert Walmsley University Professor at Harvard Law School. He is Honorary Doctor at Copenhagen Business School.\n\nStudies of legal publications between 2009 and 2013 found Sunstein to be the most frequently cited American legal scholar by a wide margin, followed by Erwin Chemerinsky and Richard A. Epstein.\n\nSunstein was born on September 21, 1954 in Waban, Massachusetts to Marian (née Goodrich), a teacher, and Cass Richard Sunstein, a builder, both Jewish. He graduated in 1972 from Middlesex School and in 1975 with a B.A. from Harvard College, where he was a member of the varsity squash team and the \"Harvard Lampoon\". In 1978, Sunstein received a J.D. \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard Law School, where he was executive editor of the \"Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review\" and part of a winning team of the Ames Moot Court Competition. He served as a law clerk first for Justice Benjamin Kaplan of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court (1978–1979) and later for Justice Thurgood Marshall of the United States Supreme Court (1979–1980).\n\nSunstein joined the Office of Legal Counsel in the Justice Department as an attorney-advisor (1980–1981) and then took a job as an assistant professor of law at the University of Chicago Law School (1981–1983), where he also became an assistant professor in the Department of Political Science (1983–1985). In 1985, Sunstein was made a full professor of both political science and law; in 1988, he was named the Karl N. Llewellyn Professor of Jurisprudence in the Law School and Department of Political Science. The university honored him in 1993 with its \"distinguished service\" accolade, permanently changing his title to Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor of Jurisprudence in the Law School and Department of Political Science.\n\nSunstein was the Samuel Rubin Visiting Professor of Law at Columbia Law School in the fall of 1986 and a visiting professor at Harvard Law School in the spring 1987, winter 2005, and spring 2007 terms. He teaches courses in constitutional law, administrative law, and environmental law, as well as the required first-year course \"Elements of the Law\", which is an introduction to legal reasoning, legal theory, and the interdisciplinary study of law, including law and economics. In the fall of 2008, he joined the faculty of Harvard Law School and began serving as the director of its Program on Risk Regulation:\n\nThe Program on Risk Regulation will focus on how law and policy deal with the central hazards of the 21st century. Anticipated areas of study include terrorism, climate change, occupational safety, infectious diseases, natural disasters, and other low-probability, high-consequence events. Sunstein plans to rely on significant student involvement in the work of this new program.\n\nOn January 7, 2009, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that Sunstein would be named to head the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA). That news generated controversy among progressive legal scholars and environmentalists. Sunstein's confirmation was long blocked because of controversy over allegations about his political and academic views. On September 9, 2009, the Senate voted for cloture on Sunstein's nomination as Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. The motion passed in a 63–35 vote. The Senate confirmed Sunstein on September 10, 2009 in a 57–40 vote.\n\nIn his research on risk regulation, Sunstein is known for developing, together with Timur Kuran, the concept of availability cascades, wherein popular discussion of an idea is self-feeding and causes individuals to over weigh its importance.\n\nSunstein's books include \"After the Rights Revolution\" (1990), \"The Partial Constitution\" (1993), \"Democracy and the Problem of Free Speech\" (1993), \"Legal Reasoning and Political Conflict\" (1996), \"Free Markets and Social Justice\" (1997), \"One Case at a Time\" (1999), \"Risk and Reason\" (2002), \"Why Societies Need Dissent\" (2003), \"Laws of Fear: Beyond the Precautionary Principle\" (2005), \"Radicals in Robes: Why Extreme Right-Wing Courts Are Wrong for America\" (2005), \"Are Judges Political? An Empirical Analysis of the Federal Judiciary\" (2005), \"Infotopia: How Many Minds Produce Knowledge\" (2006), and, co-authored with Richard Thaler, \"Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness\" (2008).\n\nSunstein's 2006 book, \"Infotopia: How Many Minds Produce Knowledge\", explores methods for aggregating information; it contains discussions of prediction markets, open-source software, and wikis. Sunstein's 2004 book, \"The Second Bill of Rights: FDR's Unfinished Revolution and Why We Need It More than Ever\", advocates the Second Bill of Rights proposed by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Among these rights are a right to an education, a right to a home, a right to health care, and a right to protection against monopolies; Sunstein argues that the Second Bill of Rights has had a large international impact and should be revived in the United States. His 2001 book, \"Republic.com\", argued that the Internet may weaken democracy because it allows citizens to isolate themselves within groups that share their own views and experiences, and thus cut themselves off from any information that might challenge their beliefs, a phenomenon known as cyberbalkanization. He recanted many of the views expressed in the book before his confirmation as administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in order to receive Senate confirmation. Asked by Rudy Takala if Sunstein's views nonetheless persisted in the Obama administration, U.S. Federal Communications Commission Commissioner Michael O'Rielly eluded the question, answering, \"Everybody needs a nudge, right?\" \n\nSunstein co-authored \"Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness\" (Yale University Press, 2008) with economist Richard Thaler of the University of Chicago. \"Nudge\" discusses how public and private organizations can help people make better choices in their daily lives. Thaler and Sunstein argue that\n\nPeople often make poor choices – and look back at them with bafflement! We do this because as human beings, we all are susceptible to a wide array of routine biases that can lead to an equally wide array of embarrassing blunders in education, personal finance, health care, mortgages and credit cards, happiness, and even the planet itself.\n\nThe ideas in the book proved popular with politicians such as U.S. President Barack Obama, British Prime Minister David Cameron, and the British Conservative Party in general. The \"Nudge\" idea has also been criticised. Dr Tammy Boyce, from public health foundation The King's Fund, has said:\nWe need to move away from short-term, politically motivated initiatives such as the 'nudging people' idea, which are not based on any good evidence and don't help people make long-term behavior changes.\n\nSunstein is a contributing editor to \"The New Republic\" and \"The American Prospect\" and is a frequent witness before congressional committees. He played an active role in opposing the impeachment of Bill Clinton in 1998.\n\nIn recent years, Sunstein has been a guest writer on \"The Volokh Conspiracy\" blog as well as the blogs of law professors Lawrence Lessig (Harvard) and Jack Balkin (Yale). He is considered so prolific a writer that in 2007, an article in the legal publication \"The Green Bag\" coined the concept of a \"Sunstein number\" reflecting degrees of separation between various legal authors and Sunstein, paralleling the Erdős numbers sometimes assigned to mathematician authors.\n\nHe is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (elected 1992) and the American Law Institute (since 1990).\n\nSunstein is a proponent of judicial minimalism, arguing that judges should focus primarily on deciding the case at hand, and avoid making sweeping changes to the law or decisions that have broad-reaching effects. Some view him as liberal, despite Sunstein's public support for George W. Bush's judicial nominees Michael W. McConnell and John G. Roberts, as well as providing strongly maintained theoretical support for the death penalty.\nMuch of his work also brings behavioral economics to bear on law, suggesting that the \"rational actor\" model will sometimes produce an inadequate understanding of how people will respond to legal intervention.\n\nSunstein has collaborated with academics who have training in behavioral economics, most notably Daniel Kahneman, Richard Thaler, and Christine M. Jolls, to show how the theoretical assumptions of law and economics should be modified by new empirical findings about how people actually behave. \n\nAccording to Sunstein, the interpretation of federal law should be made not by judges but by the beliefs and commitments of the U.S. president and those around him.\n\"There is no reason to believe that in the face of statutory ambiguity, the meaning of federal law should be settled by the inclinations and predispositions of federal judges. The outcome should instead depend on the commitments and beliefs of the President and those who operate under him,\" argued Sunstein.\n\nSunstein (along with his coauthor Richard Thaler) has elaborated the theory of libertarian paternalism. In arguing for this theory, he counsels thinkers/academics/politicians to embrace the findings of behavioral economics as applied to law, maintaining freedom of choice while also steering people's decisions in directions that will make their lives go better. With Thaler, he coined the term \"choice architect.\"\n\nIn 2002, at the height of controversy over Bush's creation of military commissions without Congressional approval, Sunstein stepped forward to insist, \"Under existing law, President George W. Bush has the legal authority to use military commissions\" and that \"President Bush's choice stands on firm legal ground.\" Sunstein scorned as \"ludicrous\" an argument from law professor George P. Fletcher, who believed that the Supreme Court would find Bush's military commissions without any legal basis. But the Supreme Court did indeed find the tribunals illegal in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" in 2006.\n\nIn his book \"Democracy and the Problem of Free Speech\" Sunstein says there is a need to reformulate First Amendment law. He thinks that the current formulation, based on Justice Holmes' conception of free speech as a marketplace \"disserves the aspirations of those who wrote America's founding document.\" The purpose of this reformulation would be to \"reinvigorate processes of democratic deliberation, by ensuring greater attention to public issues and greater diversity of views.\" He is concerned by the present \"situation in which like-minded people speak or listen mostly to one another,\" and thinks that in \"light of astonishing economic and technological changes, we must doubt whether, as interpreted, the constitutional guarantee of free speech is adequately serving democratic goals.\" He proposes a \"New Deal for speech [that] would draw on Justice Brandeis' insistence on the role of free speech in promoting political deliberation and citizenship.\"\n\nSome of Sunstein's work has addressed the question of animal rights, as he co-authored a book dealing with the subject, has written papers on it, and was an invited speaker at \"Facing Animals,\" an event at Harvard University described as \"a groundbreaking panel on animals in ethics and the law.\" \"Every reasonable person believes in animal rights,\" he says, continuing that \"we might conclude that certain practices cannot be defended and should not be allowed to continue, if, in practice, mere regulation will inevitably be insufficient – and if, in practice, mere regulation will ensure that the level of animal suffering will remain very high.\"\n\nSunstein's views on animal rights generated controversy when Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) blocked his appointment to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs by Obama. Chambliss objected to the introduction of \"Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions\", a volume edited by Sunstein and his then-companion Martha Nussbaum. On page 11 of the introduction, during a philosophical discussion about whether animals should be thought of as owned by humans, Sunstein notes that personhood need not be conferred upon an animal in order to grant it various legal protections against abuse or cruelty, even including legal standing for suit. For example, under current law, if someone saw their neighbor beating a dog, they cannot sue for animal cruelty because they do not have legal standing to do so. Sunstein suggests that granting standing to animals, actionable by other parties, could decrease animal cruelty by increasing the likelihood that animal abuse will be punished.\n\nSunstein has argued, \"We should celebrate tax day.\" Sunstein argues that since government (in the form of police, fire departments, insured banks, and courts) protects and preserves property and liberty, individuals should happily finance it with their tax dollars:\nIn what sense is the money in our pockets and bank accounts fully 'ours'? Did we earn it by our own autonomous efforts? Could we have inherited it without the assistance of probate courts? Do we save it without the support of bank regulators? Could we spend it if there were no public officials to coordinate the efforts and pool the resources of the community in which we live? Without taxes, there would be no liberty. Without taxes there would be no property. Without taxes, few of us would have any assets worth defending. [It is] a dim fiction that some people enjoy and exercise their rights without placing any burden whatsoever on the public… There is no liberty without dependency.\nSunstein goes on to say:\nIf government could not intervene effectively, none of the individual rights to which Americans have become accustomed could be reliably protected. [...] This is why the overused distinction between \"negative\" and \"positive\" rights makes little sense. Rights to private property, freedom of speech, immunity from police abuse, contractual liberty and free exercise of religion – just as much as rights to Social Security, Medicare and food stamps – are taxpayer-funded and government-managed social services designed to improve collective and individual well-being.\n\nIn \"Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness\", Sunstein proposes that government recognition of marriage be discontinued. \"Under our proposal, the word marriage would no longer appear in any laws, and marriage licenses would no longer be offered or recognized by any level of government,\" argues Sunstein. He continues, \"the only legal status states would confer on couples would be a civil union, which would be a domestic partnership agreement between any two people.\" He goes on further, \"Governments would not be asked to endorse any particular relationships by conferring on them the term marriage,\" and refers to state-recognized marriage as an \"official license scheme.\"\nSunstein addressed the Senate on 11 July 1996 advising against the Defense of Marriage Act.\n\nSunstein co-authored a 2008 paper with Adrian Vermeule, titled \"Conspiracy Theories,\" dealing with the risks and possible government responses to conspiracy theories resulting from \"cascades\" of faulty information within groups that may ultimately lead to violence. In this article they wrote, \"The existence of both domestic and foreign conspiracy theories, we suggest, is no trivial matter, posing real risks to the government's antiterrorism policies, whatever the latter may be.\" They go on to propose that, \"the best response consists in cognitive infiltration of extremist groups\", where they suggest, among other tactics, \"Government agents (and their allies) might enter chat rooms, online social networks, or even real-space groups and attempt to undermine percolating conspiracy theories by raising doubts about their factual premises, causal logic or implications for political action.\" They refer, several times, to groups that promote the view that the US Government was responsible or complicit in the September 11 attacks as \"extremist groups.\"\n\nThe authors declare that there are five hypothetical responses a government can take toward conspiracy theories: \"We can readily imagine a series of possible responses. (1) Government might ban conspiracy theorizing. (2) Government might impose some kind of tax, financial or otherwise, on those who disseminate such theories. (3) Government might itself engage in counterspeech, marshaling arguments to discredit conspiracy theories. (4) Government might formally hire credible private parties to engage in counterspeech. (5) Government might engage in informal communication with such parties, encouraging them to help.\" However, the authors advocate that each \"instrument has a distinctive set of potential effects, or costs and benefits, and each will have a place under imaginable conditions. However, our main policy idea is that government should engage in cognitive infiltration of the groups that produce conspiracy theories, which involves a mix of (3), (4) and (5).\"\n\nSunstein and Vermeule also analyze the practice of recruiting \"nongovernmental officials\"; they suggest that \"government can supply these independent experts with information and perhaps prod them into action from behind the scenes,\" further warning that \"too close a connection will be self-defeating if it is exposed.\" Sunstein and Vermeule argue that the practice of enlisting non-government officials, \"might ensure that credible independent experts offer the rebuttal, rather than government officials themselves. There is a tradeoff between credibility and control, however. The price of credibility is that government cannot be seen to control the independent experts.\" This position has been criticized by some commentators who argue that it would violate prohibitions on government propaganda aimed at domestic citizens. Sunstein and Vermeule's proposed infiltrations have also been met by sharply critical scholarly critiques.\n\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, Sunstein was married to Lisa Ruddick, whom he met when both were undergraduates at Harvard. She is Associate Professor of English at the University of Chicago, specializing in British modernism. Their marriage ended in divorce. Thereafter, Sunstein lived with Martha Nussbaum for almost a decade. Nussbaum is a philosopher, classicist, and professor of law at the University of Chicago.\n\nOn July 4, 2008, Sunstein married Samantha Power, professor of public policy at Harvard, and former United States Ambassador to the United Nations, whom he met when they both worked as campaign advisors to Barack Obama. The wedding took place in the Church of Mary Immaculate, in Loher Ireland. They have two children: a son, Declan Power Sunstein (April 24, 2009). and a daughter, Rían Power Sunstein (June 1, 2012).\n\nSunstein is an avid squash player who has played professionally and in 2017 was ranked 449th in the world by the Professional Squash Association.\n\nIn July 2017, Sunstein was elected a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\nIn 2018 he was awarded the Holberg Prize for having \"reshaped our understanding of the relationship between the modern regulatory state and constitutional law. He is widely regarded as the leading scholar of administrative law in the U.S., and he is by far the most cited legal scholar in the United States and probably the world.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35735789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35735789", "title": "Chase Manhattan Bank NA v Israel-British Bank (London) Ltd", "text": "Chase Manhattan Bank NA v Israel-British Bank (London) Ltd\n\nChase Manhattan Bank NA v Israel-British Bank (London) Ltd [1981] Ch 105 is an English trusts law case, concerning constructive trusts. It held that a trust arose to protect a payment made under a mistake, with the benefit of a proprietary remedy. This is seen important for the question of what response, personal or proprietary, may come from a claim in unjust enrichment.\n\nThe decision in the case has been subjected to \"sustained, authoritative criticism\", both academically and judicially.\n\nChase Manhattan was instructed to pay $2m to the Israel-British Bank, but it paid the sum twice by mistake. The Israel-British Bank subsequently became insolvent and entered into liquidation after Yehoshua Ben-Zion, the managing director, was convicted of embezzling £20 million ($39.4 million) from the bank. Chase Manhattan wished to claim back the money which it had mistakenly paid. However, because the Israel-British Bank was now insolvent, rather than make a claim for a dividend in the liquidation, where it would have to compete with all of the other creditors of the insolvent bank, Chase Manhattan sought to argue that the entire sums were held on trust and so should be returned as part of a proprietary claim to the money. \n\nThe Israel-British bank had known about the mistake on the part of Chase Manhattan before it went into liquidation.\n\nGoulding J held that Chase Manhattan could recover the full sum, because the money was held on trust from the moment it was received. He said the following.\n\nThe decision has been subject to \"sustained, authoritative criticism.\"\n\nThe case was reviewed in \"Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale v Islington LBC\" by Lord Browne-Wilkinson, and expressed doubts as to the reasoning. He stated \"I cannot agree with this reasoning. First, it is based on a concept of retaining an equitable property in money where, prior to payment to the recipient bank, there was no existing equitable interest. Further, I cannot understand how the recipient's conscience can be affected at a time when he is not aware of any mistake.\" This view, expressed by way of \"obiter dictum\", was particularly criticised by Peter Birks on the ground that the more straightforward way to establish a claim would be for unjust enrichment, should trigger a proprietary remedy in a similar circumstance, regardless of the position of one's notional conscience.\n\nLord Millett, writing extrajudicially, has also criticised the decision, stating \"It is easy to agree with Lord Browne-Wilkinson that [\"Chase Manhattan v Israel-British Bank\"] was wrongy decided, but it was wrongly decided not because [the transferee] had no notice of the [transferor's] claim ... but because the [claimant] had no proprietary interest for it to have notice of.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "307830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307830", "title": "Competitive local exchange carrier", "text": "Competitive local exchange carrier\n\nA competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC), in the United States and Canada, is a telecommunications provider company (sometimes called a \"carrier\") competing with other, already established carriers (generally the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC)).\n\nLocal exchange carriers (LECs) are divided into incumbent (ILECs) and competitive (CLECs). The ILECs are usually the original, monopoly LEC in a given area, and receive different regulatory treatment from the newer CLECs. A data local exchange carrier (DLEC) is a CLEC specializing in DSL services by leasing lines from the ILEC and reselling them to Internet service providers (ISPs).\n\nCLECs evolved from the competitive access providers (CAPs) that began to offer private line and special access services in competition with the ILECs beginning in 1985. The CAPs (such as Teleport Communications Group (TCG) and Metropolitan Fiber Systems (MFS)) deployed fiber optic systems in the central business districts of the largest U.S. cities (New York, Chicago, Boston, etc.) A number of state public utilities commissions, particularly New York, Illinois, and Massachusetts, encouraged this competition. By the early 1990s, the CAPs began to install switches in their fiber systems. Initially, they offered a \"shared PBX\" service with these switches and interconnected with the ILECs as end users rather than as co-carriers. However, the New York Public Service Commission authorized the nation's first CLEC when it required the New York Telephone (the ILEC) to allow Teleport Communications Group's switches in New York City to connect as peers. Other states followed New York's lead so that by the mid-1990s most of the large states had authorized local exchange competition.\n\nThe Telecommunications Act of 1996 incorporated the successful results of the state-by-state authorization process by creating a uniform national law to allow local exchange competition. This had the unintended consequence of stimulating the formation of many more CLECs than the markets could bear. The formation of these CLECs, with easy financing from equipment vendors and IPOs, was a significant contributor to the \"telecom bubble\" of the late 1990s which then turned into the \"bust\" of 2001–2002.\n\nThe original CAP/CLECs spent the decade from 1985-1995 deploying their own fiber optics networks and digital switches so that their only reliance on the ILEC was leasing some DS-1 loops to locations not served by the CLEC's own fiber and interconnecting the CLEC's switches with the ILECs' on a peer-to-peer basis. While not trivial dependencies, the original \"facilities-based\" CLECs such as TCG and MFS were beginning to become profitable by the time the Telecom Act was adopted. In contrast, many CLECs formed in the post-Telecom Act \"bubble\" operated using the unbundled Network Element Platform (UNE-P), in which they resold the ILECs' service by leasing the underlying copper and port space on the ILEC's local switch. This greater dependency on the ILECs made these \"UNE-P CLECs\" vulnerable to changes in the UNE-P rules.\n\nIn the meantime, the largest facilities-based CLECs, MFS, and TCG, had IPOs and then were acquired by WorldCom and AT&T, respectively, in 1996 and 1998 as those long distance companies prepared to defend their business customers from the Regional Bell Operating Companies' (RBOC) incipient entry into the long distance business.\n\nWith the Triennial Review in August 2003, the FCC began to rewrite a large portion of the rules implemented by the Telecommunications Act of 1996. One alternative to the UNE-P is unbundled network element loop (UNE-L), in which the CLEC has access to or operates their own local switch. The underlying copper (loop) that runs to the subscriber's premises is then leased by the CLEC, and cross-connected to the CLEC's switch. Both UNE-P and UNE-L have their own unique advantages and disadvantages. Other CLECs bypass the ILEC's network entirely, using their own facilities. These facility-based LECs include cable companies offering phone service over coaxial cable.\n\nNon facilities-based CLECs that operate under the UNE-P rules are able to resell wholesale services purchased from multiple ILECs, thereby establishing broader geographical coverage than ILECs or facilities-based CLECs.\n\nIn October 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court allowed a lower court's ruling to stand (by refusing to hear the appeal) that voided rules requiring ILECs to lease certain network elements (such as local switching or the high-frequency portion of the loop) at a cost-based regulated wholesale price to CLECs. The FCC agreed earlier in the year to rewrite rather than appeal the validity of the rules. In December 2004, the FCC released another set of rules which phase out, over a year, all CLEC leasing of ILEC local switching, while preserving access to most copper local loops and some interoffice facilities.\n\nIn May 2018, USTelecom, the Washington trade group for the major telecommunication companies, filed a petition with the FCC, asking it to end the leasing rule within 2 1/2 years, which would terminate the CLEC operations of smaller telecommunications companies.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2011 there was a wave consolidation of CLECs, reducing the total number of companies by almost half. The remaining facilities-based CLECs today continue to invest in their own fiber facilities, data centers, and other products that do not require ILEC involvement. The prominent CLECs in business today include: 123Net, Bandwidth.com, Crexendo, mitel, TPx Communications, Birch Communications, Integra Telecom, Airespring, BullsEye Telecom, Broadview Networks, ACD.net, NuWave Communications, Earthlink Business, CallFire, Sonic, and hundreds of more according to the FCC Form 499 Filer database. \n\nCLECs in Canada include: Radiant Communications, Broad-Connect Telecom, Vmedia, Comwave, Distributel, Iristel, Fibernetics, ISP Telecom, IXICA Communications Inc, Primus Canada, SSI Micro, TekSavvy, TNW, YourLink, and Switch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40488606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40488606", "title": "Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance", "text": "Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance\n\nThe Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance is a 1956 United Nations treaty which allows individuals to enforce judicial decisions regarding child support and alimony extraterritorially. It can be used only if the person seeking maintenance and the person paying maintenance are both resident in states that have ratified the Convention.\n\nThe Convention was concluded on 20 June 1956 at the United Nations Conference on Maintenance Obligations, held at UN headquarters in New York from 29 May to 20 June. It was signed by 24 and entered into force on 25 May 1957. As of 2015, there are 64 states that have ratified the Convention, which includes 63 United Nations member states plus the Holy See.\n\nThe principles contained in the Convention were updated in 2007 with the conclusion of the Hague Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance.\n\n"}
{"id": "48072163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48072163", "title": "Enterprise Value Tax", "text": "Enterprise Value Tax\n\nEnterprise Value Tax was a tax proposal considered by the United States Congress. It passed in the US House of Representatives in 2010 as part of \"H.R. 4213: American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act\". The bill was not passed by the Senate, and hence did not become law. Nonetheless the concept of the tax has recurred in succeeding years, most recently as a speculation over Donald Trump's promise to do \"something huge\".\n\nThe tax was opposed as detrimental to entrepreneurs re-investing funds from the sale of businesses. It was described by Richard A. Baker, CEO of the Hudson's Bay Company, as \"a stealth attack on capital gains\". Conversely the \"carried interest tax loophole\" was cited as reason to increase taxes on those doing well from the taxation of certain businesses, notably hedge fund managers.\n\nEnterprise value, in this context, has been described as another expression for goodwill.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "10946252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10946252", "title": "Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974", "text": "Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974\n\nThe Equal Educational Opportunities Act (EEOA) of 1974 is a federal law of the United States of America. It prohibits discrimination against faculty, staff, and students, including racial segregation of students, and requires school districts to take action to overcome barriers to students' equal participation. It is one of a number of laws affecting educational institutions including the Rehabilitation Act (1973), Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).\n\nThe civil rights movement brought about controversies on busing, language rights, desegregation, and the idea of “equal education\". The groundwork for the creation of the Equal Educational Opportunities Act first came about with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which banned discrimination and racial segregation against African Americans and women. In 1968 the U.S. Department of Education, formerly the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, issued a statement saying that school officials are responsible for providing equal educational opportunities for all, regardless of one’s nationality, race, or color. A 1970 memorandum was then passed, clarifying the responsibilities of school officials. In addition to requiring separate classes to be created for students less than proficient in the English language, communication between students’ parents and the school was to be required to be conducted in a language understood by the parents.\n\nOn March 6, 1972, President Richard Nixon clarified the definition of “equal educational opportunity” and also called for the judiciary to create a more uniform set of standards off which to judge future cases related with educational opportunity, prioritize equal education, and create alternatives to busing. He set forth two specific proposals on this day: one to effectively eliminate busing entitled \"The Student Transportation Moratorium Act\" and another entitled the Equal Educational Opportunities Act.\n\nAlthough the Equal Educational Opportunities Act was not passed at that time, Nixon declared that “[t]his act would require that every State or locality grant equal educational opportunity to every person, regardless of race, color, or national origin”. In the 1974 \"Lau v. Nichols\", students unable to speak English fluently were denied additional education, resulting in renewed interest in Nixon’s 1972 proposals. This led to the official passage of the act on August 21, 1974.\n\nCongress passed the EEOA as a house bill amending the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. The only legislative history available for reference is from a similar bill passed in 1972. The House Committee on Education and Labor noted that the bill was significant in that it contained the first \"illustrative definition of a denial of equal educational opportunity\", and that this lent clarity to schools, governmental authorities, and students as to what, precisely, their rights were.\n\nThe act states that no U.S. state can deny equal educational opportunity to any person on the basis of gender, race, color, or nationality through intentional segregation by an educational institution; neglecting to resolve intentional segregation; by forced assignment of a student to a school, other than the one closest to his or her place of residence, that promotes further segregation; by discrimination in determining faculty and staff; by purposely transferring a student to another school to increase segregation; or by failing to remove language barriers preventing students from being able to equally participating in English classes.\n\nThe act also states that lawsuits may also be filed should individuals believe themselves to be denied equal education from their peers. The U.S. attorney general is also allowed to initiate civil action on behalf of students should he deem it necessary.\n\nThe act remains vague in its statutory language. The EEOA states that no state can deny students the right to equal education by \"failure by an educational agency to take 'appropriate action' to overcome language barriers that impede equal participation by its students in its instructional programs\". For example, although the act bears no mention of bilingual education, but instead uses the term \"appropriate action\" to describe measures Congress may take to enforce the EEOA, Congress has interpreted bilingual education as an action a school district must take to help teach non-English-speaking students how to speak English.\n\nThis case was a landmark case during which the U.S Supreme Court made one of its first interpretations of the term \"appropriate action\". In 1974 the court ruled that a school district based in San Francisco had violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by denying students of Chinese descent opportunities to participate in classes. The court decided that just providing the students with the same textbooks, desks, and teachers was not sufficient, and measures, such as instruction in both Chinese and English, needed to be taken to make sure that English was taught to non-English speaking students.\n\nIn 1981 the U.S Fifth Circuit of Appeals created a three-prong test to be used to determine whether or not school officials denied students not proficient in English the right to enjoy equal educational opportunities. Under this test, an acceptable program for English-language learners is as follows:\n\n\nThe court ruled that students learning English as their second language should be able to receive the rest of the school’s educational opportunities regardless of any language barriers.\n\nIn 1982 the court ruled that public school districts could not deny immigrant students from receiving a free public education. The court also ruled that not only do undocumented children have the right to receive the same public education, but that they are also required, like U.S. citizens and permanent residents, to attend school until they are of age as laid down by the state law.\n\nPublic schools and school personnel are also not allowed to adopt measures that would prevent students from receiving access to public education based on their citizenship status. For example, the court ruled that school officials cannot legally ask students to present proof of citizenship such as green cards. Instead, they can only ask the student to provide proof that they reside within the boundaries of the school district.\n\nIn 1983 the three-part test created in the \"Castañeda v. Pickard\" was used to decide that a school district in Denver, Colorado, had participated in intentionally separating white students from Mexican-American students. The court ordered for desegregation.\n\nIn 1982 the Court ruled that the state of Texas had failed to provide opportunities for English learners, mainly of Latino descent, to overcome language barriers under the EEOA. State education agencies adopted bilingual services to be provided for those learning how to speak English.\n\nIn 1981 the U.S. Ninth Circuit ruled that state education departments needed to enforce federal mandates in local school districts.\n\n This case was first filed in 1992 from parents accusing schools for failing to provide adequate enough educational services for English language learners and in 2000, the court ruled that educational programs were not properly funded nor were enough teachers provided. As a result, the court ruled for sufficient educational resources to be implemented as of January 31, 2002, and in 2009, the Court ruled that the EEOA was officially violated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "901940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901940", "title": "First Vienna Award", "text": "First Vienna Award\n\nThe First Vienna Award was a treaty signed on November 2, 1938, as a result of the First Vienna Arbitration. The Arbitration took place at Vienna's Belvedere Palace. The Arbitration and Award were direct consequences of the Munich Agreement the previous month and decided the partitioning of Czechoslovakia.\n\nNazi Germany and Fascist Italy sought a non-violent way to enforce the territorial claims of the Kingdom of Hungary and to revise the Treaty of Trianon of 1920. Nazi Germany was by this point well into its own revision of the Versailles Treaty, with the remilitarization of the Rhineland (7 March 1936) and the \"Anschluss\" of Austria (March 12, 1938).\n\nThe First Vienna Award separated largely Magyar-populated territories in southern Slovakia and southern Carpathian Rus from Czechoslovakia and awarded them to Hungary. Hungary thus regained some of the territories in present-day Slovakia and Ukraine lost in the Treaty of Trianon in the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian Empire after World War I.\n\nIn mid-March 1939, Adolf Hitler gave Hungary permission to occupy the rest of Carpatho-Ukraine, taking territory further north up to the Polish border, thus creating a common Hungarian-Polish border, as had existed prior to the 18th-century Partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Before the end of the First World War and the Treaties of Trianon and Saint Germain, the Carpathian region of the former Kingdom of Hungary (Transleithania) in the Austro-Hungarian Empire had bordered to the north on the province of Galicia, which had been part of the Cisleithanian part of the Dual Monarchy.\n\nSix months after Hungary had occupied the rest of Carpatho-Ukraine, in September 1939, the Polish government and part of its military escaped to Hungary and Romania, and from there to France and French-mandated Syria, to carry on the war against Hitler's Germany.\n\nAfter World War II, the 1947 Treaty of Paris declared the Vienna Award null and void.\n\nFrom 1933, Hungarian foreign policy closely collaborated with Nazi Germany in the hope of revising the borders established by the Treaty of Trianon. In March 1933, Hungarian prime minister declared that Hungary \"requests justice in the historical principle\", looking for the annexation of Hungarian-inhabited territories lost after the World War I. In June 1933, Hungarian Prime Minister Gyula Gömbös visited Germany and together with Adolf Hitler concluded that Czechoslovakia was the main obstacle for \"rearrangement\" of central Europe and that Czechoslovakia should be internally disintegrated, internationally isolated and then eliminated by military power. During a meeting with Hitler in August 1936, Miklós Horthy explained the purpose of a common attack against Czechoslovakia as removing a \"cancer tumor from the heart of Europe\". At the end of 1937, Hitler decided to start action against Czechoslovakia. In 1938 Germany and Hungary focused on creation of a common platform against Czechoslovakia and, in November, Hitler negotiated with the Hungarian government where they placed importance on destiny of Czechoslovakia.\n\nHungarian representatives considered an attack to be too dangerous and wanted to preserve Hungary's relationships with France and Great Britain, whose support for the problem of Hungarian minorities came on the condition of Hungary not engaging on German military actions. This outraged Adolf Hitler and led to a change in the German view of the territorial demands of Hungary in the eastern part of Czechoslovakia.\n\nBefore the Munich Agreement, a Hungarian government emissary officially asked the German and Italian delegations to resolve Hungarian demands together with the questions of Sudeten Germans. However, Hitler did not agree, because he was not satisfied with the previous passivity of Hungary and had his own plans for Central Europe. The French and British delegates (Édouard Daladier and Neville Chamberlain) saw potential danger in such a complex solution, but thanks to Benito Mussolini, Hungarian demands were reflected in an appendix to the agreement. This attachment requested Czechoslovakia to resolve the minority question with Hungary and Poland within three months through bilateral negotiations; otherwise matters would be resolved by the four signatories of the agreement. After the annexation of Zaolzie and Český Těšín by Poland, the Hungarian question remained open. Poland later annexed further territories in northern Slovakia (on December 1, 1938, villages in Kysuce, Orava a Spiš) comprising 226 km², with 4,280 inhabitants. The Hungarian government understood the appendix of the Munich Agreement as an agreement of the Great Powers for the revision of peace treaties and emphasized that it did not mean only the revision of borders based on ethnicity but also that it opened the way for restoration of territory of Hungary before 1918 (i.e. the creation of a common border with Poland). Official Hungarian circles were aware that Hungary alone was too weak to enforce territorial demands towards Czechoslovakia, because they knew that any attack would encounter the resistance of Czechoslovakia's more modern army. In this situation, Hungary decided to fight with Czechoslovakia in the diplomatic field and to push for territorial revision in the spirit of Munich Agreement.\n\nThe Munich Agreement defined a three-month period to resolve Hungarian demands, and the Hungarian government pushed to start negotiations immediately. The pressure was increased on the Hungarian side by border conflicts and by diversion actions on the Czechoslovak territory. The first conflict occurred in the early morning of October 5, 1938, when troops of the Royal Hungarian Army (Magyar Királyi Honvédség) crossed the border and attacked Czechoslovak positions near Jesenské with the goal of capturing Rimavská Sobota. Hungarian troops withdrew after the arrival of Czechoslovak reinforcements, who killed nine Hungarians and captured prisoners. Two days later, Hungarian troops tried to cross the Danube near Štúrovo (Párkány), but failed again. Their situation was worse in Carpathian Ruthenia with its lower density of fortifications, where paramilitary units of Rongyos Gárda infiltrated Czechoslovak territory. The first two units of the Rongyos Gárda crossed the border on October 6, 1938, and two days later they blew up the bridge over the Borozhava River. Such actions continued during the negotiations and after the First Vienna Award. During the second day of bilateral negotiations (October 10, 1938) Hungarian troops murdered a railway officer in Borozhava and damaged railway facilities.\n\nCzechoslovakia had an interest in stabilizing the situation, because the foreign ministry had to resolve problems with Poland and Germany and did not want to start negotiations before October 15. The Czechoslovak minister of foreign affairs was focused on building new relationships with Germany and Italy to negotiate guarantees for new borders. After the Munich Agreement all political subjects in Slovakia concluded that it is necessary to change the position of Slovakia within the state and declared autonomy (October 6, 1938). The new, autonomous government understood the definition of borders as a priority and the Slovak People's Party requested participation in the negotiations. The central government in Prague was aware that the delegation should be led by a Slovak and considered Milan Hodža or Imrich Karvaš. However, after the creation of an autonomous government, foreign minister František Chvalkovský proposed its representatives – Jozef Tiso or Ferdinand Ďurčanský. Both politicians refused with the justification that the role was in competition with the central government. When it was emphasized that it is mainly the interest of Slovakia, they accepted. Moreover, Jozef Tiso hoped that Hungarian partners would accept concessions easier if they did not negotiate with representatives of the central government. Under the pressure of the threat of internal destabilization of Czechoslovakia because of diverting actions and further radicalization of the situation in Hungary, Czechoslovakia agreed to begin negotiations on October 9.\n\nNegotiations were held between October 9 and October 13, 1938, in Komárno on the Slovak northern bank of the Danube River, just on the border with Hungary. The Czechoslovak delegation was led by Jozef Tiso (the prime minister of the autonomous government) without any experience with similar negotiations, and included Ferdinand Ďurčanský, Minister of Justice in the Slovak cabinet, and General Rudolf Viest. The central government of Czechoslovakia was represented by Dr. Ivan Krno, Political Director of the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who held rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary. Autonomous Carpathian Ruthenia was represented by Ivan Párkányi (minister without portfolio). The Czechoslovak (Slovak and Ruthenian) delegation was not completely prepared because a lack of time. By contrast, the Hungarian delegation comprised experienced individuals and was led by the Foreign Minister Kálmán Kánya, and the Minister of Education, Pál Teleki. The Hungarian government welcomed the composition of Czechoslovak delegation and believed that it would be easier to influence inexperienced Slovak politicians by promises. This expectation was not fulfilled; more Slovak delegates also refused any possibility for return into Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nThe Hungarian government's strategy for the negotiations was to demand areas where at least 50% of Hungarians lived, according to the 1910 census. This formulation was chosen with respect to the signers of the Munich Agreement; however Hungary also requested areas which did not match this criteria. On the first day, Hungary supplied memorandum with requested territorial changes. The Hungarians further demanded a plebiscite in the remaining territory, in which Slovaks and Ruthenians would declare whether they wanted to be incorporated into Hungary.\n\nHungary demanded territories up to and including a line defined by Devín (Hungarian: \"Dévény\"), Bratislava (\"Pozsony\"), Nitra (\"Nyitra\"), Tlmače (\"Garamtolmács\"), Levice (\"Léva\"), Lučenec (\"Losonc\"), Rimavská Sobota (\"Rimaszombat\"), Jelšava (\"Jolsva\"), Rožňava (\"Rozsnyó\"), Košice (\"Kassa\"), Trebišov (\"Tőketerebes\"), Pavlovce nad Uhom (\"Pálóc\"), Uzhhorod (, Hungarian: \"Ungvár\"), Mukacheve (\"Mukačevo\", \"Munkács\"), and Vinogradiv (\"Nagyszőlős\"). The territory was 14,106 km² (with 12,124 km² in Slovakia and 1,982 km² in Carpatian Ruthenia). It included 1,346,000 citizens (1,136,000 in Slovakia, 210,000 in Carpathian Ruthenia). According to the last census from 1930, 678,000 of them declared other than Hungarian nationality (553,000 in Slovakia, 125,000 in Carpathian Ruthenia).\n\nHungary also requested immediate annexation of two border-crossing towns from Czechoslovakia as a \"goodwill gesture\". The Czechoslovak delegation agreed on the railway town of Slovenské Nové Mesto (until 1918 a suburb of the Hungarian town of Sátoraljaújhely) as well as the town of Šahy (). Both were occupied by Hungary on October 12.\n\nThe basic difference between the arguments of the two parties was that the Hungarians presented the 1910 census figures (as had Germany during the Munich Conference) while Czechoslovakia presented the latest 1930 figures and contested the validity of the 1910 census. Later it also presented figures from Hungarian censuses before 1900. The census from 1910 was unacceptable for the Czechoslovak delegation, because it represented the peak of magyarization and it differed from previous Hungarian and later Czechoslovak censuses as well as from postwar censuses from other countries where Hungarian minority lived (Austria, Romania, Yugoslavia). (Jozef Tiso gave an example as he was also counted as a Hungarian during this census). In the case, that Hungarian does not accept result of Czechoslovak census they proposed to use Hungarian census from 1880 (before the peak of magyarization) as a compromise. They also did not agree on definition of \"pure Hungarian\" towns like Košice as were understood by Hungarian delegates.\n\nThe request for a plebiscite for Slovaks and Ruthenians about rejoining Hungary was refused as irrelevant, because the Munich Agreement did not address question of these two nations, because it violated the sovereignty of Czechoslovakia and because the Ruthenian delegate declared that the Ruthenian nation (except communists) had already expressed their will to live in Czechoslovakia in the past.\n\nThe Hungarian delegation refused several Czechoslovak proposals. The Czechoslovak delegation offered Hungary the creation of an autonomous Hungarian territory within Slovakia. Kánya characterized the proposal as a \"bad joke\" and declared that it was \"absolutely impossible to discuss this question\". Czechoslovakia then offered to cede Great Rye Island (Slovak: \"Žitný ostrov\", Hungarian: \"Csallóköz\", 1838 km², with 105,418 inhabitants of whom an overwhelming majority were Hungarians), the creation of a free port in the town of Komárno, and a population exchange in the remaining frontier regions.\n\nSince Hungary turned down this offer as well, on October 13 the Czechoslovak delegation proposed another solution. The goal of this Czechoslovak proposal was to the create borders with balanced minorities in both states (including Slovaks in Békés County). As well as the principle of balanced minorities, the proposal included the Czechoslovak strategic interest of preserving the railway to Carpathian Ruthenia. Pál Teleki refused the proposal without a deeper study as a \"humorous border\" and that Hungarian delegation \"analyzed the map only to be polite\".\nAlthough the Czechoslovak delegation declared that it was open for further discussion about its proposal and offered consultation with their experts, the Hungarian delegation refused further discussion. On the evening of October 13, after consultations in Budapest, Kánya declared that the negotiations had failed and asked the four signatories of the Munich Agreement to be the adjudicator. As the United Kingdom and France had decided not to make any decision, the adjudicators became Joachim von Ribbentrop, the German Foreign Minister, and Galeazzo Ciano, the Italian Foreign Minister.\n\nOn October 13, the day the negotiations deadlocked, Hungary conducted a partial mobilization. Czechoslovakia performed actions to \nstrengthen its security and declared martial law in the frontier region. After the failure of bilateral negotiations, the dispute about borders escalated into the wider international level. The Axis powers took the initiative in favor of Hungary to realize their own plans in the region.\n\nHungary sent delegations both to Italy and to Germany. Count Csáky went to Rome and Kálmán Darányi to Germany. Kálmán Darányi told Adolf Hitler that Hungary was ready to fight and \"[would] not accept behavior of Slovaks\". However, the situation in central Europe changed after the Munich Agreement and the German-Hungarian-Polish bloc was over. Germany refused to take steps to strengthen Hungary. Hitler declared that, if Hungary started a conflict, nobody would help her. He refused the idea of a common conference of the four signers of the Munich Agreement, the demands for plebiscite in Slovakia and Carpathian Ruthenia and the Hungarian claims for Bratislava. Instead, he advised Hungary to continue the negotiations and to preserve the ethnic principle. He proposed that Germany would act as a mediator. Ribbentrop and Darányi agreed on a map which would be offered to Czechoslovakia (\"Ribbentrop line\"). This line later became source of misunderstanding between Hungary and Germany. According to Darányi, Ribbentrop did not accept his requests because several important towns remained on the Czechoslovak side (Bratislava, Nitra, Uzhorod and Mukachevo; the question of Košice was open). Germany refused such accusations and declared that Ribbentrop line was created after consultation and with Darányi and with his agreement. When the Hungarian government insisted on its opinion, Ribbentrop announced that German mediation had ended.\n\nAt the same time as Darányi, Czechoslovak foreign minister František Chvalkovský also visited Germany to negotiate with Nazi representatives. Adolf Hitler blamed Czechoslovakia for the failure of negotiations with Hungary and requested their restoration. He gave Chvalkovský a map with the Ribbentrop line and promised to guarantee new borders based on this proposal. Back in Prague, Chvalkovský recommended accepting the Ribbentrop line. However, the Slovak autonomous government was against such a solution and hoped that it would be possible to achieve further corrections. On October 19, Tiso and Ďurčanský met with Ribbentrop in Munich and managed to persuade him to assign Košice to Czechoslovakia and to accept the prior proposal that there should remain balanced minorities both in Czechoslovakia and Hungary. Czechoslovak experts prepared material that argued that the Hungarian statistics were unreliable and that Hungarian demands were not compliant with the ethnic principle but were driven by foreign policy and strategic factors. They argued that the Hungarian claim for Košice was not motivated by ethnic or historical reasons, but was focused on elimination of the largest communication, economic and cultural center it the east and on the interruption of the railway to Carpatian Ruthenia and allied Romania, therefore totally isolating the eastern part of the republic which could be later annexed by Hungary. Both Tiso and Ďurčanský believed that they persuaded Hitler. Tiso sent letter to Prague to notify about positive results.\n\nA few days later, Ribbentrop revealed himself to be quite hostile to the Hungarians. As Italian Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano saw it, \"The truth is that he intends to protect Czechoslovakia as far as he can and sacrifice the ambitions, even the legitimate ambitions, of Hungary\".\n\nAfter October 17, activities around Subcarpathian Rus intensified. Poland proposed a partition of Subcarpathian Rus among Hungary, Poland and Romania. Romania, a staunch ally of Czechoslovakia against Hungary, refused the proposal, even offering military support for Czechoslovakia in Subcarpathia. Hungary, in turn, attempted to persuade the Carpathorusyn representatives to become part of Hungary. A common Polish-Hungarian frontier, which would arise by a Hungarian annexation of Subcarpathian Rus, had been a long-time dream of both Poland and Hungary, Poland was moving troops toward that frontier for support. However, since a common Polish-Hungarian frontier would mean a flanking of Germany, Germany was willing to face such a frontier only if Poland made compensation by giving up the Danzig corridor to East Prussia. Poland refused the German proposal. On October 20, the Rusyns produced a resolution more or less in favor of a plebiscite concerning the entirety of Carpathorus becoming part of Hungary. Five days later Subcarpathian Prime Minister Andriy Borody was placed under arrest in Prague, and Subcarpathian Foreign Minister Avhustyn Voloshyn was appointed prime minister in his stead. He was willing to consider the cession only of ethnically Hungarian territories to Hungary, and rejected the idea of a plebiscite.\n\nNegotiations between Czechoslovakia and Hungary resumed via diplomatic channels. Czechoslovakia adopted the \"Ribbentrop line\" in the hope that it would receive a guarantee of new borders from the side of Axis powers and proposed it officially on October 22. Czechoslovakia offered to cede Hungary territory with 494,646 Hungarians and 168,632 Slovaks. Czechoslovakia would retain Bratislava, Nitra and Košice. Hungary turned down the proposal, causing Germany to withdraw its position as mediator. Hungary demanded that the territories offered by Czechoslovakia be immediately occupied by Hungary, that there be a plebiscite in the disputed territory, and that Subcarpathia \"decide its own future\". For Czechoslovakia, it was unacceptable to cede territories which were not subject of discussion immediately and to resolve the question of the remaining parts later. By accepting the proposal, Czechoslovak boundary fortifications would stay on the Hungarian side and the Hungarian army could potentially break in deeper into Czechoslovak territory. Hungary also warned that if Czechoslovakia refused this proposal, Hungary would demand arbitration (Italo-German in Western Slovakia, Italo-German-Polish in Eastern Slovakia and Subcarpathian Rus). In this situation, Czechoslovakia had no choice but to accept Hungarian demands or to agree with arbitration. This decision was forced also by fact that France and Great Britain lost interest on Czechoslovakia and considered the region to be in the German sphere of influence. Both parties hoped that Germany would support their demands. The Slovak autonomous government also accepted the idea of arbitration with unrealistic expectations based on assurances of Ribbentrop.\n\nAlthough the Hungarian government demanded arbitration, it did not have the prior approval of Germany. Hungary managed to persuade Italy that the powerful German influence exercised through Czechoslovakia could be eliminated by a strong Hungary. Galeazzo Ciano, the Italian Foreign Minister, accepted this proposal and promised to advocate Hungarian interests. During Ribbentrop's visit to Rome (October 27–30, 1938) Ciano persuaded Ribbentrop about the importance of arbitration for the future position of Axis powers in the region and Ribbentrop promised to persuade Hitler. Italy took the initiative and proposed to achieve common agreement in Rome as a basis for arbitration. Ciano, already briefed by Hungarian experts, was in better position than less informed Ribbentrop and achieved several important concessions. On October 31, the Hungarian envoy in Rome confidentially informed Hungarian government that \"Ribbentrop definitely agreed with return of Košice, Uzhorod and Mukachevo\".\n\nOn October 29, 1938, Czechoslovakia and Hungary officially asked Germany and Italy to arbitrate, and declared in advance that they would abide by the results.\n\nThe award was made in Vienna by the foreign ministers of Germany (Joachim von Ribbentrop) and Italy (Galeazzo Ciano). The Hungarian delegation was led by Foreign Minister Kálmán Kánya, accompanied by Minister of Education Pál Teleki. The Czechoslovak delegation was led by the Foreign Minister, František Chvalkovský, and by Ivan Krno. Important members of the Czechoslovak delegation included representatives of Subcarpathian Rus — Prime Minister Avgustyn Voloshyn — and of Slovakia – Prime Minister Jozef Tiso and Minister of Justice Ferdinand Ďurčanský. Hermann Göring was also present.\n\nThe arbitration began in the Belvedere Palace, in Vienna, at noon on November 2, 1938. The Czechoslovak and Hungarian delegations were allowed to present their arguments. Chvalkovský was brief and left the task of presenting the Czechoslovak case to Krno. Although it was explicitly demanded by Czechoslovak representatives, both arbiters refused to let Slovak Prime Minister Tiso and Subcarpathian Prime Minister Voloshyn participate. Ribbentrop and Ciano reasoned that only the representatives of the central governments could participate (namely Czechoslovakia in this case rather than the partially autonomous Slovakia or Carpatho-Ruthenia). They assumed that Chvalkovský would be more submissive and Tiso would complicate the negotiations. The negotiation was a formality and a new border was drawn after half a day. When the award was announced by Ribbentrop around 7 p.m., the Czechoslovak delegation was so shocked that Jozef Tiso actually had to be talked by Ribbentrop and Chvalkovský into signing the document.\n\nCzechoslovakia was obliged to surrender the territories in southern Slovakia and southern Carpathian Ruthenia south of the line (and inclusive of the towns of) Senec (Szenc), Galanta (Galánta), Vráble (Verebély), Levice (Léva), Lučenec (Losonc), Rimavská Sobota (Rimaszombat), Jelšava (Jolsva), Rožnava (Rozsnyó), Košice (Kassa), Michaľany (Szentmihályfalva), Veľké Kapušany (Nagykapos), Uzhhorod (Ungvár), and Mukachevo (Munkács) – to the border with Romania. Slovakia lost 10,390 km² with 854,277 inhabitants – 503,980 Hungarians (58,99%), 272,145 Slovaks or Czechs (32,43%), 26,151 Jews (3,06%), 8,947 Germans (1,05%), 1,825 Ruthenians, 14,617 other and 26,005 foreign citizens (according to the Czechoslovak census from 1930). Considering average population growth since the last census, it is possible to estimate the total size of population in the time of the arbitration to 935,000 people, 300,000 of whom were Slovaks and Czechs Czechoslovakia lost also additional territory in Carpathian Ruthenia.\n\nSlovaks in the annexed territory joined the existing Slovak minority in Hungary, while only about 60,000 Hungarians remained in the non-annexed part of Slovakia. The new border did not respect the principle of ethnic borders requested by Hungary as a \"correction of injustices of Treaty of Trianon\" nor the Hungarian census from 1910. The most obvious violations of ethnic principle occurred in areas around Nové Zámky–Vráble–Hurbanovo, the area around Jelšava and the area around Košice. Only 8 of 79 villages around Košice had a majority Hungarian population, beside 42,245 Slovaks in Košice. Czechoslovakia lost direct railway connection to Carpathian Ruthenia and to allied Romania.\n\nTiso took the result as a personal failure especially because he had not arranged evacuation of Košice. He announced the results of the award on radio late in the evening, accused the central government of fault for its long term policy but accepted the result.\n\nThe ceded territories were occupied by Hungarian honvéd (\"Magyar Királyi Honvédség\") between November 5 and 10, 1938. On November 11, Hungarian Regent Miklós Horthy solemnly entered the principal town, Košice (Kassa).\n\nThe recovered Upper Hungary territories were incorporated into Hungary on November 12, 1938, by an act of the Hungarian Parliament. Following the ancient counties of the Kingdom of Hungary, the occupied territory was divided into two new counties with seats in Nové Zámky and Levice, while some lands became part of other Hungarian counties.\n\nThe First Vienna Award led to worsening anti-Hungarian sentiments in Slovakia. Shortly after the award had been announced, János Esterházy, a leader of the Hungarian minority in Slovakia, proposed that Hungary return to Slovakia 1000 km² of the territory that Hungary had received (predominantly Slovak lands between Šurany (Nagysurány) and Palárikovo (Tótmegyer)) in order to ensure long-term peaceful coexistence between the two nations. His proposal was not accepted by the Hungarian government. The obvious violation of the ethnic balance between the two countries' minorities that had repeatedly been endorsed years before by Hungary, as well as the short period between the award and a Hungarian attack against Slovakia in March 1939, caused the anti-Hungarian mood and social mobilizations against Hungarians to become a significant unifying element in Slovaks during World War II. Anti-Hungarian demonstrations were held on each anniversary of the award. During demonstrations, anti-Hungarian slogans were shouted and Hungarian houses or cultural institutions were damaged. On the third anniversary, a mob furious because of the shooting of Slovaks by Hungarian police in Komjatice destroyed the Hungarian Cultural House.\n\nHungary annulled point 4 of article 27 of the Treaty of Trianon where it committed to respect new borders defined in the peace treaty. Hungary also violated articles 48 and 49 of the treaty which guaranteed independence and rights of new Czechoslovak state. In addition to territorial gains based on the First Vienna Award, Hungary ignored the results of the arbitration and tried to annex Carpathian Ruthenia few weeks later.\n\nFrom the Middle Ages well into the 18th century, Hungary and Poland had shared a historic common border, and the two peoples had always enjoyed good-neighborly relations. Following the Munich Agreement (September 30, 1938) the two countries had worked together to restore their historic common border. A step toward their goal was realized with the First Vienna Award (November 2, 1938).\n\nUnder pressure from Hitler, Slovakia declared total independence on March 14, 1939, and Czechoslovakia ceased to exist. Two days earlier, Hitler had given Hungary permission to occupy the rest of Carpatho-Ruthenia within 24 hours, but to abstain from attempting to annex the remainder of Slovakia, which Hitler wanted to turn into a strategically located German ally, especially for his planned invasion of Poland. On March 14–15, what remained of Carpatho-Ruthenia declared its independence as Carpatho-Ukraine, and shortly after, between March 15 and 18, was occupied by Hungary. After Carpatho-Ukraine, Hungary occupied a small part of Slovakia on March 15. Seeing no substantial reaction, Hungary on March 23 launched a larger attack on Eastern Slovakia. The plan was to \"advance as far west as possible.\" After a short Slovak-Hungarian War (with several Hungarian air raids, e.g. March 24 on Spišská Nová Ves), Hungary was forced by Germany to stop and negotiate. As a result of the negotiations (March 27 – April 4), Hungary received further territories in Eastern Slovakia (1,897 km²) with 69,630 inhabitants, almost exclusively Slovaks or Rusyns. Unlike the earlier Vienna Award, these annexed territories were not justified on ethnic grounds. (The Hungarians justified this under the grounds that the Vienna award was an arbitration between Hungary and Czechoslovakia, and the latter had ceased to exist a few days earlier.)\n\nUntil mid-March 1939, Germany had considered that \"for military reasons a common Hungarian-Polish frontier was undesirable\". Indeed, Hitler had warned Hungary not to touch the remainder of Slovakia, when he authorized Hungary to occupy the rest of Carpathorus in March 1939. He meant to use Slovakia as a staging ground for his planned invasion of Poland. In March 1939 Hitler changed his mind about the common Hungarian-Polish frontier, and decided to betray Germany's ally, the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, who had already in 1938 begun organizing Ukrainian military units in a \"sich\" outside Uzhhorod under German tutelage. Polish political and military authorities saw the \"sich\" as a real and present danger to nearby southeastern Poland, with its largely Ukrainian population. Hitler, however, was concerned that if a Ukrainian army organized in Rus were to accompany German forces invading the Soviet Union, Ukrainian nationalists would insist on the establishment of an independent Ukraine; Hitler, who had plans for the natural and farming resources of Ukraine, did not want to have to deal with an independent Ukrainian government.\n\nHitler would soon have cause to regret his decision regarding the fate of Carpatho-Ukraine. In six months, during his 1939 invasion of Poland, the common Hungarian-Polish border would become of major importance when Admiral Horthy's government, on the ground of long-time friendship between Poles and Hungarians, declined, as a matter of Hungarian honor, Hitler's request to transit German forces across Carpathian Rus into southeastern Poland to speed Poland's conquest. This in turn allowed the Polish government and tens of thousands of Polish military personnel to escape into neighboring Hungary and Romania, and from there to France and French-mandated Syria to carry on operations as the third-strongest Allied belligerent after Britain and France. Also, for a time Polish and British intelligence agents and couriers, including the notable Krystyna Skarbek, used Hungary's Carpathorus as a route across the Carpathian Mountains to and from Poland.\n\nThe Vienna Award escalated in Slovakia into the first deportations of Jews. Tiso and his collaborators looked for a scapegoat which was found in Jews, because of their demonstration in favour of the annexation of Bratislava into Hungary in the evening before the arbitration. Between November 4 and 5, 1938, Slovakia's autonomous government deported 7,500 Jews into the annexed territory (Tiso justified this step as \"letting them go where they wanted\"). Hungary refused to accept these people, which included some who were elderly or children, and the deported Jews found themselves imprisoned in no man's land in the cold autumn weather. Hundreds of Jews stayed in a camp in Veľký Kýr and Miloslavov, where they were unable to move to residences in either Slovakia or Hungary.\n\nAfter the Vienna Award, the Hungarian government and United Hungarian Party together organized celebrations and a triumphant entry of the Hungarian army into the annexed territories. Organizers consciously imitated the entry of Hitler's army into the Sudetenland. The result of arbitration was met by the most of the Hungarian population with local statements of disagreement. Hungarian Honvéds were not welcomed also in some \"pure Hungarian\" villages and in one village their accommodation had to be arranged by force. A few days before the arbitration, Budapest also received messages from some of borderline villages refusing annexation by Hungary (\"Stay there, do not liberate us. We are having a good time, better than you, liberate yourself\"). The Vienna Award finally refuted inter-war Hungarian propaganda that \"Slovak brothers\" dreamed about return to the thousand-years-old Hungarian Empire and that they could not openly declare their opinion under Czech domination.\n\nHungary imposed military administration on the annexed territories. Between October 28 and 29, 1938, Béla Imrédy and the leader of the United Hungarian Party Andor Jaross made an agreement that representatives of the party who stayed in annexed territories would be part of a civic group of general staff, which should hold supreme authority. One of its parts (the Upper Country Unification Group) later became the basis for the Ministry for Upper Country, led by Jaross. All other political parties were banned and obstacles were made for the introduction of other parties from Hungary. The United Hungarian Party then used its power for the persecution of Slovaks but also of Hungarians who had disagreed with the activities against Czechoslovakia before the award. Military administration was changed to civilian on December 21, 1938.\n\nHungary performed a new census in the annexed territory in December 1938. The census took place in an atmosphere of expulsions, persecutions, restriction of civil rights and psychological coercion of Hungarian authorities. In addition, it was performed under direct control of military bodies and violated several principles for taking a census of nationalities. According to the results, the population consisted of 86.5% Hungarians and 9.8% Slovaks. The total size of Slovak population was reduced to 121,603; 67 villages lost Slovak majority; the size of the Slovak population was decreased by 74,100; and the Hungarian population increased by 77,715. Contrary to the Czechoslovak census from 1930, the Hungarian census again did not count the nationality declared by citizens, but the \"mother tongue\" registered by census commissars, as in the Hungarian census from 1910. The two censuses significantly differed in the view on Jewish population. In Czechoslovakia, Jews were allowed to declare separate Jewish nationality, but in Hungarian census they missed own mother tongue and their real numbers can be estimated only by declared religion.\n\nFor a full comparison of the censuses, it is necessary to take into account the population transfer after the annexation (voluntary or forced), the demographic changes during the previous 20 years of Czechoslovakia (such as the arrival of Czechoslovak state employees and colonists and natural domestic migration), bilingualism of population and the reliability of previous statistics, particularly of the 1910 census from the peak of magyarization).\n\nThe non-Hungarian population of the territory ceded by the First Vienna Award can be divided into three groups – those who left already before the Award came into force, those who remained in their place during the war and until it was integrated to Czechoslovakia again and those who were expelled from the region. The Czechoslovak press reported after the Munich Agreement that border adjustments with Hungary were imminent, so the Czechoslovaks had five weeks to decide whether they stayed or left. According to Janics those officials and farmers who opted to move away (81,000 people) were given administrative, military and public safety support and they were provided road vehicles and railway wagons to transport their property. Deák estimates the number of state employees and Czech colonists who left territory before the arrival of the Hungarian army as one half while the total number of Slovaks who left territory before December 1938 (voluntarily or by forced expulsion) is unknown and can be estimated only by comparison of two censuses from 1930 and 1938 and assumed population growth. His estimate is about 50,000 people of Slovak nationality.\n\nHungary breached several points of the agreement about evacuation and transfer of territory from the beginning, particularly its commitment to prevent violent acts on territory under its administration. The nationalist Hungarian thinking considered the Czech and Slovak colonists – who got their lands in the ethnic Hungarian territories by the nationalist Czechoslovak land reform – as aliens. While some of these colonists left before the Award and others stayed where they were, a number of them were expelled by force and intimidation. Tilkovszky puts the number of expelled families to 647.\n\nDeák documents that the expulsion of \"colonists\" was not realized as an arbitrary act of nationalists but that the Hungarian General Staff gave an order to expel all Slovak and Czech colonists on November 5, 1938. This also included their family members and descendants. On November 11, 1938, the Hungarian General Staff issued a new edict which imposed measures against colonists and ordered their immediate expulsion and defined them as enemies of the state; the organized persecution of non-Hungarian population was based on these orders. Soldiers and police could freely perform home inspections without needing official authorization; they could also confiscate stocks of food, livestock, grain. The term \"colonists\" did not cover only agricultural colonists, but it was interpreted by Hungarian government as any non-Hungarian population which settled in the annexed territory since 1918 for whatever reason. Exceptions were not allowed even for persons who declared Hungarian nationality and beside Slovaks, Moravians and Czechs forced expulsion also affected Germans Forced expulsion was frequently preceded by arrest and imprisonment related to physical torturing; in others it involved transportation to border with Czechoslovakia with military assistance.\n\nThe colonists were followed by state employees, by Slovak farmers (including those who inherited land or bought it in a standard legal way with their own money) and later by anybody denoted as an unreliable. Lists of unreliable persons were prepared by members of the Hungarian United Party already before the First Vienna Award. The measures took place in a violent way with shooting, casualties and looting of Slovak and Czech stores and property. Military bodies usually did not react to complaints, or they openly declared that they would not do anything against offenders and violence. Under such conditions, many Slovaks and Czechs decided to leave the territory. In addition, they signed official statement that they moved voluntarily and all of their property (except items allowed to be exported) passed into the ownership of Hungary. In Gbelce (Köbölkút), three Czech colonists were shot dead and one hanged. Employees of public administration had to leave territory in 48 hours and they were replaced by administration from Hungary.\n\nAs a reaction to the expulsion of colonists, Czechoslovakia started to take countermeasures and declared that further expelled civilians would be settled on land belonging to members of the Hungarian minority and Hungarian state citizens (the Hungarian aristocracy owned 50,000 ha of agricultural land and 14,000 ha of woods in Slovakia). Hungary promised that it would stop mass expulsions and was open to negotiations about property issues. Changes in Hungarian policy were driven by several factors. The new Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs, István Csáky, advocated the opinion that Hungarian steps did not have the expected effects, increased anti-Hungarian moods, caused disillusionment of the last Hungarophiles and pushed the Slovak government into cooperation with the central Czechoslovak government. The Hungarian government continued with expulsion, but claimed that it was not mass expulsion, that Slovaks and Czechs left the territory voluntarily and that Hungary had not prevented them from doing so. \n\nAlthough Miklós Horthy promised to guarantee the freedom of Slovak language and culture in the annexed territory, Hungary failed to protect its new minorities. The promise of the Slovak government of \"adequate help and protection\" of non-Hungarian citizens, and its recommendation to stay in the annexed territory was also naive, counterproductive and led to unnecessary losses of lives and property.\n\nAll non-Hungarian organizations were dissolved and their property was confiscated or given to Hungarian organisations. In Nové Zámky Jewish citizens were interned in a colony abandoned by Slovaks and Czechs shortly after annexation, Jewish lease agreements were canceled and office spaces were given to Christians.\n\nAll schools built by Slovak League (approximately 150) were declared to be the property of the Hungarian state. According to Jablonický, Deák and other authors, 862 of 1,119 teachers lost their jobs by the end of 1938; others followed in the next years. Janics puts the total number of teachers at 1,088, adding that most of them left voluntarily already before the Award came into effect. At the beginning of 1939, the Slovak government protested against the expulsion of Slovak teachers and the liquidation of Slovak schools and threatened reciprocal measures against Hungarian minority schools in the case if Hungary's policy continued.\n\nThe expulsion of teachers was often related to violence and public degradation. In Losonc, Hungary deported 54 Slovak teachers on the demarcation line (Deák documents further examples of steps which eliminated Slovak schools). Slovaks lost 386 primary schools attended by 45,709 Slovak children and 29 council schools (\"burgher schools\") attended by 10,750 children. Four grammar school were closed in Kassa, and six in other towns. Remaining Slovak state employees (like railway workers) were forced to enrol their children into Hungarian schools. In several Slovak villages, police dispersed parents' associations and parents who demanded Slovak schools were beaten. Parents from Regeteruszka and Balogd who demanded Slovak school were imprisoned for two weeks. In several places Hungarian police burned Slovak school supplies, requested that they be burned by the school director or simply confiscated them. However, this pressure was not sufficient in general; for instance, in Nagysurány Slovaks excluded from their community anybody who enrolled children to Hungarian schools. Overcrowding of Hungarian classes with Slovaks had negative impact also on quality of education of local Hungarian population.\n\nThe slow adoption of the Hungarian language confirmed that the idea of Hungarian state remained fictitious for Slovaks. In the fall of 1943, the Hungarian government came to the conclusion that direct magyarization trends would be replaced by educational activities in the mother tongue of minorities. This plan did not take place because of the later occupation of Hungary by Germany.\n\nThe Hungarian government ordered the revision of trade licences for Jews on annexed territory. This anti-Jewish measure was not applied for the rest of Hungary in that time. 80% of Jews lost their license with significant impact on economic life; in towns like Kassa, Érsekújvár or Losonc every second shop was closed.\n\nSlovakia lost 41% of its agricultural soil, which produced approximately 80% of products required for food supply. This was a notable loss for Slovakia, but was not of clear benefit for Hungary. Due to existing problems with overproduction, annexation caused problems both for local farmers and for the economic policy of Hungary. Only half of Southern Slovakia's 400,000 tons of wheat production was used locally, and the second half had no consumers. The border between the annexed territory and Hungary proper was closed during the military administration, so distribution in this direction was impossible. The situation improved only partially during the civilian administration, when grain and livestock prices remained low. The Hungarian government tried to improve the situation by state intervention purchases, but this failed to resolve the long-term implications of the overproduction. Prices of agricultural goods decreased by 20–30%. Existing cartels in Hungary had limited possibilities to grow the most profitable crops. This resulted in The Economic Association of Nitra County demanding the right \"to grow sugar-beet under the same conditions as during Czech rule\"; the request was refused. On February 24, 1939, the government cabinet restricted growing of red pepper only to limited areas around Érsekújvár.\n\nCzechoslovakia provided more job opportunities by construction of roads, regulation of rivers and building construction. These projects were stopped after annexation. Unemployment rates increased, and unlike Czechoslovakia Hungary did not provide any unemployment benefits or state health insurance for workers in agriculture. Retirement and disability pensions were also lower. Unemployed workers who received support under Czechoslovakian rule requested the same from Hungary. Salaries and as working conditions worsened, but taxes increased in the same time. Money conversion at exchange rates disadvantageous for local citizens (7:1) automatically decreased salaries by 20%. Hungarian soldiers profited from the exchange rate and bought up the remaining cheap Czechoslovak goods at the expense of their sellers. New goods from Hungary were 20–30% more expensive. Electricity, radio and railway tickets became also more expensive.\n\nLocal Hungarians had difficulties understanding these problems, because interwar propaganda had portrayed reunification of the ethnically Hungarian territories as mutually beneficial for both parties. However, in many aspects, Czechoslovakia gave Hungarians more civic and social rights than Hungary did just a year later. The Hungarian government answered by appealing to Hungarian patriotism. In April 1939, Hungarian professors wrote demands to the Hungarian government and protested against price rates and their bad social situation.\n\nSocial problems on annexed territory were discussed in the cabinet meeting on December 22, 1939. The interior minister, Ferenc Keresztes-Fischer, who was responsible for questions of common goods, health service and social policy, proposed a solution based on unification. The Minister for Upper Country, Andor Jaross, disagreed with this solution and proposed providing the Czechoslovak welfare system for those in the annexed areas for a transitional period, but had no objections to decreasing it to the Hungarian level. The cabinet finally agreed on a compromise. The elimination of Czechoslovak laws from annexed territory was understood as a duty, but it had to be done step by step. The first step was to decrease the value of a retirement pension from its Czechoslovak value (150 pengő) to its Hungarian value (60 pengő) through a transition value of 120 pengő. Sickness insurance for workers in agriculture was preserved in the form of Czechoslovak regulation for the moment, but it was changed from compulsory to voluntary. In Slovakia, the Czechoslovak system of welfare was preserved after the break-up of Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn terms of international law, the Vienna Award was later ruled to be null and void. Although it was presented as a voluntary act of two sovereign states in arbitration, the Czechoslovak government had accepted arbitration under a presumed threat from both arbiters (Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy) and under heavy influence of the demands of Hungary. Under international law, the act is considered to have been illegal and its result could not be accepted as valid. Just as the Munich agreement was later nullified as Czechoslovakia's interests were largely ignored and the arbiters had used their military prowess to pressure those in the agreement, the Vienna Award was also found to be illegal at the end of World War II. From this legal standpoint, the Vienna Award never existed as a valid legal act.\n\nOn December 11, 1940, the British ministry of foreign affairs confirmed to the Czechoslovak government that Great Britain was not bound to Munich Agreement in question of Czechoslovak borders. In their interpretation, the Munich Agreement was signed properly, but became invalid on March 15, 1939. Negotiations about the British standpoint continued until halfway through 1942. On June 9, 1942, the Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov confirmed restoration of Czechoslovakia to its borders before the Munich Agreement. On September 26, 1944, the Italian foreign minister Carlo Sforza informed a Czechoslovak representative that Italy had considered the Munich Agreement and the First Vienna Award to be invalid from their beginnings. This was confirmed in the peace treaty with Hungary (Treaty of Paris) signed February 10, 1947, whose Article 1 (4a) stated that \"The decisions of the Vienna Award of November 2, 1938, are declared null and void\". The Treaty went on to declare that the frontier between Hungary and Czechoslovakia was to be fixed along the former frontier between Hungary and Czechoslovakia as it existed on January 1, 1938 (except three villages south of Bratislava, which were given as a bridgehead to Czechoslovakia).\n\nThe Munich Agreement, the First Vienna Award and participation of minority parties on the break-up of Czechoslovakia resulted in the redefinition of Czechoslovak minority policy after war. While interwar Czechoslovakia guaranteed relatively high minority rights and civic and social rights of Hungarians were higher than in Hungary, they became the target of serious discrimination in the period after war. The Hungarian question had to be resolved by population exchange between Czechoslovakia and Hungary, slovakization and deportations of Hungarians within Czechoslovakia (particularly to the Sudetenland). The Government Program of Košice (April 5, 1945) accepted the principle of collective guilt for German and Hungarian minorities. articles X. and XI. ordered the seizure of their property and article XV. the closure of minority schools. Measures against minorities were reasoned by \"terrible experience of Czechs and Slovaks with German and Hungarian minorities, which largely become willing tool in the services of aggressive policy from outside; and where especially Czechoslovak Germans cooperated directly on extermination campaign against the Czech and Slovak nation\". The government program was followed by series of regulations in the same spirit. Except anti-fascist fighters, Hungarians lost Czechoslovak citizenship because of the presidential decree on August 2, 1945. The presidential decree \"About amnesty for acts performed during anti-fascistic fight\" prevented punishment of the most cruel crimes against Hungarian minority. The two countries did mutual population exchange (68,407 Hungarians and 59,774 Slovaks). A further 31,780 Hungarians were expelled because they had settled in these territories only after the Vienna Award.\n\nThe communistic coup in Czechoslovakia in February 1948 did not immediately improve status of Hungarians, but relationships began to normalize in the second half of 1948. During his visit in Budapest on March 15, 1948, the chairman of the Czechoslovak Constitutional National Assembly declared that the Hungarian people was not responsible for oppression of Slovak people in the past, for the crimes of Hungarian noblemen nor for the regime of Miklós Horthy. In October 1948 the Czechoslovak parliament restored Czechoslovak citizenship to Hungarians who were residents in Slovakia on November 1, 1938, and who had not been convicted of crime. The return of property disappeared in the context of communist collectivization and became irrelevant. On April 16, 1949, the two countries signed an agreement about friendship and cooperation. On July 25, 1949, Hungarian government committed to return artistic and historical relics seized after the First Vienna Award. The final agreement was signed on November 11, 1951 with validity for ten years, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "650998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650998", "title": "Fisc", "text": "Fisc\n\nUnder the Merovingians and Carolingians, the fisc (from Latin \"fiscus,\" whence we derive \"fiscal\") applied to the royal demesne which paid taxes, entirely in kind, from which the royal household was meant to be supported, though it rarely was. Though their personal territory was at first enormous, the Merovingian kings, faced with stiff resistance to taxation from their Frankish and Gallo-Roman subjects and ill-served by their illiterate peers, relied on constant conquests to renew the \"fisc\" which they were in the habit of granting away to ensure continued fidelity among their followers. Once fresh Frankish conquests were no longer forthcoming, constant redivision of the \"fisc\" among heirs reduced Merovingian kingship to a cluster of competitive kinglets subsisting on inadequate resources. Annual contributions in kind, of grain, produce, fodder, etc., were unwieldy to transport and not easily convertible, so the restless habit of Merovingian kings moving from stronghold to stronghold was constantly encouraged. As time passed, \"fisc\" began to refer to money any Frankish knight had direct control over and would carry with him. Eventually, \"fisc\" referred to any knight's money holder.\n\nNowadays, \"fisc\" is still used in French and in Romanian as a slang referring to the fiscal administration. In Spanish, the slang word \"fisco\" is also used.\n"}
{"id": "47722979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47722979", "title": "Florence Baker", "text": "Florence Baker\n\nFlorence, Lady Baker or Florica Maria Sas; Barbara Szász; Maria Freiin von Sass; Barbara Szasz; Barbara Maria Szász; Barbara Maria Szasz (; 6 August 1841 – 11 March 1916) was a Hungarian-born British explorer. Born in Transylvania (then Kingdom of Hungary), she became an orphan and was sold as a slave to Samuel Baker. Together they went in search of the source of the River Nile and found Lake Albert. They journeyed to Samuel Baker's home in England where they were married and she became Lady Baker. She later returned to Africa with her husband to try and put down the slave trade. They both retired and died in Devon.\n\nSome sources say that Florence Barbara Maria von Sass was born in Nagyenyed (today Aiud, Romania) in 1841. The story handed down in the Baker family is that she was the daughter of a Székely officer from a Hungarian noble family, who had estates in Transylvania, called von Sas (a branch of the von Sass family) and whilst she was young, during the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 \"her father and brothers had been killed before her eyes\" by Romanians. As an adolescent, she spoke Hungarian, German, Romanian and Turkish. She may have been fourteen when she was being sold as a slave in Vidin, a town and fortified port on the River Danube in what was then the Ottoman Empire and is now Bulgaria, in January 1859. According to certain accounts, she was destined to be owned by the Pasha of Vidin but she had been spotted by Samuel Baker. He and Maharaja Duleep Singh were both on a hunting trip. Samuel Baker bribed the guards and Florence was allowed to escape into his ownership.\n\nSamuel Baker took her to Africa where he was leading an expedition to find the source of the River Nile. They travelled up the Nile to Gondokoro in present-day South Sudan where Florence saved the expedition. There was a dispute between her husband's inflexibility and the staff's disloyalty. Florence was able to intercede and find some common agreement. Gondokoro was a base for ivory and slaves, and the point where boats could go no further and where they would need to travel to the source on foot. There they met Speke and Grant who told them of their explorations. They suggested that they investigate another branch of the Nile. When Speke and Grant both later wrote down accounts of their voyages neither of them mentioned that Baker had Florence with him. This was in line with an agreement they made with Samuel Baker.\n\nFlorence and Baker discovered Murchison Falls and Lake Albert in what is now Uganda.\n\nArriving in England, they lived at Hedenham Hall in Norfolk. They were married on 4 November 1865 at St James's Church, Piccadilly and when Samuel Baker was knighted she became Lady Baker. The details of how they met was meant to be kept secret but the story circulated and this resulted in Queen Victoria deciding to exclude Baker from court.\n\nIn 1869 Samuel was invited by Isma'il Pasha, the Turkish Viceroy of Egypt, to return to Africa to help eliminate or reduce the trade in slaves around Gondokoro. Samuel was made Governor General of the Equatorial Nile. Accepting the invitation, they returned to Africa where they attempted to gain the upper hand. Florence served as the medic and when they were defeated at Bunyoro she was there carrying rifles and brandy in addition to two umbrellas and a pistol.\n\nIn 1873 she and her husband started living at their house, Sandford Orleigh, at Newton Abbot in Devon. General Gordon arrived in February 1883 and requested that Samuel assist him in evacuating people from the besieged Khartoum during the Mahdist War in Egypt. Florence would be required on such a journey. However, Florence would not go back to Africa and her husband would not travel without her. Sir Samuel Baker died in 1893. Florence Baker died in Devon more than twenty years later, but they were buried together.\n\nThe Bakers appear in a painting called \"Samuel Baker (1821–93) and the Discovery of Lake Albert\" by .\n\nTogether with Delia Akeley, Christina Dodwell, Mary Kingsley and Alexandrine Tinné, she was one of the five subjects chosen for a 1997 book on women explorers in Africa.\n"}
{"id": "18134605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18134605", "title": "Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008", "text": "Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008\n\nThe FISA Amendments Act of 2008, also called the FAA and Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008, is an Act of Congress that amended the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. It has been used as the legal basis for surveillance programs disclosed by Edward Snowden in 2013, including PRISM.\n\nWarrantless wiretapping by the National Security Agency (NSA) was revealed publicly in late 2005 by \"The New York Times\" and then reportedly discontinued in January 2007. See Letter from Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales to Senators Patrick Leahy and Arlen Specter, CONG. REC. S646-S647 (January 17, 2007). Approximately forty lawsuits have been filed against telecommunications companies by groups and individuals alleging that the Bush administration illegally monitored their phone calls or e-mails. Whistleblower evidence suggests that AT&T was complicit in the NSA's warrantless surveillance, which could have involved the private communications of millions of Americans.\n\nThe Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act makes it illegal to intentionally engage in electronic surveillance under appearance of an official act or to disclose or use information obtained by electronic surveillance under appearance of an official act knowing that it was not authorized by statute; this is punishable with a fine of up to $10,000 or up to five years in prison, or both. In addition, the Wiretap Act prohibits any person from illegally intercepting, disclosing, using, or divulging phone calls or electronic communications; this is punishable with a fine or up to five years in prison, or both.\n\nThe FISA Amendments Act also added a new Title VII to FISA which contained provisions similar, but not identical, to provisions in the Protect America Act of 2007 which had expired earlier in 2008. The new provisions in Title VII of FISA were scheduled to expire on December 31, 2012, but two days before the U.S. Senate extended the FISA Amendments Act for five years (until December 31, 2017) which renews the U.S. government's authority to monitor electronic communications of foreigners abroad.\n\nSection 702 permits the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence to jointly authorize targeting of persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United States, but is limited to targeting non-U.S. persons. Once authorized, such acquisitions may last for periods of up to one year.\n\nUnder subsection 702(b) of the FISA Amendments Act, such an acquisition is also subject to several limitations. Specifically, an acquisition:\n\nSection 702 authorizes foreign surveillance programs by the National Security Agency (NSA), like PRISM and some earlier data collection activities which were previously authorized under the President's Surveillance Program from 2001.\n\n\nA group of netroots bloggers and Representative Ron Paul supporters joined together to form a bipartisan political action committee called Accountability Now to raise money during a one-day money bomb, which, according to \"The Wall Street Journal\", would be used to fund advertisements against Democratic and Republican lawmakers who supported the retroactive immunity of the telecommunications company.\n\nSpecifically, the Act:\n\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed a lawsuit challenging the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 on the day it was enacted. The case was filed on behalf of a broad coalition of attorneys and human rights, labor, legal, and media organizations whose ability to perform their work—which relies on confidential communications—could be compromised by the new law. The complaint, captioned \"Amnesty et al. v McConnell\" and filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, argued that the eavesdropping law violated people's rights to free speech and privacy under the First and Fourth Amendments to the Constitution. The case was dismissed from the district court on the grounds that the plaintiffs could not prove their claims, but was revived in March 2011 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which disagreed. The subsequent citation was \"Amnesty v. Blair\". On February 26, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the lawsuit, deciding that the plaintiffs did not have standing to sue.\n\nIn an internet broadcast interview with Timothy Ferriss, Daniel Ellsberg compared the current incarnation of FISA to the East German Stasi. Ellsberg stated that the powers which were currently being given to the federal government through this and other recent amendments to FISA since the September 11 attacks opened the door to abuses of power and unwarranted surveillance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39926039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39926039", "title": "Gene Kimmelman", "text": "Gene Kimmelman\n\nGene Kimmelman is a consumer protection advocate who specializes in competition law and United States antitrust law.\n\nKimmelman participated in the Fulbright Program and attended the University of Copenhagen. He received his law degree from the University of Virginia. He is a senior fellow at the University of Colorado Law School.\n\nKimmelman began his public advocacy career as a staff attorney for Public Citizen's Congress Watch. He was an attorney at Consumer Federation of America for ten years. He was chief counsel for two years on the United States Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights. He served as vice president for Federal and International Affairs at Consumers Union, staying with the organization for more than 30 years. He was lead consumer advocate for the Telecommunications Act of 1996. In 2009 he joined the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division when Christine A. Varney chose Kimmelman as a senior adviser. While in the Antitrust Division he oversaw and approved the Comcast NBC merger. He also advocated bringing Apple Inc. to court over price fixing of ebooks and was a major player in opposing the attempted purchase of T-Mobile USA by AT&T. On January 15, 2014, Public Knowledge announced that Kimmelman was appointed as their President and Chief Executive Officer.\n\nKimmelman advocated that cell phone users should proportionally subsidize government communications infrastructure to non-cellphone users, so that services to low-income regions could be improved. He oversaw the merger of Ticketmaster and Livenation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21362691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21362691", "title": "German–Soviet Border and Commercial Agreement", "text": "German–Soviet Border and Commercial Agreement\n\nThe German–Soviet Border and Commercial Agreement, signed on January 10, 1941, was a broad agreement settling border disputes and continuing raw materials and war machine trade between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. The agreement continued the countries' relationship that started in 1939 with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact containing secret protocols dividing Eastern Europe between the Soviet Union and Germany, and the subsequent invasions by Germany and the Soviet Union of that territory. The \"German–Soviet Border and Commercial Agreement\" contained additional secret protocols settling a dispute regarding land in Lithuania previously split between the countries. The agreement continued Nazi–Soviet economic relations that had been expanded by the 1939 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement and the larger 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement.\n\nThe agreement proved to be short lived. Just six months after it was signed, Germany invaded the Soviet Union, and economic relations between the two countries came to an end. The raw materials imported by Germany from the Soviet Union between 1939 and 1941 played a major role in supporting the German war effort against the Soviet Union after 1941.\n\nGermany lacked natural supplies of several key raw materials needed for economic and military operations. German planners in mid-1939 determined that the nation possessed only two to three months' supply of rubber stocks and three to six months of oil stocks. They estimated that, after a planned German attack on Poland and the expected subsequent allied naval blockade, the Soviet Union would become the only potential supplier for many key raw materials needed for a war.\n\nOn August 19, 1939, the Soviet Union and Germany entered German–Soviet Commercial Agreement (1939) providing for the trade of certain German military and civilian equipment in exchange for Soviet raw materials. On August 23, they entered the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which contained secret protocols dividing the states of Northern and Eastern Europe into German and Soviet \"spheres of influence.\"\n\nOne week after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact's signing, the partition of Poland commenced with the German invasion of western Poland, followed by the Soviet Union's invasion of Eastern Poland on September 17, which included coordination with German forces. Three Baltic States described by the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, were given no choice but to sign a \"Pact of defense and mutual assistance\" which permitted the Soviet Union to station troops in them.\n\nEleven days after the Soviet invasion of Eastern Poland, the parties modified the secret protocol of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in an agreement called the \"German–Soviet Boundary and Friendship Treaty\" that contained a \"Secret Additional Protocol.\" Among other things, the agreement allotted Germany a larger part of Poland and transferred Lithuania to the Soviets. However, one piece of Lithuania referred to as the \"Lithuania Strip\", the left bank of river Scheschupe, was to remain a German territory.\n\nHitler's press for a German invasion of Poland in 1939 placed tremendous strain on the German military, which was not scheduled to be ready for total war until 1942 or 1943. In addition, Germany faced critical shortages in oil, rubber and other materials needed to prosecute even just a western offensive. The only remaining state capable of supplying Germany with the requisite raw materials was the Soviet Union. At the same time, the Soviets' demands for manufactured goods, such as German machines, were increasing while its ability to import those goods from outside decreased when many countries ceased trading relations after the Soviet entry into the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. On February 11, 1940, Germany and the Soviet Union entered into the German–Soviet Commercial Agreement, an intricate trade pact in which the Soviet Union would send Germany 650 million Reichmarks in raw materials in exchange for 650 million Reichmarks in machinery, manufactured goods and technology. The trade pact helped Germany to surmount the British blockade of Germany. The Soviet Union became a major supplier of vital materials to Germany, including oil, copper, nickel, chrome, platinum, lumber and grain.\n\nIn mid-June 1940, Soviet NKVD troops raided border posts in Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, resulting in those states' annexation into the Soviet Union, including the whole of Lithuania, including the Scheschupe area, which was to be given to Germany. On June 26, the Soviet Union issued an ultimatum demanding Bessarabia, Bukovina, and the Hertza region from Romania. After the Soviets agreed with Germany that they would limit their claims in Bukovina to northern Bukovina, Germany urged Romania to accept the ultimatum. With France no longer in a position to be the guarantor of the status quo in Eastern Europe, and the Third Reich pushing Romania to make concessions to the Soviet Union, the Romanian government gave in, following Italy's counsel and Vichy France's recent example. After the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia, around 100,000 Volksdeutsche living in Bessarabia began immigrating to Germany.\n\nThat summer, Germany grew even more dependent on Soviet imports. German acquisitions of France, the Netherlands, and Belgium created additional demand while decreasing avenues for indirect supply.\n\nHitler had been considering war with the Soviet Union since July 1940. However, after Germany entered the Axis Pact with Japan and Italy, in October 1940, the Soviet Union explored a possible entry into the Axis themselves. After long discussions and proposals, Germany presented the Soviets with a draft written Axis pact agreement defining the world spheres of influence of the four proposed Axis powers (Japan, Germany, Soviet Union, Italy). Eleven days later, the Soviets presented a Stalin-drafted written counterproposal where they would accept the four power pact, but it included Soviet rights to Bulgaria and a world sphere of influence focus on the area around modern Iraq and Iran. The Soviet offer came concurrently with massive economic efforts to Germany. The Soviets promised by May 11, 1941 the delivery of 2.5 million tons of grain—1 million tons above its current obligations. They also promised full compensation for the Volksdeutsche property claims.\n\nShortly thereafter, Hitler issued a secret directive on the eventual attempts to invade the Soviet Union. Stalin's written draft counter-proposal was ignored, which worsened tensions between the countries.\n\nIn October 1940, German officials estimated that their raw material supplies could comfortably last only though the summer of 1941. The situation was much more dire for rubber, the use for which in boots and tires was vital for any mobile army. German stocks had fallen to only 1,500 tons. The secret protocols had also caused Hitler to be in the humiliating position of having to hurriedly evacuate ethnic German families, the Volksdeutsche, who had lived in Finland and the Baltic countries for centuries, while officially condoning the invasions. The Soviet annexations in Romania caused further strain. While Germany had given the Soviets Bessarabia in the secret protocols, it had not given them Bukovina. Germany wanted the 100,000 tons of grain for which they had previously contracted with Bessarabia, guarantees of German property safety, guarantees for 125,000 Volksdeutsche in Bessarabia and Bukovina, and reassurance that the train tracks carrying Romanian oil would be left alone.\n\nWhile Hitler planned for war in the east, he wanted an additional economic deal to get what he could from the Soviet Union before the invasion, while other German officials wanted such a deal in the hopes that it could change the current anti-Soviet direction of German policy. Meanwhile, because of delivery difficulties and other issues, doubts began to arise about whether the German–Soviet Commercial Agreement would continue to be effective.\n\nFurthermore, talks became heated around the issue of the \"Lithuanian Strip\". When the Soviets occupied the whole of Lithuania on June 15, this included the Strip, which had been promised to Germany in the \"Secret Additional Protocols\" German–Soviet Boundary and Friendship Treaty modifying the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nNegotiations began in Moscow on October 30. German military economic negotiators had hoped for success in the negotiations, in part, because they felt this would strengthen their arguments against Hitler's then increasingly anti-Soviet policy. The parties came closer to agreements on German 38-cm turrets, but the Soviets continued to resist demands for a full reimbursement of Volksdeutsche property. Instead of permitting full indemnification, the Soviets put restrictions on the wealth that the Volksdeutsche could take with them and limited the totals that the Soviets would apply to the Reich's clearing accounts. In November, negotiations proceeded well for Germany on potential modifications for year two of the German-Soviet Commercial Agreement, with the Soviets first increasing their grain offer from 1.2 million tons to 1.5 million, and then up to Germany's demand for 2.5 million tons. Negotiations regarding the \"Lithuanian Strip\" required Hitler's direct intervention, so negotiations were briefly suspended on November 29 awaiting his actions.\n\nThe parties further negotiated over the percentage of nickel each would receive from a Finnish nickel mine at Petsamo and the amount that the Soviets would compensate Germany for their property claims in the Baltics, now occupied by the Soviet Union. Progress was made on the Volksdeutsche property front, with total compensation between 200 million and 350 million Reichsmarks, while the Soviets requested 50 million Reichsmarks for their property claims in German-occupied territories. They reached general agreement on German shipments of 10.5-cm flak cannons, gold, machinery and other items.\n\nHitler desired an arrangement because German planners were estimating that German food, oils and nonferrous metals would run out in 1941, and German rubber supplies could run out almost immediately, especially if Trans-Siberian or blockade-breaker shipments failed to arrive. German allies, such as Italy, were in even worse shape for key raw materials.\n\nKnowing they were preparing for an invasion of the Soviet Union, German negotiators pushed to delay the delivery of German goods beyond the summer of 1941. Suspicious of German delays, in December, the Soviets demanded that all questions pending between the countries be resolved before an agreement could be made. Tensions had already built after Germany had ignored Stalin's letter regarding Axis membership, with negotiators almost coming to blows at one point.\n\nOn January 10, 1941, the German ambassador to Moscow von Schulenburg and Commissar for Foreign Affairs Vyacheslav Molotov signed agreements in Moscow to settle all of the open disputes that the Soviets had demanded.\n\nThe agreement included relatively few substantially new economic elements. It extended trade regulation of the 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement until August 1, 1942 and increased deliveries above the levels of year one of that agreement to 620 to 640 million Reichmarks. The agreement also finalized issues over transit costs for shipped goods, settled issues over the delivery schedules for goods shipped in year two of the German-Soviet Commercial Agreement, settled trading rights in the Baltics and Bessarabia and calculated the compensation for German property interests in the Baltic States now occupied by the Soviets.\n\nBecause of a stronger German negotiation position, German Foreign Ministry official Karl Schnurre concluded that, in economic terms, the agreement was \"the greatest Germany ever concluded, going well beyond the previous year's February agreement.\" The agreement included Soviet commitments to 2.5 million tons of grain shipments and 1 million tons of oil shipments, as well as large amounts of nonferrous and precious metals. German Special Ambassador Karl Ritter, in a state of near-euphoria over Germany's achievement, wrote a directive to all German embassies that \"While Britain and the United States have up to now been unsuccessful in their efforts to come to an agreement with the Soviet Union in any field, the Soviet Union has concluded with Germany, the largest contract ever between two states.\"\n\nThe agreement further covered the migration to Germany within two and a half months of Volksdeutsche, ethnic Germans and German citizens in Soviet-held Baltic and Balkan territories, and the migration to the Soviet Union of ethnic Russians, Baltic and \"White Russian\" \"nationals\" in German-held territories. In many cases, the resulting population transfers of Volksdeutsche were to land previously held by ethnic Poles or others in Nazi-occupied territories.\n\nThe agreement also formally set the border between Germany and the Soviet Union between the Igorka river and the Baltic Sea.\n\nSecret protocols in the new agreement stated that Germany would renounce its claims to the Lithuanian Strip in the \"Secret Additional Protocols\" of the German–Soviet Boundary and Friendship Treaty and that the territory would be regarded as within the Soviet sphere of influence, for which Germany would be paid 7.5 million dollars (31.5 million Reichsmark). Because of currency fluctuation issues, the parties used American dollar demarcations for compensation totals.\n\nOn January 17, 1941, Molotov asked German officials whether the parties could then work out an agreement for entry into the Axis pact. Molotov expressed astonishment at the absence of any answer to the Soviets' November 25 offer to join the Pact. They never received an answer. Germany was already planning its invasion of the Soviet Union. On December 18, 1940, Hitler had signed War Directive No. 21 to the German high command for an operation now codenamed Operation Barbarossa stating: \"The German Wehrmacht must be prepared to crush Soviet Russia in a quick campaign.\" Hitler directed Raeder that Germany would have to take Polyanry and Murmansk at that time to cut off access to aid that would come to the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring both the first period of the 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement (February 11, 1940 to February 11, 1941) and the second (February 11, 1941 until the Pact was broken), Germany received massive quantities of raw materials, including over:\n\nLarge amounts of crude oil were delivered, with German documents in July 1940 already indicating that the Soviets had delivered crude oil at a rate of 150,000 tons a month for five months in 900 German tank cars exclusively reserved for it.\n\nThe trade pact helped Germany to surmount the British blockade of Germany. By June 1940, Soviet imports comprised over 50% of Germany's total imports, and often exceed 70% of total German imports before Hitler broke the pact in June 1941.\n\nOn June 22, 1941, Germany began Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union through the territories that the two countries had previously divided. Despite fears causing the Soviet Union to enter deals with Germany in 1939, that Germany came so close to destroying the Soviet Union was due largely to Soviet actions taken from 1939 to 1941. Without Soviet imports, German stocks would have run out in several key products by October 1941, within three and a half months. Germany would have already run through their stocks of rubber and grain before the first day of the invasion were it not for Soviet imports:\n\nWithout Soviet deliveries of these four major items, Germany could barely have attacked the Soviet Union, let alone come close to victory, even with more intense rationing.\n\nThree years later, Friedrich Werner von der Schulenburg was later executed as one of the conspirators in the July 20, 1944 Plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37973155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37973155", "title": "Glass in green buildings", "text": "Glass in green buildings\n\nA green design concept is to facilitate sustainable use of the resources – energy, water and other materials – all through the complete life cycle of the building including its construction.\n\nGlass is a useful material that has such advantages such as Transparency, Natural Day-lighting, permitting a sky view and Acoustic control, depending on the glazing solution used. Glass is a wholly recyclable material.\nGlass is beloved by architects as well as designers.\n\nGlass can play a role in accomplishing greater indoor environmental quality and when used carefully can improve energy efficiency, however a measured approach needs to be taken to ensure the building loads are not excessively increased due to solar gain.\n\nThe intent of a green building design is to curtail the demand on non-renewable resources, amplify utilization efficiency of these resources when in use, and augment the reuse, recycling, and consumption of renewable resources.\n\nThe design and placement of glass is a fundamental constituent of Green architecture. It permits natural light and puts together the interior of office and residential buildings with the exterior. Natural light enhances productivity in the workplace and helps uphold a healthy environment. It is just as important that glass materials and design endorse energy efficiency.\n\nArchitects use high-performance double-glazed glass, which is laminated or coated, to moderate interior temperatures by controlling heat loss and gain. The coating filters the heat-producing aspects of solar rays. The use of such glass in green buildings is used comprehensively in tropical climates as well as the Middle East.\n\nIn hot climates, solar control glass can be used to minimize solar heat gain and help control glare. The design and placement of glass, known as fenestration, in specific areas of the building crafts the best environment for energy efficiency. In temperate regions, it can be used to equalize solar control with high levels of natural light. In more serene climates, architects employ operable windows as a cost-saving substitute to air-conditioning.\n\nThe augmented use of glass in architecture today makes it crucial to mull over the comfort of a building's occupants. Solar control glass can be an eye-catching characteristic of a building whilst at the same time diminishing, or even eradicating the need for an air-conditioning system, reducing running costs of the building and saving energy. Solar control glass can be particular for any situation where unwarranted solar heat gain is likely to be a bother. E.g. Large façades, glass walkways, atria and conservatories.\n\n"}
{"id": "14287376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14287376", "title": "Harada House", "text": "Harada House\n\nThe Harada House is a historic house located on 3356 Lemon Street in Riverside, California. The house, created in 1884 and built upon by the Harada family, was the focus of a critical application of the California Alien Land Law of 1913, which prevented foreigners who were ineligible for citizenship from owning property. The state of California attempted to seize the property from the family in \"California v. Harada\", but the Haradas ultimately won the case and retained ownership of the house. The house was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1990 and is currently overseen by the Riverside Metropolitan Museum.\n\nThe Harada House is located near downtown Riverside, on the east side of Lemon Street between 3rd and 4th Streets. The house was built in 1884 as a single-story saltbox cottage with recessed shiplap wood siding and a wood shingle roof. The Haradas made a large improvement to the property in 1916 with the addition of a second story, complete with \"four bedrooms, a bathroom, and an open front porch.\" It now stands as an unassuming, two-story frame structure with shiplap siding on its exterior. It is fronted by a two-story porch supported by heavy posts, with the second floor of the porch being enclosed. The original four square chamfered porch support posts have been exchanged with simple heavy posts and the original windows were redecorated by extending their frames. Due to the alterations of the house being used as evidence in the case of California v. Harada, its historical integrity and a majority of its features such as its wallpaper, fixtures, and overall structural design have been preserved.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, Jukichi Harada emigrated from his native home of Japan alongside his wife, Ken, and their firstborn son, Masa Atsu. The Harada family settled in Riverside, California by leasing a boarding house as well as operating a restaurant, and they had three more children, Mine, Sumi, and Yoshizo, during this time. In 1913, the Harada family suffered the loss of their five-year-old son, Tadao, due to the bacterial infection diphtheria caused by their current confined living situation. Jukichi Harada then began searching for a new home that was close to the family's church and his children's school.\n\nThe house was purchased in 1915 by Jukichi Harada in a transaction that formally placed ownership of the house in the hands of his three minor children, who were natural-born United States citizens. This was because Harada and his wife Ken were immigrants from Japan, and were prevented from owning property in California by the California Alien Land Law of 1913. After the purchase, neighboring property owners attempted to drive the Haradas out of the property, without success. State authorities then filed suit against the children (the named owners of the property) to bring it into state ownership in October 1916, and the hearings for the case of \"California v. Harada\" began in December 1916.\n\nAt issue in the case was the right of the American-born Japanese children of Japanese immigrants to own the house, with the case serving as an early constitutional test of the alien land law. During the hearings, the case drew international attention, as the current relations and Gentlemen's Agreement between the U.S. and Japan put a lot of eyes on the trial. The hearings ended in September 1918, with Judge Hugh Craig upholding the right of the children to own the house. Judge Craig stated that, as American citizens, the Harada children had the right to own property regardless of their race, and the state chose not to appeal this decision.\n\nDespite the Haradas being allowed to keep the property, the principle of legislation preventing land ownership by aliens was also confirmed. This set the stage for further legal challenges, as foreigners ineligible for citizenship were still unable to own property.\n\nDuring World War II, the Haradas were among those sent to Japanese internment camps, where both Ken and Jukichi Harada died. During their internment, a Caucasian friend of the family occupied the house, and the family was able to retain ownership. In the years after the war, Sumi Harada, one of the three children, took over the house and boarded other Japanese families who had lost their homes. It is during this period that the upstairs porch was enclosed to provide more living space.\n\nBeginning in the 1970s, Mark Rawitsch, a graduate student from the University of California, begun researching the Harada house. Working alongside Sumi Harada, who was able to preserve a vast quantity of family records, the two were able to prove the house's significance to the City of Riverside, and the house became an official landmark in 1977. It was not until 2004, four years after Sumi Harada died and ownership passed to her brother Harold, that their house was given to the Riverside Metropolitan Museum.\n\nIn November 2016, the American Alliance of Museums notified the Riverside Metropolitan Museum in a reaccreditation letter of the need to come together \"to see measurable plans and evidence of concrete steps taken to address the urgent need to stabilize, then conserve, then open the Harada House.\" A comprehensive structural engineering assessment shall be performed to understand the house's full condition. There are more structural issues that have to be dealt with to fully stabilize it, even though the house has had previous structural work. Overall, the Harada House needs dismantling to understand its original structure and condition, then a full plan of procedures to fully restore the house can be developed.\n\nThrough the process of restoration, the house is currently being made into a cultural and educational site by the Riverside Metropolitan Museum. To create an interpretive center for the site, the museum raised money through donations to purchase a neighboring house, referred to as the Robinson House.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33271681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33271681", "title": "Holder (law)", "text": "Holder (law)\n\nHolder is a term used to any person that has in his custody a promissory note, bill of exchange\nor cheque. It should be entitled in his own name.\nHolder means a person entitled in his own name to the possession of a negotiable instrument and to receive the amount due on it.\n"}
{"id": "21744656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21744656", "title": "Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975", "text": "Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975\n\nThe Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975 is an Act of the United Kingdom Parliament concerning inheritance in England and Wales. It has been amended, for example to take into account civil partnerships.\n\nThis Act makes provision for a court to vary (and extend when appropriate) the distribution of the estate of a deceased person to any spouse, former spouse, child, child of the family or dependant of that person in cases where the deceased person's will or the standard rules of intestacy fail to make \"reasonable financial provision\". Such provision can be derived not just from monetary assets but from any others forming part of the estate or which have been disposed of in the six years prior to the death.\n\nThe Act was introduced to extend the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act 1938, following reports from the Law Commission in 1973 and 1974.\n\nThere are categories under which someone can make an Inheritance Act 1975 claim by virtue of their relationship at death with a person who was domiciled in England and Wales. These categories are:\n\n\nIn each of these categories there are criteria and requirements that must be satisfied for eligibility to claim.\n\nThis Act entirely repealed the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act 1938. Ten other Acts were partly repealed by this Act, those repeals are listed in the Schedule to the Act; further amendments to other legislation are made by section 26 of this Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43473311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43473311", "title": "International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network", "text": "International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network\n\nThe International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network (ICPEN), formerly the International Marketing Supervision Network (IMSN), is a global network of consumer protection authorities which engages in dispute resolution and encourages cooperation between law enforcement agencies for disputes arising from commerce across international borders. Many members are also members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).\n\nDelegates from Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States established the Network in 1992, with participation from representatives of the OECD and the EU. Greece, Italy, and Luxembourg joined the network later that year.\n\nThe ICPEN partners includes organizations from Angola, Suriname, Peru (2013), Kenya and Kosovo (2014).\n\nThe following nations are represented in the network:\n"}
{"id": "8555174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8555174", "title": "Judicial intern", "text": "Judicial intern\n\nIn the United States, a judicial intern (also commonly known as a \"judicial extern\" or \"extern law clerk\" ) is usually a law student or sometimes a recent law school graduate who provides assistance to a judge and/or law clerks in researching and writing issues before the court. Working as a judicial intern allows law students to gain practical legal experience and familiarity with the court operations.\n\nMany judicial interns subsequently choose to work full-time as judicial law clerks immediately after graduation. These judicial \"clerkships\" generally last one year in which the law clerk works closely with the judge in assisting various matters before the court. Judicial clerkships tend to be a valuable experience to an attorney's career because of the work involved in both substantive and procedural issues. In many cases, a clerkship is a critical stepping stone into real practice. Most, if not all, major law firms pay \"clerkship\" bonuses to new associates who have completed a full one year clerkship term. \n\nAmong the most prestigious judicial internships are those in the federal court of appeals, federal district courts, and in the state's supreme court. \n\nA judicial intern's selection process is similar to judicial clerkship positions. Grades, class ranking, and relevant extracurricular activities such as membership in the law school's law review or being a member of the law school's Moot Court Board are common criteria in selecting a judicial intern.\n\nThe American Bar Association Section of Litigation accepts judicial internship applications\nannually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2319362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2319362", "title": "Liberian nationality law", "text": "Liberian nationality law\n\nThe Republic of Liberia was founded by African slaves from North America by the American Colonization Society and returned to establish a republic on African soil. Nationality law is given in the Aliens and Nationality Law of 1973, based on its 1847 Constitution. Current citizenship laws explicitly state being Black as a prerequisite to citizenship. The first constitution allowed for women to transmit their nationality to their children, although multiple citizenship was not permitted nor is it permitted in revisions of the constitution.\n\nLiberia confers nationality solely on the basis of race. Under the current Liberian constitution, only persons of black African origins may obtain citizenship, although Liberian law allows members of other races to hold permanent residency status. Within Liberia itself, the wider implications of the policy are part of a heated debate in which some native Liberians themselves have acknowledged that non-black African permanent residents are crucial contributors to the country's economic activities and innovation system, mainly the wealthy Lebanese community.\n\nFeatures of the first constitution that have been upheld include:\n\n\nThe Liberian legislature was charged with establishing criteria for naturalisation. All applicants must be black Africans to be naturalized.\n\nUnder the terms of Chapter 20 of the Aliens and Nationality Law (based on Article 27(b) of the Constitution), citizenship applies to any \"person who is a Negro, or of Negro descent, born in Liberia and subject to the jurisdiction thereof\" or \"person born outside Liberia whose father (i) was born a citizen of Liberia; (ii) was a citizen of Liberia at the time of the birth of such child, and (iii) had resided in Liberia prior to the birth of such child.” These provisions have been criticised as discriminatory on the basis of both race and sex.\n\nCitizenship through naturalisation is governed by Chapter 21 of the Aliens and Nationality Law. Naturalisation requires a two-step process of first making a declaration of intent to naturalise before a Circuit Court, followed by the actual petition for naturalisation which must be filed between the second and third anniversary dates of the declaration of intent. The eligibility requirements for naturalisation are as follows:\n\nSection 21.31 provides that the non-citizen child whose father is naturalised as a Liberian citizen also becomes a Liberian citizen provided that the child is under 21 years of age and residing in Liberia as a lawful permanent resident at the time of the father's naturalisation. No similar provisions are available for the non-citizen children of women naturalised as Liberian citizens.\n\nSection 21.32 restored the citizenship of women who, under the operation of previous nationality law, had lost citizenship as a result of a marriage to a non-citizen husband but had not acquired any foreign nationality except any automatically conferred by marriage.\n\nLiberian nationality law provides no special considerations for the non-citizen spouse of a Liberian citizen. Such a non-citizen can only acquire Liberian citizenship through the same naturalisation procedure laid out for other non-citizens.\n\nThe circumstances leading to loss of Liberian citizenship are principally described in Chapter 22 of the Aliens and Nationality Law, although circumstances leading to revocation of naturalisation are given in Chapter 21. The following acts are listed in Chapter 22 as effecting a loss of Liberian citizenship:\n\nChapter 21 gives the following as criteria for revocation of naturalisation:\n\nThe provision allowing for revocation of naturalisation as a consequence of residence abroad has been criticised as creating two classes of Liberian citizens and for reducing the capabilities of naturalised Liberians to pursue employment and educational opportunities abroad. The provision for the revocation of a minor's naturalisation following the revocation of the father's naturalisation has been criticised as unfair to the child.\n\nThe Aliens and Nationality Law prohibits dual citizenship except in limited circumstances. This has been criticised as detrimental to links between Liberia and the diaspora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23532606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23532606", "title": "Lineal descendant", "text": "Lineal descendant\n\nA lineal descendant, in legal usage, is a blood relative in the direct line of descent – the children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, etc. of a person. In a legal procedure sense, lineal descent refers to the acquisition of estate by inheritance from grandparent to parent and parent to child, whereas collateral descent refers to the acquisition of estate or real property by inheritance from sibling to sibling, and cousin to cousin.\n\nAdopted children, for whom adoption statutes create the same rights of heirship as children of the body, come within the meaning of the term \"lineal descendants,\" as used in a statute providing for the non-lapse of a devise where the devisee predeceases the testator but leaves lineal descendants.\n\nAmong Native American tribes in the United States, tribal enrollment can be determined by lineal descent, as opposed to a minimum blood quantum. Lineal descent means that anyone directly descended from original tribal enrollees could be eligible for tribal enrollment, regardless of how much native blood they have.\n\nA collateral descendant is a legal term for a relative descended from a brother or sister of an ancestor, and thus a niece, nephew, or cousin.\n"}
{"id": "45351898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45351898", "title": "List of law firms in Uganda", "text": "List of law firms in Uganda\n\nThis is a list of the more notable law firms operating in Uganda. It includes firms based in Uganda alone, and international law firms that have a significant Ugandan practice. All have offices in Kampala.\n\nIn a 2012 IFLR article (\"Q&A: Frontier markets: private equity's next challenge\", \"International Financial Law Review\" (Dec 2012/Jan 2013)), Zain Latif, the principal of pioneer markets investor TLG Capital, singles out Uganda as a country where international private equity investment prospects look good, out of subsahara African countries. There are significant issues in legal and business frameworks in the region, he notes.\n\nAccording to article \"East Africa: Triumvirate of power\", by Harris, Joanne. The Lawyer (Online) (Jun 23, 2014), Uganda is easier for international law firms to enter than Kenya, for example. In Kenya, foreign firms cannot open offices, but rather can only associate with local independent law firms (though a Kenya Law Reform Commission in progress might lead to change). And until recently law firm advertising was banned, and regulation of minimum fee levels has been argued to drive clients to seek legal advice elsewhere. Uganda \"is easier\", as exemplified by South AFrican firm ENSafrica (ENS) launching an office in Kampala, separately from its previous local affiliate Synergy Solicitors & Advocates, in 2013. However, in mid-2014 this was still the only firm to have done that.\n\nOne major deal in Uganda, then the largest private investment in east africe, was:\nThis is a partial list of Ugandan-based law firms.\n\n\nInternational law firms that have had offices in Uganda include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15398147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15398147", "title": "Meritas (law)", "text": "Meritas (law)\n\nFounded in 1990, Meritas is a professional services network consisting of a global alliance of business law firms formerly known as Commercial Law Affiliates. In 2018, the association's membership included over 180 law firms in 90 countries, with more than 7600 lawyers worldwide. Meritas is a non-profit corporation headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Membership is extended by invitation only, and regular recertification by all firms every three years is a requirement of membership. There is a staff of about 15 who handle the organization's administration and review referrals to ensure that the organization's standards are maintained.\n\nJennifer McPhee, writing for \"Canadian Lawyer\", described Meritas as one of the \"more established by-invitation only legal networks that do extensive research before carefully selecting one firm per jurisdiction.\" \"Corporate Counsel Weekly\" also wrote, \"Meritas determines significant business or economic centers where member firms' clients may need local counsel in order to determine where it will have its members,\" and that \"...all member firms provide Meritas with quarterly referral reports, listing all Meritas-originated referrals made to and from the firm for the stated period and cooperate in evaluating specific matters.\" If a firm does not receive good marks, its membership with the organization may be terminated.\n\n"}
{"id": "57887169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57887169", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Ivory Coast)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Ivory Coast)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Human Rights of Ivory Coast is a department of the government of Ivory Coast. According to statute, the ministry audits the judicial hierarchy via its Central Administration unit, and executes a rating and appraisal system to determine which judicial officer will advance in rank. The ministry also has other responsibilities such as overseeing the National Chamber of Bailiffs of Ivory Coast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2243218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243218", "title": "Misprision of felony", "text": "Misprision of felony\n\nMisprision of felony is an offence under the common law of England that is no longer active in many common law countries. Where it was or is active, it is classified as a misdemeanour. It consists of failing to report knowledge of a felony to the appropriate authorities. Exceptions were made for close family members of the felon and where the disclosure would tend to incriminate him of that offence or another.\n\nWith the development of the modern law, this crime has been discarded in many jurisdictions, and is generally only applied against persons placed in a special position of authority or responsibility. In this case, the offence of misfeasance in public office or malfeasance in public office may be considered instead. For example, corrections officers who stand idly by while drug trafficking occurs within the prison may be prosecuted for this crime. \n\nIt has been abolished in England and Wales and in Scotland\n(as part of the criminal law reforms that abolished the distinction between misdemeanour and felony), in Australia, Ireland and in Northern Ireland, but has often been replaced by a statutory offence.\n\n\"Misprision of felony\" is still an offense under United States federal law after being codified in 1909 under :\nWhoever, having knowledge of the actual commission of a felony cognizable by a court of the United States, conceals and does not as soon as possible make known the same to some judge or other person in civil or military authority under the United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both. This offense, however, requires active concealment of a known felony rather than merely failing to report it.\n\nIf one knows that one is a target of a federal investigation, it is illegal under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to erase one's browser history intentionally. Khairullozhan Matanov was prosecuted for erasing computer records about his friends, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev; he pleaded guilty to a lesser included offense in 2015.\n\nThe federal misprision of felony statute is usually used only in prosecutions against defendants who have a special duty to report a crime, such as a government official.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47831783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47831783", "title": "Mitratech Holdings Inc.", "text": "Mitratech Holdings Inc.\n\nMitratech Holdings Inc., is a wholly owned subsidiary of TA Associates, a multi-national legal information services company based in the United States. It offers software and services for in-house legal professionals and companies.\n\nThe company now known as Mitratech Holdings Inc., has been in the enterprise legal management business since its founding in Los Angeles in 1987. It is now headquartered in Austin, TX. Initially, it began as a law practice management company to assist legal professionals and companies in all states and was one of the early technology company to offer a web-based case management software for the legal industry. With its first successful product, the company started working on developing legal management software and services for departments of varied sizes and responsibilities, in order to automate the entire law process in legal departments. The company gained major clients in the United States and Europe due to its paperless solutions.\n\nAs of 2015, Mitratech focused on delivering matter management, spend management, e-Billing, legal hold, and GRC technologies to serve general counsel, legal administrators and attorneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36796714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36796714", "title": "Mohamed v President of the Republic of South Africa", "text": "Mohamed v President of the Republic of South Africa\n\nMohamed v President of the Republic of South Africa, [2001] ZACC 18, is a 2001 decision of the Constitutional Court of South Africa dealing with the legality of the South African government's actions in handing over Khalfan Khamis Mohamed to United States authorities. The court ruled that the South African government may not extradite a suspect who may face the death penalty without seeking an assurance from the receiving country that the suspect will not be sentenced to death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5620346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620346", "title": "Mudginberri dispute", "text": "Mudginberri dispute\n\nThe Mudginberri abattoir was the focus of a major industrial relations dispute from 1983 to 1985 in Australia's Northern Territory which was notable for being the first successful use of legal sanctions against a union since the gaoling of Victorian Tramways union leader Clarrie O'Shea in 1969. The successful prosecution of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union (AMIEU) under section 45D of the Trade Practices Act (Secondary boycott provisions) was seen by the National Farmers Federation and the developing New Right in and outside the Liberal Party of Australia as a breakthrough in a campaign to break the power of the unions and introduce contract employment.\n\nThe Mudginberri station is some 250 km east of Darwin along the Arnhem Highway in the Northern Territory of Australia. The abattoir was built in the early 1970s to take advantage of the large numbers of feral buffalo in the area.\n\nThe country itself is mainly low-lying black soil country between the East Alligator and South Alligator Rivers with the Arnhem Land escarpment to the east. The station's abattoir is about 15 kilometres from Jabiru to the south and much the same distance from the Ranger Uranium Mine to the north.\n\nThe Australian Meat Industry was in serious decline by the 1980s, with 35 abattoir closures across Australia between 1979 and 1982. Cattle numbers were also being cut in an attempt to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis from the cattle herd. This also meant the reduction in the buffalo herd which Mudginberri primarily processed for the export trade.\n\nIn the early 1980s of the dozen abattoirs operating in the NT, only Katherine and Darwin abattoirs were bound by the industrial award, while other abattoirs were hiring workers on individual contracts without union involvement. Most of those employed in the Mudginberri abbatoir were itinerant workers who came through each year to make good money during the dry season, whereas the larger Katherine meatworks consisted of mainly permanent residents.\n\nWorkers were not employed directly by the abattoir owner Jan Pendarvis, but by 3 contractors engaged by the owner. The contractors had most to lose from an award based tally system according to union accounts. According to AMIEU official Allan Anderson \"the reason why he (Pendarvis) succeeded was that he employed three contractors and the three contractors were viewed by the Court as being the employer, but in the essence they were really J Pendarvis's employees and J Pendarvis was, of course, the third party that was in fact effected [sic] by that industrial dispute. And, as such, they found against us that we had to pay the damages that he had incurred during that industrial dispute...\" \n\nMudginberri was a member of the Northern Territory Cattlemen's Association which was, in turn, a member of the National Farmers' Federation (NFF). The Meat and Allied Trades Federation of Australia (MATFA), a representative body of meat processors, and the NFF chose to become involved in the dispute.\n\nPaul Houlihan, Industrial Director of the NFF claimed the NFF wanted to get involved in the dispute due to \n\"the extreme inefficiencies that exist in most parts of the meat processing industry, due to the enormously powerful position enjoyed in the industry by the AMIEU, and, in particular, because of the most common piecework method employed, that is the unit tally system.\"\n\nIn 1983, the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union (AMIEU) served a log of claims on Mudginberri and on all other abattoirs in the Northern Territory, seeking a unit tally system to be set up (a log of claims was served on employers when a union wished to create a new award for the industry) on award conditions similar to that operating at the Katherine abattoir.\n\nIn July 1984, the AMIEU increased pressure on the dispute by setting up picket lines at two Northern Territory abattoirs — Point Stuart and Mudginberri. A settlement of this dispute led to a withdrawal of the picket with each side paying its own costs.\n\nHowever, hearings continued on the details of the industrial award that would be made for abattoirs. A decision on the award was handed down in April 1985 by Commissioner McKenzie which specified minimum award standards but also included a clause upholding individual non-union contracts negotiated without union involvement, which the union would not consider.\n\nThe employees at Mudginberri had negotiated their own employment contracts without any union involvement. The union was concerned that wages and conditions at Mudginberri did not comply with standard award entitlements and that essentially \"the meat industry was a piecework industry whereby you're paid on the amount of work that you did\" and \"that employees were in fact being dudded on that particular situation by as much as $400 and $500 a week. Because they were carrying out far greater productivity, certainly being paid more, but had they been employed under the worst award that we had any where in Australia they would have been about $400 a week ahead.\" according Anderson. But the Mudginberri workers claimed they were happy with their contracts and most refused to support the picket. Most of the workforce were members of the AMIEU but had little contact with the union.\n\nPicket lines were established on 9 May 1985 at the Victoria River, Mudginberri and Alice Springs abattoirs. Almost unanimously (there were a couple of exceptions that joined the picket line), workers at Mudginberri defied the union instructions and continued to work. Many of the pickets at Mudginberri were from the Katherine abattoir which had failed to open that season with management citing unavailability of stock due to dry conditions, but a conflicting report in the \"National Farmer\" said that cattle producers had voted to boycott Katherine meatworks while it \"continues to side with unreasonable AMIEU claims\". The NT Cattlemen's Association denied such a vote had been taken. The picket received ACTU endorsement on 17 May.\n\nCommonwealth meat inspectors refused to cross the picket line and were suspended without pay, thus stopping production at the abattoir. Work could not resume until 24 June when the NT Government provided inspectors, however state inspectors could only authorise the meat for domestic consumption at half the price of meat graded for export.\n\nAccording to Paul Houlihan from the NFF, the Commonwealth meat inspectors usually resided in accommodation on Mudginberri Station, but at the request of the inspectors at the start of 1985 that they should stay in the 'closed' uranium mining township of Jabiru, necessitating appropriate authorisation and changes to regulations. Houlihan claims this was planned months in advance so that the inspectors would have to face crossing a picketline, than already being behind it. \n\nThe Industrial Relations Commission held conferences but failed to stop the dispute. As a result, Jay Pendarvis, the owner of Mudginberri abattoir, obtained an injunction under Section 45D (Secondary boycott provisions) of Australia's Trade Practices Act preventing the AMIEU from picketing the abattoir. The AMIEU refused to comply with the Federal Court injunction to lift the picket and was initially fined $44,000. On 12 July the union had its assets seized for non-payment of this fine. This action resulted in 20,000 meatworkers going on strike on 25 July. Two further national strikes were held on 7 August and 30 August which included maritime and transport workers.\n\nDuring August Prime Minister Bob Hawke and Industrial Relations Minister Ralph Willis attempted to have meetings between the disputing parties in Canberra but Pendarvis, the MATFA and the NFF, refused to attend saying the dispute was sub judice. On 12 August the employers faxed their terms of settlement for the dispute to the Prime Minister which included removal of all picket lines, a 2-year ban on strikes, and pay $2.5million damages to Pendarvis as well as all accumulated legal costs.\n\nAMIEU organiser Jack O'Toole reflected in 1995: \"At that stage we knew that we weren't dealing with people who were looking for a settlement so much as an overwhelming victory\". The AMEIU by this stage were interested in finding a compromise to the dispute and on 27 August lodged with the Arbitration Commission an application to vary the McKenzie award to allow union involvement in contract negotiations and strengthening the preference for unionists clause. So that the case could be heard before the full bench of the Arbitration Commission, all picket lines were lifted in early September. Hearings continued in November and December with a decision handed down on 27 March 1986 which granted the union two concessions: any contract arrangements had to be notified to the union and the decision had no implications beyond the meat industry in the NT.\n\nThe dispute had come at the expense of a four-month picket line and a total of $144,000 in fines against the union and a pending lawsuit for damages under Section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. The Mudginberri dispute took 27 court cases and two years of litigation. Although the NFF and MAFTA worked together during the dispute, once a settlement was reached MAFTA informed the ACTU it would not take part in any damages claim as it was only concerned with the health of its industry and not with an ideological battle with the trade union movement.\n\nJay Pendarvis, the Manager of Mudginberri Station, was eventually awarded $1,759,444 damages. In subsequent interviews Pendarvis claimed he was not anti-union but that he believed the union was misusing its power by trying to impose an unworkable award on his business. Half way through 1985 Pendarvis had second thoughts about the dispute and the NFF tactics and said: \"It became a power thing: 'We're going to destroy the unions, but was convinced to remain committed to the NFF strategy by senior officials of the NFF.\n\nIn 1986 it was revealed in \"Business Review Weekly\" that the Country Liberal Party Government of the Northern Territory facilitated loans to Pendarvis with the proviso that he sue the union for damages. The union was able to survive financially through levies placed upon membership, and while the defeat briefly united members, the union was ultimately weakened as more experienced union officials resigned from exhaustion, according to union organisers Pat Roughan and Jack O'Toole.\n\nIn 1987, the Katherine abattoir reopened and began operating on a contract system with about half the previous workforce. Union activists were blacklisted from employment where previously the abattoir was unionised and working under award conditions. Mudginberri reportedly shut its doors within two seasons.\n\nIan McLachlan, who was president of the National Farmers Federation (NFF) during the dispute and later a minister in the Howard Government, wrote that Mudginberri \"turned the tide\" against union power and \"changed the nature of industrial relations in Australia\". John Howard, then leader of the Opposition, urged the creation of many more Mudginberris. Barrister for Pendarvis and the NFF was Peter Costello, who was to later co-found the H. R. Nicholls Society, act for Dollar Sweets in the Dollar Sweets dispute and go on to become the federal treasurer in the Howard Government and a prominent architect of the Howard Government Industrial Relations reforms.\n\nBy 1998 there were no functioning abattoirs in the Northern Territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "12067892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12067892", "title": "NanoMemPro IPPC Database", "text": "NanoMemPro IPPC Database\n\nThe NanoMemPro IPPC database focus the operations where membranes are introduced as Best Available Techniques in the industrial areas addressed by the IPPC Directive.\nThe Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive was adopted by the European Council on September 24, 1996. It defines the obligations with which highly polluting industrial and agricultural activities must comply.\n\nIt establishes a procedure for authorizing these activities: a permit is issued if certain environmental conditions are met.\nThe IPPC Directive aims to minimise pollution from various sources throughout the European Union (it concerns both new and existing installations). To do so, all industrial installations covered by the Annex I of the IPPC Directive (see ) are required to obtain an authorisation (permit) from the authorities in the EU countries before they are allowed to operate. The permits granted must be based on the concept of Best Available Techniques (or BAT).\n\nThe IPPC Directive covers 33 industrial sectors where in almost all of them membrane processes appear as BAT, not only as an end-of-pipe solution for effluent treatment but mainly as a part of the industrial production processes.\nMembrane process integration play a crucial role, depending on the industrial sector in which they are integrated, and these roles may be:\nThe IPPC Database was designed by the NanoMemPro Network of Excellence to focus the operations where membranes are introduced as BAT in the industrial areas addressed by the IPPC Directive documents.\nThe Database built allows any user to search information upon the following criteria:\n\nThe information states which membrane processes are defined as a BAT in a given industrial sector and what is the application/purpose of that membrane process(es).\nWhen accessing the Database, one can enter a username and password. This password insertion is used only by the database manager. To view and search the information of the database, just press the OK button, ignoring the password insertion procedure.\nThis IPPC Database is available in the NanoMemPro website.\n"}
{"id": "2430679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2430679", "title": "National Security Whistleblowers Coalition", "text": "National Security Whistleblowers Coalition\n\nThe National Security Whistleblowers Coalition (NSWBC), founded in 2004 by former FBI translator Sibel Edmonds in league with over 50 former and current United States government officials from more than a dozen agencies, is an independent, nonpartisan alliance of whistleblowers who have come forward to address weaknesses of US security agencies.\n\nNSWBC is made up of current and former employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Department of Energy (DOE), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Federal Reserve, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) (including the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)), the National Security Agency (NSA), the Department of State, and others. The organization has collectively testified before Congressional committees in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate to demand that Congress act to end government retaliation against those who expose corruption, misdeeds and errors in the realm of U.S. national security.\n\nThe NSWBC aims to aid and abet whistleblowers seeking to inform authorities of security vulnerabilities of US intelligence agencies, to counteract the intimidation of employees and the undermining of whistleblower credibility, and to uncover government waste, fraud, abuse and criminal conduct. The coalition is only for whistleblowers who have raised national security issues, not for government workers who have complaints that they were individually discriminated against or wrongly passed over for a promotion.\n\nOn March 15, 2005, H.R. 1317, the Federal Employees Protection of Disclosures Act, was introduced by Rep. Todd Platts R-PA as a bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. It was redrafted to incorporate some minor phrasing adjustments and was reintroduced as H.R. 3097 on June 28, 2005. It was immediately referred to the House Committee on Government Reform, but as of mid-2007, no further action had been taken on the redraft.\n\nOn June 29, 2006, H.R. 1317 was referred to the House Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and to the House Committee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Management, Integration, and Oversight. Both committees granted extensions for further consideration of the bill, with the last one being a three-week extension granted on November 17, 2006 by the House Committee on Armed Services. The Homeland Security committee was discharged the same day. As of mid-2007, no further action had been taken.\n\nIf enacted as law, the bill would clarify the categories of disclosure covered by the Whistleblower Protection Act, reduce the standard of proof of illicit activity that a whistleblower needs to have before they are entitled to the law's protection, outlaw non-disclosure agreements for federal employees that do not include exemptions for whistleblowers, or that limit other disclosures allowed under open government legislation, and increase the burden of proof needed to discipline managers who allegedly retaliate against those making disclosures. The bill also calls for a study of security clearance revocations to be conducted and a report on the study delivered to the House Committee on Government Reform.\n\nIn a letter to the NSWBC, Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) praised the coalition and pledged his support for legislation protecting national security whistleblowers:\n\nLet me state unequivocally that all federal government workers deserve whistleblower protection, none more so than national security whistleblowers. ...Our own government has concluded that they can be trusted to work on the most important law enforcement and intelligence projects in today's post-9/11 environment. These officials are critical to our national defense. …For these reasons, I favor expanding the Whistleblower Protection Act to cover these employees and contractors as fully as possible, as well as making the retaliatory revocation of a security clearance a prohibited personnel practice.\n\nMembers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2212054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212054", "title": "Nisab", "text": "Nisab\n\nIn Sharia (Islamic Law) niṣāb (نِصاب) is the minimum amount that a Muslim must have before being obliged to zakat. Several hadith have formulas for calculating niṣāb, the most prominent of which declares that \"No Zakāt is due on wealth until one year passes\". Zakat is determined based on the amount of wealth acquired; the greater one's assets, the greater the tax. Unlike income tax in secular states niṣāb is not subject to special exemptions.\n\nIn Islam, niṣāb is 20 dinārs for gold and 200 dirhams for silver based on the original 1 to 10 exchange rate. The dinār is a gold coin weighing one mithqal (4.25 grams) and the dirḥam is a silver coin weighing 0.7 mithqal (2.975 grams). The niṣāb is applicable to the cumulative stock of dinārs, dirḥam and any other zakatable valuables, such as merchandise that has been in store for at least one year. As long as the total value of the zakatable valuables exceeds the value of the niṣāb, zakat must be paid.\n\nThe value of the niṣāb is calculated in dinār coins and dirḥam coins. The relation between 20 dinārs and 200 dirḥams which is part of the definition of niṣāb reflects the contemporary exchange value between the dinār and the dirḥam of 1 to 10 in the early days of Islam. In later times the exchange rate between the two Sharia coins changed according to market values, and so exchange rates of 1 to 11 and 1 to 12 are seen in early fiqh literature. This exchange rate has varied even more in the last few centuries. The shift in exchange rate meant that in later times 20 dinārs became more expensive in market value than 200 dirḥams. Despite this the definition of niṣāb has not been altered throughout Islamic history, and therefore a choice is created between the value of 20 dinārs and the value of 200 dirḥams. Both values are accepted in Shariah, and so one can choose to pay the value of either of them.\n\nThe value of one dinār is not identical to the value of the gold content of one dinār, and likewise with the silver in a dirḥam. There is also difference in value between dinārs depending on their quality and their acceptability. Although all gold or silver coins and products must be exchanged by weight and not by value in order to prevent riba al-fadl, different coins may have different market values as is reflected in the fiqh literature when it is said that some coins are not popular (makruhi)[See Imam Malik's al-Muwatta]. The value of the dinār and dirḥam are thus different from their respective gold and silver content. This represents a problem to modern Muslims because dinār and dirḥam coins are difficult to obtain.\n\nSome modern scholars have accepted that since dinārs and dirḥams are no longer readily available the best solution is to calculate the niṣāb using a mithqal of pure gold as a reference. Although this is not an exact calculation it is considered a valid approximation given current circumstances.\n\nIn some countries Muslim communities have minted their own dinārs and dirḥams following the original standards. These coins are used both as a method for general payment and specifically to pay zakat.\n\nIn order to be liable for zakat a Muslim must possess wealth in excess of the niṣāb level for one lunar year (354 days). This year begins on the date the wealth is obtained; so long as the assets are in its owner's possession at the beginning and end of the lunar year the zakat tax is applicable. In many modern societies niṣāb is considered equivalent to a governmentally determined \"poverty threshold.\"\n"}
{"id": "11652270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11652270", "title": "Not-To-Exceed", "text": "Not-To-Exceed\n\nThe Not-To-Exceed (NTE) standard promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ensures that heavy-duty truck engine emissions are controlled over the full range of speed and load combinations commonly experienced in use. NTE establishes an area (the \"NTE zone\") under the torque curve of an engine where emissions must not exceed a specified value for any of the regulated pollutants. The NTE test procedure does not involve a specific driving cycle of any specific length (mileage or time). Rather it involves driving of any type that could occur within the bounds of the NTE control area, including operation under steady-state or transient conditions and under varying ambient conditions. Emissions are averaged over a minimum time of thirty seconds and then compared to the applicable NTE emission limits.\n\nNTE standards were created by the EPA as a result of a consent decree between the EPA and several major diesel engine manufacturers. These manufacturers included Caterpillar, Cummins, Detroit Diesel, Mack, Mack's parent company Renault Vehicles Industriels, and Volvo Truck Corp. These manufacturers were accused of violating the Clean Air Act by installing devices that defeat emission controls. As part of the resulting consent decree settlement with the EPA, these manufacturers were assessed heavy fines and were subjected to new emissions standards which included NTE.\n\nWhen all of the following conditions are simultaneously met for at least 30 seconds, and engine is considered to be operating in the NTE zone. \n\nThe NTE test, as defined in CFR 86.1370-2007, establishes an area (NTE control area) under the torque curve of an engine where emissions must not exceed a specified emission cap for a given pollutant. The NTE cap is set at 1.25 times the FTP emission limit as described in the subsection above. For 2005 model year heavy-duty engines, the NTE emission cap for NMHC plus NOx is 1.25 times 2.5 grams per brake horsepower-hour, or 3.125 grams per brake horsepower-hour. The basic NTE control area for diesel engines has three basic boundaries on the engine's torque and speed map. The first is the upper boundary that is represented by an engine's maximum torque at a given speed. The second boundary is 30 percent of maximum torque. Only operation above this boundary is included in the NTE control area. The third boundary is determined based on the lowest engine speed at 50 percent of maximum power and highest engine speed at 70 percent of maximum power. This engine speed is considered the \"15 percent operational engine speed\". The fourth boundary is 30% of maximum power \n\nA controversial issue is the applicability of the NTE limits to the real-world driving. In order for NTE standards to apply, the engine needs to remain within the NTE zone (limits include operation at a minimum of 30% of rated power) for at least 30 seconds. Concerns arose that performing this action could prove to be difficult, as each time the driver removes the foot from the accelerator pedal, or shifts gears on vehicles with manual transmission, the engine leaves the NTE zone.\n\nIn urban or suburban driving, this happens relatively often, to the point that NTE standards are applicable only a very small portion of the operation \nor, in some cases, not at all. The probability of the engine remaining within the NTE zone for over 30 seconds also decreases with the advent of high-power engines. For example, if the power required to maintain a motorcoach or an over-the-road truck at highway cruising speed is somewhere around , the probability that a engine will consistently operate at loads above 30%, without \"dips\" to lower power levels, can be relatively small.\n\nThese concerns were confirmed by studies carried out by West Virginia University (WVU) under the Consent Decrees. WVU found that \"remaining for 30 seconds within the NTE zone can be quite difficult. The resulting low NTE availability poses a problem as many measurements within the NTE area have to be rejected along with those from outside the NTE area. The question arises if in this way all real-life emissions are sufficiently 'well reflected' in the NTE test results\"\n\nA second issue of concern in the same vein is a case when an engine is compliant within the NTE zone, but exhibits elevated NOx at power levels just outside the NTE zone, or at idle. For reasons such as this the Working Group On Off Cycle Emissions is studying whether an extension of the NTE zone is rational as they ponder if there are spots on the engine map (outside of the NTE zone) that have a significant contribution in real life emissions. Their preliminary findings echo those of WVU as they found that the time of engine operation in the NTE zone is rather low.\n\nAccording to the US EPA there are technical limitations of NTE under limited operating conditions which have caused the EPA to \"carve-out\" (see graphs above) certain portions of the NTE zone to allow for these deficiencies. Excerpts as follows:\n\nNTE zone was defined by a desire to have a homogeneous emissions limit. Carve-outs within that zone exclude certain areas of operation from NTE consideration or limit how much emissions from that operation can contribute to an NTE result, deficiencies allow temporary exceedences of the NTE standards due to technical limitations under limited operating conditions. The idea is not to hold the manufacturer responsible for NTE compliance during modes where the engine is not capable of operating or where it is not technically feasible to meet the NTE standards. \n\nPM-specific region is \"carved out\" of the NTE control area. The PM specific area of exclusion is generally in the area under the torque curve, where engine speeds are high and engine torque is low, and can vary in shape depending upon several speed-related criteria and calculations detailed in the regulations. Controlling PM in this range of operation presents fundamental technical challenges which we believe can not be overcome in the 2004 time frame. Specifically, the cylinder pressures created under these high speed and low load conditions are often insufficient to prevent lube oil from being ingested into the combustion chamber. High levels of PM emissions are the result. Furthermore, we do not believe that these engines spend a significant portion of their operating time in this limited speed and torque range \n\nIn 2001, five separate lawsuits were filed against the US EPA by the Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) and several individual trucking industry entities (such as International Truck and Engine Corporation). Each of those lawsuits challenged the legality and technological feasibility of certain engine emission control standards in EPA regulations now referred to as NTE requirements. In their challenge, EMA stated that to determine whether an engine meets a primary emission standard, engines are tested and assessed using a standardized 20-minute emissions laboratory test known as the Federal Test Procedure. The NTE, by contrast, has no specified test procedure and potentially could apply over an almost infinite number of test conditions. This, in the manufacturers' view, made it virtually impossible to ensure total compliance with the NTE—since there is no real or practical way to test an engine under all conceivable conditions—and so made the NTE both unlawful (the CAA authorizes EPA to adopt engine standards AND accompanying test procedures) and technically infeasible.\n\nOn June 3, 2003, the parties finalized a settlement of their disputes pertaining to the NTE standards. The parties agreed upon a detailed outline for a future regulation that would require a manufacturer-run heavy-duty in-use NTE testing (\"HDIUT\") program for diesel-fueled engines and vehicles. One section of the outline stated:\n\nThe NTE Threshold will be the NTE standard, including the margins built into the existing regulations, plus additional margin to account for in-use measurement accuracy. This additional margin shall be determined by the measurement processes and methodologies to be developed and approved by EPA/CARB/EMA. This margin will be structured to encourage instrument manufacturers to develop more and more accurate instruments in the future.\n\nThe ultimate objective of the new HDIUT program is to allow for a significant streamlining of engine certification if a truly robust in-use emissions testing program proves feasible and cost effective. Time-consuming and expensive laboratory assessments of engines could then give way to real-world, real-time emissions assessments that efficiently provides more relevant data.\n\nBasically, the HDIUT is an industry agreed to manufacturer run, in-use, on-road testing program. It builds upon the original NTE standard. It is designed to focus on compliance in the real world, and relies on emissions testing, utilizing Portable Emissions Measurement Systems (PEMS) with NOx, HC, CO and PM being the pollutants to be measured. Measurement Accuracy Margins are being established to account for the emissions measurement variability associated with the PEMS in-use.\n\n"}
{"id": "8314613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8314613", "title": "Parental consent", "text": "Parental consent\n\nParental consent laws (also known as parental involvement laws) in some countries require that one or more parents consent to or be notified before their minor child can legally engage in certain activities.\n\nParental consent may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "13576578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13576578", "title": "Parents' rights movement", "text": "Parents' rights movement\n\nThe Parents' rights movement is a civil rights movement whose members are primarily interested in issues affecting fathers, mothers and children related to family law, including child custody. \n\nParents' rights advocates claim that many parents' parental rights are unnecessarily terminated, and that children are separated from fathers and mothers and adopted through the actions of family courts and government social service agencies seeking to meet their own targets, rather than looking at the merits of each case. Parental rights activists state that employees of the Massachusetts Department of Social Services (DSS) take children away from their parents without cause. They add that these employees, who they assert have improperly received immunity from the Massachusetts Supreme Court, threaten mothers with the loss of their children to coerce them into divorcing their husbands and attending support groups. They state that these support groups serve the dual purpose of allowing the associates of the DSS employees to receive additional government funding for running the support groups, and allowing the DSS employees to gain information used to take children away from their parents. Parental rights advocates state that abuse of power has occurred and that vested interest has played a role.\n\nIn June 2007, UK parents' rights advocates criticized the local court, claiming that it was treating children as adoptable commodities, that decisions were made on lack of evidence and perjury, and that courtroom secrecy was harming families and children. In July 2017, a judge ruled that Gloucestershire County Council had removed a baby from its vulnerable mother unlawfully.\n\nThe issue of parents' rights has also arisen in connection with disagreements over medical treatment. Two recent high-profile cases in the UK are the Charlie Gard case in 2017 and the Ashya King case in 2014. In both cases there was disagreement between parents and doctors about the best course of treatment and the cases were taken to court. This has led to an impassioned debate about who should have the final say - parents or doctors.\n\n"}
{"id": "15463897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15463897", "title": "Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy", "text": "Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy\n\nThe Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy is a 1960 OECD Convention on liability and compensation for damage caused by accidents occurring while producing nuclear energy. The convention entered into force on 1 April 1968 and has been amended by protocols in 1964, 1982, and 2004. The convention, as amended by the 1964 and 1982 protocols have 16 parties. The 2004 protocol has not entered into force. Austria and Luxembourg signed the convention but have not ratified it. Switzerland deposited its instruments of ratification for the convention as amended by the 2004 protocol. The convention will enter into force for this country once the 2004 protocol enters into force.\n\nThe convention:\n\nA list of Parties to the convention (as amended by the 1964 and 1982 protocols), the 2004 protocol, as well as the Brussels protocol and the Joint protocol is shown below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38529144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38529144", "title": "Reinhard Merkel", "text": "Reinhard Merkel\n\nReinhard Merkel (born 16 April 1950) is a professor in criminal law and philosophy of law and a retired West German swimmer. He competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in the 200 m and 400 m individual medley and finished in sixth place in the latter event.\n\nAfter retiring from swimming he studied law at the University of Bochum and the Ruprecht-Karls University in Heidelberg. He also studied law, philosophy and literature at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, where he passed his state examination. After that he worked as a researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Social Law and at the Institute of Philosophy in Munich.\n\nBetween 1988 and 1990 he was an editor of the newspaper \"Die Zeit\". In 1991 he won the Jean Améry Award for Essay Writing.\n\nAfter defending his PhD in 1993 in Munich and habilitation in 1997 at the Goethe University Frankfurt he worked as university professor of law in Bielefeld, Rostock and since 2000 in Hamburg.\n\nHe wrote a number of books and other publications discussing neuroethics, bioethics and embryonic stem cell manipulations. Since April 2008, he has been a member of The Hinxton Group: An International Consortium on Stem Cells, Ethics and Law, which is based in Hinxton, UK, and Baltimore, USA. In January 2011 he was elected to the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina. He is a member of the German Ethics Council for the term 2012–2016. He argues that the Russian military intervention in Crimea was an illegal support of a Secession and not an Annexation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3746801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746801", "title": "Religious police", "text": "Religious police\n\nReligious police is the police force responsible for the enforcement of religious norms and associated religious laws.\n\nWhile most police enforcing religious norms in the modern world are Islamic and found in Muslim countries such as Saudi Arabia or Iran, some are not (for example in Vietnam, the religious security police monitor “extremist” religious groups, detaining and interrogating suspected Dega Protestants or Ha Mon Catholics).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25740", "title": "Robert E. Lee", "text": "Robert E. Lee\n\nRobert Edward Lee (January 19, 1807 – October 12, 1870) was an American and Confederate soldier, best known as a commander of the Confederate States Army. He commanded the Army of Northern Virginia in the American Civil War from 1862 until his surrender in 1865. A son of Revolutionary War officer Henry \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee III, Lee was a top graduate of the United States Military Academy and an exceptional officer and military engineer in the United States Army for 32 years. During this time, he served throughout the United States, distinguished himself during the Mexican–American War, and served as Superintendent of the United States Military Academy.\n\nWhen Virginia declared its secession from the Union in April 1861, Lee chose to follow his home state, despite his desire for the country to remain intact and an offer of a senior Union command. During the first year of the Civil War, Lee served as a senior military adviser to Confederate President Jefferson Davis. Once he took command of the main field army in 1862 he soon emerged as a shrewd tactician and battlefield commander, winning most of his battles, all against far superior Union armies. Lee's strategic foresight was more questionable, and both of his major offensives into Union territory ended in defeat. Lee's aggressive tactics, which resulted in high casualties at a time when the Confederacy had a shortage of manpower, have come under criticism in recent years. Lee surrendered his entire army to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. By this time, Lee had assumed supreme command of the remaining Southern armies; other Confederate forces swiftly capitulated after his surrender. Lee rejected the proposal of a sustained insurgency against the Union and called for reconciliation between the two sides.\n\nIn 1865, after the war, Lee was paroled and signed an oath of allegiance, asking to have his citizenship of the United States restored. Lee's application was misplaced; as a result, he did not receive a pardon and his citizenship was not restored. In 1865, Lee became president of Washington College (later Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Virginia; in that position, he supported reconciliation between North and South. Lee accepted \"the extinction of slavery\" provided for by the Thirteenth Amendment, but publicly opposed racial equality and granting African Americans the right to vote and other political rights. Lee died in 1870. In 1975, the U.S. Congress posthumously restored Lee's citizenship effective June 13, 1865.\n\nLee opposed the construction of public memorials to Confederate rebellion on the grounds that they would prevent the healing of wounds inflicted during the war. Nevertheless, after his death, Lee became an icon used by promoters of \"Lost Cause\" mythology, who sought to romanticize the Confederate cause and strengthen white supremacy in the South. Later in the 20th century, particularly following the civil rights movement, historians reassessed Lee; his reputation fell based on his failure to support rights for freedmen after the war, and even his strategic choices as a military leader fell under scrutiny.\n\nLee was born at Stratford Hall Plantation in Westmoreland County, Virginia, to Major General Henry Lee III (Light Horse Harry) (1756–1818), Governor of Virginia, and his second wife, Anne Hill Carter (1773–1829). His birth date has traditionally been recorded as January 19, 1807, but according to the historian Elizabeth Brown Pryor, \"Lee's writings indicate he may have been born the previous year.\"\n\nOne of Lee's great grandparents, Henry Lee I, was a prominent Virginian colonist of English descent. Lee's family is one of Virginia's first families, descended from Richard Lee I, Esq., \"the Immigrant\" (1618–64), from the county of Shropshire in England.\n\nLee's mother grew up at Shirley Plantation, one of the most elegant homes in Virginia. Lee's father, a tobacco planter, suffered severe financial reverses from failed investments.\n\nLittle is known of Lee as a child; he rarely spoke of his boyhood as an adult. Nothing is known of his relationship with his father who, after leaving his family, mentioned Robert only once in a letter. When given the opportunity to visit his father's Georgia grave, he remained there only briefly; yet, during his time as president of Washington College, he defended his father in a biographical sketch while editing Light Horse Harry's memoirs.\n\nIn 1809, Harry Lee was put in debtors prison; soon after his release the following year, Harry and Anne Lee and their five children moved to a small house on Cameron Street in Alexandria, Virginia, both because there were then high quality local schools there, and because several members of her extended family lived nearby. In 1811, the family, including the newly born sixth child, Mildred, moved to a house on Oronoco Street, still close to the center of town and with the houses of a number of Lee relatives close by.\n\nIn 1812, Harry Lee was badly injured in a political riot in Baltimore and traveled to the West Indies. He would never return, dying when his son Robert was eleven years old. Left to raise six children alone in straitened circumstances, Anne Lee and her family often paid extended visits to relatives and family friends. Robert Lee attended school at Eastern View, a school for young gentlemen, in Fauquier County, and then at the Alexandria Academy, free for local boys, where he showed an aptitude for mathematics. Although brought up to be a practicing Christian, he was not confirmed in the Episcopal Church until age 46.\n\nAnne Lee's family was often supported by a relative, William Henry Fitzhugh, who owned the Oronoco Street house and allowed the Lees to stay at his home in Fairfax County, Ravensworth. When Robert was 17 in 1824, Fitzhugh wrote to the Secretary of War, John C. Calhoun, urging that Robert be given an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Fitzhugh wrote little of Robert's academic prowess, dwelling much on the prominence of his family, and erroneously stated the boy was 18. Instead of mailing the letter, Fitzhugh had young Robert deliver it. In March 1824, Robert Lee received his appointment to West Point, but due to the large number of cadets admitted, Lee would have to wait a year to begin his studies there.\n\nLee entered West Point in the summer of 1825. At the time, the focus of the curriculum was engineering; the head of the Army Corps of Engineers supervised the school and the superintendent was an engineering officer. Cadets were not permitted leave until they had finished two years of study, and were rarely allowed off the Academy grounds. Lee graduated second in his class, behind only Charles Mason, (who resigned from the Army a year after graduation). Lee did not incur any demerits during his four-year course of study, a distinction shared by five of his 45 classmates. In June 1829, Lee was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. After graduation, while awaiting assignment, he returned to Virginia to find his mother on her deathbed; she died at Ravensworth on July 26, 1829.\n\nOn August 11, 1829, Brigadier General Charles Gratiot ordered Lee to Cockspur Island, Georgia. The plan was to build a fort on the marshy island which would command the outlet of the Savannah River. Lee was involved in the early stages of construction as the island was being drained and built up. In 1831, it became apparent that the existing plan to build what became known as Fort Pulaski would have to be revamped, and Lee was transferred to Fort Monroe at the tip of the Virginia Peninsula (today in Hampton, Virginia).\n\nWhile home in the summer of 1829, Lee had apparently courted Mary Custis whom he had known as a child. Lee obtained permission to write to her before leaving for Georgia, though Mary Custis warned Lee to be \"discreet\" in his writing, as her mother read her letters, especially from men. Custis refused Lee the first time he asked to marry her; her father did not believe the son of the disgraced Light Horse Harry Lee was a suitable man for his daughter. She accepted him with her father's consent in September 1830, while he was on summer leave, and the two were wed on June 30, 1831.\n\nLee's duties at Fort Monroe were varied, typical for a junior officer, and ranged from budgeting to designing buildings. Although Mary Lee accompanied her husband to Hampton Roads, she spent about a third of her time at Arlington, though the couple's first son, Custis Lee was born at Fort Monroe. Although the two were by all accounts devoted to each other, they were different in character: Robert Lee was tidy and punctual, qualities his wife lacked. Mary Lee also had trouble transitioning from being a rich man's daughter to having to manage a household with only one or two slaves. Beginning in 1832, Robert Lee had a close but platonic relationship with Harriett Talcott, wife of his fellow officer Andrew Talcott.\n\nLife at Fort Monroe was marked by conflicts between artillery and engineering officers. Eventually the War Department transferred all engineering officers away from Fort Monroe, except Lee, who was ordered to take up residence on the artificial island of Rip Raps across the river from Fort Monroe, where Fort Wool would eventually rise, and continue work to improve the island. Lee duly moved there, then discharged all workers and informed the War Department he could not maintain laborers without the facilities of the fort.\n\nIn 1834, Lee was transferred to Washington as General Gratiot's assistant. Lee had hoped to rent a house in Washington for his family, but was not able to find one; the family lived at Arlington, though Lieutenant Lee rented a room at a Washington boarding house for when the roads were impassable. In mid-1835, Lee was assigned to assist Andrew Talcott in surveying the southern border of Michigan. While on that expedition, he responded to a letter from an ill Mary Lee, which had requested he come to Arlington, \"But why do you urge my \"immediate\" return, & tempt one in the \"strongest\" manner<nowiki>[?]</nowiki> ... I rather require to be strengthened & encouraged to the \"full\" performance of what I am called on to execute.\" Lee completed the assignment and returned to his post in Washington, finding his wife ill at Ravensworth. Mary Lee, who had recently given birth to their second child, remained bedridden for several months. In October 1836, Lee was promoted to first lieutenant.\n\nLee served as an assistant in the chief engineer's office in Washington, D.C. from 1834 to 1837, but spent the summer of 1835 helping to lay out the state line between Ohio and Michigan. As a first lieutenant of engineers in 1837, he supervised the engineering work for St. Louis harbor and for the upper Mississippi and Missouri rivers. Among his projects was the mapping of the Des Moines Rapids on the Mississippi above Keokuk, Iowa, where the Mississippi's mean depth of was the upper limit of steamboat traffic on the river. His work there earned him a promotion to captain. Around 1842, Captain Robert E. Lee arrived as Fort Hamilton's post engineer.\n\nWhile Lee was stationed at Fort Monroe, he married Mary Anna Randolph Custis (1808–73), great-granddaughter of Martha Washington by her first husband Daniel Parke Custis, and step-great-granddaughter of George Washington, the first president of the United States. Mary was the only surviving child of George Washington Parke Custis, George Washington's stepgrandson, and Mary Lee Fitzhugh Custis, daughter of William Fitzhugh and Ann Bolling Randolph. Robert and Mary married on June 30, 1831, at Arlington House, her parents' house just across from Washington, D.C. The 3rd U.S. Artillery served as honor guard at the marriage. They eventually had seven children, three boys and four girls:\n\n\nAll the children survived him except for Annie, who died in 1862. They are all buried with their parents in the crypt of the Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia.\n\nLee was a great-great-great grandson of William Randolph and a great-great grandson of Richard Bland. He was also related to Helen Keller through Helen's mother, Kate, and was a distant relative of Admiral Willis Augustus Lee.\n\nOn May 1, 1864, General Lee was at the baptism of General A.P. Hill's daughter, Lucy Lee Hill, to serve as her godfather. This is referenced in the painting \"Tender is the Heart\" by Mort Künstler. He is the godfather of actress and writer Odette Tyler, the daughter of brigadier general William Whedbee Kirkland.\n\nLee distinguished himself in the Mexican–American War (1846–48). He was one of Winfield Scott's chief aides in the march from Veracruz to Mexico City. He was instrumental in several American victories through his personal reconnaissance as a staff officer; he found routes of attack that the Mexicans had not defended because they thought the terrain was impassable.\n\nHe was promoted to brevet major after the Battle of Cerro Gordo on April 18, 1847. He also fought at Contreras, Churubusco, and Chapultepec and was wounded at the last. By the end of the war, he had received additional brevet promotions to lieutenant colonel and colonel, but his permanent rank was still captain of engineers, and he would remain a captain until his transfer to the cavalry in 1855.\n\nFor the first time, Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant met and worked with each other during the Mexican–American War. Close observations of their commanders constituted a learning process for both Lee and Grant. The Mexican–American War concluded on February 2, 1848.\n\nAfter the Mexican War, Lee spent three years at Fort Carroll in Baltimore harbor. During this time, his service was interrupted by other duties, among them surveying and updating maps in Florida. Cuban revolutionary Narciso López intended to forcibly liberate Cuba from Spanish rule. In 1849, searching for a leader for his filibuster expedition, he approached Jefferson Davis, then a United States senator. Davis declined and suggested Lee, who also declined. Both decided it was inconsistent with their duties.\n\nThe 1850s were a difficult time for Lee, with his long absences from home, the increasing disability of his wife, troubles in taking over the management of a large slave plantation, and his often morbid concern with his personal failures.\n\nIn 1852, Lee was appointed Superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point. He was reluctant to enter what he called a \"snake pit\", but the War Department insisted and he obeyed. His wife occasionally came to visit. During his three years at West Point, Brevet Colonel Robert E. Lee improved the buildings and courses and spent much time with the cadets. Lee's oldest son, George Washington Custis Lee, attended West Point during his tenure. Custis Lee graduated in 1854, first in his class.\n\nLee was enormously relieved to receive a long-awaited promotion as second-in-command of the 2nd Cavalry Regiment in Texas in 1855. It meant leaving the Engineering Corps and its sequence of staff jobs for the combat command he truly wanted. He served under Colonel Albert Sidney Johnston at Camp Cooper, Texas; their mission was to protect settlers from attacks by the Apache and the Comanche.\n\nIn 1857, his father-in-law George Washington Parke Custis died, creating a serious crisis when Lee took on the burden of executing the will. Custis's will encompassed vast landholdings and hundreds of slaves balanced against massive debts, and required Custis's former slaves \"to be emancipated by my executors in such manner as to my executors may seem most expedient and proper, the said emancipation to be accomplished in not exceeding five years from the time of my decease.\" The estate was in disarray, and the plantations had been poorly managed and were losing money.\nLee tried to hire an overseer to handle the plantation in his absence, writing to his cousin, \"I wish to get an energetic honest farmer, who while he will be considerate & kind to the negroes, will be firm & make them do their duty.\" But Lee failed to find a man for the job, and had to take a two-year leave of absence from the army in order to run the plantation himself.\n\nLee's cruelty on the Arlington plantation nearly led to a slave revolt, since many of the slaves had been given to understand that they were to be made free as soon as Custis died, and protested angrily at the delay. In May 1858, Lee wrote to his son Rooney, \"I have had some trouble with some of the people. Reuben, Parks & Edward, in the beginning of the previous week, rebelled against my authority—refused to obey my orders, & said they were as free as I was, etc., etc.—I succeeded in capturing them & lodging them in jail. They resisted till overpowered & called upon the other people to rescue them.\" Less than two months after they were sent to the Alexandria jail, Lee decided to remove these three men and three female house slaves from Arlington, and sent them under lock and key to the slave-trader William Overton Winston in Richmond, who was instructed to keep them in jail until he could find \"good & responsible\" slaveholders to work them until the end of the five-year period.\n\nLee ruptured the Washington and Custis tradition of respecting slave families and by 1860 he had broken up every family but one on the estate, some of whom had been together since Mount Vernon days.\n\nIn 1859, three of the Arlington slaves—Wesley Norris, his sister Mary, and a cousin of theirs—fled for the North, but were captured a few miles from the Pennsylvania border and forced to return to Arlington. On June 24, 1859, the anti-slavery newspaper \"New York Daily Tribune\" published two anonymous letters (dated June 19, 1859 and June 21, 1859), each claiming to have heard that Lee had the Norrises whipped, and each going so far as to claim that the overseer refused to whip the woman but that Lee took the whip and flogged her personally. Lee privately wrote to his son Custis that \"The N. Y. Tribune has attacked me for my treatment of your grandfather's slaves, but I shall not reply. He has left me an unpleasant legacy.\"\n\nWesley Norris himself spoke out about the incident after the war, in an 1866 interview printed in an abolitionist newspaper, the \"National Anti-Slavery Standard\". Norris stated that after they had been captured, and forced to return to Arlington, Lee told them that \"he would teach us a lesson we would not soon forget.\" According to Norris, Lee then had the three of them firmly tied to posts by the overseer, and ordered them whipped with fifty lashes for the men and twenty for Mary Norris. Norris claimed that Lee encouraged the whipping, and that when the overseer refused to do it, called in the county constable to do it instead. Unlike the anonymous letter writers, he does not state that Lee himself whipped any of the slaves. According to Norris, Lee \"frequently enjoined [Constable] Williams to 'lay it on well,' an injunction which he did not fail to heed; not satisfied with simply lacerating our naked flesh, Gen. Lee then ordered the overseer to thoroughly wash our backs with brine, which was done.\"\n\nThe Norris men were then sent by Lee's agent to work on the railroads in Virginia and Alabama. According to the interview, Norris was sent to Richmond in January 1863 \"from which place I finally made my escape through the rebel lines to freedom.\" But Federal authorities reported that Norris came within their lines on September 5, 1863, and that he \"left Richmond...with a pass from General Custis Lee.\" Lee freed the Custis slaves, including Wesley Norris, after the end of the five-year period in the winter of 1862, filing the deed of manumission on December 29, 1862.\n\nBiographers of Lee have differed over the credibility of the account of the punishment as described in the letters in the \"Tribune\" and in Norris's personal account. They broadly agree that Lee had a group of escaped slaves recaptured, and that after recapturing them he hired them out off of the Arlington plantation as a punishment; but they disagree over the likelihood that Lee flogged them, and over the charge that he personally whipped Mary Norris. In 1934, Douglas S. Freeman described them as \"Lee's first experience with the extravagance of irresponsible antislavery agitators\" and asserted that \"There is no evidence, direct or indirect, that Lee ever had them or any other Negroes flogged. The usage at Arlington and elsewhere in Virginia among people of Lee's station forbade such a thing.\"\n\nIn 2000, Michael Fellman, in \"The Making of Robert E. Lee\", found the claims that Lee had \"personally\" whipped \"Mary\" Norris \"extremely unlikely,\" but found it not at all unlikely that Lee had ordered the runaways whipped: \"corporal punishment (for which Lee substituted the euphemism 'firmness') was (believed to be) an intrinsic and necessary part of slave discipline. Although it was supposed to be applied only in a calm and rational manner, overtly physical domination of slaves, unchecked by law, was always brutal and potentially savage.\"\n\nIn 2003, Bernice-Marie Yates's \"The Perfect Gentleman\", cited Freeman's denial and followed his account in holding that, because of Lee's family connections to George Washington, he \"was a prime target for abolitionists who lacked all the facts of the situation.\"\n\nLee biographer Elizabeth Brown Pryor concluded in 2008 that \"the facts are verifiable,\" based on \"the consistency of the five extant descriptions of the episode (the only element that is not repeatedly corroborated is the allegation that Lee gave the beatings himself), as well as the existence of an account book that indicates the constable received compensation from Lee on the date that this event occurred.\"\n\nIn 2014, Michael Korda wrote that \"Although these letters are dismissed by most of Lee's biographers as exaggerated, or simply as unfounded abolitionist propaganda, it is hard to ignore them. [...] It seems incongruously out of character for Lee to have whipped a slave woman himself, particularly one stripped to the waist, and that charge may have been a flourish added by the two correspondents; it was not repeated by Wesley Norris when his account of the incident was published in 1866. [...] [A]lthough it seems unlikely that he would have done any of the whipping himself, he may not have flinched from observing it to make sure his orders were carried out exactly.\"\n\nSeveral historians have noted the paradoxical nature of Lee's beliefs and actions concerning race and slavery. While Lee protested he had sympathetic feelings for blacks, they were subordinate to his own racial identity. While Lee held slavery to be an evil institution, he also saw some benefit to blacks held in slavery. While Lee helped assist individual slaves to freedom in Liberia, and provided for their emancipation in his own will, he believed the enslaved should be eventually freed in a general way only at some unspecified future date as a part of God's purpose. Slavery for Lee was a moral and religious issue, and not one that would yield to political solutions. Emancipation would sooner come from Christian impulse among slave masters before \"storms and tempests of fiery controversy\" such as was occurring in \"Bleeding Kansas\". Countering southerners who argued for slavery as a positive good, Lee in his well-known analysis of slavery from an 1856 letter called it a moral and political evil. While both Robert and his wife Mary Lee were disgusted with slavery, they also defended it against Abolitionist demands for immediate emancipation for all enslaved.\n\nLike Washington, Lee's father-in-law G. W. Parke Custis freed his slaves in his will. In the same tradition, before leaving to serve in Mexico, Lee had written a will providing for the manumission of the only slaves he owned. Parke Custis was a member of the American Colonization Society, which was formed to gradually end slavery by establishing a free republic in Liberia for African-Americans, and Lee assisted several ex-slaves to emigrate there. Also, according to historian Richard B. McCaslin, Lee was a gradual emancipationist, denouncing extremist proposals for immediate abolition of slavery. Lee rejected what he called evilly motivated political passion, fearing a civil and servile war from precipitous emancipation.\n\nHistorian Elizabeth Brown Pryor offered an alternative interpretation of Lee's voluntary manumission of slaves in his will, and assisting slaves to a life of freedom in Liberia, seeing Lee as conforming to a \"primacy of slave law\". She wrote that Lee's private views on race and slavery,\n\nOn taking on the role of administrator for the Parke Custis will, Lee used a provision to retain them in slavery to produce income for the estate to retire debt. Lee did not welcome the role of planter while administering the Custis properties at Romancoke, another nearby the Pamunkey River and Arlington; he rented the estate's mill. While all the estates prospered under his administration, Lee was unhappy at direct participation in slavery as a hated institution.\n\nEven before what Michael Fellman called a \"sorry involvement in actual slave management\", Lee judged the experience of white mastery to be a greater moral evil to the white man than blacks suffering under the \"painful discipline\" of slavery which introduced Christianity, literacy and a work ethic to the \"heathen African\". Columbia University historian Eric Foner notes that:\nBy the time of Lee's career in the U.S. Army, the officers of West Point stood aloof from political-party and sectional strife on such issues as slavery, as a matter of principle, and Lee adhered to the principle. He considered it his patriotic duty to be apolitical while in active Army service, and Lee did not speak out publicly on the subject of slavery prior to the Civil War. Before the outbreak of the War, in 1860, Lee voted for John C. Breckinridge, who was the extreme pro-slavery candidate in the 1860 presidential election, not John Bell, the more moderate Southerner who won Virginia.\n\nLee himself owned a small number of slaves in his lifetime and considered himself a paternalistic master. There are various historical and newspaper hearsay accounts of Lee personally whipping a slave, but they are not direct eyewitness accounts. He was definitely involved in administering the day-to-day operations of a plantation and was involved in the recapture of runaway slaves. One historian noted that Lee separated slave families, something that prominent slave-holding families in Virginia such as Washington and Custis did not do. In 1862, Lee freed the slaves that his wife inherited, but that was in accordance with his father-in-law's will.\n\nLee claimed that he found slavery bothersome and time-consuming as an everyday institution to run. In an 1856 letter to his wife, he maintained that slavery was a great evil, but primarily due to adverse impact that it had on white people:In this enlightened age, there are few I believe, but what will acknowledge, that slavery as an institution, is a moral & political evil in any Country. It is useless to expatiate on its disadvantages. I think it however a greater evil to the white man than to the black race, & while my feelings are strongly enlisted in behalf of the latter, my sympathies are more strong for the former. The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, & I hope will prepare & lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known & ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.\n\nFoner writes that \"Lee's code of gentlemanly conduct did not seem to apply to blacks\" during the War, as he did not stop his soldiers from kidnapping free black farmers and selling them into slavery. Princeton University historian James M. McPherson noted that Lee initially rejected a prisoner exchange between the Confederacy and the Union when the Union demanded that black Union soldiers be included. Lee did not accept the swap until a few months before the Confederacy's surrender.\n\nIn December 1864 Lee was shown a letter by Louisiana Senator Edward Sparrow, written by General St. John R. Liddell, which noted Lee would be hard-pressed in the interior of Virginia by spring, and the need to consider Patrick Cleburne's plan to emancipate the slaves and put all men in the army who were willing to join. Lee was said to have agreed on all points and desired to get black soldiers, saying \"he could make soldiers out of any human being that had arms and legs.\"\n\nAfter the War, Lee told a congressional committee that blacks were \"not disposed to work\" and did not possess the intellectual capacity to vote and participate in politics. Lee also said to the committee that he hoped that Virginia could \"get rid of them,\" referring to blacks. While not politically active, Lee defended Lincoln's successor, Andrew Johnson's approach to Reconstruction, which according to Foner, \"abandoned the former slaves to the mercy of governments controlled by their former owners.\" According to Foner, \"A word from Lee might have encouraged white Southerners to accord blacks equal rights and inhibited the violence against the freed people that swept the region during Reconstruction, but he chose to remain silent.\" Lee was also urged to condemn the white-supremacy organization Ku Klux Klan, but opted to remain silent.\n\nIn the generation following the war, Lee, though he died just a few years later, became a central figure in the Lost Cause interpretation of the war. The argument that Lee had always somehow opposed slavery, and freed his wife's slaves, helped maintain his stature as a symbol of Southern honor and national reconciliation. Douglas Southall Freeman's Pulitzer prize-winning four-volume \"R. E. Lee: A Biography\" (1936), which was for a long period considered the definitive work on Lee, downplayed his involvement in slavery and emphasized Lee as a virtuous person. Eric Foner, who describes Freeman's volume as a \"hagiography\", notes that on the whole, Freeman \"displayed little interest in Lee's relationship to slavery. The index to his four volumes contained 22 entries for 'devotion to duty', 19 for 'kindness', 53 for Lee's celebrated horse, Traveller. But 'slavery', 'slave emancipation' and 'slave insurrection' together received five. Freeman observed, without offering details, that slavery in Virginia represented the system 'at its best'. He ignored the postwar testimony of Lee's former slave Wesley Norris about the brutal treatment to which he had been subjected.\"\n\nBoth Harpers Ferry and the secession of Texas were monumental events leading up to the Civil War. Robert E. Lee was at both events. Lee initially remained loyal to the Union after Texas seceded.\n\nJohn Brown led a band of 21 abolitionists who seized the federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia, in October 1859, hoping to incite a slave rebellion. President James Buchanan gave Lee command of detachments of militia, soldiers, and United States Marines, to suppress the uprising and arrest its leaders. By the time Lee arrived that night, the militia on the site had surrounded Brown and his hostages. At dawn, Brown refused the demand for surrender. Lee attacked, and Brown and his followers were captured after three minutes of fighting. Lee's summary report of the episode shows Lee believed it \"was the attempt of a fanatic or madman\". Lee said Brown achieved \"temporary success\" by creating panic and confusion and by \"magnifying\" the number of participants involved in the raid.\n\nIn 1860, Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee relieved Major Heintzelman at Fort Brown, and the Mexican authorities offered to restrain \"their citizens from making predatory descents upon the territory and people of Texas...this was the last active operation of the Cortina War\". Rip Ford, a Texas Ranger at the time, described Lee as \"dignified without hauteur, grand without pride...he evinced an imperturbable self-possession, and a complete control of his passions...possessing the capacity to accomplish great ends and the gift of controlling and leading men.\"\n\nWhen Texas seceded from the Union in February 1861, General David E. Twiggs surrendered all the American forces (about 4,000 men, including Lee, and commander of the Department of Texas) to the Texans. Twiggs immediately resigned from the U.S. Army and was made a Confederate general. Lee went back to Washington and was appointed Colonel of the First Regiment of Cavalry in March 1861. Lee's colonelcy was signed by the new President, Abraham Lincoln. Three weeks after his promotion, Colonel Lee was offered a senior command (with the rank of Major General) in the expanding Army to fight the Southern States that had left the Union. Fort Mason, Texas was Lee's last command with the United States Army.\n\nUnlike many Southerners who expected a glorious war, Lee correctly predicted it as protracted and devastating. He privately opposed the new Confederate States of America in letters in early 1861, denouncing secession as \"nothing but revolution\" and an unconstitutional betrayal of the efforts of the Founding Fathers. Writing to George Washington Custis in January, Lee stated:\n\nDespite opposing secession, Lee said in January that \"we can with a clear conscience separate\" if all peaceful means failed. He agreed with secessionists in most areas, such as dislike of Northern anti-slavery criticisms and prevention of expanding slavery to new territories, and fear of its larger population. Lee supported the Crittenden Compromise, which would have constitutionally protected slavery.\n\nLee's objection to secession was ultimately outweighed by a sense of personal honor, reservations about the legitimacy of a strife-ridden \"Union that can only be maintained by swords and bayonets\", and duty to defend his native Virginia if attacked. He was asked while leaving Texas by a lieutenant if he intended to fight for the Confederacy or the Union, to which Lee replied, \"I shall never bear arms against the Union, but it may be necessary for me to carry a musket in the defense of my native state, Virginia, in which case I shall not prove recreant to my duty\".\n\nAlthough Virginia had the most slaves of any state, it was more similar to Maryland, which stayed in the Union, than the Deep South; a convention voted against secession in early 1861. Scott, commanding general of the Union Army and Lee's mentor, told Lincoln he wanted him for a top command, telling Secretary of War Simon Cameron that he had \"entire confidence\" in Lee. He accepted a promotion to colonel of the 1st Cavalry Regiment on March 28, again swearing an oath to the United States. Meanwhile, Lee ignored an offer of command from the Confederacy. After Lincoln's call for troops to put down the rebellion, a second Virginia convention in Richmond voted to secede on April 17, and a May 23 referendum would likely ratify the decision. That night Lee dined with brother Smith and cousin Phillips, naval officers. Because of Lee's indecision, Phillips went to the War Department the next morning to warn that the Union might lose his cousin if the government did not act quickly.\n\nIn Washington that day, Lee was offered by presidential advisor Francis P. Blair a role as major general to command the defense of the national capital. He replied:\n\nLee agreed that to avoid dishonor he had to resign before receiving unwanted orders. While historians have usually called his decision inevitable (\"the answer he was born to make\", wrote Douglas Southall Freeman; another called it a \"no-brainer\") given the ties to family and state, an 1871 letter from his eldest daughter, Mary Custis Lee, to a biographer described Lee as \"worn and harassed\" yet calm as he deliberated alone in his office. People on the street noticed Lee's grim face as he tried to decide over the next two days, and he later said that he kept the resignation letter for a day before sending it on April 20. Two days later the Richmond convention invited Lee to the city. It elected him as commander of Virginia state forces before his arrival on April 23, and almost immediately gave him George Washington's sword as symbol of his appointment; whether he was told of a decision he did not want without time to decide, or did want the excitement and opportunity of command, is unclear.\n\nA cousin on Scott's staff told the family that Lee's decision so upset Scott that he collapsed on a sofa and mourned as if he had lost a son, and asked to not hear Lee's name. When Lee told family his decision he said \"I suppose you will all think I have done very wrong\", as the others were mostly pro-Union; only Mary Custis was a secessionist, and her mother especially wanted to choose the Union but told her husband that she would support whatever he decided. Many younger men like nephew Fitzhugh wanted to support the Confederacy, but Lee's three sons joined the Confederate military only after their father's decision.\n\nMost family members like brother Smith reluctantly also chose the South, but Smith's wife and Anne, Lee's sister, still supported the Union; Anne's son joined the Union Army, and no one in his family ever spoke to Lee again. Many cousins fought for the Confederacy, but Phillips and John Fitzgerald told Lee in person that they would uphold their oaths; John H. Upshur stayed with the Union military despite much family pressure; Roger Jones stayed in the Union army after Lee refused to advise him on what to do; and two of Philip Fendall's sons fought for the Union. Forty percent of Virginian officers stayed with the North.\n\nAt the outbreak of war, Lee was appointed to command all of Virginia's forces, but upon the formation of the Confederate States Army, he was named one of its first five full generals. Lee did not wear the insignia of a Confederate general, but only the three stars of a Confederate colonel, equivalent to his last U.S. Army rank. He did not intend to wear a general's insignia until the Civil War had been won and he could be promoted, in peacetime, to general in the Confederate Army.\n\nLee's first field assignment was commanding Confederate forces in western Virginia, where he was defeated at the Battle of Cheat Mountain and was widely blamed for Confederate setbacks. He was then sent to organize the coastal defenses along the Carolina and Georgia seaboard, appointed commander, \"Department of South Carolina, Georgia and Florida\" on November 5, 1861. Between then and the fall of Fort Pulaski, April 11, 1862, he put in place a defense of Savannah that proved successful in blocking Federal advance on Savannah. Confederate fort and naval gunnery dictated night time movement and construction by the besiegers. Federal preparations required four months. In those four months, Lee developed a defense in depth. Behind Fort Pulaski on the Savannah River, Fort Jackson was improved, and two additional batteries covered river approaches. In the face of the Union superiority in naval, artillery and infantry deployment, Lee was able to block any Federal advance on Savannah, and at the same time, well-trained Georgia troops were released in time to meet McClellan's Peninsula Campaign. The City of Savannah would not fall until Sherman's approach from the interior at the end of 1864.\n\nAt first, the press spoke to the disappointment of losing Fort Pulaski. Surprised by the effectiveness of large caliber Parrott Rifles in their first deployment, it was widely speculated that only betrayal could have brought overnight surrender to a Third System Fort. Lee was said to have failed to get effective support in the Savannah River from the three sidewheeler gunboats of the Georgia Navy. Although again blamed by the press for Confederate reverses, he was appointed military adviser to Confederate President Jefferson Davis, the former U.S. Secretary of War. While in Richmond, Lee was ridiculed as the 'King of Spades' for his excessive digging of trenches around the capitol. These trenches would later play a pivotal role in battles near the end of the war.\n\nIn the spring of 1862, in the Peninsula Campaign, the Union Army of the Potomac under General George B. McClellan advanced on Richmond from Fort Monroe to the east. McClellan forced Gen. Joseph E. Johnston and the Army of Virginia to retreat to just north and east of the Confederate capital.\n\nThen Johnston was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines, on June 1, 1862. Lee now got his first opportunity to lead an army in the field – the force he renamed the Army of \"Northern\" Virginia, signalling his confidence that the Union army would be driven away from Richmond. Early in the war, Lee had been called \"Granny Lee\" for his allegedly timid style of command. Confederate newspaper editorials objected to him replacing Johnston, opining that Lee would be passive, waiting for Union attack. And for the first three weeks of June, he did not attack, instead strengthening Richmond's defenses.\n\nBut then he launched a series of bold attacks against McClellan's forces, the Seven Days Battles. Despite superior Union numbers, and some clumsy tactical performances by his subordinates, Lee's attacks derailed McClellan's plans and drove back part of his forces. Confederate casualties were heavy, but McClellan was unnerved, retreated to the lower James River, and abandoned the Peninsula Campaign. This success completely changed Confederate morale, and the public's regard for Lee. After the Seven Days Battles, and until the end of the war, his men called him simply \"Marse Robert\", a term of respect and affection.\n\nThe setback, and the resulting drop in Union morale, impelled Lincoln to adopt a new policy of relentless, committed warfare. After the Seven Days, Lincoln decided he would move to emancipate most Confederate slaves by executive order, as a military act, using his authority as commander-in-chief. But he needed a Union victory first.\n\nMeanwhile, Lee defeated another Union army under Gen. John Pope at the Second Battle of Bull Run. In less than 90 days after taking command, Lee had run McClellan off the Peninsula, defeated Pope, and moved the battle lines from outside Richmond, to outside Washington.\n\nLee now invaded Maryland and Pennsylvania, hoping to collect supplies in Union territory, and possibly win a victory that would sway the upcoming Union elections in favor of ending the war. But McClellan's men found a lost Confederate dispatch, Special Order 191, that revealed Lee's plans and movements. McClellan always exaggerated Lee's numerical strength, but now he knew the Confederate army was divided and could be destroyed in detail. However, McClellan moved slowly, not realizing a spy had informed Lee that McClellan had the plans. Lee quickly concentrated his forces west of Antietam Creek, near Sharpsburg, Maryland, where McClellan attacked on September 17. The Battle of Antietam was the single bloodiest day of the war, with both sides suffering enormous losses. Lee's army barely withstood the Union assaults, then retreated to Virginia the next day. This narrow Confederate defeat gave President Abraham Lincoln the opportunity to issue his Emancipation Proclamation, which put the Confederacy on the diplomatic and moral defensive.\n\nDisappointed by McClellan's failure to destroy Lee's army, Lincoln named Ambrose Burnside as commander of the Army of the Potomac. Burnside ordered an attack across the Rappahannock River at Fredericksburg, Virginia. Delays in bridging the river allowed Lee's army ample time to organize strong defenses, and the Union frontal assault on December 13, 1862 was a disaster. There were 12,600 Union casualties to 5,000 Confederate; one of the most one-sided battles in the Civil War. After this victory, Lee reportedly said \"It is well that war is so terrible, else we should grow too fond of it.\" At Fredericksburg, according to historian Michael Fellman, Lee had completely entered into the \"spirit of war, where destructiveness took on its own beauty.\"\n\nAfter the bitter Union defeat at Fredericksburg, President Lincoln named Joseph Hooker commander of the Army of the Potomac. In May 1863, Hooker maneuvered to attack Lee's army via Chancellorsville, Virginia. But Hooker was defeated by Lee's daring maneuver: dividing his army and sending Stonewall Jackson's corps to attack Hooker's flank. Lee won a decisive victory over a larger force, but with heavy casualties, including Jackson, his finest corps commander, who was accidentally killed by his own troops.\n\nThe critical decisions came in May–June 1863, after Lee's smashing victory at the Battle of Chancellorsville. The western front was crumbling, as multiple uncoordinated Confederate armies were unable to handle General Ulysses S. Grant's campaign against Vicksburg. The top military advisers wanted to save Vicksburg, but Lee persuaded Davis to overrule them and authorize yet another invasion of the North. The immediate goal was to acquire urgently needed supplies from the rich farming districts of Pennsylvania; a long-term goal was to stimulate peace activity in the North by demonstrating the power of the South to invade. Lee's decision proved a significant strategic blunder and cost the Confederacy control of its western regions, and nearly cost Lee his own army as Union forces cut him off from the South.\n\nIn the summer of 1863, Lee invaded the North again, marching through western Maryland and into south central Pennsylvania. He encountered Union forces under George G. Meade at the three-day Battle of Gettysburg in Pennsylvania in July; the battle would produce the largest number of casualties in the American Civil War. With some of his subordinates being new and inexperienced in their commands, J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry being out of the area, and Lee being slightly ill, he was less than comfortable with how events were unfolding. While the first day of battle was controlled by the Confederates, key terrain that should have been taken by General Ewell was not. The second day ended with the Confederates unable to break the Union position, and the Union being more solidified. Lee's decision on the third day, against the judgment of his best corps commander General Longstreet, to launch a massive frontal assault on the center of the Union line turned out to be disastrous. The assault known as Pickett's Charge was repulsed and resulted in heavy Confederate losses. The general rode out to meet his retreating army and proclaimed, \"All this has been my fault.\" Lee was compelled to retreat. Despite flooded rivers that blocked his retreat, he escaped Meade's ineffective pursuit. Following his defeat at Gettysburg, Lee sent a letter of resignation to President Davis on August 8, 1863, but Davis refused Lee's request. That fall, Lee and Meade met again in two minor campaigns that did little to change the strategic standoff. The Confederate Army never fully recovered from the substantial losses incurred during the 3-day battle in southern Pennsylvania. The historian Shelby Foote stated, \"Gettysburg was the price the South paid for having Robert E. Lee as commander.\"\n\nIn 1864 the new Union general-in-chief, Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant, sought to use his large advantages in manpower and material resources to destroy Lee's army by attrition, pinning Lee against his capital of Richmond. Lee successfully stopped each attack, but Grant with his superior numbers kept pushing each time a bit farther to the southeast. These battles in the Overland Campaign included the Wilderness, Spotsylvania Court House and Cold Harbor.\n\nGrant eventually was able to stealthily move his army across the James River. After stopping a Union attempt to capture Petersburg, Virginia, a vital railroad link supplying Richmond, Lee's men built elaborate trenches and were besieged in Petersburg, a development which presaged the trench warfare of World War I. Lee attempted to break the stalemate by sending Jubal A. Early on a raid through the Shenandoah Valley to Washington, D.C., but Early was defeated early on by the superior forces of Philip Sheridan. The Siege of Petersburg lasted from June 1864 until March 1865, with Lee's outnumbered and poorly supplied army shrinking daily because of desertions by disheartened Confederates.\n\nOn February 6, 1865, Lee was appointed General in Chief of the Armies of the Confederate States.\n\nAs the South ran out of manpower the issue of arming the slaves became paramount. Lee explained, \"We should employ them without delay ... [along with] gradual and general emancipation.\" The first units were in training as the war ended. As the Confederate army was devastated by casualties, disease and desertion, the Union attack on Petersburg succeeded on April 2, 1865. Lee abandoned Richmond and retreated west. Lee then made an attempt to escape to the southwest and join up with Joseph E. Johnston's Army of Tennessee in North Carolina. However, his forces were soon surrounded and he surrendered them to Grant on April 9, 1865, at the Battle of Appomattox Court House. Other Confederate armies followed suit and the war ended. The day after his surrender, Lee issued his Farewell Address to his army.\n\nLee resisted calls by some officers to reject surrender and allow small units to melt away into the mountains, setting up a lengthy guerrilla war. He insisted the war was over and energetically campaigned for inter-sectional reconciliation. \"So far from engaging in a war to perpetuate slavery, I am rejoiced that slavery is abolished. I believe it will be greatly for the interests of the South.\"\n\nThe following are summaries of Civil War campaigns and major battles where Robert E. Lee was the commanding officer:\n\nAfter the war, Lee was not arrested or punished (although he was indicted), but he did lose the right to vote as well as some property. Lee’s prewar family home, the Custis-Lee Mansion, was seized by Union forces during the war and turned into Arlington National Cemetery, and his family was not compensated until more than a decade after his death.\n\nLee somewhat supported President Johnson’s plan of Reconstruction. In 1866 Lee counseled southerners not to resume fighting, of which Grant said Lee was “setting an example of forced acquiescence so grudging and pernicious in its effects as to be hardly realized”. Lee joined with Democrats in opposing the Radical Republicans who demanded punitive measures against the South, distrusted its commitment to the abolition of slavery and, indeed, distrusted the region’s loyalty to the United States. Lee supported a system of free public schools for blacks, but forthrightly opposed allowing blacks to vote. “My own opinion is that, at this time, they [black Southerners] cannot vote intelligently, and that giving them the [vote] would lead to a great deal of demagogism, and lead to embarrassments in various ways,” Lee stated. Emory Thomas says Lee had become a suffering Christ-like icon for ex-Confederates. President Grant invited him to the White House in 1869, and he went. Nationally he became an icon of reconciliation between the North and South, and the reintegration of former Confederates into the national fabric.\n\nLee hoped to retire to a farm of his own, but he was too much a regional symbol to live in obscurity. From April to June 1865, he and his family resided in Richmond at the Stewart-Lee House. He accepted an offer to serve as the president of Washington College (now Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Virginia, and served from October 1865 until his death. The Trustees used his famous name in large-scale fund-raising appeals and Lee transformed Washington College into a leading Southern college, expanding its offerings significantly, adding programs in commerce and journalism, and incorporating the Lexington Law School. Lee was well liked by the students, which enabled him to announce an \"honor system\" like that of West Point, explaining that \"we have but one rule here, and it is that every student be a gentleman.\" To speed up national reconciliation Lee recruited students from the North and made certain they were well treated on campus and in town.\n\nSeveral glowing appraisals of Lee’s tenure as college president have survived, depicting the dignity and respect he commanded among all. Previously, most students had been obliged to occupy the campus dormitories, while only the most mature were allowed to live off-campus. Lee quickly reversed this rule, requiring most students to board off-campus, and allowing only the most mature to live in the dorms as a mark of privilege; the results of this policy were considered a success. A typical account by a professor there states that “the students fairly worshipped him, and deeply dreaded his displeasure; yet so kind, affable, and gentle was he toward them that all loved to approach him. ... No student would have dared to violate General Lee’s expressed wish or appeal; if he had done so, the students themselves would have driven him from the college.”\n\nWhile at Washington College, Lee told a colleague that the greatest mistake of his life was taking a military education.\n\nOn May 29, 1865, President Andrew Johnson issued a Proclamation of Amnesty and Pardon to persons who had participated in the rebellion against the United States. There were fourteen excepted classes, though, and members of those classes had to make special application to the President. Lee sent an application to Grant and wrote to President Johnson on June 13, 1865:\n\nOn October 2, 1865, the same day that Lee was inaugurated as president of Washington College in Lexington, Virginia, he signed his Amnesty Oath, thereby complying fully with the provision of Johnson’s proclamation. Lee was not pardoned, nor was his citizenship restored.\n\nThree years later, on December 25, 1868, Johnson proclaimed a second amnesty which removed previous exceptions, such as the one that affected Lee.\n\nLee, who had opposed secession and remained mostly indifferent to politics before the Civil War, supported President Andrew Johnson’s plan of Presidential Reconstruction that took effect in 1865–66. However, he opposed the Congressional Republican program that took effect in 1867. In February 1866, he was called to testify before the Joint Congressional Committee on Reconstruction in Washington, where he expressed support for Johnson's plans for quick restoration of the former Confederate states, and argued that restoration should return, as far as possible, to the \"status quo ante\" in the Southern states' governments (with the exception of slavery).\n\nLee told the Committee, \"...every one with whom I associate expresses kind feelings towards the freedmen. They wish to see them get on in the world, and particularly to take up some occupation for a living, and to turn their hands to some work.\" Lee also expressed his \"willingness that blacks should be educated, and ... that it would be better for the blacks and for the whites.\" Lee forthrightly opposed allowing blacks to vote: \"My own opinion is that, at this time, they [black Southerners] cannot vote intelligently, and that giving them the [vote] would lead to a great deal of demagogism, and lead to embarrassments in various ways.\"\n\nIn an interview in May 1866, Lee said: \"The Radical party are likely to do a great deal of harm, for we wish now for good feeling to grow up between North and South, and the President, Mr. Johnson, has been doing much to strengthen the feeling in favor of the Union among us. The relations between the Negroes and the whites were friendly formerly, and would remain so if legislation be not passed in favor of the blacks, in a way that will only do them harm.\"\n\nIn 1868, Lee’s ally Alexander H. H. Stuart drafted a public letter of endorsement for the Democratic Party's presidential campaign, in which Horatio Seymour ran against Lee's old foe Republican Ulysses S. Grant. Lee signed it along with thirty-one other ex-Confederates. The Democratic campaign, eager to publicize the endorsement, published the statement widely in newspapers. Their letter claimed paternalistic concern for the welfare of freed Southern blacks, stating that “The idea that the Southern people are hostile to the negroes and would oppress them, if it were in their power to do so, is entirely unfounded. They have grown up in our midst, and we have been accustomed from childhood to look upon them with kindness.” However, it also called for the restoration of white political rule, arguing that “It is true that the people of the South, in common with a large majority of the people of the North and West, are, for obvious reasons, inflexibly opposed to any system of laws that would place the political power of the country in the hands of the negro race. But this opposition springs from no feeling of enmity, but from a deep-seated conviction that, at present, the negroes have neither the intelligence nor the other qualifications which are necessary to make them safe depositories of political power.”\n\nIn his public statements and private correspondence, Lee argued that a tone of reconciliation and patience would further the interests of white Southerners better than hotheaded antagonism to federal authority or the use of violence. Lee repeatedly expelled white students from Washington College for violent attacks on local black men, and publicly urged obedience to the authorities and respect for law and order. He privately chastised fellow ex-Confederates such as Jefferson Davis and Jubal Early for their frequent, angry responses to perceived Northern insults, writing in private to them as he had written to a magazine editor in 1865, that “It should be the object of all to avoid controversy, to allay passion, give full scope to reason and to every kindly feeling. By doing this and encouraging our citizens to engage in the duties of life with all their heart and mind, with a determination not to be turned aside by thoughts of the past and fears of the future, our country will not only be restored in material prosperity, but will be advanced in science, in virtue and in religion.”\n\nOn September 28, 1870, Lee suffered a stroke. He died two weeks later, shortly after 9 a.m. on October 12, 1870, in Lexington, Virginia, from the effects of pneumonia. According to one account, his last words on the day of his death, were \"Tell Hill he must come up. Strike the tent\", but this is debatable because of conflicting accounts and because Lee's stroke had resulted in aphasia, possibly rendering him unable to speak.\n\nAt first no suitable coffin for the body could be located. The muddy roads were too flooded for anyone to get in or out of the town of Lexington. An undertaker had ordered three from Richmond that had reached Lexington, but due to unprecedented flooding from long-continued heavy rains, the caskets were washed down the Maury River. Two neighborhood boys, C.G. Chittum and Robert E. Hillis, found one of the coffins that had been swept ashore. Undamaged, it was used for the General's body, though it was a bit short for him. As a result, Lee was buried without shoes. He was buried underneath Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University, where his body remains.\n\nAmong the supporters of the Confederacy, Lee came to be even more revered after his surrender than he had been during the war, when Stonewall Jackson had been the great Confederate hero. In an address before the Southern Historical Society in Atlanta, Georgia in 1874, Benjamin Harvey Hill described Lee in this way:\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, Lee's popularity had spread to the North. Lee's admirers have pointed to his character and devotion to duty, and his brilliant tactical successes in battle after battle against a stronger foe.\n\nMilitary historians continue to pay attention to his battlefield tactics and maneuvering, though many think he should have designed better strategic plans for the Confederacy. He was not given full direction of the Southern war effort until late in the conflict.\n\nHistorian Eric Foner writes that at the end of his life,\n\nRobert E. Lee has been commemorated on U.S. postage stamps at least five times, the first one being a commemorative stamp that also honored Stonewall Jackson, issued in 1936. A second \"regular-issue\" stamp was issued in 1955. He was commemorated with a 32-cent stamp issued in the American Civil War Issue of June 29, 1995. His horse Traveller is pictured in the background. An image of the stamp is available at Arago online at the link in the footnote.\n\nWashington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia was commemorated on its 200th anniversary on November 23, 1948, with a 3-cent postage stamp. The central design is a view of the university, flanked by portraits of generals George Washington and Robert E. Lee. Lee was again commemorated on a commemorative stamp in 1970, along with Jefferson Davis and Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson, depicted on horseback on the 6-cent Stone Mountain Memorial commemorative issue, modeled after the actual Stone Mountain Memorial carving in Georgia. The stamp was issued on September 19, 1970, in conjunction with the dedication of the Stone Mountain Confederate Memorial in Georgia on May 9, 1970. The design of the stamp replicates the memorial, the largest high relief sculpture in the world. It is carved on the side of Stone Mountain 400 feet above the ground.\n\nStone Mountain also led to Lee's appearance on a commemorative coin, the 1925 Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar. During the 1920s and '30s dozens of specially designed half dollars were struck to raise money for various events and causes. This issue had a particularly wide distribution, with 1,314,709 minted. Unlike some of the other issues it remains a very common coin.\nOn September 29, 2007, General Lee's three Civil War-era letters were sold for $61,000 at auction by Thomas Willcox, much less than the record of $630,000 for a Lee item in 2002. The auction included more than 400 documents of Lee's from the estate of the parents of Willcox that had been in the family for generations. South Carolina sued to stop the sale on the grounds that the letters were official documents and therefore property of the state, but the court ruled in favor of Willcox.\n\nOn January 30, 1975, Senate Joint Resolution 23, \"A joint resolution to restore posthumously full rights of citizenship to General R. E. Lee\" was introduced into the Senate by Senator Harry F. Byrd Jr. (I-VA), the result of a five-year campaign to accomplish this. The resolution, which enacted Public Law 94-67, was passed, and the bill was signed by President Gerald Ford on September 5.\n\nFrom its installation in 1884 until its removal in 2017, the most prominent monument in New Orleans was a -tall monument to General Lee. A statue of Lee stood tall upon a towering column of white marble in the middle of Lee Circle. The statue of Lee, which weighs more than faced the north. Lee Circle is situated along New Orleans's famous St. Charles Avenue. The New Orleans streetcars roll past Lee Circle and New Orleans's best Mardi Gras parades go around Lee Circle (the spot is so popular that bleachers are set up annually around the perimeter for Mardi Gras). Around the corner from Lee Circle is New Orleans's Confederate museum, which contains the second-largest collection of Confederate memorabilia in the world. The statue of General Lee was removed on May 19, 2017, the last of four Confederate monuments in New Orleans to be taken down.\n\nIn a tribute to Lee Circle (which had formerly been known as Tivoli Circle), former Confederate soldier George Washington Cable wrote:\nIn Tivoli Circle, New Orleans, from the centre and apex of its green flowery mound, an immense column of pure white marble rises in the ... majesty of Grecian proportions high up above the city's house-tops into the dazzling sunshine ... On its dizzy top stands the bronze figure of one of the world's greatest captains. He is alone. Not one of his mighty lieutenants stand behind, beside or below him. His arms are folded on that breast that never knew fear, and his calm, dauntless gaze meets the morning sun as it rises, like the new prosperity of the land he loved and served so masterly, above the far distant battle fields where so many thousands of his gray veterans lie in the sleep of fallen heroes. (\"Silent South\", 1885, The Century Illustrated Monthly Magazine)\n\nArlington House, The Robert E. Lee Memorial, also known as the Custis–Lee Mansion, is a Greek revival mansion in Arlington, Virginia, that was once Lee's home. It overlooks the Potomac River and the National Mall in Washington, D.C. During the Civil War, the grounds of the mansion were selected as the site of Arlington National Cemetery, in part to ensure that Lee would never again be able to return to his home. The United States designated the mansion as a National Memorial to Lee in 1955, a mark of widespread respect for him in both the North and South.\n\nIn Richmond, Virginia, a large equestrian statue of Lee by French sculptor Jean Antonin Mercié is the centerpiece of the city's famous Monument Avenue, which boasts four other statues to famous Confederates. This monument to Lee was unveiled on May 29, 1890; over 100,000 people attended this dedication. That has been described as \"the day white Virginia stopped admiring Gen. Robert E. Lee and started worshiping him\". Lee is also shown mounted on Traveller in Gettysburg National Military Park on top of the Virginia Monument; he is facing roughly in the direction of Pickett's Charge. Lee's portrayal on a mural on Richmond's Flood Wall on the James River, considered offensive by some, was removed in the late 1990s, but currently is back on the flood wall.\n\nAlso in Virginia, the Robert Edward Lee (sculpture) at Charlottesville was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997. Since there is no historical link between Lee and the city of Charlottesville, the City Council of Charlottesville voted in February 2017 to remove it, along with a statue of Stonewall Jackson, but this was temporarily stayed by court action. They did rename Lee Park, Emancipation Park. The prospect of the statues being removed and the parks being renamed brought many out-of-towners, described as white supremacist and alt-right, to Charlottesville in the Unite the Right rally of August, 2017, in which 3 people died. For several months the monuments were shrouded in black. As of October, 2018, the fate of the statue of Lee is unresolved. The name of the park it is located in was changed again by the City Council, to Market Street Park, in July, 2018.\n\nIn Baltimore's Wyman Park, a large double equestrian statue of Lee and Jackson is located directly across from the Baltimore Museum of Art. Designed by Laura Gardin Fraser and dedicated in 1948, Lee is depicted astride his horse Traveller next to Stonewall Jackson who is mounted on \"Little Sorrel.\" Architect John Russell Pope created the base, which was dedicated on the anniversary of the eve of the Battle of Chancellorsville. The Baltimore area of Maryland is also home to a large nature park called Robert E. Lee Memorial Park.\n\nIn 1953, two stained-glass windows – one honoring Lee, the other Stonewall Jackson – were installed in the Washington National Cathedral. The stained glass of Lee shows him on horseback at Chancellorsville; it was sponsored by the United Daughters of the Confederacy. In 2017, these windows were removed by a vote of the Cathedral's governing board. The cathedral plans to keep the windows and eventually display them in historical context.\n\nAn equestrian statue of Lee was installed in Robert E. Lee Park, in Dallas, until 2017; and in Austin, a statue of Lee is on display at the main mall of the University of Texas at Austin. A statue of Robert E. Lee is one of two statues (the other is Washington) representing Virginia in Statuary Hall in the Capitol in Washington, D.C. Lee is one of the figures depicted in bas-relief carved into Stone Mountain near Atlanta. Accompanying him on horseback in the relief are Stonewall Jackson and Jefferson Davis.\n\nThe birthday of Robert E. Lee is celebrated or commemorated in several states. In Virginia, Lee–Jackson Day is celebrated on the Friday preceding Martin Luther King, Jr. Day which is the third Monday in January. In Texas, he is celebrated as part of Confederate Heroes Day on January 19, Lee's birthday. In Alabama, Arkansas, and Mississippi, his birthday is celebrated on the same day as Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, while in Georgia, this occurred on the day after Thanksgiving before 2016, when the state stopped officially recognizing the holiday.\n\nOne United States college and one junior college are named for Lee: Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia; and Lee College in Baytown, Texas, respectively. Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University marks Lee's final resting place. Throughout the South, many primary and secondary schools were also named for him as well as private schools such as Robert E. Lee Academy in Bishopville, South Carolina.\n\nIn 1900, Lee was one of the first 29 individuals selected for the Hall of Fame for Great Americans (the first Hall of Fame in the United States), designed by Stanford White, on the Bronx, New York, campus of New York University, now a part of Bronx Community College. However, his bust was removed in August 2017 by order of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo.\n\nIn 1862, the newly formed Confederate Navy purchased a 642-ton iron-hulled side-wheel gunboat, built in at Glasgow, Scotland, and gave her the name of CSS \"Robert E. Lee\" in honor of this Confederate General. During the next year, she became one of the South's most famous Confederate blockade runners, successfully making more than twenty runs through the Union blockade.\n\nThe Mississippi River steamboat \"Robert E. Lee\" was named for Lee after the Civil War. It was the participant in an 1870 St. Louis – New Orleans race with the \"Natchez VI\", which was featured in a Currier and Ives lithograph. The \"Robert E. Lee\" won the race. The steamboat inspired the 1912 song \"Waiting for the Robert E. Lee\" by Lewis F. Muir and L. Wolfe Gilbert. In more modern times, the , a built in 1958, was named for Lee, as was the M3 Lee tank, produced in 1941 and 1942.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Virginia issues an optional license plate honoring Lee, making reference to him as 'The Virginia Gentleman'. In February 2014, a road on Fort Bliss previously named for Lee was renamed to honor Buffalo Soldiers.\n\nA recent biographer, Jonathan Horn, outlines the unsuccessful efforts in Washington to memorialize Lee in the naming of the Arlington Memorial Bridge after both Grant and Lee.\n\n\nLee is a main character in the Shaara Family novels \"The Killer Angels\" (1974, \"Gettysburg\"), \"Gods and Generals\" (1988), and \"The Last Full Measure\" (2000), as well as the film adaptations of \"Gettysburg\" (1993) and \"Gods and Generals\" (2003). He is played by Martin Sheen in the former and by Lee's descendant Robert Duvall in the latter. Lee is portrayed as a hero in the historical children's novel \"Lee and Grant at Appomattox\" (1950) by MacKinlay Kantor. His part in the Civil War is told from the perspective of his horse in Richard Adams's book \"Traveller\" (1988).\n\nLee is an obvious subject for American Civil War alternate histories. Ward Moore's \"Bring the Jubilee\" (1953), Kantor's \"If the South Had Won the Civil War\" (1960), and Harry Turtledove's \"The Guns of the South\" (1992), all have Lee ending up as President of a victorious Confederacy and freeing the slaves (or laying the groundwork for the slaves to be freed in a later decade). Although \"Bring\" and \"If\" relegate him to a set of passing references, Lee is more of a main character in the \"Guns\". He is also the prime character of Turtledove's \"Lee at the Alamo,\" which can be read on-line, and sees the opening of the Civil War drastically altered so as to affect Lee's personal priorities considerably. Turtledove's \"War Between the Provinces\" series is an allegory of the Civil War told in the language of fairy tales, with Lee appearing as a knight named \"Duke Edward of Arlington.\" Lee is also a knight in \"The Charge of Lee's Brigade\" in \"Alternate Generals\" volume 1, written by Turtledove's friend S.M. Stirling and featuring Lee, whose Virginia is still a loyal British colony, fighting for the Crown against the Russians in Crimea. In Lee Allred's \"East of Appomattox\" in \"Alternate Generals\" volume 3, Lee is the Confederate Minister to London circa 1868, desperately seeking help for a CSA which has turned out poorly suited to independence. Robert Skimin's \"Grey Victory\" features Lee as a supporting character preparing to run for the presidency in 1867.\n\nThe Dodge Charger featured in the CBS television series \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" (1979–1985) was named The General Lee. In the 2005 film based on this series, the car is driven past a statue of the General, while the car's occupants salute him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7074478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074478", "title": "Slave raiding", "text": "Slave raiding\n\nSlave raiding is a military raid for the purpose of capturing people and bringing them out of the raid area to serve as slaves. Sometimes seen as a normal part of warfare, it is nowadays widely considered a crime. Slave raiding has occurred since antiquity. Some of the earliest surviving written records of slave raiding come from Sumer (in present-day Iraq).\n\nThe act of slave raiding involves an organized and concerted attack on a settlement with the purpose of taking the areas' people. The collected new slaves are often kept in some form of slave pen or depot. From there, the slave takers will transport them to a distant place by means such as a slave ship or camel caravan. When conquered people are enslaved and remain in their place, it is not raiding. \n\nSlave raiding was a violent method of economic development where a resource shortage was addressed with the acquisition by force of the desired resource, in this case human labor. Other than the element of slavery being present, such violent seizure of a resource does not differ from similar raids to gain food or any other desired commodity. \n\nSlave raiding was a large and lucrative trade on the coasts of Africa, in ancient Europe, Mesoamerica and in medieval Asia. The Crimean-Nogai raids into East Slavic lands provided some two or three million slaves to the Ottoman Empire over the course of four centuries. The Ottoman corsairs from the 16th century onwards through 1830 engaged in razzias in Africa and the European coastal areas as far away as Iceland, capturing slaves for the Muslim slavery market in North Africa an the Middle East. The Atlantic slave trade was predicated on European countries endorsing and supporting slave raiding between African tribes to supply mass quantities of Africans, who became the workforce of agricultural plantations in the Americas. \n\nThe many alternative methods of obtaining human beings to work in indentured or other involuntary conditions, as well as technological and cultural changes, have made slave raiding rarer. \n\n"}
{"id": "21399258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21399258", "title": "Smith v. United States", "text": "Smith v. United States\n\nSmith v. United States, 508 U.S. 223 (1993), is a United States Supreme Court case that held that the exchange of a gun for drugs constituted \"use\" of the firearm for purposes of a federal statute imposing penalties for \"use\" of a firearm \"during and in relation to\" a drug trafficking crime.\n\nIn \"Watson v. United States\", 128 S.Ct. 697 (2007) the court later decided that a transaction in the opposite direction does not violate the same statute (i.e., \"Smith\" holds that one \"uses\" a gun by giving it in exchange for drugs, but \"Watson\" holds that one does \"not\" \"use\" a gun by \"receiving\" it in exchange for drugs).\n\n"}
{"id": "37989565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37989565", "title": "Stephen R. Perry", "text": "Stephen R. Perry\n\nStephen R. Perry (born 1950) is a Canadian scholar in the fields of jurisprudence and political philosophy. He is the John J. O'Brien Professor of Law and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania. From 2003 to 2005, he was the Fiorello La Guardia Professor of Law and Professor of Philosophy at NYU Law School.\n\nPerry earned his law degree at the University of Toronto and his D.Phil at Oxford University under the direction of Ronald Dworkin. He taught for nearly a decade at McGill University prior to moving to Penn in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "908799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908799", "title": "Terms of service", "text": "Terms of service\n\nTerms of service (also known as terms of use and terms and conditions, commonly abbreviated as TOS or ToS and ToU) are rules by which one must agree to abide in order to use a service. Terms of service can also be merely a disclaimer, especially regarding the use of websites.\n\nThe Terms of Service Agreement is mainly used for legal purposes by companies which provide software or services, such as browsers, e-commerce, search engines, social media, and transport services. \n\nA legitimate terms-of-service agreement is legally binding and may be subject to change. Companies can enforce the terms by refusing service. Customers can enforce by filing a suit or arbitration case if they can show they were actually harmed by a breach of the terms. There is a heightened risk of data going astray during corporate changes, including mergers, divestitures, buyouts, downsizing, etc., when data can be transferred improperly.\n\nA terms of service agreement typically contains sections pertaining to one or more of the following topics:\n\n\nA 2013 documentary called \"Terms and Conditions May Apply\" publicized issues in terms of service. It was reviewed by 54 professional critics and won for Best Feature Documentary at the Newport Beach Film Festival 2013 and for Best Documentary at the Sonoma Valley Film Festival 2013.\n\nClickwrapped.com rates 15 companies on their policies and practices with respect to using users' data, disclosing users' data, amending the terms, closing users' accounts, requiring arbitration, fining users, and clarity. \n\nTerms of Service; Didn't Read is a group effort that rates 67 companies' terms of service and privacy policies, though its site says the ratings are \"outdated\". It also has browser add-ons that deliver the ratings while at the website of a rated company. Members of the group score each clause in each terms of service document, but \"the same clause can have different scores depending on the context of the services it applies to.\" The Services tab lists companies in no apparent order, with brief notes about significant clauses from each company. In particular, competitors are not listed together so that users can compare them. A link gives longer notes. It does not typically link to the exact wording from the company. The Topics tab lists topics (like \"Personal Data\" or \"Guarantee\"), with brief notes from some companies about aspects of the topic.\n\nTOSBack.org, supported by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, lists changes in terms and policies sequentially, 10 per page, for 160 pages, or nearly 1,600 changes, for \"many online services\". There does not seem to be a way to find all changes for a particular company, or even which companies were tracked in any time period. It links to Terms of Service; Didn't Read, though that typically does not have any evaluation of the most recent changes listed at TOSBack.org.\n\nTerms of service are subject to change and vary from service to service, so several initiatives exist to increase public awareness by clarifying such differences in terms, including:\n\nIn 1994, the \"Washington Times\" reported that America Online (AOL) was selling detailed personal information about its subscribers to direct marketers, without notifying or asking its subscribers; this article led to the revision of AOL's terms of service three years later.\n\nOn July 1, 1997, AOL posted revised terms service to take effect July 31, 1997, without formally notifying its users of the changes made, most notably a new policy which would grant third-party business partners, including a marketing firm, access to its members' telephone numbers. Several days before the changes were to take effect, an AOL member informed the media of the changes and the following news coverage incited a large influx of internet traffic on the AOL page which enabled users to opt out of having their names and numbers on marketing lists.\n\nIn 2011 George Hotz and others were sued by Sony Corporation. Sony claimed that by violating the terms of service of the PlayStation Network, Hotz and others were committing breach of contract.\n\nOn December 17, 2012, Instagram announced a change to its terms of use that caused a widespread outcry from its user base. The controversial clause stated: \"you agree that a business or other entity may pay us to display your username, likeness, photos (along with any associated metadata), and/or actions you take, in connection with paid or sponsored content or promotions, without any compensation to you\".\n\nThere was no apparent option to opt out of the changed terms of use.\nThe move garnered severe criticism from privacy advocates as well as consumers. After one day, Instagram apologized saying that it would remove the controversial language from its terms of use. Kevin Systrom, a co-founder of Instagram, responded to the controversy, stating,\n\nSome terms of service are worded to allow unilateral amendment, where one party can change the agreement at any time without the other party's consent. A 2012 court case \"In re Zappos.com, Inc., Customer Data Security Breach Litigation\" held that Zappos.com's terms of use, with one such clause, was unenforceable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54972", "title": "Treaty of Nanking", "text": "Treaty of Nanking\n\nThe Treaty of Nanking (Nanjing) was a peace treaty which ended the First Opium War (1839–42) between the United Kingdom and the Qing dynasty of China on 29 August 1842. It was the first of what the Chinese later called the \"unequal treaties\".\n\nIn the wake of China's military defeat, with British warships poised to attack Nanking, British and Chinese officials negotiated on board HMS \"Cornwallis\" anchored at the city. On 29 August, British representative Sir Henry Pottinger and Qing representatives Qiying, Yilibu, and Niu Jian signed the treaty, which consisted of thirteen articles. The treaty was ratified by the Daoguang Emperor on 27 October and Queen Victoria on 28 December. Ratification was exchanged in Hong Kong on 26 June 1843. A copy of the treaty is kept by the British government while another copy is kept by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Republic of China at the National Palace Museum in Taipei.\n\nThe first working draft for articles of a treaty was prepared at the Foreign Office in London in February 1840. The Foreign Office was aware that preparing a treaty containing Chinese and English characters would need special consideration. Given the distance separating the countries, it was realised that some flexibility and a departure from established procedure in preparing treaties might be required.\n\nThe fundamental purpose of the treaty was to change the framework of foreign trade imposed by the Canton System, which had been in force since 1760. Under Article V, the treaty abolished the former monopoly of the \"Cohong\" and their Thirteen Factories in Canton. Four additional \"treaty ports\" opened for foreign trade alongside Canton (Shameen Island from 1859 until 1943): Amoy (Xiamen until 1930), Foochowfoo (Fuzhou), Ningpo (Ningbo) and Shanghai (until 1943), where foreign merchants were to be allowed to trade with anyone they wished. Britain also gained the right to send consuls to the treaty ports, which were given the right to communicate directly with local Chinese officials (Article II). The treaty stipulated that trade in the treaty ports should be subject to fixed tariffs, which were to be agreed upon between the British and the Qing governments (Article X).\n\nThe Qing government was obliged to pay the British government six million silver dollars for the opium that had been confiscated by Lin Zexu in 1839 (Article IV), 3 million dollars in compensation for debts that the Hong merchants in Canton owed British merchants (Article V), and a further 12 million dollars in war reparations for the cost of the war (Article VI). The total sum of 21 million dollars was to be paid in installments over three years and the Qing government would be charged an annual interest rate of 5 percent for the money that was not paid in a timely manner (Article VII).\n\nThe Qing government undertook to release all British prisoners of war (Article VIII) and to give a general amnesty to all Chinese subjects who had cooperated with the British during the war (Article IX).\n\nThe British on their part, undertook to withdraw all of their troops from Nanking, the Grand Canal and the military post at Zhenhai, as well as not to interfere with China trade generally, after the emperor had given his assent to the treaty and the first installment of money had been received (Article XII). British troops would remain in Gulangyu and Zhaobaoshan until the Qing government had paid reparations in full (Article XII).\n\nIn 1841, a rough outline for a treaty was sent for the guidance of Plenipotentiary Charles Elliot. It had a blank after the words \"the cession of the \"islands\" of\". Pottinger sent this old draft treaty on shore, with the letter \"s\" struck out of \"islands\" and the words \"Hong Kong\" placed after it. Robert Montgomery Martin, treasurer of Hong Kong, wrote in an official report:\nThe terms of peace having been read, Elepoo the senior commissioner paused, expecting something more, and at length said \"is that all?\" Mr. Morrison enquired of Lieutenant-colonel Malcolm [Pottinger's secretary] if there was anything else, and being answered in the negative, Elepoo immediately and with great tact closed the negotiation by saying, \"\"all shall be granted—it is settled—it is finished\".\"\nThe Qing government agreed to make Hong Kong Island a crown colony, ceding it to the British Queen \"in perpetuity\" (, \"Cháng yuǎn\", in the Chinese version of the treaty), to provide British traders with a harbour where they could \"careen and refit their ships and keep stores for that purpose\" (Article III). Pottinger was later appointed the first governor of Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1860, the colony was extended with the Kowloon peninsula and in 1898, the Second Convention of Peking further expanded the colony with the 99-year lease of the New Territories. In 1984, the governments of the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China (PRC) concluded the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the Question of Hong Kong, under which the sovereignty of the leased territories, together with Hong Kong Island and Kowloon (south of Boundary Street) ceded under the Convention of Peking (1860), was transferred to the PRC on 1 July 1997.\n\nThe treaty was sealed by interpreter John Robert Morrison for the British and Wang Tajin for the Chinese. Harry Parkes, who was a student of Chinese under Morrison, gave his account of the ceremony:\nThere were four copies of the Treaty signed and sealed. They were bound in worked yellow silk, one Treaty in English and the same in Chinese stitched and bound together formed a copy. This being finished they all came out of the after-cabin and sat down to tiffin, and the different officers seated themselves all round the table, making plenty of guests. Almost directly after the Treaty was signed, a yellow flag for China at the main and a Union Jack for England at the mizen were hoisted, and at the same time a royal salute of twenty-one guns was fired.\nThe Daoguang Emperor gave his assent for the treaty on 8 September. After his assent arrived in Nanking on 15 September, Pottinger's secretary George Alexander Malcolm was dispatched on board the steamer \"Auckland\" the next morning to the Court of St James's with a copy for ratification by Queen Victoria. The emperor ratified the treaty on 27 October and Queen Victoria added her written assent on 28 December. Ratification was exchanged in Hong Kong on 26 June 1843.\n\nBecause of the brevity of the Treaty of Nanking and its terms being phrased only as general stipulations, the British and Chinese representatives agreed that a supplementary treaty should be concluded to establish more detailed regulations for relations. On 3October 1843, the parties concluded the supplementary Treaty of the Bogue at the Bocca Tigris outside Canton.\n\nNevertheless, the treaties of 1842–43 left several unsettled issues. In particular they did not resolve the status of the opium trade. Although the Treaty of Wanghia with the Americans in 1844 explicitly banned Americans from selling opium, the trade continued as both the British and American merchants were only subject to the legal control of their consuls. The opium trade was later legalised in the Treaties of Tianjin, which China concluded after the Second Opium War resulted in another defeat for the Qing dynasty.\n\nThe Nanking Treaty ended the old Canton System and created a new framework for China's foreign relations and overseas trade which would last for almost a hundred years. From the Chinese perspective, the most injurious terms were the fixed trade tariff, extraterritoriality, and the most favoured nation provisions. These were conceded partly out of expediency and partly because Qing officials did not yet know of international law or understand the long-term consequences. The tariff fixed at 5% was higher than before, the concept of extraterritoriality seemed to put the burden on foreigners to police themselves, and most favoured nation treatment appeared to set the foreigners one against the others. Although China regained tariff autonomy in the 1920s, extraterritoriality was not formally abolished until 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70237", "title": "United States bankruptcy court", "text": "United States bankruptcy court\n\nUnited States bankruptcy courts are courts created under Article I of the United States Constitution. The current system of bankruptcy courts was created by the United States Congress in 1978, effective April 1, 1984. United States bankruptcy courts function as units of the district courts and have subject-matter jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases. The federal district courts have original and exclusive jurisdiction over all cases arising under the bankruptcy code, (see ), and bankruptcy cases cannot be filed in state court. Each of the 94 federal judicial districts handles bankruptcy matters.\n\nTechnically, the United States district courts have subject matter jurisdiction over bankruptcy matters (see ). However, each such district court may, by order, \"refer\" bankruptcy matters to the bankruptcy court (see ). As a practical matter, most district courts have a standing \"reference\" order to that effect, so that all bankruptcy cases in that district are handled, at least initially, by the bankruptcy court. In unusual circumstances, a district court may in a particular case \"withdraw the reference\" (i.e., take the case or a particular proceeding within the case away from the bankruptcy court and decide the matter itself) under .\n\nThe overwhelming majority of all proceedings in bankruptcy are held before a United States bankruptcy judge, whose decisions are subject to appeals to the district court. In some judicial circuits, appeals may be taken to a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel (BAP). The bankruptcy judges in each judicial district in regular active service constitute a \"unit\" of the applicable United States district court (see ). The bankruptcy judge is appointed for a renewable term of 14 years by the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicable district is located (see ).\n\nThe Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure (FRBP) govern procedure in the U.S. bankruptcy courts.\n\nDecisions of the Bankruptcy Courts are not collected and published in an official reporter produced by the government. Instead, the \"de facto\" official source for opinions of the Bankruptcy Courts is \"West's Bankruptcy Reporter\", published privately by Thomson West.\n\nBankruptcy courts appoint a trustee to represent the interests of the creditors and administer the cases. The U.S. Trustee appoints Chapter 7 trustees for a renewable period of 1 year, Chapter 13 trustees are \"standing trustees\" who administrator cases in a specific geographic region.\n"}
{"id": "36236359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36236359", "title": "United States v. GlaxoSmithKline", "text": "United States v. GlaxoSmithKline\n\nUnited States v. GlaxoSmithKline was a case before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Robert J. Merena was one of the first who filed claims against SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories on November 12, 1993. The complaints alleged that GlaxoSmithKline, which operated a system of clinical laboratories, adopted myriad complicated procedures for the purpose of defrauding state and federal healthcare programs, in particular Medicare and Medicaid. The U.S. Justice Department publicly praised Robert Merena for his \"cooperation and support\" in helping the government collect the largest settlement ever involving a whistle-blower lawsuit. The SmithKline settlement is considered to be one of the largest whistleblower assisted recoveries in the history of the United States.\n\nIn 1992, the United States began to suspect that SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories and several other medical laboratories in the United States had adopted a scheme that allowed them to bill the federal government for unauthorized and unnecessary laboratory tests. The laboratories had \"bundled\" a standard grouping of blood tests with some additional tests and had then marketed this grouping to doctors by leading them to believe that the additional tests would not increase costs to Medicare and other government-sponsored health programs. After the ordering of tests, the laboratories \"unbundled\" the additional tests from the standard grouping for purposes of billing. In many cases, treating physicians had made no determination that the additional tests were medically necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of patients;  rather the physicians had preferred to order the tests solely because they were sold as a package with other tests that they had deemed necessary. As a result, the laboratories submitted bills-and received payment-for tests that were medically unnecessary.\n\nThe scheme later became popular as \"automated chemistry\" and attracted national attention in December 1992 when one of the contractors that had engaged in the practice, National Health Laboratories, settled a lawsuit brought under the False Claims Act for $111 million. Due to these allegations public started taking interest because the media reported that the government had issued comprehensive subpoenas to GlaxoSmithKline and other laboratories.\n\nIn November 1993, relator Robert Marena, an SKB employee, filed a qui tam action against GlaxoSmithKline in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. His complaint contained eight separate claims under the False Claims Act. Merena's complaint alleged that SKB had defrauded the government by, inter alia, billing for tests that were not performed, double billing, paying illegal kickbacks to health care professionals, and adding tests to \"automated chemistry\" profiles and then separately billing for those tests.\n\nAfter a month, relator Glenn Grossenbacher, an attorney, filed a second qui tam action against GlaxoSmithKline in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. Relators Kevin Spear, Jack Dowden, and the Berkeley Community Law Center (collectively, \"the Spear relators\") followed in February 1995 with a suit in the Northern District of California. The courts in Texas and California transferred these actions to the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for consolidation with the Merena case.\n\nAfter Merena's action was filed, the government commenced an investigation into a series of new claims that were not part of its original investigation. At the same time, the government continued to pursue the original \"automated chemistry\" investigation that it had begun after the 1992 settlement with National Health Laboratories.\n\nLater in August 1995, the government began formal settlement negotiations with GlaxoSmithKline. The government presented GlaxoSmithKline with a written settlement framework that allocated a specific dollar amount for each alleged false claim.\n\nThe litigants of the case were Robert J. Merena, Charles W. Robinson, Jr., and Glenn Grossenbacher. Robert J. Merena left his job at GlaxoSmithKline in May 1995 and hasn't had a full-time job since. He has said he's had trouble finding another position because employers are wary of hiring a known whistle-blower. Merena, of the Reading, Pa., area, worked as a senior billing-systems analyst at a SmithKline Beecham office in Montgomery County. During his employment at GSK, he passed information to federal investigators working on the case.\n\nThe Judge Donald W. VanArtsdalen of United States District Court ruled that the three had contributed significantly to the Government's case against SmithKline. ordered the government to pay $42.3 million to three men who helped the Justice Department expose Medicare fraud at SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories Inc. The Justice Department had resisted paying the men the 15 to 25 percent share of SmithKline's settlement specified for whistleblowers by the federal False Claims Act.\n\nThe department argued that most of the $325 million settlement was obtained through its nationwide \"Labscam\" investigations that had nothing to do with the men, Robert J. Merena, Charles W. Robinson, Jr., and Glenn Grossenbacher. But U.S. District Judge Donald W. VanArtsdalen ruled Wednesday that they made a major contribution to the government's case and that they helped bring in nearly all of the settlement.\n\nI am left with the impression that the attorneys in charge of the Labscam investigation ... seek to take far more credit for the overall success of the proceedings than is rightly due.\n\nPhiladelphia-based SmithKline agreed to pay the government $325 million which is considered as one of the largest civil settlement ever in a whistle-blower lawsuit. The company settled after the government alleged it paid kickbacks to doctors, billed the government for laboratory tests not performed and committed other violations.\nSmithKline has denied the allegations, saying the violations were unintentional and the result of ambiguities in regulations and guidelines.\n\nWhen interest and payments to state Medicare funds were taken into account, the final settlement came to about $321 million. VanArtsdalen said Merena and the other whistle-blowers accounted for all but about $15 million of that total. The government failed to reach an agreement with litigants Merena and Grossenbacher on the amount that they would receive from the settlement agreement. The government maintained that Merena was entitled to approximately $10 million of the $65 million attributable to the non-\"automated chemistry\" claims and has paid Merena this amount. The government and the Spear relators have a proposed agreement that, if approved, will award the Spear relators 15% of the $13 million that the government attributed to a claim called the \"CBC Indices\" claim.\n\nThe government previously agreed to pay the whistle-blowers a minimum of $9.7 million but only if they dropped claims to a larger portion.\n\nBut the judge's ruling adds an additional $42.3 million, meaning the men will share about 17 percent of the money the whistle-blowers helped bring in. The total award, $52 million, is considered to be the largest whistleblower award to date.\n\n"}
