{"id": "30862431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862431", "title": "Act of Sederunt", "text": "Act of Sederunt\n\nAn Act of Sederunt ( ; meaning a meeting or sitting of a court) is secondary legislation made by the Court of Session, the supreme civil court of Scotland, to regulate the proceedings of Scottish courts and tribunals hearing civil matters. Originally made under an Act of the Parliament of Scotland of 1532, the modern power to make Acts of Sederunt is largely derived from the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014. Since 2013, draft Acts have also been prepared by the Scottish Civil Justice Council and submitted to the Court of Session for approval.\n\nFollowing Scottish devolution and the establishment of the Scottish Parliament, Acts of Sederunt are made as Scottish Statutory Instruments. Previously, Acts were made as United Kingdom Statutory Instruments, and before that were a separate class of legislation.\n\nThe Court of Session—more accurately the College of Justice—was established by the Parliament of Scotland under James V in 1532. The Act of Parliament establishing the Court, later named the College of Justice Act 1532, provided that the Court would have \"such [...] rules and statutes as shall please the king's grace to make and give to them\" and \"ordain[ed] the same to have effect in all points and [that the] processes, sentences and decreets shall have the same strength, force and effect as the decreets of the lords of session had in all times bygone.\" That is, that the rules of the Court of Session were to be made by the King and to have the same force as the decrees of the Lords of Session had before.\n\nAlthough established in 1532, it wasn't until the passing of the College of Justice Act 1540 (originally titled \"Ratification of the institution of the college of justice\") that the Court of Session gained the power to make law through Acts of Sederunt. The Act granted the Lord President, the Vice-President, and the Senators of the College of Justice the \"power to make such acts, statutes and ordinance as they shall think expedient for ordering of processes and the hasty expedition of justice.\"\n\nThe Courts Act 1672 (originally \"Act concerning the regulation of the judicatories\") created the High Court of Justiciary, the supreme criminal court of Scotland, by attaching five of the Lords of Session to the Lord Justice General and Lord Justice Clerk. The Courts Act also provided that \"the judges of that court [...] regulate the inferior officers thereof, and order every other thing concerning the said court,\" and so created the distinction between Acts of Sederunt and Acts of Adjournal which continues to exist to this day.\n\nFollowing a 19th-century reforming of the High Court of Justiciary, all Lords of Session were \"ex officio\" Lords Commissioners of Justiciary, instead of the original five ordained by the Courts Act. Although that reformation was repealed, its effect was replicated by the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, which provided that the Lord President of the Court of Session was also to hold the office of Lord Justice General.\n\nThe powers of the Court of Session to make Acts of Sederunt were partially consolidated by the Administration of Justice (Scotland) Act 1933, which also made significant changes to the structure and operations of the Court. One of these significant changes was the establishing of a Rules Council, composed of the Lord President as well as Court of Session judges and practising lawyers, to propose Acts of Sederunt to the Court. The Act also created a Sheriff Court Rules Council, to carry out the same functions but in relation to the sheriff courts.\n\nThe Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971 enabled the Court of Session to regulate the sheriff courts and Sheriff Appeal Court when they heard civil matters. The Act also dissolved the Sheriff Court Rules Council created by the Administration of Justice (Scotland) Act 1933, and created a new Sheriff Court Rules Council to continually review sheriff court procedure and submit to the Court of Session draft Acts of Sederunt for regulating sheriff courts.\n\nThe Court of Session Act 1988 was another consolidating Act, now with sections relating to Acts of Sederunt largely repealed or modified by the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014, that also altered the structure of the Court of Session. The remaining powers to make Acts of Sederunt relate to summary trials—although the actual power is now derived from the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014—and the considering of applications to appeal to the Inner House by a single judge.\n\nThe Court of Session Rules Council and Sheriff Court Rules Council were dissolved by the Scottish Civil Justice Council and Criminal Legal Assistance Act 2013, which established the Scottish Civil Justice Council as their replacement. Originally, the Council's only function in relation to Acts of Sederunt was to prepare draft civil procedure rules for the Court of Session and sheriff courts, but this was expanded by the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 to include preparing draft procedural rules for the Sheriff Appeal Court and draft fees rules, and by the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016 to include draft inquiry procedure rules.\n\nThe majority of the Court of Session's current power to regulate is derived from the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014, which consolidated many of the existing powers and, in conjunction with the Tribunals (Scotland) Act 2014, extended the power of the Court of Session to enable the Court to make rules for tribunals.\n\nThe Court of Session's power to create Acts of Sederunt was extended by the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016 to include the power to regulate the practice and procedure of public inquiries and fatal accident inquiries.\nAs with other secondary legislation, an Act of Sederunt can only make law within the scope set out by an enabling act—an item of primary legislation from which power to make secondary legislation is derived. Most powers of the Court of Session were consolidated into the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014, but other powers continue to be provided by the Public Records (Scotland) Act 1937, the Court of Session Act 1988, the Judiciary and Courts (Scotland) Act 2008, the Legal Services (Scotland) Act 2010, the Tribunals (Scotland) Act 2014, the Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016, and others.\n\nA non-exhaustive summary of these powers is provided below. In exercising these powers, the Court of Session can amend or repeal any enactment, including primary legislation, if it relates to matters an Act of Sederunt may cover.\n\nNote, however, that the power to regulate admission into the Faculty of Advocates is effectively delegated from the Court of Session to the Faculty, as the Court legislated to require that those seeking admission meet criteria set out by the Faculty.\n\nRules for the functioning of the Court of Session are developed by the Scottish Civil Justice Council, which was established by the Scottish Civil Justice Council and Criminal Legal Assistance Act 2013. The Council prepares draft rules of procedure for the civil courts and advises the Lord President on the development of the civil justice system in Scotland. The SCJC will consider changes to practice and procedure in response to policy initiatives, by specific request, or of its own accord.\n\nMembership of the Council is provided for in the 2013 Act. The Council is chaired by the Lord President, Lord Gill, and membership includes:\n\n\nRules for the functioning of civil procedure in the sheriff courts are also prepared by the Scottish Civil Justice Council.\n\nActs of Sederunt, like other legislation in the United Kingdom, are introduced by enacting formulae. Those for the regulation of procedure in the Court of Session begin:\n\nThose for the regulation of procedure in the sheriff courts begin:\n\nThose for setting the fees of messengers-at-arms are enacted:\n\nThose for setting the fees of sheriff officers are enacted:\n"}
{"id": "50855276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50855276", "title": "Akali Dal – Sant Fateh Singh", "text": "Akali Dal – Sant Fateh Singh\n\nAkali Dal – Sant Fateh Singh was one of several hard-line splinter groups founded by Sant Fateh Singh. Akali Dal – Sant Fateh Singh was formed in 1962. It is led by Sant Fateh Singh. The party was a Sikh-centered political party in the Indian state of Punjab. The party was created due to disagreement between Master Tara Singh and Sant Fateh Singh. The party gained control of the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee in October 1962. In the Gurdwara elections in January 1965, the party annexed 90 of the seats, while Master Tara Singh's party could manage only 45. In 1967 during Punjab Legislative Assembly election Party got 24 seats and with the support of other Parties and Independents under the leadership of Gurnam Singh formed the government but resigned when merged with Shiromani Akali Dal in November 1967\n\nThe party was able to win three seats in Indian general election, 1967.\n"}
{"id": "33074355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33074355", "title": "Anjali Gupta", "text": "Anjali Gupta\n\nFlying Officer Anjali Gupta was an officer in the Indian Air Force. She was the first female officer in India to be court martialled. She was working at the Aircraft Systems and Testing Establishment in Bangalore.\nThe daughter of a schoolteacher mother and a bank officer father, she was the second of three sisters. Anjali completed an M.Phil. in Sociology from Delhi University and was first posted at Belgaum in 2001.\nIn February 2005, Anjali Gupta filed a case against three of her superiors at a police station in Bangalore. The police asked her to resolve the issue with her superiors. Anjali Gupta later approached the Karnataka High Court, demanding an enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation. A few days after Anjali Gupta alleged in a TV interview that she was a victim of sexual harassment at the workplace, General Court Martial (GCM) proceedings against her were initiated.\n\nShe was placed under house arrest after she made a statement before the Karnataka State Commission for Women that she \"is on the verge of taking her life\" because of alleged harassment by her superiors. IAF administration had her examined by a panel of psychiatrists comprising doctors from National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences and Institute of Aerospace Medicine. She was later admitted to Command Hospital.\nFalsely claiming travel allowance and throwing a breakfast parcel of her senior's were among the fifteen offenses she was initially accused of. In the final chargesheet, the number of charges was reduced to seven.\n\nAnjali Gupta was dismissed from service in 2005 after a five-member General Court Martial (GCM) jury convicted her of misappropriating funds, insubordination and failure to report for duty.\n\nOn 11 September 2011, Anjali Gupta was found hanging at a relative's home in Bhopal. Police have detained her former colleague Group Captain Amit Gupta for questioning over her alleged suicide. Anjali Gupta's parents have informed the media that Group Captain Amit Gupta and Anjali were in a relationship and living together.\n"}
{"id": "266499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266499", "title": "Appanage", "text": "Appanage\n\nAn appanage or apanage () or () is the grant of an estate, title, office, or other thing of value to a younger male child of a sovereign, who would otherwise have no inheritance under the system of primogeniture. It was common in much of Europe.\n\nThe system of appanage greatly influenced the territorial construction of France and the German states, and explains why many of the former provinces of France had coats of arms which were modified versions of the king's arms.\n\nLate Latin \"*appanaticum\", from \"appanare\" or \"adpanare\" 'to give bread' (\"panis\"), a \"pars pro toto\" for food and other necessities, hence for a \"subsistence\" income, notably in kind, as from assigned land.\n\nAn appanage was a concession of a fief by the sovereign to his younger sons, while the eldest son became king on the death of his father. Appanages were considered as part of the inheritance transmitted to the puîsné (French \"puis\", \"later\", + \"né\", \"born [masc.]\") sons; the word \"Juveigneur\" (from the Latin comparative \"iuvenior\", 'younger [masc.]'; in Brittany's customary law only the youngest brother) was specifically used for the royal princes holding an \"appanage\". These lands could not be sold, neither hypothetically nor as a dowry, and returned to the royal domain on the extinction of the princely line. Daughters were excluded from the system: Salic law then generally prohibited daughters from inheriting land and also from acceding to the throne.\n\nThe system of appanage has played a particularly important role in France. It developed there with the extension of royal authority from the 13th century, then disappeared from the late Middle Ages with the affirmation of the exclusive authority of the royal state. It strongly influenced the territorial construction, explaining the arms of several provinces. The prerogative of Burgundy is also the origin of the Belgian, Luxembourg and Dutch States, through the action of its dukes favored by their position in the court of the kings of France.\n\nAppanages were used to sweeten the pill of the primogeniture. It has traditionally been used to prevent the revolt of younger sons who would otherwise have no inheritance, while avoiding the weakening of the kingdom by equal division. Indeed, according to Frankish custom, the inheritance was to be divided among the surviving sons. The kingdom was considered family property, and so many divisions occurred under the Merovingians (the first following the death of Clovis I in 511), and later under the rule of the Carolingians in which the Treaty of Verdun of 843 gave birth to independent territories.\n\nThe consequences of equal division (dismemberment of the kingdom, civil wars, conflicts between heirs, etc.) led to the adoption of the appanage system, which has the advantage of diverting the claim of younger sons to the crown, which was the inheritance of the eldest. In addition, over time, the system guarantees the unity of the royal domain to the senior heir.\n\nHugh Capet was elected King of the Franks on the death of Louis V in 987. The Capetian dynasty broke away from the Frankish custom of dividing the kingdom among all the sons. The eldest son alone became King and received the royal domain except for the appanages. Unlike their predecessors, their hold on the crown was initially tenuous. They could not afford to divide the kingdom among all their sons, and the royal domain (the territory directly controlled by the king) was very small, inititially consisting solely of the Île-de-France. Most of the Capetians endeavored to add to the royal domain by the incorporation of additional fiefs, large or small, and thus gradually obtained the direct lordship over almost all of France.\n\nThe first king to create an appanage is Henry I of France in 1032, when he gave the Duchy of Burgundy to his brother Robert I, whose descendants retained the duchy until 1361 with the extinction of the first Capetian House of Burgundy by the death of Philip de Rouvres. Louis VIII and Louis IX also created appanages. The king who created the most powerful appanages for his sons was John II of France. His youngest son, Philip the Bold, founded the second Capetian House of Burgundy in 1363. By marrying the heiress of Flanders, Philip also became ruler of the Low Countries.\n\nKing Charles V tried to remove the appanage system, but in vain. Provinces conceded in appanage tended to become \"de facto\" independent and the authority of the king was recognized there reluctantly. In particular the line of Valois Dukes of Burgundy caused considerable trouble to the French crown, with which they were often at war, often in open alliance with the English. Theoretically appanages could be reincorporated into the royal domain but only if the last lord had no male heirs. Kings tried as much as possible to rid themselves of the most powerful appanages. Louis XI retook the Duchy of Burgundy at the death of its last duke, Charles the Bold. Francis I confiscated the Bourbonnais, after the treason in 1523 of his commander in chief, Charles III, Duke of Bourbon, the 'constable of Bourbon' (died 1527 in the service of Emperor Charles V).\n\nThe first article of the Edict of Moulins (1566) declared that the royal domain (defined in the second article as all the land controlled by the crown for more than ten years) could not be alienated, except in two cases: by interlocking, in the case of financial emergency, with a perpetual option to repurchase the land; and to form an appanage, which must return to the crown in its original state on the extinction of the male line. The \"apanagist\" (incumbent) therefore could not separate himself from his appanage in any way.\n\nAfter Charles V of France, a clear distinction had to be made between titles given as names to children in France, and true appanages. At their birth the French princes received a title independent of an appanage. Thus, the Duke of Anjou, grandson of Louis XIV, never possessed Anjou and never received any revenue from this province. The king waited until the prince had reached adulthood and was about to marry before endowing him with an appanage. The goal of the appanage was to provide him with a sufficient income to maintain his noble rank. The fief given in appanage could be the same as the title given to the prince, but this was not necessarily the case. Only seven appanages were given from 1515 to 1789.\n\nAppanages were abolished in 1792 before the proclamation of the Republic. The youngest princes from then on were to receive a grant of money but no territory.\n\nAppanages were reestablished under the first French empire by Napoleon Bonaparte and confirmed by the Bourbon restoration-king Louis XVIII. The last of the appanages, the Orléanais, was reincorporated to the French crown when the Duke of Orléans, Louis-Philippe, became king of the French in 1830.\n\nThe word \"apanage\" is still used in French figuratively, in a non-historic sense: \"to have appanage over something\" is used, often in an ironic and negative sense, to claim exclusive possession over something. For example, \"cows have appanage over prions.\"\n\n\n\n\nAlthough Napoleon restored the idea of apanage in 1810 for his sons, none were ever granted, nor were any new apanages created by the restoration monarchs.\n\nEnglish and British monarchs frequently granted appanages to younger sons of the monarch. Most famously, the Houses of York and Lancaster, whose feuding over the succession to the English throne after the end of the main line of the House of Plantagenet caused the Wars of the Roses, were both established when the Duchies of York and Lancaster were given as appanages for Edmund of Langley and John of Gaunt, the younger sons of King Edward III.\n\nIn modern times, the Duchy of Cornwall is the permanent statutory appanage of the monarch's eldest son, intended to support him until such time as he inherits the Crown. Other titles have continued to be granted to junior members of the royal family, but without associated grants of land directly connected with those titles, any territorial rights over the places named in the titles, or any income directly derived from those lands or places.\n\nThe defunct Kingdom of Strathclyde was granted as an appanage to the future David I of Scotland by his brother Edgar, King of Scots. Remnants of this can be found within the patrimony of the Prince of Scotland, currently Charles, Duke of Rothesay.\n\nIn the only crusader state of equal rank in protocol to the states of Western Europe, the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the County of Jaffa and Ascalon was often granted as an appanage.\n\nWith the installation of the House of Braganza on the Portuguese throne in 1640, an official appanage was created for the second eldest son of the monarch, the House of the Infantado. The Infantado included several land grants and palaces, along with a heightened royal pension.\n\nThe practice is certainly not unique to western feudalism\n\nThe royal family of the Mongol Empire owned the largest appanages in the world because of their enormous empire. In 1206, Genghis Khan awarded large tracts of land to his family members and loyal companions, most of whom were of common origin. Shares of booty were distributed much more widely. Empresses, princesses, and meritorious servants, as well as children of concubines, all received full shares including war prisoners. For example, Kublai summoned two siege engineers from the Ilkhanate, and after their success rewarded them with lands. After the Mongol conquest in 1238, the port cities in Crimea paid the Jochids custom duties and the revenues were divided among all Chingisid princes in Mongol Empire in accordance with the appanage system. As loyal allies, the Kublaids in East Asia and the Ilkhanids in Persia sent clerics, doctors, artisans, scholars, engineers and administrators to and received revenues from the appanages in each other's khanates.\n\nThe Great Khan Möngke divided up shares or appanages in Persia and made redistribution in Central Asia in 1251-1256. Although the Chagatai Khanate was the smallest in size, the Chagatai Khans held the cities of Kat and Khiva in Khorazm, and some cities and villages in Shanxi and Iran, as well as their nomadic grounds in Central Asia. The first Ilkhan, Hulagu, owned 25,000 households of silk-workers in China, valleys in Tibet, and lands in Mongolia. In 1298, his descendant Ghazan of Persia sent envoys with precious gifts to the Great Khan Temür Khan, and asked for the share of lands and revenues held by his great-grandfather in the Yuan lands (China and Mongolia). It is claimed that Ghazan received revenues that were not sent since the time of Möngke Khan.\n\nThe appanage holders demanded excessive revenues and freed themselves from taxes. Ögedei decreed that nobles could appoint darughachi and judges in the appanages instead of direct distribution without the permission of the Great Khan, thanks to the brilliant Khitan minister Yelü Chucai. Both Güyük and Möngke restricted the autonomy of the appanages, but Kublai Khan continued Ögedei's regulations. Ghazan also prohibited any misfeasence of appanage holders in the Ilkhanate, and Yuan councillor Temuder restricted Mongol nobles' excessive powers in appanages in China and Mongolia. Kublai's successor Temür abolished imperial son-in-law King Chungnyeol of Goryeo's 358 departments which caused financial pressures to Korean people, though, Mongols gave them some autonomy.\n\nThe appanage system was severely affected beginning with the civil strife in the Mongol Empire in 1260-1304. Nevertheless, this system survived. For example, Abagha of the Ilkhanate allowed Möngke Temür of the Golden Horde to collect revenues from silk workshops in northern Persia in 1270, and Baraq of the Chagatai Khanate sent his Muslim vizier to the Ilkhanate in 1269, ostensibly to investigate his appanages there. (The vizier's real mission was to spy on the Ilkhanids.) After a peace treaty declared among Mongol Khans: Temür, Duwa, Chapar, Tokhta and Oljeitu in 1304, the system began to see a recovery. During the reign of Tugh Temür, Yuan court received a third of revenues of the cities of Transoxiana (Mawarannahr) under Chagatai Khans while Chagatai elites such as Eljigidey, Duwa Temür, Tarmashirin were given lavish presents and sharing in the Yuan Dynasty's patronage of Buddhist temples. Tugh Temür was also given some Russian captives by Chagatai prince Changshi as well as Kublai's future khatun Chabi had servant Ahmad Fanakati from Fergana Valley before her marriage. In 1326, Golden Horde started sending tributes to Great Khans of Yuan Dynasty again. By 1339, Ozbeg and his successors had received annually 24 thousand ding in paper currency from their Chinese appanages in Shanxi, Cheli and Hunan. H. H. Howorth noted that Ozbeg's envoy required his master's shares from the Yuan court, the headquarters of the Mongol world, for the establishment of new post stations in 1336. This communication ceased only with the breakup, succession struggles and rebellions of Mongol Khanates.\n\nAfter the fall of the Mongol Empire in 1368, the Mongols continued the tradition of appanage system. They were divided into districts ruled by hereditary noblemen. The units in such systems were called \"Tumen\" and \"Otog\" during Northern Yuan Dynasty in Mongolia. However, the Oirats called their appanage unit \"ulus\" or \"anggi\". Appanages were called banners (Khoshuu) under the Qing Dynasty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35911437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35911437", "title": "Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India", "text": "Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India\n\nThe Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) is a proposed regulatory body in India for uses of biotechnology products including genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The institute was first suggested under the Biotechnology Regulatory Authority of India (BRAI) draft bill prepared by the Department of Biotechnology in 2008. Since then, it has undergone several revisions. \n\nThe bill has faced opposition from farmer groups and anti-GMO activists.\n\nOn 23 January 2003, India ratified the Cartagena Protocol which protects biodiversity from potential risks of genetically modified organisms, the products of modern biotechnology. The protocol requires setting up of a regulatory body. Currently, the Genetic Engineering Approvals Committee, a body under the Ministry of Environment and Forests (India) is responsible for approval of genetically engineered products in India. If the bill is passed, the responsibility will be taken over by the Environment Appraisal Panel, a sub-division of the BRAI.\n\nAccording to the bill, BRAI will have a Chairperson, two full-time members and two part-time members; all will be required to have expertise in life sciences and biotechnology in agriculture, health care, environment and general biology. The bill also proposes setting up an inter-ministerial governing body, to oversee the performance of BRAI, and a National Biotechnology Advisory Council of stakeholders to provide feedback on the use of biotechnology products and organisms in the society. The regulatory body will be an autonomous and statutory agency to regulate the research, transport, import, and manufacture biotechnology products and organisms.\n\nSuman Sahai, founder of the Gene Campaign, has called the bill flawed. According to her, the bill is proposing new institutes without clearly defining their powers and responsibilities. She has also stated that the bill was introduced without consulting the people who will be affected by the bill. \n\nP. M. Bhargava, founder of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, has also opposed the bill. He has called the bill unconstitutional, as agricultural policy is the domain of state governments. He pointed out that the bill proposes formation of several subdivisions and has argued that they will consist of bureaucrats with no scientific knowledge. He has accused the Department of Biotechnology, which will be involved in selection of members, as a promoter of genetic technology in India. He has pointed out that the broadly defined term \"confidential commercial information\" has been kept outside the purview of the Right to Information Act. He had stated that the bill uses vague wordings which would criminalize sequencing or isolation of DNA and PCR techniques, requiring approval for each usage. Thus, hindering research and education. He pointed out the bill has no provision for mandatory labelling of GM foods. He criticized giving the body power to punish parties making false or misleading statements about GM crops, calling it unprecedented. \n\nIn September 2010, Jairam Ramesh, then Environment Minister, pointed out that the body is only deals with safety and efficacy of biotechnology products. The issue of commercialization has been left unaddressed. The decisions regarding commercialization can fall under the purview of Ministry of Environment and Forests, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, or Department of Science and Technology.\n\nOn the other hand, Association of Biotechnology Led Enterprises (ABLE) has supported the bill. J.S. Rehman, an entomologist and a former member of the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation, has stated that most protesters associate genetic engineering with Monsanto, as a result development of Indian biotech is being hindered.\n"}
{"id": "1678619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678619", "title": "Business method patent", "text": "Business method patent\n\nBusiness method patents are a class of patents which disclose and claim new methods of doing business. This includes new types of e-commerce, insurance, banking and tax compliance etc. Business method patents are a relatively new species of patent and there have been several reviews investigating the appropriateness of patenting business methods. Nonetheless, they have become important assets for both independent inventors and major corporations.\n\nIn general, inventions are eligible for patent protection if they pass the tests of patentability: patentable subject matter, novelty, inventive step or non-obviousness, and industrial applicability (or utility).\n\nA business method may be defined as \"a method of operating any aspect of an economic enterprise\".\n\nOn January 7, 1791, France passed a patent law that stated that \"Any new discovery or invention, in all types of industry, is owned by its author...\". Inventors paid a fee depending upon the desired term of the patent (5, 10, 15 years), filed a description of the invention and were granted a patent. There was no preexamination. Validity was determined in courts. 14 out of 48 of the initial patents were for financial inventions. In June 1792, for example, a patent was issued to inventor F. P. Dousset for a type of tontine in combination with a lottery. These patents raised concerns and were banned and declared invalid in an amendment to the law passed in 1792.\n\nIn Britain, a patent was issued in 1778 to John Knox for a “[p]lan for assurances on lives of persons from 10 to 80 years of age.” At this time in British law, patents could only be issued for manufactured objects, not manufacturing processes.\n\nPatents have been granted in the United States on methods for doing business since the US patent system was established in 1790. The first financial patent was granted on March 19, 1799, to Jacob Perkins of Massachusetts for an invention for \"Detecting Counterfeit Notes.\" All details of Mr. Perkins' invention, which presumably was a device or process in the printing art, were lost in the great Patent Office fire of 1836. Its existence is only known from other sources.\nThe first financial patent for which any detailed written description survives was to a printing method entitled \"A Mode of Preventing Counterfeiting\" granted to John Kneass on April 28, 1815. The first fifty years of the U.S. Patent Office saw the granting of forty-one financial patents in the arts of bank notes (2 patents), bills of credit (1), bills of exchange (1), check blanks (4); detecting and preventing counterfeiting (10), coin counting (1), interest calculation tables (5), and lotteries (17).\n\nOn the other hand, cases such as \"Hotel Security Checking Co. v. Lorraine Co.\", 160 F. 467 (2d Cir. 1908), which held that a bookkeeping system to prevent embezzlement by waiters was unpatentable, were often read to imply a \"business method exception\", in which business methods are unpatentable. Another such case was \"Joseph E. Seagram & Sons v. Marzell\", 180 F.2d 26 (D.C. Cir. 1950), in which the court held that a patent on “blind testing” whiskey blends for consumer preferences would be “a serious restraint upon the advance of science and industry” and therefore should be refused.\n\nFor many years, the USPTO took the position that \"methods of doing business\" were not patentable. With the emergence in the 1980s and 1990s of patent applications on internet or computer enabled methods of doing commerce, however, USPTO found that it was no longer practical to determine if a particular computer implemented invention was a technological invention or a business invention. Consequently, they took the position that examiners would not have to determine if a claimed invention was a method of doing business or not. They would determine patentability based on the same statutory requirements as any other invention.\n\nThe subsequent allowance of patents on computer implemented methods for doing business was challenged in the 1998 \"State Street Bank v. Signature Financial Group\", (47 USPQ 2d 1596 (CAFC 1998)). The court affirmed the position of the USPTO and rejected the theory that a \"method of doing business\" was excluded subject matter. The court further confirmed this principle with \"AT&T Corp. v. Excel Communications, Inc.\", (50 USPQ 2d 1447 (Fed. Cir. 1999)).\n\nThe USPTO continued to require, however, that business method inventions must apply, involve, use or advance the \"technological arts\" in order to be patentable. This was based on an unpublished decision of the U.S. Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences, \"Ex Parte Bowman\", 61 USPQ2d 1665, 1671 (Bd Pat. App. & Inter. 2001). This requirement could be met by merely requiring that the invention be carried out on a computer.\n\nIn October 2005 the USPTO's own administrative judges overturned this position in a majority decision of the board in \"Ex Parte Lundgren\", Appeal No. 2003-2088 (BPAI 2005). The board ruled that the \"technological arts\" requirement could not be sustained, as no such requirement existed in law.\n\nIn light of Ex Parte Lundgren, the USPTO has issued interim guidelines for patent examiners to determine if a given claimed invention meets the statutory requirements of being a process, manufacture, composition of matter or machine (35 USC 101). These guidelines assert that a process, including a process for doing business, must produce a concrete, useful and tangible result in order to be patentable. It does not matter if the process is within the traditional technological arts or not. A price for a financial product, for example, is considered to be a concrete useful and tangible result (see State Street Bank v. Signature Financial Group).\n\nThe USPTO has reasserted its position that literary works, compositions of music, compilations of data, legal documents (such as insurance policies), and forms of energy (such as data packets transmitted over the Internet), are not considered \"manufactures\" and hence, by themselves, are not patentable. Nonetheless, the USPTO has requested comments from the public on this position.\n\nIn 2006, Justice Kennedy of the US Supreme Court cast aspersions on business method patents when he commented that some of them were of \"potential vagueness and suspect validity\". This was expressed in a concurring opinion to the case of \"eBay Inc. v. MercExchange, L.L.C.\" There has been considerable speculation as to how this opinion might affect future business method patent litigation, particularly where a patent owner seeks an injunction to stop an infringer. In 2006, three Justices (Breyer, J., joined by Stevens and Souter, JJ.) dissented from the dismissal of certiorari as improvidently granted in \"Laboratory Corp. of Am. Holdings v. Metabolite Labs., Inc.\", arguing that \"State Street\" enunciated an erroneous legal test under which processes that the Supreme Court had held patent-ineligible would be held patent-eligible.\n\nIn \"Bilski v. Kappos\", 561 U.S. 593 (2010), the Supreme Court held that the machine-or-transformation test is not the sole test for determining whether a claim comes within the \"process\" subject matter of the Patent Act and is thus patent eligible. Rather than being an exclusive test for eligibility, the machine-or-transformation test is \"a useful and important clue, an investigative tool, for determining whether some claimed inventions are processes under § 101. With respect to the facts of the case before it, the Supreme Court affirmed the Federal Circuit's \"en banc\" rejection of an application for a patent on a method of stabilizing cost inputs in the energy industry by hedging price rises against decreases. The Court held that the investment strategy set forth in the application was an \"abstract idea,\" making it ineligible under that exception to the general subject-matter areas listed in the Patent Act.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Bilski v. Kappos\" affirmed but sharply qualified the Federal Circuit's 2008 \"en banc\" decision in \"In re Bilski\". The decision announced a \"machine-or-transformation\" test of patent eligibility that, if it had been accepted as the exclusive for process patents, would have made ineligible many business-method patents granted in the last decade. Although the Supreme Court rejected its exclusive use, the test is still important as a \"useful and important clue\" for determining patent eligibility of claimed process inventions. Under this test. first, processes that transform an article from one state or thing to another are patent eligible regardless of whether their use requires a machine. Processes involving transformation of abstract financial data, such as that claimed in machine format in \"State Street\", are probably patent ineligible. Second, processes that do not make patent-eligible transformations are patent eligible only if they are claimed to be carried out with a “particular machine.” It appears that a programmed general-purpose digital computer is not a \"particular machine\", for this purpose. It is unclear from \"Bilski\" whether a particular machine must be novel and nonobvious, and specially adapted for carrying out the new process. The Supreme Court’s decision in \"Parker v. Flook\" seems to call for that, but the \"Bilski\" court did not choose to opine on this point at that time.\n\nThe majority opinion in \"In re Bilski\" refused to hold business methods categorically ineligible on any ground. Judge Mayer's dissent, however, seconded by Judges Dyk's and Linn's concurring opinion, insisted that the US patent system is limited to technology and therefore it excludes trade and business expedients. Judge Mayer equated the US Constitution's limitation of patent grants to the \"useful arts\" to a limitation to technology, relying on case law stating that technology is the modern equivalent of useful arts.\n\nIn November 2007, the United States Internal Revenue Service proposed rules that would require tax filers who paid a license fee for a tax patent to declare that to the IRS.\n\nSeveral years later, in \"Alice v. CLS Bank\", the Supreme Court readdressed the patent eligibility of a business method. It held patent ineligible a method of securing intermediated settlement—a form of electronic escrow. In invalidating Alice's patent, the Court announced a two-step test based on the Court's earlier decisions in \"Mayo v. Prometheus\" and \"Funk Bros. Seed Co. v. Kalo Inoculant Co.\" This test first determines whether the claimed invention is directed to an abstract idea, law of nature, mathematical formula, or similar abstraction, If it is, the court is to proceed to the second step—determining whether the way the claimed invention implements the abstraction contains an inventive concept, as contrasted with being routine and conventional. Under the \"Alice\" test, the claimed invention is patent eligible only if it contains an inventive concept.\n\nThe USPTO business method examining work groups responded quickly to the Alice decision. Allowances per month for patents related to finance dropped to 10% of their pre Alice value. The Patent Trial and Appeal Board has reacted in a similar manner. Only about 20% of the appealed business method rejections by patent examiners are getting reversed by the board.\n\nWhether a business method is regarded as patentable subject matter depends on the legal jurisdiction. The World Trade Organization’s Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) does not specifically address business method patents.\n\nThere is no general prohibition on the patentability of business methods in Australia. Their patentability is determined by applying the tests used to determine the patentability of any type of invention. However, in the decision of \"Grant v Commissioner of Patents\" [2006] FCAFC 120, at paragraph [47], the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia held that a business method will only be patentable if it has a physical aspect, being a concrete, tangible, physical, or observable effect or phenomenon. Accordingly, 'pure' business methods, being those that do not have a physical aspect, are not patentable in Australia.\n\nIt has been suggested that \"Grant v Commissioner of Patents\" was wrongly decided because the court failed to properly apply the existing law as set out in the decision of the High Court of Australia in \"National Research Development Corporation v Commissioner of Patents (1959) 102 CLR 252\" and that the court should not have imposed a physical aspect requirement.\n\nA business method must be more than an abstract idea or theorem, otherwise it is not patentable in Canada. In order to be patentable, the business method must have a practical application.\n\nHowever, a business method that is an abstract idea does not become patentable merely because it has a practical application. For example, a particular business method that is an abstract idea does not become patentable merely because it is programmed into a computer as an algorithm. For a business method to be patentable, the algorithm cannot be the whole invention, but only one aspect of a novel combination. See \"Amazon.com, Inc. v The Attorney General of Canada, 2011 FCA 328, November 24, 2011\"\n\nIn April 2017, SIPO (i.e. the Chinese patent office) revised it's patent examination guidelines to allow the patenting of business methods provided the method had technical features.\n\nAccording to Brazilian Patent Law 9279, \"commercial, accounting, financial, educational, advertising, raffling, and inspection schemes, plans, principles or methods\" are not considered to be inventions or Utility Models.\n\nUnder the European Patent Convention, \"[s]chemes, rules and methods for (...) doing business\" are not regarded as inventions and are not patentable, \"to the extent that a European patent application or European patent relates to such subject-matter or activities as such\".\n\nHowever, if the claimed subject-matter \"specifies an apparatus or a technical process for carrying out at least some part of the scheme, that scheme and the apparatus or process have to be examined as a whole.\" In such a case, the claimed subject-matter is considered to be of a technical nature and is not barred from patentability under . It then has to be assessed, as a second step, whether the invention involves an inventive step, considering that the \"features which do not contribute to the technical character of the invention cannot support the presence of an inventive step\".\n\nPer Chapter II, Section 3, part (k) of the Indian Patent Act, business methods are not patentable per se. However they are patentable if a new method solves a \"technical\" problem and an apparatus/system is involved.\n\nCurrent US case law \"Alice Corp. v. CLS Bank International\" (decided June 2014) requires that in order for a business method to be patentable, it must be “significantly more” than simply implementing a well-known business process on a computer. The immediate response of the USPTO to this decision as of July 2014 has been to essentially stop allowing business method patents. The key issue is that examiners do not yet have clear guidance as to what is allowable under the Alice decision.\n\nIn the 8th edition of the International Patent Classification (IPC), which entered into force on January 1, 2006, a special subclass has been created for business methods: \"G06Q\" (Data processing systems or methods, specially adapted for administrative, commercial, financial, managerial, supervisory or forecasting purposes). In the previous editions, business methods were classified in \"G06F 17/60\". This is purely a classification matter and will not change the patent laws however.\n\nUS patents describing methods of doing business that involve the use of a computer are classified in Class 705 (\"data processing: financial, business practice, management or cost/price determination\"). Class 705 includes sub-categories for industries such as health care, insurance, electronic shopping, inventory management, accounting, and finance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54159108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54159108", "title": "Chamber of Auditors of the Republic of Azerbaijan", "text": "Chamber of Auditors of the Republic of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Chamber of Auditors of the Republic of Azerbaijan is an Azerbaijani government agency. It is an independent financial control body.\n\nThe Azerbaijani law “On Auditor Services was signed by President Heydar Aliyev on the 16th of September 1994. In 1995, the National Assembly (Milli Mejlis) of the Republic of Azerbaijan made a decision on regulations about the Chamber. The Chamber of Auditors began operations on the 5th of April 1996. The Chamber of Auditors became a full member of the European Federation of Accountants and Auditors on the 5th of May 2003. In November of the same year, the Chamber was accepted as an associate member of the International Federation of Accountants. The Organisation started a project on “Strengthening the capacity of audit conducting of the Chamber of Auditors of Azerbaijan Republic and preparing specialists” on June 24, 1997 and successfully completed in 1999.The first issue of the journal titled “Economics and Auditing” was published on July 5, 2000. “Economics and Auditing” was presented in National Assembly of Azerbaijan. In 2001 first educational book that prepared for higher schools by Chamber of Auditors of Azerbaijan Republic was published. \n\nIts chairman is Novruzov Vahid Tapdig, the Deputy Chairman is Isamyilov Fakhraddin Hasan, and the Head of the office is Bayramov Gasham Hajali.\n\nThe functions of the Chamber of Auditors include organizing and managing audit service, providing the license to independent auditors and auditor organizations, determine the examine fee, giving advice to independent auditors and auditor organizations, preparing different report forms, as well as preparing proposals for improvement of audit services, monitoring Monitors and controls financial and economic activity of independent auditor, audit organization, independent external auditor and branch or representative of the external audit, etc. \n\n"}
{"id": "70050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70050", "title": "Christer Pettersson", "text": "Christer Pettersson\n\nCarl Gustaf Christer Pettersson (23 April 1947 – 29 September 2004) was a Swedish criminal who was a suspect in the 1986 assassination of Olof Palme, the Prime Minister of Sweden. In 1988 he was convicted of the murder in district court but acquitted on appeal the following year.\n\nPettersson grew up in a middle-class family in Solna outside of Stockholm and later moved to the suburb Sollentuna. In his youth he attended a theatrical school (\"Calle Flygares teaterskola\") where he was considered very promising by at least one of his teachers. However, Pettersson suffered a head injury that he would never fully recover from. Subsequent to his injury, Petterson began a period of substance abuse which would eventually force him to drop out of school.\n\nIn 1970, he killed a man in a street of Stockholm, seemingly without any provocation, in what the Swedish press dubbed the \"bayonet murder\". Pettersson was sentenced to closed psychiatric care for manslaughter for the killing. After less than two years he was released and continued a life of petty crime, which financed his alcohol and drug abuse.\n\nOn the night of 28 February 1986, the Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister Olof Palme was shot and killed in Stockholm as he walked home from a cinema with his wife, Lisbet Palme. Pettersson was accused of Palme's murder after an extensive investigation by the Swedish police. He was picked out from a police lineup by Lisbet Palme. The original tip-off leading to the incrimination of Pettersson has been described by some as very dubious. Although the .357-caliber Magnum pistol used to kill Palme was never found, Pettersson was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in 1988. \n\nHowever, in 1989 he was freed after an appeal court cited lack of evidence, including the missing murder weapon. It also questioned the reliability of Lisbet Palme's identification. Pettersson was awarded about $50,000 in compensation for defamation by the police and for wrongful imprisonment. He quickly spent the money on alcohol and drugs, but was able to augment his income through selling TV and newspaper interviews. In some of those interviews – particularly on TV3 – Pettersson admitted to killing Olof Palme, but his confession was not treated seriously. On several occasions Pettersson pointed out that he himself was a \"Social Democrat\", and liked Olof Palme. \n\nIn 1998, the Supreme Court rejected a prosecutor's appeal to retry Pettersson, citing that evidence was not strong enough to place him at the scene of the shooting. \n\nOn 29 September 2004 Pettersson died at the Karolinska University Hospital after he supposedly fell and suffered a cerebral haemorrhage. He had been in a coma since 16 September 2004 when he underwent emergency surgery for unspecified head injuries. Pettersson had reported being harassed by the police on 15 September, the day before he was found with head injuries, with unsubstantiated rumors circulating that he was a victim of police violence. Pettersson was buried in his hometown Sollentuna in January 2005.\n\nShortly before Pettersson was taken to hospital, he had contacted the son of Olof Palme, Mårten Palme, explaining he had something to tell the family. Palme said he was willing to meet Pettersson if he was ready to confess to the murder. But the meeting did not take place, and what Pettersson had to tell was never revealed.\n\nAccording to a documentary aired on the Swedish television channel SVT in February 2006, associates of Pettersson claimed that he had confessed to them his role in Olof Palme's murder, but with the explanation that it was a case of mistaken identity. Apparently, Pettersson had intended to kill a drug dealer, dressed in similar clothing, who often walked along the same street at night. The show also suggested that there was greater police awareness than previously acknowledged due to surveillance of drug activity in the area. The police had several officers in apartments and cars along those few blocks of Sveavägen but, 45 minutes before the murder, the police monitoring ceased. In the light of these revelations, Swedish police undertook reviewing the Palme case and Pettersson's role. However, in an op-ed in the newspaper \"Dagens Nyheter\" on 28 February 2006, two senior SVT reporters criticised the TV documentary severely, claiming that the filmmaker had fabricated a number of statements while omitting other contradictory evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21538597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538597", "title": "Chronological Table of the Statutes", "text": "Chronological Table of the Statutes\n\nThe Chronological Table of the Statutes is a chronological list of the public Acts passed by the Parliament of England (1235–1706), the Parliament of Great Britain (1707–1800), and the Parliament of the United Kingdom (from 1801), as well as the Acts of the old Parliament of Scotland (to 1707) and of the modern Scottish Parliament (from 1999), and the Measures passed by the National Assembly for Wales (from 2008) and by the General Synod of the Church of England (from 1920). It is produced by Her Majesty's Stationery Office (now part of the Office of Public Sector Information) and published by The Stationery Office.\n\nThe Chronological Table was first published in 1870, and is issued regularly. the most recent edition takes the contents up to the end of 2012.\n\nThe Chronological Table does not list either Personal or Local Acts, Acts passed by the old Parliament of Ireland (to 1800), Acts passed by the Parliament of Northern Ireland (1921-1972), Measures passed by the short-lived Northern Ireland Assembly (1973–1974), nor Acts passed by the modern Northern Ireland Assembly (from 1999).\n\nThe Acts and Measures (other than the Acts of the old Parliament of Scotland) are arranged in order of their chapter number for each session (before 1963) or calendar year. For each Act or Measure the Table states to what extent, and by what legislation, it has been amended or repealed.\n"}
{"id": "35229500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35229500", "title": "Constitutional Convention (Ireland)", "text": "Constitutional Convention (Ireland)\n\nThe Convention on the Constitution () was established in Ireland in 2012 to discuss proposed amendments to the Constitution of Ireland. More commonly called simply the Constitutional Convention, it met for the first time 1 December 2012 and sat until 31 March 2014. It had 100 members: a chairman; 29 members of the Oireachtas (parliament); four representatives of Northern Ireland political parties; and 66 randomly selected citizens of Ireland.\n\nThe Convention was mandated to consider eight specified issues, and also selected two others to discuss. The government was not obliged to proceed with any amendment proposal, but committed to respond formally to each recommendation and debate it in the Oireachtas. , the government had formally responded to six of the Convention's nine reports, and put two of its proposals to referendum on 22 May 2015: to mandate legal same-sex marriage and to reduce the age of eligibility for the presidency from 35 to 21. The former was accepted, and the latter rejected.\n\nThe Convention was established pursuant to resolutions in each house of the Oireachtas in June 2012. It was to meet on at least eight Saturdays over the course of a year. The inaugural meeting was on 1 December 2012 at Dublin Castle, and working sessions begin in late January 2013, with later sessions to be held elsewhere in the state and in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe plenary sessions are open to the public, and streamed live. The Convention's secretariat is called the Constitutional Convention Office, led by civil servants from the Department of the Taoiseach. The Secretary is Art O’Leary, previously Director of Committees, Information and Communications of the Oireachtas, who is on secondment to the Department of the Taoiseach.\n\nThe establishing resolution set the following agenda items:\n\n\nThe first two items were to be considered first, with recommendations due for report to the Oireachtas within two months of the Convention's first meeting. The other specified issues were considered in turn until November 2013, and two other issues were then chosen, Dáil reform and Economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nThe chairman was appointed by the Government. Finding a suitable willing candidate took longer than expected. On 24 October 2012, it was announced that the chairman would be Tom Arnold, an economist who is chief executive of the charity Concern and chair of the trust which runs \"The Irish Times\" newspaper. Arnold is being paid for his work, and was to step down from his role at Concern in 2013 as the Convention's workload increases.\n\nIn January 2014, Arnold addressed the Seanad on the Convention's work to date. He listed the principles under which it operated as openness, fairness, equality of voice, efficiency, and collegiality.\n\nThe 66 random citizens were chosen by a polling company to reflect the age, regional, and gender balance of the electorate. For each of the 66, a similar-profile alternate was also selected.\n\nIn the case of citizen members, only their names and county or Dublin postal district were published, rather than their full postal address. This was agreed after the polling company, Behaviour and Attitudes, reported that some of those selected were worried about being \"bombarded\" by lobbyists and pressure groups.\n\nThirty-three places were reserved for members of the legislatures of the Republic of Ireland (Oireachtas) and Northern Ireland (Northern Ireland Assembly). Six parties in the Northern Ireland Assembly were each invited to send one representative. Four accepted, while the Democratic Unionist Party and Ulster Unionist Party declined, regarding the Convention as internal to the Republic. The remaining places, 29 in the event, were divided between the Oireachtas groups so as to be \"impartially representative of the Houses\". Each Oireachtas group is represented, roughly proportional to their total numbers in both houses (Dáil and Seanad), including the Dáil technical group and the Seanad independent group. Sinn Féin has a joint delegation from both legislatures.\n\nIn the 2007–2011 Oireachtas (30th Dáil and 23rd Seanad) the joint committee on the constitution produced a report on the electoral system which recommended that the issue be discussed by a \"Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform\" and sketched out the structure of such an assembly.\n\nProposals for constitutional reform were in the main parties' manifestos for the February 2011 general election. Fine Gael proposed a \"Constitution Day\" series of referendums and a citizens' assembly on electoral reform. Fianna Fáil also proposed a citizen's assembly. The Labour Party, Sinn Féin, and the Green Party each proposed the drafting of new constitution, respectively by a 90-member \"constitutional convention\", an \"all-Ireland Constitutional Forum\", and a \"Citizens Assembly\". Fine Gael and Labour produced a Programme for Government in March and formed a coalition government. The coalition's Programme said:\n\nAlso in 2011, a group of academics set up a participatory democracy initiative called \"We the Citizens\", which in June 2011 ran a trial citizens' assembly of 100 randomly selected citizens at the Royal Hospital Kilmainham.\n\nIn February 2012, the government proposed that the convention would have 100 members, as follows:\n\nThe plan did not envisage direct participation by social partners or other interest groups, but they would be able to make written submissions. The government also proposed that the first two items for consideration would be lowering the voting age from 18 to 17, and reducing the President's term of office.\n\nIssues upon which the government had already committed to holding a referendum would not be within the Convention's remit.\n\nFianna Fáil, Sinn Féin and the Dáil technical group discussed the proposals in March. They reported back to the government in April, and the government responded in June. In regard to acting on the Convention's recommendations, the response stated:\n\nOn 19 June 2012, the Seanad passed a Fianna Fáil motion that the government's proposal to abolish the Seanad should be referred to the Convention. Three Labour senators (John Kelly, James Heffernan, and Denis Landy) defied the party whip to support the motion.\n\nA resolution establishing the Convention in the names of the Taoiseach and Tánaiste was passed in the Dáil on 10 July 2012: A similar resolution was passed by the Seanad on 12 July. Originally one hour was allocated for its debate; senators spent 90 minutes debating procedural motions about whether to extend the time to two hours, after which the resolution was passed without debate.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) Act 2012 was introduced to allow the electoral register to be used to provide the names of the citizen members of the Convention. While existing law allows the register to be used for any \"statutory purpose\", the Convention was not established by statute. The bill passed all stages in the Dáil on 11 July and in the Seanad on 12 July, and signed by the President on 18 July.\n\nAlthough in June the Taoiseach envisaged the Convention beginning work in September, he said in October there was a delay because of the difficulty of finding a chairperson. The initial resolution specified that the Convention would complete its business within 12 months of its first meeting, hence by 1 December 2013. In August 2013, the chairman asked for an extension, which was granted by the government and then retrospectively approved by a resolution on 29 January 2014, extending its term until 31 March 2014.\n\nThe Convention's budget was included under the Department of the Taoiseach; as such the made provision for it and the following year's report of the Comptroller and Auditor General gave the amount actually spent. Four civil servants from the Department of the Taoiseach worked for the Convention. The total cost for three years was €1.367m.\n\nTom Arnold summarised the Convention's working methods thus:\n\nThe first plenary session took place over the weekend of 26 and 27 January 2013. The topics of deliberation of this first session included, among other things, lowering the voting age, reducing the length of the presidential term of office, and aligning presidential elections with those for local authorities and the European Parliament. The following are some of the more important results from the first plenary session. Of the delegates who were present and voted, 52% voted in favour of reducing the voting age, while 47% voted against any such reduction. 38% of delegates voted that, if the voting age were to be reduced, it should be reduced to 17; 48% voted in favour of it being reduced to 16. As for the issue of making changes related to the office of the president, 57% voted against and 43% voted in favour of a reduction in the presidential term. 80% of delegates cast their vote against aligning presidential with local and European elections. 94% of delegates voted in favour of giving citizens a greater say in the nomination of presidential candidates.\n\nThe second plenary session took place over the weekend of 16 and 17 February 2013. The topics of deliberation of this second session included, among other things, amending the Constitution to place a duty on the Irish State to enhance women's participation in politics and public life, and altering Article 41.2.1 of the Constitution related to women in the home. 50% of delegates voted against and 49% in favour of placing a positive duty on the State to take action to increase women's participation in politics and public life. 97% of delegates voted in favour of the following statement: “Leaving aside the Constitution, would you like to see more government action to encourage greater participation of women in politics and public life?” 89% of delegates agreed that the Constitution should be amended to include “gender-inclusive” language. 62% of delegates supported and 37% were against the Constitution being amended to include an “explicit provision on gender equality”. 88% of delegates disagreed that Article 41.2.1 should be left unchanged. 98% of delegates voted that were Article 41.2.1 to be changed, it should be made “gender-neutral” to include other careers in the home.\n\nThe terms of reference allowed the Convention to consider \"other issues, time permitting\". These were originally scheduled for discussion on 30 November–1 December 2013, just before the anniversary of its inaugural ceremonial meeting. A May 2013 motion to consider the proposed abolition of the Seanad was defeated.\n\nThe Convention announced on 14 October 2013 a series of meetings at which the general public was invited to suggest topics for the Convention to consider. The meetings took place between 23 October and 25 November, in Cork, Galway, Waterford, Dublin, Sligo, Athlone, and Monaghan. These meetings supplement the pre-existing facility to submit online proposals, of which \"a couple of thousand\" had been received by the time of the announcement.\n\nIn December 2013, two topics were chosen: Dáil reform and Economic, Social and Cultural (ESC) rights. These were discussed in February 2014.\n\nIn February 2014, the convention recommended for inclusion in the Constitution the following ESC rights: right to housing; social security; essential health care; disability rights; linguistic and cultural rights; and rights covered in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nAlthough the resolution required the government to respond officially within four months of receiving a report from the Convention, this deadline was missed for the fourth and subsequent reports, for which no formal response was made by the time the Dáil adjourned for its summer recess on 17 July 2014. The Taoiseach apologised and blamed the delay on the time taken by civil servants to analyse the reports prior to their being considered by the cabinet. He stated that \"Obviously, the Government will not be able to hold all the referendums and must make a decision on what ones it should hold in conjunction with the marriage equality referendum next spring.\"\n\nIn November 2015, Kenny responded to Seán Ó Fearghaíl:\n\nIn December 2015, Kenny accepted responsibility for the delay again. Responses to the four remaining reports were delivered on 14 January 2016 by junior ministers Paul Kehoe and Ann Phelan.\n\nNoel Whelan described the February 2012 proposal as \"something that is one part Oireachtas committee and two parts focus group, with an advisory role only and which will, at least initially, deal with what are essentially insignificant constitutional provisions\".\n\nFintan O'Toole in June 2012 compared the Convention to the Citizens Union, a reformist political organisation which Tammany Hall did not bother suppressing so long as did not threaten its hegemony. Twenty NGOs produced an open letter calling for the Convention to examine human rights.\n\nIn the debate on the July Dáil resolution, opposition politicians criticised the composition, agenda, and limited power of the proposed Convention. Later in July, the Patrick MacGill summer school in Glenties had a seminar with academics and politicians discussing the Convention.\n\nAn \"Irish Times\" editorial called the Convention \"all form and little substance\". An editorial in the \"Irish Independent\" described it as \"unelected and powerless\". Stephen Collins wrote that the November 2012 referendum on children's rights, with low turnout and unexpectedly high No-vote, suggested \"putting such relatively minor issues [as those of the Convention] to the people in a referendum could easily rebound\".\n\nSome civil society groups complained that they ought to have been directly represented at the convention, instead of being expected to make written submissions and hope for an invitation to address one of its meetings. Fears expressed by commentators included that legislator members would control the process to the detriment of the citizen members, and that the demographic averaging of the membership would reduce input from marginalised minority groups.\n\nMatthew Wall of Swansea University wrote in July 2013 that he was impressed by the Convention's operation and the substance of its reports, and hopeful that the government would not simply reject any recommendations it found inconvenient.\n\nIn January 2015, Harry McGee of \"The Irish Times\" wrote, \"Only two of 18 recommendations for constitutional change made by the Convention on the Constitution are to be put to referendum.\" In March 2015, David Farrell commended the level of public engagement with the Convention and its efficient use of its small budget, but said its credibility was undermined by the government's dismissive responses. Fintan O'Toole similarly praised the Convention's work, and suggested the government's tepid response would increase public cynicism with politics.\n\nIn November 2016, David Van Reybrouck commended the Constitutional Convention and its successor the Citizens' Assembly as models that other European countries could usefully imitate.\n\nTaoiseach Enda Kenny said in June 2015 that \"While there was unanimous support for a second convention in the [Convention's final] report, it was acknowledged that this is an exercise that can only be achieved once in the lifetime of any Dáil\".\n\nIn the buildup to 2016 general election, various politicians proposed changes to Irish abortion law, including repeal of the Eighth Amendment. In November 2015, Kenny promised \"a Citizen's Convention on the constitution, or whatever title would be appropriate\" to address the issue.\n\nThe Fine Gael–independent minority government formed after the 2016 election has committed to establishing \"a Citizens' Assembly, within six months, and without participation by politicians, and with a mandate to look at a limited number of key issues over an extended time period.\" The Assembly will not be restricted to constitutional issues, but three such issues specifically mentioned are the Eighth Amendment, fixed term parliaments, and \"the manner in which referenda are held (e.g. should ‘super referendum days’, whereby a significant number of referenda take place on the same day, be held).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221252", "title": "Contract of sale", "text": "Contract of sale\n\nA contract of sale, sales contract, sales order, or contract for sale is a legal contract for the purchase of assets (goods or property) by a buyer (or purchaser) from a seller (or vendor) for an agreed upon value in money (or money equivalent). \n\nAn obvious ancient practice of exchange, in many common law jurisdictions, it is now governed by statutory law. See commercial law.\n\nContracts of sale involving goods are governed by Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code in most jurisdictions in the United States and Canada. However in Quebec, such contracts are governed by the Civil Code of Quebec as a nominate contract in the book on the law of obligations. In Muslim countries it is governed by sharia (Islamic law).\n\nA contract of sale lays out the terms of a transaction of goods or services, identifying the goods sold, listing delivery instructions, inspection period, any warranties and details of payment. \n\nDenmark\nUnited Kingdom\n"}
{"id": "32867251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32867251", "title": "Daylight factor", "text": "Daylight factor\n\nIn architecture, a daylight factor (DF) is the ratio of the light level inside a structure to the light level outside the structure. It is defined as:\n<br>\n\nwhere,\n\"Ei\" = illuminance due to daylight at a point on the indoors working plane,\n\"Eo\" = simultaneous outdoor illuminance on a horizontal plane from an unobstructed hemisphere of overcast sky.\n\nTo calculate \"Ei\", requires knowing the amount of outside light received inside of a building. Light can reach a room via through a glazed window, rooflight, or other aperture via three paths:\n\nThe sum of the three components gives the illuminance level (typically measured in lux) at the point considered:\n<br>\n\nThe daylight factor can be improved by increasing SC (for example placing a window so it \"sees\" more of the sky rather than adjacent buildings), increasing ERC (for example by painting surrounding buildings white), increasing IRC (for example by using light colours for room surfaces). In most rooms, the ceiling and floor are a fixed colour, and much of the walls are covered by furnishings. This gives less flexibility in changing the daylight factor by using different wall colours than might be expected meaning changing SC is often the key to good daylight design.\n\nArchitects and engineers use daylight factors in architecture and building design to assess the internal natural lighting levels as perceived on working planes or surfaces. They use this information to determine if light is sufficient for occupants to carry out normal activities. The design day for daylight factor calculations is based on the standard CIE overcast Sky for 21 September at 12:00pm, and where the \"Ground Ambient\" light level is 11921 Lux. CIE being the \"Commission Internationale de l´Eclairage\", or \"International Commission on Illumination\".\n\nCalculating daylight factors requires complex repetition of calculations and thus is generally undertaken using a complex software product such as Radiance. This is a suite of tools for performing \"lighting simulation\", which includes a renderer as well as many other tools for measuring simulated light levels. It uses ray tracing to perform all lighting calculations. One failing in many of these calculations is that they are often completed without wall hangings or furniture against the walls. This can lead to higher predictions of the daylight factor than is correct. \n\nTo assess the effect of a poor or good daylight factor, one might compare the results for a given calculation against published design guidance. In the UK this is likely to be CIBSE Lighting Guide 10 (LG10-1999), which broadly bands average daylight factors into the following categories:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36308943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36308943", "title": "Declaration of Internet Freedom", "text": "Declaration of Internet Freedom\n\nThe Declaration of Internet Freedom is a 2012 online declaration in defense of online freedoms signed by a number of prominent organisations and individuals. Notable signatories include Amnesty International, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Reporters Without Borders, and the Mozilla Foundation, among others.\n\nThe declaration supports the establishment of five basic principles for Internet policy:\n\n\nThe declaration started to be translated through a collaborative effort started by Global Voices Online in August 2012 and at the end of the first week of August, it had been made available into 70 languages, almost half of which were provided by Project Lingua volunteer translators.\n"}
{"id": "8470042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8470042", "title": "Duty of care (business associations)", "text": "Duty of care (business associations)\n\nIn United States corporation and business association law (particularly Delaware law and the Revised Model Business Corporation Act), a duty of care is part of the fiduciary duty owed to a corporation by its directors. The other aspects of fiduciary duty are a director's Duty of Loyalty and (possibly) duty of good faith. \n\nPut simply, a director owes a duty to exercise good business judgment and to use ordinary care and prudence in the operation of the business. They must discharge their actions in good faith and in the best interest of the corporation, exercising the care an ordinary person would use under similar circumstances.\n\nDirectors' decisions are typically protected under the business judgment rule, unless they breach one of these duties or unless the decision constitutes waste. A breach of fiduciary duty will typically remove a director's decision from business judgment protection and require that the director show entire fairness.\n\nDirectors have a duty not to waste corporate assets by overpaying for property or employment services. Thus the definition of waste is an exchange so one-sided that no business person of ordinary, sound judgment could conclude the corporation has received adequate consideration. This is difficult to prove in a court of law.\n\nThe duty of care has been set out or clarified in a number of decisions. Among the important duty of care cases are:\n\n\"Smith v. Van Gorkom\" (setting out duty to be reasonably informed in decision-making).\n\nCaremark, Unocal Corp. v. Mesa Petroleum Co., Revlon, Inc. v. MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings, Inc. (setting out duty of supervision and knowledge of company finances).\n\nThe Duty of Care is set out in the Model Business Corporation act sections 8.30 and 8.31. There is no statutory codification of the Duty of Care in the Delaware General Corporation Law.\n\nBoth Delaware and the Model Act allow for directors to be exculpated for some breaches of the duty of care. The exculpation provisions are found in Delaware General Corporate Law section 102(b)(7) and in Model Act section 2.02(b)(4).\n\nIt is very difficult for a director to be found in breach of this duty as the business judgment presumption insulates directors from much of their liability. There is little accountability for corporate directors to shareholders, although some still exists. For example, a director for Disney was let go after 14 months of work with about $150MM in compensation, more than his entire employment contract. In Brehm v. Eisner, a Delaware Supreme Court decision from 2000, the Court found that the Business Judgment Rule shielded the Board, which the Court found to have exercised \"bad business judgment\", since it essentially complied with the Van Gorkom procedural requirement of informing themselves via an expert before approving the severance package. Thus the rule seems to protect even terrible business decisions from judicial review. The counter argument is that shareholders are free to sell their stocks in the open market. Of course, some bad business decisions by the board may well affect the shareholders' ability to do so.\nNote, however, that this case was decided under Delaware's rather extreme codification of the Business Judgment Rule, §102(b)(7), which allows the Corporation to shield its board members from liability for almost anything short of outright bad faith.\n"}
{"id": "55776801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55776801", "title": "Essex Court Chambers-Singapore Academy of Law Moot", "text": "Essex Court Chambers-Singapore Academy of Law Moot\n\nThe Essex Court Chambers-Singapore Academy of Law Moot is an international moot competition for young practicing lawyers organised by Essex Court Chambers and Singapore Academy of Law. Whereas most moot competitions are only for students still in law school or who have not been called to the bar, the ECC-SAL Moot is only open to lawyers who have been qualified for practice for no more than three years. The first edition of the moot was held in 2012. The moot is open to lawyers from Australia, Brunei, Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Singapore, and South Korea, and is mainly judged by lawyers (including Queen's Counsel and Senior Counsel), academics, and judges in the region. It typically involves a commercial dispute between parties before the Singapore International Commercial Court. The top eight teams that qualify from the preliminary phase (two rounds) proceed to the knockout stages.\n"}
{"id": "33035421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33035421", "title": "Essex School of discourse analysis", "text": "Essex School of discourse analysis\n\nThe Essex School constitutes a variety of discourse analysis, one that combines theoretical sophistication – mainly due to its reliance on the post-structuralist and psychoanalytic traditions and, in particular, on the work of Lacan, Foucault, Barthes, Derrida, etc. – with analytical precision, since it focuses predominantly on an in-depth analysis of political discourses in late modernity. \n\nFounding figures of this approach are Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe, two post-Marxist political theorists, who, disillusioned with economic reductionism, tried, since the 1970s, to reinterpret Gramsci’s theory of hegemony to highlight the role of meaning and of processes of interpellation and identification in the creation of political identities and in the articulation and sedimentation of political discourses and hegemonic orders. The paradigmatic formulation of this innovative orientation and of its various conceptual innovations can be found in Laclau’s and Mouffe’s \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy\", first published in 1985, as well as in many subsequent contributions of the two thinkers. \n\nThe approach developed by Laclau and Mouffe and the theoretical traditions influencing their thought – mainly Saussurean linguistics, Lacanian psychoanalysis and deconstruction – provided the teaching backbone of the graduate programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis Laclau founded at the University of Essex in the early 1980s. Already from its inception, the programme attracted many MA and PhD students from around the globe, especially from Argentina, Mexico, Greece, Denmark, Spain, the US and the UK. Many PhD theses further developing Laclau’s and Mouffe’s discourse theory and/or applying it in the empirical analysis of concrete empirical cases have since been completed. Graduates of the programme are now employed by universities in many parts of the world, while the programme itself is run by three members of staff at Essex: Aletta Norval, David Howarth and Jason Glynos, all ex-PhD students of Laclau. Academics associated with the programme have also set up a World Network in Ideology and Discourse Analysis, which provides a web-based channel of communication between its 203 registered members and has also organized the Inaugural World Conference in Ideology and Discourse Analysis, which took place from 8-10 September 2008 at Roskilde University, Denmark, with Ernesto Laclau as keynote speaker. \n\nApart from setting up a distinct graduate programme, now in its third decade, three other factors are indicative of the increasing international recognition and the gradual institutionalization of the research tradition initiated by Laclau and Mouffe: (i) The activities of the Centre for Theoretical Studies in the Humanities and the Social Sciences, also founded by Laclau at the University of Essex (and now co-directed by Norval and Howarth), which functioned as the intellectual hub of the Ideology and Discourse Analysis group; (ii) The publication, from 2000 onwards, of a series of monographs, edited collections and textbooks by members of the group, some of them based on the doctoral research conducted within the programme; (iii) The inclusion of the orientation developed by Laclau and Mouffe and their students as a distinct research direction within the field of discourse analysis in textbooks and introductions to the field published by independent scholars. \n\nAs a result of all these developments, the distinct identity of the group and of its research output gradually triggered a process of naming. From 2003 onwards, when critics wanted to refer to the work of members of the group, they used the phrase ‘the Essex School’, which is now widely used by both members of the group and ‘outsiders’. \n\nThe Essex School does not limit the research direction of its ‘members’, each one of whom develops her or his own orientation independently; it offers, however, a loose framework within which a multitude of theoretical and political interventions can flourish, enriching the original vision of Laclau and Mouffe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41301099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41301099", "title": "Francesco Parisi (economist)", "text": "Francesco Parisi (economist)\n\nFrancesco Parisi (born May 31, 1962) is a legal scholar and economist, working primarily in the United States and Italy. He is currently the Oppenheimer Wolff & Donnelly Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School and Distinguished Professor of Economics at the University of Bologna. Parisi specializes in the economic analysis of law. His research uses formal models and technical results in areas from international law to behavioral law and economics to tort law.\n\nParisi earned his law degree at the University of Rome in 1985. He later studied at the University of California, Berkeley, where he obtained an LL.M. (1988) and J.S.D. (1990). He taught briefly at Louisiana State University Law Center before moving to George Mason University School of Law. While an associate professor at George Mason, Parisi obtained an M.A. in economics at Berkeley, later earning a Ph.D. in economics from George Mason University.\n\nAfter lecturing briefly at University of California, Berkeley (1990–91) and Louisiana State University Law Center (1991–93), Parisi was a member of the faculty of George Mason University School of Law from 1993 to 2006. The University of Minnesota Law School recruited Parisi in 2006.\n\nAt the University of Minnesota, Parisi has taught methodological courses in law and economics, including seminars in game theory, public choice, and social choice. Since 2002, Parisi has split his time between teaching in the United States and Italy. He taught at the University of Milan from 2002 to 2006 and has taught at the University of Bologna since 2006, where he remains a member of the economics faculty.\n\nParisi's has written on a number of legal topics. His early writings included historical and comparative analyses of the evolution of the law; more recent research has been entirely in the domain of law and economics. Parisi's work is often technical, relying on mathematical models and formal proofs to establish a practical point about the incentive structure of the law. In particular, his work often focuses on logical symmetries, secondary effects, and evolutionary changes in the law.\n\nParisi is a founding member of both the American Law & Economics Association and Italian Society for Law and Economics. He has served as editor-in-chief of the Review of Law and Economics, and is general editor (with Richard Posner) of the reference series \"Economic Approaches to Law\" and \"Research Handbooks in Law and Economics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "385486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385486", "title": "Fugitive Slave Act of 1850", "text": "Fugitive Slave Act of 1850\n\nThe Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers.\n\nThe Act was one of the most controversial elements of the 1850 compromise and heightened Northern fears of a \"slave power conspiracy\". It required that all escaped slaves, upon capture, be returned to their masters and that officials and citizens of free states had to cooperate. Abolitionists nicknamed it the \"Bloodhound Law\" for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves.\n\nBy 1843, several hundred slaves a year were successfully escaping to the North, making slavery an unstable institution in the border states.\n\nThe earlier Fugitive Slave Act of 1793 was a Federal law which was written with the intent to enforce , which required the return of runaway slaves. It sought to force the authorities in free states to return fugitive slaves to their masters.\n\nMany Northern states wanted to circumvent the Fugitive Slave Act. Some jurisdictions passed \"personal liberty laws\", mandating a jury trial before alleged fugitive slaves could be moved; others forbade the use of local jails or the assistance of state officials in the arrest or return of alleged fugitive slaves. In some cases, juries refused to convict individuals who had been indicted under the Federal law.\n\nThe Missouri Supreme Court routinely held with the laws of neighboring free states, that slaves who had been voluntarily transported by their owners into free states, with the intent of the masters' residing there permanently or indefinitely, gained their freedom as a result. The Fugitive Slave Law dealt with slaves who escaped to free states without their master's consent. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled, in \"Prigg v. Pennsylvania\" (1842), that states did not have to offer aid in the hunting or recapture of slaves, greatly weakening the law of 1793.\n\nAfter 1840, the black population of rural Cass County, Michigan, grew rapidly as families were attracted by white defiance of discriminatory laws, by numerous highly supportive Quakers, and by low-priced land. Free and runaway blacks found Cass County a haven. Their good fortune attracted the attention of southern slaveholders. In 1847 and 1849, planters from Bourbon and Boone counties in northern Kentucky led raids into Cass County to recapture runaway slaves. The raids failed but the situation contributed to Southern demands in 1850 for passage of the strengthened Fugitive Slave Act.\n\nSouthern politicians often exaggerated the number of escaped slaves and often blamed escapes on Northerners interfering with Southern property rights. Since there was no way to confirm the number of runaway slaves, Congress enacted stricter laws regarding fugitive slaves in the United States.\n\nIn response to the weakening of the original fugitive slave act, the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 penalized officials who did not arrest an alleged runaway slave, and made them liable to a fine of $1,000 (about $ in present-day value). Law-enforcement officials everywhere were required to arrest people suspected of being a runaway slave on as little as a claimant's sworn testimony of ownership. The suspected slave could not ask for a jury trial or testify on his or her own behalf. In addition, any person aiding a runaway slave by providing food or shelter was subject to six months' imprisonment and a $1,000 fine. Officers who captured a fugitive slave were entitled to a bonus or promotion for their work.\n\nSlave owners needed only to supply an affidavit to a Federal marshal to capture an escaped slave. Since a suspected slave was not eligible for a trial, the law resulted in the kidnapping and conscription of free blacks into slavery, as suspected fugitive slaves had no rights in court and could not defend themselves against accusations.\n\nThe Act adversely affected the prospects of slave escape, particularly in states close to the North. One study finds that while slave prices rose across the South in the years after 1850 it appears that \"the 1850 Fugitive Slave Act increased prices in border states by 15% to 30% more than in states further south\", illustrating how the Act altered the chance of successful escape.\n\nIn 1855, the Wisconsin Supreme Court became the only state high court to declare the Fugitive Slave Act unconstitutional, as a result of a case involving fugitive slave Joshua Glover and Sherman Booth, who led efforts that thwarted Glover's recapture. In 1859 in \"Ableman v. Booth,\" the U.S. Supreme Court overruled the state court.\n\nIn November 1850, the Vermont legislature passed the \"Habeas Corpus Law,\" requiring Vermont judicial and law enforcement officials to assist captured fugitive slaves. It also established a state judicial process, parallel to the federal process, for people accused of being fugitive slaves. This law rendered the federal Fugitive Slave Act effectively unenforceable in Vermont and caused a storm of controversy nationally. It was considered a \"nullification\" of federal law, a concept popular in the South among states that wanted to nullify other aspects of federal law, and was part of highly charged debates over slavery. Noted poet and abolitionist John Greenleaf Whittier had called for such laws, and the Whittier controversy heightened angry pro-slavery reactions to the Vermont law. Virginia governor John B. Floyd warned that nullification could push the South toward secession, while President Millard Fillmore threatened to use the army to enforce the Fugitive Slave Act in Vermont. No test events took place in Vermont, but the rhetoric of this flare-up echoed South Carolina's 1832 nullification crisis and Thomas Jefferson's 1798 Kentucky Resolutions.\n\n\"Jury nullification\" occurred as local Northern juries acquitted men accused of violating the law. Secretary of State Daniel Webster was a key supporter of the law as expressed in his famous \"Seventh of March\" speech. He wanted high-profile convictions. The jury nullifications ruined his presidential aspirations and his last-ditch efforts to find a compromise between North and South. Webster led the prosecution against men accused of rescuing Shadrach Minkins in 1851 from Boston officials who intended to return Minkins to his owner; the juries convicted none of the men. Webster sought to enforce a law that was extremely unpopular in the North, and his Whig Party passed him over again when they chose a presidential nominee in 1852.\n\nThe Fugitive Slave Law brought the issue home to anti-slavery citizens in the North, as it made them and their institutions responsible for enforcing slavery. \"Where before many in the North had little or no opinions or feelings on slavery, this law seemed to demand their direct assent to the practice of human bondage, and it galvanized Northern sentiments against slavery.\" Moderate abolitionists were faced with the immediate choice of defying what they believed to be an unjust law, or breaking with their own consciences and beliefs. Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (1852) to highlight the evils of slavery.\n\nMany abolitionists openly defied the law. Reverend Luther Lee, pastor of the Wesleyan Methodist Church of Syracuse, New York, wrote in 1855:\n\nThat was far from empty rhetoric. Several years before, in the Jerry Rescue, Syracuse abolitionists freed by force a fugitive slave who was to be sent back to the South and successfully smuggled him to Canada. Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns were both examples of a unsuccessful attempts by opponents of the Fugitive Slave Law to use force to free a captured slave. Other famous examples include Shadrach Minkins in 1851 and Lucy Bagby in 1861, whose forcible return in 1861 has been cited by historians as important and \"allegorical.\" Pittsburgh abolitionists organized groups whose purpose was the seizure and release of any slave passing through the city, as in the case of a free black servant of the Slaymaker family, erroneously \"rescued\" by black waiters in a hotel dining room.\n\nOther opponents, such as African-American leader Harriet Tubman, simply treated the law as just another complication in their activities. One important consequence was that Canada became a major destination for escaped slaves. The black population of Canada increased from 40,000 to 60,000 between 1850 and 1860, and many reached freedom by the Underground Railroad. In Pittsburgh, for example, during the September following the passage of the law, organized \"squads\" of escaped slaves, armed and sworn to \"die rather than be taken back into slavery,\" set out for Canada, with more than 200 men leaving by the end of the month.\n\nWith the outbreak of the American Civil War, General Benjamin Butler justified refusing to return runaway slaves under the law because the Union and the Confederacy were at war. He confiscated the slaves as contraband of war and set them free, figuring that the loss of workers would also damage the Confederacy. As the war continued with little progress for the Union side, slavery came to be seen as an institution that needed to be undermined to weaken the Confederacy's economy. As such the US Congress eventually passed legislation that forbade Union forces from returning runaway slaves to their masters, and President Abraham Lincoln consolidated that shifting attitude towards slavery with the Emancipation Proclamation, which made the institution's destruction an official war goal. Thus, both the spirit and the letter of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 were completely abandoned.\n\nIncidents involving fugitive slaves:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15495670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15495670", "title": "Green Star (Australia)", "text": "Green Star (Australia)\n\nGreen Star is a voluntary sustainability rating system for buildings in Australia. It was launched in 2003 by the Green Building Council of Australia. \n\nThe Green Star rating system assesses the sustainability of projects at all stages of the built environment life cycle. Ratings can be achieved at the planning phase for communities, during the design, construction or fit out phase of buildings, or during the ongoing operational phase.\n\nThe system considers assesses and rates buildings, fitouts and communities against a range of environmental impact categories, and aims to encourage leadership in environmentally sustainable design and construction, showcase innovation in sustainable building practices, and consider occupant health, productivity and operational cost savings.\n\nIn 2013, the GBCA released a report, \"The Value of Green Star\", which analysed data from 428 Green Star-certified projects occupying 5,746,000 million square metres across Australia and compared it to the ‘average’ Australian building and minimum practice benchmarks. The research found that, on average, Green Star-certified buildings produce 62% fewer greenhouse gas emissions and use 66% less electricity than average Australian buildings. Green Star buildings use 51% less potable water than average buildings. Green Star-certified buildings also have been found to recycle 96 per cent of their construction and demolition waste, compared to the average 58% for new construction projects.\n\nGreen Star benchmarks projects against the nine Green Star categories of: Management; Indoor Environment Quality; Energy; Transport; Water; Materials; Land Use & Ecology; Emissions and Innovation. \n\nWithin each category are credits which address specific aspects of sustainable building design, construction or performance. Ratings for buildings are available at the design stage ('Design' ratings), at the post-construction phase (known as 'As Built' ratings) or for interior fitouts (‘Interiors’ ratings).\n\nGreen Star - Communities rates projects at the community or precinct scale against the categories of: Liveability; Economic Prosperity; Environment; Design; Governance and Innovation.\n\nGreen Star certification is a formal process in which an independent assessment panel reviews documentary evidence that a project meets Green Star benchmarks within each credit. The assessment panel awards points, with a Green Star rating determined by comparing the overall score with the rating scale:\n\nGreen Star rating tools for building, fitout and community design and construction reward projects that achieve best practice or above, which means ratings of 1, 2 or 3 are not awarded. Ongoing performance of a building can be rated at any of the 6 star ratings.\n\nBuildings assessed using the Green Star – Performance rating tool will be able to achieve a Green Star rating from 1 – 6 Star Green Star.\n\nMore than 1900 projects around Australia have achieved Green Star ratings. The first building to achieve a Green Star rating was 8 Brindabella Circuit at Canberra Airport, which achieved a 5 Star Green Star – Office Design v1 rating in 2004. In 2005, Council House 2 in Melbourne became the first building to achieve a 6 Star Green Star – Office Design v1 rating. Flinders Medical Centre – New South Wing was the first healthcare facility in Australia to achieve a Green Star rating. Bond University Mirvac School for Sustainability achieved the first Green Star rating for an educational facility. Other well-known Green Star projects include 1 Bligh Street in Sydney and the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre.\n\nThe launch of the Green Star rating system was met with some scepticism by green groups, which argued that the rating system was funded by mostly development industry companies. There was controversy over a proposal to expand the forest certification of timber and composite timber products, but this issue was resolved with the release of the revised ‘Timber’ credit in 2010. There has also been concern over various aspects of the timeframe for awarding of the certification, transfer of properties once awarded, and termination rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "34921670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34921670", "title": "Hannah Arendt Prize", "text": "Hannah Arendt Prize\n\nThe Hannah Arendt Prize for Political Thought (German: Hannah-Arendt-Preis für politisches Denken) is a prize awarded to individuals representing the tradition of political theorist Hannah Arendt, especially in regard to totalitarianism. It was instituted by the German Heinrich Böll Foundation (affiliated with the Alliance '90/The Greens) and the government of Bremen in 1995, and is awarded by an international jury.\n\n"}
{"id": "58091599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58091599", "title": "Healthy building", "text": "Healthy building\n\nHealthy building refers to an emerging area of interest that supports the physical, psychological, and social health and well-being of people in buildings and the built environment. Buildings can be key promoters of health and well-being since most people spend a majority of their time indoors. According to the National Human Activity Pattern Survey, Americans spend “an average of 87% of their time in enclosed buildings and about 6% of their time in enclosed vehicles.”\n\nHealthy building can be seen as the next generation of Green building that not only includes environmentally responsible and resource-efficient building concepts, but also integrates “health, wellness, and human experience in buildings.” These benefits can include “reducing absenteeism and presenteeism, lowering health care costs, and improving individual and organizational performance.” Healthy building encompasses a wide range of concepts and applications that promote human health which include but are not limited to: site selection and construction, occupant engagement, personal control, indoor environmental quality, daylighting, biophilic design, access to potable water, healthy dining options, exercise in the workplace, and smoking restrictions.\n\nHealthy building involves many different concepts, fields of interest, and disciplines. As such, taking an integrative or integrated design approach is essential to successfully creating a healthy building. Forming a diverse and interdisciplinary team early in the process can generate integrated or complementary strategies for improved performance or health impact considerations. An integrated design team can consist of stakeholders and specialists such as facility managers, architects, building engineers, health and wellness experts, and public health partners. Conducting charrettes with an integrated design team can foster collaboration and help the team develop goals, plans, and solutions.\n\nThere are many different components that can support health and well-being in buildings.\n\nSite selection is an important factor in designing a building and ensuring positive health and environmental impacts. Creating a walkable environment that connects people to workplaces, green spaces, public transportation, fitness centers, and other basic needs and services can influence daily physical activity, “the distances people travel to work, the convenience of purchasing healthy foods, and the safety and attractiveness of neighborhoods for walking.” In particular, proximity to green spaces (e.g., parks, walking trails, gardens, and etc.) or therapeutic landscapes can reduce absenteeism and improve well-being.\n\nThere are many aspects of a building that can be designed to support positive health and well-being. For example, creating well-placed collaboration and social areas (e.g., break rooms, open collaboration areas, cafe spaces, courtyard gardens) can encourage social interaction and well-being. Quiet and wellness rooms can provide quiet zones or rooms that help improve well-being and mindfulness. Specifically, a designated lactation room can support nursing mothers by providing privacy and helping them return to work more easily. A lactation room is required for offices with more than 50 employees and recommended for all other offices. Another design aspect to consider is biophilic design, which focuses on reconnecting people to the natural environment. Biophilic design has been linked to health outcomes such as stress reduction, enhanced mood, improved cognitive performance, enhanced social engagement, enhanced sleep, and enhanced movement. Ergonomics can also minimize stress and strain on the body by providing ergonomically designed workstations.\n\nAccording to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), \"Indoor environmental quality (IEQ) refers to the quality of a building’s environment in relation to the health and wellbeing of those who occupy space within it.\" IEQ is determined by many factors including indoor air quality (IAQ), temperature, lighting, and selection of building materials. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recommends three strategies to improve indoor air quality: source control, improved ventilation, and air cleaners. Selecting low-emitting products and materials that reduce volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions is one way prevent indoor air pollution. Product characteristics to consider include durability, indoor air quality effects, material transparency, and health impact on building occupants. Other aspects of IEQ that can improve health and well-being include thermal comfort, acoustic comfort, and integrated pest management (IPM).\n\nDaylighting refers to providing access to natural daylight, which can be aesthetically pleasing and can reduce energy use. Light has a direct effect on human health because of how it affects circadian rhythms. If daylighting is not available, supplemental electric lighting can help ensure occupants receive enough light for the entrainment of circadian rhythms.\n\nProviding access to water and healthy, nutritional food is essential to promoting health and a quality environment. The design of a building should take into consideration proximity to water and nutritional foods via cafeterias, vending machines, local stores and restaurants or farmers’ markets.\n\nSite selection and building design can promote increased physical activity and exercise. Well-lit and accessible stairwells can provide building occupants the opportunity to increase regular physical activity. Fitness centers or an exercise room can encourage exercise during the work day, which can improve mood and performance, leading to improved focus and better work-based relationships. Exercise can also be promoted by encouraging alternative means of transportation (e.g., cycling, walking, running) to and from the building. Providing facilities such as bicycle storage and locker/changing rooms can increase the appeal of cycling, walking, or running. Active workstations, such as of sit/stand desks, treadmill desks, or cycle desks, can encourage increased movement and exercise as well.\n\nWhile some components of healthy buildings are inherently designed into the built environment, other components rely on the behavioral change of occupants, users, or organizations residing within the building. “Behavioral measures” can be taken to “encourage better public health outcomes: e.g., reducing sedentary behaviors by increasing access to stairways, using more active transportation options, and working at sit-to-stand desks.” Other examples that can promote health and well-being include establishing workplace wellness programs, health promotion campaigns, and encouraging activity and collaboration.\n\nThere are several international and governmental standards, guidelines, and building rating systems that incorporate health and well-being concepts:\n\n"}
{"id": "4072775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4072775", "title": "Informational self-determination", "text": "Informational self-determination\n\nThe term informational self-determination was first used in the context of a German constitutional ruling relating to personal information collected during the 1983 census. The German term is informationelle Selbstbestimmung. It is formally defined as \"the authority of the individual to decide himself, on the basis of the idea of self-determination, when and within what limits information about his private life should be communicated to others.\" Freedom of speech, protection of privacy, right to active private life, right to education, protection of personal data, and the right to public sector information all fall under the umbrella of informational self-determination.\n\nOn that occasion, the German Federal Constitutional Court ruled that: “[...] in the context of modern data processing, the protection of the individual against unlimited collection, storage, use and disclosure of his/her personal data is encompassed by the general personal rights of the German constitution. This basic right warrants in this respect the capacity of the individual to determine in principle the disclosure and use of his/her personal data. Limitations to this informational self-determination are allowed only in case of overriding public interest.”\n\nInformational self-determination is often considered similar to the right to privacy but has unique characteristics that distinguish it from the \"right to privacy\" in the United States tradition. Informational self-determination reflects Westin's description of privacy: “The right of the individual to decide what information about himself should be communicated to others and under what circumstances” (Westin, 1970). In contrast, the \"right to privacy\" in the United States legal tradition is commonly considered to originate in Warren and Brandeis' article, which focuses on the right to \"solitude\" (\"i.e.\", being \"left alone\") and in the Constitution's Fourth Amendment, which protects persons and their belongings from warrantless search.\n\nThe German Federal Constitutional Court Population Census Decision comprises a foundation in the improvement of federal data protection laws and is even alluded to as \"the very key to the German view on data protection\". In this decision, the Court invented the right to informational self-determination as a new constitutional right, which can be viewed as the constitutional basis for the right to be forgotten. The right to be forgotten can be viewed as a component of the right to informational self-determination. As this privilege just produces coordinate results when an official authority is involved, the different inquiries concerning private parties and their claims to delete data in the hands of different privates remain unanswered. Furthermore, there is no explicit definition of a right to be forgotten because it is nearly impossible for something on the internet to be forgotten. Neither the legislator nor the high courts use the term of a right to be forgotten the way, for instance, the new Draft Data Protection Regulation does. This makes it difficult to give a definite answer to the response to the subject of whether such a privilege can be found in German law.\n\nIn the age of information, countries like the Czech Republic have resorted to a form of public administration that can be accessed through the internet called eGovernment. The purpose of eGovernment is to help regulatory procedures, enhance the nature of the administrations and increments inside open division productivity. Additionally, advanced open administrations diminish the authoritative weight on organizations and residents by making their cooperation with open organizations quicker and effective, more advantageous and straightforward, and less expensive. Likewise, utilizing advanced advances as an incorporated piece of governments' modernization methodologies can open further monetary and social advantages for society overall.\n\nPrivacy notices are instruments that are used to educate people of the handling of their own personal data, their rights as data subjects, and provide any other information required by data protection or privacy laws.Contrary to popular belief, European Union data protection laws do not require organizations to display a privacy notice on their websites. Although, such notices seem to be logical by-products of data protection and privacy laws, which requires that people are sufficiently informed about the processing of their personal data, these notices are not legally required\n\nIn the United States, there is regularly a more prominent accentuation on the liberty of speech and the freedom of press, than the right to informational self-determination.\n\n"}
{"id": "12084768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12084768", "title": "Law Terms Act 1830", "text": "Law Terms Act 1830\n\nThe Law Terms Act 1830 (11 Geo 4 & 1 Will 4 c 70) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that made various changes to the court system of England and Wales.\n\nSection 8 granted direct appeal from the Court of Common Pleas to the Court of Exchequer Chamber, rather than indirectly through the King's Bench.\n\nSection 14 abolished the independent jurisdiction of the courts of session of the County Palatine of Chester.\n\nSection 15 was repealed by section 56 of, and Part IV of Schedule 11 to, the Courts Act 1971.\n\nIn a report dated 27 September 1985, the Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission said that section 32 was the only provision that had not been repealed. They said that local consultation had confirmed it was obsolete and unnecessary. They recommended the whole Act be repealed. The Act was repealed by Group 1 of Part I of Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "24171632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24171632", "title": "List of ancient treaties", "text": "List of ancient treaties\n\nThe following is a list of ancient peace treaties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46994080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46994080", "title": "Loan note", "text": "Loan note\n\nA loan note is a type of financial instrument; it is a contract for a loan that specifies when the loan must be repaid and usually also the interest payable. It is similar to a promissory note but the differences can be significant in terms of consequences, especially tax consequences. Chief of these is that by specifying the interest payable, the lender may obtain a tax shield. Loan notes are simple but important instruments in business and finance. A loan note can also be conceived of as a form of deferred payment, and in the UK the tax treatment of loan notes is as either ‘qualifying corporate bonds’ (QCBs), which provide a tax shield, or as ‘non-qualifying corporate bonds’ (non-QCBs) Loan notes may contain other provisions such as convertibility into equity or other kinds of debt, in which case they are called \"convertible loan notes\". The loan note is one of the most widely used instruments in financing the entrepreneurial venture and in start-ups.\n"}
{"id": "3628918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628918", "title": "Maintenance fee (patent)", "text": "Maintenance fee (patent)\n\nMaintenance fees or renewal fees are fees that are paid to maintain a granted patent in force. Some patent laws require the payment of maintenance fees for pending patent applications. Not all patent laws require the payment of maintenance fees and different laws provide different regulations concerning not only the amount payable but also the regularity of the payments. In countries where maintenance fees are to be paid annually, they are sometimes called patent annuities.\n\nResearch is indicating that renewal fees can be used to improve the innovation incentives generated by patent rights.\n\nArticle 5bis of the Paris Convention requires that parties to the Convention should provide a six-month grace period for paying maintenance fees:\n\nInternational patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty are not subject to the payment of maintenance fees. However, maintenance fees may fall due to designated/elected national and regional offices. If renewal fees have become due by the time the national phase starts, they must be paid before the expiration of the time limit applicable for entering the national phase.\n\nIn Canada, maintenance fees for a patent application, or a patent issued from the application, are due on each anniversary of the filing date of the application, beginning on the second anniversary. The amount due each year escalates during the life of the patent or patent application.\n\nIf the maintenance fee is not paid (by the applicant or agent of record) by the due date with respect to a patent application, the application is deemed abandoned. The abandoned application may be reinstated within 12 months of the date of abandonment, by filing a request for reinstatement with payment of the maintenance fee that is due and the reinstatement fee.\n\nThe maintenance fee for a patent may be paid within a one-year grace period after the due date, with the payment of a late fee. If the required fee has not been paid when the grace period expires, the patent lapses.\n\nNo annuity (maintenance) fees need to be paid while applications are pending. Once granted of the patent maintenance fees are due based on the anniversary of application date. The unpaid fees while the patent was pending have to be paid on grant.\n\nRenewal fees are payable to the European Patent Office in respect of pending European patent applications in respect of the third year from the date of filing. These fees are paid in advance of the year in which they are due (such that the renewal fee for the third year falls due two years from the date of filing) and fall due on the last day of the month containing the anniversary of the date of filing. Renewal fees may not be validly paid more than three months before they fall due, except for the third renewal fee which can be paid up to six months before its due date (in accordance with amended Rule 51(1) EPC entering into force in April 2018).\n\nIf the payment of a renewal fee for a European patent application is not made in due time, the renewal fee may still be validly paid within 6 months of the due date, provided that the additional fee provided by is paid within the 6 months as well. For the calculation of the 6-month additional period, the so-called \"de ultimo ad ultimo\" rule is applied by the EPO. According to this rule, the six-month period runs \"from the last day of the month to the last day of the month\". For instance, if a renewal fee was due in February 2004, the additional fee fell due on August 31, 2004 (Tuesday), i.e. 6 months from the end of February 2004.\n\nThe obligation to pay renewal fees terminates with the payment of the renewal fee due in respect of the year in which the mention of the grant of the European patent is published. Subsequently, renewal fees are payable to the national offices of the EPC Contracting States in which the European patent is brought into effect. Each Contracting State then pays the European Patent Organisation a proportion of each renewal fee received for a European patent in that State.\n\nWhereas for a pending European patent application an applicant must pay a single maintenance fee at the EPO, it may be much more costly to pay several maintenance fees to the several national patent offices for maintaining a granted European patent in a number of countries. This however depends on the number of countries in which the patent proprietor wants to maintain its European patent into force. For instance, whereas the renewal fee is 1420 euros for the 10th to 20th year at the EPO (as of April 2010), the sum of national renewal fees exceeds respectively 7 000 euros and 20 000 euros for the 10th and 20th year.\n\nIn a widely criticised move the Italian Parliament approved the cancellation of all maintenance fees due for Italian patents (including European patents validated in Italy), utility models and designs, as from January 1, 2006. Although the fees were reintroduced on January 2, 2007, the actual amounts of the fees were not announced until April 6, 2007. Consequently, for any fees that fell due between January 2, 2007 and April 30, 2007, the time limit for paying these was extended to June 30, 2007. Some, including Roland Grossenbacher, then chairman of the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation, considered that the abolishment of annuity fees in Italy was an error, because, if annuities were abolished, \"all patents would remain in force up to the 20th year.\" \n\nThe United Kingdom does not require renewal fees to be paid in respect of pending applications but a granted patent must be renewed on the 4th anniversary of the filing date and every year after that.\n\nHistorically, and in contrast to most other European countries and the European Patent Office, the law in the United Kingdom required that renewal fees be paid on the anniversary of the filing date rather than on the last day of the month. The Patents (Amendment) Rules 2005, which came into effect on 1 October 2005, ensure that any period prescribed for payment of a renewal fee does not expire until the end of the month in which the renewal date falls.\n\nMaintenance fees on utility patents in the United States are due 3½, 7½ and 11½ years after grant of the utility patent. No maintenance fees are due while an application is pending. Design patents and plant patents are not subject to maintenance fees at all. Maintenance fees may not be paid in advance; the patentee must wait until the payment window opens six months before the due date before paying a maintenance fee. At the end of the half-year window during which a maintenance fee may be paid, a six-month grace period begins during which a patentee may still pay the maintenance fee along with a small surcharge (as of 2016: $160 for a large entity, $80 for a small entity; and $40 for a micro entity) in order to maintain the patent. If the maintenance fee has not been paid at the conclusion of the grace period, the patent expires for non-payment of maintenance fees. However, the patent can be revived, by a petition indicating that the non-payment was unintentional.\n\n"}
{"id": "44212769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44212769", "title": "Ministry of Interior, Justice and Peace", "text": "Ministry of Interior, Justice and Peace\n\nThe Ministry of the Popular Power for Interior, Justice and Peace (Ministerio del Poder Popular para Relaciones Interiores, Justicia y Paz) is one of 39 agencies that make up the executive office of the Venezuelan government . This ministry is also called the Ministry of Popular Power for Interior Relations and Justice and Ministry of Interior and Justice.\n\nThe ministry is a dependent entity directly under the President of Venezuela.\n\nMinister Jesse Chacon said in 2004 that the Ministry of Justice would then be called the Ministry of Interior and Security Policy. In 2013, President Nicolas Maduro announced that the ministry took the name of Ministry of Interior, Justice and Peace.\n\nThe current Minister of Interior and Justice of Venezuela Gustavo González López.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24087131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087131", "title": "Outline Convention on Transfrontier Co-operation", "text": "Outline Convention on Transfrontier Co-operation\n\nThe European Outline Convention on Transfrontier Co-operation between Territorial Communities or Authorities, also called the Madrid Convention was launched by the Council of Europe (CoE) in 1980. The convention provides a legal framework for the establishment of cross-border regions. As of 2014, it has been ratified by 39 CoE member states. \n\nThe Convention has two parts. Whereas the first part contains the legally binding regulations of the treaties, the second part lists a series of ‘model agreements’, both for the inter-state and the local levels, as options for possible CBC arrangements. This latter part of the convention is intended for guidance only and has no treaty value. \nThe legally binding obligation the Convention puts on the signatory states is to facilitate cross-border cooperation between territorial authorities and to promote the conclusion of agreements that may prove necessary for this purpose (art. 1). Furthermore, the contracting parties commit to encourage any initiative by territorial authorities inspired by the model agreements listed in part two of the Convention. At the same time, the fulfilment of these obligations is subject to a number of clauses. CBC shall not alter the existing powers of the territorial authorities as they are defined in the respective domestic legal orders. The signatory states are also allowed to exclude certain types of authorities from the scope of the Convention. These clauses mean that the fulfilment of the international law Convention is always limited by national law.\nThe second part of the Convention contains various optional ‘model agreements’, grouped in two categories, i.e. inter-state agreements on the one hand, and contracts between local authorities, on the other. The proposed model agreements provide possible frameworks for varying degrees of co-operation which were drafted according to actually existing CBC treaties and arrangements, such as the 1974 treaty between Luxembourg and the German Land Rheinland-Pfalz. For instance, the model agreements listed under art. 1.4 and 1.5 were inspired by the such as the 1974 treaty between Luxembourg and the German Land Rheinland-Pfalz Subsequently, they informed a series of further inter-state treaties, enabling local authorities to participate in private and public law CBC initiatives. \n\nIn 1995, the Convention was supplemented by an Additional Protocol, ruling that cross-border co-operative arrangements can be set up as independent bodies which may or may not have legal personality. If the co-operation body does have legal personality, the latter is defined in the law of the country in which its headquarters are located. As stated in art. 4, the co-operation body cannot be empowered to take measures which apply generally or which might affect the rights and freedoms of individuals. It must be specified whether the body is to be considered a public or private law entity within the respective national legal systems.\nHowever, the protocol gives the signatory states the option to extend the powers of such co-operation bodies (art. 5). They can be established as public law entities whose decisions have the same legal force as if they had been taken by the participating authorities themselves. Such bodies can therefore make decisions which are legally binding not only for the participating authorities but also for any individuals affected. In view of the far-reaching implications of such a transnational public authority, Germany, France and Sweden chose to sign the protocol without art. 5. \nThe Additional Protocol significantly extends the provisions made by the Madrid Convention. However, the Convention still does not contain any regulations that override national law. This is why all initiatives have to conform to the national legal systems of the respective countries. Thus, no public law CBC initiative can be based on the CoE Convention and its additional protocols, but must be grounded either in inter-state treaties or at least unilaterally in national law.\n"}
{"id": "13121909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13121909", "title": "Paris Principles", "text": "Paris Principles\n\nThe Paris Principles were defined at the first International Workshop on National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights held in Paris on 7–9 October 1991. They were adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Commission by Resolution 1992/54 of 1992, and by the UN General Assembly in its Resolution 48/134 of 1993. The Paris Principles relate to the status and functioning of national institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights.\n\nIn addition to exchanging views on existing arrangements, the workshop participants drew up a comprehensive series of recommendations on the role, composition, status and also functions of national human rights institutions (NHRIs).\n\nThe Paris Principles list a number of responsibilities for national institutions, which fall under five headings.\n\nFirst, the institution shall monitor any situation of violation of human rights which it decides to take up. \nSecond, the institution shall be able to advise the Government, the Parliament and any other competent body on specific violations, on issues related to legislation and general compliance and implementation with international human rights instruments. \nThird, the institution shall relate to regional and international organizations. \nFourth, the institution shall have a mandate to educate and inform in the field of human rights. \nFifth, some institutions are given a quasi-judicial competence.\n\n\"The key elements of the composition of a national institution are its independence and pluralism. In relation to the independence the only guidance in the Paris Principles is that the appointment of commissioners or other kinds of key personnel shall be given effect by an official Act, establishing the specific duration of the mandate, which may be renewable.\" \n\nCompliance with the Paris Principles is the central requirement of the accreditation process that regulates NHRI access to the United Nations Human Rights Council and other bodies. This is a peer review system operated by a subcommittee of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions (GANHRI).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "913970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913970", "title": "Parol evidence rule", "text": "Parol evidence rule\n\nThe parol evidence rule is a rule in the Anglo-American common law regarding contracts, and governs what kinds of evidence parties to a contract dispute can introduce to identify the specific terms of a contract. The rule prevents parties who have reduced their agreement to a final written document from later introducing other evidence, such as the content of oral discussions from earlier in the negotiation process, as evidence of a different intent as to the terms of the contract. The term \"parol\" derives from the Anglo-Norman French \"parol\" or \"parole\", meaning \"word of mouth\" or \"verbal\", and in medieval times referred to oral pleadings in a court case.\n\nThe supporting rationale for this rule is that since the contracting parties have reduced their agreement to a single and final writing, extrinsic evidence of past agreements or terms should not be considered when interpreting that writing, as the parties had decided to ultimately leave them out of the contract. In other words, one may not use evidence made prior to the written contract to contradict the writing. A common misconception is that it is a rule of evidence (like the Federal Rules of Evidence), but that is not the case.\n\nThe rule applies to parol evidence, as well as other extrinsic evidence (such as written correspondence that does not form a separate contract) regarding a contract. If a contract is in writing and final to at least one term (integrated), parol or extrinsic evidence will generally be excluded. However, there are a number of exceptions to this general rule, including for partially integrated contracts, agreements with separate consideration, to resolve ambiguities, or to establish contract defenses.\n\nTo take an example, Carl agrees in writing to sell Betty a car for $1,000, but later, Betty argues that Carl earlier told her that she would only need to pay Carl $800. The parol evidence rule would generally prevent Betty from testifying to this alleged conversation because the testimony ($800) would directly contradict the written contract's terms ($1,000).\n\nIn order for the rule to be effective, the contract in question must first be a final integrated writing; it must, in the judgment of the court, be the final agreement between the parties (as opposed to a mere draft, for example).\n\nA final agreement is either a partial or complete integration, provided that it has an agreement on its face indicating its finality. If it contains some, but not all, of the terms as to which the parties have agreed then it is a partial integration. This means that the writing was a final agreement between the parties (and not mere preliminary negotiations) as to some terms, but not as to others. On the other hand, if the writing were to contain all of the terms as to which the parties agreed, then it would be a complete integration. One way to ensure that the contract will be found to be a final and complete integration is through the inclusion of a merger clause, which recites that the contract is, in fact, the whole agreement between the parties. However, many modern cases have found merger clauses to be only a rebuttable presumption.\n\nThe importance of the distinction between partial and complete integrations is relevant to what evidence is excluded under the parol evidence rule. For both complete and partial integrations, evidence contradicting the writing is excluded under the parol evidence rule. However, for a partial integration, terms that supplement the writing are admissible. To put it mildly, this can be an extremely subtle (and subjective) distinction.\n\nTo put it simply, (1) If the parties intend a complete integration of the contract terms, no parol evidence within the scope of agreement is permitted. (2) If the parties intended a partial integrated agreement, no parol evidence that contradicts anything integrated is permitted. And (3), if the parol evidence is collateral, meaning it regards a different agreement, and does not contradict the integrated terms, and are not terms any reasonable person would always naturally integrate, then the rule does not apply and the evidence is admissible.\n\nIn a minority of U.S. states, (Florida, Colorado, and Wisconsin), the parol evidence rule is extremely strong and extrinsic evidence is always barred from being used to interpret a contract. This is called the Four Corners Rule, and it is traditional/old. In a Four Corners Rule jurisdiction, there are two basic rules. First, the court will never allow parol evidence if the parties intended a full and completely integrated agreement, and second, the court will only turn to parol evidence if the terms available are wholly ambiguous. The policy is to prevent lying, to protect against doubtful veracity, to enable parties to rely dearly on written contracts, and for judicial efficiency.\n\nIn most jurisdictions there are numerous exceptions to this rule, and in those jurisdictions, extrinsic evidence may be admitted for the following purposes. This is called the Admission Rule. It favors liberalizing the admission of evidence to determine if the contract was fully integrated and to determine if the parol evidence is relevant. In these jurisdictions, such as California, one can bring in parol evidence even if the contract is unambiguous on its face, if the parol evidence creates ambiguity. The policy is to get to the actual truth.\n\nThe third and final admissibility rule is that under the UCC § 2-202: Parol evidence cannot contradict a writing intended to be the \"final expression\" of the agreement integrated but may be explained or supplemented by (a) a course of dealing/usage of trade/ course of performance, and by (b) evidence of consistent additional terms unless the writing was also intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement.\n\n\nIn order for evidence to fall within this rule, it must involve either (1) a written or oral communication made prior to execution of the written contract; or (2) an oral communication made contemporaneous with execution of the written contract. Evidence of a \"later\" communication will not be barred by this rule, as it is admissible to show a later modification of the contract (although it might be inadmissible for some other reason, such as the Statute of frauds). Similarly, evidence of a collateral agreement - one that would naturally and normally be included in a separate writing - will not be barred. For example, if A contracts with B to paint B's house for $1,000, B can introduce extrinsic evidence to show that A also contracted to paint B's storage shed for $100. The agreement to paint the shed would logically be in a separate document from the agreement to paint the house.\n\nThough its name suggests that it is a procedural evidence rule, the consensus of courts and commentators is that the parol evidence rule constitutes substantive contract law.\n\nAdditional information on the parol evidence rule may be found in Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 213.\n\nThe parol evidence rule is a common trap for consumers. For example:\n\n\nAustralia\nException 1: the contract is an oral contract or partly written.\nException 2: parties may have entered into a collateral contract, or are establishing an estoppel, with rectification, condition precedent, the true consideration, ACL, implied terms.\n\nAlso, a narrow view of admissibility of extrinsic evidence has been taken, where evidence of surrounding circumstances is only admissible to resolve patent ambiguity, latent ambiguity, and inherent ambiguity in the meaning of the words of a contract. The High Court in \"Electricity Generation Corporation v Woodside Energy Ltd\" took a different approach to interpreting commercial contracts, considering the \"language used by the parties, the surrounding circumstances known to them and the commercial purpose or objects to be secured by the contract\" at the \"genesis of the transaction\". This necessarily implies consideration of surrounding circumstances and indicates a broader approach may be adopted by the court in the future. The latest view is the narrow view which was described in \"Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited v Wright Prospecting Pty Limited\".\n\nSouth Africa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18448975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448975", "title": "Participatory justice", "text": "Participatory justice\n\nParticipatory justice, broadly speaking, refers to the direct participation of those affected most by a particular decision, in the decision-making process itself: this could refer to decisions made in a court of law or by policymakers. Popular participation has been called \"the ethical seal of a democratic society\" by Friedhelm Hengsbach, a professor of Christian Social Science and Economic and Social Ethics at the Philosophical-Theological College Sankt Georgen in Frankfurt and \"the politics of the future\" by Gene Stephens, professor of criminology at the University of South Carolina. It is about people and relationships.\n\nVarious authors have claimed that examples of participatory justice date back to civilizations as old as that of the Canadian Aboriginals and Ancient Athenians, even if the terminology had not been in use then. In the society of Canadian Aboriginals, citizens were given the opportunity to give their own account of a dispute in public and determine the proper course of action, which sometimes involved issuing a public apology. Elders were viewed as authorities due to their unique knowledge of the circumstances of community members. In ancient Athens, large popular courts, made up of 200 to 1000 randomly selected male citizens, shared in both functions of forming and of applying the law. The term \"participatory justice\" itself, however, was first used by Bellevue, Washington-based attorney Claire Sherman Thomas in 1984 to describe the process by which people act as responsible participants in the law making process, thereby contributing to causes of social justice. In 1986, Gene Stephens first used the term to describe an alternative to the adversarial model of justice system used in court.\n\nBoth definitions of participatory justice relate to the concept of participatory democracy, which shares similar aspirations: to provide the government with democratic legitimacy and make for a more inclusive, transparent, equal society, by allowing citizens to participate directly in political decision-making and lawmaking processes that affect their lives.\n\nIn rare cases, it also refers to the use of the Internet or a television reality show to catch a perpetrator.\n\nParticipatory justice can refer to the use of alternative dispute resolution, such as mediation, conciliation, and arbitration, in criminal and civil courts, instead of, or before, going to court. It is sometimes called \"community dispute resolution\". NGOs (Non-governmental organizations) may get involved in the administration of criminal justice. According to the National Advisory Commission of Criminal Justice Standards and Goals, delays in sentencing and lack of protection of rights of the accused contribute to attitudes of legal cynicism. According to a large cohort of citizens, the guilty are freed while the innocent, and often the black and poor, are harassed. The participatory justice model, in turn, attempts to restore public confidence in the legal system.\n\nWhereas the adversarial and disposition system is often slow-functioning, expensive, and inconsistent, the participatory justice model is a cheap and efficient way of resolution-making. Rather than rely on expensive attorneys and expert witnesses, the model relies on volunteers from the community, who are trained in mediation and counseling techniques. The resolution is often achieved quicker, because, by reaching a consent agreement implemented by all parties involved, there is no possibility of re-litigation. In the participatory justice model, cooperation is valued instead of competition and reconciliation instead of winner-take-all. The need to protect the public and to respect the rights of ordinary citizens to a free but secure society are considered. This in turn helps preserve positive relationships between the parties involved. In modern-day Canada, for instance, community members are involved in almost every step of the judicial process, even before people are arrested and sent to court; community organizations establish working partnerships with police to focus attention on growing social problems, like child abandonment or housing code violations, and prevent crime.\n\nNot only does the participatory justice model promote inclusion, according to several authors, but also socioeconomic equality. The adversarial/dispositional system requires enforcing laws that often represent the will of those with the most educational and monetary resources. As Stephens points out, most people who are perpetrators in a particular incident, whether civil or criminal, had also been victims at some point, so every person’s circumstances should be taken into consideration. Stahn mentions the importance of consulting victims at the reparation stage to determine whether they really believe the person who committed the crime against them is deserving of incarceration. Once used primarily in Scandinavia, Asia, and Africa, participatory justice has been \"exported\" to the United States.\n\nFinally, participatory justice serves as a crucial check on state power, that legitimizes the rule of law itself. As long as citizens believe in their ability to contribute to the law making and evaluation process, public consensus supports the rule of law. Without consensus, the government must rely on the letter of the law and threat of prosecution to maintain order; the government might resort to censorship and surveillance. The law becomes \"instead of a vehicle of justice, the instrument of a bureaucratic, institutionalized, dehumanized government.\" Therefore, by reducing legal cynicism in communities, participatory justice effectively decreases the likelihood that the state will respond to this cynicism through use of overly punitive justice.\n\nOnce used primarily in Scandinavia, Asia, and Africa, participatory justice has been \"exported\" to the United States and Canada. It is used in a variety of cases, including between \"Landlords and Tenants, Neighbours, Parents and Children, Families and Schools, Consumers and Merchants ... [and] victims of crime and offenders.\" For war-torn countries, participatory justice can promote coexistence and reconciliation, through an emphasis on universal participation.\n\nAn online and self-financed form of participatory justice, called the crowdjury system, has been promoted as an improved way of managing trials in the future. Witnesses to a crime can upload evidence online into a secure vault. Data can then be organized into useful knowledge by groups of 9 to 12 self-selected volunteers with expertise. If a defendant pleads guilty, they can propose a form of restoration, as a way to avoid harsher punishment; if they do not plead, an online trial will be held with a massive randomly-selected jury. Participants in the evidence review process will receive monetary compensation through Bitcoin or alt coin. According to crowdjury's proponents, this will help the government cut costs and create a more transparent judicial process.\n\nCritics of the participatory justice model cite its purpose to often humiliate a particular party. Inkiko-Gacaca, a system of community courts established in 2002 to respond to the large number of suspected perpetrators imprisoned after the 1994 Rwandan genocide, is a famous example. Meant to achieve lasting peace through the promotion of restorative justice, Gacaca, according to several authors, has only become more retributive and coercive. Through the process, Tutsi genocide survivors allegedly impose guilt on the Hutu, asking them to confess their deeds, express apologies to all victims and kin, and repay them tangibly, through public shaming. The participatory justice model has also been critiqued for its lack of checks and balances and lack of participation of professional experts. Because the negotiators are usually not trained in the collection of evidence and are not privy to the criminal background of the alleged offender, the resolution may be made without full facts and knowledge. Furthermore, the offender's motivation is difficult to assess if the alternative is more formal punishment.\n\nParticipatory justice can also refer to the rights of individuals and groups to actively participate in policy-making and engage in debates about social justice. In a participatory justice model, rule makers rely on the participation of affected interests rather than on administrators, politicians, and the general population. This often leads to the redistribution of resources and recognition of those whose voices have historically been excluded, due in part to a lack of financial and educational resources to contribute.\n\nThe Negotiated Rulemaking Act made it a priority to ensure that people most affected by a particular issue, particularly poor people, would be able to take part in the negotiation process; the government provides agency funding to defray costs of participation in rulemaking. Giving marginalized groups the chance to participate in the decision making process can help ensure they participate in the community more generally as well. For example, during the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), disabled peoples organizations (DPOs) were engaged in and consulted during the drafting of a comprehensive program that would enable the disabled to participate in the civil, political, economic, social, and cultural life of the community. Also, within the CRPD, states were encouraged to involve DPOs when preparing reports for the body meant to monitor the implementation of the program.\n\nArguments supporting various participatory justice models in the U.S. have also cited the equal protection clause 14th amendment, protection of individual legal rights, upholding of autonomy, integrationism, and democratic principles in their support. Participatory justice models are seen as a way to fight against the paternalistic approach of the government in which legislators choose for citizens, without their input. When affected individuals can participate in the policymaking process, they become viewed as subjects rather than objects.\n\nConsensus rule is more administratively efficient in the long run because it avoids lengthy post-enactment litigation. The legislature or administrative body using the participatory justice model also gains legitimacy, since it implies accountability. Participatory justice models have long been used by environmental justice movements. Often times, participation was originally denied not because of institutional or political failure, but because those in question aren’t recognized as in the domain of justice. Young argues that participatory justice rather than distributive justice was the primary demand of communities like Afton, North Carolina. People objected that they were being subjected to risks and exposure without their consent and without mechanisms to articulate their opposition. The unfortunate reality is that those people who live in countries that will be destroyed first due to rising sea levels will not be included in decisions about when decisions are made.\n\nOne of the common criticisms of participatory justice models is that they might reduce efficiency, like in the environmental justice model discussed. Incorporating the voices of all affected interests is a difficult and long process, especially when the issue being decided upon is significantly controversial. Another disadvantage is that, even when you have a negotiating body and it does include affected interests, it might be difficult for all interests to be equally represented. This problem, however, can be fixed by providing those negotiating with negotiation skills, as well as development of relevant information and payment of expenses involved in participation, like in the PJ model employed SSA's representative payment program. Another disadvantage of using a participatory justice model is the inexperience of those participating. The participants may not have as much respect for the wide number of legal and ethical considerations that need to be made when writing policy proposals. For this reason, some critics argue that policy experts should be able to mediate the conversations on various policies, especially when modern laws are much more complex than those in places like ancient Athens, where laws were inscribed on panels all over the city and set up in the agora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "513965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513965", "title": "Rammed earth", "text": "Rammed earth\n\nRammed earth, also known as taipa in Portuguese, tapial or tapia in Spanish, pisé (de terre) in French, and hangtu (), is a technique for constructing foundations, floors, and walls using natural raw materials such as earth, chalk, lime, or gravel. It is an ancient method that has been revived recently as a sustainable building material used in a technique of natural building.\n\nRammed earth is simple to manufacture, non-combustible, thermally massive, strong, and durable. However, structures such as walls can be laborious to construct of rammed earth without machinery, e. g., powered tampers, and they are susceptible to water damage if inadequately protected or maintained.\n\nEdifices formed of rammed earth are on every continent except Antarctica, in a range of environments including temperate, wet, semiarid desert, montane, and tropical regions. The availability of suitable soil and a building design appropriate for local climatic conditions are the factors that favour its use.\n\nManufacturing rammed earth involves compressing a damp mixture of earth that has suitable proportions of sand, gravel, clay, and/or an added stabilizer into an externally supported frame or mold, forming either a solid wall or individual blocks. Historically, additives such as lime or animal blood were used to stabilize it, while modern construction adds lime, cement, or asphalt emulsions. To add variety, some modern builders also add coloured oxides or other materials, e.g. bottles, tires, or pieces of timber.\n\nThe construction of an entire wall begins with a temporary frame, denominated the \"formwork\", which is usually made of wood or plywood, as a mold for the desired shape and dimensions of each section of wall. The form must be durable and well braced, and the two opposing faces must be clamped together to prevent bulging or deformation caused by the large compressing forces. Damp material is poured into the formwork to a depth of and then compacted to approximately 50% of its original height. The material is compressed iteratively, in batches or courses, so as to gradually erect the wall up to the top of the formwork. Tamping was historically manual with a long ramming pole, and was very laborious, but modern construction can be made less so by employing pneumatically powered tampers.\n\nAfter a wall is complete, it is sufficiently strong to immediately remove the formwork. This is necessary if a surface texture is to be applied, e.g., by wire brushing, carving, or mold impression, because the walls become too hard to work after approximately one hour. Construction is optimally done in warm weather so that the walls can dry and harden. The compression strength of the rammed earth increases as it cures; some time is necessary for it to dry and as long as two years can be necessary for complete curing. Exposed walls must be sealed to prevent water damage.\n\nIn modern variations of the technique, rammed-earth walls are constructed on top of conventional footings or a reinforced concrete slab base.\n\nWhere blocks made of rammed earth are used, they are generally stacked like regular blocks and are bonded together with a thin mud slurry instead of cement. Special machines, usually powered by small engines and often portable, are used to compress the material into blocks.\n\nPresently more than 30% of the world's population uses earth as a building material. Rammed earth has been used globally in a wide range of climatic conditions. Rammed-earth housing may resolve homelessness caused by otherwise expensive construction techniques.\n\nThe compressive strength of rammed earth is a maximum of . This is less than that of concrete but more than sufficiently strong for domestic edifices. Indeed, properly constructed rammed earth endures for thousands of years, as many ancient structures that are still standing around the world demonstrate. Rammed earth reinforced with rebar, wood, or bamboo can prevent collapse caused by earthquakes or heavy storms, because unreinforced edifices of rammed earth resist earthquake damage extremely poorly. See 1960 Agadir earthquake for an example of the total destruction which may be inflicted on such structures by an earthquake. Adding cement to soil mixtures poor in clay can also increase the load-bearing capacity of rammed-earth edifices. The United States Department of Agriculture observed in 1925 that rammed-earth structures endure indefinitely and can be constructed for less than two-thirds of the cost of standard frame houses.\n\nSoil is a widely available, inexpensive, and sustainable resource. Therefore, construction with rammed earth is very viable. Unskilled labour can do most of the necessary work. While the cost of rammed earth is low, rammed-earth construction without mechanical tools is very time-consuming and laborious; however, with a mechanical tamper and prefabricated formwork it can require only two or three days to construct the walls of a house.\n\nOne significant benefit of rammed earth is its high thermal mass: like brick or concrete, it can absorb heat during daytime and nocturnally release it. This action moderates daily temperature variations and reduces the need for air conditioning and heating. In colder climates, rammed-earth walls can be insulated with Styrofoam or a similar insert. It must also be protected from heavy rain and insulated with vapour barriers.\n\nRammed earth can effectively regulate humidity if unclad walls containing clay are exposed to an internal space. Humidity is regulated between 40% and 60%, which is the ideal range for asthma sufferers and for the storage of susceptible objects such as books. The material mass and clay content of rammed earth allows an edifice to breathe more than concrete edifices, which avoids problems of condensation but prevents significant loss of heat.\n\nUntouched, rammed-earth walls have the colour and texture of natural earth. Moisture-impermeable finishes, such as cement render, are avoided because they impair the ability of a wall to desorb moisture, which quality is necessary to preserve its strength. Well-cured walls accept nails and screws easily, and can be effectively patched with the same material used to build them. Blemishes can be repaired using the soil mixture as a plaster and sanded smooth.\n\nThe thickness, typically , and density of rammed-earth walls make them suitable for soundproofing. They are also inherently fireproof, resistant to termite damage, and non-toxic.\n\nEdifices of rammed earth are thought to be more sustainable and environmentally friendly than popular techniques of construction. Because rammed-earth edifices use locally available materials, they usually have low embodied energy and generate very little waste. The soils used are typically subsoils low in clay, between 5% and 15%, which conserve the topsoil for agriculture. When the soil excavated in preparation for a foundation can be used, the cost and energy consumption of transportation are minimal. Rammed earth is probably the least environmentally detrimental construction material and technique that is readily and commercially available today to construct solid masonry edifices. Rammed earth has potentially low manufacturing impact, contingent on the amount of cement and the amount that is locally sourced; it is often quarried aggregates rather than \"earth\".\n\nFormwork is removable and can be reused, reducing the need for lumber.\nMixing cement with the soil can counteract sustainable benefits such as low embodied energy and humidity regulation because manufacture of the cement itself adds to the global carbon dioxide burden at a rate of 1.25 tonnes per tonne of cement produced. Partial substitution of cement with alternatives such as ground granulated blast furnace slag has not been demonstrated to be effective, and implicates other questions of sustainability.\n\nRammed earth can contribute to the overall energy efficiency of edifices: the density, thickness, and thermal conductivity of rammed earth render it an especially suitable material for passive solar heating. Warmth requires almost 12 hours to be conducted through a wall thick.\n\nRammed-earth construction may also reduce the ecological impacts of deforestation and the toxicity of artificial materials associated with conventional construction techniques.\n\nAlthough it has low greenhouse emissions in theory, transportation and the production of cement can add significantly to the overall emissions of modern rammed earth construction. The most basic kind of traditional rammed earth has very low greenhouse gas emissions but the more engineered and processed variant of rammed earth has the potential for significant emissions.\n\nEvidence of ancient use of rammed earth has been found in Neolithic archaeological sites of the Yangshao and Longshan cultures along the Yellow River in China, dating to 5000 BCE. By 2000 BCE, rammed-earth architectural techniques (夯土 \"Hāng tǔ\") were commonly used for walls and foundations in China.\n\nIn the 1800s, rammed earth was popularized in the United States by the book \"Rural Economy\" by S. W. Johnson. The technique was used to construct the Borough House Plantation and the Church of the Holy Cross in Stateburg, South Carolina, both being National Historic Landmarks.\nAn outstanding example of a rammed-earth edifice in Canada is St. Thomas Anglican Church in Shanty Bay, Ontario, erected between 1838 and 1841.\n\nFrom the 1920s through the 1940s rammed-earth construction in the US was studied. South Dakota State College extensively researched and constructed almost one hundred weathering walls of rammed earth. For over 30 years the college investigated the use of paints and plasters in relation to colloids in soil. In 1945, Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina published the results of their research of rammed earth in a pamphlet titled \"Rammed Earth Building Construction\". In 1936, on a homestead near Gardendale, Alabama, the United States Department of Agriculture constructed an experimental community of rammed-earth edifices with architect Thomas Hibben. The houses were inexpensively constructed and were sold to the public along with sufficient land for gardens and small plots for livestock. The project successfully provided valuable homes to low-income families.\n\nThe US Agency for International Development is working with undeveloped countries to improve the engineering of rammed-earth houses. It also financed the authorship of the \"Handbook of Rammed Earth\" by Texas A&M University and the Texas Transportation Institute. The \"Handbook\" was unavailable for purchase by the public until the Rammed Earth Institute International gained permission to reprint it.\n\nInterest in rammed earth declined after World War II when the cost of modern construction materials decreased. Rammed earth was considered substandard, and still is opposed by many contractors, engineers, and tradesmen who are unfamiliar with earthen construction techniques. The prevailing perception that such materials and techniques perform poorly in regions prone to earthquakes has prevented their use in much of the world. In Chile, for example, rammed earth edifices normally cannot be conventionally insured against damage or even be approved by the government.\n\nA notable example of 21st century use of rammed earth is the façade of the Nk'Mip Desert Cultural Centre in southern British Columbia, Canada. As of 2014 it is the largest rammed earth wall in North America.\n\n\nRammed earth wall construction at Central Arizona College\n"}
{"id": "34850681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34850681", "title": "Reichstag (Nazi Germany)", "text": "Reichstag (Nazi Germany)\n\nThe Reichstag (\"Diet of the Realm\"), officially the Großdeutscher Reichstag (\"Greater-German Reichstag\") after 1938, was the pseudo-Parliament of the Third Reich from 1933 to 1945. Following the Nazi seizure of power and the passing of the Enabling Act of 1933, it met only as a rubber stamp for the actions of Adolf Hitler's dictatorship—always by unanimous consent—and to listen to Hitler's speeches. In this purely ceremonial role, the Reichstag convened only 20 times, the last on 26 April 1942. The President of the Reichstag () throughout this period was Hermann Göring.\n\nDuring this period, the Reichstag was sometimes derisively referred to by the German public as the \"teuerste Gesangsverein Deutschlands\" (the most expensive singing club in Germany) due to frequent singing of the national anthem during sessions. To avoid holding scheduled elections during World War II, in 1943 Hitler extended the term of office of the current Reichstag (elected in late 1938 to serve in 1939–1943) to serve a special eight-year term ending on 30 January 1947.\n\nIn 1920–1923 and from 1930 on, the Weimar Republic's democratically elected \"Reichstag\" could be circumvented by two legal instruments not provided (as such) by the constitution:\n\nThe former practice became more and more common after 1930. Due to the Reichstag's complex system of proportional representation, it was extremely difficult for a government to have a stable majority. Frequently, when a Chancellor was voted out of office, his successor could not be assured of a majority. As a result, Chancellors were forced to use Article 48 simply to conduct the ordinary business of government.\n\nFollowing the Reichstag fire on 27 February 1933, Hitler used the President's Decree for the Protection of People and State to suspend human and civic rights and . When elections in March did not yield a Nazi majority, Hitler pressured the Reichstag to pass the Enabling Act of 1933, which allowed the government — in practice the Chancellor — to enact laws on its own authority for a four-year period. With certain exceptions (which were in practice disregarded), those laws could deviate from articles in the constitution. Though formally only the Government as a whole could enact laws, Hitler in effect exercised that right by himself.\n\nThe Nazis used the provisions of the Reichstag Fire Decree to arrest all deputies from the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) and detain several deputies from the Social Democratic Party (SPD). Several other SPD deputies saw the writing on the wall and fled into exile. Ultimately, the Enabling Act passed by a margin of 444–94, with only the SPD voting against it. However, the Nazis had intimidated the other parties to the point that even if all 81 KPD deputies and 120 SPD deputies had been present, the Enabling Act would have still passed by more than the two-thirds majority required.\n\nBefore the summer was out, all other parties had either been banned or intimidated into closing down, and the Nazi Party was the only legally permitted party in Germany. In the parliamentary elections of 12 November 1933, voters were presented with a single list from the Nazi Party under far-from-secret conditions (see below). The list carried with 92.1 percent of the vote. As a measure of the great care Hitler took to give his dictatorship the appearance of legal sanction, the Enabling Act was subsequently renewed by the Reichstag in 1937 and 1941.\n\nThe Reichstag only met 12 times between 1933 and 1939, and enacted only four laws—the Law for the Reconstruction of the Reich of 1934 (which turned Germany into a highly centralized state) and the three Nuremberg Laws of 1935. All passed unanimously. It would only meet eight more times after the start of the war.\n\nThe actual Reichstag building () was unusable after the Reichstag fire, so the Kroll Opera House was modified into a legislative chamber and served as the location of all parliamentary sessions during the Third Reich. It was chosen both for its convenient location facing the Reichstag building and for its seating capacity. The Kroll Opera House was devastated by Allied bombing on November 12, 1943 (coincidentally, the tenth anniversary of the first Nazi Reichstag's election). It was then essentially destroyed in the Battle of Berlin in 1945.\n\nThe federal election in March 1933 was the last all-German election prior to World War II that was at least partly free. From then on, while elections were still held, voters were presented with a single list comprising Nazis and \"guests\" of the party. These \"guests,\" however, fully supported Hitler. Elections during this time were not secret; voters were often threatened with severe reprisals if they failed to vote or dared to vote no. Under the circumstances, the Nazi list carried with well over 90 percent of the vote each time.\n\nUntil enactment of the Nuremberg Laws in 1935, Jews, Poles and other ethnic minorities still held nominal citizenship rights. Not only were they allowed to vote, but in districts known to have large populations of minorities the Nazis often abstained from engaging in tactics used elsewhere to compel the electorate to vote in favour of the regime. In essence, the Nazis tacitly encouraged minorities to vote against them so that their propaganda could cite the relatively unfavourable results in districts known to have large minority populations as proof of disloyalty to the Reich. Following the enactment of the Nuremberg Laws, Jews and other ethnic minorities were excluded from the electoral process altogether and the number of negative and invalid votes recorded fell dramatically – from more than five million in the referendum held in 1934 to barely half a million in the vote held in 1936.\n\nSpecial referendums were held, under similar conditions. The most famous of these was the plebiscite on the Anschluss with Austria in 1938. That vote officially recorded a 99.7% \"yes\". Following the Anschluss, the Reichstag became the \"Großdeutsche Reichstag\" (roughly translated the Greater German Imperial Diet).\n\nIn accordance with the provisions of the Weimar Republic electoral law of 1933, one seat was granted for each block of 60,000 votes. Because voter turnout was very high, and also because of new territories added to the Reich, and finally because the voting age was lowered (a compensatory measure adopted prior to the 1936 election to prevent the electorate from shrinking in size as a consequence of the Nuremberg Laws), the Reichstag grew to significantly greater and greater proportions. Finally, there were 855 deputies; Adolf Hitler was No. 433, elected to the Reichstag constituency 24 Upper Bavaria – Swabia.\n\n\nThe Großdeutsche Reichstag convened for the last time in the Kroll Opera House on 26 April 1942. It unanimously passed a decree proclaiming Hitler \"Supreme Judge of the German People,\" officially allowing him to override the judiciary and administration in all matters. Any last remnants of the privileges of the Reichstag's members were removed and the Führer became \"de jure\" the final decision-maker, with the power of life and death over every German citizen. In practice, this merely legitimized a situation that had been in place since 1933. For all intents and purposes, this extended the provisions of the Enabling Act indefinitely.\n\nOn 25 January 1943, five days before the expiration of the current Reichstag's term of office, the inauguration of a new body was postponed for another electoral term until 30 January 1947. This was to avoid holding elections while the war was still underway. With the Nazis' defeat in the war, the 1938 elections were the last for the German Reichstag ever, and would be the last all-German elections until the first elections for a reunified Germany in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39120089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39120089", "title": "Research and Development Capital Allowances", "text": "Research and Development Capital Allowances\n\nResearch and Development Capital Allowances, also known as RDAs, are a tax relief for businesses in the United Kingdom. They provide a 100 per cent first year capital allowance for research and development (R&D) capital expenditure. RDAs are the capital expenditure equivalent to the R&D tax relief scheme.\n\nRDAs were the new name given to Scientific Research Allowances (which already existed) when the R&D Tax Credit scheme was launched in 2000.\n\nR&D Tax Relief only applies to revenue expenditure - generally, costs incurred on day-to-day operations, as opposed to expenditure on capital assets.\nHowever, RDAs allow relief for R&D capital expenditure as a capital allowance. RDAs make it possible to claim 100 per cent of the capital cost against taxable profits in the year the cost is incurred. This can deliver a helpful cash flow boost and a shortened payback period.\nA company should consider applying for RDAs if it has:\n\nIf any R&D revenue expenditure is capitalised in a company's accounts, it may still qualify for R&D Tax Relief or it may only qualify under RDAs. The accounts treatment when the asset is recognised on the balance sheet, as opposed to being written-off immediately in the profit and loss account, is not conclusive of whether the expenditure is revenue or capital for tax purposes.\nThe distinction between revenue and capital expenditure in the context of its R&D tax treatment is critical. HMRC give details on how to distinguish between the two categories on their website and in their CIRD manual. Further detail can also be found in section 1308 of Corporation Tax Act 2009 (which in turn updated section 53 of Finance Act 2004) in relation to the revenue treatment of capitalised costs which relate to intangible assets.\n\nRDAs are available for expenditure of a capital nature on R&D related to a company’s trade, e.g.:\n\nSo, unlike for R&D Tax Relief where only certain categories of expenditure can be claimed, RDAs are available on most expenditure incurred for the carrying out of, or provision of facilities for, R&D (except land and the cost of acquiring intellectual property). This includes building or premises assets which would not otherwise qualify for alternative forms of capital allowances (such as the Annual Investment Allowance).\n\nThis means that where a company acquires or builds property with the intention of using the property for the purposes of carrying on qualifying research and development, then most, if not all, of the expenditure involved will qualify for a 100 per cent capital allowance in the accounting period in which the expenditure is incurred.\n\nThe Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS) give generous income and capital gains tax relief to individuals who invest in small early stage businesses.\n\nThere are various sources of information about RDAs.\n\nThere is no formal government working group for RDAs. There is however a formal working group for R&D Tax Relief to assist and develop government thinking on R&D tax initiatives. Members of this Working Group include representatives from: HMRC and HM Treasury; industry; the financial services community including large accounting firms (PWC; Deloitte; KPMG; Ernst and Young) and independent consultants (MMP Tax); and representatives from professional bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "7365966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365966", "title": "SCORE (television)", "text": "SCORE (television)\n\nSCORE was the weekend sports service of the Financial News Network which aired sports-themed programming starting in 1985. It was renamed FNN Sports in 1990 when FNN decided to go with a 24-hour feed on weekdays. SCORE was forced to dissolve after CNBC bought out FNN in 1991.\n\nSCORE used a sports ticker or crawl to update scores at the bottom of the screen. As it was a co-venture with FNN, a stock ticker was often shown across the bottom of the screen. SCORE provided scores and highlight updates every half-hour.\n\nSCORE had several shows that were televised versions of what sports talk radio is today. SCORE featured some professional sporting events, live call-in shows, and sports news shows. Live sporting events included professional wrestling, MISL soccer, college basketball, the CFL and boxing. It also broadcast a couple NASCAR races in 1988 that were originally slated for SETN before it folded.\n\nIt also showed at least two games of the 1986 National Invitation Tournament.\n\nIts most popular show was \"Time Out for Trivia\", hosted by Todd Donoho and produced by Eric Corwin. \"Time Out For Trivia\" was the first national live interactive game show in which viewers phoned in and if they correctly answered a question, they'd win a prize. One of the most popular prizes on the show was the Dirt Devil vacuum cleaner which often included a funny sound effect like an \"ooooh\" or an \"oooooh... aaaaaah.\" Humor was almost always an ingredient, particularly in the multiple-choice questions, which often included an obvious nonsports figure as one of the possible answers. \n\n\"Time Out For Trivia\" became a cult hit on cable TV, receiving many glowing reviews in newspapers and magazines. Gary Nuhn, a columnist for the \"Dayton Daily News\", has called TOFT \"cable TV at its best,\" and Wendell Barnhouse, radio/TV columnist for the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\", says it is \"one of life's joys.\" \"Sports Illustrated\" did a feature about \"TOFT\" in its famous swimsuit issue. Donoho and Corwin did over 1,000 shows together, including a 1,000th show \"special edition\", a one-hour program which featured highlights from the first 999 shows. Donoho and Corwin worked together on \"TOFT\" and other shows at FNN/SCORE from 1985 through 1989 before joining the sports department at KABC. Much of this show was incorporated into a show on KABC called \"Monday Night Live\", which aired after \"Monday Night Football\" from to , when Donoho's contract was not renewed by KABC. The show was then renamed \"Sports Zone\" with host Rob Fukuzaki and it remained an \"MNF\" postgame show until the package left ABC after the 2005 season. \"Sports Zone\" remains on KABC, following many events televised by the network.\n\nOther call-in shows included \"The Fan Speaks Out\", \"The Final Score\", and \"The Sports Collector\".\n\nNews shows featured included \"Tennis Talk\", a baseball program called \"The Hot Stove League\", and a sports wagering program with Wayne Root. Other hosts included Bill Brown, Byron Day, John Loesing, Hugh Malay and Fred Wallin. Many of the shows were directed by Brad Toberman. Show producers included Jim Battey, Michael Pierce, Steven Herbert, Gary Kubik, Hugh Malay, Eric Corwin and Steven Friedman.\n\nThe professional wrestling programming exposed fans throughout the country to regional territory wrestling promotions. These territories included the Mid-Atlantic with Ric Flair and Chief Wahoo McDaniel, Memphis with Jerry 'the King' Lawler, Texas with the Von Erichs and the Maivia family's Hawaii promotion with Rocky Johnson, King Curtis, Don Muraco, Lars Anderson, Superfly Snuka, Bruiser Brody and many Japanese wrestlers. It also prominently featured wrestling from the Continental Wrestling Federation including matches featuring Eddie Gilbert, Tom Prichard, and The Dirty White Boy.\n\n"}
{"id": "34358703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34358703", "title": "Sections 4 and 10 of the Human Rights Act 1998", "text": "Sections 4 and 10 of the Human Rights Act 1998\n\nSections 4 and 10 of the Human Rights Act 1998 are provisions that enable the Human Rights Act 1998 to take effect in the United Kingdom. Section 4 allows courts to issue a declaration of incompatibility where it is impossible to use section 3 to interpret primary or subordinate legislation so that their provisions are compatible with the articles of the European Convention of Human Rights, which are also part of the Human Rights Act. In these cases, interpretation to comply may conflict with legislative intent. It is considered a measure of last resort. A range of superior courts can issue a declaration of incompatibility.\n\nA declaration of incompatibility is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made, nor can a declaration invalidate legislation. Section 4 therefore achieves its aim through political rather than legal means, including through Section 10 which allows the government to amend legislation without full legislative approval. A remedial order can only be made after a declaration of incompatibility or a similar finding of a European court with all appeals must have been complete or expressly renounced. Parliament has used Section 10 to make small adjustments where possible to bring legislation into line with Convention rights although entirely new pieces of legislation are sometimes necessary.\n\nHuman rights are rights taken to be universal, of considerable importance, and relate to the individual and not collectively; among other things, they can grant freedoms, claims, immunities and powers. The European Convention on Human Rights was drawn up in the wake of the Second World War to uphold such rights. The United Kingdom ratified the European Convention on Human Rights in 1951, and accepted the right of individual petition to the European Court of Human Rights, Strasbourg, in 1966. The Human Rights Act 1998 made most Convention rights directly enforceable in a British court for the first time. Excluded are Articles 1 and 13, which the government argued were fulfilled by the Act itself, and therefore were not relevant to rights enforced under it. The Human Rights Act has had a considerable effect on British law, and remains an Act of \"fundamental constitutional importance\".\n\nSection 4 allows a court to make a \"declaration of incompatibility\" if it is \"satisfied that the provision is incompatible with a Convention right\". Section 3 requires that courts interpret legislation as compatible with Convention rights wherever possible. Lord Steyn has described a declaration of incompatibility was a \"measure of last resort\". However, \"In re S\" established that there may be cases where interpretation can go too far; that the court can assume an administrative power it would not ordinarily have, with practical consequences that it is not best placed to consider: \"a meaning which departs substantially from a fundamental feature of an Act of Parliament is likely to have crossed the boundary between interpretation and amendment.\" The \"thrust\" of a statute is important; going against the \"thrust\" requires legislative power that the courts do not have. As in \"R (Anderson) v Home Secretary\", a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 of the Act may be the only appropriate remedy.\n\nThe United Kingdom recognises parliamentary sovereignty. The legislature is above the courts, and the courts cannot therefore declare legislation invalid. Section 4 reflects this, and states that courts must continue to apply legislation, even if incompatible with Convention rights. Section 4(6)(a) notes that a declaration of incompatibility \"does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of the provision in respect of which it is given\", which is similar to Section 3(2)(b). \"R v Lyons\" confirmed that evidence could be used, even where incompatible with Convention rights, if it was expressly allowed under statute. A declaration of incompatibility is merely a flag that alerts Parliament that people's human rights are being infringed. Accordingly, it has no more legal effect than the fact of incompatible.\n\nSection 4(4) allows the court to issue a declaration of incompatibility if altering secondary legislation is impossible because it would necessarily conflict with a statute. Following amendment by the Constitutional Reform Act 2005, the Armed Forces Act 2006 and the Mental Capacity Act 2005, courts which are entitled to issue a declaration of incompatibility are the Supreme Court, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, the Courts Martial Appeal Court, the High Court and Court of Appeal (England and Wales and Northern Ireland), and the High Court of Justiciary (Scotland)) and Court of Protection in particular roles.\n\nIn \"A v Home Secretary\", the detention of foreign nationals under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 was ruled to be in contravention of Article 14 of the Convention. They could be detained in circumstances British nationals could not, discriminating on the grounds of nationality. This discrimination was explicit and could not be interpreted to follow the Convention using Section 3. Accordingly, a declaration of incompatibility was made. In \"Bellinger v Bellinger\", the court followed a European case, \"Goodwin v United Kingdom\", in deciding that the failure to allow persons who had undergone gender reassignment to marry under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 was incompatible with Article 8 of the Convention. Altering this would involve a \"fundamental change in the traditional concept of marriage\", which was the domain of the legislature and not the courts; accordingly, a declaration of incompatibility was issued. In \"R (Anderson) v Home Secretary\", the court found that assigning the decision over the tariff of a mandatory life sentence to the Home Secretary was in breach of Article 6 of the Convention – however, he was explicitly given it under the statute, and it could not be removed merely by interpretation.\n\nUnder Section 4(6)(b), a declaration of incompatibility is not even \"binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made\". Since a declaration cannot invalidate or disapply legislation, it achieves its aim through political rather than legal means– it is for Parliament to correct the law, or continue to be in contravention of the Convention. Section 10 provides one route for correction: \"If a Minister of the Crown considers that there are compelling reasons for proceeding under this section, he may by order make such amendments to the legislation as he considers necessary to remove the incompatibility\" (section 10(2)). It is designed to be a quick method; although it must be put before parliament, a remedial order does not require full legislative approval. This summary process was controversial, as it ignored the possibility for debate. However, the time required for this could not be provided in reality. In any case, approval is still required before the order comes into force, or, in the case of urgent legislation, within 120 days of it coming into force. A remedial order can only be made after a declaration of incompatibility or a similar finding of a European court, which will have been justified and discussed before being made. Under Section 10(1), all appeals must have been complete or expressly renounced.\n\nParliament has used Section 10 to make small adjustments where possible to bring legislation into line with Convention rights. In the \"Anderson\" and \"Bellinger\" cases, entirely new pieces of legislation were drafted and passed in the normal process, since they changed the law more considerably than the Section 10 process would allow.\n\n"}
{"id": "45677138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45677138", "title": "Simpson v Attorney-General", "text": "Simpson v Attorney-General\n\n\"Simpson v Attorney General\" [\"Baigent's case\"] [1994] 3 NZLR 667 is a leading case in New Zealand regarding the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act, that upheld damages against the police for an unreasonable search.\n\nThe case involved police who had been legally issued a search warrant relating to a drug bust but executed the warrant at the wrong address. Despite knowing the address was incorrect, the police continued to search the property. The family of the person who had been wrongfully searched sued the Crown arguing breaches of section 21 of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990, which protects against unreasonable search and seizure. Previously, no case had awarded damages for breaches of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act and there was no mention of damages in the legislation itself. The Crown argued that they had immunity from prosecution or alternatively that if they did not have immunity, the plaintiffs were not entitled to any remedy other than a declaration of non-compliance with the Bill of Rights. The Court of Appeal felt that a mere declaration would be \"toothless\" and subsequently awarded damages. \n\nThe decision is significant for multiple reasons. It allows plaintiffs to initiate a cause of action for breaches of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act, a previously unavailable remedy. Where a plaintiff has an existing cause of action but feels the remedy is insufficient, they are also able to sue under this ground additionally. \n\nThe case was criticised as representing an example of judicial activism, and that Parliament did not intend to offer financial compensation for breaches of the act. This was particularly true because in New Zealand, the act is not entrenched nor does it achieve the status of \"Supreme Law\" like similar nations have in their constitutions. However, following the decision, the Law Commission advised Parliament not to overrule the decision, and Parliament has since followed this advice.\n\nDetective Murray Robert Drummond was advised by an informant that a Troy O'Brien was involved in the use and sale of cannabis at his residence of 16 Main Road, Korokoro, Lower Hutt. While he was preparing his application for a search warrant, he discovered that there was no \"Main street\" in Korokoro. Further inquiries suggested the address was either 16 London Street, or 16 Korokoro Road. The detective then asked the local power company about whether Troy O'Brien was the account holder for either, and the power company erroneously informed the police that Troy O'Brien was the account holder for both addresses.\n\nFor unknown reasons, the detective then filed for a search warrant for only 16 London Street, which later turned out to be the address of Elisabeth Simpson, and not Troy O'Brien as intended.\n\nOn 18 October 1991, the police arrived at the London Street address to execute the search warrant. Upon arrival in the street, the police told any suspicious neighbours to \"mind their own business\", but then later relented and asked the neighbours whether Baigent lived at this address, and were not only told that Troy O'Brien did not reside at this address, but that the address they were looking for was 16 Korokoro Road.\n\nThe search warrant continued, and they talked to Baigent's son, who informed them they had the wrong address, and even showed them his passport to prove his identity. When this had no effect, he got his sister on the telephone, who was a solicitor. She spoke to the police there, told them she was an officer of the High Court, and advised them that they had the wrong address.\n\nThe police replied \"We often get the wrong (address), but while we are here we will have a look around anyway\", and the police proceeded with the search, despite clearly having doubts of the address being incorrect.\n\nBaigent claimed this was an unreasonable search, which is illegal under section 21 of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act (1990), and sued the Attorney General (on behalf of the police). The police argued that the search was backed by a court issued search warrant, and that even if the search was a breach of the Bill of Rights Act, the Act made no reference to the entitlement of damages, adding that the police had immunity for damages under section 6(5) of the Crown Proceedings Act [1956] anyway.\n\nAt first instance, the AG managed to have Baigent's claim struck out.\n\nIn Attorney General v Chapman, in a 3 to 2 decision, the Supreme Court restricted the application of damages to only acts done by the executive or legislative branches, thereby excluding damages for breaches by the judiciary.\n"}
{"id": "31696946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31696946", "title": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva", "text": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva\n\nSociedad anónima deportiva (\"Public limited sports company\") is a special type of public limited company in Spain. The new legal status was introduced in 1990 to improve financial management and transparency in sports clubs. Many Spanish football and basketball clubs add the suffix S.A.D. to the end of their official name, e.g. Club Atlético de Madrid, S.A.D..\n\nEvery club which plays in Segunda División or Liga ACB and remains in the league is obliged to convert to S.A.D. status.\n\nFor historical reasons, Athletic Club, FC Barcelona, Real Madrid and Osasuna were allowed to retain their status as non-commercial sports associations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20308980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20308980", "title": "Stock-Raising Homestead Act", "text": "Stock-Raising Homestead Act\n\nThe Stock-Raising Homestead Act of 1916 provided settlers of public land—a full section or its equivalent—for ranching purposes. Unlike the Homestead Act of 1862 or the Enlarged Homestead Act of 1909, land homesteaded under the 1916 act separated surface rights from subsurface rights, resulting in what later became known as split estates. The subsurface rights, also known as mineral rights, are the foundation of recent oil and gas law in the United States.\n\nUnder the act no cultivation of lands was required, but some range improvements were mandated as necessary.\n\nBy 2006, the Stock-Raising Homestead Act and subsequent legislation and other legal changes resulted in the federal government administering the subsurface rights to about of land, of which have surface rights owned privately or by a U.S. state.\n\nCHAP. 9. --An Act To provide for stock-raising homesteads, and for other purposes.\n\n\"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,\" That from and after the passage of this Act it shall be lawful for any person qualified to make entry under the homestead laws of the United States to make a stock-raising homestead entry for not exceeding six hundred and forty acres of unappropriated unreserved public land in reasonably compact form: \"Provided, however,\" That the land so entered shall theretofore have been designated by the Secretary of the Interior as \"stock-raising lands.\"\n\nSEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized, on application or otherwise, to designate as stock-raising lands subject to entry under this Act lands the surface of which is, in his opinion, chiefly valuable for grazing and raising forage crops, do not contain merchantable timber, are not susceptible of irrigation from any known source of water supply, and are of such character that six hundred and forty acres are reasonably required for the support of a family: \"Provided,\" That where any person qualified to make original or additional entry under the provisions of this Act shall make application to enter any unappropriated public land which has not been designated as subject to entry (provided said application is accompanied and supported by properly corroborated affidavit of the applicant, in duplicate, showing prima facie that the land applied for is of the character contemplated by this Act), such application, together with the regular fees and commissions shall be received by the register and receiver of the land district in which said land is located and suspended until it shall have been determined by the Secretary of the Interior whether said land is actually of that character. That during such suspension the land described in the application shall not be disposed of; and if the said land shall be designated under this Act, then such application shall be allowed; otherwise it shall be rejected, subject to appeal; but no right to occupy such lands shall be acquired by reason of said application until said lands have been designated as stock-raising lands.\n\nSEC. 3. That any qualified homestead entryman may make entry under the homestead laws of lands so designated by the Secretary of the Interior, according to legal subdivisions, in areas not exceeding six hundred and forty acres, and in compact form so far as may be subject to the provisions of this Act, and secure title thereto by compliance with the terms of the homestead laws: \"Provided,\" That a former homestead entry of land of the character described in section two hereof shall not be a bar to the entry of a tract within a radius of twenty miles from such former entry under the provisions of this Act, subject to the requirements of law as to residence and improvements, which, together with the former entry, shall not exceed six hundred and forty acres: \"Provided further,\" That the entryman shall be required to enter all contiguous areas of the character herein described open to entry prior to the entry of any noncontiguous land: \"Provided further,\" That instead of cultivation as required by the homestead laws the entryman shall be required to make permanent improvements upon the land entered before final proof is submitted tending to increase the value of the same for stock-raising purposes, of the value of not less than $1.25 per acre, and at least one-half of such improvements shall be placed upon the land within three years after the date of entry thereof.\n\nSEC. 4. That any homestead entryman of lands of the character herein described, who has not submitted final proof upon his existing entry, shall have the right to enter, subject to the provisions of this Act, such amount of contiguous lands designated for entry under the provisions of this Act as shall not, together with the amount embraced in his original entry, exceed six hundred and forty acres, and residence upon the original entry shall be credited on both entries, but improvements must be made on the additional entry equal to $1.25 for each acre thereof.\n\nSEC. 5. That persons who have submitted final proof upon, or received patent for, lands of the character herein described under the homestead laws, and who own and reside upon the land so acquired, may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make additional entry for and obtain patent to contiguous lands designated for entry under the provisions of this Act, which, together with the area theretofore acquired under the homestead law, shall not exceed six hundred and forty acres, on proof of the expenditure required by this Act on account of permanent improvements upon the additional entry.\n\nSEC. 6. That any person who is the head of a family, or who has arrived at the age of twenty-one years and is a citizen of the United States, who has entered or acquired under the homestead laws, prior to the passage of this Act, lands of the character described in this Act, the area of which is less than six hundred and forty acres, and who is unable to exercise the right of additional entry herein conferred because no lands subject to entry under this Act, adjoin the tract so entered or acquired or lie within the twenty mile limit provided for in this Act, may, upon submitting proof that he resides upon and has not sold the land so entered or acquired and against which land there are no encumbrances, relinquish or reconvey to the United States the land so occupied, entered, or acquired, and in lieu thereof, within the same land-office district, may enter and acquire title to six hundred and forty acres of the land subject to entry under this Act, but must show compliance with all the provisions of existing homestead laws except as modified herein.\nSEC. 7. That the commutation provisions of the homestead laws shall not apply to any entires made under this Act.\n\nSEC. 8. That any homestead entrymen or patentees who shall be entitled to additional entry under this Act shall have, for ninety days after the designation of lands subject to entry under the provisions of this Act and contiguous to those entered or owned and occupied by him, the preferential right to make additional entry as provided in this Act: \"Provided,\" That where such lands contiguous to the lands of two or more entrymen or patentees entitled to additional entries under this section are not sufficient in area to enable such entrymen to secure by additional entry the maximum amounts to which they are entitled, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make an equitable division of the lands among the several entrymen or patentees, applying to exercise preferential rights, such division to be in tracts of not less than forty acres, or other legal subdivision, and so made as to equalize as nearly as possible the area which such entrymen and patentees will acquire by adding the tracts embraced in additional entries to the lands originally held or owned by them: \"Provided further,\" That where but one such tract of vacant land may adjoin the lands of two or more entrymen or patentees entitled to exercise preferential right hereunder, the tract in question may be entered by the person who first submits to the local land office his application to exercise said preferential right.\n\nSEC. 9. That all entries made and patents issued under the provisions of this Act shall be subject to and contain a reservation to the United States of all the coal and other minerals in the lands so entered and patented, together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the same. The coal and other mineral deposits in such lands shall be subject to disposal by the United States in accordance with the provisions of the coal and mineral land laws in force at the time of such disposal. Any person qualified to locate and enter the coal or other mineral deposits, or having the right to mine and remove the same under the laws of the United States, shall have the right at all times to enter upon the lands entered or patented, as provided by this Act, for the purpose of prospecting for coal or other mineral therein, provided he shall not injure, damage, or destroy the permanent improvements of the entryman or patentee, and shall be liable to and shall compensate the entryman or patentee for all damages to the crops on such lands by reason of such prospecting. Any person who has acquired from the United States the coal or other mineral deposits in any such land, or the right to mine and remove the same, may reenter and occupy so much of the surface thereof as may be required for all purposes reasonably incident to the mining or removal of the coal or other minerals, first, upon securing the written consent or waiver of the homestead entryman or patentee; second, upon payment of the damages to crops or other tangible improvements to the owner thereof, where agreement may be had as to the amount thereof; or, third, in lieu of either of the foregoing provisions, upon the execution of a good and sufficient bond or undertaking to the United States for the use and benefit of the entryman or owner of the land, to secure the payment of such damages to the crops or tangible improvements of the entryman or owner, as may be determined and fixed in an action brought upon the bond or undertaking in a court of competent jurisdiction against the principal and sureties thereon, such bond or undertaking to be in form and in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior and to be filed with and approved by the register and receiver of the local land office of the district wherein the land is situate, subject to appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land Office: \"Provided,\" That all patents issued for the coal or other mineral deposits herein reserved shall contain appropriate notations declaring them to be subject to the provisions of this Act with reference to the disposition, occupancy, and use of the land as permitted to an entryman under this Act.\n\nSEC. 10. That lands containing water holes or other bodies of water needed or used by the public for watering purposes shall not be designated under this Act but may be reserved under the provisions of the Act of June twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and ten, and such lands heretofore or hereafter reserved shall, while so reserved, be kept and held open to the public use for such purposes under such general rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe: \"Provided,\" That the Secretary may, in his discretion, also withdraw from entry lands necessary to insure access by the public to watering places reserved hereunder and needed for use in the movement of stock to summer and winter ranges or to shipping points, and may prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the proper administration and use of such lands: \"Provided further,\" That such driveways shall not be of greater number or width than shall be clearly necessary for the purpose proposed and in no event shall be more than one mile in width for a driveway less than twenty miles in length, not more than two miles in width for driveways over twenty and not more than thirty-five miles in length and not over five miles in width for driveways over thirty-five miles in length: \"Provided further,\" That all stock so transported over such driveways shall be moved an average of not less than three miles per day for sheep and goats and an average of not less than six miles per day for cattle and horses.\nSEC. 11. That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to make all necessary rules and regulations in harmony with the provisions and purposes of this Act for the purpose of carrying the same into effect.\n\nApproved, December 29, 1916.\n\nSections 291, 300, and 302 were repealed by the enactment of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.\n\nSection 299 was amended by the enactment of Public Law 103-23 pertaining to the reservation of coal and mineral rights on April 16, 1993. The legal document referred to as the broad form deed previously severed property into surface and mineral rights. The amendment signed in 1993 required coal and mining companies to do four different things: notify the land owners with a written letter of intent before beginning mining, make a plan that included minimal damages to the land, obtain a letter of consent from the surface owner, and give the land owners a letter promising complete reclamation and compensation.\n"}
{"id": "316456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316456", "title": "Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1875)", "text": "Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1875)\n\nThe (Russian:Петербургский договор) between the Empire of Japan and Empire of Russia was signed on 7 May 1875, and its ratifications exchanged at Tokyo on 22 August 1875.\n\nIts terms stipulated that Japan cedes to Russia the part of Sakhalin island it then owned in exchange for the group of the Kuril Islands owned by Russia (between Iturup island and the Kamchatka Peninsula). Consequently, Sakhalin island as a whole became Russian territory, and the entire Kuril archipelago Japanese territory.\n\nThe authentic text of the Treaty is written in French. Differences with its Japanese translation contributed to the controversy on what constitutes the Kuril islands, to which Japan renounced in 1951 by the Treaty of San Francisco.\n\nThe Treaty of Shimoda of 1855 had defined the border between Japan and Russia to be the strait between Iturup (Etorofu) and Urup (Uruppu) islands in the Kurile chain, but had left the status of Sakhalin (Karafuto) open. Without well-defined borders, incidents between Russian and Japanese settlers began to occur. In order to remedy this situation the Japanese government sent an ambassador, Enomoto Takeaki, to Saint Petersburg to clearly define the border in this area. After a year of negotiations, Japan agreed to renounce its claims to Sakhalin, with compensation for Japanese residents, access by the fishing fleet to the Sea of Okhotsk, ten-years free use of Russian ports in the area and ownership of all of the Kuril Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "57348098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57348098", "title": "Trothplight", "text": "Trothplight\n\nTrothplight is a system for recording contracts in a pre-literate society. A physical token was manipulated or exchanged before witnesses. Surviving instances in Western society are the engagement ring and the practice of swearing upon a Bible. In literate societies written contracts have replaced trothplight.\n"}
{"id": "2638350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2638350", "title": "Twin deficits hypothesis", "text": "Twin deficits hypothesis\n\nIn macroeconomics, the twin deficits hypothesis or the twin deficits phenomenon, is the proposition that there is a strong causal link between a nation's government budget balance and its current account balance.\n\nStandard macroeconomic theory points to how a budget deficit can be a contributing factor to a current account deficit. This link can be seen from considering the national accounting model of the economy:\n\nwhere \"Y\" represents national income or GDP, \"C\" is consumption, \"I\" is investment, \"G\" is government spending and \"X–M\" stands for net exports. This represents GDP because all the production in an economy (the left hand side of the equation) is used as consumption (\"C\"), investment (\"I\"), government spending (\"G\"), and goods that are exported in excess of imports (\"NX\"). Another equation defining GDP using alternative terms (which in theory results in the same value) is\n\nwhere \"Y\" is again GDP, \"C\" is consumption, \"S\" is saving, and \"T\" is taxes. This is because national income is also equal to output, and all individual income either goes to pay for consumption (\"C\"), to pay taxes (\"T\"), or is saved (\"S\").\n\nSince\nformula_3, and\nformula_4, then\n\nformula_5, which simplifies to the sectoral balances identity\n\nformula_6\n\nIf (T-G) is negative, we have a budget deficit.\n\nNow, assume an economy already at potential output, meaning Y is fixed. In this case, if the deficit increases, and saving remains the same, then this last equation implies that either investment (I) must fall (see crowding out), or net exports (NX) must fall, causing a trade deficit. Hence, a budget deficit can also lead to a trade deficit, causing a twin deficit.\n\nThough the economics behind which of the two is used to finance the government deficit can get more complicated than what is shown above, the essence of it is that if foreigners' savings pay for the budget deficit, the current account deficit grows. If the country's own citizens' savings finance the borrowing, it may cause a crowding out effect (in an economy at or near potential output, or full employment).\n\nIn the US, the budget deficit is financed about half from foreigners, half domestically. Therefore, with an additional $400 billion deficit, the trade deficit would, according to the theory, be increased by some $200 billion.\nAn economy is deemed to have a double deficit if it has a current account deficit \"and\" a fiscal deficit. In effect, the economy is borrowing from foreigners in exchange for foreign-made goods. Traditional macroeconomics predicts that persistent double deficits will lead to currency devaluation/depreciation that can be severe and sudden.\n\nIn the case of the United States, the twin deficit graph as a percentage of GDP shows that the budget and current account deficits did move broadly in sync from 1981 until the early 1990s, but since then, they have moved apart. Data thus confirm that as a government budget deficit widens, the current account falls, but the relationship is complicated by what happens to investment and private saving.\n\nformula_7\n\nformula_8\n\nAbove the equation, it's verifiable that CA will deteriorate as government expenditure exceeds the amount of tax is collected.\n\nOne way to understand this process intuitively is by thinking through two different markets. First consider the Foreign Exchange market. At equilibrium the quantity supplied=the quantity demanded. Thus, Imports + Capital outflow=Exports + Capital Inflow. Rearranging this equation we find that Imports-Exports=Capital Inflow-Capital Outflow. Because Imports-Exports=Trade Deficit and Capital Inflow-Capital Outflow=Net Capital Inflow, we get the equation Trade Deficit=Net Capital Inflow (or Current Account deficit = Capital Account Surplus).\n\nNext we must consider the market for loanable funds. The equilibrium here is Savings+Net Capital Inflow=Investment+Budget Deficit. However, taking the Forex market into consideration we know that the Trade Deficit is equal to Net Capital Inflow. We can thus substitute for:\n\nformula_9\n\nRearranging algebraically we find that:\n\nformula_10\n\nWhat we can gather from this is the understanding of why an increased budget deficit goes up and down in tandem with the Trade Deficit. This is where we derive the appellation the Twin Deficits: if the US budget deficit goes up then either household savings must go up, the trade deficit must go up, or private investment will decrease.\n\n"}
{"id": "43263654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43263654", "title": "Tzelepides", "text": "Tzelepides\n\nThe Tzelepides were officials of the Ottoman state who collected the tzelepiko tax (resm-iagnam-Icelebkeşan) on large scale livestock breeders.\n\nThe Ottoman government created this tax to help cover its needs in certain livestock products. Its payment in kind and its collection exclusively by the state led to the establishment of a special mechanism for its administration. The tax collectors were called \"tzelepides\" (celep). The need for a flexible state agency, that will oversee the supply and prompt delivery of the required animals for consumption, gradually involves the livestock breeding populations in the mechanism for the collection of the tax. Through this process they are turned into one of the empire’s productive forces, while the capacity of a tzelepis is slowly identified with livestock owners who have undertaken the task to supply the state with livestock products. This upgraded relationship with the state provides them with the privilege to access or intervene in the state mechanisms, which in turn maintains or even instigates their pursuitof a stronger economic presence. This is realized when livestock breeding develops into a broader commercial activity. This way these “state sheepherders” sell part of their production on the free market, thus achieving greater profits and greater economic power.\n\n"}
{"id": "886193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886193", "title": "Ukase", "text": "Ukase\n\nAn ukase, or ukaz (; \"\" , formally \"imposition\"), in Imperial Russia, was a proclamation of the tsar, government, or a religious leader (patriarch) that had the force of law. \"Edict\" and \"decree\" are adequate translations using the terminology and concepts of Roman law.\n\nFrom the Russian term, the word \"ukase\" has entered the English language with the meaning of \"any proclamation or decree; an order or regulation of a final or arbitrary nature\".\n\nPrior to the 1917 October Revolution, the term applied in Russia to an edict or ordinance, legislative or administrative, having the force of law. A ukase proceeded either from the emperor or from the senate, which had the power of issuing such ordinances for the purpose of carrying out existing decrees. All such decrees were promulgated by the senate. A difference was drawn between the ukase signed by the emperor’s hand and his verbal ukase, or order, made upon a report submitted to him.\n\nAfter the Revolution, a government proclamation of wide meaning was called a \"decree\" (Russian: декрет, dekret); more specific proclamations were called \"ukaz\". Both terms are usually translated as \"decree\".\n\nAccording to the Russian Federation's 1993 constitution, an \"ukaz\" is a Presidential decree. The English term \"Executive Order\" is also used by the official website as an equivalent of the Russian \"ukaz\".\n\nAs normative legal acts, such \"ukazes\" have a status of by-law in the hierarchy of legal acts (along with a Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation, instructions and directions of other officials). Presidential decrees may not alter the regulations of existing legal sources - , the Constitution of Russia, Federal Constitutional Laws, Federal Laws and laws of Russian regions - and may be superseded by any of these laws. For example, thanks to Article 15 of the Constitution of Russia, the European Convention on Human Rights, as an international document, has higher status than any Russian law or presidential executive order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5315459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5315459", "title": "University of Ruhuna", "text": "University of Ruhuna\n\nThe University of Ruhuna ( (Ruhuṇa Viśvavidyālaya, Rohana sarasaviya),; ) is a public university in Matara, Sri Lanka.\n\nIt is the only university in Southern Sri Lanka( also referred to as the \"Kingdom of Ruhuna\"). Its established by a Special Presidential Decree on 1 September 1978 as Ruhuna University College and upgraded to a fully-fledged university on 1 February 1984 by a University order. It is informally known as Ruhuna University or simply Ruhuna.\n\nThe University is organised into ten faculties throughout the Southern province of Sri Lanka. Its main campus is located in Wellamadama complex in Matara. The faculties of Agriculture and Technology are located in Kamburupitiya (Matara), whilst the faculties of Engineering, Medicine and Allied Health Sciences are located in Galle.\nIts LKR 2.982 billion financial endowments are used for academic and research purposes of the university. It operates the Ruhuna Library, which is one of the largest academic and research library systems in Sri Lanka. The Ruhuna University Library System is centred in the main library at the Wellamadama main campus and comprises nearly four other libraries holding over 200,000 volumes.\n\nThe idea of a University of Ruhuna was proposed by the Cabinet Minister of Education & Higher Education at the time Dr. Nissanka Wijeyeratne. Ruhuna University was opened on 1 September 1978, fulfilling a desire of the people of the south to have a university in the region. It was housed in the Technical College buildings at Meddawatte, Matara with about 40 academics, 50 non-academics, and 275 students.\nThe enactment of the Universities Act No. 46 of 1978 enabled the University Grants Commission to establish the Ruhuna University College. As a result, on 27 August 1978, the Prime Minister J. R. Jayawardene declared open the Ruhuna University College at Meddawatta, Matara, with Prof. Mervyn W. Thenabadu as its Director.\n\nThe Ruhuna University College was shifted to the new premises in 1984 following which it was elevated to full university status.The new location was selected for the main campus at Wellamadama, two kilometers from Matara facing Matara-Kataragama main road. Professor G. P. Samarawickrama was the first Vice-Chancellor of the University. Hon. Ronnie De Mel, inaugurating the University after being elevated from campus to University status in 1984.\nDuring the past 25 years, it has witnessed considerable progress and development in the academic, research and outreach spheres with substantial improvement in intellectual and infrastructure resources and has emerged as a leader of higher education in Sri Lanka.\nTo date, it has produced about 50,000 graduates and over 75 postgraduates. Around 100 postgraduate students are pursuing master and doctoral programs in disciplines that are of relevance to the development of the region in particular and the country in general.\n\nThe University of Ruhuna is a state university and depends on the government for much of its annual grant, which is provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Due to this, its administration is heavily influenced by the UGC. Undergraduate education is completely free. The Governance of the university is under the provisions of the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 and the Universities (Amendment) Act No. 7 of 1985 along with its own by-laws.\n\nThe university's administration is based upon that of the former University of Ceylon consisting of a dual structure of bodies: the Council (formally known as the University Court which is the governing body) and the Academic Senate (academic affairs).\n\nMuch of the appointments to officers and faculty are carried out by these bodies, however on the recommendations of the UGC.\n\nThe Chancellor is the head of the university and awards all degrees, although most duties are carried out by the Vice-Chancellor. The appointment is made by the President of Sri Lanka, to a distinguished person in academics, clergy or in the civil society. The chancellor is Rajakeeya Panditha Pallaththara Sri Sumanajothi Nahimi Thero.\n\nDay-to-day management of the University is undertaken by the Vice-Chancellor, appointed by the President of Sri Lanka. The current Vice-Chancellor is Gamini Senanayake.\n\n\nA new building complex for the university was designed by the world-renowned architect Geoffrey Bawa and was constructed at Wellamadama with a unique architectural landscape. The RUC was shifted to the new premises in 1984, and it was elevated to full university status.\nEdward Reed & Beg Company designed the buildings and the Ballast Nedam Company of the Netherlands completed the construction at all three sites: Wellamadama, Mapalana, and Karapitiya with a unique architectural landscape.\n\nThe 30-hectare site straddled three steep hills, the westernmost overlooking the sea and separated from the other two by a low-lying valley that carried the main road from Matara to Hambantota.Architects placed the vice-chancellor's lodge and a guest house on the western hill and flooded the intervening valley to create a buffer between the road and the main campus. He then wrapped the buildings of the science faculty around the northern hill and those of the arts faculty around the southern hill, using the depression between them for the library and other central facilities.\nAfter Peradeniya, which was selected for the beauty of its surrounding, Ruhuna university was the only other campus built with similar ambition.Located in the south of the island, this was the second university complex since the University of Ceylon, to be designed on the same lavish scale and style.\n\nIn Geoffery Bawa's architecture, the central role of geography must be a highlight.The buildings as they are conceived are influenced by the \"character of the natural terrain, the vegetation, the potential for developing vistas out into the landscape and hence light and shade and of course the related and ever-present aspect of climate\".In the Ruhuna campus construction are intimately tied to the topography and the territory they occupy.\nThe Rabindranath Tagore Memorial Auditorium is the largest auditorium in any of the universities in Sri Lanka.\n\nIt has ten faculties: Agriculture, Engineering, Fisheries and Marine Sciences & Technology, Humanities and Social Sciences, Management and Finance, Medicine, Science, Graduate studies , Technology and Allied Health Sciences.\n\nThe university has responded to the needs of the country and established two new faculties — 'Management and Finance' and 'Fisheries and Marine Science' — the first of its kind in Sri Lanka. Thus, the university has as many faculties as the University of Peradeniya, the largest in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe main campus is at Matara. The faculties of Engineering and Medicine are at Hapugala and Karapitiya, about 5 km from Galle city center. The Faculty of Agriculture is at Mapalana, 16 km north of Matara and 2 km south of Kamburupitiya.\n\nThe University of Ruhuna undertakes research, mostly with other universities, government organisations, semi-governmental organisations and non-governmental organisations. The research is funded by both Sri Lankan and foreign entities.\n\nThe University of Ruhuna established during the same year launched Rohana, a multidisciplinary journal devoted to publishing research articles related to Applied & Natural Sciences, Management & Social Sciences, and Medical Sciences in 1985. The first issue of the journal, Tropical Agricultural Research and Extension(TARE) was launched by the University of Ruhuna in 1998 followed by a government\npublication the Annals of the Sri Lanka Department of Agriculture in 1999, providing additional venues for publishing articles on agriculture. Journal of the Faculty of Humanities & Social Sciences, University of Ruhuna, commenced in 1998 providing an additional venue for research output in the area of humanities and social sciences.\nThe University of Ruhuna publishes some of the key academic journals in the country.\n\nThe university has 5 libraries. The Ruhuna University Library is the central research library, which holds over 0.2 million volumes. It is a legal deposit library, therefore it is entitled to request a free copy of every book published in Sri Lanka. In addition to the University Library and its dependents, almost every faculty or department has a specialised library; for example, Agriculture, Medical, Allied Health Science and Engineering faculty libraries are at the Mapalana, Karapitiya, and Hapugala campuses.\n\nThe library holds about 200,000 books and about 300 journals (foreign and local). These resources are available in print and electronic formats. Services include reference, lending, interlibrary loan, current awareness services, workshops and maintaining library website with links to resources for which the library have subscribed as well as those available free. The library website also provides access to the CD collection and the Online Public Access catalog. According to library statistics, annual circulation of resources is more than 123,000.\n\nStudents at the University of Ruhuna run over 100 clubs and organizations. These include cultural and religious groups, academic clubs, and common-interest organizations. The Ruhuna Students' Union (RSU) is considered the highest body which represents all internal students separate student unions operate in each faculty. These student societies include:\n\nAccording to the amended University Act of 1988, Section 26, students of each faculty can form the Faculty Union of all students of that faculty. The main objective of this Union is to promote academic actions of the student population and to work for the advancement and welfare of the students and the faculty.\n\nThe university is equipped with a large gymnasium which is the third best in Sri Lanka with seating capacity for 3000. Training facilities for many indoor sports activities are available here for students after 12.00 p.m. every weekday.\nThese include:\nThe university playground was commissioned in 1998 and outdoor facilities for following sports are available here.\nThe department of physical education provides sports equipment to students for games organized by the university and for training sessions free of charge.University of Ruhuna a participator of Sri Lanka University Games.The Sri Lanka University Games are a multi-sporting event held between public universities in Sri Lanka.\n\nEach year 10 needy students from Civil and Environmental Engineering program are entitled to a special scholarship sponsored by Ceylon Steel Corporation\n\n"}
{"id": "39290509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39290509", "title": "Venezuelan labour law", "text": "Venezuelan labour law\n\nVenezuelan labour law is covered by the \"Ley Orgánica del Trabajo, los Trabajadores y las Trabajadoras\" (2012), and underpinned by parts of the Constitution of Venezuela which cover labour rights.\n\nThe first Venezuelan labour law, the \"Ley del Trabajo\", was enacted on 23 July 1928, and the second on 16 July 1936. This second \"Ley del Trabajo\" was amended repeatedly (1945, 1947, 1966, 1974, 1975 and 1983) before being replaced in 1991 by the \"Ley Orgánica del Trabajo\" of 1 May 1991. This was reformed on 19 June 1997.\n\nIn 1999 the new Constitution of Venezuela covered labour rights (e.g. Article 92). In May 2012 a long-discussed reform was enacted, as the \"Ley Orgánica del Trabajo, los Trabajadores y las Trabajadoras\"; this came into effect on 7 May 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "32753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32753", "title": "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations", "text": "Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations\n\nThe Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 is an international treaty that defines a framework for diplomatic relations between independent countries. It specifies the privileges of a diplomatic mission that enable diplomats to perform their function without fear of coercion or harassment by the host country. This forms the legal basis for diplomatic immunity. Its articles are considered a cornerstone of modern international relations. As of October 2018, it has been ratified by 192 states.\n\nThroughout the history of sovereign states, diplomats have enjoyed a special status. Their function to negotiate agreements between states demands certain special privileges. An envoy from another nation is traditionally treated as a guest, their communications with their home nation treated as confidential, and their freedom from coercion and subjugation by the host nation treated as essential.\n\nThe first attempt to codify diplomatic immunity into diplomatic law occurred with the Congress of Vienna in 1815. This was followed much later by the Convention regarding Diplomatic Officers (Havana, 1928).\n\nThe present treaty on the treatment of diplomats was the outcome of a draft by the International Law Commission. The treaty was adopted on 18 April 1961, by the United Nations Conference on Diplomatic Intercourse and Immunities held in Vienna, Austria, and first implemented on 24 April 1964. The same Conference also adopted the Optional Protocol concerning Acquisition of Nationality, the Optional Protocol concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes, the Final Act and four resolutions annexed to that Act.\n\nTwo years later, the United Nations adopted a closely related treaty, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.\n\nThe treaty is an extensive document, containing 53 articles. The following is a basic overview of its key provisions.\n\nIn the same year that the treaty was adopted, two amendment protocols were added. Countries may ratify the main treaty without necessarily ratifying these optional agreements.\n\n\nAs of October 2018, there are 192 state parties to the convention including all UN member states except Palau, the Solomon Islands, and South Sudan. Included as state parties are the Holy See and State of Palestine, two UN observer states. The Republic of China signed and ratified the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations on 18 April 1961 and 19 December 1969 respectively prior to the UN granting China's seat to The People's Republic of China. There are no states that have signed the treaty but have not ratified it.\n\n\n2.Acta Universitatis Danubius. Relationes Internationales, Vol 9, No 1 (2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "23566736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23566736", "title": "Walz v. Tax Commission of the City of New York", "text": "Walz v. Tax Commission of the City of New York\n\nWalz v. Tax Commission of the City of New York, 397 U.S. 664 (1970), was a case before the United States Supreme Court. The Court held that grants of tax exemption to religious organizations do not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nNew York law granted property tax exemptions to religious organizations for religious properties used solely for religious worship.\n\nThe plaintiff, Frederick Walz, an owner of real estate in Staten Island, New York, brought suit in the New York Supreme Court, Special Term, seeking to enjoin the New York City Tax Commission from granting these exemptions. The plaintiff contended that the exemptions indirectly required him to make a contribution to religious bodies and thereby violated the religion clauses of the First Amendment.\n\nRejecting this contention, the New York Supreme Court granted the defendant's motion for summary judgment and dismissed the complaint. The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court affirmed, in an opinion by Chief Justice Warren Burger, expressing the views of five members of the court.\n\nThe Court held that there was no nexus between these tax exemptions and the establishment of religion, and that federal or state grants of tax exemption to churches did not violate the First Amendment:\n\nJustices Brennan and Harlan, each in a separate opinion, while concurring in the court's conclusion that the tax exemptions did not violate the First Amendment, would reach this conclusion by applying different criteria from those applied by the court.\n\nJustice Douglas would have held that the tax exemptions for religious organizations violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\n"}
{"id": "21909456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21909456", "title": "World Day Against Cyber Censorship", "text": "World Day Against Cyber Censorship\n\nWorld Day Against Cyber Censorship is an online event held each year on March 12 to rally support for a single, unrestricted Internet that is accessible to all and to draw attention to the ways that governments around the world are deterring and censoring free speech online. The day was first observed on 12 March 2008 at the request of Reporters Without Borders and Amnesty International. A letter written by Jean-François Julliard, Secretary-General of Reporters Without Borders, and Larry Cox, Executive Director of Amnesty International, was sent to the Chief Executive Officers of Google, Yahoo!, Inc., and Microsoft Corporation to request observation of the day.\nThe annual event is symbolized by a logo created by Reporters Without Borders consisting of a computer mouse breaking free from a chain.\n\nOn World Day Against Cyber Censorship, Reporters Without Borders awards an annual \"Netizen Prize\" that recognizes an Internet user, blogger, cyber-dissident, or group who has made a notable contribution to the defense of online freedom of expression. Starting in 2010 the prize has been awarded to:\n\n\nIn conjunction with World Day Against Cyber Censorship, Reporters Without Borders updates its \"Enemies of the Internet\" and \"Countries Under Surveillance\" lists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4566413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4566413", "title": "Zivildienst", "text": "Zivildienst\n\nZivildienst (German, translated verbatim to \"Civilian Service\", although \"compulsory community service\" is more contextually equivalent). However the official translation in German is \"alternative civilian service\" as the civilian branch of the national service systems in Austria and Switzerland. In Germany \"Zivildienst\" was the alternative service to military service until suspension of conscription in 2011 as well. It is a means for conscripted persons who are conscientious objectors to fulfill their national service, typically in the fields of social work (e.g. hospitals, retirement homes, emergency medical services) and, although rarely, environmental protection, agriculture, and public administration. As such, it is exempt from the general ban of forced labor by the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe \"Zivildienst\" in Austria is provided as an alternative for conscientious objectors to the draft for military service. It is served for nine months, three months longer than the military service. Participants can choose one of several organisations (mainly NGOs) at which to serve. Most popular choices for compulsory service personnel are working for the ambulance services (usually transporting non-emergency patients to and from hospital) and nursing homes. Other options include serving at hospitals, charity organizations or in several ministries.\n\nUntil 1975, there was no alternative to the compulsory military service in Austria. In order to discourage people from substituting compulsory community service for military service, the Austrian People's Party introduced a committee which met with every man who wanted to do compulsory community service. The only accepted reason for avoiding military service was pacifism, and one had to thoroughly and rationally explain their pacifism. Immaturity or naïveté could be reasons for declining the application and potential candidates' criminal records had to be impeccable. Candidates completing the civilian service were then barred entry to the police force, as this would contradict one's claims of being a pacifist. The committee was disbanded in 1991. From 1991, \"Zivildienst\" personnel were prohibited from owning any weapon for 20 years after completing their service – though this ban does not extend to individuals barred from military service on medical or psychological reasons, though in the latter case, other laws may apply and a ban may be imposed.\n\n\"Zivildienst\" was the most common alternative to conscription in the German armed forces, the \"Bundeswehr\" before conscription was suspended for peacetime in 2011. Drafted persons had to file a petition along with an essay describing the reasons, in order to become recognized as an objector. The \"recognized objector\" (\"anerkannter Kriegsdienstverweigerer\") could then either negotiate for an accredited service institution himself, or be assigned an institution.\n\nSince its creation on October 10, 1973 the \"Federal Office for Alternative Civilian Service\" (in German: Bundesamt für den Zivildienst / BAZ) was responsible for the petitions, the recognized objectors, and the accreditation of the institutions (and more) by law (mainly \"Zivildienstgesetz\" (ZDG)). In 2011 it was renamed in \"Federal Office for Family and Civil Society Duties\" (in German: Bundesamt für Familie und zivilgesellschaftliche Aufgaben / BAFzA) and is now responsible for the Federal Volunteer Service (in German: \"Bundesfreiwilligendienst\" / BFD), a voluntary social service established after the suspension of conscription in 2011.\n\nCurrently, the German \"Zivildienst\" is suspended, same as the \"Wehrdienst\" (military service).\n\n\n"}
