{"id": "9719197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9719197", "title": "Alec Yasinsac", "text": "Alec Yasinsac\n\nAlec Yasinsac is the Dean of the School of Computing, University of South Alabama, United States.\n\nA retired U.S. Marine, Yasinsac was awarded his doctoral degree in 1996 from the University of Virginia, where his doctoral advisor was William Wulf. He received the Master of Science in Computer Science from the Naval Postgraduate School and Bachelor of Science in Mathematics from Appalachian State University.\n\nYasinsac is the co-founder and co-director of the Security and Assurance in Information Security (SAIT) Laboratory. He was a visiting scholar at the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) in 2006, served on the advisory board for the NAE 2007 National Meeting Symposium on Electronic Voting, and led the team that conducted the source code review in support of the Florida Department of State audit of Florida's 13th congressional district 2006 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "10516432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10516432", "title": "Arnaut", "text": "Arnaut\n\nArnaut (ارناود) is a Turkish ethnonym used to denote Albanians. \"Arvanid\" (اروانيد), \"Arnavud\" (آرناوود), plural: \"Arnavudlar\" (آرناوودلار): modern Turkish: Arnavut, plural: \"Arnavutlar\"; are ethnoyms used mainly by Ottoman and contemporary Turks for Albanians with \"Arnavutça\" being called the Albanian language.\n\nThese ethnonyms are derived from the Greek term \"Arvanites\" and entered Turkish after the syllable cluster \"van\" was rearranged through metathesis to \"nav\" giving the final Turkish forms as \"Arnavut\" and \"Arnaut\". Meanwhile, in Greek language the name \"Arvanitis\" was derived from the original name \"Alvanitis\" [Άλβανίτης] (in return derived from \"Alvanos\" [Άλβάνος]). The Ottoman Turks borrowed their name for Albanians after hearing it from the Byzantine Greeks.\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries due to socio-political disturbances by some Albanians in the Balkans the term was used as an ethnic marker for Albanians in addition to the usual millet religious terminology to identify people in Ottoman state records. While the term used in Ottoman sources for the country was \"Arnavudluk\" (آرناوودلق) for areas such as Albania, Western Macedonia, Southern Serbia, Kosovo, parts of northern Greece and southern Montenegro. In modern Turkish \"Arnavutluk\" refers only to the Republic of Albania. Historically as an exonym the Turkish term \"Arnaut\" has also been used for instance by some Western Europeans as a synonym for Albanians that were employed as soldiers in the Ottoman army. The term \"Arnā'ūṭ\" (الأرناؤوط) also entered the Arabic language as an exonym for Albanian communities that settled in the Levant during the Ottoman era onward, especially for those residing in Syria. The term \"Arnaut\" (Арнаут), plural: \"Arnauti\" (Арнаути) has also been borrowed into Balkan South Slavic languages like Bulgarian and within Serbian the term has also acquired pejorative connotations regarding Albanians.\n\nDuring the Ottoman era, the name was used for ethnic Albanians regardless of their religious affiliations, just like it is today.\n\nIn Ukraine, Albanians who lived in Budzhak and who later also settled in the Azov Littoral of Zaporizhia Oblast are also known as \"Arnaut\". The city of Odessa has two streets: \"Great Arnaut Street\" and \"Little Arnaut Street\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2247772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247772", "title": "Baron Alexander von Bach", "text": "Baron Alexander von Bach\n\nBaron Alexander von Bach (German: \"Alexander Freiherr von Bach\"; 4 January 1813, Loosdorf, Austria - 12 November 1893, Schöngrabern, Austria) was an Austrian politician. His most notable achievement was instituting a system of centralized control at the beginning of the reign of Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria.\n\nBorn in Loosdorf, Lower Austria, he came from a legal background, with his father holding a judicial office. At the age of 24 he was made a doctor of laws, and then entered the Imperial service, where he remained for nine years. Seen as an up-and-coming, young radical, Adolph Schwarzenberg noted that 'his motto must have been \"to improvise is to change, to be perfect is to change often\"'. In this way, he was a well-known liberal lawyer, and was first called a \"minister of barricades\", before he served as Minister of Justice in 1848 and 1849, and then moving on to Minister of the Interior from 1849 to 1859.\n\nAlthough he favored a departure from the absolute system of Metternich, Bach was not prepared to go so far as the Revolutionaries of 1848 wished. In his views, he has been called a man who was 'quite wonderfully unprincipled' and so could change his position often. This allowed him to be driven into conservative ranks by popular opposition: he gradually adhered to conservative views, endorsing the centralizing constitutional program of Prince Schwarzenberg in March 1849, thus further inflaming Hungarian sentiments. However, the impact of his reforms on Hungary has been the contest of many historical debates. Some viewed the Revolution as far more productive in recreating the Hungarian \"national identity\", whereas some contemporaries of later Hungarian revolutions saw the systems created by Bach as the foremost driver in Hungarian nationalism.\n\nAfter the death of Schwarzenberg in 1852, he largely dictated policy in Austria and Hungary. Bach centralized administrative authority for the Austrian Empire, but he also endorsed reactionary policies that reduced freedom of the press and abandoned public trials. He represented later the Absolutist (or \"Klerikalabsolutist\") direction, which culminated in the concordat of August 1855 that gave the Roman Catholic Church control over education and family life. This period in the history of the Austrian Empire would become known as the era of \"neo-absolutism\", or Bach's absolutism.\n\nBach was created Baron (\"Freiherr\") in 1854. He was also the guardian of Science Academy (\"Akademie der Wissenschaften\") in 1849–59.\n\nHis fall in 1859 was highly caused by the failure in the Italian war against the Kingdom of Sardinia and Napoleon III. His reforms of the military had led to industrialization being foregone to the army, with barracks taking place of factories and infrastructural expansion, weakening. After leaving his position, Bach served as Ambassador to the Holy See in 1859-1867 before dying in seclusion in 1893.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8555516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8555516", "title": "Bertram Stevens (critic)", "text": "Bertram Stevens (critic)\n\nBertram William Mathyson Francis Stevens (8 October 1872 – 14 February 1922) was Australian journal editor (\"Single Tax\"; \"Native Companion\"; \"Art in Australia\"; \"Lone Hand\"); literary and art critic; and anthologist (\"An Anthology of Australian Verse\" [which contained five poems by Henry Lawson]; \"The Golden Treasury of Australian Verse\").\n\nStevens was born at Inverell, New South Wales, the eldest child of William Mathison Stevens and his wife Marian, \"née\" Cafe, from Queanbeyan. By 1882 Stevens moved with his family to Newtown, Sydney where he was educated at public schools. Stevens was an avid reader and developed a wide knowledge and culture. In 1895 he began a fifteen-year period as a solicitor's clerk and it was intended that he should study law. During this time Stevens worked as a freelance journalist, coming into contact with a number of literary figures, he edited \"My Sundowner and other Poems\" (1904) by John Farrell with a memoir. Stevens prepared \"An Anthology of Australian Verse\" (1906), in which he was hampered by copyright restrictions, but he had a much freer hand in \"The Golden Treasury of Australian Verse\" (1909), the first anthology of Australasian verse of any importance. In the same year he had the difficult task of succeeding Alfred Stephens as editor of the 'Red Page' of \"The Bulletin\". David Scott Mitchell gave him access to his library of Australiana.\n\nAt the end of 1911 Stevens became editor of the Lone Hand and conducted this journal for seven years. In 1916 Stevens was one of the founders and joint-editor (with Sydney Ure Smith) of \"Art in Australia\" until his death. He also did literary criticism for \"The Sydney Mail\" and other journals, published editions of Australian poets, prepared other anthologies, and edited books on leading Australian artists. Much of his literary work is listed in Serle's \"Bibliography of Australasian Poetry and Verse\" and Miller's \"Australian Literature\". \n\nStevens campaigned for the land policies of Henry George, temporarily winning Henry Lawson to the cause. He was a founding member of the Dawn and Dusk Club in 1899 and of the Casuals Club in 1906. Stevens was deeply involved with attempts at rehabilitating Henry Lawson at Yanco, New South Wales and Edwin Brady's property at Mallacoota, Victoria.\n\nStevens died suddenly of cerebral haemorrhage and chronic nephritis at Sydney, on 14 February 1922. He left a widow, two sons and a daughter. Henry Lawson wrote a warm confessional tribute in \"The Bulletin\". At the time of his death he was vice-president of the New South Wales Institute of Journalists. He had been preparing \"A History of Australian Literature\" for some years before his death, but this was never published. Many of his papers are at the Mitchell library, Sydney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "992332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=992332", "title": "Bob Larson", "text": "Bob Larson\n\nBob Larson (born May 28, 1944) is an American radio and television evangelist, and a pastor of Spiritual Freedom Church in Phoenix, Arizona. Larson has authored numerous books critical of rock music and Satanism.\n\nLarson was born in Westwood, Los Angeles, California, the son of Viola (née Baum) and Earl Larson. He was raised in McCook, Nebraska.\n\nLarson plays guitar; he has claimed his early experiences as a musician led to his concerns about occult and destructive influences in rock music. He would later incorporate his guitar playing into some of his sermons. In the 1960s, the focus of Larson's preaching centered mainly on the leftist political ideology, sexually suggestive lyrics, Eastern religious mysticism, and antisocial behavior of many of the era's rock musicians.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and into the 1990s, Bob Larson repeatedly debated, interviewed, and confronted Satanists, during the period known as the Satanic panic. On two separate occasions he hosted Nikolas Schreck (a gothic rock musician) and Zeena LaVey (once the spokesperson for the Church of Satan and later a priestess in the Temple of Set). During their first encounter the pair defended Satanism, while in 1997, during their second appearance, they defended Setianism. Larson debated the pair, and at times attempted to convert them without success.\n\nIn 1982, Larson launched \"\"Talk Back\",\" a two-hour weekday call-in show geared mainly toward teenagers and frequently focused on teen-oriented topics such as role-playing games and rock music. By this time Larson had come to embrace contemporary Christian music, including styles such as heavy metal and rap, and actively promoted the music and artists on his show.\n\nBy the late 1980s, in what would come to define his later ministry, Larson was often heard performing exorcisms of callers on the air. The subjects of Satanism and Satanic ritual abuse were frequent topics of discussion. Death metal performer Glen Benton of Deicide became a regular caller.\n\nLarson tried his hand at writing fiction: \"Dead Air\" (1991) was largely ghost-written by Lori Boespflug and Muriel Olson. His later novels \"Abaddon\" (1993) and \"The Senator's Agenda\" both linked Satanic ritual abuse to political corruption; the latter was largely written by Larson and his second wife. However, a former vice president of BLM (Bob Larson Ministries), Lori Boespflug, claimed that much of \"Dead Air\", though presented as Larson's work, is actually her own. Supporting these claims is a letter from Larson's lawyer that warns Larson of his \"potential liability to Lori\", anticipating that \"the role Lori has played\" would lead her to \"demand recognition and/or profit participation\" in respect to \"Dead Air\" and its sequels.\n\nIn 2004, Larson returned to the radio airwaves after a two-year absence with a daily talk show heard on a network of radio stations and simulcast and archived on the Internet.\n\nToday, Larson remains active. His ministry professes to offer an alternative counseling outlet to people who have problems with violence, self-mutilation, multiple personality disorders, Satanic ritual abuse, or molestation.\n\nIn 2013 Vice magazine taped a video of Larson's visit in several small towns in Ukraine where he performed exorcisms together with three young women - his 18-year-old daughter Brynne Larson and her friends Tess and Savannah Sherkenback (18 and 21 respectively, collectively known as The Teenage Exorcists). The Teenage Exorcists consequently published a reply to Vice Media's video stating that they \"question the journalistic integrity of this Vice Media story and are disappointed by how we were falsely portrayed.\"\n\nLarson also offers to perform exorcisms over Skype (for a donation of $295). His Skype exorcisms were featured in a segment on the satirical program \"The Daily Show\" in 2014, in which he told correspondent Jessica Williams, “Skype is a great technology to stare down the Devil, to go after him and to kick him back to hell.” Later in the same segment, however, he indicated that \"tweeting an exorcism would be ridiculous.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6994068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6994068", "title": "Brandon Morrow", "text": "Brandon Morrow\n\nBrandon John Morrow (born July 26, 1984) is an American professional baseball relief pitcher for the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball (MLB). He previously played for the Seattle Mariners, Toronto Blue Jays, San Diego Padres, and Los Angeles Dodgers. On August 8, 2010, Morrow pitched a complete game one-hitter with 17 strikeouts, coming within one out of a no-hitter. In the 2017 World Series, he became just the second pitcher ever to appear in all seven games of the series.\n\nMorrow attended Rancho Cotate High School in Rohnert Park, California. As a senior, he was 9-2 with a 0.61 ERA and had 84 strikeouts in 63 innings. He earned first-team all-league, first-team All-Redwood Empire, first-team All-North Coast Section and second-team all-state honors, and competed for the California All-Stars at the 2002 Sunbelt Classic in McAlester, Oklahoma.\n\nHe was selected by the Anaheim Angels in the 40th round, 1200th overall, in the 2003 Major League Baseball Draft. However, he did not sign with the Angels and decided to attend college at UC Berkeley. He majored in American studies.\n\nHe attended the University of California. He appeared in 19 games for the Golden Bears with five starts in his freshman year, going 1-3 with a 6.07 ERA and 18 strikeouts in 30 innings. He picked up the win in relief versus the University of California Los Angeles on April 25 going one inning, surrendering one hit, and striking out two. Morrow had three strikeouts in two innings against Brigham Young University on January 30.\n\nAs a sophomore Morrow made ten appearances with five starts, going 0-1 with a 9.36 ERA and one save. He had 25 strikeouts in 25 innings. He earned his lone save on March 19 against the University of Hawaii at Hilo with three strikeouts in two innings. He threw a career-high five innings with a career-high six strikeouts against Loyola Marymount University on February 13.\n\nMorrow was named first-team All-Pac-10 his junior year, going 7-4 with a 2.05 ERA, second in Pac-10. He had 97 strikeouts, fourth in Pac-10. He held opponents to a .211 average good enough for third in Pac-10. Morrow was named National Pitcher of the Week after pitching seven innings, no hits, no runs, one walk and a career-high 12 strikeouts against University of California, Irvine.\n\nHe was a Cape Cod League All-Star in the summer for the Yarmouth-Dennis Red Sox, striking out 24 batters in 15 innings with a 1.84 ERA and three saves. He was named a third-team preseason All-American and the fifth-best professional prospect out of the Cape Cod League by Baseball America.\n\nIn his first professional season in he split time between Arizona League Mariners appearing in seven games and Single-A Inland Empire 66ers appearing in one game of the California League. He posted an 0-2 record overall with a 2.25 ERA in 16 innings striking out 17 batters and starting five games. He pitched three hitless innings for Inland Empire during his brief time there.\n\nMorrow was invited to spring training in . He went 0-1 with a 1.08 ERA in 6 relief appearances and made the major league club despite being considered a long-shot to make the club at the start of spring.\n\nMorrow made his Major League debut on April 3 against the Oakland Athletics, pitching one scoreless inning.\n\nMorrow went 3-4, with a 4.12 ERA in 60 appearances striking out 66 batters and walking 50. He held opposing hitters to a .243 batting average, including .221 against right-handed batters. He set a club rookie record with 18 holds, breaking old record of 13 set by Ed Vande Berg in . Morrow had the fourth most appearances by a rookie reliever in club history with 60 and fifth most strikeouts with 66. Among American League rookie relievers Morrow ranked second in strikeouts, third in appearances and fourth in ERA.\n\nOn April 23, he earned his first major league win against the Texas Rangers, allowing one hit in career-high three and one third innings pitched. He recorded 18 and two thirds consecutive scoreless innings from April 20 to June 8. During the streak he went 2-0 while holding opposing batters to a .103 average. He also recorded another scoreless streak of 17 innings pitched over 15 outings from July 17 to August 24. Morrow held opponents scoreless in 44 of 60 outings.\n\nAfter missing two weeks of spring training in 2008 due to a sore shoulder, Morrow was optioned to the Mariners minor league affiliate Double-A West Tennessee on March 30. Morrow was recalled to the Seattle bullpen 17 days afterwards when Mariners starter Érik Bédard was placed on the 15-day disabled list. When Seattle's regular closer J. J. Putz became injured on June 12, Morrow took over his duties. Including a closing appearance on June 11, Morrow saved 8 games in 8 tries, before a July 10 opportunity when he gave up two solo home runs to the Oakland Athletics to acquire his first blown save. He had only given up 2 runs all year prior to that, and had 40 strikeouts in 36.2 innings pitched, and a very low ERA of 1.76 and WHIP of 0.88.\n\nOn August 5, Morrow was optioned to Triple-A to become a starting pitcher.\n\nMorrow made his first MLB start on September 5, against the New York Yankees. Morrow went 7 no-hit innings in his first major league start and was 4 outs away to being just the second player to throw a no hitter in their MLB starting debut only to see pinch hitter Wilson Betemit end his bid. The Mariners went on to win the game 3-1 giving Morrow his first win as a starter.\n\nOn March 29, the Mariners announced that Morrow would no longer be used as a starting pitcher; instead, he would move into a relief role with the organization. Morrow, who has Type 1 diabetes, acknowledged that his diabetes was a factor in the decision, saying that it was easier to balance his blood sugar in a relief position.\n\nMorrow began the season as the closer and earned five saves through the end of April. However, he was placed on the disabled list on May 2 after he developed right biceps tendinitis. David Aardsma served as closer in his absence.\n\nAfter coming off the disabled list Morrow returned to the starting rotation, making six starts before being optioned to the Triple-A Tacoma Rainiers to develop back into a more rounded starting pitcher.\n\nOn August 14, Morrow pitched a four hit shutout against the Iowa Cubs. During that game Morrow struck out two, walked one and threw 59 of 96 pitches for strikes. Morrow retired 10 straight batters early in the game.\n\nMorrow won his fifth consecutive decision for Tacoma tossing five scoreless innings to lead the Rainiers to a 4-1 win over the Portland Beavers on August 29. Morrow was removed from the game because of stiffness in his arm.\n\nOn September 9, Morrow was called up to the Mariners. He was to start at least one game, so manager Don Wakamatsu could assess Morrow's progress. On September 30, Morrow gave up one hit and walked two hitters in 8 shutout innings against the Oakland Athletics. The Mariners won the game 7-0.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, the Mariners traded Morrow to the Toronto Blue Jays for pitcher Brandon League and minor league outfielder Johermyn Chávez.\n\nMorrow's first season in Toronto was the first of his major league career as a full-time member of a starting rotation. Toronto's coaching staff altered Morrow's delivery in a similar fashion to the way Roy Halladay's delivery was altered during his first years with the Blue Jays. The switch from an over-the-top arm motion to a lower-angle arm slot was believed to have contributed to an increased command of his pitches. He was also encouraged to reduce his pitch velocity and try to induce weak contact, again much in the same way Halladay was taught during his tenure in Toronto. Despite some struggles with inconsistency during the early stages of the alterations, statistics show that his production stabilized as the season progressed and he managed to produce favorable results on a regular basis before the end of the season, including a stellar 17 strikeout, one hit performance that was a candidate for MLB.com's This Year in Baseball Performance of the Year.\nOn August 8, Morrow was one out away from a no-hitter against the Tampa Bay Rays when Evan Longoria hit an infield single. It would have been the first no-hitter by a Blue Jay since Dave Stieb's no-hitter on September 2, 1990. He finished the one-hitter for his first complete game while compiling 17 strikeouts, a career high for Morrow in a game and one strikeout shy of the team record 18 strikeouts set by Roger Clemens in 1998. According to the Game Score metric devised by sabremetrician Bill James, this tied for the fourth-highest rated pitching performance since 1920, with a game score of 100.\n\nOn August 29, the Blue Jays announced that after his next start, Morrow would be shut down for the season to protect his arm. He pitched more innings in 2010 (146⅓) than in any of his previous seasons. He finished the season with a 10–7 record, 4.49 ERA, and 178 strikeouts. Morrow was nominated as one of 2010's \"Ten People Making a Difference in Diabetes\".\n\nMorrow, who was expected to be the Jays' No. 2 starter in the pitching rotation, began the season on the 15-day disabled list with right forearm inflammation. He made his regular-season debut on April 23 against the Tampa Bay Rays, pitching 5⅓ innings, giving up 3 hits, 2 runs, 2 walks and 10 strikeouts.\n\nFor the first time since being traded, Morrow returned to the home stadium of his former team, the Seattle Mariners, to start against them on August 17. Morrow recorded the win, pitching 6 innings and striking out 12 batters.\n\nMorrow became the first pitcher in major league history to pitch 100 innings in one season without the team recording a double play behind him. On September 23, after 173⅓ innings dating back to August 28, 2010, Desmond Jennings of the Tampa Bay Rays grounded into Morrow's first double play in 30 starts. It would end up being Morrow's only double play induced in the season, but also the only double play Jennings would ground into all season. Morrow finished the season with an 11–11 record, 4.79 ERA, and 203 strikeouts. He led the league in strikeouts over 9 innings with 10.2.\n\nOn May 3, in a game against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Morrow threw a three-hit complete game shutout. The following night, teammate Henderson Álvarez also threw a complete game shutout. Morrow and Álvarez thus became the first Blue Jays starters to throw back-to-back shutouts since Jack Morris and Al Leiter did so on June 16 and 17, 1993. Morrow established a career high in complete games and shutouts (with 2 each) on May 19, throwing a three-hit shutout against the New York Mets. He improved that mark on June 6 against the Chicago White Sox, throwing a complete game two-hit shutout. His third shutout of the season gave him the league lead at the time.\n\nMorrow experienced \"stabbing pain\" during the first inning of his June 11 start while pitching to Bryce Harper, the second hitter in the Washington Nationals lineup. After delivering three pitches to Harper, Morrow left the game with a strain of the left oblique muscles. No timetable was given for Morrow's return to the rotation. Morrow returned from the 60-day disabled list on August 25. In 124⅔ innings, he finished the season with a 10–7 record, 2.96 ERA, and 103 strikeouts.\n\nOn February 5, 2013, manager John Gibbons named Morrow the number 2 starter for the upcoming season, behind reigning NL Cy Young Award winner R.A. Dickey. After opening the season with a 2–3 record and a 5.63 earned run average, Morrow was placed on the 15-day disabled list on June 1 with a right forearm strain. He made his first rehab start at High-A Dunedin on June 17, and pitched just 2 innings. On June 18, it was announced that Morrow had been pulled from rehabilitation after suffering an unnamed setback during his start. An MRI that day revealed only inflammation, and no structural damage in Morrow's arm.\n\nOn July 24, it was reported by Rogers Sportsnet that Morrow was diagnosed with an entrapped radial nerve in his right forearm, and would likely miss the rest of the 2013 season. Blue Jays management said the following day that they expected Morrow to pitch again in 2013, either in late September or in October's instructional league in Florida. Manager John Gibbons later said on August 22 that Morrow would remain on the disabled list for the rest of the season. In 2013, Morrow posted a record of 2–3, a 5.63 earned run average, and 41 strikeouts over just 54 innings pitched.\n\nMorrow struggled throughout early spring training, giving up 7 earned runs through just 8 innings pitched. On March 18, manager John Gibbons confirmed that Morrow would be the team's fifth starter, citing a need to give him more time to prepare for the regular season. After struggling to open the season, including a start on April 26 where he walked 8 Red Sox batters over 2 innings, Morrow was placed on the 15-day disabled list on May 3 with a sprained right index finger. Later that day his injury was determined to be a more severe torn tendon sheath in his right hand, and he was transferred to the 60-day DL. Morrow made his first rehab appearance on August 27 with the Dunedin Blue Jays, pitching one scoreless inning. He was activated from the 60-day DL and added to the Blue Jays active roster on September 1, 2014. On November 1, the Blue Jays declined Morrow's $10 million 2015 option, making him a free agent.\n\nOn December 16, 2014, Morrow signed a 1-year, $2.5 million contract with the San Diego Padres. He made 5 starts with the Padres in 2015, posting a 2.73 ERA and 23 strikeouts, before going on the disabled list with right shoulder inflammation in early May. He remained on the disabled list into August, when it was determined that he required season-ending surgery to correct a shoulder impingement. On December 17, Morrow signed a minor league contract with the Padres that included an invitation to spring training.\n\nOn January 25, 2017, Morrow signed a minor-league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers that included an invitation to major league spring training. He did not make the major league team and was assigned to the Triple-A Oklahoma City Dodgers to begin the season. Morrow was called up by the Dodgers on May 29, due to a clause in his contract that would have forced the Dodgers to waive him if he wasn't called up. By the end of the season, Morrow had settled into a role as the Dodgers' setup man. In 45 appearances out of the Dodgers bullpen, he was 6–0 with a 2.06 ERA with 50 strikeouts and two saves.\n\nMorrow allowed one run in 3 innings in the 2017 NLDS, zero runs in 4 innings in the 2017 NLCS and five runs in 5 innings in the 2017 World Series. He was only the second person in history to pitch in all seven games of the World Series.\n\nOn December 12, 2017, Morrow signed a two-year, $21-million contract with the Chicago Cubs.\n\nOn June 20, 2018, Morrow was placed on the 10-day disabled list due to back tightness.\n\nMorrow throws a hard fastball which sits between 92 and 100 mph. He has the ability to throw several off-speed pitches, including a slider (85–89 mph), curveball (81–85 mph), and change-up (81–87 mph). In September 2011, Morrow debuted a new cut fastball which comes from making a slight adjustment on his slider, with velocity hovering around 88–91 mph.\n\nMorrow is 6'3\" tall and weighs 195 pounds. He is married. His favorite pitcher growing up was Pedro Martínez.\n\nMorrow has Type 1 diabetes who was diagnosed as a senior in high school. He wears an insulin pump to regulate his blood sugar levels.\n"}
{"id": "2476808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2476808", "title": "Brian Grant", "text": "Brian Grant\n\nBrian Wade Grant (born March 5, 1972) is a retired American basketball player. He played the power forward and center positions for five teams during 12 seasons in the National Basketball Association. He was known for his tenacious rebounding and blue-collar defense. During his career, he played with the Sacramento Kings (where he made First Team All-Rookie in the 1994–95 season), Portland Trail Blazers, Miami Heat, Los Angeles Lakers and Phoenix Suns.\n\nGrant grew up in the small, rural community of Georgetown, Ohio, near the Ohio River about 40 miles southeast of Cincinnati. During summers, he spent most of his time working at area farms, cutting, housing, and stripping tobacco, digging potatoes and baling hay. He played basketball at Georgetown High School, mostly in anonymity until Xavier University's basketball office began receiving anonymous calls stating that they should take a look at Grant. Xavier assistant coach Dino Gaudio finally scouted Grant, followed by visits from XU head coach Pete Gillen. Georgetown High's gymnasium has since been renamed Brian Grant Gymnasium.\n\nGrant played basketball at Xavier University, but the anonymity quickly faded. After four seasons at Xavier, Grant was second on the all-time leading scorers' list with 1,719 points. He was twice named Midwest Collegiate Conference Player of the Year. All four seasons at Xavier he led the Musketeers in rebounding, and was third on the all-time leading rebounding list with 1,080. He was named to the Associated Press honorable mention All-American team in his junior year, after ranking second in the nation in field goal percentage with 65.4 percent.\n\nHe was inducted into the Xavier Athletic Hall of Fame in 1999 and became one of only four basketball players to have his jersey retired, in a ceremony held in 2011.\n\nGrant was selected in the first round, eighth overall, in the 1994 NBA draft by the Sacramento Kings. In his rookie season he started in 59 out of 80 games, averaging 13.2 points a game with 7.5 rebounds. The following year, he started in 75 out of 78 games, increasing his scoring average to 14.4 points a game as the Kings made the playoffs. The Kings lost in four games to the top-seeded Seattle SuperSonics in the first round, with Grant averaging 9.8 points per game for the series. He signed a five-year, $29 million contract, but due to injuries appeared in only 24 games in the 1996–1997 season, and the Kings did not make the playoffs.\n\nGrant opted out of the deal following the 1997 season to sign a six-year, $56 million deal with the Portland Trail Blazers. In his first year with the Trail Blazers he started in 49 of 61 games as the team made the playoffs but lost in the first round to the Los Angeles Lakers 3 games to 1. Grant averaged 13.2 points and 10.7 rebounds a game for the series. The 1998–1999 season was shortened to 50 games because of a league lockout, and Grant started 46 of 48 games with a scoring average of 11.5 points a game and a team high 9.8 rebounds per game. The Trail Blazers won the Pacific Division, swept the Phoenix Suns in the first round of the playoffs and defeated the previous Western Conference Champion Utah Jazz in six games in the second round. In the Western Conference Finals, the Trail Blazers were swept by the league-leading San Antonio Spurs. Grant started all 13 playoff games and averaged 13.2 points with 9.2 rebounds.\n\nPrior to the 1999–2000 season, Portland acquired veteran all-star Scottie Pippen, and coach Mike Dunleavy decided to use Grant as a reserve behind rising all-star Rasheed Wallace, who would go on to have a career year during the season as the Trail Blazers won 59 games and the second seed in the Western Conference. Portland opened the playoffs with a 3-1 first-round win over the Minnesota Timberwolves, with Grant and Wallace both being used as defensive options against Kevin Garnett. Grant was used in a similar fashion against Karl Malone and the Utah Jazz in the second round, with Portland advancing in five games. In the Western Conference Finals, the Trail Blazers faced the Los Angeles Lakers led by Pippen's former Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson and the duo of Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant. The teams split the first two games before the Lakers took games 3 and 4 to take a 3–1 series lead, but Portland responded with a win on the road in game 5 and a home win in the sixth game to set up a seventh game with a trip to the NBA Finals on the line. Despite taking a double-digit lead into the fourth quarter, the Lakers rallied and won the game, eliminating Portland. Grant averaged 5.4 points and 5.8 rebounds throughout the 2000 playoff run.\n\nAfter two years as the starting PF and one year as the Blazers' number one big man off the bench, Grant once again opted out of his deal to become a free agent, hoping to land a starting job elsewhere.\n\nIn the summer of 2000 Grant signed a 7-year $86 million deal with the Miami Heat, despite coming off season averages of 7.5 ppg and 5.5 rpg. The deal raised eyebrows, but Heat President and GM Pat Riley insisted that Grant was the missing piece to the Heat's championship puzzle, along with other recently acquired players Eddie Jones and Anthony Mason. Weeks before the start of the season Miami's all-star center Alonzo Mourning was diagnosed with a rare kidney disease forcing Riley to play Grant at center despite usually playing at the power forward position. Grant responded by putting up a career season of 15.2 ppg, 8.8 rpg, and a career high 79.7% at the foul line. Miami won 50 games, and Mourning returned to the team in late March, but were swept in the first round by the younger Charlotte Hornets. Grant averaged 10 points and 8 rebounds for the series.\n\nIn the 2001–2002 season, with the anticipated return of Mourning to the lineup, Grant returned to his natural power forward position. Grant started in 72 games for Miami averaging 9.3 points and 8 rebounds a game for the season, but the Heat failed to reach the postseason. The next year signaled a rebuilding era for the team, as the Heat won just 25 games with Grant averaging 10.3 points a game along with a career high 10.2 rebounds, which placed him at fifth in the league in rebounds per game. He also finished the season 4th in total rebounds, 5th in defensive rebounds, and 10th in the league in field goal percentage at .509 percent, all personal bests. The Heat once again found themselves in the lottery, and would select Dwyane Wade in the draft to join sophomore Caron Butler before acquiring free agent Lamar Odom in the offseason. Alonzo Mourning, who did not play in the 2003 season, left the team and signed with the New Jersey Nets, leaving Grant as the team's best option at the center position. Just prior to the 2003–2004 season, another major franchise change occurred, as Pat Riley stepped down as coach. He would be replaced by longtime assistant Stan Van Gundy.\n\nThe 2003–2004 season proved to be a major success for the rebuilding franchise, as the Heat overcame an 0-7 start to eventually make the playoffs as the 4th seed in the East led by the play of Odom, Jones and Wade. Grant started 76 games at center and averaged 8.7 points and 6.9 rebounds a game. In the playoffs, the Heat defeated the New Orleans Hornets, who had relocated from Charlotte, in a challenging 7 game series in which the home team won every game. In the second round the Heat faced the top seeded Indiana Pacers, who took the first two games in Indiana before the Heat won two straight games at home to tie the series at two games apiece, including a game three victory led by Grant`s 16 rebounds. The Pacers would win the next two games to advance however, defeating the young Heat team considered to have much promise heading into the future. Grant averaged 7.1 points and 8.6 rebounds a game throughout the postseason.\n\nDuring the summer of 2004, the Heat traded Grant (along with Caron Butler, Lamar Odom, and a future first-round draft pick) to the Los Angeles Lakers in exchange for superstar Shaquille O'Neal. Grant would play one year for the rebuilding Lakers, playing in a total of 69 games and starting in 8 with career low averages of 3.8 points and 3.7 rebounds a game. That off-season Grant was released and signed with the Phoenix Suns. He would go on to only appear in 21 games for the Suns, including 5 games in their playoff run which resulted in wins against the Lakers, and the Los Angeles Clippers before falling to the Dallas Mavericks in the Western Finals. Following the season Grant was traded in the 2006 NBA draft to the Boston Celtics with the rights to Rajon Rondo in exchange for a future first-round draft pick. After being waived by the Celtics on October 27, 2006, Grant formally announced his retirement after lingering injuries had reduced his level of play for several seasons.\n\nHe is nicknamed \"The General\" after growing up in the same town of Georgetown, Ohio, as Civil War Union general and President Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nBrian worked with Greg Oden in the 2009 off-season in Columbus, Ohio, for the purposes of adding more toughness, basketball smarts, and miscellaneous advice.\n\nGrant is the father of seven: sons Amani, Elijah, Jaydon, Jonavan, and Brian; and daughters Maliah and Anaya.\n\nBrian Grant is well known for his contributions to the communities in various cities. Grant served as the Oregon and Southwest Washington spokesperson for Ronald McDonald House Charities when he was with the Portland Trail Blazers. Grant and Ronald McDonald House Charities teamed up in July 1999 to hold \"Brian's Bash\" – a celebrity golf tournament in Portland – to raise money for seriously and terminally ill children.\n\nDuring his time as an NBA player, he started his own foundation in order to assist seriously ill children, as well as their families, and under-privileged youth. These numerous acts of selflessness and generosity were recognized by the NBA in 1999 when he was awarded the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award. A few of the programs that The Brian Grant Foundation has launched are the \"Scholastic Attendance Program\", the \"Christmas Adopt-A-Family Program\", the \"Thanksgiving Dinner Distribution Program\" with Pazzo's Restaurant, Mother's Against Gang Violence, the TLC Soup Kitchen, and the \"Brian Grant Free Summer Basketball Clinics\" in Portland, Oregon, and Georgetown, Ohio.\n\nAfter retiring from the NBA and moving his family back to his adopted hometown of Portland, Oregon, Grant was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease in November 2008. With new friends in Michael J. Fox and Muhammad Ali, who share the disease with Brian, he decided to recreate the Brian Grant Foundation; this time, with a new focus and mission. The new charity supports efforts toward the education and awareness of Parkinson's disease in order to increase earlier diagnosis, educate patients and their families, and provide a viable forum for people affected by the disease. The mission of the foundation is to help those impacted by Parkinson's to live active and fulfilling lives.The foundation hosts an annual fundraiser, Shake It Till We Make It, to raise money to provide support and resources for all those affected by Parkinson's disease. Shake It Till We Make It is a two-day celebrity gala and golf tournament hosted in Portland, Oregon.\n\nThe Brian Grant Foundation partners up with other foundations, such as the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research and the Muhammad Ali Parkinson Center, to support and fund research dedicated to finding a cure for Parkinson's disease and to finding improved therapies for people living with Parkinson's disease.\n\nIn November 2005, after talking with a neurologist at OHSU, Brian Grant was diagnosed with early-onset Parkinson's disease. Through discussions and encouragement by well-known Parkinson's sufferers Michael J. Fox and Muhammad Ali, Grant publicized his diagnosis in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "683317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683317", "title": "Buggane", "text": "Buggane\n\nIn Manx folklore, a (or \"boagane\") was a huge ogre-like creature native to the Isle of Man. Some have considered them akin to the Scandinavian troll.\n\nA shapeshifter, the buggane's natural form is described as \"covered with a mane of coarse, black hair; it had eyes like torches, and glittering sharp tusks\".\n\nThe most famous story recounts a buggane who found himself an inadvertent stowaway on a ship bound for Ireland. Determined to return to the Isle of Man, he caused a storm and guided the ship towards the rocky coast of Contrary Head. His plan was interdicted through the intervention of St. Trinian. Invoked by the captain with a promise to build a chapel in his honour, the saint guided the ship safely into Peel Harbour. Incensed, the buggane screamed, \"St. Trinian should never have a whole church in Ellan Vannin.\" When the chapel came to be built, three times the local people put a roof on, and three times the buggane tore it off.\n\nAs magical creatures, bugganes were unable to cross water or stand on hallowed ground.\n\nThe \"Buggan ny Hushtey\" lived in a large cave near the sea and was known for having no liking for lazy people. However, it should not be confused with the Cabyll-ushtey, the Manx water horse.\n\nBugganes were occasionally called upon by the fairies to punish people that had offended them. The buggane of Glen Maye would have pitched a lazy housewife into a waterfall for putting off baking until after sunset, had she not cut loose the strings of her apron to escape. The buggane from Gob-na-Scuit was known for tearing the thatch off the haystacks, puffing the smoke down chimneys, and pushing sheep over the edge of the brooghs (a steep bank or grassy cliff).\n\nIn Manx legend, the Irish giant Fionn mac Cumhaill (Finn MacCool) crossed over to Mann and settled near Cregneash. The buggane from Barrule came to do battle, but Finn did not want to fight. Fionn's wife, Oonagh, disguised Fionn as a baby and tucked him in a cradle. When the buggane saw the size of the 'baby', he thought that its father, Fionn, must be a giant among giants, and so he left. They eventually met near Kirk Christ Rushen and fought from sunrise to sunset. Fionn had one foot in the Big Sound, and so made the channel between the Calf of Man and Kitterland, and the other foot was in the Little Sound, and so he made the narrow channel between Kitterland and the main island. The buggane was standing at Port Erin. He came off victorious and slashed Fionn awfully, so that he had to run to Ireland. Fionn could walk on the sea, but the buggane could not, so he tore out a tooth and threw it at Fionn. It hit him on the back of the head, and then it fell into the sea and became what is now called Chicken Rock. Fionn turned round and roared a mighty curse, \"My seven swearings of a curse on it!\" \"Let it lie there for a vexation to the sons of men while water runs and grass grows!\"\nAnd so it has. The Irish version of the story has Finn's adversary a giant from Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37328055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37328055", "title": "Caravan to Lhasa", "text": "Caravan to Lhasa\n\nCaravan to Lhasa is a travel book and an account of the lives of expatriate Nepalese merchants in Lhasa from the 1920s to the 1960s. Written by Kamal Ratna Tuladhar, the book describes the caravan journey from Kathmandu across the Himalaya, and the life and times of the Newar traders in Tibet through the experiences of his merchant father Karuna Ratna Tuladhar (1920-2008) and uncles.\n\nKaruna Ratna spent 17 years in Lhasa, from 1935-1946 and 1949-1954. He was born in Kathmandu to a merchant family, and took over the ancestral shop in Lhasa after his father's death in 1935.\n\n\"Caravan to Lhasa\" is based on the centuries-old history of Kathmandu's Lhasa Newar merchants who lived for long periods at their business houses in Tibet and India, and operated a trading network linking South and Central Asia.\n\nThe book ends with the final return of the merchants after the Chinese takeover of Tibet and the flight of the Dalai Lama to India in 1959. The first edition appeared in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "6327846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327846", "title": "Casper de Vries", "text": "Casper de Vries\n\nCasper Johannes De Vries (; born 1 June 1964) is a South African actor, comedian, entertainer, painter, composer, director and producer. He has gained a significant following among South Africa's Afrikaner population as well as Afrikaners living abroad. More recently due to his work on Comedy Central Africa he has also gained popularity among English speaking South Africans. He has both South African and Dutch nationality. Besides Afrikaans, he is fluent in Dutch.\n\nHe was born and raised in Pretoria where his parents owned a toy shop. He attended Hoërskool Silverton where he was known as Cassie, and went on to study drama at the University of Stellenbosch. His shows are very popular amongst Afrikaans-speaking white South Africans and he even held shows in the London Palladium, a city where a lot of Afrikaners reside. Recently Casper has also started to perform in English to appeal to a larger fan base both local and international.\n\nCasper de Vries uses satire, blue, character, observational, sketch and word play comedy styles in his stage performances, and he is very outspoken on topics such as humanity, religion, social norms, language and politics.\n\nHis professional career started in 1986 with \"Hallo Suid-Afrika\" (\"Hello South Africa\"), and has been on-stage year after year until he started performing his one-man shows in 1997 where he started gaining major success.\nHere is a list of Casper's one man shows:\n\n\nDe Vries has characters that he portrays himself in his live shows and on TV:\n\n\nCasper's Live shows have been featured on South African television channels like SABC 2 and kykNET and more recently Comedy Central Africa since 1986.\n\nHe wrote, produced and starred in a 3-series comedy variety show, \"Die Casper Rasper Show\" (2001–2003) and a soapie-spoof \"Haak & Steek\" (2003/04). More recently he became the host of \"Doen met 'n Miljoen!\", the Afrikaans version of \"Deal or no Deal\". In the early 1990s he also hosted an America's Funniest Home Videos-style show called \"Devries\". \nIn 2009 he guest starred in South Africa's longest running soap, \"\".\n\nIn 2010 he appears as a guest artist in the Afrikaans improvisational TV-show Proesstraat and as judge on the popular Afrikaans reality show Supersterre alongside Shaleen Surtie-Richards and Theuns Jordaan.\n\nHe has appeared numerous times on Comedy Central Africa in the stand-up comedy show, Comedy Central Presents…Live at Parker’s, in 2013. Several of his stand-up, one-man comedy shows have also been featured on the channel including \"Mondig\", \"Broeders, Ancestors\" and \"Mondig deel 2\".\n\nOn 31 October 2013 during an exclusive interview with Herman Eloff on Channel24, Casper announced that he was going to retire from doing his one-man stand-up comedy shows, after his latest tour \"Casper Goes Khaki\" is over. \"Now I can concentrate on my painting and I can do movies and TV shows. I’ve done the one man show thing for 27 years now and it’s time to stop now,\" Casper told Channel24 during the interview.\n\nIn 2004 a radical right-wing activism Afrikaner group called the Boeremag was on trial for terror attacks in South Africa. During the trial plans to blow up De Vries together with eight other individuals was revealed. The group is quoted for saying that the reason for this plan was because De Vries \"was not on the right path\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57372577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57372577", "title": "Dean Snell", "text": "Dean Snell\n\nDean Snell is a plastics engineer and designer of many name brand golf balls, including Titleist Pro V1 and TaylorMade TP. He is the founder of Snell Golf, a company where he designs and sells namesake golf ball. He also had a brief career as a professional in the American Hockey League. \n\nSnell attended New Bedford High School before attending University of Massachusetts Lowell on a hockey scholarship. He graduated with a Bachelor's degree in Plastics Engineering. He later played Junior-A level amateur hockey and then for the Hershey Bears in the American Hockey League. \n\nPrior to his work in the golf industry, Snell spent time with BF Goodrich in its Aerospace and Defense Division where he worked on F-14 and F-15 fighter jets. He joined Titleist in the late 1980s and developed a number of patents for the company, including for the Pro V1. Snell worked for Titleist for seven years.\n\nSnell left Titleist in 1996 and went to work for TaylorMade where he was vice president of golf ball research and development. When he joined the company, it only had one golf ball patent and no one assigned to ball research and development. He was given freedom within the company which grew to approximately 60 research and developers by 2006. During his time there, he designed the TaylorMade TP golf ball which was used on the PGA Tour by players such as Sergio García and Justin Rose. He left the company in 2014.\n\nAfter leaving TaylorMade, Snell began designing his own golf ball line under his new company Snell Golf.\n\n"}
{"id": "38232360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38232360", "title": "Early life and career of Suharto", "text": "Early life and career of Suharto\n\nSuharto (8 June 1921 – 27 January 2008) was the second President of Indonesia, having held the office for 31 years from 1967 following Sukarno's removal until his resignation in 1998.\n\nSuharto was born in a small village, Kemusuk, in the Godean area near Yogyakarta, during the Dutch colonial era. He grew up in humble circumstances. His Javanese Muslim parents divorced not long after his birth, and he was passed between foster parents for much of his childhood. During the Japanese occupation of Indonesia, Suharto served in Japanese-organised Indonesian security forces. Indonesia's independence struggle saw him joining the newly formed Indonesian army. Suharto rose to the rank of major general following Indonesian independence.\n\nSuharto was born on 8 June 1921 during the Dutch East Indies era, in a plaited bamboo walled house in the hamlet of Kemusuk, a part of the larger village of Godean. The village is west of Yogyakarta, the cultural heartland of the Javanese. Born to ethnic Javanese parents of peasant class, he was the only child of his father's second marriage. His father, Kertosudiro had two children from his previous marriage, and was a village irrigation official. His mother Sukirah, a local woman, was distantly related to Sultan Hamengkubuwono V by his first concubine.\n\nFive weeks after Suharto's birth, his mother suffered a nervous breakdown and he was placed in the care of his paternal great-aunt, Kromodirjo. Kertosudiro and Sukirah divorced early in Suharto's life and both later remarried. At the age of three, Suharto was returned to his mother who had remarried a local farmer whom Suharto helped in the rice paddies. In 1929, Suharto's father took him to live with his sister who was married to an agricultural supervisor, Prawirowihardjo, in the town of Wuryantoro in a poor and low-yield farming area near Wonogiri. Over the following two years, he was taken back to his mother in Kemusuk by his stepfather and then back again to Wuryantoro by his father.\n\nPrawirowihardjo took to raising the boy as his own, which provided Suharto a father-figure and a stable home in Wuryantoro. In 1931, he moved to town of Wonogiri to attend the primary school (\"schakelschool\"), living first with Prawirohardjo's son Sulardi, and later with his father's relative Hardjowijono. While living with Hardjowijono, Suharto became acquinted with Darjatmo, a \"dukun\" (\"guru\") of Javanese mystical arts and faith healing. The experience deeply affected him and later, as president, Suharto surrounded himself with powerful symbolic language. Difficulties in paying the fees for his education in Wonogiri resulted in another move back with his father in Kemusuk, where he continued studying at a lower-fee Muhammadiyah middle school in the city of Yogyakarta until 1939.\n\nLike many Javanese, Suharto had only one name. In religious contexts in recent years he has sometimes been called “Haji” or “el-Haj Mohammed Suharto” but these names were not part of his formal name or generally used. The spelling \"Suharto\" reflects modern Indonesian spelling although the general approach in Indonesia is to rely on the spelling preferred by the person concerned. At the time of his birth, the standard transcription was \"Soeharto\" and he preferred the original spelling. The international English-language press generally uses the spelling 'Suharto' while the Indonesian government and media use 'Soeharto'.\n\nSuharto's upbringing contrasts with that of leading Indonesian nationalists such as Sukarno in that he is believed to have had little interest in anti-colonialism, or political concerns beyond his immediate surroundings. Unlike Sukarno and his circle, Suharto had little to no contact with European colonizers. Consequently, he did not learn to speak Dutch or other European languages in his youth. He learned to speak Dutch after his induction into the Dutch military in 1940.\n\nSuharto finished middle school at the age of 18 and took a clerical job at a bank in Wuryantaro. He was forced to resign after a bicycle mishap tore his only working clothes. Following a spell of unemployment, he joined the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army (KNIL) in June 1940, and undertook basic training in Gombong near Yogyakarta. With the Netherlands under German occupation and the Japanese pressing for access to Indonesian oil supplies, the Dutch had opened up the KNIL to large intakes of previously excluded Javanese. Suharto was assigned to Battalion XIII at Rampal, graduated from short training at KNIL \"Kaderschool\" in Gombong to become sergeant, and was posted to KNIL reserve battalion in Cisarua.\n\nFollowing the Dutch surrender to the invading Japanese forces in March 1942, Suharto abandoned his KNIL uniform and went back to Wurjantoro. After months of unemployment, he then became one of thousands of Indonesians who took the opportunity to join Japanese-organised security forces by joining the Yogyakarta police force. On October 1943, Suharto was transferred from the police force to the newly formed Japanese-sponsored militia, the PETA (Defenders of the Fatherland) in which Indonesians served as officers. In his training to serve at the rank of \"shodancho\" (platoon commander) he encountered a localised version of the Japanese \"bushido\", or \"way of the warrior\", used to indoctrinate troops. This training encouraged an anti-Dutch and pro-nationalist thought, although toward the aims of the Imperial Japanese militarists. The encounter with a nationalistic and militarist ideology is believed to have profoundly influenced Suharto's own way of thinking.\n\nSuharto was posted at a PETA coastal defence battalion at Wates, south of Yogyakarta, until he was admitted for training for company commander (\"chudancho\") in Bogor from April to August 1944. As company commander, he conducted training for new PETA recruits in Surakarta, Jakarta, and Madiun. The Japanese surrender and Proclamation of Indonesian Independence in August 1945 occurred when Suharto was posted at remote Brebeg area (on the slopes of Mount Wilis) to train new NCOs to replace those executed by the Japanese in the aftermath of failed PETA rebellion of February 1945 in Blitar, led by Supriyadi.\n\nTwo days after the Japanese surrender in the Pacific, independence leaders Sukarno and Hatta declared Indonesian independence, and were appointed president and vice-President respectively of the new Republic. Suharto disbanded his regiment in accordance with orders from the Japanese command and returned to Yogyakarta. As republican groups rose to assert Indonesian independence, Suharto helped to establish a fighting unit together with a former PETA colleague, Umar Slamet. This unit was amalgamated into the newly formed Indonesian armed forces (\"Tentara Keamanan Rakjat / TKR\") which was established on 5 October 1945. His leadership skills in leading several attacks against Japanese soldiers in Yogyakarta area to seize their weapons led to Suharto's promotion to major. He was given command of newly formed Battalion X of Regiment I, which was in turn part of Division IX led by Colonel Sudarsono. By October 1945, this division has secured full control of Yogyakarta area by forcing the surrender of remaining Japanese soldiers.\n\nThe arrival of the Allies, under a mandate to return the situation to the \"status quo ante bellum\", quickly led to clashes between Indonesian republicans and Allied forces, namely returning Dutch and assisting British forces. Suharto led his Battalion X when it was sent northwards to repel British advance towards Yogyakarta from British-occupied port of Semarang. In a series of battles at Magelang and Ambarawa lasting from late-October to December 1945, Republican forces forced the British to retreat to the confines of Semarang. Suharto's battle performance attracted attention of Sudirman, the Republican armed forces commander, who promoted him to lead newly formed Regiment III of Division IX (2,250 men) with rank of lieutenant-colonel on early 1946. On May 1946, Suharto's umbrella Division IX was amalgamated into new Division III under leadership of newly promoted Major-General Sudarsono. On 17 May 1946, the British handed-over control of Semarang to the Dutch T (\"Tijger\") Brigade. Suharto participated in a battle at Kendal where Division III successfully halted a southward advance by the Dutch brigade. As evidence of Suharto's increasing stature, on June 1946 Lieutenant-Colonel Sunarto Kusumodirdjo invited him to draft the working guidelines for the Battle Leadership Headquarters (MPP), a body created to organise and unify the command structure of the Indonesian nationalist forces.\n\nThe transfer of Republican capital from Jakarta to Yogyakarta on January 1946 exposed the armed units there to civilian political intrigue, most notably the \"3 July Affair\". Sukarno government's decision to commence negotiations with the Dutch caused much opposition from various Indonesian factions, which coalesced into a group called PP (\"Persatoean Perdjoangan\") led by communist politician Tan Malaka. PP's opposition to negotiation with the Dutch received sympathy from many sections of the armed forces, including its commander Sudirman and Suharto's direct superior Major-General Sudarsono. On 27 June 1946, Sudarsono ordered the kidnapping of Prime Minister Sutan Sjahrir who was leading the negotiations with the Dutch. When Sukarno issued order for Sudarsono's arrest, the plot leader took refuge in Suharto's regimental headquarters at the outskirts of Yogyakarta, bringing the kidnapped Sjahrir with him. Suharto, while providing protection to his superior Sudarsono, was also secretly in contact with Sudirman to find-out whether the commander decided to support Sudarsono's kidnapping plot. When Sudirman indicated that Sukarno has convinced him not to support Sudarsono, Suharto helped loyal government forces to arrest Sudarsono and release the kidnapped Sjahrir on 3 July 1946, hence protecting himself from the subsequent purge of Division III in the aftermath of the affair.\n\nThe 3 July Affair led to further restructuring of Division III. By August 1946, Suharto was head of Yogyakarta-based 22nd Regiment, one of the six regiments of Division III (now named the \"Diponegoro Division\") which is responsible for the Central Java area. According to Dutch intelligence reports, by mid-1947, Suharto's regiment consisted of four battalions who were regularly rotated northwards to the frontlines surrounding Semarang to help contain the Dutch forces there. Dutch intelligence reported that Suharto was assisting smuggling syndicates in the transport of opium through the territory he controlled with the help of Chinese-Indonesian merchant Liem Sioe Liong to be bartered with weapons, clothes, food, and other supplies.\n\nOn 21 July 1947, the Dutch launched Operatie Product, a military invasion into Republican-held areas. In Central Java, the Dutch T-Brigade pushed the Republican forces from Semarang to Magelang before a United Nations-brokered ceasefire was announced on 4 August. Suharto led his troops in the defence against this assault, and later was regularly rotated as frontline commander responsible for guarding the ceasefire line (Van Mook Line) north of Yogyakarta.\n\nOn 26 December 1947, Suharto married Siti Hartinah (known as Madam Tien), the daughter of a minor noble in the Mangkunegaran royal house of Solo. The arranged marriage was enduring and supportive, lasting until Tien's death in 1996. The couple had six children: Siti Hardiyanti Rukmana (Tutut, born 1949), Sigit Harjojudanto (born 1951), Bambang Trihatmodjo (born 1953), Siti Hediati (Titiek, born 1959), Hutomo Mandala Putra (Tommy, born 1962), and Siti Hutami Endang Adiningish (Mamiek, born 1964).\n\nThe signing of highly disadvantageous Renville Agreement on January 1948 resulted in evacuation of 35,000 Republican fighters from the Dutch-occupied side of the ceasefire line into the shrunk Republican-controlled territory. To control the unwieldy myriad of armed groups proliferating the Republican areas, Prime Minister Mohammad Hatta undertook rationalisation of the armed forces. On April 1948, Division III (\"Diponegoro Division\") was reduced from 16,000 to 7,000 men. Suharto was reshuffled as commander of Brigade III of the Division III, commanding four battalions. The unpopular rationalisation policies met often bloody resistance from many factions of the Republican forces, which again coalesced around the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI) under the leadership of Musso who recently returned from the Soviet Union. On late-September 1948, PKI-linked armed units seized control of Madiun in East Java and declared a \"Soviet Republic of Indonesia\" in opposition of Sukarno and Hatta. On 22 September, Republican commander Sudirman sent Suharto to communist-occupied Madiun to meet Musso in an unsuccessful attempt to reach a peaceful reconciliation. On 30 September, loyal troops launched assault on Madiun, which resulted in the killing of Musso and total defeat of the rebels by end-October 1948. Suharto's brigade participated in anti-communist operations in the areas east of Yogyakarta.\n\nOn 19 December 1948, to take advantage of the Republic's weak situation following the communist rebellion, the Dutch launched \"Operatie Kraai\", designed to destroy the Republic once and for all. This invasion, initiated with an airborne assault on Yogyakarta, resulted in the capture of Sukarno, Hatta, and other Republican civilian leaders. Meanwhile, the Republican army was forced into the countryside to wage guerrilla resistance inline with Sudirman's \"Wehrkreise\" strategy.\n\nSuharto, leaving his pregnant wife behind in Dutch-occupied Yogyakarta, led guerrilla operations from the rural areas south of the city. On 28 December 1948, Division III commander Colonel Bambang Sugeng divided Central Java into three defence areas (\"Wehrkreise\"). Suharto was appointed to command \"Wehrkreise\" III, consisting of two battalions operating in the areas surrounding Yogyakarta, with its headquarters at the Menorah hills in Bantul area. From January to February 1949, the Dutch T-Brigade incurred losses of 44 dead and 129 wounded from guerrilla attacks in areas under Suharto's control.\n\nIn dawn raids on 1 March 1949, Suharto's forces and local militia re-captured large parts of Yogyakarta city, holding it until noon. Suharto's later accounts had him as the lone plotter, although other sources say Sultan Hamengkubuwono IX of Yogyakarta and the Division III commander ordered the attack. However, General Nasution said that Suharto took great care in preparing the \"General Offensive\" (Indonesian \"Serangan Umum\"). The attack proved that the Dutch was very far from winning the guerrilla war. International opinion condemned the Dutch violation over internationally brokered Renville Agreement, with the United States and United Nations Security Council pressured the Dutch to cease the military offensive and to re-commence negotiations. These pressures resulted in Roem-van Roijen Agreement of 7 May 1949, whereby the Dutch agreed to release captured Republican leaders and return area surrounding Yogyakarta to Republican control in exchange of ceasefire. Suharto was responsible for the take-over of Yogyakarta city from the withdrawing Dutch forces on 29 June 1949. On 9 July 1949, Suharto led the welcoming parade for recently released Republican leaders (including Sukarno and Hatta) to Yogyakarta while the following day he led similar parade for tuberculosis-ridden Sudirman back into the city from his rural guerrilla base. On 27 December 1949, the Dutch surrendered sovereignty to the United States of Indonesia.\n\nBy 1950, Suharto served as commander of Brigade X (\"Garuda Mataram Brigade\") of Diponegoro Division, consisting of four battalions of around 800 men each. On April 1950, Suharto led this brigade to Makassar as part of expeditionary force to suppress a rebellion of former KNIL supporters of the Dutch-established State of East Indonesia led by Andi Azis (Makassar Uprising). During his stay in Makassar, Suharto became acquainted with his neighbours the Habibie family, whose eldest son B. J. Habibie would later become Suharto's vice-president and went on to succeed him as president. Suharto's brigade later engaged in the difficult mission of disarming and integrating both former KNIL soldiers and former pro-Republican guerillas into the army. His brigade defeated an unruly former guerrilla unit under Arief Rate (who was killed) and hostile former KNIL soldiers in heavy urban combat in Makassar city centre during June 1950, losing seventeen men killed in action. Suharto and his brigade returned to Central Java on September 1950 with the successful dissolution of State of East Indonesia into newly formed Unitary Republic of Indonesia.\n\nOn November 1951, Suharto was appointed to lead enlarged Pragola Brigade (consisting of nine battalions) based in Salatiga. On December 1951, one of Suharto's battalions (Battalion 426) which consisted of former Islamic militias, rebelled in support of ongoing Darul Islam insurgency in West Java. From late-December 1951 to late-January 1952, Suharto led \"Operasi Merdeka Timur V\" which successfully defeated the rebellious battalion in vicious fighting in Klaten area. Remnants of Battalion 426 joined Darul Islam insurgents operating in northwestern part of Central Java which were only defeated in 1957.\n\nOn March 1953, Suharto was appointed commander of Infantry Regiment III consisting of four battalions (3,704 men) based in Surakarta, organizing its participation in battling Darul Islam insurgents in northwestern Central Java and anti-bandit operations in Mount Merapi area. He also sought to stem pervasive leftist sympathies amongst his troops (one of his leftist-leaning subordinates in this period was Untung bin Sjamsuri who would later lead the 30 September Movement in 1965). His experience in this period left Suharto with deep distaste for both Islamic and communist radicalism which he believed could be countered only with material and financial sufficiency on the part of the people.\n\nOn 3 September 1956 Suharto was promoted to command the Diponegoro Division with the rank of colonel, based in Semarang and responsible for Central Java and Yogyakarta provinces. Upon a series of anti-Jakarta \"regional coups\" by military commanders in Sumatera and Sulawesi islands, and the subsequent declaration of martial law (\"Staat van Oorlog en Beleg\") by President Sukarno on March 1957, Suharto became regional martial law administrator for the two provinces. With wide-ranging power over civilian affairs in his hands, Suharto began organizing various fund-raising activities to finance his poorly paid troops under the coordination of the division's \"finance and economic office\". Developing on the fund-raising tactics he used during the revolutionary war, Suharto established charitable organizations (\"jajasan\") which would receive \"donations\" from all enterprises operating in the provinces as well as levying \"unofficial tax\" on provision of goods and services. With the aid of ethnic-Chinese businessmen such as Bob Hasan, Suharto organized bartering of sugar and copra to Singapore in exchange with much-needed food supplies. By 1959, Suharto's \"jajasan\"s had acquired capital of Rp 75,750,800 (equivalent to 1959 US$1,683,351 and a current value of US$13.3 million).\n\nThe defeat of the PRRI-Permesta rebellions (in which Suharto's divisional soldiers were heavily involved) was followed by President Sukarno's decree of 5 July 1959 concentrating power at the president. As part of re-assertion of central government control, army chief General Abdul Haris Nasution launched a nationwide crackdown on regional military corruption, including Suharto's commercial activities in Central Java. On July 1959, Nasution sent army internal audit chief Brigadier-General Sungkono to audit financial dealings of Diponegoro Division. The investigation found that while some of the proceeds from Suharto's \"jajasan\"s were used for charitable purposes, most of the money raised could not be accounted for responsibly. On 1 November 1959, Suharto was removed from his divisional command and was instructed to attend army staff and command training (SSKAD, now SESKOAD) in Bandung.\n\nDespite this setback, Suharto's past services and strong backers meant that his future career remained undisturbed. While in Bandung he was promoted to brigadier-general on January 1960. Suharto graduated from SSKAD on December 1960 with a thesis on greater military role in political, economic, and social development of Indonesia. He was then appointed as operational deputy to army chief-of-staff based in Jakarta. On March 1961, he was given an additional command, as head of the army's new general reserve force called \"Tjadangan Umum Angkatan Darat / TJADUAD\" (later renamed Komando Strategis Angkatan Darat / KOSTRAD), a ready-reaction air-mobile force. Additionally, he was appointed to lead the new army air-defence command (\"Komando Pertahanan Udara Angkatan Darat / KOHANUDAD\") on October 1961.\n\nOn 9 January 1962, Suharto was promoted to the rank of major-general and appointed to lead Mandala Command, a joint army-navy-air force command of 42,000 soldiers formed the organize the military aspect of the campaign to win Netherlands New Guinea (whom Indonesians referred to as \"West Irian\"), from the Dutch who were preparing it for independence outside of Indonesia, contrary to the provisions of Dutch-Indonesian Round Table Conference of 1949. His position as Mandala commander, based in Makassar, provided martial-law power over Sulawesi, Maluku Islands, and Lesser Sunda Islands covering 5 million square kilometres. Suharto organized infiltration of around 3,000 Indonesian soldiers into the disputed territory by air and sea, although these infiltrators were mostly dropped deep in the jungle with no effect on Dutch control over population centers. With massive Soviet armaments and even manpower aid, Suharto formulated a highly risky plan to invade and capture Dutch military headquarters in Biak using 25,000 soldiers in an airborne and amphibious operation code-named \"Operasi Djajawidjaja\" set for 15 August 1962. However, Suharto received orders to abort the operation while he was already in-place at advanced headquarters in Peleng island, off Sulawesi. On 15 August, under heavy American pressure, the Dutch signed the New York Agreement whereby control over West Irian was relinquished to UNTEA (United National Temporary Executive Authority) on October 1962. On 1 May 1963, UNTEA handed-control of the territory to Indonesia. On that day, Suharto led a \"victory parade\" of Indonesian soldiers in front of President Sukarno at West Irian's capital Sukarnapura (formerly Hollandia, now Jayapura).\n\nAfter the disbandment of Mandala Command on May 1963, Suharto returned to Jakarta to his post as KOSTRAD (formerly TJADUAD) commander. As evidence of his seniority, he was appointed as deputy head of army advisory board on senior-level promotions (WANDJAKTI) on July 1963. Again showing his penchant for commercial dealings, Suharto used his KOSTRAD command to establish several \"jajasan\"s which ostensibly functioned to raise funds to cover KOSTRAD's operational needs. On April 1964, Suharto established \"Jajasan Darma Putra\", which over-time acquired shares in raft of businesses from transportation, banking, and manufacturing sectors (such as Mandala Airlines and Bank Windu Kentjana).\n\nDuring this period, Sukarno gradually shifted the country to the left by promoting the growth of Indonesian Communist Party (PKI) in order to counter the power of the military within his Guided Democracy system. On May 1964, Sukarno declared military confrontation against newly formed Malaysia, with the stated objective of establishing \"State of North Kalimantan\" under leadership of North Kalimantan Communist Party. To organize the military aspect of this confrontation, Sukarno formed the Vigilance Command (\"Komando Siaga / KOGA\") commanded by air force commander Omar Dhani. On October 1964, KOGA was transformed into Vigilance Mandala Command (\"Komando Mandala Siaga / KOLAGA\") with wide-ranging martial law powers over the islands of Sumatera and Kalimantan which borders Malaysia. Dhani remained as KOLAGA commander, while Suharto was appointed as KOLAGA first deputy with authority over operational affairs. KOLAGA organized infiltration of Indonesian soldiers and volunteers (as well as Malaysian communists) into Malaysia where they engaged in jungle warfare with British and Commonwealth soldiers deployed to protect the nascent Malaysia.\n\nWhile publicly supportive of Sukarno's confrontation policy, the army leadership was very reluctant to commit to the military confrontation against Malaysia, which they considered to benefit only the PKI at expense of the military. Additionally, the army was slighted by appointment of airforce commander Dhani, a known communist sympathiser, as KOLAGA commander. Army chief Lieutenant-General Ahmad Yani and Suharto ensured that the best-prepared troops and vital supplies remained in Java to ensure no escalation of the conflict. This strategy was supported by army commander in North Sumatera, Colonel Kemal Idris, who was an avowed anti-communist. However, the army commander in Kalimantan, Brigadier-General Mustafa Sjarif Supardjo, was a committed communist sympathiser who strongly resented the army headquarters' barely disguised sabotage policy. He would later become a key participant in the 30 September Movement against top army leadership. Unlike Yani who barely disguised his disapproval of confrontation policy, Suharto managed to maintain his public appearance as enthusiastic supporter of Sukarno's anti-Malaysian policies.\n\nOn August 1964, Suharto authorised KOSTRAD's intelligence officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Ali Murtopo, to send several officers (including future Armed Forces chief Leonardus Benjamin Moerdani) to spread secret peace-feelers to the Malaysian government. Suharto's position in KOLAGA also provided him with more sinister commercial opportunity in organizing the smuggling of rubber, timber, and other primary products from North Sumatera to Malaysia using ethnic-Chinese fishermen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11184280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11184280", "title": "Elsie Clews Parsons", "text": "Elsie Clews Parsons\n\nElsie Worthington Clews Parsons (November 27, 1875 – December 19, 1941) was an American anthropologist, sociologist, folklorist, and feminist who studied Native American tribes—such as the Tewa and Hopi—in Arizona, New Mexico, and Mexico. She helped found The New School. She was associate editor for \"The Journal of American Folklore\" (1918-1941), president of the American Folklore Society (1919-1920), president of the American Ethnological Society (1923-1925), and was elected the first female president of the American Anthropological Association (1941) right before her death.\n\nShe earned her bachelor's degree from Barnard College in 1896. She received her master’s degree (1897) and Ph.D. (1899) from Columbia University.\n\nEvery other year, the American Ethnological Society awards the \"Elsie Clews Parsons Prize\" for the best graduate student essay, in her honor.\n\nParsons was the daughter of Henry Clews, a wealthy New York banker, and Lucy Madison Worthington. Her brother, Henry Clews, Jr. was an artist. On September 1, 1900, in Newport, Rhode Island, she married future three-term progressive Republican congressman Herbert Parsons, an associate and political ally of President Teddy Roosevelt. When her husband was a member of Congress, she published two then-controversial books under the pseudonym John Main.\n\nParsons became interested in anthropology in 1910. She believed that folklore was a key to understanding a culture and that anthropology could be a vehicle for social change.\n\nHer work \"Pueblo Indian Religion\" is considered a classic; here she gathered all her previous extensive work and that of other authors. It is, however, marred by intrusive and deceptive research techniques.\n\nShe is, however, pointed to by current critical scholars as an archetypical example of an \"Antimodern Feminist\" thinker, known for their infatuation with Native American Indians that often manifested as a desire to preserve a \"traditional\" and \"pure\" Indian identity, irrespective of how Native Peoples themselves approached issues of modernization or cultural change. Grande (2004, p. 134) argues that her racist and objectivizing tendencies towards indigenous peoples of the Americas is evidenced, for example, by her willingness to change her name and appropriate a Hopi \"identity\" primarily to increase her access to research sites and participants (Jacobs 1999, p. 102).\n\nParsons feminist beliefs were viewed as extremely radical for her time. She was a proponent of trial marriages, divorce by mutual consent and access to reliable contraception, which she wrote about in her book \"The Family\" (1906). She also wrote about the effects society had on the growth of individuals, and more precisely the effect of gender role expectations and how they stifle individual growth for both women and men. \"The Family\" (1906) was met with such back-lash she published her second book \"Religious Chastity\" (1913) under the pseudonym \"John Main\" as to not affect her husband, Herbert Parsons political career. Her ideas where so far ahead that only after her death did they begin to be discussed. This has led to her becoming recognized as one of the early pioneers of the feminist movement. Her writings and her lifestyle challenged conventional gender roles at the time and helped spark the conversation for gender equality.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5338879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5338879", "title": "Erich Muhsfeldt", "text": "Erich Muhsfeldt\n\nErich Mußfeldt, (18 February 1913 – 24 January 1948) was a German war criminal, an SS NCO who served in two extermination camps during World War II in occupied Poland - Auschwitz and Majdanek. He was arrested and charged by the Allies originally in 1946, then transferred to Poland where the full extent of his war crimes was revealed thanks to new evidence. He was retried by the Supreme National Tribunal at the Auschwitz Trial in Kraków, and found guilty of crimes against humanity. Muhsfeldt was sentenced to death by hanging in December 1947, and executed on 24 January 1948.\n\nMuhsfeldt was a baker in civilian life. At the time of his service in the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" he was reportedly married with one son. The fate of his wife is unclear. According to Miklós Nyiszli, his wife was killed in an air raid, and his son sent to the Russian front.\n\nOriginally Muhsfeldt served with the German \"SS-Sonderkommando\" at Auschwitz I in 1940. He was transferred to the work/extermination camp at Majdanek on 15 November 1941. He was involved in the final mass shooting of the camp's remaining Jewish inmates known as the Operation Harvest Festival or \"Erntefest\". It was the largest single-day, single-camp massacre of the Holocaust, totalling 43,000 in three nearby locations. When the Majdanek camp was liquidated, he transferred back to Auschwitz, where he then served as supervising \"SS\" officer of the Jewish \"Sonderkommando\" in Crematorium II and III in Auschwitz II (Birkenau).\n\nUpon his return to Auschwitz, Muhsfeldt had an unusual relationship with renowned Jewish-Hungarian pathologist Miklós Nyiszli, who was forced to carry out autopsies on behalf of Josef Mengele. Nyiszli survived the war and later gave evidence about what happened at Auschwitz. Nyiszli described one incident when Muhsfeldt came to him for a routine check-up, after shooting 80 prisoners in the back of the head prior to their cremation. Nyiszli commented that Muhsfeldt's blood pressure was high, and inquired as to whether this could be related to the recent increase in \"traffic\", as the mass murder of newly arrived victims was euphemistically called. Muhsfeldt replied angrily that it made no difference to him, whether he shot one person or eighty. If his blood pressure was too high, it was because he drank too much he said.\n\nNyiszli described an exceedingly rare occurrence, in which an inmate girl 15 or younger due to highly unusual circumstances, managed to survive the gas chamber and, with medical help from Nyiszli and others after she was discovered alive, was partially recovering. Nyiszli took up her case with Muhsfeldt asking that her life be spared. Muhsfeldt replied \"There's no way of getting round it, the child will have to die.\" Nyiszli explains that \"Half an hour later the young girl was led, or rather carried, into the furnace room hallway, and there [Muhsfeldt] sent another in his place to do the job. A bullet in the back of the neck...\"\n\nAfter the war had ended, Muhsfeldt was arrested and charged by the War Crimes Group, European Command initially. He was retried in Kraków by the Supreme National Tribunal in 1947, where he was sentenced to death for his war crimes. He was executed by hanging on 24 January 1948.\n\nMuhsfeldt appears as a minor character in the 1983 James Michener novel Poland.\n"}
{"id": "52493344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52493344", "title": "Family of Angela Merkel", "text": "Family of Angela Merkel\n\nThe family of Angela Merkel, the Chancellor of Germany, is of German and Polish descent. Merkel was born Angela Dorothea Kasner on 17 July 1954 in Hamburg. The Kasner name is derived from Jan Kaźmierczak, a Pole from Poznań who lived in the 18th century. Merkel's grandfather changed the name to Kasner in 1930. Merkel has been married twice, and kept the name of her first husband Ulrich Merkel. Angela Merkel's family was extensively discussed in a 2013 biography.\n\nHorst Kasner (né Horst Kaźmierczak; born August 6, 1926 in Berlin, died September 2, 2011 in Templin) was the father of Angela Merkel, and was a Protestant theologian.\n\nLudwig Kasner (né Ludwik Marian Kaźmierczak; born 1896 in Posen, German Empire (now Poznań), died 1959 in Berlin) was the paternal grandfather of Angela Merkel. He served as a soldier in the Polish Blue Army which took part in Poland's struggle for independence. In the aftermath of the First World War he moved to Berlin, the hometown of his fiancée Margarethe, and worked in the Berlin Police.\n\nHerlind Kasner (née Jentzsch; born on 8 July 1928 in Danzig) is the mother of Angela Merkel and a teacher of English and Latin.\n\nWilli Jentzsch (born 15 May 1886 in Bitterfeld-Wolfen, died 23 May 1936 in the Free City of Danzig) was the maternal grandfather of Angela Merkel. He was a teacher, school administrator and politician in the Free City of Danzig, and was elected as one of the eleven Senators of the Free City of Danzig on 27 October 1926, but resigned on 1 November 1927 to become rector of the renowned Gymnasium St. Johann in Fleischergasse. In March 1936, he became school director in Danzig, and thus head of all elementary schools in the city-state.\n\nMarcus Kasner (born 7 July 1957 in Perleberg) is the only brother of Angela Merkel and is a theoretical physicist.\n\nHis early career paralleled that of his sister Angela; like her he studied physics, earned a doctoral degree in physics (Dr.rer.nat.) and worked as a researcher at the German Academy of Sciences at Berlin. He earned his Habilitation with the dissertation \"Electronic correlation in the quantum Hall regime\" at the Otto von Guericke University Magdeburg in 2002. He has published papers in journals such as \"Physical Review Letters\", \"Physical Review\" and \"Physica\". Kasner currently teaches at the Institute for Theoretical Physics at the Goethe University Frankfurt and lives in Darmstadt.\n\nDuring the Fall of Communism, Marcus Kasner was involved in the opposition movement in East Germany in the same small circle as his sister as she started her political career. He was a friend of Günter Nooke, the founder of Democratic Awakening, and took part in political discussions on the future of the state. After the German reunification, he was a member of Alliance '90/The Greens.\n\nIrene Kasner (born 19 August 1964) is the only sister of Angela Merkel and is an occupational therapist.\n\nUlrich Merkel was the first husband of Angela Merkel. He met Angela Kasner in 1974 when they were both physics students, and they married in 1977. The marriage ended in divorce in 1982. Angela Merkel kept her first husband's name.\n\nJoachim Sauer (born 19 April 1949) is the second husband of Angela Merkel. He is a quantum chemist and full professor at the Humboldt University of Berlin. He married Angela Merkel on 30 December 1998.\n"}
{"id": "57932387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57932387", "title": "Ferdinand Marcos presidential campaign, 1969", "text": "Ferdinand Marcos presidential campaign, 1969\n\nThe 1969 reelection campaign of Ferdinand Marcos, the 10th President of the Republic of the Philippines, started in July 1969 when incumbent President Ferdinand Marcos was unanimously nominated as the Presidential candidate of the Nacionalista Party, and concluded when the 1969 Philippine presidential election concluded with Marcos winning an unprecedented second full term as President of the Philippines. With Fernando Lopez as his vice president, he ran against the Liberal Party slate of, Sergio Osmena, Jr and Genaro Magsaysay.\n\nFerdinand Marcos won his first campaign for the Philippine Presidency in November 1965, and was inaugurated just before new year's day in December the same year. Under the 1935 Constitution of the Philippines which was in force at the time, Marcos was supposed to be allowed a maximum of two four year terms as President.\n\nThe formal beginning of the 1969 campaign can be dated to the July 1969 meeting of the Philippines' Nacionalista Party, in which Ferdinand Marcos was formally nominated as the party's presidential candidate. A meeting of the party's ruling junta had met a week earlier to assure that the nomination would be unanimous.\n\nWith his popularity already beefed up by debt-funded spending, Marcos' popularity made it very likely that he would win the election, but he decided, as National Artist for Literature Nick Joaquin reported in the Philippines Free Press, to \"\"leave nothing to chance\".\" Time and Newsweek would eventually call the 1969 election the \"dirtiest, most violent and most corrupt\" in Philippine modern history, with the term \"Three Gs\", meaning \"guns, goons, and gold\" coined to describe administration's election tactics of vote-buying, terrorism and ballot snatching.\n\nMarcos used the military and the government bureaucracy for his campaign, with members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines participating in putting up campaign propaganda.\n\nMarcos also launched USD50 million worth in infrastructure projects in an effort to curry favor with the electorate. This rapid campaign spending was so massive that it would be responsible for the Balance of Payments Crisis of 1970, whose inflationary effect would cause social unrest leading all the way up to the proclamation of Martial Law in 1972. Marcos was reported to have spent PhP 100 for every PhP 1 that Osmena spent, using up PhP 24 Million in Cebu alone.\n\nThe most violent election-related incidents took place in Batanes, where Philippine Constabulary officers, paramilitary groups, and hired guns essentially took over the island, and motorcycle-riding thugs rode around terrorizing voters and Comelec officials, and beating up opposition leaders.\n\nPresidential, legislative and local elections were held on November 11, 1969, resulting in an unprecedented second full term as President of the Philippines for Incumbent President Marcos. Incumbent Vice President Fernando Lopez was also elected to a third full term as Vice President of the Philippines. Twelve other candidates ran for president, however ten of those were widely considered \"nuisance candidates,\" and did not garner a significant number of votes in the election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218667", "title": "Franco-Ontarian", "text": "Franco-Ontarian\n\nFranco-Ontarians ( or \"Franco-Ontariennes\" if female) are French Canadian or francophone residents of the Canadian province of Ontario. They are sometimes known as \"Ontarois\".\n\nThere are more than 600,000 francophones residing in Ontario. According to the 2016 Canadian census, there were 550,600 people living in Ontario who declared French their first official language spoken, 490,715 people who declared French their mother tongue, and 277,045 Ontarians who declared French as the language they speak most often at home. Over 1.4 million Ontarians reported themselves as bilingual, and 1.3 million Ontarians reported French ethnic origins. French-speaking Ontarians constitute the largest French-speaking community in Canada outside Quebec, as well as the largest minority language group within Ontario, and French is the fourth most common ethnic background in the province after English, Scottish and Irish.\n\nThe francophone population is concentrated primarily in Eastern Ontario, in Ottawa, Cornwall and many rural farming communities, and in Northeastern Ontario, in the cities of Sudbury, North Bay and Timmins and a number of smaller towns, but can also be found in smaller numbers throughout the province. Other communities with notable francophone populations are Hamilton, London, St. Catharines, Lakeshore, Windsor, Penetanguishene and Welland.\n\nOttawa, with 128,620 francophones, has the province's largest Franco-Ontarian community by size. Among the province's major cities, Greater Sudbury has the largest proportion of Franco-Ontarians to the general population at 29 per cent, and Timmins has the largest proportion among the smaller sized cities at 41 per cent. Prescott and Russell United Counties has the highest proportion of Franco-Ontarians to the general population among the province's census divisions, with about two-thirds of the population being francophone.\n\nSome smaller communities in Ontario have a francophone majority. These include Hearst, Kapuskasing, Smooth Rock Falls, Embrun, St. Charles, Sturgeon Falls, Rockland, Casselman, Dubreuilville, Vankleek Hill and Hawkesbury.\n\nThe French presence in Ontario dates from the mid-17th century. Early settlements in the region include the Mission of Sainte-Marie among the Hurons at Midland in 1649, Sault Sainte Marie in 1668, and Fort Pontchartrain du Détroit in 1701. Southern Ontario was part of the \"Pays d'en-haut\" (Upper Country) of New France and was later part of the province of Quebec until Quebec was split into The Canadas in 1791. However, prior to the Articles of Capitulation of Quebec, which handed control of New France from France to Great Britain, modern-day Ontario had only very limited European settlement, apart from a few military forts. Modern Franco-Ontarians are instead descended primarily from people who moved to Ontario from Quebec or New Brunswick in the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe term \"Franco-Ontarian\" has two related usages which overlap closely but are not identical: it may refer to francophone residents of Ontario, regardless of their place of birth, or to people of French Canadian ancestry \"born\" in Ontario, regardless of their primary language or current place of residence.\n\nIn popular usage, the first meaning predominates and the second is poorly understood. Although most Franco-Ontarians meet both definitions, there are notable exceptions. For example, although Louise Charron was the first native-born Franco-Ontarian appointed to the bench of the Supreme Court of Canada, she was preceded as a francophone judge from Ontario by Louise Arbour, a Quebecer who worked in Ontario for much of her professional career as a lawyer and judge. As a result, both women have been referred to as \"the first Franco-Ontarian Supreme Court justice\", although the technically correct practice is to credit Charron, Franco-Ontarian in both senses, with that distinction.\n\nConversely, two of the most famous rock musicians from Ontario, Avril Lavigne and Alanis Morissette, are Franco-Ontarian by the second definition but not by the first, since they were born to Franco-Ontarian parents but currently live outside Ontario and work primarily in English. Former Prime Minister Paul Martin was born in Windsor to a Franco-Ontarian father from Pembroke and an anglophone mother, although many Canadians consider him a Quebecer as he represented a Montreal riding in Parliament.\n\nBoth meanings can be politically charged. Using the second to the exclusion of the first may be considered offensive to some in that it excludes francophones born in or with ethnic origins from other countries, such as Haiti, Vietnam or Tunisia, from the Franco-Ontarian community. Using the first to the exclusion of the second obscures the very real ethno-cultural distinctions that exist between Franco-Ontarians, Québécois, Acadians, Métis and other Canadian francophone communities, and the pressures toward assimilation into the English Canadian majority that the community faces. As a result, the complex political and sociological context of \"Franco-Ontarian\" can only be fully understood by recognizing both meanings and understanding the distinctions between the two.\n\nThe Franco-Ontarian identity is further split into three groups according to historical waves of settlement and immigration. The first wave of settlement in the Detroit/Windsor area came in the 18th century, under French rule. Most settlers then came from what is now Quebec, including both full French and Métis. A second wave came in the 19th and early 20th centuries to the areas of Eastern Ontario and Northeastern Ontario. This was an immigration wave, in the sense that Ontario was primarily British and mainly English-speaking, but the migrants can also be considered settlers, because they founded many villages or settled within already existing francophone communities. In the Ottawa Valley, in particular, some families have moved back and forth across the Ottawa river for generations (the river is the border between Ontario and Quebec), which results in a complex borderland identity. In the city of Ottawa some areas such as Vanier and Orleans have a rich Francophone heritage, with families often having members on both sides of the Ottawa River.\n\nThe third and most recent wave consists of Quebecers and other francophones (Haitians, Maghrebans, Europeans, etc.) who move to the larger cities and often preserve their original identity (Québécois, Haitian, etc.) as their primary cultural affiliation. Franco-Ontarians may also have historical ties to more than one of these three groups, which blurs the lines between these distinctions. Intermarriage between Franco-Ontarians and people of other ethnic or cultural backgrounds is also quite common. \n\nThe term \"Ontarois\", following the convention that a francophone minority is referred to with ending of -ois, is sometimes used to distinguish French-speaking Ontarians, while the general term for Ontarian in French is \"Ontarien\".\n\nAlthough Ontario as a whole is not officially bilingual, the Ontario government's French Language Services Act designates 25 areas of the province where provincial ministries and agencies are required to provide local French-language services to the public. An area is designated as a French service area if the francophone population is greater than 5,000 people \"or\" 10% of the community's total population. Due to the 5,000 population threshold, large cities that are actually overwhelmingly anglophone (and may also have several widely-spoken immigrant languages) with virtually no obvious francophone element due to very low percentages, such as Toronto (population 2,731,571) or Brampton (population 593,638) are nevertheless still subject to the Act. \n\nThe French Language Services Act applies to provincial government services only. It does not require municipal governments to provide bilingual services. Municipal governments may, however, provide French language services at their own discretion.\n\nThe following census divisions (denoted in dark blue on the map) are designated areas in their entirety:\n\nThe following census divisions (denoted in light blue on the map) are not fully designated areas, but have communities within their borders which are designated for bilingual services:\n\n\nThe most recent addition to the list of designated areas is the city of Kingston. It was named in May 2006, and after the three-year implementation period provided for by the French Language Services Act, officially became a bilingual service centre in 2009.\n\nThe Office of Francophone Affairs is the government agency responsible for ensuring that French language services are provided. Francophones who live in non-designated areas can also receive French language services by directly contacting the Office of Francophone Affairs in Toronto, or in the nearest designated community. The cabinet minister currently responsible for the Office of Francophone Affairs is Marie-France Lalonde.\n\nThe judicial system in Ontario is officially bilingual in all areas, although in some parts of the province a legal matter involving francophones may have to be transferred to another region where francophone services are more readily available. A francophone who wishes to be served in French by the judicial system cannot be refused this transfer if he or she cannot be served locally in French.\n\nThere are 44 municipalities in Ontario which are officially or functionally bilingual at the municipal level. Most of these are members of the Francophone Association of Municipalities of Ontario, or \"AFMO\".\n\nOn April 26, 2010, the Ontario government designated September 25 as Franco-Ontarian Day. This date was chosen as it represented the anniversary of the official raising of the Franco-Ontarian flag in 1975.\n\nIn the past, the Ontario government was often much less supportive of and often openly hostile toward the Franco-Ontarian community. Regulation 17, passed in 1912, forbade French-language instruction in Ontario schools. Although the regulation itself was rescinded in 1927, the government continued to refuse funding for French language high schools until the latter half of the 1960s. As a result, francophones had to pursue high school education in English, pay tuition to private high schools (which few Franco-Ontarian families could afford), or simply stop attending school after Grade 9.\n\nAs a result, several generations of Franco-Ontarians grew up without formal education since the dropout rate for francophones was quite high during this period. Franco-Ontarians thus opted for jobs which did not require reading and mathematical skills, such as mining and forestry, and were virtually absent from white collar jobs. Sociologically, it meant that education was not a value transmitted to younger Franco-Ontarians. Although this has changed dramatically since the advent of funding for francophone high schools in the 1960s, according to the 2001 census, francophones in Ontario still tend to have a lower level of education than the general population.\n\nFurther, those who do have higher levels of education often pursue job opportunities in larger cities, particularly Ottawa or even Montreal, which can create a barrier to economic development in their home communities. As well, even today many students of Franco-Ontarian background are still educated in anglophone schools. This has the effect of reducing the use of French as a first language in the province, and thereby limiting the growth of the Franco-Ontarian community; in the Canada 2006 Census, for example, 40 per cent of residents of Sudbury reported themselves as able to speak or understand French, but only 16 per cent of the city's population reported actually using the French language in their daily lives and barely one per cent of the city's population reported themselves as being exclusively francophone.\n\nOntario now has eight French-language Roman Catholic school boards and four French-language public school boards. Each of these school boards serves a significantly larger catchment area than an English-language school board in the province, due to the smaller francophone population.\n\nCurrently, Ontario has two exclusively francophone community colleges, La Cité collégiale in Ottawa, with a second campus in Hawkesbury, and Collège Boréal in Sudbury, with additional campuses in several Northern Ontario communities, and one in Toronto. Collège Boréal also operates a network of student access centres throughout the province to promote its programs and services. A third college, Collège des Grands-Lacs in Toronto, ceased operations in 2002, and its programs and services are now the Toronto campus of Collège Boréal. The Ontario Agricultural College has a francophone campus in Alfred.\n\nOntario has four universities which offer instruction in both English and French: Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Laurentian University in Sudbury, the Dominican University College in Ottawa, and the University of Ottawa. York University in Toronto has a bilingual federated college, Glendon College, although the university is otherwise an anglophone institution. Laurentian University has a federated college, Université de Hearst, which, although not a fully independent university, is the only exclusively francophone university-level institution in the province. In 2015, MPP France Gélinas introduced a private member's bill to mandate the creation of a fully independent French-language university.\n\nThe primary cultural organization of the Franco-Ontarian community is the Assemblée de la francophonie de l'Ontario, or AFO, which coordinates many of the community's cultural and political activities.\n\nThe Franco-Ontarian flag consists of two bands of green and white. The left portion has a solid light green background with a white fleur-de-lys in the middle, while the right portion has a solid white background with a stylized green trillium in the middle. The green represents the summer months, while the white represents the winter months. The trillium is the floral symbol of Ontario, while the fleur-de-lys represents the French-Canadian heritage of the Franco-Ontarian community. The green color on the flag is Pantone 349.\n\nThe flag was created in 1975 by Gaétan Gervais, history professor and Michel Dupuis, first year political science student, both from Laurentian University. It was officially recognized by the Ontario PC government as the emblem of the Franco-Ontarian community in the Franco-Ontarian Emblem Act of 2001.\n\nThe historical park, also known as Les Monuments de la francophonie d'Ottawa, was built by the francophone community to commemorate francophone contribution in the development and well being of the City of Ottawa. The first of six Monuments de la francophonie d'Ottawa designed by Edward J. Cuhaci represents the first homes and the founding of Bytown. The next five monuments, each progressing uphill, highlight business achievements that were crucial to the prosperity of Ottawa economy. The seventh monument, an unfinished granite block, symbolizes future developments. The flag is 5 x 10 m and was raised on a 27 m pole.\n\nThe dialects of French spoken in Ontario are similar to, but distinct from, Quebec French and constitute part of the greater Canadian French dialect. Due to the large English majority in the province, English loanwords are sometimes used in the informal or slang registers of Franco-Ontarian French. While English loanwords occur to a large extent in many varieties of French in Canada and Europe, there has been more of a conscious effort in Quebec to eliminate anglicisms.\n\nIn addition, the majority of Franco-Ontarians are, out of necessity, functionally or fluently bilingual in English, a fact that encourages borrowing, as does the fact that the English language has a greater prestige in the province from its being a majority language. Franco-Ontarian communities with a small francophone population tend to have more English-influenced French, and some younger speakers there may feel more comfortable using English than French. On the other hand, the French spoken in French-dominant Ontarian communities (such as Hearst and Hawkesbury), or in those communities near the Quebec border (such as Ottawa), is virtually indistinguishable from Quebec French.\n\nFurthermore, improved access to publicly funded French-language schools and the establishment of bilingual universities and French language community colleges has improved French-language proficiency in younger populations.\n\nFranco-Ontarians retain many cultural traditions from their French Canadian ancestry. For example, unmarried elder siblings \"dansent sur leurs bas\" (dance on their socks) when their younger siblings get married. Catholic Franco-Ontarians attend \"messe de minuit\" (midnight mass) on Christmas Eve. Many Franco-Ontarians also enjoy late night feasts/parties on Christmas Eve, called \"réveillon\", at which tourtière is a common dish.\n\nOntario has one francophone daily newspaper, \"Le Droit\" in Ottawa. However, several other communities in Ontario are served by francophone community weekly papers, including \"L'Express de Toronto\", \"Le Voyageur\" in Sudbury, \"L'Action\" in London/Sarnia, \"Le Rempart\" in Windsor and \"Le Journal de Cornwall\". Important historical publications include Sudbury's \"L'Ami du peuple\", published from 1942 to 1968.\n\nThe province has two Ici Radio-Canada Télé stations, CBOFT-DT in Ottawa and CBLFT-DT in Toronto, which previously had rebroadcast transmitters throughout the province but remain available provincewide on basic cable. Both stations carry identical programming broadcast from Montreal, except for local news. CBOFT produces a newscast for broadcast only in the Ottawa area, while CBLFT produces another serving the rest of the province. The network formerly also operated CBEFT in Windsor, which was shut down in 2012.\n\nThe provincial government operates TFO, a sister channel to TVOntario, which is available provincewide via mandatory carriage on basic cable or satellite packages and via online streaming. In 2003, TFO produced and aired \"Francoeur\", the first Franco-Ontarian \"téléroman\". In 2008, TFO also began airing the first Franco-Ontarian sitcom, \"Météo+\" — itself, in part, a satire of the Franco-Ontarian community's relative lack of access to local French-language media. In 2012, the production team behind \"Météo+\" launched \"Les Bleus de Ramville\".\n\nThe Quebec-based francophone network TVA as well as specialty channels TV5 Québec Canada and Ici RDI are available on all Ontario cable systems, as these channels are mandated by the CRTC for carriage by all Canadian cable operators. Where there is sufficient local demand for French-language television, Ontario cable systems may also offer French-language channels such as V, Ici ARTV, MusiquePlus and RDS, although these channels only have discretionary status outside Quebec and are typically offered only on a digital cable tier rather than in basic cable packages.\n\nOn radio, the Franco-Ontarian community is served primarily by Radio-Canada's Ici Radio-Canada Première network, which has originating stations in Ottawa (CBOF), Toronto (CJBC), Sudbury (CBON) and Windsor (CBEF), with rebroadcasters throughout Ontario. \"Ici Musique\", Radio-Canada's arts and culture network, currently broadcasts only in Ottawa (CBOX), Toronto (CJBC-FM), Sudbury (CBBX), Kitchener-Waterloo (CJBC-FM-1) and Windsor (CJBC-FM-2), with an additional transmitter licensed but not yet launched in Timmins.\n\nNon-profit francophone community stations exist in several communities, including Penetanguishene (CFRH), Hearst (CINN), Kapuskasing (CKGN), Cornwall (CHOD), Ottawa (CJFO) and Toronto (CHOQ). Many campus radio stations air one or two hours per week of French-language programming as well, although only CHUO at the University of Ottawa and CKLU at Laurentian University are officially bilingual stations.\n\nFrancophone commercial radio stations exist in Sudbury (CHYC), Timmins (CHYK) and Sturgeon Falls/North Bay (CHYQ); all three stations are owned and operated by Le5 Communications, and air distinct locally-targeted morning shows while operating for the remainder of the day as a shared region-wide simulcast with each station originating some of the common programming. Ottawa francophones are served by the commercial radio stations licensed to Gatineau, and many other Eastern Ontario communities are within the broadcast range of the Gatineau and Montreal media markets. One station in Hawkesbury (CHPR) airs a few hours per week of locally oriented programming, but otherwise simulcasts a commercial station from Montreal.\n\nThrough their proximity to Gatineau or Montreal, Ottawa and the communities east of it toward Montreal are the only regions in Ontario which have regular access to French-language theatrical films. However, Cinéfest in Sudbury and the Toronto International Film Festival include francophone films in their annual festival programs, the Toronto-based Cinéfranco festival programs a lineup consisting entirely of francophone films, and community groups in many smaller communities offer French film screenings from time to time. Francophone films also air on TFO and Radio-Canada.\n\nNine professional theatre companies offer French language theatrical productions, including five companies in Ottawa (Théâtre du Trillium, Théâtre de la Vieille 17, Vox Théâtre, Théâtre la Catapulte and Créations In Vivo), one in Sudbury (Théâtre du Nouvel-Ontario) and three in Toronto (Théâtre Corpus, Théâtre La Tangente and Théâtre Franglais de Toronto). There are also numerous community theatre groups and school theatre groups.\n\nAnnual music festivals include La Nuit sur l'étang in Sudbury and the Festival Franco-Ontarien in Ottawa. Notable figures in Franco-Ontarian music include Robert Paquette, Marcel Aymar, En Bref, Chuck Labelle, Les Chaizes Muzikales, Brasse-Camarade, Swing, Konflit Dramatik, Stéphane Paquette, Damien Robitaille and CANO.\n\nThe song \"Notre Place\" by Paul Demers and François Dubé, long considered an unofficial anthem of the Franco-Ontarian community after it was written for a gala to celebrate the passage of the French Language Services Act in 1986, was legally designated as the community's official anthem by the Legislative Assembly of Ontario in 2017.\n\nOntario has seven francophone publishing companies, including Sudbury's Prise de parole, Ottawa's Editions Le Nordir and Les Éditions David.\n\nNotable Franco-Ontarian writers include Lola Lemire Tostevin, Daniel Poliquin, Robert Dickson, Jean-Marc Dalpé, François Paré, Gaston Tremblay, Michel Bock, Doric Germain, Fernand Dorais and Hédi Bouraoui. The French-language scholar Joseph Médard Carrière was Franco-Ontarian.\n\nSee also List of French Canadian writers from outside Quebec.\n\nIn the late 1980s, several Ontario towns and cities, most famously Sault Ste. Marie, were persuaded by the Alliance for the Preservation of English in Canada to declare themselves \"English-only\" in the wake of the \"French Language Services Act\" and the Meech Lake Accord debate. This was considered by many observers to be a direct contributor to the resurgence of the Quebec sovereignty movement in the 1990s, and consequently to the 1995 Quebec referendum. (See also Sault Ste. Marie language resolution.)\n\nQuebec writer Yves Beauchemin once controversially referred to the Franco-Ontarian community as \"warm corpses\" (« cadavres encore chauds ») who had no chance of surviving as a community. In a similar vein, former Quebec Premier René Lévesque referred to them as \"dead ducks\".\n\nOn October 19, 2004, a Toronto lawyer successfully challenged a \"no left turn\" traffic ticket on the basis that the sign was not bilingual in accordance with the 1986 \"French Language Services Act\". The judge in \"R. v. Myers\" ruled that the traffic sign was not a municipal service, but instead was regulated under the provincial \"Highway Traffic Act\" and therefore subject to the bilingual requirements of the \"French Language Services Act\". As this was a lower court ruling, it did not affect any other court. However the implication of the decision was that many traffic signs in bilingually designated areas of Ontario would be invalid. It was feared that the ruling would have a similar effect as the Manitoba Language Rights ruling of the Supreme Court of Canada, in this case forcing municipalities to erect new bilingual road signs at great expense and invalidating millions of dollars in existing tickets before the courts. The City of Toronto appealed the ruling. At the appeal hearing both parties asked the court to enter a plea of guilty. A guilty verdict was entered even though no arguments were made by either side on the merits of the case. The situation created a legal vacuum for several years, during which numerous defendants used the bilingual signage argument to fight traffic tickets. The precedent was overturned by the Ontario Court of Appeal in a 2011 case, \"R. v. Petruzzo\", on the grounds that the \"French Language Services Act\" specifically states that municipalities are not required to offer services in French, even in provincially regulated areas such as traffic signage, if the municipality has not specifically passed its own bylaw governing its own provision of bilingual services.\n\nOntario's Minister of Francophone Affairs, Madeleine Meilleur, became the province's first cabinet minister to attend a Francophonie summit in 2004, travelling to Ouagadougou with counterparts from Quebec, New Brunswick and the federal government. Meilleur also expressed the hope that Ontario would someday become a permanent member of the organization. On November 26, 2016, Ontario was granted observer status by La Francophonie.\n\nOn January 10, 2005, Clarence-Rockland became the first Ontario city to pass a bylaw requiring all new businesses to post signs in both official languages. Clarence-Rockland is 60 per cent francophone, and the city council noted that the bylaw was intended to address the existence of both English-only and French-only commercial signage in the municipality.\n\nIn 2008, the provincial government officially introduced a French licence plate, with the French slogan \"Tant à découvrir\" in place of \"Yours to Discover\", as an optional feature for drivers who wished to use it.\n\nIn 2009, the government faced controversy during the H1N1 flu pandemic, when it sent out a health information flyer in English only, with no French version published or distributed for the province's francophone residents. In response, MPP France Gélinas introduced a private member's bill in May 2011 to have the provincial Commissioner of French Language Services report to the full Legislative Assembly of Ontario rather than exclusively to the Minister of Francophone Affairs.\n\nIn 2018, the provincial government of Doug Ford announced several government cutbacks that impacted the Franco-Ontarian community, including ending the position of the French Language Services Commissioner and transferring its responsibilities to the office of the Ontario Ombudsman, reducing the status of the Ministry of Francophone Affairs from a full ministry to a government office, and cancelling funding announced by the prior government of Kathleen Wynne for the creation of the French-language university. After extensive backlash to the announcement, Ford reversed course, announcing that the commissioner position would be retained and that the office of francophone affairs would be restored to a full government ministry, although he did not restore funding for the university. The actions led to one franco-Ontarian MPP, Amanda Simard, leaving his caucus to sit as an independent. \n\nDuring this period, governments in Quebec began to fly the Franco-Ontarian flag as a gesture of solidarity. The flag was hoisted at Montreal City Hall on November 23, and at the National Assembly of Quebec on December 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "5587636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5587636", "title": "George F. Dales", "text": "George F. Dales\n\nGeorge Franklin Dales Jr. (August 13, 1927 – April 25, 1992), was an archaeology professor at the University of Pennsylvania, and later the University of California, Berkeley, where he chaired the South and Southeast Asian Studies department. He was considered a leading expert on Indus valley peoples and their languages.\n\nDales was born in Akron. He received his bachelor's degree in classical studies in 1953 from the University of Akron. In 1960, he earned his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied the history, art and archeology of the ancient Middle East and the cuneiform scripts of the Sumerian, Akkadian and Hurrian languages. The title of his Ph.D. dissertation was \"Mesopotamian and Related Female Figurines: Their Chronology, Diffusion and Cultural Functions.\"\n\nDales served in the Marine Corps in China from 1945-48. He spent 30 seasons of archeological excavations, starting at Nippur in 1957. Later, he excavated a number of the Indus Valley Civilization sites. In 1959, he conducted an archeological survey in the Bandar Abbas region of southern Iran. In 1960, he made a coastal survey (along with his wife Barabara, T. Cuyler Young, Jr and M.R. Mughal) that showed archeological evidence of trade routes on the Makran coast of Pakistan. In 1964-65, he excavated at Mohenjo Daro for one season. Between 1973 and 1979, Dales excavated at the Indus Valley Civilization site of Balakot. From 1961-63 he was a special lecturer at the University of Toronto, Canada. He then returned to the University of Pennsylvania as Assistant (1963–66) and then Associate (1966–72) Curator-in-Charge of the South Asia section of The University Museum, with concurrent appointments as Assistant and Associate Professor in the South Asia Regional Studies Department (where he was Co-Chairman in 1970-71).\n\nIn 1972, Dales joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley as a member of the Department of Near Eastern Studies. A year later this appointment was adjusted to a half-time appointment in the Department of Near Eastern Studies and a half-time appointment in the Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies. This latter arrangement permitted him to offer courses in both ancient Near Eastern and ancient South Asian archaeology and history. From April 1979 through December 1980, he chaired the Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies. He was also the Chairman of Berkeley's Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies from 1980-1982.\n\nIn 1986, he became one of the co-directors of the Harappa Archeological Research Project, involving a number of universities and institutions. He died in 1992 at Berkeley.\n\nDales published more than 80 articles and monographs. His works include \"Excavations at Mohenjo-Daro, Pakistan: The Pottery\" (1986), co-authored with his student, Jonathan Mark Kenoyer. This work was published by the University of Pennsylvania. The definitive account of his 1960 survey on the Makran coast of Pakistan, written in the form of an illustrated journal was the last manuscript to be completed by him before his death. This latter work was published by the Archaeological Research Facility of the University of California, Berkeley, in 1992, entitled, \"Explorations on the Makran coast, Pakistan: A search for paradise\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "271054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271054", "title": "Hermit", "text": "Hermit\n\nA hermit (adjectival form: eremitic or hermitic) is a person who lives in seclusion from society, usually for religious reasons. Hermits are a part of several sects of Christianity, and the concept is found in other religions as well.\n\nIn Christianity, the term was originally applied to a Christian who lives the eremitic life out of a religious conviction, namely the Desert Theology of the Old Testament (i.e., the 40 years wandering in the desert that was meant to bring about a change of heart).\n\nIn the Christian tradition the eremitic life is an early form of monastic living that preceded the monastic life in the cenobium. The Rule of St Benedict (ch. 1) lists hermits among four kinds of monks. In the Roman Catholic Church, in addition to hermits who are members of religious institutes, the Canon law (canon 603) recognizes also diocesan hermits under the direction of their bishop as members of the consecrated life. The same is true in many parts of the Anglican Communion, including the Episcopal Church in the US, although in the canon law of the Episcopal Church they are referred to as \"solitaries\" rather than \"hermits\".\n\nOften, both in religious and secular literature, the term \"hermit\" is also used loosely for any Christian living a secluded prayer-focused life, and sometimes interchangeably with anchorite/anchoress, recluse and \"solitary\". Other religions, for example, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam (Sufism), and Taoism, also have hermits in the sense of individuals living an ascetic form of life.\n\nIn modern colloquial usage, \"hermit\" denotes anyone living apart from the rest of society, or simply participating in fewer social events, for any reason.\n\nThe word \"hermit\" comes from the Latin \"ĕrēmīta\", the latinisation of the Greek ἐρημίτης (\"erēmitēs\"), \"of the desert\", which in turn comes from ἔρημος (\"erēmos\"), signifying \"desert\", \"uninhabited\", hence \"desert-dweller\"; adjective: \"eremitic\".\n\nIn the common Christian tradition the first known Christian hermit in Egypt was Paul of Thebes (fl. 3rd century), hence also called \"St. Paul the first hermit\". His disciple Antony of Egypt (fl. 4th century), often referred to as \"Antony the Great\", is perhaps the most renowned of all the very early Christian hermits owing to the biography by his friend Athanasius of Alexandria. An antecedent for Egyptian eremiticism may have been the Syrian solitary or \"son of the covenant\" (Aramaic \"bar qəyāmā\") who undertook special disciplines as a Christian. In the Middle Ages some Carmelite hermits claimed to trace their origin to Jewish hermits organized by Elijah.\n\nChristian hermits in the past have often lived in isolated cells or hermitages, whether a natural cave or a constructed dwelling, situated in the desert or the forest. People sometimes sought them out for spiritual advice and counsel. Some eventually acquired so many disciples that they no longer had physical solitude.\n\nThe early Christian Desert Fathers wove baskets to exchange for bread. In medieval times hermits were also found within or near cities where they might earn a living as a gate keeper or ferryman.\n\nFrom the Middle Ages and down to modern times eremitical monasticism has also been practiced within the context of religious institutes in the Christian West. For example, in the Catholic Church the Carthusians and Camaldolese arrange their monasteries as clusters of hermitages where the monks live most of their day and most of their lives in solitary prayer and work, gathering only relatively briefly for communal prayer and only occasionally for community meals and recreation. The Cistercian, Trappist and Carmelite orders, which are essentially communal in nature, allow members who feel a calling to the eremitic life, after years living in the cenobium or community of the monastery, to move to a cell suitable as a hermitage on monastery grounds. This applies to both their monks and their nuns. There have also been many hermits who chose that vocation as an alternative to other forms of monastic life. In the 11th century, the life of the hermit gained recognition as a legitimate independent pathway to salvation. Many hermits in that century and the next came to be regarded as saints.\n\nThe term \"anchorite\" (from the Greek \"anachōreō\", signifying \"to withdraw\", \"to depart into the country outside the circumvallate city\") is often used as a synonym for hermit, not only in the earliest written sources but throughout the centuries. Yet the anchoritic life, while similar to the eremitic life, can also be distinct from it. Anchorites lived the religious life in the solitude of an \"anchorhold\" (or \"anchorage\"), usually a small hut or \"cell\", typically built against a church. The door of an anchorage tended to be bricked up in a special ceremony conducted by the local bishop after the anchorite had moved in. Medieval churches survive that have a tiny window (\"squint\") built into the shared wall near the sanctuary to allow the anchorite to participate in the liturgy by listening to the service and to receive Holy Communion. Another window looked out into the street or cemetery, enabling charitable neighbors to deliver food and other necessities. Clients seeking the anchorite's advice might also use this window to consult them.\n\nCatholics who wish to live in eremitic monasticism may live that vocation as a hermit:\nThere are also lay people who informally follow an eremitic lifestyle and live mostly as solitaries.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, the institutes of consecrated life have their own regulations concerning those of their members who feel called by God to move from the life in community to the eremitic life, and have the permission of their religious superior to do so. The Code of Canon Law (1983) contains no special provisions for them. They technically remain a member of their institute of consecrated life and thus under obedience to their religious superior.\n\nThe Carthusian and Camaldolese orders of monks and nuns preserve their original way of life as essentially eremitical within a cenobitical context, that is, the monasteries of these orders are in fact clusters of individual hermitages where monks and nuns spend their days alone with relatively short periods of prayer in common.\n\nOther orders that are essentially cenobitical, notably the Trappists, maintain a tradition under which individual monks or nuns who have reached a certain level of maturity within the community may pursue a hermit lifestyle on monastery grounds under the supervision of the abbot or abbess. Thomas Merton was among the Trappists who undertook this way of life.\n\nThe earliest form of Christian eremitic or anchoritic living preceded that as a member of a religious institute, since monastic communities and religious institutes are later developments of the monastic life. Today an increasing number of Christian faithful feel again a vocation to live the eremitic life, whether in the remote countryside or in a city in stricter separation from the world, without having passed through life in a monastic community first. Bearing in mind that the meaning of the eremitic vocation is the Desert Theology of the Old Testament (i.e., the 40 years wandering in the desert that was meant to bring about a change of heart), it may be said that the desert of the urban hermit is that of their heart, purged through kenosis to be the dwelling place of God alone.\n\nSo as to provide for men and women who feel a calling to the eremitic or anchoritic life without being or becoming a member of an institute of consecrated life, but desire its recognition by the Roman Catholic Church as a form of consecrated life nonetheless, the Code of Canon Law 1983 legislates in the Section on Consecrated Life (canon 603) as follows:\n\nCanon 603 §2 therefore lays down certain requirements for those who feel a vocation to the kind of eremitic life that is recognized by the Roman Catholic Church as one of the \"other forms of consecrated life\". They usually are referred to as \"diocesan hermits\".\n\nThe norms of canon 603 do not apply to the many other Catholic faithful who live alone and devote themselves to fervent prayer for the love of God without however feeling called by God to seek recognition of their prayerful solitary life from the Roman Catholic Church by entering the consecrated life.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church of 11 October 1992 (§§918–921) comments on the eremitic life as follows:\n\nCatholic Church norms for the consecrated eremitic and anchoritic life (cf. canon 603) do not include corporal works of mercy. Nevertheless, every hermit, like every Christian, is bound by the law of charity and therefore ought to respond generously, as his or her own circumstances permit, when faced with a specific need for corporal works of mercy. Hermits, like every Christian, are also bound by the law of work. If they are not financially independent, they may engage in cottage industries or be employed part-time in jobs that respect the call for them to live in solitude and silence with extremely limited or no contact with other persons. Such outside jobs may not keep them from observing their obligations of the eremitic vocation of stricter separation from the world and the silence of solitude in accordance with canon 603, under which they have made their vow.\n\nAlthough canon 603 makes no provision for associations of hermits, these do exist (for example the \"Hermits of Bethlehem\" in Chester NJ and the \"Hermits of Saint Bruno\" in the US; see also lavra, skete).\n\nNot all the Catholic lay members that feel that it is their vocation to dedicate themselves to God in a prayerful solitary life perceive it as a vocation to some form of consecrated life. An example of this is life as a Poustinik, an Eastern Catholic expression of eremitic living that is finding adherents also in the West.\n\nMany of the recognised religious communities and orders in the Anglican Communion make provision for certain members to live as hermits, more commonly referred to as solitaries. One Church of England community, the Society of St. John the Evangelist, now has only solitaries in its British congregation.\n\nAnglicanism also makes provision for men and women who seek to live a single consecrated life, after taking vows before their local bishop; many who do so live as solitaries. The Handbook of Religious Life, published by the Advisory Council of Relations between Bishops and Religious Communities (ACRBRC), contains an appendix governing the selection, consecration, and management of solitaries living outside recognised religious communities.\n\nIn the Canon Law of the Episcopal Church (United States), those who make application to their diocesan bishop and who persevere in whatever preparatory program the bishop requires, take vows that include lifelong celibacy. They are referred to as solitaries rather than hermits. Each selects a bishop other than their diocesan as an additional spiritual resource and, if necessary, an intermediary.\n\nAt the start of the twenty-first century the Church of England reported a notable increase in the number of applications from people seeking to live the single consecrated life as Anglican hermits or solitaries.\n\nIn the Orthodox Church and Eastern Rite Catholic Churches, hermits live a life not only of prayer but also of service to their community in the traditional Eastern Christian manner of the poustinik. The poustinik is a hermit available to all in need and at all times.\n\nIn the Eastern Christian churches one traditional variation of the Christian eremitic life is the semi-eremitic life in a lavra or skete, exemplified historically in Scetes, a place in the Egyptian desert, and continued in various sketes today including several regions on Mount Athos.\n\n\nMembers of religious orders:\n\nDiocesan hermits according to canon 603:\n\nOthers:\n\nFrom a religious point of view, the solitary life is a form of asceticism, wherein the hermit renounces worldly concerns and pleasures. This can be done for many reasons, including: to come closer to the deity or deities they worship or revere, to devote one's energies to self-liberation from saṃsāra, etc. This practice appears also in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Sufism. Taoism also has a long history of ascetic and eremitical figures. In the ascetic eremitic life, the hermit seeks solitude for meditation, contemplation, prayer, self-awareness and personal development on physical and mental levels; without the distractions of contact with human society, sex, or the need to maintain socially acceptable standards of cleanliness, dress or communication. The ascetic discipline can also include a simplified diet and/or manual labor as a means of support.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "36929712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36929712", "title": "Hossam El-Gheriany", "text": "Hossam El-Gheriany\n\nHossam El-Gheriany (born 1941) is an Egyptian judge. Winning recognition as a champion of judicial independence in the regime of President Mubarak, he became head of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Court of Cassation. Today he also heads the Constituent Assembly of Egypt and is president of the National Council for Human Rights.\n\nBorn in Sharqiya Governorate in the Nile Delta, Hossam El-Gheriany gained a BA in law from the University of Alexandria in 1962. He worked for the public prosecutor's office for twelve years, witnessing Nasser's 1969 attack on the judiciary. He became a judge in 1974. Gaining varied experience as a judge - including two years in Libya and some time in the United Arab Emirates - he became a chancellor in Egypt's Court of Cassation in 1986.\n\nIn 1986 Hossam El-Gheriany, Yahya al-Refai and Ahmed Mekky organized a conference, attended by President Mubarak, calling for the independence of the judiciary. In 2005 he wrote a report criticizing illegal interventions by the government in amending the way the president is elected. He criticized Mubarak for rigging the referendum over the multi-candidate presidential election of 2005, as well as the subsequent parliamentary election. After Mubarak's regime referred two judges to a disciplinary board for their \"outspoken criticism\", Gheriani mobilized judges in their support.\n\nElected to the Constituent Assembly of Egypt, Gheriany was nominated president of the assembly at its first meeting on 18 June 2012. A week later he threatened resignation, holding and winning a vote of confidence on his Constituent Assembly presidency. In September 2012 the Shura Council appointed Gheriany President of the National Council for Human Rights.\n"}
{"id": "15308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15308", "title": "Ian McKellen", "text": "Ian McKellen\n\nSir Ian Murray McKellen (born 25 May 1939) is an English actor. He is the recipient of six Laurence Olivier Awards, a Tony Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, a BIF Award, two Saturn Awards, four Drama Desk Awards, and two Critics' Choice Awards. He has also received two Oscar nominations, four BAFTA nominations and five Emmy Award nominations.\n\nMcKellen's career spans genres ranging from Shakespearean and modern theatre to popular fantasy and science fiction. The BBC states that his \"performances have guaranteed him a place in the canon of English stage and film actors\". A recipient of every major theatrical award in the UK, McKellen is regarded as a British cultural icon. He started his professional career in 1961 at the Belgrade Theatre as a member of their highly regarded repertory company. In 1965, McKellen made his first West End appearance. In 1969, he was invited to join the Prospect Theatre Company to play the lead parts in Shakespeare's \"Richard II\" and Marlowe's \"Edward II\", and he firmly established himself as one of the country's foremost classical actors. In the 1970s, McKellen became a stalwart of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theatre of Great Britain. He achieved worldwide fame for his film roles, including the titular King in \"Richard III\" (1995), James Whale in \"Gods and Monsters\" (1998), Magneto in the \"X-Men\" films, and Gandalf in \"The Lord of the Rings\" and \"The Hobbit\" trilogies.\n\nMcKellen was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 1979 Birthday Honours, was knighted in the 1991 New Year Honours for services to the performing arts, and made a Companion of Honour for services to drama and to equality in the 2008 New Year Honours. He has been openly gay since 1988, and continues to be a champion for LGBT social movements worldwide. He was awarded Freedom of the City of London in October 2014.\n\nMcKellen was born on 25 May 1939 in Burnley, Lancashire, the son of Margery Lois (née Sutcliffe) and Denis Murray McKellen, a civil engineer. He was their second child, with a sister, Jean, five years his senior. Shortly before the outbreak of the Second World War in September 1939, his family moved to Wigan. They lived there until Ian was twelve years old, before relocating to Bolton in 1951, after his father had been promoted. The experience of living through the war as a young child had a lasting impact on him, and he later said that \"only after peace resumed ... did I realise that war wasn't normal.\" When an interviewer remarked that he seemed quite calm in the aftermath of 11 September attacks, McKellen said: \"Well, darling, you forget—I slept under a steel plate until I was four years old.\".\n\nMcKellen's father was a civil engineer and lay preacher, and was of Protestant Irish and Scottish descent. Both of McKellen's grandfathers were preachers, and his great-great-grandfather, James McKellen, was a \"strict, evangelical Protestant minister\" in Ballymena, County Antrim. His home environment was strongly Christian, but non-orthodox. \"My upbringing was of low nonconformist Christians who felt that you led the Christian life in part by behaving in a Christian manner to everybody you met.\" When he was 12, his mother died of breast cancer; his father died when he was 24. After his coming out as gay to his stepmother, Gladys McKellen, who was a member of the Religious Society of Friends, he said, \"Not only was she not fazed, but as a member of a society which declared its indifference to people's sexuality years back, I think she was just glad for my sake that I wasn't lying anymore.\" His great-great-grandfather Robert J. Lowes was an activist and campaigner in the ultimately successful campaign for a Saturday half-holiday in Manchester, the forerunner to the modern five-day work week, thus making Lowes a \"grandfather of the modern weekend\".\n\nMcKellen attended Bolton School (Boys' Division), of which he is still a supporter, attending regularly to talk to pupils. McKellen's acting career started at Bolton Little Theatre, of which he is now the patron. An early fascination with the theatre was encouraged by his parents, who took him on a family outing to \"Peter Pan\" at the Opera House in Manchester when he was three. When he was nine, his main Christmas present was a fold-away wood and bakelite Victorian theatre from Pollocks Toy Theatres, with cardboard scenery and wires to push on the cut-outs of Cinderella and of Laurence Olivier's Hamlet.\n\nHis sister took him to his first Shakespeare play, \"Twelfth Night\", by the amateurs of Wigan's Little Theatre, shortly followed by their \"Macbeth\" and Wigan High School for Girls' production of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", with music by Mendelssohn, with the role of Bottom played by Jean McKellen, who continued to act, direct, and produce amateur theatre until her death.\n\nIn 1958, McKellen, at the age of 18, won a scholarship to St Catharine's College, Cambridge, where he read English literature. He has since been made an Honorary Fellow of the College. While at Cambridge, McKellen was a member of the Marlowe Society, where he appeared in 23 plays over the course of 3 years. At that young age he was already giving performances that have since become legendary such as his Justice Shallow in \"Henry IV\" alongside Trevor Nunn and Derek Jacobi (March 1959), \"Cymbeline\" (as Posthumus, opposite Margaret Drabble as Imogen) and \"Doctor Faustus\". During this period McKellen had already been directed by Peter Hall, John Barton and Dadie Rylands, all of whom would have a huge impact on McKellen's future career.\n\nMcKellen made his first professional appearance in 1961 at the Belgrade Theatre, as Roper in \"A Man for All Seasons\", although an audio recording of the Marlowe Society's \"Cymbeline\" had gone on commercial sale as part of the Argo Shakespeare series.\n\nAfter four years in regional repertory theatres he made his first West End appearance, in \"A Scent of Flowers\", regarded as a \"notable success\". In 1965 he was a member of Laurence Olivier's National Theatre Company at the Old Vic, which led to roles at the Chichester Festival. With the Prospect Theatre Company, McKellen made his breakthrough performances of Richard II (directed by Richard Cottrell) and Marlowe's Edward II (directed by Toby Robertson) at the Edinburgh festival in 1969, the latter causing a storm of protest over the enactment of the homosexual Edward's lurid death.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s McKellen became a well-known figure in British theatre, performing frequently at the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National Theatre, where he played several leading Shakespearean roles, including the title role in \"Macbeth\" (which he had first played for Trevor Nunn in a \"gripping...out of the ordinary\" production, with Judi Dench, at Stratford in 1976), and Iago in \"Othello\", in award-winning productions directed by Nunn. Both of these productions were adapted into television films, also directed by Nunn.\n\nIn 2007 he returned to the Royal Shakespeare Company, in productions of \"King Lear\" and \"The Seagull\", both directed by Trevor Nunn. In 2009 he appeared in a very popular revival of \"Waiting for Godot\" at London's Haymarket Theatre, directed by Sean Mathias, and playing opposite Patrick Stewart. He is Patron of English Touring Theatre and also President and Patron of the Little Theatre Guild of Great Britain, an association of amateur theatre organisations throughout the UK. In late August 2012, he took part in the opening ceremony of the London Paralympics, portraying Prospero from \"The Tempest\".\n\nIn October 2017, McKellen played King Lear at Chichester Festival Theatre, a role which he said was likely to be his \"last big Shakespearean part\". He will perform the play at the Duke of York's Theatre in London's West End during the summer of 2018.\n\nMcKellen had taken film roles throughout his career—beginning in 1969 with his role of George Matthews in \"A Touch of Love\", and his first leading role was in 1980 as D. H. Lawrence in \"Priest of Love\", but it was not until the 1990s that he became more widely recognised in this medium after several roles in blockbuster Hollywood films. In 1993 he had a supporting role as a South African tycoon in the critically acclaimed \"Six Degrees of Separation\", in which he starred with Stockard Channing, Donald Sutherland, and Will Smith. In the same year, he appeared in minor roles in the television miniseries \"Tales of the City\", based on the novel by his friend Armistead Maupin, and the film \"Last Action Hero\", in which he briefly played Death opposite Arnold Schwarzenegger and Charles Dance.\n\nLater in 1993, McKellen appeared in the television film \"And the Band Played On\" about the discovery of the AIDS virus for which McKellen won a CableACE Award for Supporting Actor in a Movie or Miniseries and was nominated for the Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or a Movie. In 1995, he played the title role in \"Richard III\", which transported the setting into an alternative 1930s in which England is ruled by fascists. The film was a critical success. McKellen co-produced and co-wrote the film, adapting the play for the screen based on a stage production of Shakespeare's play directed by Richard Eyre for the Royal National Theatre in which McKellen had appeared. As executive producer he returned his £50,000 fee to complete the filming of the final battle. In his review of the film, \"The Washington Post\" film critic Hal Hinson called McKellen's performance a \"lethally flamboyant incarnation\" and said his \"florid mastery ... dominates everything\". His performance in the title role garnered BAFTA and Golden Globe nominations for Best Actor and won the European Film Award for Best Actor. His screenplay was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.\nHe appeared in the modestly acclaimed film \"Apt Pupil\", which was directed by Bryan Singer and based on a story by Stephen King. McKellen portrayed a fugitive Nazi officer living under a false name in the US who is befriended by a curious teenager (Brad Renfro) who threatens to expose him unless he tells his story in detail. He was subsequently nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the 1998 film \"Gods and Monsters\", wherein he played James Whale, the director of \"Show Boat\" (1936) and \"Frankenstein\".\n\nIn 1999 McKellen was cast, again under the direction of Bryan Singer, to play the comic book supervillain Magneto in the 2000 film \"X-Men\" and its sequels \"X2: X-Men United\" (2003) and \"\" (2006). He later made a short appearance as an older Magneto in 2014's \"\", sharing the role with Michael Fassbender, who played a younger version of the character in 2011's \"\".\n\nWhile filming the first \"X-Men\" film in 1999, McKellen was cast as the wizard Gandalf in Peter Jackson's three-film adaptation of \"The Lord of the Rings\" (consisting of \"\" (2001), \"\" (2002), and \"\" (2003) ). He received honors from the Screen Actors Guild for Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture for his work in \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for the same role. He provided the voice of Gandalf for several video game adaptations of the \"Lord of the Rings\" films, then reprised the role on screen in Jackson's film adaptation of \"The Hobbit\", which was released in three parts from 2012 to 2014.\n\nOn 16 March 2002, he hosted \"Saturday Night Live\". In 2003, McKellen made a guest appearance as himself on the American cartoon show \"The Simpsons\" in a special British-themed episode entitled \"The Regina Monologues\", along with the then UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and author J. K. Rowling. In April and May 2005, he played the role of Mel Hutchwright in Granada Television's long running British soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", fulfilling a lifelong ambition. He narrated Richard Bell's film \"Eighteen\" as a grandfather who leaves his World War II memoirs on audio-cassette for his teenage grandson.\n\nMcKellen has appeared in limited release films, such as \"Emile\" (which was shot in three weeks following the \"X2\" shoot), \"Neverwas\" and \"Asylum\". He appeared as Sir Leigh Teabing in \"The Da Vinci Code\". During a 17 May 2006 interview on \"The Today Show\" with the \"Da Vinci Code\" cast and director, Matt Lauer posed a question to the group about how they would have felt if the film had borne a prominent disclaimer that it is a work of fiction, as some religious groups wanted. McKellen responded, \"I've often thought the Bible should have a disclaimer in the front saying 'This is fiction.' I mean, walking on water? It takes... an act of faith. And I have faith in this movie – not that it's true, not that it's factual, but that it's a jolly good story.\" He continued, \"And I think audiences are clever enough and bright enough to separate out fact and fiction, and discuss the thing when they've seen it\". McKellen appeared in the 2006 BBC series of Ricky Gervais' comedy series \"Extras\", where he played himself directing Gervais' character Andy Millman in a play about gay lovers. McKellen received a 2007 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor - Comedy Series nomination for his performance. In 2009 he portrayed Number Two in \"The Prisoner\", a remake of the 1967 cult series \"The Prisoner\". In 2013, McKellen co-starred in the ITV sitcom \"Vicious\" as Freddie Thornhill, alongside Derek Jacobi. The series revolves around an elderly gay couple who have been together for 50 years. On 23 August 2013 the show was renewed for a six-episode second series which began airing in June 2015.\n\nIn November 2013, McKellen appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" 50th anniversary comedy homage \"The Five(ish) Doctors Reboot\". In October 2015, McKellen appeared as Norman to Anthony Hopkins' Sir in a BBC Two production of Ronald Harwood's \"The Dresser\", alongside Edward Fox and Emily Watson. In 2017, McKellen voiced Cogsworth, the Beast's loyal majordomo, who was turned into a pendulum clock, in a live-action adaptation of Disney's \"Beauty and the Beast\".\n\nMcKellen and his first partner, Brian Taylor, a history teacher from Bolton, began their relationship in 1964. Their relationship lasted for eight years, ending in 1972. They lived in London, where McKellen continued to pursue his career as an actor. For over a decade, he has lived in a five-storey Victorian conversion in Narrow Street, Limehouse. In 1978 he met his second partner, Sean Mathias, at the Edinburgh Festival. This relationship lasted until 1988, and according to Mathias, was tempestuous, with conflicts over McKellen's success in acting versus Mathias's somewhat less-successful career. Mathias later directed McKellen in \"Waiting for Godot\" at the Theatre Royal Haymarket in 2009. The pair entered into a business partnership with Evgeny Lebedev, purchasing the lease of The Grapes public house in Narrow Street.\n\nMcKellen is an atheist. In the late 1980s, McKellen lost his appetite for meat except for fish, and has since followed a mainly pescetarian diet. In 2001, Ian McKellen received the Artist Citizen of the World Award (France).\n\nHe has a tattoo of the Elvish number nine, written using J. R. R Tolkien's Constructed script of Tengwar, on his shoulder in reference to his involvement in the \"Lord of the Rings\" and the fact that his character was one of the original nine companions of the Fellowship of the Ring. The other actors of \"The Fellowship\" (Elijah Wood, Sean Astin, Orlando Bloom, Billy Boyd, Sean Bean, Dominic Monaghan and Viggo Mortensen) have the same tattoo. John Rhys-Davies, whose character was also one of the original nine companions, arranged for his stunt double to get the tattoo instead.\n\nHe was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2006. In 2012, McKellen stated on his blog that \"There is no cause for alarm. I am examined regularly and the cancer is contained. I've not needed any treatment.\"\n\nHe became an ordained minister of the Universal Life Church in early 2013 in order to preside over the marriage of his friend and \"X-Men\" co-star Patrick Stewart to the singer Sunny Ozell.\n\nMcKellen was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Letters by Cambridge University on 18 June 2014. He was made a Freeman of the city of London on Thursday 30 October 2014. The ceremony took place at Guildhall in London. McKellen was nominated by London's Lord Mayor Fiona Woolf, who said he was chosen as he was an \"exceptional actor\" and \"tireless campaigner for equality\". He is also a Fellow of St Catherine's College, Oxford.\n\nWhile McKellen had made his sexual orientation known to fellow actors early on in his stage career, it was not until 1988 that he came out to the general public, in a programme on BBC Radio. The context that prompted McKellen's decision – overriding any concerns about a possible negative effect on his career – was that the controversial Section 28 of the Local Government Bill, known simply as Section 28, was then under consideration in the British Parliament. Section 28 proposed prohibiting local authorities from promoting homosexuality \"... as a kind of pretended family relationship\". McKellen became active in fighting the proposed law, and, during a BBC Radio 3 programme where he debated Section 28 with the conservative journalist Peregrine Worsthorne, declared himself gay. McKellen has stated that he was influenced in his decision by the advice and support of his friends, among them noted gay author Armistead Maupin. In a 1998 interview that discusses the 29th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, McKellen commented, I have many regrets about not having come out earlier, but one of them might be that I didn't engage myself in the politicking. He has said of this period: My own participating in that campaign was a focus for people [to] take comfort that if Ian McKellen was on board for this, perhaps it would be all right for other people to be as well, gay and straight. Section 28 was, however, enacted and remained on the statute books until 2000 in Scotland and 2003 in England and Wales. Section 28 never applied in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 2003, during an appearance on \"Have I Got News For You\", McKellen claimed when he visited Michael Howard, then Environment Secretary (responsible for local government), in 1988 to lobby against Section 28, Howard refused to change his position but did ask him to leave an autograph for his children. McKellen agreed, but wrote, \"Fuck off, I'm gay.\" McKellen described Howard's junior ministers, Conservatives David Wilshire and Dame Jill Knight, who were the architects of Section 28, as the 'ugly sisters' of a political pantomime.\n\nMcKellen has continued to be very active in LGBT rights efforts. In a statement on his website regarding his activism, the actor commented that:\nMcKellen is a co-founder of Stonewall, an LGBT rights lobby group in the United Kingdom, named after the Stonewall riots. McKellen is also patron of LGBT History Month, Pride London, Oxford Pride, GAY-GLOS, The Lesbian & Gay Foundation, and FFLAG where he appears in their video \"Parents Talking\".\n\nIn 1994, at the closing ceremony of the Gay Games, he briefly took the stage to address the crowd, saying, \"I'm Sir Ian McKellen, but you can call me Serena\": This nickname, given to him by Stephen Fry, had been circulating within the gay community since McKellen's knighthood was conferred. In 2002, he was the Celebrity Grand Marshal of the San Francisco Pride Parade and he attended the Academy Awards with his then-boyfriend, New Zealander Nick Cuthell. In 2006, McKellen spoke at the pre-launch of the 2007 LGBT History Month in the UK, lending his support to the organisation and its founder, Sue Sanders. In 2007, he became a patron of The Albert Kennedy Trust, an organisation that provides support to young, homeless and troubled LGBT people.\n\nIn 2006, he became a patron of Oxford Pride, stating:I send my love to all members of Oxford Pride, their sponsors and supporters, of which I am proud to be one... Onlookers can be impressed by our confidence and determination to be ourselves and gay people, of whatever age, can be comforted by the occasion to take the first steps towards coming out and leaving the closet forever behind.\n\nMcKellen has taken his activism internationally, and caused a major stir in Singapore, where he was invited to do an interview on a morning show and shocked the interviewer by asking if they could recommend him a gay bar; the programme immediately ended. In December 2008, he was named in \"Out\" annual Out 100 list.\n\nIn 2010, McKellen extended his support for Liverpool's Homotopia festival in which a group of gay and lesbian Merseyside teenagers helped to produce an anti-homophobia campaign pack for schools and youth centres across the city. In May 2011, he called Sergey Sobyanin, Moscow's mayor, a \"coward\" for refusing to allow gay parades in the city.\n\nIn 2014, he was named in the top 10 on the World Pride Power list.\n\nIn April 2010, along with actors Brian Cox and Eleanor Bron, McKellen appeared in a series of TV advertisements to support Age UK, the charity recently formed from the merger of Age Concern and Help the Aged. All three actors gave their time free of charge.\n\nA cricket fan since childhood, McKellen umpired in March 2011 for a charity cricket match in New Zealand to support earthquake victims of the February 2011 Christchurch earthquake.\n\nMcKellen is an honorary board member for the New York and Washington, DC based organization Only Make Believe. Only Make Believe creates and performs interactive plays in children's hospitals and care facilities. He was honoured by the organisation in 2012 and hosted their annual Make Believe on Broadway Gala in November 2013. He garnered publicity for the organisation by stripping down to his Lord of the Rings underwear on stage.\n\nMcKellen also has a history of supporting individual theatres. While in New Zealand filming \"The Hobbit\" in 2012, he announced a special New Zealand tour \"Shakespeare, Tolkien, and You!\", with proceeds going to help save the Isaac Theatre Royal, which suffered extensive damage during the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. McKellen said he opted to help save the building as it was the last theatre he played in New Zealand (\"Waiting for Godot\" in 2010) and the locals' love for it made it a place worth supporting. In July 2017, he performed a new one-man show for a week at Park Theatre (London), donating the proceeds to the theatre.\n\nA friend of Ian Charleson and an admirer of his work, McKellen contributed an entire chapter to \"For Ian Charleson: A Tribute\". A recording of McKellen's voice is heard before performances at the Royal Festival Hall, reminding patrons to ensure their mobile phones and watch alarms are switched off and to keep coughing to a minimum. He also took part in the 2012 Summer Paralympics opening ceremony in London as Prospero from Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\".\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "14031510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14031510", "title": "Islam Timurziev", "text": "Islam Timurziev\n\nIslam Yahyayevich Timurziev (; 9 January 1983 – 31 August 2015) was an Ingush amateur boxer from Russia best known for winning the European superheavyweight title in 2006.\n\nBorn in Nazran, Ingushetia, Timurziev started boxing in 1996. He is a skilled offensive fighter with impressive power in both hands but has defensive weaknesses. He won the U-17 European Championship in 1999, and the Junior European Championships in 2001.\n\nHe added the military world title in 2003, and won the 2004 Russian national title, but only after he helped his national team winning the Nations World Cup by beating Cuban Odlanier Solis (Olympic Champion at 201 lbs) on points. Later that year he was out with cancer, his compatriot Roman Romanchuk participated in the world championships.\n\nIn 2006, Timurziev made a comeback claiming the European title with wins over Roberto Cammarelle, Kubrat Pulev and Robert Helenius.\nAt the World Cup in Baku, Timurziev was pulled out by his corner in a rematch by his nemesis Odlanier Solis. This also granted Cuba a 6-5 win of the cup.\n\nTimurziev was in bad form early on in 2007, losing in the Russian championships against the unsung Denis Sergeev (19:22).\n\nBut at the 2007 World Amateur Boxing Championships in Chicago he reached the semi-finals among others with several first round wins and a points victory over American Michael Hunter. He was unable to advance further, suffering from acute appendicitis, thus granting Roberto Cammarelle a win on walkover, and earning the bronze medal.\n\nTimurziev was regarded as the favorite at the 2008 Beijing Olympics in his weightclass as the Cubans were lacking a star in this class after Solis had defected. He was defeated though by Great Britain's David Price through a knockout in the second round.\n\nHe died in hospital of sepsis on 31 August 2015, following a long illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "58481047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58481047", "title": "Issa Kostoyev", "text": "Issa Kostoyev\n\nIssa Magomatovich Kostoyev (; born August 8, 1942) is a Russian government attorney and bureaucrat. He was the representative in the Federation Council from the executive body of state power of the Republic of Ingushetia (2002–2009), and a member of the Federation Council Committee on Defense and Security and Commission on Natural Monopolies. State Counselor of Justice 2 classes.\n\nHe graduated from Al-Farabi Kazakh National University with a specialty in jurisprudence. \n\nKostoyev began working in the prosecutor's offices of North Ossetia, the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, the prosecutor's office of the USSR and the Prosecutor General's Office of the Russian Federation. He headed investigative groups that engaged in the search for Rostov maniac Andrei Chikatilo and Smolensk maniac .\n\nHe supports the death penalty for serial killers and pedophiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47433016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47433016", "title": "J. R. Kealoha", "text": "J. R. Kealoha\n\nJ. R. Kealoha (died March 5, 1877) was an American Union Army soldier of Native Hawaiian descent. Considered one of the \"Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War\", he was among a group of more than one hundred documented Native Hawaiian and Hawaiʻi-born combatants who fought in the American Civil War while the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi was still an independent nation.\n\nKealoha enlisted in the 41st United States Colored Infantry, a USC regiment formed in Pennsylvania. Participating in the Siege of Petersburg, he and another Hawaiian soldier met the Hawaiʻi-born Colonel Samuel Chapman Armstrong, who recorded their encounter in a letter home. With the 41st USCT, Kealoha was present at the surrender of Confederate General Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. After the war, Kealoha returned to Hawaiʻi. He died on March 5, 1877, and was buried in an unmarked grave in Honolulu's Oʻahu Cemetery.\n\nThe legacy and contributions of Kealoha and other Hawaiian participants in the American Civil War were largely forgotten except in the private circles of descendants and historians, but in later years there was a revival of interest in the Hawaiian community. In 2010, these \"Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War\" were commemorated with a bronze plaque erected along the memorial pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu. In 2014, through another local effort, a grave marker was dedicated over J. R. Kealoha's burial site, which had remained unmarked for 137 years.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the American Civil War, the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi under King Kamehameha IV declared its neutrality on August 26, 1861. Many Native Hawaiians and Hawaiʻi-born Americans (mainly descendants of American missionaries) abroad and in the islands volunteered and enlisted in the military regiments of various states in the Union and the Confederacy. Native Hawaiians participating in the American wars during its period of independence was not unheard of. Individual Native Hawaiians had served in the United States Navy and Army since the War of 1812, and even more served during the American Civil War. Many Hawaiians sympathized with the Union because of Hawaiʻi's ties to New England through its missionaries and the whaling industries, and the ideological opposition of many to the institution of slavery.\n\nNothing is known about the life of J. R. Kealoha before the war. He enlisted in 1864 as a private and was assigned to the 41st Regiment United States Colored Troops (USCT), a colored regiment formed in Camp William Penn, Pennsylvania, between September 30 and December 7, 1864, under the command of Colonel Llewellyn F. Haskell. Most Native Hawaiians who participated in the war were assigned to the colored regiments because of their dark skin color and the segregationist policy in the military at the time. Kealoha is one of the few Hawaiian soldiers of the Civil War whose real name is known; many combatants served under anglicized pseudonyms because they were easier for English-speaking Americans to pronounce than Hawaiian language names. They were often registered as \"kanakas\", the 19th-century term for Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders, with the \"Sandwich Islands\" (Hawaiʻi) noted as their place of origin.\n\nFrom October 1864 to April 1865, Kealoha fought in the Richmond–Petersburg Campaign, better known as the Siege of Petersburg. During the campaign, Kealoha and another Hawaiian named Kaiwi, of the 28th Regiment United States Colored Troops, came across Samuel Chapman Armstrong, a son of an American missionary and a native of Maui. Armstrong wrote of the encounter in a letter home that was later published in the Hawaiian missionary newspaper \"The Friend\" in 1865:\nYesterday, as my orderly was holding my horse, I asked him where he was from. He said he was from Hawaii! He proved to be a full-blood Kanaka, by the name of Kealoha, who came from the Islands last year. There is also another, by the name of Kaiwi, who lived near Judge Smith's, who left the Islands last July. I enjoyed seeing them very much and we had a good jabber in kanaka. Kealoha is a private in the 41st Regiment US Colored Troops, and Kaiwi is a Private in the 28th U.S.C.T., in the pioneer corps. Both are good men and seemed glad to have seen me.\n\nKealoha survived months of trench warfare during the Richmond-Petersburg Campaign and fought with the 41st USCT at the Battle of Appomattox Court House; he was present at the surrender of Confederate General Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. The 41st USCT regiment was mustered out of service on November 10, 1865, at Brownsville, Texas, and was discharged December 14, 1865, at Philadelphia. Kealoha's enlistment of service is not present in any existing records or history from the 41st USCT regiment. Historians Justin Vance and Anita Manning speculate that \"it is possible that his service is noted under a different name\" or his name was never recorded because only the muster-out rolls from the regiment were returned to the Adjutant General's office after the unit disbanded.\n\nAfter the war, Kealoha returned to Hawaiʻi. He died on March 5, 1877, and was buried with eighteen other Native Hawaiians in an unmarked grave in Section 1, Lot 56 of the Oʻahu Cemetery, Honolulu. During the Hawaii Territorial period, Kealoha's Civil War service was recorded by the United Veterans Service Council (UVSC), a precursor of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), which included his name in their records as a \"Deceased Veteran\" and listed the location of his burial.\n\nFor 137 years, Kealoha's burial site remained unmarked until a Hawaiian group affiliated with the organization Hawaiʻi Civil War Round Table, consisting of Anita Manning, Nanette Napoleon, Eric Mueller, and Justin Vance, started an effort to give him a grave marker. Historian Anita Manning, a member of this group, had discovered the records containing Kealoha's name at the Hawaii State Archives in 2011. It listed his service in the war and the location of his burial place, but when Manning went to the site of his grave, she was disappointed by the absence of a headstone. Giving the reason for the significance of Kealoha's service, Manning stated:\n\nKealoha represents many Hawaiian men and men from Hawaii who served in the Civil War who knew what they were getting into, who took a risk, and we all are the beneficiaries of that work and risk that they took ... We owe it to them to recognize that service.\n\nThe group petitioned the United States Department of Veterans Affairs for a marker for Kealoha but the Department denied the request because there was no next of kin to approve the request. A 2009 policy change enacted in 2012 required that only next of kin could request VA memorials. After the request's denial, Honor Life Memorials, a local monument maker, donated a granite marker for Kealoha.\n\nThe marker was formally dedicated and unveiled on October 25, 2014. Dressed in period costumes, members of the Hawaiʻi Civil War Round Table and others took part in the dedication ceremony at Oʻahu Cemetery. The ceremony was marked by military honors and a gun salute by a unit of Civil War re-enactors. Hawaiian minister Kahu Silva presided over the dedication ceremony, and in accordance with traditional Hawaiian customs, the consecrated marker was adorned with a sacred \"maile lei\" and a \"koa\" branch, representing \"Kealoha's noble qualities of bravery, courage and valor.\" The marker is inscribed with his name, regiment, death date, and the Hawaiian and English text: \"He Koa Hanohano, a brave and honorable soldier\".\n\nOther Hawaiian veterans of the Civil War are honored in Honolulu's National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific with a bronze memorial plaque that was erected in 2010 in recognition of the \"Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War\", the more than one hundred documented Hawaiians who served with the Union and the Confederacy. As of 2014, researchers have identified 119 documented Hawaiian and Hawaiʻi-born combatants from historical records. The exact number remains unclear because of the lack of records. Of the 48 identified Native Hawaiian combatants, including James Wood Bush and Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman, Kealoha is the only one buried in Hawaii whose gravesite is known. According to Hawaiian news reporter Chelsea Davis, Kealoha has come to \"represents all the men of Hawaii who took up arms in America's Civil War but who have been forgotten.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36366225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36366225", "title": "Jabez Huntington (colonist)", "text": "Jabez Huntington (colonist)\n\nJabez Huntington (7 August 1719 – 5 October 1786) was a merchant and politician from Connecticut Colony.\n\nJabez Huntington graduated from Yale in 1741, engaged in the West India trade, and amassed a fortune. After 1759 he was frequently a member of the legislature, speaker for several years, and also a member of the council. At the beginning of the American Revolutionary War, he owned a large amount of shipping, and lost heavily by the capture of his vessels. He was among the most active on the committee of safety during the war; and in the September 1776 session of the Connecticut assembly he and David Wooster were appointed Major Generals. On the death of Wooster in 1777 Jabez was placed in charge of the entire Connecticut militia. His great exertions in the patriot cause and his heavy losses impaired his physical and mental powers, and he was thus compelled to resign his employments in 1779.\n\nJabez was born on 7 Aug 1719 in Norwich, Connecticut to Joshua and Hannah (Perkins) Huntington. He married first Elizabeth (20 Jan 1741 - 1 Jul 1745), the daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth (Tracy) Backus. They had two children, Jedediah in 1743, and Andrew who was born the month before his mother's death. He married his second wife, Hannah Williams (23 Jul 1726 - 25 Mar 1807) of Pomfret, Connecticut, on 10 Jul 1746. They had six children: Joshua, Hannah (died at age eight), Ebenezer, Elizabeth, Mary, and Zachariah. Jabez died on 5 Oct 1786 at Norwich.\n\nJabez's son Jedidiah Huntington also served in the American Revolution, and after it was over was collector of customs at New London, Connecticut, for many years.\n\nJabez's son, Andrew Huntington (born 21 June 1745; died 7 April 1824) engaged in commercial pursuits, and in 1795 was a manufacturer of paper at the falls of Norwich. He was judge of probate in his district in 1813. During the American Revolution he was a commissary of brigade.\n\nJabez's son Joshua Huntington (born in Norwich, 16 August 1751) began business with his father. After the Battle of Lexington, he commanded a company of 100 men of the town, and joined Putnam's brigade. Subsequently, he was ordered by the Continental Congress to build a frigate of 36 guns, which was constructed in the Thames at Gale's Ferry in 1777.\n\nJabez's son Ebenezer Huntington served in the American Revolution and then became a member of the United States House of Representatives from Connecticut.\n"}
{"id": "38858144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38858144", "title": "Justin Meyer", "text": "Justin Meyer\n\nJustin Meyer (born Raymond Meyer, 11 November 19386 August 2002) was an American vintner, enologist, and monk of the Christian Brothers. He was the founder along with Ray Duncan of Silver Oak Cellars in 1972, a successful winery based in the Napa Valley and Alexander Valley. Today Duncan's sons David Duncan and Tim Duncan run Silver Oak Cellars, as well as Twomey Cellars, established in 1999. Meyer sold his share of the company to Duncan in 2001. One of California's top wine experts, he was President of the American Vineyard Foundation in the 1990s and also held numerous other positions in the wine industry. The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" cites Meyer as \"one of the legends of the Napa Valley\".\n\nMeyer was born Raymond Meyer on 11 November 1938 in Bakersfield, California. Just out of high school, he became a monk of the Christian Brothers, and changed his first name to Justin. He taught Spanish at a Christian Brothers high school in Sacramento and in 1964 was apprenticed to winemaker Brother Timothy at their winery, Greystone Cellars, in St. Helena, California in the Napa Valley. At one point the Christian Brothers ran 6 wineries and were the largest brandy producers in the world according to Meyer.\n\nHe left the Christian Brothers in 1972, and became president of V&E Consulting and Management Company. That year, Meyer met Colorado entrepreneur Ray Duncan who had purchased a 750 acre plot of land in the Napa Valley of northern California, which was formerly the Oakville Dairy farm, as an investment in growing and selling grapes. Meyer, a winemaker who was a monk of the Christian Brothers religious order, formed an agreement, with Duncan, setting up a winery on the Christian Brother's site in St. Helena. Meyer would provide his winemaking, cultivation and Californian market expertise while Duncan provided the financial backing.\n\nThe pair bottled their first vintage Cabernet Sauvignon in 1972, aging the wine in the old Keig Dairy barn on the original plot of land Duncan purchased. They made the decision to produce only Cabernet Sauvignon and to attempt to produce the finest in the world, to age the wine exclusively in American oak barrels. Meyer said of the reason for deciding to concentrate on one wine, \"it was kind of a reaction to my days at Christian Brothers, where we made so many wines it was hard to do them all right, and it was kind of in keeping with what I thought — that Cabernets were what Napa and Sonoma did best, so why not devote our attention to that. This is a pretty common concept in France.\" According to noted wine critic Robert Parker, Meyer always believed in harvesting ripe, physiologically mature fruit. In answer to the question of why Silver Oak insists upon aging their wines in American oak barrels, Meyer once said, \"I'm happy with a cellar of about 65 degrees. Aging is speeded up by heat and slowed down by cold, but the only thing I do to modify my cellar is drink it faster... To my palate, American oak imparts less wood tannin than French oak. I like tannic wine about as much as I like tough steak.\"\n\nMeyer and Duncan made their first three vintages at the Christian Brothers winery, and in 1975 bought the Franciscan Winery, selling it in 1978 to buy the Silver Oak winery near Oakville and buying up new land. The Silver Oak winery began production in 1981 and the 1982 harvest was considered by Meyer to be \"something special\" and was attempted to be replicated in later years. Growth of the company from 1977 onwards enabled Silver Oak to purchase further vineyards in the 1980s and early 1990s, becoming one of the most successful Cabernet Sauvignon brands. By the 1994 vintage, the concept changed and the Silver Oak Napa became a blend of Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet Franc, Merlot and Petit Verdot, but still aged solely in American oak, a California take on the classic Bordeaux chateau-bottled red wine. Meyer was President of the American Vineyard Foundation in the 1990s, and also held several other important positions in the wine industry. He breathed new life into the flailing American Vineyard Foundation from the late 1980s; \"Wines and Vines\" stated that Meyer's most important contribution will be his influence in bringing growers and winemakers together to shape the very future of California wine.\" He trained Daniel Baron extensively to replace himself as Silver Oak's chief winemaker. In the late 1990s, he was diagnosed with Type-2 Diabetes and a degenerative brain disease. In January 2001, he sold his share of the company to Ray Duncan, citing health problems, but continued as a consulting winemaker until his death in August 2002. Meyer once said \"Only one wine can be your best, and I felt that cabernet was what we did best in Napa and Sonoma\".\n\nMeyer died of a heart attack at the age of 63 while on vacation in the Sierra Nevada mountains near Lake Tahoe on August 6, 2002. A memorial service was held at Silver Oak four days later.\n\nUpon his death, Jim Wolpert, the head of the department of viticulture and enology at University of California Davis said, \"The debt of gratitude that we in the research community owe to him is immeasurable. He will be missed in ways that I don't think we all understand yet. There was no question about his reputation. His approach was always a no-nonsense, no-politics approach. He never let the main issues get sidetracked.\" John De Luca, President of the Wine Institute said \"I'm not sure people truly perceive his extraordinary impact on the wine industry. He is one of the defining figures, one of the great figures in wine of our time.\" Patrick Gleeson, executive director of the American Vineyard Foundation, who Meyer had mentored as a young lad said, \"His vision and love for wine has undoubtedly made him a living legacy amongst friends, peers and those in the industry. Justin's passing will not diminish the influence he has had on the wine industry and hopefully it will inspire others to follow in his footsteps.\"\n\nHe is survived by his wife, Bonny. The couple had two sons, Chad and Matt, and a daughter, Holly. Bonny Meyer operates Bonny's Vineyard, and his son Matt also operates Meyer Family Cellars, which his father helped him establish in the Yorkville Highlands of Mendocino County in January 1999.\n"}
{"id": "25813173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25813173", "title": "Konstantinos Konstantinidis", "text": "Konstantinos Konstantinidis\n\nKonstantinos Konstantinidis (1856–1930) was a Greek merchant and one of the first to advocate for an Independent Republic of Pontus.\nHe was born in Trapezunt, Pontus.\n"}
{"id": "43473689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43473689", "title": "Louis Paul Jonas", "text": "Louis Paul Jonas\n\nLouis Paul Jonas (July 17, 1894 – February 16, 1971) was an American sculptor of wildlife, taxidermist, and natural history exhibit designer.\n\nBorn in Budapest, Hungary, Jonas moved to the United States at the age of 12 and went to work at his brothers' taxidermy studio, Jonas Brothers, in Denver, Co. Later he moved to New York City, where studied under Carl Akeley, a noted field naturalist, taxidermist, and animal sculptor. There, they created the African elephant group in the center of Akeley Hall at the American Museum of Natural History, in New York.\n\nJonas opened Louis Paul Jonas Studios, Inc in Mahopac, NY, and eventually moved to Hudson, NY. The studio was known for its miniature and full size animal sculptures, taxidermy, and natural history exhibits featured in over 50 museums worldwide.\n\nThe company created the first full sized dinosaur sculptures for the 1964 New York World's Fair in the \"Dinoland\" area, which was sponsored by the Sinclair Oil Corporation. Jonas consulted with noted paleontologists Barnum Brown, Edwin H. Colbert and John Ostrom in order to create sculptures that were as accurate as possible. After the Fair closed, the dinosaur models toured the country on special flatbed trailers as part of a company advertising campaign. Many of the statues are now on display at various museums and parks\n\nIn 1932, Louis Paul Jonas and his brothers created the taxidermy model of the famous Australian race horse Phar Lap that is now on display at the Melbourne Museum.\n\nIn 1983, the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C. hosted an exhibition of 75 wildlife miniatures created by Jonas.\n\nLife-sized fiberglass models of dinosaurs created by Jonas Studios for the 1964 New York World's Fair are on display at:\n\nA Jonas Studios sculpture of a stegosaurus, \"Steggie II\", is located in front of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History. Another copy, known as \"Wally\", is located at the Berkshire Museum in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Still another is on display at the Fernbank Museum of Natural History in Atlanta.\n\n"}
{"id": "50918174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50918174", "title": "Matt (video game player)", "text": "Matt (video game player)\n\nMatt Elento, also known as Matt or Matlife, is an American \"League of Legends\" player who plays support for Team Liquid of the North American League of Legends Championship Series (NA LCS). He formerly played for Team Liquid Academy.\n\nHe is from Hawaii.\n\n"}
{"id": "678919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=678919", "title": "Millwright", "text": "Millwright\n\nA millwright is a high-precision craftsman or tradesman who installs, dismantles, repairs, reassembles, and moves machinery in factories, power plants, and construction sites.\n\nAs the name suggests, the original function of a millwright was the construction of flour mills, sawmills, paper mills and fulling mills powered by water or wind, mostly of wood with a limited number of metal parts.\nSince both of these structures originated from antiquity, millwrighting could be considered, arguably, as one of the oldest engineering trades and the forerunner of the modern mechanical engineer.\n\nIn modern usage, a millwright is engaged with the erection of machinery. This includes such tasks as leveling, aligning and installing machinery on foundations or base plates and setting, leveling and aligning electric motors or other power sources such as turbines with the equipment, which millwrights typically connect with some type of coupling.\n\nThe term \"millwright\" (also known as \"industrial mechanic\" ) is mainly used in the United States, Canada and South Africa to describe members belonging to a particular trade. Other countries use different terms to describe tradesmen engaging in similar activities. \nRelated, but distinctly different crafts, include machinists and mechanics.\n\nOriginally, millwrights were specialized carpenters who completely designed and constructed mills. Having a working knowledge of driveshafts, bearings, gearing and mechanical belts, they executed every type of engineering operation in the construction of these mills. They designed the patterns of the water wheel systems, carved their gear mechanisms, and finally erected the mill machines \n\nIn the Hellenistic period Greek millwrights invented the two main components of watermills, the waterwheel and toothed gearing. Greeks, along with the Romans, were the first to operate undershot, overshot and breastshot waterwheel mills.\n\nMuslim millwrights adopted the Greek watermill technology from the Byzantine Empire, where it had been applied for centuries in those provinces conquered by the Muslims. They used several solutions to achieve the maximum output from watermills, by either mounting them to piers of bridges to take advantage of the increased flow or by using a shipmill, a type of watermill powered by water wheels mounted on the sides of ships moored in midstream.\nIn Medieval Europe, millwrights built the first industrial mills which introduced new innovative uses of waterpower. A survey of the types introduced in Western Europe was conducted by Adam Robert Lucas.\n\nIn China, in the late 14th century, the millwrights were known as \"jiang\" and \"kong\" (a special term for artisan-engineers) and existed at an early age. They learned their craft on the shop floor, in a kind of apprentiship scheme.\n\nSir William Fairbairn, a millwright of the late 19th century, wrote in his \"Treatise on Mills and Millwork\", \"...the millwright of the late centuries was an itinerant engineer and mechanic of high reputation. He could handle the axe, the hammer, and the plane with equal skill and precision...he could set out and cut in the furrows of a millstone with an accuracy equal or superior to that of the miller himself.\" \n\nThe introduction of the steam engine and the increasing importance of iron and steel changed the global industrial landscape.\nIt created specialisation and the birth of new trades (turners, fitters, machine makers, and mechanical engineers). It also changed the traditional job of the millwright.\n\nAs James F. Hobart wrote in his book \"Millwrighting\", \"The ancient type of millwright has passed away. He has gone with the old time carpenter and obsolete shoemaker - the former with 500 pounds of molding planes and woodworking tools, the latter with nothing but pegging and sewing awls, hammer, and knife...\" \n\nThrough the 20th century, the trade adapted to the change. Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials and must often combine the skills of other mechanical trades in order to successfully install industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts. Modern millwrights must also be able to read blueprints and other schematics to aid them in the construction of complex systems. Millwrights are frequently unionized, with estimated numbers of around 45% in the US.\n\nMillwrights install, maintain, repair and troubleshoot stationary industrial machinery and mechanical equipment in sites such as factories, production plants and recreational facilities.However, the exact duties of a millwright vary depending on whether they are unionized or not, with union rules typically being more restrictive than non-union situations, which may have their own job description.\n\nOn a typical job millwrights:\n\nModern standards of practice for millwrights also require working:\n\nMillwrights by nature of their profession have to be extremely well versed in many aspects of construction/demobilization. They may install a conveyor system at an airport one week and the following week work at an industrial wastewater treatment plant.\n\nMillwrights in the power generation industry can assemble, set, align and balance turbines or rotors, as well as install pumps, valves, cranes, fans, and travelling screens. Millwrights also perform critical lifts involving major components to be flown level at up to and within .005 inch (5 thousandths of an inch). Because of their training and expertise, Millwrights are generally chosen to work on tasks associated with flying and setting heavy machinery.\n\nMillwrights are also in demand as teachers for vocational programs, both at the high school level and in post-secondary institutions. Many high schools feature fabrication courses that include metal work, where the experience of a qualified millwright is valuable. Often, these millwrights are paid a premium based on their years of field experience.\n\nMillwrights must have a good understanding of fluid mechanics (hydraulics and pneumatics), and all of the components involved in these processes, such as valves, cylinders, pumps and compressors.\n\nThey are also trained to work with a wide array of precision tools, such as vernier calipers, micrometers, dial indicators, levels, gauge blocks, and optical and laser alignment tooling.\n\nMost millwrights are educated through apprenticeship programs where they receive a combination of classroom education along with a good deal of on-the-job training. For example, in Alberta, the term of apprenticeship for a millwright is four years (four 12-month periods) including a minimum of 1560 hours of on-the-job training and site weeks of technical training each year.\n\nWithin the Steelworkers Union, known as the United Steelworkers or USW,the largest Industrial Union in North America, there is also a mix of both classroom and on-the-job training. Upon successful completion of required testing in blueprints, hydraulics, pneumatics, rigging, pipefitting, welding, burning, gears, couplings, and other various types of mechanical fasteners and machinery, as well as mobile equipment and other heavy machinery, a Millwright must also have 10 years of experience and seniority before being allowed to acquire one's Journeyman card from the International Union.\n\nApprentices are usually paid a percentage of the average millwright's wage, and this percentage increases with experience.\n\nA typical training course, to qualify as a millwright, may include, among others, the following: \n\nIn South Africa, the millwright trade (especially focused on the mining sector) enjoys a far more versatile description than in most other countries. \nFields wherein South African millwrights may operate include:\n\nAt most trades training centers, prospective millwright artisans are required to have a certain level of theoretical certification (e.g. N3-Nated- certificate) and psychometric characteristics, judged by thorough testing, in order to qualify for the foundation practical and theoretical technical training.\n\nAfter being trained in a multitude of different fields, novice, unqualified Millwrights enter in an apprenticeship for \"on-the-job\" training. There they work alongside all available artisans regardless of trade, depending on the institution. Once they meet a structured quota of experience and pass the necessary modules, apprentices have two months to prepare for their practical Trade Test. After they passed, they receive the certification and status of a qualified Millwright Tradesman. \nOnce millwrights qualify, they have the opportunity to qualify as technicians, engineers, planners, foremen and many other routes requiring mainly electrical and mechanical expertise.\n\nMany millwrights choose to enter the private sector to work on a contractual basis.\n\nA number of prominent early-modern civil engineers originally trained as millwrights, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1718727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718727", "title": "Naddodd", "text": "Naddodd\n\nNaddod ( or \"Naddaðr\", , , literally \"studded\") was a Norse-Faroese Viking who is credited with the discovery of Iceland. Naddod was also one of the first settlers on the Faroe Islands after Grímur Kamban became the first to settle there around 825. Naddod was born in Agder, which comprises the two Norwegian counties of Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder.\n\nLandnámabók, a medieval Icelandic manuscript, describes in considerable detail the settlement (Icelandic: \"landnám\") of Iceland by the Norse in the 9th and 10th century. According to Landnámabók, Iceland was discovered by Naddod, who was sailing from Norway to the Faroe Islands, but got lost and drifted to the east coast of Iceland. Naddod came upon the shore of a land with a bay and mountains near what is today the Icelandic town of Reyðarfjörður. Although he climbed a mountain to look for smoke rising from fireplaces he saw no sign of humans. Naddod decided to continue his journey to the Faroe Islands, but as he returned to his boat it started to snow and so he named the land \"Snæland\" (\"Snowland\"). The island later became known as \"Ísland\" (\"Iceland\"). (See names of Iceland).\n\nNaddod is probably the father of Ann Naddodsdóttir from Shetland. Naddod has distant relations to Erik the Red and his son, Leif Erikson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1286042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1286042", "title": "New Zealanders", "text": "New Zealanders\n\nNew Zealanders, colloquially known as Kiwis (), are people associated with New Zealand, sharing a common history, culture, and language (New Zealand English). People of various ethnicities and national origins are citizens of New Zealand, governed by its nationality law. \n\nOriginally composed solely of the indigenous Māori, the ethnic makeup of the population has been dominated since the 19th century by New Zealanders of European descent, mainly of Scottish, English, Welsh and Irish ancestry, with smaller percentages of other European ancestries such as German, Dutch, Scandinavian and South Slavic. Today, the ethnic makeup of the New Zealand population is undergoing a process of change, with new waves of immigration, higher birth rates and increasing interracial marriage resulting in the New Zealand population of Māori, Asian, Pacific Islander and multiracial descent growing at a higher rate than those of solely European descent, with such groups projected to make up a larger proportion of the population in the future. New Zealand has an estimated resident population of around Over one million New Zealanders recorded in the 2013 New Zealand census were born overseas.\n\nWhile most New Zealanders are resident in New Zealand, there is also a significant diaspora, estimated at around 750,000. Of these, around 640,800 lived in Australia (), which was equivalent to of the domestic population of New Zealand. Other communities of New Zealanders abroad are predominantly concentrated in other English-speaking countries, specifically the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada, with smaller numbers located elsewhere.\n\nDespite its multiethnic composition, the culture held in common by most New Zealanders can also be referred to as mainstream New Zealand culture, a Western culture largely derived from the traditions of British and other Northern European colonists, settlers, and immigrants. It also includes influences of Māori culture. Large-scale immigration in the 20th and 21st centuries from Asia, such as Chinese and Indians, introduced a variety of elements.\n\nThe table above shows the broad ethnic composition of the New Zealand population at the 1961 census compared to that from the most recent data of the 2013 census. People of European descent constituted the majority of the 4.2 million people living in New Zealand, with 2,969,391 or 74.0% of the population in the 2013 New Zealand census. Those of full or part-Māori ancestry comprise 14.9% of New Zealanders. The residual \"others\" ethnic group consists largely of Asians and Pacific Islanders.\nMost European New Zealanders are of British and Irish ancestry, with smaller percentages of other European ancestries such as Germans, Poles (historically noted as German due to Partitions of Poland), French, Dutch, Scandinavian and South Slavs. In the 1961 census, over 90% self-identified as people of European descent.\n\nThe Māori language loanword \"Pākehā\" has been used to refer to European New Zealanders, although others reject this appellation. The word Pākehā today is increasingly used to refer to all non-Polynesian New Zealanders.\n\nThe first Europeans known to have reached New Zealand were Dutch explorer Abel Janszoon Tasman and his crew in 1642. Māori killed several of the crew and no more Europeans went to New Zealand until British explorer James Cook's voyage of 1768–71. Cook reached New Zealand in 1769 and mapped almost the entire coastline. Following Cook, New Zealand was visited by numerous European and North American whaling, sealing and trading ships. They traded European food and goods, especially metal tools and weapons, for Māori timber, food, artefacts and water. On occasion, Europeans and Māori traded goods for sex.\nBecoming aware of the lawless nature of European settlement and of increasing French interest in the territory, the British government appointed James Busby as British Resident to New Zealand in 1832. Busby failed to bring law and order to European settlement, but did oversee the introduction of the first national flag on 20 March 1834, after an unregistered New Zealand ship was seized in Australia. The nebulous United Tribes of New Zealand later, in October 1835, sent the Declaration of the Independence of New Zealand to King William IV of the United Kingdom, asking him for protection. Ongoing unrest and the legal standing of the Declaration of Independence prompted the Colonial Office to send Captain William Hobson to New Zealand to claim sovereignty for the British Crown and negotiate a treaty with the Māori. The Treaty of Waitangi was first signed in the Bay of Islands on 6 February 1840. The drafting was done hastily and confusion and disagreement continue to surround the translation. The Treaty however remains regarded as New Zealand's foundation as a nation and is revered by Māori as a guarantee of their rights.\n\nIn response to New Zealand Company attempts to establish a separate colony in Wellington, and French claims in Akaroa, Hobson, now Lieutenant-Governor, declared British sovereignty over all of New Zealand on 21 May 1840. The two proclamations published in the \"New Zealand Advertiser and Bay Of Islands Gazette\" issue of 19 June 1840 \"assert[s] on the grounds of Discovery, the Sovereign Rights of Her Majesty over the Southern Islands of New Zealand, commonly called 'The Middle Island' (South Island) and 'Stewart's Island' (Stewart Island/Rakiura); and the Island, commonly called 'The Northern Island', having been ceded Sovereignty to Her Majesty.\" The second proclamation expanded on how sovereignty over the \"Northern Island\" had been ceded under the treaty signed that February.\n\nFollowing the formalising of sovereignty, the organised and structured flow of migrants from Great Britain and Ireland began, and by 1860 more than 100,000 British and Irish settlers lived throughout New Zealand. The Otago Association actively recruited settlers from Scotland, creating a definite Scottish influence in that region, while the Canterbury Association recruited settlers from the south of England, creating a definite English influence over that region. By 1870 the non-Māori population reached over 250,000.\n\nOther settlers came from Germany, Scandinavia, and other parts of Europe as well as from China and the Indian subcontinent, but British and Irish settlers made up the vast majority, and did so for the next 150 years.\n\nBetween 1881 and the 1920s, the New Zealand Parliament passed legislation that intended to limit Asiatic migration to New Zealand, and prevented Asians from naturalising.\nIn particular, the New Zealand government levied a poll tax on Chinese immigrants up until the 1930s, when Japan went to war with China. New Zealand finally abolished the poll tax in 1944.\nAn influx of Jewish refugees from central Europe came in the 1930s.\nMany of the persons of Polish origin in New Zealand arrived as orphans from Eastern Poland via Siberia and Iran in 1944 during World War II.\n\nWith the agencies of the United Nations dealing with humanitarian efforts following the Second World War, New Zealand accepted about 5,000 refugees and displaced persons from Europe, and more than 1,100 Hungarians between 1956 and 1959 (see Refugees in New Zealand). The post-WWII immigration included more persons from Greece, Italy, Poland and the former Yugoslavia.\n\nNew Zealand limited immigration to those who would meet a labour shortage in New Zealand. To encourage those to come, the Government introduced free and assisted passages in 1947, a schema expanded by the First National Government in 1950. However, when it became clear that not enough skilled migrants would come from the British Isles alone, recruitment began in Northern European countries. New Zealand signed a bilateral agreement for skilled migrants with the Netherlands, and a large number of Dutch immigrants arrived in New Zealand. Others came in the 1950s from Denmark, Germany, Switzerland and Austria to meet needs in specialised occupations.\nBy the 1960s, the policy of excluding people based on nationality yielded a population overwhelmingly European in origin. By the mid-1960s, a desire for cheap unskilled labour led to ethnic diversification.\n\nThe Māori people are most likely descended from people who emigrated from Taiwan to Melanesia and then travelled east through to the Society Islands. After a pause of 70 to 265 years, a new wave of exploration led to the discovery and settlement of New Zealand in about AD 1250–1300, making New Zealand one of the most recently settled major landmasses. Some researchers have suggested an earlier wave of arrivals dating to as early as AD 50–150; these people then either died out or left the islands.\n\nOver the following centuries the Polynesian settlers developed into a distinct culture now known as Māori. The population was divided into iwi (tribes) and hapū (subtribes) which would cooperate, compete and sometimes fight with each other. At some point a group of Māori migrated to the Chatham Islands where they developed their distinct Moriori culture.\n\nDue to New Zealand's geographic isolation, 500 years passed before the next phase of settlement, the arrival of Europeans. Only then did the indigenous inhabitants need to distinguish themselves from the new arrivals, using the term \"Māori\" which means \"normal\" or \"ordinary\".\nIn the 1860s, disputes over questionable land purchases led to the Māori Wars, which resulted in large tracts of tribal land being confiscated by the colonial government. Settlements such as Parihaka in Taranaki have become almost legendary because of injustices done there. With the loss of much of their land, Māori went into a period of decline, and in the late 19th century it was believed that the Māori population would cease to exist as a separate race and would be assimilated into the European population.\n\nHowever, the predicted decline did not occur, and numbers recovered. Despite a high degree of intermingling between the Māori and European populations, Māori were able to retain their cultural identity and in the 1960s and 1970s Māoridom underwent a cultural revival.\nThe Māori population has seen stability in the 21st century. In the 2013 Census, 598,602 people identified as being part of the Māori ethnic group, accounting for 14.9% of the New Zealand population, while 668,724 people (17.5%) claimed Māori descent. 278,199 people identified as of sole Māori ethnicity, while 291,015 identified as of both European and Māori ethnicity (with or without a third ethnicity), due to a high rate of intermarriage between the two cultures. Under the Maori Affairs Amendment Act 1974, a Māori is defined as “a person of the Māori race of New Zealand; and includes any descendant of such a Māori.\"\n\nAccording to the 2006 census, the largest iwi by population is Ngāpuhi (125,601), followed by Ngāti Porou (71,049), Ngāi Tahu (54,819) and Waikato (40,083). However, over 110,000 people of Māori descent in the 2013 census could not identify their iwi. Outside of New Zealand, a large Māori population exists in Australia, estimated at 155,000 in 2011. The Māori Party has suggested a special seat should be created in the New Zealand parliament representing Māori in Australia. Smaller communities also exist in the United Kingdom (approx. 8,000), the United States (up to 3,500) and Canada (approx. 1,000).\n\nThe most common region this group lived in was Auckland Region (23.9 percent or 142,770 people). They are the second-largest ethnic group in New Zealand, after European New Zealanders. In addition, more than 120,000 Māori live in Australia. \nThe Māori language (known as \"Te Reo Māori\") is still spoken to some extent by about a fifth of all Māori, representing 3% of the total population. Many New Zealanders regularly use Māori words and expressions, such as \"kia ora\", while speaking English. Māori are active in all spheres of New Zealand culture and society, with independent representation in areas such as media, politics and sport.\n\nIn the 2013 Census, Asian ancestries total was 11.8% of the population, Chinese remained the largest Asian ethnic group in 2013, with 171,411 people while Indian was the second-largest Asian ethnic group in 2013, with 155,178 with Filipino a distant third with 40,350 people.\n\nThe Asian component actually predates the Pacific component. There had been people of Asian ethnicity living in New Zealand from the early days of European settlement, albeit in very small numbers. During the period of gold rushes later in the nineteenth century the number of Chinese temporary settlers both from China and from Australia and America increased sharply. This was an interlude in many respects, though there was a small population which remained and settled permanently. However, a century later in the 1980s and 1990s the number of people of Asian ethnicities grew rapidly, and they are likely to exceed the Pacific population within the next few years.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, New Zealand encouraged migrants from the South Pacific. The country had a large demand for unskilled labour in the manufacturing sector. As long as this demand continued, migrants were encouraged by the government to come from the South Pacific, and many overstayed. However, when the boom times stopped, some blamed the migrants for the economic downturn affecting the country, and many of those people suffered dawn raids from 1974.\n\nThis component was 1.2% of the total population in the 2013 census. The Latin American ethnic group almost doubled in size between the 2006 and 2013 censuses, increasing from 6,654 people to 13,182. A more recent component comprises refugees and other settlers from Africa and the Middle East, most recently from Somalia. While there had been previous settlers from the Middle East, such as Syrians, people from Equatorial Africa have been very few in the past. \n\nIn 2013, 67,752 people or 1.7% self-identified with one or more ethnicities \"other than\" European, Māori, Pacific, Asian, Middle Eastern, Latin American, and African. The vast majority of these people, 65,973 people, identified only as ‘New Zealander’.\n\nSuccessive government policies on the relationship between Māori and non-Māori people have worsened race relations. After 1840, many issues to do with sovereignty and land ownership remained unresolved and, for a long time, invisible while Māori lived in rural communities. When Māori and Pākehā began living in closer proximity, the belief that the country had \"the best race relations in the world\" was tested. The first Race Relations Concilitator was appointed in 1971 to help combat racial discrimination among New Zealanders.\n\nAgitation regarding Treaty of Waitangi violations intensified in the 1970s. The Waitangi Tribunal was set up in 1975 to consider alleged breaches, and in 1984 was empowered to look back to 1840.\n\nNew Zealand culture is essentially a Western culture influenced by the unique environment and geographic isolation of the islands, and the cultural input of the Māori and the various waves of multiethnic migration which followed the British colonisation of New Zealand. British settlers brought a legal, political, and economic system that has flourished, along with the British system of agriculture that has transformed the landscape. The British brought the Protestant work ethic—the industrious newcomers astonished Māori people. In return, settlers noted the athletic ability, musicality, and courage of the Māori. However, British paternalism soon brought an extensive welfare system that created a large Māori underclass.\n\nThe development of a New Zealand identity and national character, separate from the British colonial identity, is most often linked with the period surrounding the First World War, which gave rise to the concept of the Anzac spirit. However, cultural links between New Zealand and Great Britain are maintained by a common language, sustained immigration from the UK, and the fact that many young New Zealanders spend time in Britain on \"overseas experience\", known as \"OE\". New Zealanders also identify closely with Australians, as a result of the two nations' shared historical, cultural and geographic characteristics.\nThe New Zealand government promotes Māori culture by supporting Māori-language schools, by ensuring the language is visible in government departments and literature, by insisting on traditional Māori welcomes (pōwhiri) at government functions and state school award programs, and by having Māori run the welfare services targeted at their people.\n\nNew Zealanders are distinctive for their twangy dialect of English and propensity to travel long distances, and are quickly associated with the All Blacks rugby team and the haka. A tradition of resourcefulness came from the pioneering backgrounds of both European and Māori colonists.\n\n\"Zealandia\" is a national personification of New Zealand and New Zealanders. In her stereotypical form, Zealandia appears as a woman of European descent who is dressed in flowing robes (or gown). She is similar in dress and appearance to Britannia (the female personification of Britain), who is said to be the mother of Zealandia.\n\nAs a rhetorical evocation of a New Zealand national identity, Zealandia appeared on postage stamps, posters, cartoons, war memorials, and New Zealand government publications most commonly during the first half of the 20th century. The personification was a commonly used symbol of the New Zealand Centennial Exhibition, which was held in Wellington in 1939 and 1940. Two large Zealandia statues serve as war memorials that honour the casualties of the Second Boer War: one is in Waimate and the other is in Palmerston. Some smaller statues exist in museums and in private hands.\n\nThe female figure who appears on the left side of the national coat of arms has been identified as Zealandia (in a \"cut down nightie\").\n\nEnglish (New Zealand English) is the dominant language spoken by New Zealanders, and a \"de facto\" official language of New Zealand. According to the 2013 New Zealand census, 96.1% of New Zealanders spoke English. The country's \"de jure\" official languages are Māori (Te Reo) and New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Other languages are also used by ethnic communities.\n\nJust under half of the population at the 2013 census declared an affiliation to Christianity. However, regular church attendance is probably closer to 15%. Before European colonisation the religion of the indigenous Māori population was animistic, but the subsequent efforts of missionaries such as Samuel Marsden resulted in most Māori converting to Christianity.\n\nReligious affiliation has been collected in the New Zealand census since 1851. One of the many complications in interpreting religious affiliation data in New Zealand is the large proportion who object to answering the question, roughly 173,000 in 2013. Most reporting of percentages is based on the total number of responses, rather than the total population.\n\nIn the early 20th century New Zealand census data indicates that the vast majority of New Zealanders affiliated with Christianity. The total percentages in the 1921 non-Māori census were 45% Anglicans, 19.9% Presbyterians, 13.6% Catholics, 9.5% Methodists and 11.2% Others. Statistics for Māori were only available from 1936, with 35.8% Anglicans, 19.9% Ratana, 13.9% Catholics, 7.2% Ringatu, 7.1% Presbyterians, 6.5% Latter Day Saints, 1.3% Methodists and 8.3% Others recorded at this census.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10042719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10042719", "title": "Nikolay Mikhaylovich Afanasyev", "text": "Nikolay Mikhaylovich Afanasyev\n\nNikolay Mikhailovich Afanasyev (, also known as Nicolai Michaelovich Afanasiev) (November 14, 1916 – March 15, 2009) was a Russian firearms designer.\n\nNicolai Michaelovitch Afanasiev was born in Russia on 14 November 1916 in St. Petersburg. In 1938 he graduated from a Tekhnikum of the Mechanization of Agriculture.\n\nIn 1939 he was drafted to serve in a tank corps in Mongolia, where he started to work on machine gun design. After the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union, he volunteered for front-line service. He was allowed to be a fighter from September 1941 until the fall of 1942, when he was recalled to work on armaments, initially on improving fuses for 82- and 120-mm mortars.\n\nAfter 1948 Afanasiev worked at the KBP Instrument Design Bureau.\n\nHe died on 15 March 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8302085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8302085", "title": "Pierre Bossier", "text": "Pierre Bossier\n\nPierre Evariste Jean-Baptiste Bossier (March 22, 1797 – April 24, 1844) was a planter, soldier and politician born in Natchitoches, Louisiana. He is the namesake of Bossier Parish (pronounced BO zhure), located east of the Red River across from Shreveport in northwestern Louisiana. Bossier City and the Pierre Bossier Mall shopping center in Bossier City are among the other places named for him.\n\nBorn in Natchitoches, Louisiana, in 1797, while it was still a colony, Pierre Evariste Jean-Baptiste Bossier was the son of planter François Paul Bossier and the former Catherine Pélagie Lambre. An ethnic French Catholic Creole, he was privately educated by a tutor in the classics.\n\nBossier was a planter like his father and cultivated cotton and sugar as commodity crops on his plantation, Live Oaks, on the Cane River, depending on the labor of large gangs of enslaved African Americans. This waterway was formerly a segment of the Red River, in Natchitoches Parish. Like other native-born creoles of the planter elite, Bossier served in the state militia, gaining the rank of general.\n\nHe entered politics as a Democrat. Bossier was elected as a member of the Louisiana State Senate in 1832, defeating Whig Louis Gustave De Russy. Of French descent, De Russy (also known as Lewis DeRussy, in an anglicized form of his name) was born and grew up in New York City, where his father had taken the family after fleeing from the violence on Saint-Domingue during the Haitian Revolution. Bossier served from 1833 to 1843.\n\nIn the summer of 1839, a political argument between a prominent Whig, General F. Gaiennie, and State Senator General P. E. Bossier, a Democrat, escalated to recriminations published in the local newspaper. Gaiennie, also a general in the state militia, had denounced Bossier as a coward. Bossier demanded a duel and Gaiennie accepted, choosing rifles as the most deadly weapon available. The duel occurred the following autumn on the grounds of Cherokee Plantation, which was owned by Emile Sompayrac in Natchitoches Parish. Gaiennie fired first and missed, Bossier hit Gaiennie in the heart, killing him instantly. Another eleven men died in the aftermath, as animosities related to the duel continued to play out.\nBossier was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from the newly established Louisiana's 4th congressional district, serving from March 4, 1843, until his death in office a year later on April 24, 1844 in Washington, D.C. before his first term had ended. He committed suicide.\n\nBossier's remains are interred at the Catholic Cemetery in Natchitoches.\n\nBossier City, Bossier Parish, and Pierre Bossier Mall in Bossier City, and Bossier Street in Natchitoches, are all named in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52702007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52702007", "title": "Rabbit Makes a Monkey of Lion", "text": "Rabbit Makes a Monkey of Lion\n\nRabbit Makes a Monkey of Lion: A Swahili Tale is a 1989 children's picture book by Verna Aardema and illustrated by Jerry Pinkney. It is an adaption of a Swahili folktale and is about Rabbit tricking Lion over a calabash tree.\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" reviewed \"Rabbit Makes a Monkey of Lion\" writing \"Aardema offers up a sound piece of storytelling, admirably reflected in Pinkney's full-color watercolor and pencil illustrations; he composes a lush jungle setting for the folksy antics, and brings drama to the text with his depictions of the various escapes from the hapless Lion.\" and the \"New York Times\" described Pinkney's illustrations as having \"a velvety softness\".\n\n\"Rabbit Makes a Monkey of Lion\" has also been reviewed by the \"School Library Journal\", and \"Booklist\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35403548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35403548", "title": "Raoul Silva", "text": "Raoul Silva\n\nRaoul Silva (real name Tiago Rodriguez) is a fictional character and the primary antagonist in the 2012 James Bond film \"Skyfall\". He is portrayed by Academy Award-winning actor Javier Bardem. A former MI6 agent, he turns to cyberterrorism and begins targeting the agency he used to work for as part of a plan to get revenge against M, against whom he holds a homicidal grudge.\n\nBardem received critical acclaim for his performance, and Silva is regularly ranked among the greatest villains in the James Bond series.\n\n\"Skyfall\" establishes that Silva's real name is Tiago Rodriguez, and that he once was a part of Station H, the MI6 division based in Hong Kong before China took control, specialising in cyberterrorism. When he hacked into the Chinese government's top secret files, M, who was the head of Station H at the time, allowed them to take him prisoner in exchange for the return of six previously captured agents and a peaceful transition of sovereignty. He was tortured for five months, until finally he attempted suicide by swallowing a cyanide capsule. He survived, but was left disfigured, with a misshapen jaw, rotted teeth and a sunken left eye socket. He wears a dental prosthetic to conceal his disfigurements. At some point he escaped from Chinese custody and reinvented himself as Raoul Silva, a cyberterrorist for hire, and began forming a plan to get revenge against M.\n\nOne of Silva's henchmen, Patrice, steals a hard drive containing the names and locations of MI6 agents operating undercover within terrorist groups; Silva begins uploading their identities and aliases onto YouTube, resulting in several agents being murdered. Silva then targets MI6 headquarters by sabotaging the building's gas main, causing an explosion that kills several agents. M sends Bond to Macau to find and kill Silva. Bond seduces Silva's lover, a prostitute named Sévérine, who promises to take Bond to him in return for her freedom; ultimately, however, Silva intimidates her into betraying Bond. Upon taking Bond captive, Silva forces him at gunpoint to participate in a game of William Tell, in which the target is a shot glass of scotch balanced on Sevérine's head. When Bond intentionally misses her, Silva shoots her dead. Bond then kills Silva's men. Moments later, MI6 helicopters arrive to take Silva into custody having been signaled by an emergency distress radio given to Bond by Q.\n\nAt MI6's underground headquarters in London, M confronts Silva, who taunts her that his plan is already in motion. Q attempts to decrypt Silva's laptop, but inadvertently gives it access to the MI6 systems, allowing Silva to escape from MI6 custody. Bond realises that Silva wanted to be captured as part of a plan to kill M.\n\nSilva flees into the London Underground, with Bond in pursuit. Silva diverts through London's sewers. When Bond finally catches up to him, Silva detonates an explosive charge that sends a runaway subway train coming straight for Bond, who narrowly escapes. Silva, along with several accomplices, barge into a government hearing where M is giving a deposition, but fails to kill her. Bond barges in and a gunfight follows, in which Silva's plans are disrupted and Bond manages to flee, taking M with him.\n\nSilva follows Bond and M to the former's childhood home in Scotland, where his men open fire. He pursues a mortally wounded M to a chapel at the side of the house, and begs her to kill them both by firing a bullet through her head and into his. At that moment, however, Bond appears and throws a knife into Silva's back, killing him. \n\nIn the following Bond film, \"Spectre\", Ernst Stavro Blofeld reveals that Silva had worked with and been supported by SPECTRE, a worldwide criminal organization, along with Le Chiffre and Dominic Greene, the villains of \"Casino Royale\" and \"Quantum of Solace\", respectively.\n\nThe scene in which Silva and Bond first meet raised eyebrows among critics and fans alike for its supposed homoerotic subtext. In the scene Silva strokes Bond's thighs and chest while interrogating the secret agent, who is tied to a chair.\n\nThe scene ignited speculation that screenwriter John Logan, who is gay, intended to imply that Silva and Bond are gay or bisexual. Logan denied this in an interview with The Huffington Post, saying, \"Some people claim it's because I'm, in fact, gay but not true at all. [Director Sam Mendes] and I were discussing, there were so many scenes in which Bond goes mano-a-mano with the villain, whether it's Dr. No or Goldfinger or whatever, and there's been so many ways to a cat-and-mouse and intimidate Bond, and we thought, what would make the audience truly uncomfortable is sexual intimidation; playing the homoerotic card that is sort of always there subtextually with characters like Scaramanga in 'Man With the Golden Gun' or Dr. No. So we just decided we would play the card and enjoy it.\"\n"}
{"id": "559102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559102", "title": "Richard Bassett (politician)", "text": "Richard Bassett (politician)\n\nRichard Bassett (April 2, 1745 – August 15, 1815) was an American lawyer and political figure from the state of Delaware who, as a veteran of the Revolutionary War and delegate to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. A member of the Federalist Party, he served in the Delaware General Assembly, as Governor of Delaware, and as U.S. Senator from Delaware. He holds the Senate Rank of 1, as the most senior United States Senator during the First Congress of the United States.\n\nBassett was born at Bohemia Ferry in the Province of Maryland's Cecil County. His mother, Judith Thompson, had married part-time tavern-owner and farmer Arnold Bassett who deserted the family during Richard's childhood. Since Judith Thompson was the great granddaughter and heiress of Augustine Herrman, the original owner of Cecil County's massive estate of Bohemia Manor, her family raised young Richard. Eventually this heritage provided him with inherited wealth, including the Bohemia Manor plantation as well as much other property in Delaware's New Castle County.\nBassett studied law under Judge Robert Goldsborough of Province of Maryland's Dorchester County and, in 1770, Richard was admitted to the Bar. He moved to Delaware and began a practice in Kent County's court town of Dover, which, in 1777, became the newly independent state's capital city. By concentrating on agricultural pursuits as well as religious and charitable concerns, he quickly established himself amongst the local gentry and \"developed a reputation for hospitality and philanthropy.\" In 1774, at the age of 29, Richard married Ann Ennals and they had three children, Richard Ennals, Ann (known as Nancy) and Mary. After Ann Ennals' death he married Betsy Garnett in 1796. They were active members of the Methodist Church, and gave the church much of their time and attention.\n\nBassett was a reluctant revolutionary, more closely in tune with the approach of George Read than with his neighbors from Kent County, Caesar Rodney and John Haslet. Nevertheless, in 1774 he was elected to the local Boston Relief Committee. When the new government of Delaware was organized, Bassett served on the 1776 Delaware Council of Safety, and was a member of the convention responsible for drafting the Delaware Constitution of 1776, which was adopted September 20, 1776. He was then one of the conservatives elected to 1st Delaware General Assembly, and served for four sessions, from 1776/77 through 1779/80. Subsequently, he was a member of the House of Assembly for the 1780/81 and 1781/82 sessions, and returned to the Legislative Council, for three sessions from 1782/83 through 1784/85. He concluded his state legislative career with a final term in the House of Assembly during the 1786/87 session. He thereby represented Kent County in all but one session of the Delaware General Assembly from independence to the adoption of the U.S. Constitution of 1787.\n\nHowever, Bassett's most notable contributions during the American Revolution were his efforts to mobilize the state's military. Some sources credit him with developing the plans for raising and staffing the 1st Delaware Regiment, with his neighbor, John Haslet at its command. Known as the \"Delaware Continentals\" or \"Delaware Blues\", they were from the smallest state, but at some 800 men, were the largest battalion in the Continental Army. In his book \"1776\", historian David McCullough describes them as \"turned out in handsome red trimmed blue coats, white waistcoats, buckskin breeches, white woolen stockings, and carrying fine, 'lately imported' English muskets\". Raised in early 1776, they went into service in July and August 1776. Bassett also participated in the recruitment of the reserve militia that served in the \"Flying Camp\" of 1776, and the Dover Light Infantry, led by another neighbor, Thomas Rodney.\n\nWhen the British Army marched through northern New Castle County, on the way to the Battle of Brandywine and the capture of Philadelphia, Bassett \"appears to have joined his friend Rodney in the field as a volunteer\". Once the Delaware militia returned home after the British retired from the area, Bassett continued as a part-time soldier, assuming command of the Dover Light Horse, Kent County's militia cavalry unit. in 1799 Bassett was elected governor of Delaware and held his position until 1801.\n\nBassett was one of the delegates to the Constitutional Convention and, without supplying much input, signed the Constitution. Meanwhile, the Delaware Constitution of 1776 was in need of revision, and Bassett once again joined with another of Delaware's Founding Fathers, John Dickinson in leading the convention to draft a revision, which became the Delaware Constitution of 1792. Upon his retirement from the United States Senate in 1793, Bassett began a six-year term as the first Chief Justice of the Delaware Court of Common Pleas. At the time it was a court of general civil jurisdiction and the predecessor of the present Delaware Superior Court. By this time Bassett was formally a member of the Federalist Party, and as such was elected Governor of Delaware in 1799. It was during his time in office that Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours first came to Delaware to begin his gunpowder business.\n\nHowever, it was also during his term that Thomas Jefferson was elected President of the United States, causing great concern for the future of the country among the Federalists. The retiring President John Adams, rushed the Judiciary Act of 1801 through the Federalist 6th Congress, creating a number of new judgeships on the United States circuit courts. Being a staunch Federalist and old political ally, Adams, on his last day in office, February 18, 1801, appointed Bassett, as part of the so-called \"midnight judge\" appointments, to one of the positions, judge of the Third Circuit. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 20, 1801, and received his commission the same day. But the legislation was repealed by the new Jeffersonian 7th Congress, and his tenure ended quickly on July 1, 1802. He never again held public office.\n\nIn addition to his high profile in government, Bassett was a devout and energetic convert to Methodism. Having met Francis Asbury in 1778 at the home of their mutual friend, Judge Thomas White, Bassett soon had a conversion experience, and for the remainder of his life devoted much of his attention and wealth to the promotion of Methodism. He and Asbury remained lifelong friends. This association caused him to become linked in many people's minds to the loyalists, as both White and Asbury were viewed to be opposed to the war. But it also led to a strong abolitionist belief, which led him to free his own slaves and advocate the emancipation of others.\n\nBassett died at Bohemia Manor and was first buried there. In 1865 his remains were moved to a Bassett and Bayard mausoleum in the Wilmington and Brandywine Cemetery in Delaware's largest city, Wilmington.\n\nBassett was a stout man of medium build. He was very fashionable and influential in society. At the Constitutional Convention of 1787 he was described as \"gentlemanly, a religious enthusiast and a man of plain sense\" with \"modesty enough to hold his tongue\". Bassett's daughter, Anne married James A. Bayard, a U.S. Representative and U.S. Senator, and they were the ancestors of the branch of the Bayard family that has played a prominent role in Delaware politics ever since. His niece and adopted daughter, Rachel McCleary, married Governor Joshua Clayton of yet another family long prominent in Delaware politics.\n\nBassett Street in Wisconsin's capital, Madison, is named in his honor.\n\nElections were held October 1 and members of the General Assembly took office on October 20 or the following weekday. State Legislative Councilmen had a three-year term and State Assemblymen had a one-year term. The General Assembly chose the U.S. Senators, who took office March 4 for a six-year term. However, Bassett's term was only four years to establish a rotation.\n\nBeginning in 1792 elections were held the first Tuesday of October. The State President became the Governor and was popularly elected. He takes office the third Tuesday in January and had a three-year term. Judges of the Courts of Common Pleas were also selected by the General Assembly for the life of the person appointed. U.S. Circuit Court Judges were appointed by the President and approved by the U.S. Senate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37233101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37233101", "title": "Sally (\"Salwa\") Shatila Kader", "text": "Sally (\"Salwa\") Shatila Kader\n\nSally (\"Salwa\") Shatila Kader is the co-founder and president of the International Federation for Peace & Sustainable Development (formerly USFMEP), a bipartisan, non-profit and non-governmental organization, which has seventeen chapters around the world including its headquarters in New York City. Kader is a peace activist and currently leads IFPSD programs and events at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City and around the world. She has been recognized by world leaders and organizations for her contributions towards peace.\n\nKader, who was born in Beirut, Lebanon, holds a Bachelor’s Degree in History and Archeology from the University of Lebanon and a Master’s Degree in History from Central Missouri State University. She also pursued extensive coursework in comparative religion, communications and conflict resolution at Harvard University, the University of Baghdad and Lebanese University.\n\nAs President of USFMEP, Kader has traveled across the United States and the Middle East developing learning opportunities in relation to the Middle East, raising awareness about its religions, cultures, history and political landscape. Kader also engages in dialogue with the people of the Middle East, educating them about American culture and tradition, emphasizing the inherently peaceful nature of the American people. Through her work with the organization, Kader has sought to strengthen relations between the United States and the Arab and Muslim worlds by undermining common misconceptions and enhancing tolerance. As an academic well-versed in archeological studies, Kader has also supported the preservation of numerous archeological dig sites and their cultural artifacts in countries such as Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Tunisia and Morocco. \n\nKader has strived to promote peace and tolerance amongst different groups of people by engaging in interfaith dialogue discussions, encouraging youth education and facilitating women empowerment. She has met and worked with various world leaders including former United Kingdom Prime Minister Tony Blair and the late Benazir Bhutto. Kader has also led peace efforts with prominent celebrities including the famous actress Safia Al-Omari.\n\nKader has further collaborated with other leading UN organizations to submit joint statements to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, recommending certain amendments to existing resolutions. In 2004, USFMEP drafted and submitted a document advocating the implementation of international legal standards condemning religious intolerance, which was signed by approximately sixty religious leaders and theorists from around the world.\n\nKader has been recognized for her distinguished contribution to global peace. She has sought to increase awareness of pressing global issues such as human trafficking and much of her work has been committed towards building peace in the world. In pursuit of these goals, Kader has hosted numerous events, panel discussions, peace conferences, vigils, prayer services and peace marches including International Peace Conferences at the Arab League Headquarters in Cairo, Egypt, Annual UN International Day of Peace celebrations throughout the world and an International Peace Walk in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt (December 19, 2005) among others. Through this work, Kader has strived to contribute towards peace-building initiatives by promoting mutual respect, camaraderie and religious tolerance and by condemning violence and hatred.\n\nKader is a long-time activist for women’s rights and much of her work has been devoted toward the empowerment of women and the elevation of women’s status in society. She has taken an active involvement in women empowerment initiatives by encouraging dialogue and educating audiences on various women’s issues. This has included hosting interfaith discussions between different religious women, raising awareness on the trafficking of young girls, promoting women’s role in the media and encouraging women to participate in society, politics and decision-making. Some of her work has included helping refugee Palestinian women and hosting international conferences including one on the Role of Immigrant Women towards International Peace in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nIn addition, Kader has annually organized numerous side-events for the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (“CSW”) on a variety of topics. Some of the CSW side events hosted by Kader have included Women in Islam: East Meets West (March 4, 2005), The Trafficking of Young Girls in the 21st Century (February 26, 2007), Rights of Muslim Women: Islam and Tradition (March 8, 2005), The Role of Women in Creating a Counter-Balance to Extremism (February 2007), The Role of Women in the Media Coverage of Peace-Building between the Middle East and the West (February 28, 2007), Empowering Women in Politics and Decision-Making in Muslim Countries (March 6, 2007), Empowerment of Women through Media Exposure for Building Peace (February 25, 2008), Violence against the Working Mother (March 1, 2010) and Muslim, Jewish and Christian Women Who Share the Vision of Understanding (March 12, 2009) among many others. USFMEP has further submitted statements for the CSW sessions including a recent one on Rural Women and Girls in Conflict and Post-Conflict Areas. \nKader is a prominent activist working in the fight for greater recognition of children’s rights. She has promoted youth empowerment through events such as the Montessori Model United Nations Conferences in April 2011 and 2012, youth interfaith dialogue events in addition to hosting several panel discussions on trafficking in children. She serves as an Ambassador and an Auxiliary Board Member of the CIS, specifically supporting the Virtual Global Task Force, which was the first ever international operational law enforcement task force to protect children worldwide over the Internet.\n\nKader has also spoken to University students throughout the world including her speeches at the University of Wollongong in Dubai (December 12, 2010), University of Saint Mary in Leavenworth, Kansas (September 2007), Georgetown University (November 14, 2005) and several others. She has sought to inspire and educate students about peace-building and has held youth interfaith dialogues to promote tolerance and mutual understanding. In addition, she has had sporting events and sports tournaments for youth throughout the world.\n\nKader has held numerous interfaith discussions bringing people of different faiths and cultures together for peaceful dialogue. She has hosted forums and conferences promoting interfaith and intercultural discussion between clashing religious communities, bringing religious leaders together to discuss shared values and the importance of religious tolerance. On July 20, 2009, Kader hosted an unprecedented congregation of 30 rabbis and imams from 13 European countries to the United Nations headquarters in New York City to discuss peace initiatives. She also served as key speaker at the United Nations Buddhist-Muslim Dialogue Series (September 3, 2008).\n\nKader has further sought to involve women and youth in the interfaith dialogue process. She has moderated a Youth Interfaith Dialogue for Peace and Mutual Understanding (July 25, 2011) as well as events catered towards women. These include Women are mirrored in Each Other: An Interfaith Dialogue and Muslim (March 1, 2012) and Christian and Jewish Women Who Share the Vision of Understanding (March 12, 2009) among others. Kader also served as a delegate for the Global Action Forum: Arab and American Dialogue.\n\nThrough the promotion of interfaith dialogue, Kader has worked to eliminate boundaries between people of different religions and cultures. Her work towards interfaith dialogue resonates with USFMEP’s primary mission to build bridges of tolerance and understanding.\n\nKader is a highly acclaimed international speaker. Some of her speaking engagements have included the UN Headquarters in Geneva, the UN Pavilion at the 2010 Shanghai World Expo in China and several universities including Georgetown University, American University, the University of Wollongong in Dubai and Saint Mary University in Leavenworth, Kansas. Kader participated as a panelist for a number of human trafficking conferences including “Children in Slavery – the 21st Century Campaign” and “Human Trafficking Beijing +15 Lessons Learned.” She is also active with the National Federation of Republican Women and has performed as a guest speaker at many of their forums. Kader has also taken role as keynote speaker at events for the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nShe is also a member of the Israel-Palestine NGO Working Group. She serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the International Federation for Peace and Security and the President and Founder of the Sam Kader Memorial Foundation to Defeat MRSA. Furthermore, she sits on a number of boards for a wide range of advocacy groups and committees. These include the Convention of the Rights of the Child (CRC), the NGO Committee on Racism and the NGO Committee on Human Rights. In addition, Kader helped open the New Jersey chapter of the Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee. Kader also served as the Director of the United Nations Women’s Guild and helped open their chapter in Lebanon. \nKader was an honored recipient of numerous awards for her efforts in building peace and empowering women. These prestigious awards include:\n\nKader has been featured on several international television networks and global media outlets for her work in the Far East, the Middle East, Europe and the United States. Moreover, she has been honored by world leaders and organizations throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa.\n"}
{"id": "1168740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168740", "title": "Scott McKenzie", "text": "Scott McKenzie\n\nScott McKenzie (born Philip Wallach Blondheim III; January 10, 1939 – August 18, 2012) was an American singer and songwriter. He was best known for his 1967 hit single and generational anthem, \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\".\n\nPhilip Wallach Blondheim III was born in Jacksonville, Florida, on January 10, 1939, as the son of Philip Wallach Blondheim, Jr. by the former Dorothy Winifred Hudson. His family moved to Asheville, North Carolina, when he was six months old. He grew up in North Carolina and Virginia, where he became friends with the son of one of his mother's friends, John Phillips. In the mid-1950s, he sang briefly with Tim Rose in a high school group called The Singing Strings, and later with Phillips, Mike Boran, and Bill Cleary formed a doo wop band, The Abstracts.\n\nIn New York, The Abstracts became The Smoothies and recorded two singles with Decca Records, produced by Milt Gabler. During his time with The Smoothies, Blondheim decided to change his name for business reasons:\n\nIn 1961 Phillips and McKenzie met Dick Weissman and formed the folk group, The Journeymen, at the height of the folk music craze. They recorded three albums and seven singles for Capitol Records. After The Beatles became popular in 1964, The Journeymen disbanded. McKenzie and Weissman became solo performers, while Phillips formed the group The Mamas & the Papas with Denny Doherty, Cass Elliot, and Michelle Phillips and moved to California.\n\nMcKenzie originally declined an opportunity to join the group, saying in a 1977 interview, \"I was trying to see if I could do something by myself. And I didn't think I could take that much pressure.\" Two years later, he left New York and signed with Lou Adler's Ode Records, one of whose most famous artists Carole King later became.\n\nPhillips wrote and co-produced \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\" for McKenzie. John Phillips played guitar on the recording and session musician Gary L Coleman played orchestra bells and chimes. The bass line of the song was supplied by session musician Joe Osborn. Hal Blaine played drums.\n\nIt was released on 13 May 1967 in the United States and was an instant hit, reaching number 4 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 2 in the Canadian RPM Magazine charts. It was also a number 1 in the UK and several other countries, selling over seven million copies globally.\n\nMcKenzie followed the song with \"Like An Old Time Movie,\" which Phillips also wrote, composed, and produced, but which was a minor hit (number 27 in Canada). His first album, \"The Voice of Scott McKenzie,\" was followed with an album called \"Stained Glass Morning.\" He stopped recording in the early 1970s and lived in Joshua Tree, California, and Virginia Beach, Virginia.\n\nIn his own right, McKenzie likewise wrote and composed the song \"Hey! What About Me\" that launched the career of Canadian singer Anne Murray in 1968. (Murray's United States breakthrough, with Gene McLellan's \"Snowbird,\" would not follow for several years.)\n\nIn 1986, he started singing with a new version of The Mamas and the Papas. With Terry Melcher, Mike Love, and John Phillips, he co-wrote \"Kokomo\" (1988), a number 1 single for The Beach Boys.\n\nBy 1998, he had retired from the road version of The Mamas and the Papas, and resided in Los Angeles, California, until his death. He appeared at the Los Angeles tribute concert for John Phillips in 2001, amongst other 1960s contemporary acts.\n\nMcKenzie died on August 18, 2012, at the age of 73, in Los Angeles. He had suffered from Guillain–Barré syndrome from 2010 until his death.\n\n\"NME\" - August 1967\n\n"}
{"id": "38157675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38157675", "title": "Sheldon D. Fields", "text": "Sheldon D. Fields\n\nSheldon D. Fields Ph.D., RN, AACRN, FAANP, FNAP, FAAN FNP-BC (born January, 1970), is a Registered Professional Nurse and Family Nurse Practitioner working in the field of behavioral health research specializing in the area of HIV/AIDS prevention.\n\nFields was born in Brooklyn, New York, in January 1970, the youngest child of six children raised by a single mother. Fields attended public schools and lived in Brooklyn until the age of 17. Sheldon attended Clara Barton High School for Health Professionals with the intention of going to medical school in the future. Instead, he discovered his love of nursing. \nAt the age of 17, Sheldon began his college education at the State University of New York (now known as Binghamton University). Fields graduated in 1991 and started his first job as a nurse at the Sloan Cancer Center in New York City. It was there that Fields first was exposed to the HIV/AIDS population. Working at Sloan Cancer Center, Fields also worked closely with Nurse Practitioners and decided to return to school to receive his advanced degree in nursing. In 1993, Fields returned to Binghamton University to complete a master's in family nursing with certification as Family Nurse Practitioner. While studying for his master's degree, Fields researched intimate partner violence. His mentor, Dr. Theresa Grabo, encouraged him to pursue a Ph.D., and Fields went on to attend the University of Pennsylvania, his mentor’s alma mater, graduating with a Ph.D. in Nursing Science in 2000.\n\nFields's specialty is behavioral health, in particular HIV/AIDS prevention. He has produced contributions including scholarly articles, book chapters, seminars, webinars, newspaper articles, and television appearances. Many of his contributions focus on the young minority HIV/AIDS population.\n\nFields has conducted national-level research within the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) and the HIV Prevention Trials Network(HPTN). Along with these endeavors, Fields began his career as an assistant professor at Binghamton University from 2000 to 2001. While in Rochester, New York, in 2009, he was selected for the highly competitive and prestigious Robert Wood Johnson Health Policy Fellowship, which allowed him to work in the office of United States Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). Fields supported Senator Mikulski's work on the aging subcommittee of the Senate HELP committee during the height of the historic healthcare reform legislation. Shortly after, Fields was promoted to associate professor in the School of Nursing at the University of Rochester.\n\nIn late 2011, Fields became an associate professor at Florida International University's Nicole Wertheim College of Nursing and Health Sciences and served as the first-ever assistant dean of clinical affairs and health policy, as well as the co-director of the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program. Fields left Florida in January 2015 to be the dean of the Mervyn M. Dymally School of Nursing at Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science in Los Angeles, California. This appointment made Fields one of the youngest nursing deans in the country. Fields is also one of very few people of color (Afro-Latino) or men to have led a school of nursing. Fields left Drew in 2016, and in January 2017 he began work as dean of New York Institute of Technology's School of Health Professions, where he oversees five allied health degree programs. Fields is a fellow in the national academy of practice (FNAP), the American Association of Nurse Practitioners (FAANP), and the prestigious American Academy of Nursing (FAAN).\n\nFields has been cited in several newspapers, including the \"Sun-Sentinel\" and the \"Bay Area Reporter\". He has also written a chapter in the book \"Disaster Nursing and Emergency Preparedness\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9346870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9346870", "title": "Torpedo (comics)", "text": "Torpedo (comics)\n\nTorpedo, or Torpedo 1936, is a Spanish comics series written by Enrique Sánchez Abulí and drawn by Jordi Bernet, which depicts the adventures of the antagonistic character Luca Torelli, a heartless hitman, and his sidekick Rascal, in context of the violent organized crime culture of New York City during the Great Depression era.\n\nThe series was originally developed by Abulí and veteran artist Alex Toth, who drew the first two stories in 1981. The collaboration ended when Toth decided he did not share Abulí's darkly humorous view of mankind and frequent use of profanity, and withdrew from the project. He was then replaced by Jordi Bernet, whose gritty, if stylized, artistic style was well suited for the dark and violent subject matter.\n\n\"Torpedo 1936\" was first published in issue 32 of the Spanish horror comics magazine \"Creepy\" in February, 1982. The first two issues featured Toth's artwork, and starting issue 34, with the story \"De perro a perro\", Bernet was responsible for the drawings. \"Torpedo\" went on to be featured in several Spanish comics magazines, such as \"Thriller\", \"Comix International\", \"Totem el comix\", \"Co & Co\" and \"Viñetas\", and albums were published, translated into several languages. The public response to the series became substantial, and it was awarded with the 1986 Angoulême Best Foreign Album Award. Eventually, a dedicated magazine named \"Luca Torelli es Torpedo\" started publication in May, 1991.\n\nLuca Torelli is born in Sicily circa 1903, to a poor, broken home marked by spousal abuse. His parents are presumed to be Vittorio Torelli and Luciana Petrosino, although his older brother's real father was actually their grandfather (who raped his own daughter) and it is implied that Luca's own biological father was the local \"mafioso\" kingpin, who raped Luciana in exchange for mediating peacefully in the feud between the Torellis and the Petrosinos. Luca loses his older brother to a severe beating by their drunken father, orchestrates a vengeance against the latter by using a vindictive neighbour as an unwitting agent, and finally witnesses their mother dying of sorrow upon her son's and husband's consecutive deaths, thereupon being fostered by his uncle Vincenzo. Despite the fact that he engineered his father's death at the hands of their neighbour, the ancestral institution of vendetta prevails and Luca kills him with his uncle's aid; this is implied to be his first direct murder. He is then forced to flee for America as a teenager where he works as a shoe shiner, thereby meeting an abusive senior police officer named MacDonald whom he finally shoots, being involved in other law infringements, such as bank robberies, which also happen to end in murders, and soon becoming a hit man (\"torpedo\" is 1920s slang for a contract killer). Some time later, he gets a Polish American sidekick called Rascal.\n\nFrom here onwards it is difficult to maintain a linear narrative since no dates are given (aside from incidental details such as the Volstead Act, the outburst of the Spanish civil war and, later in the series, the Cuban revolution). Apart from Rascal and characters in flashback stories, there are few recurring characters and few dates are given for his present day stories. The only significant recurring character is a woman called Susan who consistently outwits Torelli. She appears in the first story by Bernet (\"De perro a perro\"), a second one still early on (\"La dama de los camelos\"), and one of the latest (\"El día de la mala baba\"). At least thirteen years are said to have passed between her second and third appearance; she is assumed to be a high-profile prostitute in the first two (whose services had been solicited by Torelli himself in the past), and a \"reformed\", recently widowed housewife and mother, who had presumably \"fucked her [old and rich] husband to death\", as Torelli puts it, in the third.\n\nAll published by Glénat.\nIntegral collections\n\nIntegral collections\n\nTorpedo was published in Brazil both as separate stories in Animal magazine and also as collected books from Martins Fontes publishing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3168083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3168083", "title": "Trevis Smith", "text": "Trevis Smith\n\nTrevis Smith (born September 8, 1976) is a former football linebacker who played seven years with the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the Canadian Football League. Born in Montgomery, Alabama, Smith was formerly a linebacker for the University of Alabama.\n\nOn October 28, 2005, he was charged with aggravated sexual assault in Surrey, BC for knowingly exposing women to the HIV virus by having unprotected sex with them and not revealing his condition. Constable Marc Searle of the RCMP named a complainant called simply \"A. O.\" who claimed that Smith had assaulted her between November 26, 2003, and May 18, 2005. After appearing in court in Surrey, he was freed on a C$10,000 bail after pleading \"not guilty\". On November 18, Smith was charged with the same offence in Regina, Saskatchewan after another woman came forward alleging that Smith did not tell her that he was HIV positive before they had unprotected sex.\n\nSmith was found guilty of two counts of aggravated sexual assault—one for each woman—and bail violations on February 8, 2007 and sentenced to 5½ years in jail on February 26, 2007; he unsuccessfully appealed the conviction.\n\nHe was released from prison on February 25, 2009 and was deported to the United States. On August 18, 2012, it was reported that Smith was dismissed from his position as a high school football coach in Birmingham, Alabama, after the George Washington Carver High School learned of his conviction for aggravated sexual assault.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6899785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6899785", "title": "Trevor Philips", "text": "Trevor Philips\n\nTrevor Philips is a fictional character in \"Grand Theft Auto V\", a video game in the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series made by Rockstar Games. He appears as one of the three main protagonists, alongside Michael De Santa and Franklin Clinton. He is played by actor Steven Ogg, who provided the voice and motion capture for the character.\n\nRockstar based Trevor's appearance on Ogg's physical appearance, while his personality was inspired by Charles Bronson. \"Grand Theft Auto V\" co-writer Dan Houser described Trevor as purely driven by desire and resentment. To make players care for the character, the designers gave the character more emotions. Trevor is shown to truly care about people very close to him, despite his antisocial behavior and psychotic derangement.\n\nTrevor is considered one of the most controversial characters in video game history. The general attention given to Trevor by critics and gamers was mostly very positive, although some reviewers felt that his violent personality and actions negatively affected the game's narrative. His design and personality have drawn comparisons to other influential video game and film characters. Many reviewers have called Trevor a likeable and believable character, and felt that he is one of the few protagonists in the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series that would willingly execute popular player actions, such as murder and violence.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto V\" co-writer Dan Houser explained that Trevor \"appeared to [Rockstar] pretty much out of nowhere as the embodiment of another side of criminality [...] If Michael was meant to be the idea of some version of criminal control [...] what about the guy who didn't do that?\" He later described Trevor as \"the person who's driven purely by desire, resentment, no thought for tomorrow whatsoever, completely id rather than ego-driven.\" He stated that Trevor \"kills without remorse, like a true psychopath, but very sentimental for the right reasons when it suits him.\"\n\nRockstar drew upon game protagonist archetypes during the scripting the characters; Trevor was considered to embody insanity. Houser said the team characterised Michael and Trevor as juxtapositions of each other. He said, \"Michael is like the criminal who wants to compartmentalise and be a good guy some of the time and Trevor is the maniac who isn't a hypocrite\". He said that having three lead characters would help move the game's plot into more original territory than its predecessors, which traditionally followed a single protagonist rising through the ranks of a criminal underworld. In \"Grand Theft Auto V\", Steven Ogg portrayed Trevor. During the initial audition process, Ogg noticed an on-set chemistry between him and Ned Luke (who portrayed Michael), which he felt helped secure them the roles. Ogg said, \"When [Luke] and I went in the room together we immediately had something\". While the actors knew their auditions were for Rockstar Games, it was when they signed contracts that they learned they would be involved in a \"Grand Theft Auto\" title. Ogg felt Trevor's characterisation had evolved over time. He said, \"Nuances and character traits that began to appearhis walk, his manner of speech, his reactions, definitely informed his development throughout the game\".\n\nThe actors began working on the game in 2010. Their performances were mostly recorded using motion capture technology. Dialogue for scenes with characters seated in vehicles was recorded in studios. Because the actors had their dialogue and movements recorded on-set, they considered their performances were no different from those of film or television roles. Their dialogue was scripted so that it did not allow the actors to ad-lib; however they sometimes made small changes to the performance with approval from the directors.\n\nTrevor is depicted as a sociopath in \"Grand Theft Auto V\". He is relentless and easily kills without remorse. However, he is honest about everything and rarely shows hypocrisy, which he often points out in others. He appears to be very insecure about having grown up in Canada, and takes offence to people mocking his accent. Despite his sociopathic actions, Trevor is very emotional; he seems to care about people very close to him, and he can be truly loyal to them. These people include his mother, Ashley Butler, Patricia Madrazo, Maude, Michael De Santa and his children Tracey and Jimmy, Lamar Davis, Ron, Lester, Wade and Franklin Clinton. Nevertheless, the other characters regard Trevor as dangerously unstable; during the prologue, Michael leads Trevor into a trap where he is supposed to be shot and killed, and later implores Franklin to plead insanity if he is ever arrested with Trevor. It is implied that the knowledge and extent of Trevor's crimes, the belief that Trevor's depravity escalated without anyone to keep him in check and his silence on the matter all weigh heavily on Michael's conscience.\n\nWhen portraying Trevor, Ogg cites Tom Hardy's depiction of English criminal Charles Bronson in the 2008 biopic \"Bronson\" as a strong stylistic influence on his portrayal of Trevor. Ogg reflected that while Trevor embodies the violent, psychopathic \"Grand Theft Auto\" anti-hero archetype, he wanted players to sympathise with Trevor's story. \"To elicit other emotions was tough, and it was the biggest challenge and it's something that meant a lot to me,\" Ogg said.\n\nTrevor is Canadian, born just north of the border of the United States. He grew up with a physically abusive father and an emotionally abusive mother. Trevor had a brother, Ryan, who died prior to the game's events. Trevor's father abandoned him in a shopping mall, which he later burned down in retaliation. His father died when Trevor was 10. This upbringing combined with Trevor's violent temper led Trevor to be severely unhinged, leading to numerous fights at school, including an assault on a teacher. Trevor loved planes, and at some point entered the military as a pilot, but was quickly forced to leave after being reproved in a psychological evaluation. Later on, Trevor committed crimes, the first one being a small robbery that landed him in jail for six months (however, due to good behavior, he was out in four). He would continue his criminal ways, including using his piloting skills to become a smuggler. Trevor eventually met Michael Townley and both men realised that they wanted to earn money by performing large heists, and both men became successful in doing so. However, their partnership began to strain after Michael married a stripper named Amanda and started a family with her.\n\nDuring one of their heists with their mutual accomplice Brad Snider, Michael and Brad are shot by police while Trevor escapes, and he believes Michael died and Brad was sent to jail. Trevor eventually settles in Sandy Shores, Blaine County, where he establishes a small criminal enterprise that smuggles weapons and manufactures methamphetamine, which he hopes will grow into a large empire. Due to raging abandonment issues, Trevor surrounds himself with two loyal friends that he kidnapped and brainwashed from their previous lives named \"Nervous\" Ron Jakowski and Wade Hebert. Trevor also enters an uneasy truce with his competitors in Sandy Shores, including The Lost Motorcycle Club led by Johnny Klebitz, the Varrios Los Aztecas gang, and the O'Neil Brothers.\n\nNine years after the fateful heist, Trevor finds out that Michael faked his death, and is so spooked and enraged that he breaks the truce and kills most of his competition in one burst of violence, a deadly streak that continues when a potential game-changing deal with the Triads falls through. He drives to Los Santos, taking over the apartment and ruining the life of Wade's cousin Floyd, and reunites with Michael, who now took on the name \"De Santa\". After Michael introduces Trevor to Franklin Clinton, the two perform heists again, this time including Franklin. Trevor is determined to rob anything guarded by Merryweather Security Consulting, a private security firm that he dislikes, but he often fails. After not getting paid for a job, Trevor kidnaps Patricia, the wife of kingpin Martin Madrazo. Due to her kind maternal nature and his own abandonment issues, Trevor falls in love with her and only returns her after much demanding from Michael. However, the two stay in contact until the end of the game.\n\nTrevor eventually discovers that Michael set him and Brad up, and that Brad is not in jail but buried in Michael's fake grave. This leads to Trevor vowing to kill Michael, but needing him alive for one last heist. When that heist is successful, Trevor is so pleased that he lifts the death vow but still hates Michael. Near the end of the game, Franklin is given a choice: kill Trevor, kill Michael, or let them live and face their enemies. If the latter is chosen, Trevor kills Federal Investigation Bureau (FIB) agent Steve Haines, before capturing Weston, and killing him alongside Michael and Franklin. Trevor once again considers Michael his friend, albeit a friend that he hates, which Michael accepts. If the second option is chosen, Trevor ends all contact with Franklin and says to stay away from him after finding out about Michael's death. If the first option is chosen, Franklin meets up with Trevor, before chasing him with Michael to an oil plant. When Trevor crashes into an oil tank, causing himself to be covered in oil, either Franklin or Michael shoot the oil, setting Trevor alight and killing him. If Trevor and Michael are spared, they continue to spend time together with Franklin, during which Trevor eventually admits that he over-reacted after learning the truth about Brad, and refers to himself and Michael as friends.\n\nTrevor appears as a main character in \"Grand Theft Auto Online\", the online multiplayer mode of \"Grand Theft Auto V\". He provides missions to the player character once they reach Rank 13; after the player steals Trevor's rolling meth lab, Trevor demands that they are to complete jobs for him to settle the issue. The jobs that Trevor demands generally consist of stealing drugs from rival groups, specifically the Lost Motorcycle Club, while killing the dealers. The narrative of \"Grand Theft Auto Online\" is set several months prior to the events of the single-player story.\n\nTrevor's character was met with generally positive feedback following the release of \"Grand Theft Auto V\". \"Edge\" singled out Trevor as the stand-out of the three protagonists, which they owed to his volatile personality. Like \"Edge\", Caroline Petit of \"GameSpot\" considered Trevor \"a truly horrible, terrifying, psychotic human being—and a terrific character.\" \"Eurogamer\"'s Tom Bramwell, however, felt that Trevor undermined the other characters because he was a \"shallow and unconvincing\" sensationalised anti-hero, and that \"his antics derail[ed] the narrative\" and overshadowed the character development of Michael and Franklin. Xav de Matos of \"Joystiq\" found all three characters unlikable to the extent that they had an alienating effect on the story, noting that \"though each character has a valid motivation for his journey, it's difficult to want them to succeed.\" He also felt that the ambivalence between Trevor and Michael was a tired device by the conclusion of the story as it became a \"seemingly endless cycle\" of conflict between them.\n\nLucas Sullivan of \"GamesRadar\" praised Trevor for being the first character in the series that \"makes sense\". He stated that, upon their first playthrough of a \"Grand Theft Auto\" game, most players \"carjacked some poor schlub, then started doing 90mph on the sidewalk, mowing over civilians\", as opposed to playing peacefully. \"Trevor's existence isn't a commentary on any group of people–he's just the first logical fit to the way people have been playing \"GTA\" games for the past decade,\" he said. Sullivan concluded that Trevor is one of the few protagonists in \"Grand Theft Auto\" that would willingly execute popular player actions, such as murder and violence. Trevor has been compared to many other characters in video games and films. Calvin Khan of IGN compared Trevor to Heath Ledger's Joker in the 2008 film \"The Dark Knight\". Khan felt that Trevor is the only character in \"Grand Theft Auto V\" not trying to fake his persona, stating \"Trevor absolutely knows that he's a monster but just doesn't care. He enjoys causing misery and harm, lives for it and embraces it and – much like Heath Ledger's Joker – he exists purely for unadulterated anarchy.\" He also felt that Trevor's only reasoning for hurting people and messing everything up around him is simply because it's just too much fun not to. Khan concluded saying that it's clear that the world through the eyes of Trevor is already royally broken and he sees no harm in messing it up some more, hence the reason for Trevor's actions.\n\nTrevor won the Cheat Code Central's 7th Annual Cody Awards for \"Best Male Character\" and was nominated for various other awards. Those include the Spike VGX 2013 for \"Character of the Year\", won by \"BioShock Infinite\"'s Lutece Twins, \"Hardcore Gamer\"'s Game of the Year Awards 2013 for \"Best New Character\", won by \"The Last of Us\"'s Ellie, and \"Destructoid\"'s Best of 2013 for \"Best Character\", also won by the Lutece Twins. Steven Ogg was also nominated for his work as Trevor in Spike VGX 2013 for \"Best Voice Actor\", won by Troy Baker, \"Telegraph\" Video Game Awards 2013 for \"Best Performer\", also won by Troy Baker and 10th British Academy Video Games Awards for \"Performer\", won by Ashley Johnson.\n\nThe mission \"By the Book\" from \"Grand Theft Auto V\" was criticised for its depiction of torture. In the mission, Trevor interrogates a man named Ferdinand Kerimov (called Mr. K) for information about a suspected Azerbaijani fugitive who poses a threat to the FIB (the game's version of the FBI). Trevor uses torture equipment on the restrained man, which players select from a table. Once Mr. K provides the FIB with the information, Trevor is asked to kill him, but instead drives him to the airport, providing him an opportunity to escape. While driving Kerimov, Trevor monologues about the ineffectiveness of torture, pointing out Kerimov's readiness to supply the FIB with the information without being tortured, and expressing that torture is used as a power play \"to assert ourselves\".\n\nReviewers echoed that while the mission served as political commentary on the use of torture by the United States government, its use of torture was in poor taste. GameSpot's Petit felt that placing the torture scene in context with the monologue created a hypocrisy in the mission's function as a commentary device, and IGN's MacDonald felt it \"pushed the boundaries of taste\". In an editorial, Bramwell discussed whether the political commentary was overshadowed by the violent content, comparing the mission to \"\"s \"\" controversy. He considered the sequence lacking enough context to justify its violence and summarised its function as \"flawed\". Labour MP Keith Vaz expressed concern that underage players could be exposed to the mission. Keith Best of Freedom from Torture said the torturer role-play \"crossed a line\". Tom Chick defended the torture sequence, and wrote that unlike the \"No Russian\" mission or the 2012 film \"Zero Dark Thirty\", the underlying political commentary on torture in \"By the Book\" necessitated the violent content.\n"}
{"id": "59119288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59119288", "title": "Vinod Khanna filmography", "text": "Vinod Khanna filmography\n\nThis article is about filmography of Indian actor Vinod Khanna.\n"}
{"id": "34597092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34597092", "title": "Wilfrid Nelson Isaac", "text": "Wilfrid Nelson Isaac\n\nWilfrid Nelson Isaac (30 March 1893–15 June 1972) was a New Zealand jeweller, enameller, metalworker and art school director. He is known for several public commissions for silver pieces, such as important trophies, and ecclesiastical items. Trained in the Arts and Crafts movement, he often incorporated New Zealand's indigenous styles, elements and materials such as Maori and opals. He was born in Kyneton, Victoria, Australia.\n"}
{"id": "46423992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46423992", "title": "William Linegar", "text": "William Linegar\n\nWilliam L. Linegar (1871 – 1951) was a cooper, union leader and politician in Newfoundland. He represented St. John's West in the Newfoundland House of Assembly from 1924 to 1928.\n\nLinegar was born in St. John's. Sometime after 1906, he became president of the Cooper's Union. He ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the Newfoundland assembly as a Workingmen's Party candidate in 1919. He was defeated in a subsequent by-election and again in 1923 before being elected in 1924 as a Liberal-Conservative. In 1928, Linegar was named to the Board of Liquor Control. He became president of the Cooper's Union again in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "2288426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2288426", "title": "William Tranter", "text": "William Tranter\n\nWilliam Tranter (1816 – January 7, 1890) was a British gunmaker and gun designer famous for inventing the Tranter Revolver.\n\nBorn in Oldbury in Worcestershire, William Tranter was the eldest son of a blacksmith. Birmingham was for many years the centre of arms manufacture in England and in 1830, at the age of 14, Tranter was apprenticed to the gunsmithing firm of Hollis Bros & Company. In 1839 a small legacy allowed him to buy out another Birmingham gunsmith.\n\nTranter went into partnership with his former employers, John and Isaac Hollis, in 1844. The partnership dissolved five years later, and Tranter is known to have had an extensive manufactory, together with sales offices, at 50 Loveday Street between 1854 and 1860.\n\nBy about the year 1853 Tranter had manufactured over 8000 Adams double-action revolvers under licence. Together with James Kerr, Tranter developed modifications to the Adams action and about 1853 he made the first of his double trigger, double-action revolvers. The first model was built on an Adams frame and featured a detachable rammer which fitted onto the frame. His next model featured a rammer secured by a keyed peg on the frame and a hook on the barrel. In 1855 he also manufactured his own version of the Beaumont–Adams revolver, known as the Tranter-Adams-Kerr. \n\nAfter 1856 he began production of his third model double trigger revolver, with a more streamlined frame and screw-secured rammer. At the same time he developed his fourth model, a single trigger, double-action revolver based on the same frame.\n\nAt the time the size of revolvers was typically described by the bore instead of the term calibre which is used today. The bore size equates to the number of lead balls of a particular diameter that can be cast from one pound (454 g) of lead. Tranter's most common bores were:\nWith the onset of the American Civil War, the Confederate States began buying British arms in quantity and Tranter's high-quality weapons were much esteemed. The New Orleans importers Messrs Hyde & Goodrich and A. B. Griswold & Co (who later manufactured his own pistols) distributed Tranters. Tranter also produced percussion rifles that used a revolver cylinder instead of a magazine. These rifles were produced in various configurations including both single and double trigger mechanisms.\n\nTwo Tranters were carried by the famous detective Allan Pinkerton, whose detective agency protected U.S. officials prior to the creation of the U.S. Secret Service. He is said to have armed his men with Tranter double trigger revolvers. An engraved and nickel-plated Tranter model 1879, marked \"Made for W.A. Pinkerton by Thos M. Tranter. 16 Weaman St., Birmingham\" is thought to have been presented to William A. Pinkerton, one of Allan’s sons.\n\nTranter continued to produce percussion revolvers well after the introduction of cartridge revolvers since many shooters were more comfortable with the old system, which was also cheaper. However, in 1863 Tranter secured patents for revolvers using the rimfire system, some of the first in Britain. Tranter's rim-fire revolvers ranged from small caliber single- and double-action revolvers to the large solid frame model 1863 revolver in .442 in (11.2 mm) caliber. Tranter began manufacturing center fire revolvers in 1868.\n\nIn late 1867 Tranter constructed a new, larger facility on Lichfield Road in Aston Cross, called \"The Tranter Gun and Pistol Factory\", although business continued to be conducted at the old location for some time. At that time Tranter's was the most extensive pistol-making business in the Midlands. Tranter produced over 20 different pistols of his own design, together with other designers' guns under contract. He had government contracts for the official British Snider Rifle, and in 1878 was granted a government contract for a solid frame .450 centre fire revolver for use by the British army. He supplied weapons of every kind to the gun trade in general, including overseas markets. \n\nBetween 1849 and 1888 Tranter made 24 patent applications. Nineteen of those were for cartridge weapons including bolt-action rifles and machine guns, as well as his famous revolvers. \"Tranter was certainly in the very forefront of rook rifle development and production.\"\nTranter was a substantial property owner and a founding member of the Birmingham Small Arms Company Ltd., of which he was a director in its early years. As a prominent member of the Birmingham small arms trade he was called as a witness before a parliamentary committee on small arms in 1854.\n\nTranter retired in 1885 and died on January 7, 1890. His factory was leased by his friend George Kynoch and was renamed The Kynoch Gun Factory. In 1888 the name was changed to the Aston Arms Factory, which had ceased by 1900 when the factory was occupied by the Clipper Automatic Tyre Co. The factory was ultimately demolished in 1961. \n\nWilliam Tranter's own son, William Grosvener Tranter, registered at least two firearms patents but appears to have been only slightly interested in the gun industry. However William's son-in-law, Thomas William Watson, was joined his by brother in 1884 to form the arms company of Watson Brothers. William's nephews, Walter Tranter and Alfred William Thompson and Thomas Musgrove Tranter formed an arms firm called Tranter Bros. Gunmakers in Birmingham in 1900. The firm, which also sold bicycles in the 1890s, closed in 1957.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1717060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1717060", "title": "Yuliy Kim", "text": "Yuliy Kim\n\nYuliy Chersanovich Kim (; born 23 December 1936, Moscow) is one of Russia's foremost bards, composer, poet, songwriter for theater and films. His songs, encompassing everything from mild humor to biting political satire, appear in at least fifty Soviet movies, including \"Bumbarash\", \"The Twelve Chairs\", and \"An Ordinary Miracle\", as well as the songs \"The Brave Captain,\" \"The Black Sea,\" \"The Whale-Fish,\" \"Cursed Lips,\" \"Captain Bering,\" and \"Baron Germont Went to War.\" Since 1998, he has been living in Israel and has made periodic tours through Russia, Europe, and the United States.\n\nKim was born in 1936 in Moscow to Kim Chersan (1904–1938), a journalist of Korean descent, and Nina Valentinovna Vsesvyatskaya (1907-1974), a teacher of Russian language and literature who came from a Russian family of doctors. Her grandfather Vasiliy Vsesvyatskiy was a protoiereus of the Russian Orthodox Church in the Ugodsko-Zavodsky Uezd of the Kaluga Governorate who baptized Georgy Zhukov. \n\nParents of Kim were victims of the Great Purge of 1937 and 1938, in which his father was executed and his mother was sentenced as a \"family member of a traitor of the Motherland\" to five years in a labor camp and three years of exile, so that Kim didn't see her until age 9. She was rehabilitated during the Khrushchev Thaw period in 1958, but before that, she was under the \"101st kilometer\" law and could not live in Moscow, so Kim's family settled in Maloyaroslavets, Kaluga Oblast. In 1951, the family moved to Turkmenistan. Kim returned to Moscow in 1954 to enter the Moscow State Pedagogical Institute.\n\nIn 1959, Kim graduated from the Department of History and Philology of Moscow State Pedagogical University. During his student years, he began writing poems and setting some of them to music. Upon graduation, he was sent to teach in the village of Il'pyrsky, Kamchatka, near Anapka, where he taught for three years. He taught history, literature, geography, and other subjects, and also directed a number of musical plays with the schoolchildren. Since then, the sea has become one of the main themes of his songs.\n\nIn 1969, he signed An Appeal to The UN Committee for Human Rights.\n\nAfter returning to Moscow, Kim worked as a school teacher, and at the same time participated in the Soviet dissident movement, which cost him his job in 1968. Subsequently, Kim earned a living by writing songs for plays and movies as well as publishing plays under the pseudonym Yu. Mikhailov, which he used until 1986. At the same time, while he was barred from giving concerts, he continued his singing underground.\n\nWith the advent of glasnost, Kim was finally able to perform legally. Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, he has been acclaimed throughout the Russian-speaking world and has performed in numerous locations in Russia, Europe, and the United States. He has received numerous awards, such as the Bulat Okudzhava Prize of the Russian Federation.\n\nToday, Yuliy Kim's discography includes over 20 titles on CD, audio and video tape, and DVD. His songs have been included in almost all anthologies of author’s song as well as many anthologies of modern Russian poetry.\n\nHis first wife was Irina Yakir — granddaughter of Red Army commander Iona Yakir. They married in 1966, and in 1998 they immigrated to Israel. After Irina's death in 1999, Kim married Lidia Lugovaya, Irina's close friend since school days. He currently splits his time between Jerusalem and Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "42180202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42180202", "title": "Đorđe Ćurčija", "text": "Đorđe Ćurčija\n\nĐorđe Obradović (; d. 1804), known as Đorđe Ćurčija (Ђорђе Ћурчија) or Ćurta (Ћурта), was a commander in the First Serbian Uprising (1804).\n\n"}
