{"id": "18878014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18878014", "title": "1913 Gettysburg reunion", "text": "1913 Gettysburg reunion\n\nThe 1913 Gettysburg reunion was a Gettysburg Battlefield encampment of American Civil War veterans for the Battle of Gettysburg's 50th anniversary. The June 29–July 4 gathering of 53,407 veterans (~8,750 Confederate) was the largest ever Civil War veteran reunion, and \"\"never before in the world's history \"[had]\" so great a number of men so advanced in years been assembled under field conditions\"\" (Chief Surgeon). All honorably discharged veterans in the Grand Army of the Republic and the United Confederate Veterans were invited, and veterans from 46 of the 48 states attended (cf. Nevada and Wyoming). Despite concerns \"that there might be unpleasant differences, at least, between the blue and gray\" (as after England's War of the Roses and the French Revolution), the peaceful reunion was repeatedly marked by events of Union–Confederate camaraderie. President Woodrow Wilson's July 4 reunion address summarized the spirit: \"We have found one another again as brothers and comrades in arms, enemies no longer, generous friends rather, our battles long past, the quarrel forgotten—except that we shall not forget the splendid valor.\"\n\nAfter numerous smaller Gettysburg reunions, including the 1906 Philadelphia Brigade/Pickett's Division reunion during which Brig. Gen. Lewis Armistead's captured sword was returned to the South, in April 1908 General Henry S. Huidekoper of Philadelphia suggested a 1913 50th anniversary reunion to Pennsylvania Governor Edwin Sydney Stuart. On September 8, the Gettysburg National Park Commission met with Gettysburg borough officials about the event, Stuart conducted a sub-committee meeting on October 25, and Stuart addressed the General Assembly in January 1909.\n\nOn May 13, 1909, the Pennsylvania Assembly created the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg Commission, and the commission's \"first tentative programme\" of October 13, 1910 included a \"Peace Jubilee\" with noon July 3 placement of the cornerstone for a \"Great Peace Memorial\". The August 26, 1912, US Congress bill appropriated $150K and directed the War Department establish the camp, but the memorial funding was not approved and the \"Peace Jubilee\" plans were removed from the schedule. The site for the camp and the for the Great Tent west of the Codori House were selected in 1912 and mapped by the Gettysburg National Park Commission. The Park Commission also completed painting of avenue fencing, gun carriages, iron tablets, pyramids, and shells from 1912 through June 30, 1913. On April 13, 1913, the Pennsylvania commission completed the Pennsylvania State Memorial and also mailed 40,000 veteran's invitations. On June 28, President Woodrow Wilson notified the Pennsylvania commission he would attend the reunion for a \"very limited period\". The 33 contributing states provided a total of $1,033,000 for the reunion ($450,000 from Pennsylvania).\n\nThe Pennsylvania commission headquarters at Gettysburg was at 231 Baltimore St, with the Harrisburg office of the Secretary (later nicknamed the \"Duke of Gettysburg\") in Pennsylvania State Capitol Room 509. Various commemorative tokens and programs were developed for attendees, including 3 types of Pennsylvania badges (\"PRESS\", \"GUEST\", \"SCOUT\"), a commemorative medal, and a souvenir program of poems by the attending \"Veteran Scout\", Jack Crawford. The Pennsylvania Railroad Company also added \"a telephone line between Gettysburg and Hanover along the Western Maryland Railway, over which the Pennsy [would] operate a large number of trains during the battle anniversary\". On the Chambersburg-Gettysburg turnpike and the Gettysburg-Petersburg turnpike, tolls ended in time for the reunion when on June 27, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court upheld the 1911 Sproul Roads Act, by which the Commonwealth acquired private toll roads.\n\nBy February 1, 1913, water wells were being drilled for the July encampment, and by June 26 hotels in Hanover, Chambersburg, Hagerstown, and \"the Blue Ridge section [were] filling rapidly\". For entertainment, a Gettysburg facility was started in 1912 to display the Boston version of the Gettysburg Cyclorama, and the now lost \"The Battle of Gettysburg\" black & white film of 1913 was first run at Walter's Theatre on June 26. Local planning for the reunion included expanding the Gettysburg hackman's tax to automobiles (upheld by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in 1914), a 50 cent maximum for taxi fares in the borough, and an obscure request from a few Missouri veterans regarding the availability near Gettysburg of \"a few good widows or old maids … good housekeepers and not too young\" to go west after the reunion (the \"kind-hearted mayor\", J. A. Holtzworth, agreed to forward photos to the veterans in the \"Cupid … operations\")!\n\nThe War Department's Great Camp (Gettysburg Encampment, Anniversary Camp, Veterans Camp) provided tents and support facilities for the Civil War veterans and extended from both sides of Long Lane on the north to within 500 yards of the Bliss House. The Great Camp included the Great Tent (Big Tent, 200 x 450 ft) \"with its thirteen thousand chairs\"; the veterans' tents; quarters for 1,466 War Department soldiers (including camp commander Gen. Liggitt) & 2,179 mess personnel; 385 camp Boy Scouts from Washington; and other camp personnel for a total of 57,198 \"\"persons quartered and subsisted in the Great Camp\". The camp had a temporary U. S. Post Office; 90 Pennsylvania Health Department latrines throughout the camp with a seating capacity of 3,476; and near the Great Tent, an Emergency Station and 2 Comfort Houses of the health dept, which also supplied the Great Tent water fountains. The Pennsylvania commission also set up a temporary morgue in the camp. A special platform on the Round Top Branch was built for veterans to disembark from steamtrains directly into the camp (in February, trolleys of the Gettysburg Electric Railway had been prohibited from using the branch).\n\nAfter the state health department's Chief Engineer had estimated Gettysburg (pop. 4,500) would be inundated with 100,000 people, the borough agreed to the Commissioner of Health's request for his department to take over medical and sanitation efforts in the area from June 25-July 25. The department set up a field hospital at the Kurtz property facing Brickyard Lane on the north foot of East Cemetery Hill, as well as 6 Comfort Stations in the borough (1 at each railroad station), with a total of ~100 hoppers. The department also tested borough wells and mitigated contamination sources upstream of the Water Works supply on Marsh Creek. The American Red Cross Society, along with 72 additional Boy Scouts operated fourteen 7 ft x 7 ft Relief Stations for first aid and rest on the battlefield park roads, and the Tuberculosis Dispensary in Gettysburg was also used as a Relief Station.\n\nAttached to the Great Camp were a battery of the Third United States Field Artillery and several companies of Regular Infantry. Companies A-D (14 officers & 285 men) of the Fifteenth United States Cavalry arrived on June 26 for guarding the battlefield and camped west of Seminary Ridge on the Hagerstown Rd, while a \"model Camp\" for a Pennsylvania cavalry squadron was on the \"College Athletic Field\" adjoining the Commission's Headquarters. A total of 527 people were quartered at both the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg & the Pennsylvania College (\"Gettysburg College\" in 1921), including the Pennsylvania Gettysburg Commission, 4 troops of Pennsylvania State Police, and in tents, Governor Tener's staff. Additional nearby encampments included the leased Newspaper Row (\"Meadeboro\") with 155 journalists north of the Gettysburg National Cemetery, an encampment of 30 Boy Scouts near Cashtown west of Gettysburg for traveler services on the Chambersburg-Gettysburg Pike, and Philadelphia and Baltimore salvation army encamped in Stonesifer's Grove at Biglerville, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Great Camp opened for supper on June 29 with Pennsylvania veterans from the state reunion that adjourned on June 28 and other early veterans (e.g. 2 Confederate vets of Culp's Hill had arrived on June 26). The 21,000 arrivals on the 29th instead of the 6,000 expected by Capt McCaskey of the Quartermasters Corps resulted in initial shortages (some veterans left without staying). After the 1912 base of the Virginia Monument was dedicated on June 30, official reunion events began on July 1, Veteran's Day, and included a speech by John Wanamaker.\n\n\n\n\nDepartures included 12,000 veterans on July 2 and about the same number on July 3, and dismantling of the Great Camp began immediately after the July 4 Tribute. The hospital closed on July 5, and the last veteran left on July 8. The annual military instructional camp (250 college students) used a few tents of the veterans camp while encamped at the \"Meadeboro\" camp (Newspaper Row) from July 7-August 15. The Quartermaster headquarters on Baltimore St closed on August 13, and by August 15 the entire Grand Camp had been removed except \"four great water storage reservoirs\". A movie, \"United at Gettysburg\", documented the reunion, and Lt Col Lewis E. Beitler, Secretary of the Commission, completed the compilation of the organizations' reports on the December 31, 1913.\n\nTo commemorate the 1913 Gettysburg reunion, a colonial portico was opened in May 1914 at the Seminary's Old Dorm (only the concrete base remains), and the 1938 Eternal Light Peace Memorial was erected on Oak Ridge, north of Gettysburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "13549258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13549258", "title": "Bantenese people", "text": "Bantenese people\n\nThe Bantenese are a distinct subgroup of the Sundanese people, native to Banten Province on the island of Java. The area of Banten province corresponds more or less with the area of the former Banten Sultanate, a Banten nation state that precedes Indonesia. In his book \"The Sultanate of Banten\", Guillot Claude writes on page 35: “These estates, owned by the Bantenese of Chinese origin, were concentrated around the village of Kelapadua.” Most of Bantenese are Sunni Muslim.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Population Census carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics Indonesia, the Bantenese people along with the Baduy people are categorized under the Native Bantenese people with a total of 4,657,784 people.\n\nThe origins of the Bantenese people; which are closely related to the Banten Sultanate, are different from the Cirebonese people whom are not part of the Sundanese people nor the Javanese people (unless it is from the result of a mixture of two major cultures, namely Sundanese and Javanese). The Bantenese people along with the Baduy people (Kanekes) are essentially sub-ethnics of the Sundanese people that occupies the former region of the Banten Sultanate (region of Bantam Residency after the abolishment and annexation by the Dutch East Indies). After the formation of the Banten Province only did people began to regard the Bantenese as a group of people with a culture and language of their own.\n\nThe most dominant language is Sundanese. The indigenous people living in Banten Province speak a Sundanese dialect derived from archaic Sundanese language. The dialect is classified as informal or harsh layer in modern Sundanese language, having different layers as Javanese language.\n\nDue to the influence of the Javanese culture during the reign of the Islamic Mataram kingdom, the Sundanese language - especially in the Parahyangan area - have different layers starting from the most formal, or \"halus/lemes\" version, to the everyday \"loma/lancaran\" version and the informal or harsh version. Mataram Sultanate tried to take control over Java island, including Banten territory covering the whole West Java region. But the Sultanate of Banten could defend its territory except Parahyangan area. In the mountainous regions and most of present-day Banten, the loma version of Sundanese language is the most dominant. By contrast, this version is considered \"harsh\" by people from Parahyangan. Bantenese language is commonly used especially in the southern region of Banten such as Pandeglang Regency and Lebak Regency.\n\nHowever, around Serang and Cilegon, Banten Province, a dialect of the Javanese language, the Banyumasan is also spoken by about 500,000 people. And, in Northern part of Tangerang, Indonesian language with Betawi dialect is also used by Betawi immigrants. Besides Sundanese, Javanese and Betawi dialect, Indonesian language is also widely spoken especially by other ethnic immigrants from other parts of Indonesia especially in urban centers.\n\nThose who considered themselves as Bantenese are generally practicing Muslims, which is due to being inseparable from a strong Islamic cultural background. This case is also closely related to the history of Banten Sultanate as one of the largest Islamic kingdom in the island of Java. Besides that, the artistry in Banten region also portrays Islamic activities of its society, such as art Rampak Bedug from Pandeglang Regency. Even so, Banten Province is a multi-ethnic society consisting of various ethnics and religions. Adherents of other faiths from various non-indigenous ethnic groups live alongside each other peacefully in this region, such as the Benteng Chinese community in Tangerang and the Baduy people that practices Sunda Wiwitan in Kanekes, Leuwidamar, Lebak Regency.\n\nThe land of Banten is rich in culture and customs, and one of the most dominant is the Bantenese culture and customs which forms the majority in Banten province.\n\nThe cultural distinctiveness of the Bantenese community among other is Pencak Silat martial arts, Debus, Rudad, Umbruk, Saman dance (Dzikir Saman), Tari topeng, Dog-dog, Angklung Gubrag, Rampak Bedug, Walijamaliha dance, Silat Pandeglang dance, Palingtung, Lojor, Beluk and so on.\n\nIn addition, there are also relics of ancestral heritage, and among them are such as the Great Mosque of Banten, the Sacred Long Mausoleum and many more.\n\nBantenese culinary includes Sate Bandeng, Rabeg Banten, Pasung Beureum, Ketan Bintul, Nasi Belut, Kue Cucur, Angeun Lada, Balok Menes, Sate Bebek Cibeber, Emping Menes and others.\n\nThe pattern and motifs of Bantenese batik is the illumination of decorative design that have been studied by the Banten government as part of the framework of rediscovering ornamental motifs from traditional Bantenese houses. These decorative designs came about as a result of the reconstructions from the excavations made by the National Archaeology and the Faculty of Literature, Universitas Indonesia since 1976. The decorative designs are then decided by the Banten governor in 2003.\n\nEver since its patenting in 2003, Bantenese batik has undergone a long process until it was finally recognized globally. The Bantenese batik was patented after it was predicated through studies done in Malaysia, Singapore and then followed by another 62 countries. In fact, Bantenese batik was the first batik with patent rights in the UNESCO.\n\nBantenese batik possesses the storytelling identity and its own uniqueness in comparison to other batiks. Several of its motifs are adopted from historical artifacts. Grayish colors can be found in every motifs, which is supposed to reflect the Banten community. All of the batik contains philosophical meaning.\n\nNames of the Bantenese batik motifs are taken from the toponym of ancient village names, the title of nobles or sultan and the name of the court palace of Banten. Even the patterns are synonymous with historical stories that contain meaningful philosophies and on the motifs bears intellectual meaning for the wearer of Bantenese batik materials and clothing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41020140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41020140", "title": "Behavior imaging", "text": "Behavior imaging\n\nBehavior imaging is a technique used in behavioral health to diagnose, treat and monitor behavioral disorders, most commonly autism. It involves capturing short video clips of problem behaviors in natural environments on smartphones or other devices.\n"}
{"id": "35104377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35104377", "title": "Bilakura language", "text": "Bilakura language\n\nBilakura is a nearly extinct Papuan language of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "31132006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31132006", "title": "Cinco Días con Nuestra Tierra", "text": "Cinco Días con Nuestra Tierra\n\nFeria Agrícola Educativa Cinco Días con Nuestra Tierra is a five-day agricultural fair held every year in the University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez. The event is organized and worked by volunteer students, alumni, professors, and personnel, the university collaborate in an institutional level and collaborates in other matters. Hundreds of thousands of people attend the fair, the majority being school excursions, environmentalist and agricultural clubs, elderly groups, communities, impaired children, churches and general public interested in learning agriculture. Federal and local agencies also participate, such as the \"Autoridad de Desperdicios Sólidos\", \"Servicio de Extensión Agrícola\" and the Department of Agriculture, among others.\n\nThe Feria Agrícola Educativa Cinco Días con Nuestra Tierra began being celebrated in 1977, fully organized by students, professors and associations of the agriculture faculty of the university. The event at its beginning took place in the lobby of the \"Jesús T. Piñero building\", main building of the College of Agricultural Sciences since then the fair has evolved into one of the most important agricultural fairs in Puerto Rico.\n\n"}
{"id": "20029730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20029730", "title": "Circolo Speleologico Romano", "text": "Circolo Speleologico Romano\n\nThe Circolo Speleologico Romano (CSR) is an Italian, non-profit speleological organization dedicated to the exploration, research, and conservation of caves. The CSR is one of the oldest caving groups in Italy. Its activity has contributed to the birth and the increase of the Italian Speleology\n\nThe Circolo Speleologico Romano (CSR) was founded on the 5th of July 1904 by Guido Cora, the illustrious geographer and brave mountain climber, Baron Carlo Franchetti, Alessandro Datti and others. Immediately the CSR established relationships with other European groups, especially Swiss, French and Belgium sharing the exploration of the Abruzzo region (Luppa’s cave, Val de Varri’s Cave) and in France. The first major exploration campaigns outside Italy, of the Anatolia caves, began after the First World War leading to important biological discoveries. In this period the bio-spelological activity received a strong acceleration especially due to the two associates Patrizi and Cerruti. More than 200 new species of troglobites carry the name of CSR associates. Since the beginning of the exploration activity all the data collected about each cave has been organized in the cave cadastre. In the 90s the regional cave cadastre was passed to the Federazione speleologica del Lazio. In 1924 the club published its first bulletin, detailing the explorations and the scientific activities of its associates. This bulletin (renamed Notiziario del Circolo Speleologico Romano in 1946) is exchanged with the publications of similar organizations in more than 40 nations around the world, continually expanding the social library of the association. In 1954 for its merits in scientific field, to the fulfilment of its 50 year of activity, the CSR was named \"Ente Morale\" by decree of the President of the Italian Republic Luigi Einaudi.\nIn the 1960s the CSR began to mount large international expeditions (1962 Gouffre Berger in France, 1963 in Lebanon, in 1964 Ojo Guareña in Spain and then Poland, Turkey, Albania. Since 1969 its research in Chiapas (southern Mexico) has been particularly relevant, where it has explored and surveyed more than 60 km of new caves. The bio-speleological results of these activities are published in three volumes of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei with the title “Subterranean Fauna of Mexico”.\nTo commemorate the 100th year of activity of the Circolo Speleologico Romano Poste Italiane has produced a special stamp in 3.5 million of pieces.\n"}
{"id": "74010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74010", "title": "Demographics of Bulgaria", "text": "Demographics of Bulgaria\n\nThe demography of the Republic of Bulgaria is monitored by the National Statistical Institute of Bulgaria.\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Bulgaria, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nBulgaria has a very high Human Development Index of 0.813, ranking 51st in the world in 2018 and holds the 38th position in \"Newsweek\"'s rankings of the world's best countries to live in, measuring health, education, political environment and economic dynamism.\n\nVarious estimates have put Bulgaria's medieval population at 1.1 million in 700 AD and 2.6 million in 1365. The latest 2011 census, the population inhabiting Bulgaria is 7,364,570 in total. The peak was in 1989, the year when the borders opened after a half of a century of communist regime, when the population numbered 9,009,018.\n\nIn 2016 a total of 64,984 live births were recorded in Bulgaria. The country has a crude birth rate of 9.1‰. \n\nSeventy years ago (in the census of 1946), Bulgaria had a crude birth rate of 25,6‰. Ethnic Bulgarians (23,3‰) had a much lower crude birth rate compared to the two largest minorities: Turks (40,9‰) and Roma (47,2‰). However, it is unlikely that this difference continued since then, as birth rates in the Balkan countries dropped sharply. \n\nBulgaria has a low total fertility rate of 1.54 children per woman (at the end of 2016). This is up significantly from the late 1990s, but still below replacement and not enough to prevent further population decline, especially with emigration. Provinces with large Roma populations (for example Sliven, Montana and Yambol) tend to have higher fertility rates (and higher death rates) compared to other areas, whereas Turkish fertility is similar to the Bulgarian majority.\n\nAs of 2017, the municipality of Nikolaevo has the highest crude birth rate with 18.6‰, followed by Tvarditsa (16.7‰) and Kaynardzha (15.7‰). All these municipalities have relatively large Romani populations.\nOn the other hand, the municipalities of Georgi Damyanovo, Banite and Nevestino have a extremely low birth rates. These municipalities are almost exclusively inhabited by ethnic Bulgarians.\n\nBulgaria has one of the highest share of teenage pregnancy in Europe. Nevertheless, this number is declining rapidly in recent years. \n\nThe ten municipalities with the largest absolute number of teenage mothers are: Sliven (373), Sofia (339), Plovdiv (245), Pazardzhik (161), Stara Zagora (141), Nova Zagora (131), Burgas (108), Yambol (106), Haskovo (96) and Varna (86). \n\nThe following forecast for the future population is an official estimate of the National Statistical Institute of Bulgaria.\nThe progressive decrease of the Bulgarian population is hindering economic growth and welfare improvement, and the management measures taken to mitigate the negative consequences do not address the essence of the problem. The Government Program for the period 2017 - 2021 is the first one that aims at overturning the trend. The program also identifies the priority means for achieving this goal: measures to increase the birth rate, reduce youth emigration, and build up regulatory and institutional capacity to implement a modern immigration policy tailored to the needs of the Bulgarian business.\n\nNote that the distinction between Sarakatsani and Greeks, and between Vlachs and Romanians, is fluid. Sarakatsani were counted as Greeks in the 1900, 1920, 1926, 1934, and 1965 censuses.\nThe censuses in 1880, 1887 and 1892 did not have a question on ethnic affiliation.\nThe following table shows the ethnic composition of all Provinces of Bulgaria according to the 2011 census:\n\nThe 2001 census defines an ethnic group as a \"community of people, related to each other by origin and language, and close to each other by mode of life and culture\"; and one's mother tongue as \"the language a person speaks best and usually uses for communication in the family (household)\".\nAccording to the 2011 census, among the Bulgarians 99.4% indicate Bulgarian as a mother tongue, 0.3% - Turkish, 0.1% - Roma and 0.1% others; among Turks 96.6% have pointed the Turkish as a mother tongue and 3.2% - Bulgarian; among the Roma 85% indicate Roma language as a mother tongue, 7.5% - Bulgarian, 6.7% - Turkish and 0.6% - Romanian.\n\nBulgaria's traditional religion according to the constitution is the Orthodox Christianity, while Bulgaria is a secular state too. Since the last two censuses (2001 and 2011) provide widely divergent results, they are both shown in the table below. It is noteworthy that over a fifth of the population chose not to respond to this question in the 2011 census.\n\nThe results of the Bulgarian 2011 Census, in which the indication of answer regarding the question for confession was optional, are as follows:\nThe results of the Bulgarian 2001 Census by ethnic groups, the latest census in which the indication of identification(whether by confession or as irreligious) in the question for confession was obligatory, are as follows:\n\nIn relation to internal migration, according to the 1910 census, 300,000 or almost 10% of the ethnic Bulgarians were born in another Bulgarian municipality than the one they were enumerated in. The same data shows that the foreign-born ethnic Bulgarians numbered 78,000, or 2% of them, most numerous of whom were the 61,000 Ottoman-born, 9,000 Romanian-born and by less than 2,000 Austro-Hungarian, Serbian and Russian-born. By the 1926 census, there had been 253,000 refugees with granted households and land or citizenship but with many more in towns of uncertain number. 35% came from Eastern Thrace, 30% came from Aegean Macedonia, another 18% from Western Thrace, 8% from Dobruja, 4% from the Western Outlands, 3% from Asia Minor, and 2% from Vardar Macedonia. They constituted 6% of the country's population. In 1940, 70,000 Bulgarians were exchanged from Northern Dobruja. The total number of refugees in 1878-1940 is estimated at between 700,000 and 1,200,000.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Russian citizens are the most numerous foreigners - 11 991, followed by 8 444 EU citizens (UK- 2 605, Greece - 1 253, Germany- 848, Poland - 819 and Italy - 456), citizens of Ukraine - 3 064, Republic of Macedonia - 1 091, Moldova - 893 and Serbia - 569. 22.8% of them are from Asia, mostly from Turkey. Those with dual Bulgarian and other citizenship were 22 152, or 0.3% of the population. Of them persons with Bulgarian and Russian citizenship were 5 257 (23.7%), followed by persons with Bulgarian and Turkish citizenship - 4 282 (19.3%), Bulgarian and citizenship of the USA- 1 725 (7.8%). There are at least 17,527 Refugees of the Syrian Civil War with applications in Bulgaria. In 2001-2015 185,447 people applied for Bulgarian citizenship and 116,222 were provided with. 113,647 were granted on grounds of proven Bulgarian ancestry, including 59,968 Republic of Macedonia citizens. 29,218 were Moldovan citizens, 5930 Ukrainians, 5374 Serbians, 5194 Russians, 3840 Israeli, 2192 Albanians, 692 Turks and others. In 2016, 12,880 foreigners were naturalized, including 6196 Macedonians.\n\nPopulation by country of birth:\n\nForeigners by nationality:\n\nAverage life expectancy at age 0 of the total population.\n\nAt the 2011 census the largest decadal age group of the identified as Romani people is the 0–9 years old or 21% of them, the same age group accounted for 10% of the Turks and 7% of the Bulgarians. Experts estimate that the Romani in some provinces make up 40% of all aged between 0 and 9 years. Amongst those who did not answer the question on\nethnic group lowest is the share of people aged 60+ years. \nBulgarian children constitute the majority of all children in 23 out of 28 provinces. They constitute more than ninety percent of all children in two provinces: Sofia (city) (92%) and Pernik Province (90%).\n\nTurkish children constitute the majority in Kardzhali Province (68% of all children) and Razgrad Province (50% of all children); they also constitute the largest group of all children in Silistra Province (43%). \n\nRoma children constitute 12% of all children in Bulgaria and more than a quarter in three provinces: Montana (29%), Sliven (28%) and Yambol (27%). \n\nBulgaria is ageing rapidly, especially in some remote rural areas. \n\nThe ageing of the population leads to an increase of the median age. The median age is 43.6 as of 2017, up from 40.4 years in 2001. \n\nOf the total 7,364,570 as of 2011, 3 586 571 are males and 3,777,999 are females, or there are 1053 women for 1,000 men.\n\nOver 98% of the population is literate, the males being more literate than the females.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, about 112,778 people aged nine or more are illiterate. There are considerable differences in the share of illiterate persons amongst the three main ethnic groups. Amongst the Bulgarian ethnic group the share of illiterate is 0.5%, amongst the Turkish - 4.7% and amongst the Roma ethnic group - 11.8%. About 81 thousand people aged seven or more never visited school. \n\nThe median unemployment for the country in 2011 was 10.1%.\n\nThe number of unemployed people declined to 207 thousand people (or around 6.2% of the population) in 2017. \n\nMost unemployed people are aged 15 to 24 years old.\n\nThe unemployment rate in rural areas (around 10.0%) is nearly two times higher than the unemployment rate in urban areas (approximately 5.1%). \n\nVidin Province has the highest unemployment rate with almost one fifth of its labour force being unemployed. The provinces of Shumen (15.9%), Silistra (12.5%) and Targovishte (12.4%) have also very high unemployment rates.\n\nAccording to Eurostat, 82.3% per cent of the population live in privately owned and owner-occupied homes, ranking it as 12th highest in ownership globally. It is down from a recent peak of 87.6% in 2008, and has been steadily falling since. The number of Internet users has increased rapidly since 2000—from 430,000 their number grew to 1.55 million in 2004, and 3.4 million (48 per cent penetration rate) in 2010. Bulgaria has the third-fastest average Broadband Internet speed in the world after South Korea and Romania with an average speed of 1,611 KBps. Currently there are three active mobile phone operators—Mtel, Telenor and Vivacom, Mtel is the largest one with 5.2 million users as of 2010, Telenor has 3,9 million as of 2007 and Vivacom over 1 million.\n\nBulgaria's HIV rate is among the lowest in the world, being 0.1% or 3,800 infected as of 2009.\n\nMost Bulgarians (72.5 per cent) reside in urban areas. Approximately one-sixth of them live in Sofia, which has a population exceeding 1,200,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10177432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10177432", "title": "Designated Suppliers Program", "text": "Designated Suppliers Program\n\nThe Designated Suppliers Program (DSP) is a procurement standard proposed by the Worker Rights Consortium and United Students Against Sweatshops. The program was designed to promote the use by US universities of suppliers that make use of a defined set of fair labor practices. It was established in response to the widespread use of sweatshop labor in the production of university-branded clothing and other goods. A full description of the DSP, as it currently stands, can be accessed here.\n\nThe DSP has been endorsed in principle by a number of universities in the US, and is under active consideration by others.\n\nAttempt to convince the administration at the University of North Carolina resulted in a sit-in by members of the UNC chapter of Student Action with Workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26078564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26078564", "title": "Frejon", "text": "Frejon\n\nFrejon (From \"Feijão\", which is the Portuguese word for beans) is a coconut milk and bean soup which is eaten especially during Holy Week by a selection of Christians, mostly Catholics, across the world. Countries where Frejon is popular include Brazil and Nigeria (especially among Yoruba who returned to Nigeria from Brazil at the abolition of the slave trade, and settled in what is known as the \"Brazilian Quarters\" in Lagos Island), and also Sierra Leone on Good Friday, or for functions such as weddings. Because dairy foods and flesh meat (beef, pork, goat) are strictly forbidden on Good Friday, this dish is a suitable accompliment to non-dairy foods such as fried fish and peppered snail.\n\nThe frejons consumed in Nigeria and West Africa are puddings made of black beans cooked slowly overnight over a wood or charcoal fire, and then mixed with coconut milk to form a thick, sweet, smooth pudding. In certain countries the dish is flavored with cocoa. The beans are boiled to a thick soft paste and blended with coconut milk. Frejon is often served with fish stew, peppered snail and Garri Ijebu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11096600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096600", "title": "Garanganze people", "text": "Garanganze people\n\nThe Garanganze, Yeke or Bayeke are a people of Katanga, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. They established the Yeke Kingdom under the warrior-king Msiri, who dominated the southern part of Central Africa from 1850 to 1891 and controlled the trade route between Angola and Zanzibar from his capital, at Bunkeya.\n\nMsiri and his people were originally Nyamwezi traders from around the Tabora who migrated to Katanga to reach the source of copper, ivory and slaves to trade. They took over and merged with a Wasanga chieftainship and established a powerful base by conquering neighbouring tribes.\n\nIn 1891, Msiri was killed by the Stairs Expedition sent by King Leopold II of Belgium to take possession of Katanga for his Congo Free State. Many of the Yeke dispersed, with some settling in the Luapula Valley and the western shores of Lake Mweru around the Garanganze Missions of the Plymouth Brethren, led by Dan Crawford. Others who had been regarded as the Yeke were reabsorbed into the Wasanga ethnic group. Consequently, the Yeke or Garanganze now number only about 20,000 and speak Kisanga and Swahili, Yeke (Kiyeke) now being a language that is used only for ceremonial occasions.\n\nThe Garanganze still maintain the Mwami Mwenda chieftainship at Bunkeya, after it was exiled by the Belgian colonial authorities for some years to the Lufoi River. The chieftainship is named in honour of Msiri whose full name was \"Mwenda Msiri Ngelengwa Shitambi\". The current chief who was enthroned in 1997 is Mwami Mwenda VIII, named Mwenda-Bantu Godefroid Munonga. \n\nThe official history of the Garanganze claims that the chieftainship survived despite neglect and opposition from the Belgian colonial authorities. However other sources say that the Belgians, whose first treaty in Katanga was with Mwami Mwenda II Mukanda-Bantu whom they had installed after killing Msiri, used the chieftainship to bolster colonial rule, conferring on the chiefs an importance which the Yeke, a relatively small tribe, did not warrant from their numbers.\n\nMwami Mwenda VI Godefroid Munonga was involved in the Katanga secession crisis and was appointed Minister of the Interior of the breakaway state. After Katanga was reunited with the Congo, he was imprisoned by Mobutu for a few years and after his release he was enthroned as chief in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "16084576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084576", "title": "Gender roles in Sri Lanka", "text": "Gender roles in Sri Lanka\n\nAll ethnic groups in Sri Lanka have many distinctions regarding the roles of the sexes.\nSri Lanka was the first nation in the world to elect a female head of state, Sirimavo Bandaranaike. Bandaranaike won the election in 1960 after S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike, the preceding leader who was also her husband, was murdered by a spy.\n\nWhile Sri Lanka relatively excels when it comes to gender equality indices, there are still many underlying issues pertaining to gender inequality in Sri Lanka.\n\nMany Women in Sri Lanka choose to work, while some choose to work at home and care for children. In families relying on agriculture, women are in charge of weeding and help with the harvest. Among poor families, women also perform full-time work for upper class individuals. Moreover, the man's role used to be seen as providing his family with material support by looking after his business. \n\nAt the center of the hierarchy are children, who mix freely and receive a great deal of affection from both sexes. Among the middle- and upper-income classes, education of children may last into their early twenties, and women may mix with males or even take on jobs that were in the past reserved for men. For poorer income children, they may go to work at an earlier age.\n\nIn comparison to other countries in the region, Sri Lanka is ranked well on several gender equality indices. However, there are also some sources that question the validity of these indices. Furthermore, globally, Sri Lanka ranks relatively low on gender equality indices. Overall, this pattern of social history that disempowers females produces a cycle of undervaluing females, providing only secondary access to health care and schooling and thus less opportunities to take on high-level jobs or training. In a study by Dr. Elaine Enarson, this cycle in turn worsens the issue of low political participation and social rights.\n\n (Data as of 1988.)\n\n"}
{"id": "6090270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6090270", "title": "Gopichand (actor)", "text": "Gopichand (actor)\n\nTottempudi Gopichand (born 12 June 1979), more popularly known as Gopichand, is a Telugu film actor.\n\nHe is popularly referred to as Action Star and Macho Star.\n\nBorn in Kakaturivaripalem near Tanguturu Prakasam district.He is the younger son of the filmmaker T. Krishna and was 8 years old when his father died. He completed his studies in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. He studied engineering degree in Russia. His elder brother T. Premchand was working as an associate director to \"Muthyala Subbaiah\". Premchand made his debut as director and started working on a film under his home banner, but he died in a car accident. Gopichand was in Russia during the death of his elder brother and could not attend his funeral due to Visa problems. He also has a younger sister, who is a dentist. After completing his engineering, he decided to enter the film industry.\n\nHe did dialogue modulation course for a year. Then he made his debut as hero with the Telugu movie \"Tholi Valapu\". In his next movie \"Jayam\" he portrayed a villain. Later on he acted as a villain in \"Varsham\". He made re-entry as hero with the movie \"Yagnam\" which established him as an actor.His next movies were \"Ranam\" in 2006 \"Lakshyam\" in 2007,in which he improved his acting and dancing skills. His next film, \"Souryam\", was released in September 2008. Next year, he acted in \"Sankham\", which released on 11 September 2009. His next movie, \"Golimar\", was released on 27 May 2010. In 2011, he acted in \"Mogudu\" and \"Sahasam\" in 2013. His biggest commercial hit was in 2014 with \"Loukyam \". He acted in two films \"Jil\" , \"Soukhyam\" in 2015, which was a dud at box office. The year 2017 was huge success to Gopichand, where he bagged Goutham Nanda and Oxygen which were both content related. The film Aaradugula Bullet was slated to release this year but the project got shelved In 2018, he starred in the film \"Pantham\", which was his 25th film. It flopped at the box office.\n\nHe married Reshma, niece of actor Srikanth, on 12 May 2013. They have a son named Virat Krishna.\n"}
{"id": "35101837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35101837", "title": "Gypsy Woman (film)", "text": "Gypsy Woman (film)\n\nGypsy Woman is a 2001 film written by Steven Knight, filmed on location in London and The Isle of Man. It is a romantic comedy, set against the backdrop of the Black Mountains, Wales.\n\n'Leon Hawthorne (Davenport) is a recently widowed property developer left to raise his young daughter on his own. While at a coroner’s inquest into the death of one of his workers, Leon meets the dead man’s widow, Natalie (McIntosh). A bright and exotic woman, Natalie’s beauty captivates Leon and after the verdict of the court case comes, he sets out to track the widow down. This brings him into the countryside and on an unexpected journey full of humour, danger and self-discovery as he enters the world of the gypsies... With the help of Leon’s and Natalie’s daughters, they just might manage to sort it out.' \n"}
{"id": "38524435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38524435", "title": "Haji language", "text": "Haji language\n\nHaji (Aji) is a Malayan language spoken on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia. A third of the vocabulary is derived from Lampung.\n"}
{"id": "762302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762302", "title": "Homeless shelter", "text": "Homeless shelter\n\nHomeless shelters are a type of homeless service agency which provide temporary residence for homeless individuals and families. Shelters exist to provide residents with safety and protection from exposure to the weather while simultaneously reducing the environmental impact on the community. They are similar to, but distinguishable from, various types of emergency shelters, which are typically operated for specific circumstances and populations—fleeing natural disasters or abusive social circumstances. Extreme weather conditions create problems similar to disaster management scenarios, and are handled with warming centers, which typically operate for short durations during adverse weather.\n\nHundreds of homeless individuals die each year from diseases, untreated medical conditions, lack of nutrition, starvation, and freezing to death. In a mild-wintered San Francisco in 1998, homeless people were purportedly 58% more likely to perish than the general population. In New Orleans, approximately 10,000 homeless were unaccounted for after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Residents of homeless shelters may also be exposed to bed bugs which have been growing more prevalent in countries such as the United States, Canada and in Europe. Some residents of shelters have reported sleeping in roach-infested spaces at various shelters.\n\nIn Washington, D.C., statistics indicate that 63% of homeless people suffer from a lack of access to regular bathing. Another estimated 58% within the same city are unable to obtain sufficient levels of sleep. Areas such as showers and bathrooms in shelters often have restricted access with limited hours. Homeless individuals also have great trouble finding storage locations for their belongings. Homeless individuals in the United States are subject to being arrested and held in jail for “quality of life” violations or for public intoxication. In Hawaii, homeless people are banned from sitting or lying on the streets.\n\nThe LGBT homeless are at increased risk of violence compared to other groups. Transgender people are also at danger of being placed into the incorrect shelters. In some cases, transgender women can be turned away from women's shelters. This can place their safety at risk.\n\nIn a national survey conducted in the United States the findings showed that of the surveyed homeless, two-thirds are men and most likely to be single adults between the ages of 25 and 54.\n\nOne out of every four men experiences domestic violence. In addition, young men who have been abused as children are more likely to become homeless and are at risk of becoming chronically homeless if they are not living in a permanent situation by age 24.\n\nWomen are at great risk of both homelessness and poverty because they are most likely to bear child-rearing responsibilities and vulnerable to become victims of family members or “intimate partners.” In a survey conducted in the 2013 showed that in an emergency shelter in Texas, women were the majority population, though this is not a trend reflected in the majority of the country.\n\nHomeless women, both those with children and without, experience higher rates of physical illness than men. They are also more likely to be hyper-vigilant and have high levels of stress. Women seeking refuge from domestic violence are not always able to find rooms in shelters. Some women have been turned away from homeless shelters because shelter staff believe that turning women away will stop people from having sex inside the shelter.\n\nHomeless women who are of childbearing age also face unique hygiene issues because of menstruation. Homeless shelters have noted that both tampons and sanitary pads “top the list of needs at shelters” because of their high cost and because they are not donated often.\n\nThe homeless shelters across the country act merely as emergency shelter systems that can only hold a fraction of the rapidly increasing homeless population. The Housing First practice provides an alternative to the current network of homeless shelters. The program targets the large problem within the United States which is a lack of affordable housing. This methodology attempts to place homeless families back into independent living situations as quickly as possible. The Housing First practice has achieved success due the fact that homeless families are more responsive to social services support once when they are in their own housing. It provides crisis intervention, affordable rental housing, and gives each family a grace period of six months to a year of social service to allow the family to get back on their feet. The effectiveness of this concept is that it assists homeless families in identifying their needs and recognizing the choices they must make. From this point families can create better options for themselves and plan strategies for living on their own.\n\nSome shelters propose “empowerment models,” where instead of serving “clients,\" they empower “participants.” The goal is to become agents in their own futures and destinies.\n\nSuch models tend to focus on assisting participants to access their rights and to fulfill their responsibilities as citizens. Sometimes this includes contributing financially towards the provision of the shelters they are residing in. In Australia, legislation requires those residing in Government funded shelters to contribute a figure similar to 25% of their own income, in return for support and accommodation. Consequently, many shelters in Australia rely on participant contributions for as much as 20% of their budgets.\n\nAnother model is Dorothy's Place in Salinas, CA. It is actually a day center which coordinates with multiple church and synagogue congregations to link up to night time shelter opportunities. Dorothy's Place is closely affiliated with faith based community service groups, including the Franciscan Worker and Companions of the Way Interfaith Dharma community. They propose that they are in search of “possibilitarians,” a theme resonating with the prominent ministry of “possibility thinking” promoted by Reformed Church of America minister Robert Schuller.\n\nThe Rescue Mission in Milwaukee, Minnesota is an extreme example of helping the homeless through religion. In order to receive a free meal at the Rescue Mission, residents must first attend a Christian prayer service.\n\nThe Salvation Army is a social support service organization that also functions as a religious group. The programs of the Salvation Army are designed to assist women, children, elderly men, families, and those who are battling drug addictions.\n\nAround the late 2000s, in Santa Barbara and other areas in California, groups of recently homeless began to camp out in their cars in parking lots with the coordinated support of a local non-profit group. These individuals and families were often unable to afford rent or mortgage, but still had jobs, cars, insurance and other types of support structures. In Santa Barbara, an estimated 55 individuals camped out every night in various private and public lots, some reserved for women only. As more people began to camp in their vehicles, California cities began to pass laws against sleeping in vehicles, like the 2013 ordinance passed in Palo Alto. However, many of these laws in different municipalities were later struck down in higher courts as unconstitutional, like the Los Angeles ban which was judged by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in 2014. Some cities chose to repeal their own bans on sleeping in vehicles. In Los Angeles in 2015, approximately 9,500 homeless have turned their cars into homes. In Hawaii, a Honolulu-based company is retrofitting five retired city buses into mobile shelters which provide a place to sleep and get a shower.\n\nCommunity attitude towards homeless shelters varies widely, but one study found that older people, men, homeowners and all people making larger incomes were often adverse to the concept of homeless shelters in general. Calgary neighborhoods recognize the need for shelters, but many don't want to situate a shelter near their own homes. A similar response came from residents in Oahu. In communities such as Portland, Oregon, where the weather can be quite harsh, there is an extensive network of supporters. These operate an informal restaurant, the \"Sisters of the Road\" cafe, which supports both homeless shelter residents and also some unsheltered persons. At the opposite end of the spectrum, jurisdictions such as Santa Barbara, California, feature ongoing disputes in an often highly adversarial mode. Disputes have even reached such schemes as re-arranging benches on city sidewalks to discourage panhandlers. In another 2011 incident, an eight unit supportive housing project which had been approved was called back onto city council agenda the following week in order to allow approximately 35 public comments pro and con, despite the fact that the measure had just been approved.\n\nThere have at times been concerns raised about the transmission of diseases in the homeless population housed in shelters, although public health professionals contend that such concerns are inflated. In addition, a study published in 2014 conducted in Marseille, France found that respiratory illnesses in homeless shelters were not significantly different from the general population. In addition, during the peak influenza months, the shelter occupants did not test positive for the flu virus and the researchers hypothesize that being isolated from others may have been the reason they were virus-free. However, outbreaks of tuberculosis in have been reported occurring in shelters within three large Ohio cities in the 1990s.\n\nA question has been raised as just how much money donated to the charities that run the shelters actually gets to the homeless people and the required services. In many cases, there is a large overhead in administrative costs, which compromise the money for their homeless clients.\n\nThere is sometimes corruption and theft by the employees of a shelter as evidenced by a 2011 investigative report by FOX 25 TV in Boston wherein a number of Boston public shelter employees were found stealing large amounts of food over a period of time from the shelter's kitchen for their private use and catering. Residents have reported that personal items, such as underwear, were stolen by other residents while they were occupied.\n\nShelters can become dangerously overcrowded when too many occupants are allowed entry to the shelter.\n\nShelters sometimes are unable to meet state standards for occupancy, such as testing fire sprinklers or ensuring that exits are clearly marked. In New York city, 2015, the state withheld funding from many shelters which did not meet standards or which had poor conditions.\n\nShelter employees are sometimes at risk from violence perpetrated by the residents they are serving. In order to address problems faced by employees who are trying to help the homeless in New York, the Department of Homeland Security increased security at some shelters and conducted security assessments of shelters in 2015. While many employees of shelters know that there is a risk when working in high-crime neighborhoods or with individuals who are mentally ill, they continue to work at homeless shelters because they feel that they are performing a public service akin to the police or firefighters.\n\nSeveral problems emerge when a homeless shelter is present. Homeless shelters have been argued by some to have a negative effect on nearby businesses. Businesses for years have complained that they frequently witness pedestrians being stopped outside their stores by homeless people begging for money. Such instances have led to the creation of local laws that prohibit “aggressive panhandling.” Another problem is that it is often difficult to decide on where a homeless shelter should be built and how to zone the area where a shelter can be built. \n\nNeighborhoods, as well as schools, argue that homeless shelters bring in bad elements to their surroundings. There are additionally far too many shelters that have become nothing but housing facilities; they fail to provide job training or education that would assist the homeless population with gaining their own housing. Housing through homeless shelters offers no lasting solutions, just temporary ones. Drugs and alcohol also tend to surround homeless shelters. Most shelters prohibit residential use of illegal drugs and alcohol, but enforcement is sporadic in many locations. Lastly, no classification system for shelters has been put into effect. There are no mechanisms or facilities to separate those who have mental illnesses from the rest of the shelter population.\n\nIn the United States, the \"shelter movement\" began to grow significantly during the 1970s when there was a high rate of unemployment, housing costs were rising and individuals with severe mental illnesses were being deinstitutionalized. In the 1980s, homelessness was becoming a \"national epidemic\" in the United States and helping professionals created shelters as \"temporary havens.\" Shelter occupation had more than doubled by the late 1980s and it doubled again by 2000. Statistics from 2011 show that \"on a given night in January 2010, 407,966 individuals were housed inside homeless shelters, transitional housing or on the streets. Alternatively, jails have been used for healthcare enrollment by citizens in certain states. Simultaneously, organizations such as Interfaith Services have provided low income postal service boxes to aid in receiving missing ID cards obtained by pro-Bono legal service organizations such as the Colorado ID project.\n\nHomeless shelters need to provide a variety of services to diverse residents. Homeless shelters, like La Posada Providencia in San Benito, Texas, may also house asylum seekers, mainly from Mexico, Central America and South America. Shelters also provide outreach to residents who are unable to use a shelter or who choose not to use a shelter. Outreach may include providing clothing for cold weather or food. Very few shelters have case managers that locate resources locally, such as rides to a department of social services where healthcare can be acquired. \n\nMost shelters typically expect residents to exit in the morning and occupy themselves elsewhere during the day, returning for an evening meal and to sleep. During times of inclement weather, shelters may provide services outside of their normal hours. Curfews vary widely but tend to be at an earlier hour than adults typically might return to a home. There are also daytime-only homeless shelters, where the homeless can go when they cannot stay inside at their night time sleeping shelter during the day. Such an early model of a daytime homeless shelter providing multi-faceted services is Saint Francis House in Boston, Massachusetts which was officially founded in 1984. It was based on the settlement house, clubhouse and community center support and social service models.\n\nIn the United States, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has shown in recent studies that about 5 million Americans qualify to use homeless shelters. As poverty levels continue to rise, it is estimated that the number of homeless shelters, in particular in the United States, will continue to rise. Based on a survey of 24 U.S. cities the average stay in a homeless shelter was found to be on average about seven months out of the year.\n\nA study by the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty estimates that 2.3 to 3.5 million Americans experience homelessness annually. Alaska, California, Nevada, Oregon, Colorado, and Hawaii are the states with the highest concentration of homeless people. Around 1.5 million children or one of out every 50 children in America are homeless. Many Americans suffer from the state of “chronic homelessness,” which is where an individual has a disabling condition who has been continuously homeless for over a year or has been homeless on at least four different instances within four years. About 23% of the homeless population has been tagged as “chronic homeless.” Veterans also represent close to 40% of homeless men within the United States. Racial demographics of the Homeless Population of the United States can be represented as:\n\nApproximately 40% of all homeless youth in the United States identify as LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender). In San Francisco, approximately 29% of all the homeless in that city are on the LGBT spectrum. The National Center for Transgender Equality reports that 1 in 5 transgender individuals has experienced being homeless at least once in their lives.\n\nPet ownership among the homeless varies, but estimates indicate that about 5 and 10 percent of the homeless in the United States have a pet.\n\nHomelessness appears to be largely concentrated within urban areas. Central cities hold 71% of the homeless population while the suburbs have 21% of the homeless population. Only 9% of the homeless class can be located within rural areas.\n\nHomeless shelters are usually operated by a non-profit agency or a municipal agency, or are associated with a church. They almost always have Section 501(c)3 corporate organization with a Board of Directors pulled from various sectors of the community. Often, such Boards include clergy, elected officials, and even shelter residents and people from the surrounding community.\n\nShelters which are funded by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) require residents to have identification.\n\nHomeless shelters often provide other services to the community at large. The classic example is the soup kitchen for persons who are not staying at the shelter. Others include support groups, and/or substance abuse treatment. If they do not offer any of these services, they can usually refer their clients to agencies that do. Supportive housing integrates services in a more assertive fashion. The typical pathway through the interlocking system is that a person may start in a shelter and move through transitional housing into supportive housing and finally independent housing.\n\nCenters in the United States are also often coordinated with outside programs both for their mission-specific operations and for ancillary services. For communication of their availability, most coordinate with the Federally mandated 2-1-1 or the 3-1-1 phone information system which allow needy persons to find out where shelters are located. For transportation to shelters, some offer free transportation,[15] particularly in cases of persons being released from jail. Some jails have specific staff assigned to placement of persons being released. \n\nAcross the United States there are several national organizations that assist in the founding and the upkeep of homeless shelters. The main national organizations are: \n\nHomeless shelters often work with other organizations in order to support and help the homeless improve their situations, including libraries. They often work with the coalition to grant a temporary library card for homeless coalition members who can use a shelter as a local address. This is intending to give new patrons the opportunity to utilize the computer services, books, programs, and more that the library offers.\n\nHomeless individuals within the United States are assisted through various Federal programs. Examples include the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSD) and the Social Security Supplemental Income (SSI) programs. Such applicants may qualify through their medical records. The Social Security Disability Insurance service extends benefits to families if they have earned sufficient work “credits.” The Social Security Supplemental Income service offers financial assistance towards individuals in need who are disabled, blind or elderly.\n\nHUD estimates that it costs $60,000 each year to house a homeless family in a shelter. Because of this, HUD has various programs in place to help families, including rapid rehousing and permanent housing vouchers. Housing vouchers from HUD are considered especially important for helping to prevent families with children from becoming homeless and also to help these families be able to leave the shelter system permanently.\n\nThe Department of Veterans Affairs is solely aimed at helping homeless veterans. Although this organization assists a specific concentration of individuals, it currently constitutes the largest network of homeless treatment within the United States.\n\nIn Australia, due to government funding requirements, most homelessness services fill the role of both daytime and night time shelters. Shelters develop empowerment based \"wrap around\" services in which residents are case managed and supported in their efforts to become self-reliant. An example of such a service provider in this area in Australia is Najidah.\n\nYouth refuges in Australia provide both a residential setting for crisis accommodation as well as case management to assist young people to live independently. Youth refuges are a relatively new form of homeless shelters. In New South Wales the early refuges include Caretakers Cottage, Young People's Refuge, Taldamunde Youth Services, all founded in the mid-1970s.\n\nCanada has an estimated homeless population somewhere between 150,000 and 300,000 people as reported in 2014. Canada has responded to an increase in homelessness by increasing the amount of shelter space available to individuals. A study done in Canada also found that individuals entering shelters and drop-in centers experienced a loss of their own sense of personhood. Therapeutic Conversation therapy has been tested and found successful in Calgary with a small group of homeless shelter residents in improving their mental health outcomes. Calgary has seen an increase in the amount of homelessness, partly due to the \"lack of affordable rental units.\"\n\nA nationwide volunteer group in Canada, the Angels in the Night, sponsored by Invis-Mortgage Intelligence, donates cold-weather clothes and other supplies to the homeless, visiting shelters and individuals on the streets.\n\nIn 2015, Clean the World began a Canadian Operations Center in Montreal order to supply soap for homeless shelters. Clean the World distributes and recycles hygiene supplies such as soap and shampoo.\n\nIn China, homeless estimates vary, since the Social Welfare Department does not consider those living in temporary shelters to be \"homeless.\" There may be approximately 1 to 1.5 million homeless children who have left their families because of extreme poverty, family issues or abuse.\n\nIn the city of Dali, there is an annual conference for \"beggars.\" In 2014, a government-sponsored shelter in Henan province which houses 20 homeless individuals was under scrutiny for tying children to trees and providing inadequate sleeping areas.\n\nIndia defines homelessness as not being in residence of a \"census house\" which must be a structure with a roof.\n\nIn India, youth can become homeless because of child abandonment. Youth in Jammu and Kashmir who live in shelters reported high prevalence of emotional and physical abuse, and emotional and physical neglect while living in homeless shelters.\n\nHomeless individuals and families in India face challenges accessing water and hygiene services. A 2011 Census of India found that safe drinking water coverage in urban areas is at 91.9% while regular sanitation access is at 81.4%. There is a significant lack of housing in major urban areas in India. People come from the rural part of India to look for work and when there are no accommodations for housing build their own shelters, often known as \"hutments.\"\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, there were 1.77 million homeless people in India, or 0.15% of the country's total population. In India, the cities with the greatest number of homeless individuals and families are Greater Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, and Bangalore.\n\nThe number of homeless individuals in Japan as recorded in 2003, was around 25,296. Numbers of those without homes have been \"increasing dramatically\" since the \"bubble economy\" collapsed in the 1990s. In Tokyo, around 2007, many homeless individuals were cleared out of their temporary residences in city parks. In 2011, the earthquake and tsunami left many individuals homeless and living in shelters.\n\n\"Sleeping rough\" or \"rough sleeping\" is terminology in the United Kingdom for sleeping without shelter. In addition, \"not all homeless people are entitled to housing.\" Shelters like 'Jimmy's', in Cambridge, provide access to those who would otherwise be \"sleeping rough\", offering temporary accommodation and support services in the basement of a Baptist Church in the city centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34603565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34603565", "title": "Iyaelima people", "text": "Iyaelima people\n\nIyaelima people are an ethnic group with a population of about 2,500 that live in eight settlements in the southern part of the Salonga National Park (SNP) in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThey belong to the Mongo group of Bantu peoples.\nAlthough they practice slash-and-burn agriculture and hunt for bushmeat, they have little impact on the environment.\nThe Iyaelima never kill bonobos, an ape closely related to humans whose population is much higher in Iyaelima territory than elsewhere.\n\nThe Salonga National Park was established as the Tshuapa National Park in 1956, and gained its present boundaries with a 1970 presidential decree by President Mobutu Sese Seko.\nIt was registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1984.\nMost of the Salonga National Park is accessible only via river.\nThe region in the southwest of the park occupied by the Iyaelima is accessible via the Lokoro River, which flows through the center. The Lokolo River defines the northern boundary and Lula River the south.\n\nWhen the SNP was established, most of the inhabitants were expelled but the Iyaelima managed to remain.\nThe Iyaelima had gained a reputation as ferocious warriors, which they were careful to cultivate. They were allowed to stay under a law that categorizes them as \"wildlife\".\n\nThe park structure is based on the American National Park model in which wilderness areas are cleared of their indigenous inhabitants. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) has been pressing to do the same with the Iyaelima, the last remaining residents of the SNP.\nThe Iyaelima are hostile to the park, to Institut Congolais pour la Conservation de la Nature (ICCN) personnel who manage it and to the park guards. They have not been informed of park laws, for example prohibiting trade in wild animals, and mainly interact with ICCN personnel over legal problems. Only one of the Iyaelima is employed by the park.\n\nThe Iyaelima are patriarchal, with the men hunting and women farming and doing most of the housework.\nFew of them ever leave their territory, other than a very small number of coffee traders.\nA family will live in a one-room mud hut.\nA typical farm is a half-acre in size, cleared by slash-and-burn, on which they grow cassava, sugarcane and rice.\nMangabeys, colobus, hogs and forest elephant graze in the secondary forest surrounding the Iyaelima settlements.\nAll of these are hunted for food.\nThe Iyaelima mostly use spears or bows and arrows, and are assisted by trained hunting dogs.\nThe preferred prey includes various types of duiker and hogs.\nHowever, bonobos are never killed.\n\nThe \"etoschi\", a council of wise men, make the decisions in a village.\nSorcerers provide protection through witchcraft. Although they cannot destroy an evil spirit they can prevent it from doing harm.\nThe villagers engage in sacred hunts, slaughtering the animals they catch in a sacred ritual on a public altar.\nThey bury their dead beside or underneath the family hut. Until recently they practiced cannibalism to feed their ancestors.\n\nContrary to the views of the WWF and other NGOs, a survey by Jo Thompson of the independent Lukuru Wildlife Research Project concluded that the Iyaelima were helping conserve the environment.\nThe Iyaelima recognise that some sites are magical, inhabited by water or forest spirits or by their ancestral spirits.\nThey do not occupy these locations or hunt in them, and in return the spirits provide protection.\nThey thus create natural animal sanctuaries.\nLake Nkantotsha is a spirit lake of this type.\nHunters are careful to leave areas of forest undisturbed to allow animal populations to regenerate.\nBased on aerial photography, the impact of the Iyaelima on the forest is minimal.\n\nThe Salonga National Park is home to an unusually large group of bonobos, a species of ape that shares 98% of their DNA with humans and are thus our closest non-human relatives. The Iyaelima have a harmonious relationship with the bonobos, whose population is much higher in Iyaelima territory than elsewhere in the park.\nThe Iyaelima recognize that bonobos are similar in many ways to humans, and see them as equally intelligent, but have no feeling of kinship with them and are insulted by the suggestion that they are relatives.\nHowever, they avoid bonobos when they meet them in the forest, thinking the bonobos may beat them up or kill them, just as other ethnic groups might. For this reason, they do not kill bonobos for fear of stirring up conflict with them.\n\nThe ICCN is understaffed in Salonga, with just 137 guards for the entire area, many near retirement age, where at least 1,000 would be needed to enforce conservation laws effectively. The Iyaelima, with their profound local knowledge and track record of conservation may be an effective alternative to guards.\n\n"}
{"id": "915491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915491", "title": "Kern County child abuse cases", "text": "Kern County child abuse cases\n\nThe Kern County child abuse cases started the day care sexual abuse hysteria of the 1980s in Kern County, California. The cases involved claims of paedophile-sex-ring-performed Satanic ritual abuse, with as many as 60 children testifying they had been abused. At least 36 people were convicted and most of them spent years imprisoned. Thirty-four convictions were overturned on appeal. The district attorney responsible for the convictions was Ed Jagels, who was sued by at least one of those whose conviction was overturned, and who remained in office until 2009. Two convicts died in prison, unable to clear their names.\n\nIn 1982, Alvin and Debbie McCuan's two daughters, coached by their step-grandmother Mary Ann Barbour, who had custody of them, alleged they had been abused by their parents, and accused them of being part of a sex ring that included Scott and Brenda Kniffen. The Kniffens' two sons also claimed to have been abused. No physical evidence was ever found. The McCuans and Kniffens were convicted in 1984 and given a combined sentence of over 1000 years in prison. The convictions were overturned in 1996 and the two couples were released. In 2001, a TV movie about the Kniffens titled \"Just Ask My Children\" was aired on Lifetime.\n\nSix similar cases occurred throughout Kern County. For instance, the testimony of five young boys was the prosecution's key evidence in a trial in which four defendants were convicted. John Stoll, a 41-year-old carpenter, received the longest sentence of the group: 40 years for 17 counts of lewd and lascivious conduct. \"It never happened,\" Ed Sampley, one of the accusers, told a \"New York Times\" reporter in 2004. He claimed he had lied about Stoll. Stoll was in prison for 19 years before his conviction was reversed. In 2009, Stoll sued Kern County and was awarded $5 million in compensation. The county paid out nearly $10 million to settle claims made by the former prisoners and the alleged victims. A documentary titled \"Witch Hunt\", which focused primarily on Stoll's case, was produced and released in 2007. MSNBC also made a documentary on John Stoll and the Kern County cases.\n\nSampley and three other former accusers returned in 2004 to the courthouse where they had testified against Stoll, this time to say that Stoll never molested them. In their late 20s, each of them said he always knew the truth—that Stoll had never touched them. However, Stoll's son has \"continued to say that he had been molested.\" In the case, the only defendant with a previous conviction of molestation was Grant Self, who rented Stoll's pool house briefly. John Stoll had to wait until 2004 for the reversal of his convictions, but was released on the new testimony. Self was sent to a mental hospital for sexual offenders because he had two prior convictions for child molestation. Self was freed in 2009. He was re-arrested in 2012 on suspicion of child molestation in Oregon. In July 2013, Self pleaded guilty to sexually abusing three young boys and was sentenced to five years and 10 months in prison.\n\nPrior to the start of the Kern County child abuse cases, several local social workers had attended a training seminar that foregrounded satanic ritual abuse as a major element in child sexual abuse, and had used the now-debunked memoir \"Michelle Remembers\" as training material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18375501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375501", "title": "Khandeyar", "text": "Khandeyar\n\nThe Khandeyar are one of the two groups of the Nenets. They are also known as Forest Nenets or Forest Yurak because they live in the forest region or Taiga instead of the Tundra like the other Nenets. \n\nThe Khandeyar speak the Forest variety of Nenets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004387", "title": "Kumandins", "text": "Kumandins\n\nThe Kumandins also known as the Kumandy, Kumanda, Qumandy and Qumanda are a people indigenous to Central Asia. They reside mainly in the Altai Republic of the Russian Federation.\n\nAccording to the 1926 census, 6,335 Kumandins lived within the territory of Russia. In the 2010 census, the number was only 2,892, but possibly the 1926 census included some related peoples. Some Kumandins, living on the banks of the Biya River, from the Kuu River downstream, almost to the city of Biysk, and along the lower course of the river Katun River, by 1969 were conflated with the ethnic Russian population.\n\nOmeljan Pritsak claimed that \"kuman-\" in the name of the Kumandins is identical in meaning to the names given to the Turkic people, \"Cumans\"-Kipchaks and \"Polovets\" (a Slavic term for Cumans).\n\nHowever, the \"seoks\" (tribes) of the Kumandins have varying origin myths; L. Potapov proposed that they were originally a federation of peoples from different backgrounds: nomadic steppe pastoralists (such as the Cumans), taiga hunters (Chuvash), deer pastoralists (Nenets), and fishers (Tatars).\n\nBy the 17th century, the Kumandins lived along the river Charysh, near its confluence with the river Ob. A subsequent relocation to the Altai was driven by their unwillingness to pay \"yasak\" (financial tribute) to the Russian sovereign. N. Aristov linked the Kumandins – and the Chelkans – to the ancient Turks, \"who in the 6th-8th CC. CE created in Central Asia a powerful nomadic state, which received ... the name Turkic Kaganate\".\n\nPotapov regarded the Kumandins as being related anthropologically to the Uralic peoples, and suggested that they were less East Asian than the Altaians proper. This subjective impression has been borne out to an extent by genetic research suggesting that most Kumandin males belong to Y-DNA haplogroups that are generally found in populations further to the west, such as R1b (although the Kumandins belong to R1b-M73 rather than R1b-M269, the latter being the subclade to which a majority of Europeans belong) and N-P43 (Dulik \"et al.\" (2012) have remarked that, in fact, Chelkans and Kumandins have N-P43 Y chromosomes very similar to ones found in the Ugric-speaking Khanty). However, a majority of mitochondrial DNA lines belonged to the North East Asian haplogroups C or D with also a large minority of west Eurasian lineages such as U5a1 (5/52), H8 (3/52), U4b1b (2/52), X2e (2/52), and T1a (1/52).\n\nSix \"seoks\" have been identified:\n\nAn ancient Turkic legend recorded in the Chinese Zhoushu annals (周書, 636 CE) tells of the origin of the ancestors of the ancient Türks from a state or possession named \"So\", located \"north of the Hun country\" (which, in this case, apparently meant Mongolia).\n\nThe name of the seok Ton is explained as an ethnonym that reflects their economic specialization, as a word meaning \"deer\" and \"reindeer breeder\". The remote ancestors of this Kumandy seok Ton were reindeer breeders, reflected in Kumandy hunting legends and fairy tales, for example about milking deer (which is attributed to the Kumandy's mountain spirits). The memory about breeding and milking reindeer belongs to some remote historical ancestors of a part of Kumandy; they can be explained by participation in the Kumandy ethnogenesis of the southern Nenets tribes, who cultivated riding deer, typically used not only for transport but also for food and dress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10785321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10785321", "title": "Languages of Sri Lanka", "text": "Languages of Sri Lanka\n\nSeveral languages are spoken in Sri Lanka within the Indo-European, Dravidian and Austronesian families. Sri Lanka accords official status to Sinhalese and Tamil. The languages spoken on the island nation are deeply influenced by the languages of neighbouring India, the Maldives and Malaysia. Arab settlers and the colonial powers of Portugal, the Netherlands and Britain have also influenced the development of modern languages in Sri Lanka.\nAs per 2016, the Sinhala language is mostly spoken by the Sinhalese people, who constitute approximately 74.9% of the national population and total about 16.6 million. It uses the Sinhala abugida script, which is derived from the ancient Brahmi script. The Rodiya language, a dialect of Sinhala, is spoken by the low-caste community of chamodi veddhas. The Veddah people, totaling barely 2,500 in 2002, are thought to have once spoken a distinct language, possibly a creolised form of an earlier indigenous language. The Tamil language is spoken by Sri Lankan Tamils, as well as by Tamil migrants from the neighboring Indian state of Tamil Nadu and by most Sri Lankan Moors. Tamil speakers number around 4.7 million. There are more than 50,000 speakers of the Sri Lankan Creole Malay language, which is strongly influenced by the Malay language.\n\nEnglish in Sri Lanka is fluently spoken by approximately 10% of the population, and widely used for official and commercial purposes. It is the native language of approximately 74,000 people, mainly in urban areas. A handful of the 3,400 people of Portuguese descent speak Sri Lankan Portuguese creole. The Muslim community in Sri Lanka widely uses Arabic for religious purposes. Seldom used nowadays is Arwi, a written register of Tamil that uses the Arabic script and has extensive lexical influences from Arabic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2628388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628388", "title": "Leonard Mins", "text": "Leonard Mins\n\nLeonard Emil Mins (? - ?) was an American who worked in the Russian Section of the Research and Analysis Division of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) during World War II. Mins also worked for Soviet Military Intelligence (GRU).\n\nMins joined the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) in 1919 and worked for the Communist movement in Germany in 1920 and 1921. In 1924 and 1925 Mins worked for the Executive Committee of the Comintern as a translator. From 1927 to 1932 Mins did Communist Party work in the United States. In 1934 he transferred his party membership to the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU).\n\nMins was in France in 1938 working with exiled German writers, one of whom was the father of the later notorious East German spymaster and Stasi officer Markus Wolf. In his 1997 memoirs Wolf recalled his old friend as, \"a Communist exile who had been my parents' close friend\" in Russia. \"He had been the channel through which my father was able to communicate with us during his internment in France.\"\n\nMins worked for the OSS from 1942 to late 1943, and worked mostly on a survey of strategic minerals and oil reserves in Asia and the Soviet Union. Mins was the subject of a Dies Committee investigation in 1943. Mins denied being a member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) but admitted he taught at the Workers School, a Communist controlled entity, and served on the editorial board of \"Partisan Review\", had been a member of the John Reed Club, written for the \"New Masses\", and a member of the League of American Writers. Mins admitted he had lived in Moscow from 1934 to 1936 but insisted he only made translations for the Soviet Academy of Sciences.\n\nLeonard Mins cover name in Soviet Military Intelligence, and as deciphered in the Venona project, is \"Smith\". Mins is referenced in the following Venona project decrypts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19780376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780376", "title": "Lister Medal", "text": "Lister Medal\n\nThe Lister Medal is an award presented by the Royal College of Surgeons of England in recognition of contributions to surgical science. It is named after the English surgeon Joseph Lister (1827-1912), whose work on antiseptics established the basis of modern sterile surgery.\n\nThe medal has its origins in the Lister Memorial Fund, started by the Royal Society, which was raised by public subscription after Lister's death, with the object of creating a lasting mark of respect to his memory. In 1920, the Royal College of Surgeons of England became the trustees and administrators of the fund. They were entrusted with the task of awarding a monetary prize and a bronze medal (gold since 1984) every three years, irrespective of nationality, to those who had made outstanding contributions to surgical science. The triennial award is decided by a committee representing the Royal Society, the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, the University of Edinburgh, and the University of Glasgow.\n\nThe Lister Medal, although it is not always awarded to a surgeon, is one of the most prestigious honours a surgeon can receive. The obverse of the medal consists of a representation of a bust of Lord Lister. The reverse side has the recipient's name across centre, and around the edge of the medal is text naming the award along with the dedication:\n\nOn the occasion of the award, the medallist delivers the Lister Oration (sometimes called the \"Lister Memorial Lecture\"). The first award was announced in 1924, with the presentation and the lecture taking place the following year. The most recent award was made in 2015, with a total of 27 people having received the medal to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "37551405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37551405", "title": "Macchanu", "text": "Macchanu\n\nMacchanu ( - \"Mach-chha-nu\"), (; ) is son of Hanuman that appears in the Cambodian, Thai and other versions of the Ramayana.\n\nAs per these versions of Ramayana, during one of the battles with Ravana's army, Hanuman encounters one powerful opponent, who looked like vanara from waist-up but had tail of a fish. After a fierce battle, as Hanuman was about to hit the creature with his weapons, a golden star shining in the sky above, reveals by way of aakashwani that the enemy, whom he is going to harm is his own son born by his union with Suvannamaccha, the mermaid daughter of Ravana. Hanuman, immediately holds his weapons in mid-air and father-son duo recognize each other.\n\nAnother version of story tells, while following Maiyarab in order to find Rama and Laxmana, who have been abducted by Maiyarab and taken to his kingdom in netherworld, Hanuman reaches a pond, where he encounters Macchanu. The fight between them is indecisive, therefore, Hanuman is surprised and asks his opponent, who is he. Macchanu introduces, himself as son of Hanuman and Suvannamaccha and so they finally identify and embrace each other. He tells Hanuman that Maiyarab is his foster father, who had picked him up lying on sea shore, where his mother had left him. Although, he does not want to betray Maiyarab but tells Hanuman through a riddle the entrance to the netherworld lies inside the lotus in the pond he was guarding.\n\n"}
{"id": "21815281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21815281", "title": "Mobile community", "text": "Mobile community\n\nA mobile community is a group of people generally united by shared interests or goals who interact: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27049014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049014", "title": "Myles Fukunaga", "text": "Myles Fukunaga\n\nMyles Yukata Fukunaga was a Japanese-American from Honolulu, Hawaii. In 1928, he kidnapped and murdered George Gill Jamieson, the 10-year-old son of a local banker.\n\nSubsequent to the murder, he demanded a $10,000 ransom. Before the body of the victim was found, the Hawaiian Trust Company offered a reward of $5,000 with no questions asked. Fukunaga eventually received $4,000 in $5 bills from the victim's father before he was arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "38395513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38395513", "title": "Naandi language", "text": "Naandi language\n\nNandi (\"Naandi\"), also known as Cemual, is a Kalenjin language of Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "40082856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40082856", "title": "Naz Baloch", "text": "Naz Baloch\n\nNaz Baloch () is a Pakistani politician who is a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan.\n\nShe has bachelor's degree in economics from St. Joseph's College. Her ethnically Baloch father, Abdullah Baloch, is a high-ranking member of Pakistan Peoples Party, Ex-Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto tenure.\n\nShe joined PTI in August 2011. She contested general election from Karachi for national assembly Constituency NA-240 in May 2013 as a candidate of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf. After getting married on 22 April 2011 she joined PTI in August 2011, turning down the option of joining the family party PPP. She is the only woman in her family to have taken part in party politics, as it is uncommon for Baloch women to take part in public affairs. On 11 May 2013, she was the only women contestant in the constituency and was the runner-up, receiving 21,094 votes. \n\nOn 16 July 2017, Naz Baloch joined Pakistan Peoples Party leaving her party affiliation with Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf.\n\n"}
{"id": "4363383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363383", "title": "Opening ceremony", "text": "Opening ceremony\n\nAn opening ceremony, grand opening, or ribbon-cutting ceremony marks the official opening of a newly-constructed location or the start of an event. Opening ceremonies at large events such as the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, and the Rugby World Cup might involve thousands of participants and be watched worldwide.\nIn the case of physical establishments, its grand opening might be preceded by a \"soft opening\" or \"soft launch\" in which the establishment begins to operate with little promotion, to allow testing of operations, procedures, and facilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8801008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8801008", "title": "Professional conference", "text": "Professional conference\n\nA professional conference is a meeting of professionals in a given subject or profession, dealing with organizational matters, matters concerning the status of the profession, and scientific or technical developments. It differs from an academic conference in having broader goals, and usually a much broader attendance. they are normally sponsored by the professional society in the field, and usually are organized on a national basis. \n\nSome are international, usually organized by federations or groups of the national societies in a subject, such as the conferences held by the International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA). \n\nSome are local, normally by state, province, or other local sections of a national body. \n\nThey are often held annually, or on some other recurring basis. Some of the largest societies hold more than one a year. \n\nOthers are held as a one time event, and are usually devoted to a specific topic. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7548176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7548176", "title": "Public library ratings", "text": "Public library ratings\n\nThere are several national systems for rating the quality of public libraries.\n\nThe basic public library statistics (not rankings) are published by the National Center for Educational Statistics; the most recent version was published in July 2006, using data from fiscal year 2005. As of October 1, 2007, the Institute of Museums and Library Services assumed responsibility for the publication of public library statistics.\n\nA commercial product, \"Hennen’s American Public Library Ratings Information\" (HAPLR), is prepared by Thomas J. Hennen Jr. , Director of Waukesha County Federated Library System in Wisconsin. It is published annually in the November edition of American Libraries, and rates over 9,000 public libraries in the United States based on this data. Libraries are ranked on 15 input and output measures with comparisons in broad population categories.\n\nAn alternative system (the LJ Index of Public Library Service) developed by Keith Curry Lance and Ray Lyons, was introduced in the June 15th 2008 issue of Library Journal. Libraries are rated on four equally weighted per-capita statistics with comparison groups based on total operating expenditures. The four statistics, library visits, circulation, program attendance, and public internet computer uses, were chosen based on correlation analysis. The system awards 5-star, 4-star, and 3-star designations rather than library ranks, due to recognized imprecision of the library statistical data. The LJ Index measures how the levels of services a library provides compares with other libraries. Creators of the LJ Index stress the fact that it does not measure service quality, operational excellence, library effectiveness, nor the degree to which a library meets existing community information needs.\n\nThe HAPLR ratings have drawn significant criticism and praise from members of the library community.\n\nIn Library Journal, Oregon State Librarian Jim Scheppke notes that the statistics that HAPLR relies on are misleading because they rely too much on output measures, such as circulation, funding, etc. and not on input measures, such as open hours and patron satisfaction. He adds \"To give HAPLR some credit, collectively, the libraries in the top half of the list are definitely better than the libraries in the bottom half, but when it gets down to individual cases, which is what HAPLR claims to be able to do, it doesn't work.\" \n\nHowever, John Berry III, in a Library Journal editorial said \"Unfortunately, when you or your library receives any kind of honor, it stimulates the flow of competitive hormones in your professional colleagues. This jealousy rears its ugly head in many ways. We've suffered endless tutorials on the defects in Hennen's rankings. So what? They work!\" \n\nIn a 2008 article in Public Libraries Ray Lyons and Neal Kaske argue for greater recognition of the strengths and limitations of ratings. They point out that, among other factors, imprecision in library statistics make ratings scores quite approximate, a fact rarely acknowledged by libraries receiving high ratings. The authors also note that HAPLR calculations perform invalid mathematical operations using ordinal rankings, making comparisons of scores between libraries and between years meaningless.\n\nA 2006 Library School Student Writing Award article questions HAPLR’s weighting of factors, and its failure to account for local factors (such as a library’s mission) in measuring a library’s success, the index’s failure to measure computer and Internet usage, and its lack of focus of on newer methods of evaluation, such as customer satisfaction or return on investment.\n\nKeith Curry Lance and Marti Cox, both of the \"Library Research Service\", take issue with HAPLR’s reasoning backwards from statistics to conclusion, point out the redundancy of HAPLR’s statistical categories, and question its arbitrary system of weighting criteria.\n\nHennen responded to Lance and Cox in the same issue of American Libraries,saying their \"thesis seems to be that the job of comparing libraries cannot be done, so I am at fault for having tried. Somehow, unique among American public or private institutions, libraries are just too varied and too local to be compared. Yet despite these assertions, the authors urge individuals to use the NCES Public Library Peer Comparison tool (nces.ed.gov/surveys/libraries/publicpeer/) to do this impossible task.\" \n\nThere is some interest in developing an index in Australia and New Zealand\n\nGreat Britain adopted national standards, and in 2000 the Audit Commission began publishing both a summary annual reports of library conditions and individualized ratings of libraries. Audit Commission personnel base the reports on statistical data, long-range plans, local government commitment to the library, and a site visit. The Audit Commission is an independent body. Every library is assigned a score.\n\nBertelsmann Publishing partners with the German library association to produce BIX, a library index quite similar to HAPLR. The main difference between BIX and HAPLR, is that BIX was designed to provide comparisons of one library to another in a given year as well as over time. HAPLR compares all libraries to one another only during a given year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18036932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18036932", "title": "Raghu Babu", "text": "Raghu Babu\n\nDramatist Raghu Babu\nYerra Raghu, known professionally as Raghu Babu, is a Telugu comedian well known for his comic expressions and timing. He has worked in many successful films in Telugu industry. He is the eldest son of famous comedian and character actor Giri Babu. His native is Ravinuthala village. He got married in 1988. He played a crucial role in comedy part in movies, establishing himself as the director's pick in several Telugu films. He is a Nandi Award nominee for a Telugu film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35102301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35102301", "title": "Real Marriage", "text": "Real Marriage\n\nReal Marriage: The Truth About Sex, Friendship, and Life Together is a 2012 marriage book written by Christian author Mark Driscoll and his wife, Grace, and published by Thomas Nelson. The book spent one week on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list for advice books, however, controversy arose when it was later reported that a former pastor of Mars Hill Church had contracted with the marketing firm Result Source to affect metrics on the best-seller list shortly before resigning. The church also created a Real Marriage sermon series based on the book.\n\nIn the preface, Mark and Grace Driscoll state that they developed the book after they had counseled many couples—many of them facing challenges on how to apply the Bible to their marriage. According to the authors, many of the couples they counseled were afraid of asking questions, and the book sought to address those questions. The book holds to the complementarian view of marriage between one man and one woman. \nThe book is divided into three parts: Marriage, Sex, and The Last Day. In part one, the Driscolls share their personal stories, including their individual upbringings, their years as a dating couple, and conflict in their marriage. In part two, the authors deal with three different views of sex—sex as god, sex as gross, and sex as gift. In part three, the authors lay out how to \"reverse engineer\" one's marriage, by examining how to \"finish well\" on its last day.\n\nThe book was later turned into a sermon series, featuring Mark Driscoll and his wife Grace, with question and answers at the end of each sermon. Paralleling the book's content, the series is divided into:\n\nCritical reception for the book has been mixed, with Publishers Weekly praising the book's \"boldly refreshing approach\". Relevant wrote that \"Though it's certainly not all bad, the helpful and the harmful in Real Marriage are too thoroughly intertwined to be helpful.\"\n\nThe book has faced criticism due to the Driscolls' detailed and frank discussion of sex in \"Real Marriage\". The Driscolls have stated that they did not write the book for people looking to read the book for \"voyeuristic\" intents, but because they viewed sex as an important part of marriage and that the majority of marriage help books were written for people who had not \"experienced sexual assault or been abused or exposed to pornography or sexual sins\". The book has also been criticized for content such as chapters entitled \"The Respectful Wife\", with critics stating that the book was \"an astoundingly unbelievable work of disrespect for women\" and that \"the book focuses so much on sex that it can create the impression that it's the most important element of marriage\".\n\nMark Driscoll has replied to these criticisms, stating that he was aware that the book's content would \"catch flak\" and that \"accommodating everyone would be impossible\".\n\nIn March 2014, \"The Los Angeles Times\" reported that Mars Hill Church contracted with Result Source \"to conduct a bestseller campaign for your book, 'Real Marriage' on the week of January 2, 2012. The bestseller campaign is intended to place 'Real Marriage' on the New York Times bestseller list for the Advice How-to list.\" To achieve this, the contract stated that \"RSI will be purchasing at least 11,000 total orders in one-week.\" This took place and as a result, the book was successfully ranked #1 on the hardcover advice bestseller list on January 22, 2012.\n\nOn March 28, 2015, a former elder of the church revealed that Mark Driscoll had not been involved in initiating nor signing the contract with the marketing firm Result Source. The elder stated that the business relationship with Result Source was initiated by a pastor who resigned shortly thereafter, and remaining church leaders disagreed over the completion of the contract stating that it would reflect badly on the church and Mark Driscoll.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251103", "title": "Rer Bare people", "text": "Rer Bare people\n\nThe Rer Bare (or Rerebere, Adona) are a tribe in Ethiopia's eastern Ogaden region on the Shabele River, near Somalia, who currently speak Somali. They appear to have shifted to Somali from a now-extinct language.\n\nTheir unattested but apparently non-Somali language seems to have been first mentioned in print by Lionel Bender in 1975:\n\nOthers have linked the Rer Bare to the Bantu language family, implying that they may be the remnants of a Bantu-speaking pre-Somali population or, like the \"Somali Bantu\" in the Jubba River valley of southern Somalia, the descendants of Bantu slaves imported from other parts of East Africa in the 19th century. Tobias Hagmann refers to them as \"Somalised Bantu\". According to Ulrich Braukämper:\n\nA British hunter, Colonel Swayne, who visited Imi in February 1893, relates that he was the guest of Gabba Oboho, a chief of the Adona, for several days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37117890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37117890", "title": "Research in Social Movements, Conflicts and Change", "text": "Research in Social Movements, Conflicts and Change\n\nResearch in Social Movements, Conflicts and Change is a peer-reviewed book series that covers sociological research on social conflict, social movements, collective behavior, and social change. The journal also publishes reviews of books on these topics. It was established in 1977 and is published by Emerald Group Publishing.\n\nThe journal's founding editor-in-chief was Louis Kriesberg (Syracuse University). Since 2010, the editor is Patrick G. Coy (Kent State University).\n\n"}
{"id": "669600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669600", "title": "Rusyns", "text": "Rusyns\n\nRusyns, also known as Ruthenes (Rusyn: Русины \"Rusynŷ\"; also sometimes referred to as Руснакы \"Rusnakŷ\" – Rusnaks), are a primarily diasporic ethnic group who speak an East Slavic language known as \"Rusyn\". Rusyns descend from Ruthenian peoples, who did not adopt the use of the ethnonym \"Ukrainian\" in the early 20th century. As residents of the Carpathian Mountains region, Rusyns are also sometimes associated with the Slovak highlander community of Gorals (literally, \"Highlanders\").\n\nThe endonym \"Rusyn\" has frequently not been recognised by various governments and in other cases has been prohibited.\n\nThe main population of Rusyns are Carpatho-Rusyns, Carpatho-Ruthenians, Carpatho-Russians of Carpathian Ruthenia: a discrete cross-border region of western Ukraine, north-east Slovakia, and south-east Poland. In official Ukrainian contexts, the various subgroups of Carpatho-Rusyns are often known collectively as Verkhovyntsi (Верховинці) literally meaning \"Highlanders\".\n\nToday, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Serbia and Croatia officially recognize contemporary Rusyns (or Ruthenes) as an ethnic minority. In 2007, Carpatho-Rusyns were recognized as a separate ethnicity in Ukraine by the Zakarpattia Regional Council, and in 2012 the Rusyn language gained official regional status in certain areas of the province as well as nationwide based on the 2012 Law of Ukraine \"about principles of state policy in Ukraine\". Most contemporary self-identified ethnic Rusyns live outside of Ukraine.\n\nOf the estimated 1.2 million people of Rusyn origins, as few as 90,000 individuals have been officially identified as such, in recent national censuses (see infobox above). This is due, in part, to the refusal of some governments to count Rusyns and/or allow them to self-identify on census forms, especially in Ukraine. The ethnic classification of Rusyns as a separate East Slavic ethnicity distinct from Russians, Ukrainians, or Belarusians is, however, politically controversial. The majority of scholarship on the topic considers Rusyns to be an ethnic subgroup of the Ukrainian people. This is disputed by some non-mainstream scholars and some other scholars from Czechia, Slovakia, Canada and America. According to the 2001 Ukrainian Census about a third of Rusyns in Ukraine speak the Ukrainian language, while others stick to their native form.\n\nThe terms \"Rusyn,\" \"Ruthenes,\" \"Rusniak,\" \"Lemak,\" \"Lyshak\" and \"Lemko\" are considered by some scholars to be historic, local and synonymical names for Carpathian Ukrainians; others hold that the terms \"Lemko\" and \"Rusnak\" are simply regional variations of \"Rusyn\" or \"Ruthene\".\n\nThose who use the ethnonym Rusyn for self-identification are primarily people living in the mountainous Transcarpathian region of western Ukraine and adjacent areas in Slovakia who use it to distinguish themselves from Ukrainians living in the central regions of Ukraine. \n\nThose Rusyns who self-identify today have traditionally come from or had ancestors who came from the Eastern Carpathian Mountain region. This region is often referred to as Carpathian Ruthenia. There are resettled Rusyn communities located in the Pannonian Plain, parts of present-day Serbia (particularly in Vojvodina – see also \"Ethnic groups of Vojvodina\"), as well as present-day Croatia (in the region of Slavonia). Rusyns also migrated and settled in Prnjavor, a town in the northern region of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nMany Rusyns emigrated to the United States and Canada. With the advent of modern communications such as the Internet, they are able to reconnect as a community. Concerns are being voiced regarding the preservation of their unique ethnic and cultural legacy.\n\nThe region of Carpathian Ruthenia (Zakarpattia) and Prykarpattia since the Early Middle Age was inhabited by the tribes of White Croats and partly Dulebes. There existed different theories to explain Rusyns origin. According to Paul Robert Magocsi, the origin of the present-day Carpatho-Rusyns is complex and not exclusively related to the Kievan Rus'. The ancestors are the early Slavs whose movement to the Danubian Basin was influenced by Huns and Pannonian Avars between the 5th and 6th century, the White Croats who lived in both slopes of the Carpathians and built many hill-forts in the region including Uzhhorod ruled by mythical ruler Laborec, the Rusyns of Galicia and Podolia, and Vlachian shepherds of Transylvania.\n\nThe 2006 mitochondrial DNA study of Carpathian Highlanders - Lemkos, Hutsuls and Boykos people - showed a common ancestry with other modern Europeans. An 2009 analysis of maternal lineages found that Hutsuls have the highest frequency of the haplogroup H1 found in Central and Eastern populations to that date. Lemkos shared the highest frequency of haplogroup I (11.3%), identical to 2005 sampled population of the island of Krk in Croatia indicating a founder effect, and the highest frequency of haplogroup Haplogroup M* in the region. However, the haplogroup frequencies in Boykos were very different as had atypically low frequencies of haplogroup H (20%) and J (5%) for a European population. Comparison of eight other Central and Eastern European populations (Belorussian, Croatian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, Russian, Ukrainian), showed that the three groups had a greater distance between themselves than these populations, with Boykos showing the greatest distance from all and did not cluster with anyone, Lemkos being closest to the Czech and Romanian (0.17) population, while Hutsuls closest to the Croatian (0.11) and Ukrainian (0.16) population.\n\nThe 2014 Y-DNA studies of 200 Pannonian Rusyns in the region of Vojvodina, Serbia, found they mostly belong to haplogroup R1a (43%), I2 (20%), E-V13 (12.5%), and R1b (8.5%), while I1, G2a, J2b, N1 between 2.5-4.5 percent, and J1, R1, T, and H only in traces of less than 1%. They clustered closest to the Ukrainian and Slovakian population, \"providing evidence for their genetic isolation from the Serbian majority population\".\n\nRusyns formed two ephemeral states after World War I: the Lemko-Rusyn Republic and Komancza Republic. Prior to this time, some of the founders of the Lemko-Rusyn Republic were sentenced to death or imprisoned in Talerhof by the prosecuting attorney Kost Levytsky (Ukrainian: Кость Леви́цький), future president of the West Ukrainian National Republic. In the interwar period, the Rusyn diaspora in Czechoslovakia enjoyed liberal conditions to develop their culture (in comparison with Ukrainians in Poland or Romania). The Republic of Carpatho-Ukraine, which existed for one day on March 15, 1939, before it was occupied by Hungarian troops, is sometimes considered to have been a self-determining Rusyn state that had intentions to unite with Kiev. The Republic's president, Avgustyn Voloshyn, was an advocate of writing in Rusyn. Ukrainian insurgents from Galicia did attempt to bolster the defences of Carpatho-Ukraine but were unable to resist the Hungarian invaders, supported as the latter attacks were by Nazi Germany.\n\nThe Rusyns have always been subject to larger neighbouring powers, such as Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Slovakia, Poland, the Soviet Union, Ukraine, and Russia. In contrast to the modern Ukrainian national movement that united Western Ukrainians with those in the rest of Ukraine, the Rusyn national movement took two forms: one considered Rusyns a separate East Slavic nation, while the other was based on the concept of fraternal unity with Russians.\n\nMost of the predecessors of the Eastern Slavic inhabitants of present-day Western Ukraine, as well as of Western Belarus, referred to themselves as Ruthenians (Rusyns) (, transliteration \"Rusyny\") prior to the 19th century. Many of them became active participants in the creation of the Ukrainian nation and came to call themselves Ukrainians (Ukrainian: Українці, transliteration \"Ukrayintsi\"). There were, however, ethnic Rusyn enclaves, which were not a part of this movement: those living on the border of the same territory or in more isolated regions, such as the people from Carpathian Ruthenia, Poleshuks, or the Rusyns of Podlaskie. In the Soviet era, Boykos, Lemkos, Hutsuls, Rusyns, Ruski, Cossacks, Pinchuks, Polishchuks, and Lytvyns were classified as Ukrainian sub-groups.\n\nHistorically, the Polish and Hungarian states are considered to have contributed to the development of a Rusyn identity that is separate from that of traditional Ruthenians. Rusyns were recorded as a separate nationality by the censuses taken in pre-World War II Czechoslovakia and Hungary, In Poland, until 1939, 'Rusin' has been the official description of the whole nation, while \"Ukrainians\" were commonly the people involved in a nationalist movement. Nowadays all Polish citizens are allowed to define themselves by a single or double nationality, i.e. \"Lemko-Ukrainian\", \"Lemko-Polish\", \"Polish-Ukrainian\", \"Ukrainian-Polish\" etc.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Ukrainian census, an overwhelming majority of Boykos, Lemkos, Hutsuls, Verkhovyntsi and Dolynians in Ukraine stated their nationality as Ukrainian. However, some of these ethnic groups consider themselves to be separate ethnicities, while others identify themselves as Rusyns. About 10,100 people, or 0.8%, of Ukraine's Zakarpattia Oblast (Province) identified themselves as Rusyns; by contrast, 1,010,000 considered themselves Ukrainians. Research conducted by the University of Cambridge during the height of political Rusynism in the mid-1990s that focused on five specific regions within the Zakarpattia Oblast having the strongest pro-Rusyn cultural and political activism, found that only nine percent of the population of these areas claimed Rusyn ethnicity. These numbers may change with the further acceptance of Rusyn identity and the Rusyn language in educational systems in the area; nevertheless in the present day, according to the Ukrainian census, most – over 99% – of the local inhabitants consider themselves to be Ukrainians.\nThe Rusyn national movement is much stronger among those Rusyn groups that became geographically separated from present-day Ukrainian territories, for example, the Rusyn emigrants in the United States and Canada, as well as the Rusyns living within the borders of Slovakia. The 2001 census in Slovakia showed that 24,000 people considered themselves ethnically Rusyn while 11,000 considered themselves to be ethnically Ukrainian. The Pannonian Rusyns in Serbia, who migrated there during the rule of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, also consider themselves to be Rusyns. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, some Rusyns resettled in Vojvodina (in present-day Serbia), as well as in Slavonia (in present-day Croatia). Still, other Rusyns migrated to the northern regions of the present Bosnia and Herzegovina. Until the 1971 Yugoslav census, both Ukrainians (Serbian Cyrillic: Украјинци, tr. \"Ukrajinci\") and Rusyns (Serbian Cyrillic: Русини, tr. \"Rusini\") in these areas were recorded collectively as \"Ruthenes\". \"Podkarpatskije Rusiny\" is considered the Rusyn \"national anthem\".\n\nSince 1992, the Zakarpattia regional council has twice appealed for recognition of Rusyns as a distinct nationality to the Ukrainian parliament (Verkhovna Rada). According to the 2001 All-Ukrainian Census, approximately 10,000 self-identified Rusyns reside within Zakarpattia Oblast alone. In August 2006, the UN Committee on liquidation on racial discrimination urged the Government of Ukraine to recognize Rusyns as a national minority. This is recognized in 22 countries around the globe. In March 2007, the Zakarpattia Regional Council adopted a decision which recognized Rusyns as a separate national minority at the oblast level. By the same decision the Zakarpattia Regional Council petitioned the Ukrainian central authorities to recognize Rusyns as an ethnic minority at the state level.\n\nA considerable controversy has arisen regarding the Rusyn separatist movement led by the Orthodox priest Dmitri Sidor (now Archbishop of Uzhorod, in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate)), his relationship with the Russian Orthodox Church and funding for his activities. Russia has, as a result of the Russian census of 2002, recognized the Rusyns as a separate ethnic group in 2004, and has been accused of fueling ethnic tensions and separatism among Rusyns.\n\nA criminal case under Part 2, Art. 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code was initiated after the 1st European Congress of Rusyns took place in Mukachevo on June 7, 2008. At that particular congress, it was recognized the reinstating of the Zakarpattia's special status as special \"territory of Rusyns to the south of the Carpathians\" with self-government under the constitutional name Subcarpathian Rus. On October 29, in Mukachevo at a 2nd Congress, a memorandum was signed calling for the authorities to recognise the Subcarpathian Rus autonomy (by December 1). That same day, according to the \"Kommersant-Ukraine\" (Ukrainian edition) agents of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) questioned Dmytro Sidor and Yevgeniy Zhupan. They were summoned to SBU as witnesses in a criminal case \"on the infringement on territorial integrity of Ukraine\" initiated in June 2008. However the investigators were interested in the circumstances and sources of financing the 2nd European Congress of Rusyns that took place on October 25, at which the memorandum on reinstating Rusyn statehood was signed. According to Dmytro Sidor the Rusyn movement is financed through business. At the same time, Rusyn leaders claim that it does not infringe on the territorial integrity of the country. Sydor was reportedly convicted on charges relating to separatism in 2012.\n\nIn 1994, the historian Paul Robert Magocsi stated that there were approximately 690,000 Carpatho-Rusyn church members in the United States, with 320,000 belonging to the largest Byzantine Catholic affiliations, 270,000 to the largest Eastern Orthodox affiliations, and 100,000 to various Protestant and other denominations.\n\nMost Rusyns are Eastern Catholics of the Byzantine Rite, who since the Union of Brest in 1596 and the Union of Uzhhorod in 1646 have been in communion with the See of Rome. They have their own particular Church, the Ruthenian Catholic Church, distinct from the Latin Catholic Church. It has retained the Byzantine Rite liturgy, sometimes including the Old Church Slavonic language, and the liturgical forms of Byzantine or Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n\nThe Pannonian Rusyns of the Croatia are organized under the Byzantine Catholic Eparchy of Križevci, and those in the region of Vojvodina (northern Serbia), are organized under the Byzantine Catholic Apostolic Exarchate of Serbia. Those in the diaspora in the United States established the Byzantine Catholic Metropolitan Church of Pittsburgh.\n\nAlthough originally associated with the Eastern Orthodox Eparchy of Mukachevo, that diocese was suppressed after the Union of Uzhhorod. New Eastern Orthodox Eparchy of Mukachevo and Prešov was created in 1931 under the auspices of the Serbian Orthodox Church. That eparchy was divided in 1945, eastern part joining Russian Orthodox Church as the Eparchy of Mukachevo and Uzhhorod, while western part was reorganized as Eastern Orthodox Eparchy of Prešov of the Czech and Slovak Orthodox Church. The affiliation of Eastern Orthodox Rusyns was adversely affected by the Communist revolution in the Russian Empire and the subsequent Iron Curtain which split the Orthodox diaspora from the Eastern Orthodox believers living in the ancestral homelands. A number of émigré communities have claimed to continue the Orthodox Tradition of the pre-revolution church while either denying or minimizing the validity of the church organization operating under Communist authority. For example, the Orthodox Church in America (OCA) was granted autocephalous (self-governing) status by the Moscow Patriarchate in 1970. Although approximately 25% of the OCA was Rusyn (referred to as \"Ruthenian\") in the early 1980s, an influx of Eastern Orthodox émigrés from other nations and new converts wanting to connect with the Eastern Church have lessened the impact of a particular Rusyn emphasis in favor of a new American Orthodoxy.\n\nMany Rusyn Americans left Catholicism for Eastern Orthodoxy in 19th century due to disputes with the Latin Church bishops, who viewed different practices in the Byzantine Rite (such as married clergy) with suspicion. After a bitter fight with Archbishop John Ireland, Father Alexis Toth, himself a Rusyn from Hungary, converted to Eastern Orthodoxy and eventually led as many as 20,000 Rusyn-Americans from Catholicism into Eastern Orthodoxy, for which he was canonized by the Orthodox Church.\n\nAnother large segment of Rusyn Americans belong to the American Carpatho-Russian Orthodox Diocese, which is headquartered in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. From its early days, this group was recognized by the Ecumenical Patriarchate as a self-governing diocese.\n\nRusyns subgroups are Carpathian Rusyns, mostly from Carpathian Ruthenia who speak Carpathian Rusyn language, and Pannonian Rusyns, mostly from Voivodina who speak Pannonian Rusyn language. Other more specific ethnic groups with regional identity are Lemkos, considered as a distinc ethnic minority in Slovakia or with some ethnic recognition in Poland, but controversially both with Boykos and Hutsuls are also considered as part of Ukrainian nationality in Ukraine.\n\nРусский язык\n"}
{"id": "2002994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002994", "title": "Samuel Krafsur", "text": "Samuel Krafsur\n\nSamuel Simon Krafsur (January 10, 1913 – June 1983) was a Boston-born journalist who worked for the Soviet news agency TASS during World War II. He was also known as Bill Krafsur.\n\nKrafsur was mentioned in the Venona intercepts under the codename IDE. He was used by the KGB during the war as a source of information and for recruiting journalists as informants and agents, and is referred to in the NSA archives as a \"KGB agent\" .\n\nIn the 1930s Krafsur joined the Communist Party of America. He attended Northeastern University for a year. He lived at 68 Phillips Street in Boston before going to Spain to fight with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade during the Spanish Civil War, where he was wounded in 1937.\n\nIn 1938 Krafsur was a member of the editorial staff of \"The Volunteers for Liberty\" a newspaper which was an, \"organ of the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade\" organization out of 125 West 45 Street in New York City. In April 1938 he was in charge of finding veterans to tell their war stories to be made into radio plays written by Irwin Shaw.\n\nHe began working for TASS in 1941 after being recruited by the Soviet agent Vladimir Pravdin. He became the assistant to the manager Laurence Todd at the Washington sub-bureau. Krafsur was considered an important asset to the KGB because of the many contacts he had with other newsmen. He was the deputy TASS bureau chief in Washington, D.C. and the FBI spent a lot of time and effort trying to identify who he was under his codename IDE.\n\nIn May 1944, he was described in a KGB cable from New York to Moscow as, \"absolutely devoted to the USSR.\" He provided at least twenty leads of people for possible recruitment including Joseph Berger, a personal aide to the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, and I. F. Stone.\n\nIn 1949, Laurence Todd was relieved of his managing duties and instead given the title of senior correspondent. In this same year Krafsur left TASS and was later called before the House Committee on Un-American Activities where he chose not to cooperate. Later he worked in a toy store.\n\nIn the early 1960s he married the ex-wife of the secretary-treasurer of the Mine, Mill, and Smelters Union. He died, at the age of seventy, in St. Petersburg, Florida in 1983 under the name \"Samuel Krafsur\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1950903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1950903", "title": "Shilha people", "text": "Shilha people\n\nThe Soussi people, also called Isussin or Swassa, are a major Berber subgroup primarily inhabiting the southwestern mountains, Sous River, and southern coastal regions of Morocco.\n\nThe Soussis traditionally call themselves \"Isoussin\". This endonym is rendered as les \"Soussis\" in French. The Soussis are also known as \"Isoussin\" and \"Swassa\". Among Arabic speakers, \"Chleuh\" serves as an appellation for Berbers generally, although \"Amazigh\"/\"Imazighin\" is the proper Berber self-name for Berbers as a whole.\n\nThe Soussi people live mainly in Morocco's southern Atlantic coast, the High Atlas Mountains, the Anti Atlas mountains, and the Sous Valley. They are of Berber origin, which along with the Berber people, includes other ethnic subgroups such as the Tuareg, Rif, Kabyle, Shawia and Beraber. The Soussi people are a part of Morocco's Berber-speaking community, and the southernmost residing Berber population.\n\nIn antiquity, Berbers traded with the Phoenicians and Carthaginians in commercial entrepots and colonies along the northwestern littoral. They established the ancient kingdom of Mauretania, which fell under Roman rule in 33 CE, before eventually being reunited under Berber sovereignty. During the 7th century, the Islamic Umayyad Caliphate invaded the Berber and Byzantine strongholds in the Northwest Africa, seizing Carthage in 698 AD. Although the Umayyads nominally controlled Morocco over the following years, their rule was tenuous due to Berber resistance, shortly in 739 AD Umayyad Arabs were killed by the Moroccan Berbers at the battle of Nobles and Bagdoura. Morocco remained under the rule of Berber kingdoms such as Barghawata and Midrar .. etc. In 789 AD, with the approval of the locals, a former Umayyad courtier established the Idrisid dynasty that ruled in Fez. It lasted until 970 AD, as various petty states vied for control over the ensuing centuries. After 1053, Morocco was ruled by a succession of Muslim dynasties founded by Berber tribes. Among these were the Almoravid dynasty (1053-1147) who spread Islam in Morocco, the Almohad dynasty (1147-1275), and the Marinid dynasty (1213-1524). In 1668, a sharifan family from the east assumed control and established the incumbent Alawite dynasty.\n\nAlthough the Soussis gradually adopted Islam, they and other Berbers in the mountains have held on to their traditional language, culture and religious customs to varying degrees. A small minority of the Shilha people are Christians and Jewish.\n\nThe French and Spanish colonial empires partitioned Morocco in 1904, and the southern part of the territory was declared a French protectorate in 1912. Arabization remained an official state policy under both the colonial and succeeding post-independence governments. With the spread of the Berber Spring to Berber territory during the 1980s, the Berbers sought to reaffirm their Berber roots. This culminated with a proposal by Berber nationalists in 2013 to establish an independent Sousse state within a greater Morocco federation.\n\nThe Soussis mainly live in Morocco's Atlas Mountains and Sous Valley. Traditionally, they are farmers who also keep herds. Some are semi-nomadic, growing crops during the season when water is available, and moving with their herds during the dry season.\n\nThe Soussi communities in the southwestern mountains of Morocco cooperated with each other in terms of providing reciprocal grazing rights as seasons changed, as well as during periods of war. These alliances were re-affirmed by annual festive gatherings, where one Soussi community would invite nearby and distant Shilha communities.\n\nThe Soussis speak the Tasoussit language, a Tasoussit dialect. It belongs to the Berber branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. Their language is sometimes referred to as \"Sous-Berber\".\n\nAs of 2014, there were around 5 million Shilha speakers, constituting 14.1% of the Moroccan population.\n\nThe Soussi language differs considerably from certain Berber varieties, such as those spoken by the Tuareg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24604243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24604243", "title": "Sichuan Mongols", "text": "Sichuan Mongols\n\nThe Sichuan Mongols are officially counted among the Mongolian nationality in China. However, they are a distinct ethno-linguistic group from all other Mongolian peoples. They call themselves Mongols and possess their own clothing, history and language. All other peoples in the region recognize them as Mongols (\"Mengzu\").\n\nThe Sichuan Mongols' main religion is Tibetan Buddhism. A sizable temple remains in active use just behind the prince's house. Most temples and altars being destroyed during the Cultural Revolution but many of them were recovered afterwards. Most Sichuan Mongols are farmers or fishermen, leading quiet lives in their remote villages. They observe Buddhist festivals.\n\nHistorically, the Mongols in Yongning were ruled by three chiefs, elevated to power by Kublai Khan in the 13th century. Before Communist rule, the Mongol monarch acted as a warlord over the whole region. When the Communists took over, they deposed him, not killing him so as not to make him a martyr in the people's eyes. The Mongol palace was destroyed and the prince was sent to a reeducation camp for several years. The prince, La Ping Chu, is still alive today and respected by his people, although he is not allowed to rule. Many older Mongols still bow their heads in respect when they pass him on the street.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34698701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34698701", "title": "Simd (dance)", "text": "Simd (dance)\n\nThe Simd (, ), is an Ossetian folk group dance. Time signature 4/4, 2/4. The beauty of Simd is in the strict graphic outline of the dance, the contrast between black and white costumes, the softness of movements, the strictness of line formations, and the harmony created by all of the above. \n\nIn South Ossetia there is the \"State song and dance ensemble “Simd”\".\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "58353235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58353235", "title": "Social Stratification Research Seminar", "text": "Social Stratification Research Seminar\n\nThe Social Stratification Research Seminar (UK) is an annual research colloquium for original, empirically informed sociological presentations on social stratification. The Social Stratification Research Seminars have been running almost every autumn since 1968. The seminars have mainly been hosted at the University of Cambridge and were often organised by the Social Science Research Group (formerly the Sociological Research Group). The seminars have also been held at the University of Cardiff (2003-5), the University of Edinburgh (2014, 2017), the University of Milan (2015), the University of Stirling (2007, 2011) and Utrecht University (2010).\n\nThe original movers and shakers behind the seminar were three distinguished British scholars working in the field of social stratification - Professor Robert (Bob) Blackburn, Professor Ken Prandy, and Professor Alexander (Sandy) Stewart. Since the early part of this millennium the seminar has been organised by Professor Paul Lambert, who is Professor of Sociology at the University of Stirling and a longstanding fan of Stirling Albion F.C. The annual call for papers is usually issued in the spring and the seminar is usually held on two consecutive days in the early September. Proposals for papers for presentations are invited from any area of research into social stratification and social inequality. The organizers do not usually limit the number of delegates attending. There are no parallel sessions and therefore there is an upper limit on the number of paper presentations that can be accommodated.\n\nA salient feature of the Social Stratification Research Seminars has been how to appropriately measure social stratification in contemporary societies. An approach that has been developed by researchers who are regular contributors to the seminars are Social Interaction and Stratification Scales. This approach is the foundation of the CAMSIS Project which is an internationally comparative assessment of the structures of social interaction and stratification across a number of countries.\n\nA number of prominent research publications contain work that was developed and showcased at the seminars. These works include an edited volume entitled \"Social stratification:Trends and processes\"\",\" and special issues of the journal \"Contemporary Social Science\" and the \"International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy\" .\n\nNotable sociological scholars in the field of social stratification who have attended the Social Stratification Research Seminars include Professor Harry Ganzeboom, Dr Wendy Bottero, Professor Geoff Payne, Professor Max Bergman, and Professor Lucinda Platt. The meeting is also attended by early career researchers such as Jennifer Ferguson.\n"}
{"id": "48700134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48700134", "title": "Solzhenitsyn Aid Fund", "text": "Solzhenitsyn Aid Fund\n\nThe Solzhenitsyn Aid Fund (officially Russian Public Fund to Aid Political Prisoners and their Families, also Fund for the Aid of Political Prisoners, Public Aid Fund) was a charity foundation and support network set up by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Alexander Ginzburg that distributed funds and material support to political and religious prisoners across the Soviet Union throughout the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe fund was formed on the initiative of writer and political prisoner Alexander Ginzburg. Families of arrested dissidents often suffered repercussions such as the loss of jobs and opportunities to study. During his time in labor camps, Ginzburg managed to coordinate relatives and friends to help other inmates and their families. This included support such as donating household goods for those in exile, helping relatives who faced expulsion from work, or offering places to stay in Moscow for wives who journeyed to visit their husbands in remote Siberian camps.\n\nAfter his release in 1972, Ginzburg consulted with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn on how to continue this informal support. Solzhenitsyn offered a quarter of his Nobel Prize award for the cause. After Solzhenitsyn was expelled from the USSR in 1974 following the publication of \"The Gulag Archipelago\", he set up a fund in Switzerland, donating all present and future international royalties for the book to it. The funds were from then on brought into the USSR and distributed through a network of volunteers.\n\nA first goal of the fund was to help gulag inmates and their families to survive. For this, groups of people, unknown to one another, collected information on the existence and whereabouts of political prisoners across the Soviet Union and distributed funds and other material support to them and their families. Other charitable organizations, such as Christian Orthodox organizations that collected clothing and other items, passed those donations onto the Aid Fund for redistribution. The Aid Fund also contributed funds for the support of political prisoners who were sent to psychiatric imprisonment. It paid for the travel expenses of those who traveled to distant trials to support the political dissenters. A second goal of the fund was the support of cultural initiatives, such as a series of memoirs of emigrants.\n\nThe administrators of the fund ensured that the money was sent legally to banks in Moscow; after the state had taken one third in tax, what remained was distributed in roubles. When the authorities found out about the fund, the receiving of the money was blocked. Instead, donations were sent to friends and sympathisers. The KGB then attempted to halt its distribution by telling the families of political prisoners that, if money were accepted, their loved ones would endure even worse conditions in the camps.\n\nAccording to Solzhenitsyn's wife Natalya, the fund counted up to 120 volunteers.\n\nThe Aid Fund was revived in the 1990s. It supports impoverished former dissenters. It also instituted a support program for Russian libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54741185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54741185", "title": "Srowolan", "text": "Srowolan\n\nSrowolan is a village in the Special Region of Yogyakarta. It is situated in the southern foothills of Mount Merapi exactly south of the peak north of the \"Kraton Ngayogyakarta Hadiningrat\".\n\nSome of the main attractions of this village include \"Banyusumilir\", an outbound business owned by a local resident, salak orchards, and \"Pasar Perjuangan\" market. The market, established in 1921 by the Sultan, has not been active for over thirty years.\n"}
{"id": "35296021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35296021", "title": "Stuart B. Schwartz", "text": "Stuart B. Schwartz\n\nStuart B. Schwartz is the George Burton Adams Professor of History at Yale University, the Chair of the Council of Latin American and Iberian Studies, and the former Master of Ezra Stiles College.\n\nProfessor Schwartz was born in Springfield, Massachusetts. As an undergraduate he studied at Middlebury College and the Universidad Autonoma de Mexico. After receiving his undergraduate degree from Middlebury, he went on to study Latin American History at Columbia University where he received his Ph.D. in 1968.\n\nAfter Columbia, Professor Schwartz taught at the University of Minnesota before joining the Yale faculty in 1996. Yale President Richard Levin has referred to Professor Schwartz as, \"perhaps the most outstanding scholar of Brazilian history\" in the world.\" Schwartz has also undertaken scholarly research on Spain, Portugal and their colonies in the early modern Atlantic world.\n\nHis scholarly publications include \"Sovereignty and Society in Colonial Brazil\" (1973), \"Early Latin America\" (1983), \"Sugar Plantations in the Formation of Brazilian Society\" (1985), \"Slaves, Peasants, and Rebels\" (1992), as editor, \"A Governor and His Image in Baroque Brazil\" (1979), \"Implicit Understandings\" (1994), \"Victors and Vanquished: Spanish and Nahua Views of the Conquest of Mexico\" (2000), \"Cambridge History of Peoples of the Americas. South America\" (1999).\n\nIn 2008 Schwartz published \"All Can Be Saved: Religious Toleration and Salvation in the Iberian Atlantic World\" (Yale University Press). The book traces the idea of tolerance in the Hispanic world from 1500-1820, focusing on the attitudes of common people rather than elites. The book received numerous awards including the 2008 Cundill International Prize in History, the 2009 American Academy of Religion Book Award for Excellence in the category of Historical Study of Religion, the 2009 John E. Fagg Prize awarded by the American Historical Association, the 2009 George L. Mosse Prize awarded by the American Historical Association, the 2009 Leo Gershoy Award awarded by the American Historical Association, and the Bolton-Johnson Prize awarded by the Conference on Latin American History. Schwartz's first Bolton-Johnson Prize was awarded to his book \"Sugar Plantation in the Formation of Brazilian Society\" (1985).\n\nSchwartz was a fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the Institute of Advanced Studies in Princeton, New Jersey. In 1983 he served as chair of the Conference on Latin American History, the professional organization of Latin American historians.\n\nProfessor Schwartz lives in Guilford, Connecticut and Puerto Rico with his wife, scholar Maria Jordán, a Senior Lecturer in the Departments of Spanish and Portuguese and a Lecturer in History at Yale, and author of \"Soñar La Historia: Vida y Textos de Lucrecia de León en la España del Siglo de Oro\" (Madrid: Siglo XXI, 2007).\n"}
{"id": "33625085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33625085", "title": "Swedish Ido Association", "text": "Swedish Ido Association\n\nSwedish Ido Association was founded in Stockholm 21 April 1911 and was associated with Uniono por la linguo internaciona - ULI. The purpose was to promote the usage of the universal Ido language in Sweden.\n\nDuring the 1930s the Swedish Ido Association was one of the largest associations in Sweden that advocated the usage of a universal language. The association had about 200 exercising and 100 supporting members. The association published periodicals and literature in Ido. Among other periodicals Komuniki (1964–1988) Svensk Världsspråkstidning 1925-59 and Mondo 1912-34 can be mentioned.\n\nDue to receding numbers of members, an extra general meeting decided to dissolve the association in Stockholm 2 August 1996. At this meeting the Ido-foundation for Language Research in Memory of Hellmut Röhnisch was created using the assets of the association. Hellmut Röhnisch was the last chairman of the Swedish Ido Association.\n"}
{"id": "47780823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47780823", "title": "The National Agriculture and Trade Show (Belize)", "text": "The National Agriculture and Trade Show (Belize)\n\nThe National Agriculture and Trade Show (NATS) which was established in the year 1970, is an annual public event that is held in Belmopan city which is the capital of Belize. It is a family oriented event created in order for farmers as well as numerous businesses and organizations to showcase and sell their products to the Belizean public. Approximately 40,000 to 45,000 individuals visit the Trade Show over the three days that it is held for.\n\nThe first Agriculture Show was first held in Belize City on April 2 and 3, 1937. The following are some of the earlier records of when the NATS was held.\nThe Agriculture Show grounds spread over 60 acres on the banks of Roaring Creek Village. Love FM's main stage is always the main event of the day where Belize's leading band, the Gilharry 7 from Corozal Town would perform alongside other Belizean artists such as Supa G, Harlem Youths, Vida and Sheldon, Chico Ramos as well as the Sweet Pain band.\n\nApart from the entertainment, drinks and products, there are a variety of food from all parts of Belize, Mexico and Guatemala that are readily available to the visitors throughout the day. Some of these foods range from Tamales and Tacos to Rice and Beans with Stew Chicken and Barbecue.There are numerous mechanical rides that are brought in from the neighboring country Guatemala such as Ferris wheels and games of fortune for the young and old to enjoy.The attractions of the show include: \n\nWith Agriculture being one of the most profitable industries in Belize, The National Agriculture and Trade Show (NATS) focuses on the importance of agriculture through education, by demonstrating how the agricultural sector contributes to Belize's economy. The National Agriculture and Trade Show (NATS) also emphasizes the importance of food security. This event usually occurs near the end of April or on the first weekend of May.\n"}
{"id": "29275515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29275515", "title": "Ukrainian oligarchs", "text": "Ukrainian oligarchs\n\nThe Ukrainian oligarchs are a group of business oligarchs that quickly appeared on the economic and political scene of Ukraine after its independence in 1991, just as happened in neighboring post-Soviet state Russia. In 2008, the combined wealth of Ukraine's 50 richest oligarchs was equal to 85% of Ukraine's GDP. In November 2013 this number was 45% (of GDP). By 2015, due to the Ukrainian crisis, the total net worth of the five richest and most influential Ukrainians (Rinat Akhmetov, Viktor Pinchuk, Ihor Kolomoyskyi, Henadiy Boholyubov and Yuriy Kosiuk) had dropped from $21.6 billion in 2014 to $11.85 billion in June 2015. (In 2014 Ukrainian GDP fell by 7%; in 2015 it shrunk 12%.)\n\nOligarchs are usually defined as businessmen having direct influence on both politics and economy. During the 1990s, the oligarchs emerged as well-connected entrepreneurs who started from nearly nothing and got rich through participation in the market via connections to the corrupt, but democratically elected government of Ukraine during the state's transition to a market-based economy. Later numerous Ukrainian businesspeople have \"taken over control\" of political parties (examples of this are Party of Greens of Ukraine, Labour Ukraine and Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (united)) or started new ones to gain seats and influence in the Verkhovna Rada (Ukrainian parliament).\n\nThe rise of the oligarchs has been connected to the processes of privatization of state-owned assets. These processes usually involved the distribution of property titles of such enterprises, land, and real estate, on equal base to the whole population of the country, through instruments such as privatization vouchers, certificates, and coupons. Given the different preferences of people in relation to risk-aversity, property titles were easily re-sold. Businessmen who could provide an initial investment capital to collect such property titles could thus easily arrive to the property of whole former public holdings.\n\nThe oligarchs' influence on the Ukrainian Government is extreme. In 2011 some analysts and Ukrainian politicians believed that some Ukrainian businesses tycoons, with \"lucrative relations\" with Russia, were deliberately hindering Ukraine's European Union integration.\n\nIn January 2001 only two people of this list were seen as being an oligarch by the general public (Lazarenko and Tymoshenko, topping a Kyiv International Institute of Sociology survey in January 2001).\n\n\nAn economic study distinguishes 35 oligarchic groups within 2000s – 2010s: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4072995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4072995", "title": "Vernon Lee Evans", "text": "Vernon Lee Evans\n\nVernon Lee Evans is a contract killer convicted for murdering two witnesses scheduled to testify against the leader of a drug gang. In 1984, he was convicted and sentenced to death together with drug kingpin Anthony Grandison for the 1983 murders of Susan Kennedy and David Scott Piechowicz. David Piechowicz and his wife Cheryl (Susan Kennedy's sister) had been scheduled to testify against Grandison at trial on federal drug charges.\n\nThe case was intensely discussed in the political debate about eliminating the death penalty in Maryland.\n\nEvans' death sentence was overturned on appeal in 1991. The following year, a new jury again sentenced him to die. In 1994, the new sentence was upheld on direct appeal to the Maryland Court of Appeals, and in 1997 a petition for post-conviction relief was denied. The U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland denied Evans' federal habeas corpus petition in 1999, and in 2000 that decision was upheld by the Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit. Since then, Evans has filed motions for a new trial and to correct an illegal sentence. Those, however, have been denied as well. He was scheduled for execution in February 2006, but his execution was suspended. All executions in Maryland are currently on hold until the state drafts and approves new execution procedures.\n\nThe status of Evens' death sentence became unclear along with that of four other convicted murderers when the Maryland House of Delegates voted in 2013 to abolish the death penalty. On December 31, 2014, Evans' death sentence was one of four commuted to life without parole by outgoing governor Martin O'Malley\n\nConcern that anti death penalty activists would protest Evans execution violently, Maryland State Police carried out undercover surveillance of anti death penalty activists for fourteen months. The operation was ended when it came to light; Governor Martin O'Malley called it an \"infring(ment) on citizens' rights to free speech or public assembly.\" \n\nWhile on death row, anti death penalty activists enabled Evans to write an advice blog designed, according to the Chicago Tribune as \"the leading edge of a strategy by death penalty opponents to use new technologies\" by making the public see criminals sentenced to death as \"human beings with lives beyond the crimes they are accused of.\" In his blog, Evans claimed not to have committed the murder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3537425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537425", "title": "Wajiara language", "text": "Wajiara language\n\nYurutí, or Wajiara, is a Tucanoan language of Colombia, with a few speakers in Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "3989376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989376", "title": "Yusuf Khattak", "text": "Yusuf Khattak\n\nMuhamad Yusuf Khan Khattak (Urdu:محمد یوسف خان خٹک; b. 18 November 1917 – 29 July 1991) best known as Yusuf Khattak, was a Pakistani politician, left-wing intellectual, lawyer, and noted Pakistan Movement from Khyber Pakhtunkwa. \n\nAlthough an early member of the Muslim League, he actively participated in politics through the left-oriented Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), which he served as the minister of petroleum under the government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. He was a highly respectable elder statesman and represented Pakistan at various international conferences throughout his long statesmanship.\n\nKhattak was born into a prominent Pashtun \"Khattak\" family, in Kohat, North-West Frontier Province now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province. His father, Khan Bahadur Kuli Khan Khattak, was an influential figure in the nationalist politics of the then-North-West Frontier Province. His younger brother, Aslam Khattak also served as the Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Habibullah Khattak later enjoyed a distinguish career with the Pakistan Army.\n\nAfter initially studying at the private Aitchison College in Lahore, he made a transfer to the renowned Government College University (GCU) in Lahore. At GCU, he graduated with BA in comparative literature and poetry, and moved to the United Kingdom for higher studies. He attended the Oxford University where he earned a BA in history, followed by MA in modern history. At Oxford University, he passed the bar exam to practice law and was Lincoln's Inn. However, he returned to India to join the Muslim League and played a prominent role in the Pakistan Movement.\n\nIn November 1946, he led a group of 100 volunteers of Frontier Muslim League to Bihar for relief work after the massacre of Muslims there. During this time, Khattak was arrested and sent to jail along with other leaders of the Muslim League. ln spite of his release orders, he refused to come out of the jail and persistently defied the orders by remaining behind the bars till Muhammad Ali Jinnah gave clarion call to the Muslim League leaders to fight the battle for referendum in North West Frontier Province.\n\nYusuf Khattak led the Pakistan Movement section against the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Congress government under Dr Khan Sahib. A close confidante of Liaqat Ali Khan, he became secretary general of the Muslim League after the independence of Pakistan in 1947. However, he fell out with Muslim League Chief Minister Abdul Qayyum Khan, who actively organised a campaign to oust him and his colleagues like Barrister Khan Saifullah Khan, from any role in provincial politics.\n\nHe was then elected secretary general of the Provincial Muslim League, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa in 1949. He was soon elevated to the prominent position of secretary general of All Pakistan Muslim League the same year thereby succeeding Liaquat Ali Khan, prime minister of Pakistan as secretary general of the league.\n\nFrequently in the opposition, he was elected the leader of the opposition in the National Assembly and was a prominent leader in the campaign of Fatima Jinnah against Field Marshal Ayub Khan's military government.\n\nA prominent critic of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khans Pakhtunistan policy, he also rejected the National Awami Party's claim to be the sole representative of Pashtuns.\n\nReconciling with Qayyum Khan before the bye elections 1971 election, he joined the Pakistan Muslim League-Qayyum faction and contested and won the election from Qayyum Khan's vacated Peshawar seat.\n\nAs part of Qayyum Khan's alliance with the Pakistan Peoples Party, Yusuf Khattak was appointed Federal Minister for Fuel, Power and Natural Resources in Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's Cabinet. He was re-elected to his seat in the 1977 election despite the Qayyum League's rout.\n\nIn 1990 the Government of Pakistan gave him a gold medal for his services to Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
