{"id": "40753513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40753513", "title": "Alan Pilkington", "text": "Alan Pilkington\n\nAlan Pilkington (born 1966) is a British engineer, and Professor at the Copenhagen Business School, known for his on the Technology management, Operations management, Manufacturing strategy and Enterprise engineering.\n\nPilkington attended King Edward VI School, Retford and received his B.Eng. degree from De Montfort University in 1987, and his PhD from Aston University in 1992.\n\nAfter graduation in 1987 Pilkington started his career in industry as project manager in manufacturing engineering at the Rover Group, where from 1989 to 1993 he was part of the Manufacturing Policy Unit. In 1996 he returned to academia as Associate Professor in Operations and Technology Management at the Royal Holloway, University of London, where he stayed until September 2013. Pilkington has been Visiting Scholar at the University of California, Davis between 1997 and 2003; at the University of Western Australia between 2003 and 2005; and at Cesar Ritz Colleges in 2011–12. In 2009 he became Adjunct Professor at the Hult International Business School in London. In September 2013 he became a Professor at Copenhagen Business School. Since 2015 he has been Professor of Technology Management at Westminster Business School in London.\n\nAt the IEEE Pilkington chairs the IEEE Technology Management Council for the UK and Republic of Ireland joint Chapter on Engineering Management.\n\nPilkington research interests are in the field of enterprise engineering and innovation, particularly disruptive innovation.\n\nPilkington's approach to innovation concerned \"product of individual, organisational and knowledge trajectories\". His idea was that \"modelling the relationships between observed typologies within each of these spheres, conditions for successful innovation can be identified and failures explained. This work is leading to tools which will help managers define successful and achievable technology strategies.\"\n\nPilkington has initiated and directed the Pilkington research in Enterprise Engineering at Royal Holloway. According to Pilkington (2008/13):\n\nThis Enterprise Engineering research had focussed on five types of management specialties:\nAt Royal Holloway more specific topics of research in this field concerned Alternative fuel Technology, Bibliometrics and Patent analysis.\n\nPilkington has authored and co-authored numerous publications in the field of Management of technology, Operations management, Manufacturing strategy and Enterprise engineering. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "42580086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42580086", "title": "Alfonso Márquez de la Plata", "text": "Alfonso Márquez de la Plata\n\nAlfonso Márquez de la Plata Yrarrázaval (19 July 1933 – 22 April 2014) was a Chilean politician, businessman and writer. He was Minister of Agriculture from 1977 until 1980. He was later the Ministry General Secretariat of Government from 1983 to 1984. He was born in Santiago.\n\nMárquez died from pneumonia on 22 April 2014 in Santiago. He was 80.\n"}
{"id": "28744437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28744437", "title": "Alfred A. Marcus", "text": "Alfred A. Marcus\n\nAlfred Allen Marcus (born 1950) is an American author and the Edson Spencer Professor of Strategy and Technology Leadership at the Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota and the Technological Leadership Institute. He has worked as a consultant with companies such as 3M, Corning Inc., Xcel Energy, Medtronic, General Mills, and IBM and has also taught as a visiting professor at Technion, INCAE, BI Norwegian Business School, and MIT.\n\nMarcus was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and grew up in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood. He attended the University of Chicago for his bachelor's and master's degrees, before finishing his PhD in political science at Harvard University under James Q. Wilson. Outside academy, he has worked on environmental and energy policy analysis during the Carter and Reagan years at the Battelle Human Affairs Research Centers in Seattle, Washington. There he conducted and participated in studies on the commercialization of alternative energy technologies and new energy saving technologies.\n\nFollowing the Three Mile Island nuclear power incident, he also became involved in the work carried out by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission on the organization and management of nuclear power plants. Marcus has written many academic articles relating to organizational safety in publications like the \"Academy of Management Journal\", the \"Strategic Management Journal\", and \"Organization Science\".\n\nHis work focuses primarily on the relationship between public policy, the environment, and American business and his books include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13075610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13075610", "title": "Andrey Melnichenko", "text": "Andrey Melnichenko\n\nAndrey Melnichenko (, , born 8 March 1972 in Gomel, Belarus) is a self-made Russian industrialist and philanthropist.\nHe is the main beneficiary of fertilizer producer EuroChem Group, coal producer SUEK, and power generator SGC. He is the Chairman of the Strategy Committees (Non-Executive Director) in all three companies. With an estimated personal wealth of $15.5 billion, in 2018 he ranked 88th in the Forbes World's billionaires list (7th in Russia). According to Bloomberg, as of September 2018, Melnichenko's net worth is estimated at $15.9 billion (67th in the world, 5th in Russia). \n\nToo young to gain from the 1990s privatizations that made many oligarch's fortunes, he began trading currency with two friends while a physics student at Moscow State University, taking advantage of the unique opportunities that opened up in a newly capitalist Russia. After the Soviet Union fell, the trio registered a bank, before Melnichenko began buying assets including in thermal coal and fertilizers. Branching out at the turn of the millennium, he took an interest in the commodities markets with the acquisition of plants and mines, many of which were distressed, transforming them into modern enterprises. He sold his banking interests in 2007, just before the global financial crisis, allowing him to focus on those industrial investments. Melnichenko turned EuroChem into Russia's largest manufacturer of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers and one of largest fertilizers exporters globally, and SUEK into one of the world's largest coal companies that produces higher-quality thermal coal. \n\nMelnichenko is one of the main social investors and philanthropists in Russia. Apart from his companies' own charitable and social investment programs, the Andrey Melnichenko Foundation runs projects in science and education, supporting gifted children from the regions where his companies operate aiming to create social mobility in Russia. Melnichenko's companies reportedly spent over $400 million on social and charitable projects in Russia in the last decade.\n\nAndrey Melnichenko was born on March 8, 1972 in Gomel, Belarus. His parents were teachers. As a gifted student, he attended the Advanced Education and Science Centre of the Lomonosov Moscow State University, and in 1989, became a student of the Faculty of Physics at Moscow State University. He then transferred to the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, from which he graduated in Finance.\n\nWhile at university, Melnichenko began his entrepreneurial ventures opening a currency exchange booth on the campus. Having made their first US$50,000 through a chain of the currency exchange booths, Melnichenko and his partners, two like-minded fellow students, received a banking licence from the Bank of Russia. In 1993, at the age of 21, Melnichenko co-founded the MDM Bank which grew to become one of Russia's largest private banks within ten years. The bank moved onto buying currency at the interbank foreign exchange, developing a derivatives market and debt instruments. From 1993 to 1997, Melnichenko chaired the Board of Directors of MDM Bank. From the late 1990s to the early 2000s, MDM Bank expanded through acquisition, integrating seven regional banks. MDM Bank did not participate in any post-Soviet privatization programs or the loans-for-shares auctions of the 1990s. In 1997, Melnichenko bought out MDM Bank shares from his partners and became the sole shareholder of the Bank and the Chairman of the Management Board. It gradually became one of Russia's largest private banks, based on total assets, and the first in book running of Russian corporate Eurobonds. From 2001 to 2005, he chaired MDM Bank's Board of Directors. MDM Bank was named the \"Bank of the Year\" by The Banker in 2002 and 2003. In 2003, Euromoney and, in 2004, Global Finance, named it the “Best Russian Bank”.\n\nIn 2000, Melnichenko, together with Sergei Popov, a former metals trader from Ural, co-founded the MDM Group for industrial investments into three areas: pipeline manufacturing, coal production and processing, production and processing of fertilizers. It was done through the acquisition of more than 50 independently-run and -owned businesses: joint-stock companies, plants and mines, which enabled to form three separate companies: SUEK, EuroChem and TMK (which he exited in 2006 through an IPO at the London Stock Exchange). These industries were derelict and risky and not subject to the political influence that dominated other sectors. With the process of post-Soviet era privatizations having finished five years earlier, no more than 5% of the assets purchased were acquired from the state. From 2001 to 2004, Melnichenko was the President of the MDM Group. \n\nFrom 2004 to 2007, Melnichenko sold shares of MDM Bank to his MDM Group partner Sergei Popov, and focused on the development of the industrial assets in fertilizers and coal. In 2006, Global Finance named it the “Best Russian Bank” in four categories: corporate management, FOREX, the best organizer of Eurobond loans in the Russian market, and the best consultant in the Russian M&A market. Following Melnichenko's decision to step down from MDM Bank in 2007, the International Financial Corporation (IFC) purchased 5% of MDM Bank shares for US$185 million, valuing the bank at US$3.7 billion. Having served its consolidating purpose, MDM Group ceased to exist.\n\nAndrey Melnichenko became the Chairman of the Board of Directors mineral and chemical company OJSC EuroChem in April 2004. In 2007, he became EuroChem's majority shareholder. \n\nWhen EuroChem was founded, the purchased assets included several nitrogen plants and a phosphate mine with Soviet-era equipment. Melnichenko built EuroChem to become one of the world's largest high-tech fertilizer manufacturers. \n\nOne of EuroChem's key enterprises, Novomoskovsky Azot, became the largest urea plant in Europe, where production of granulated urea began for the first time in Russia. New modern manufacturing facilities were built in Nevinnomyssk (including the first melamine production plant in Russia) and Kovdor (including an apatite and shtaffelite ores processing complex). Modern terminal was launched in Sillamae (Estonia), and Murmansk port was rebuilt. It acquired laboratories in Germany in 2011, which led to creation of similar facilities in Russia, Ukraine, and other countries, which are working on the development of second-generation fertilizers, including advanced slow-release products that help reduce the environmental footprint of the agricultural sector. \n\nEuroChem bought licenses for potash deposits in Volgograd (2005) and Perm (2008), launching plans to develop two large potash industrial plants. \n\nIn 2015, EuroChem moved its headquarters to Switzerland for access to the capital markets and international operations. It has manufacturing, logistic and distributing facilities in Russia, Belgium, Lithuania, Estonia, China, Germany, Kazakhstan, and the USA. EuroChem products are sold in more than 100 countries. EuroChem Group has raised funds on the international capital markets. In 2016, EuroChem invested in biological crop nutrition company Agrinos to invest in research and development for a new generation of products. Elsewhere, EuroChem expanded its distribution network, buying operations in the US, Argentina, Brazil and Hungary. It is developing second-generation fertilizers, including advanced slow-release products that help reduce the environmental footprint of the agricultural sector. One EuroChem fertilizer, Entec 26, became the only such product to be recognized by a carbon exchange foundation in Switzerland, marking the first time that the contribution of advanced fertilizers to reducing agricultural emissions was acknowledged. \n\nEuroChem is Russia's largest manufacturer of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers and one of largest fertilizers exporters globally. It produces higher-value specialty fertilizers including inhibitor products that allow slow release of nutrients into crops, and is launching two Russian potash mines planning to produce 8 million metric tons of the fertilizer a year, a 10th of current world output, as well as eyeing an ammonia and urea plant in Louisiana. According to Melnichenko, EuroChem aims to transform itself \"into a company that creates and promotes high-tech products\". \n\nSince April 2015, Andrey Melnichenko is the Chairman of the Strategy Committee (Non-Executive Director) of EuroChem Group AG. As of 2018, Melnichenko controls 90 percent of EuroChem.\n\nAndrey Melnichenko became Member of the Board of Directors of SUEK JSC (Siberian Coal Energy Company) in February 2005, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors in June 2011. The same year, he created the Siberian Generating Company (SGC) on the basis of electricity assets of SUEK and became the Chairman of its Board of Directors. In 2013, he became the primary shareholder of SUEK and SGC after he has bought his ex-partner's shares. \n\nThe assets that formed SUEK were distressed – production capacity was less than 30 million tons per year, the enterprises employed 70,000 miners yet productivity was low, and virtually none of its output was exported. The average equipment depreciation was 90%. During the early years of the business, SUEK's assets were modernized, debts were repaid, wages and taxes were paid, and a modernization program was launched with new machinery. The old mines and worn-out equipment were transformed into modern enterprises. Several enrichment factories and modules were put into operation with the latest processing technologies that allowed SUEK to produce highly enriched coal with low impurity levels. SUEK built modern coal bulk terminals and upgraded seaports, and built Russia's first coal mine methane processing station to generate power within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol. Russia's first smart mining management control center was built to run all SUEK's operations, monitoring the location and well-being of miners working underground.\n\nAfter the consolidation of electric power assets, Melnichenko created the Siberian Generating Company (SGC) as a part of SUEK, and then spun it out as a separate company. SGC provides between 35% and 78% of electrical power in the Russian regions of its operation. It is the fourth largest heat producer in the world.\n\nMelnichenko led SUEK to become Russia's largest coal producer with operations in seven Russian regions, as well as the world's third largest coal exporter by reserves and sales with distribution in 38 countries worldwide, including the Asia Pacific where coal plays a key role in energy access. SUEK assets produce more than 100 million tons of coal annually, with assured coal reserves of 5.4 billion tons. SUEK is Russia's largest coal producer and a global leader in exporting higher-quality thermal coal. As reported in Financial Times in 2017, according to the International Energy Agency's Clean Coal Centre, \"SUEK, Russia's main exporter of higher-quality thermal coal, has invested in modern high-capacity washing plants and has ash control technologies at all its coal ports\". According to Bloomberg, SUEK is Russia's largest producer of higher quality thermal coal which, according to Melnichenko, focusses on “high-quality and less-emitting coal”.\n\nAndrey Melnichenko is the main beneficiary of SUEK and SGC. As of 2018, he owns 92.2 percent stake in SUEK and 92.2 percent of SGC. \n\nHe is the Chairman of the Strategy Committee (Non-Executive Director) in SUEK OJSC since April 2015, and in Siberian Generating Company LLC - since September 2016.\n\nIn 2018, he ranked 88th in the \"Forbes\" World's Billionaires list (#7 in Russia).\n\nAndrey Melnichenko's assets include:\n\n\nAndrey Melnichenko is Chairman of the Strategy Committee at EuroChem Group AG, SUEK Group and SGK. \n\nAccording to media reports, in the last decade, Melnichenko's companies invested 16 billion USD in Russia's new economy. His companies reportedly employ over 75,000 people.\n\nMelnichenko's companies reportedly spent $400 million on social and charitable projects in Russia in the last decade. \n\nSince 2007, Andrey Melnichenko has been Member of the Bureau of the Board of Directors of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP), where he is Chairman of the Mining Commission.\n\nThe Andrey Melnichenko Foundation supports talented children in science and education aiming at creating social mobility in Russia. According to the Foundation, he \"wants to ensure that talented Russian youngsters have a chance to become the world's next generation billionaires. Just as he was, at the age of 29, named by Forbes Magazine. In this way, Mr Melnichenko is \"giving back\" to the country that he believes made him who he is today\". \n\nThe Andrey Melnichenko Foundation launched a network of educational and scientific centres for gifted children across Russia and is to award scholarships for studying in higher education institutions to select students. In February 2018, the Foundation organized the “Internet Olympiad in Physics and Mathematics” for high school students in Russia.\n\nHis companies have spent upwards of $400 million on social and charitable programs, which have been recognized as leaders in Russia's annual \"Leaders in Corporate Philanthropy\" survey. \n\nAccording to media reports, he is one of the main social investors and philanthropists of Russia. In 2016, Melnichenko was given a special award for \"good deeds\" and charity works. \n\nIn 2005, Melnichenko married former pop singer and model Aleksandra Melnichenko in the South of France. They have two children.\n\nAndrey Melnichenko owns two high-tech yachts: Sailing Yacht A (2017) and Motor Yacht A (2008) . Both were designed by Philippe Starck. \n\nAccording to media reports, S/Y \"A\" was handed over to him in May 2017 in Monaco. Boat International called it \"the boundary pushing superyacht\" and \"a monument to invention\". In 2016, Bloomberg reported that \"the swanky boat reflects the same eye for innovation and high-tech detail that Melnichenko, 44, is now focusing on the fertilizer business that’s helped make him one of Russia’s youngest billionaires.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338985", "title": "Business performance management", "text": "Business performance management\n\nBusiness performance management is a set of performance management and analytic processes that enables the management of an organization's performance to achieve one or more pre-selected goals. Synonyms for \"business performance management\" include \"corporate performance management (CPM)\" and \"enterprise performance management\".\n\nBusiness performance management is contained within approaches to business process management.\n\nBusiness performance management has three main activities:\n\nAlthough presented here sequentially, typically all three activities will run concurrently, with interventions by managers affecting the choice of goals, the measurement information monitored, and the activities being undertaken by the organization.\n\nBecause business performance management activities in large organizations often involve the collection and reporting of large volumes of data, many software vendors, particularly those offering business intelligence tools, market products intended to assist in this process. As a result of this marketing effort, business performance management is often incorrectly understood as an activity that necessarily relies on software systems to work, and many definitions of business performance management explicitly suggest software as being a definitive component of the approach.\n\nThis interest in business performance management from the software community is sales-driven - \"The biggest growth area in operational BI analysis is in the area of business performance management.\"\n\nSince 1992, business performance management has been strongly influenced by the rise of the balanced scorecard framework. It is common for managers to use the balanced scorecard framework to clarify the goals of an organization, to identify how to track them, and to structure the mechanisms by which interventions will be triggered. These steps are the same as those that are found in BPM, and as a result, balanced scorecard is often used as the basis for business performance management activity with organizations.\n\n, owners have sought to drive strategy down and across their organizations, transform these strategies into actionable metrics, and use analytics to expose the cause-and-effect relationships that, if understood, could give insight into decision-making.\n\nReference to non-business performance management occurs in Sun Tzu's \"The Art of War\". Sun Tzu claims that to succeed in war, one should have full knowledge of one's own strengths and weaknesses as well as those of one's enemies. Lack of either set of knowledge might result in defeat. Parallels between the challenges in business and those of war include:\n\n\nPrior to the start of the Information Age in the late 20th century, businesses sometimes took the trouble to laboriously collect data from non-automated sources. As they lacked computing resources to properly analyze the data, they often made commercial decisions primarily on the basis of intuition.\n\nAs businesses started automating more and more systems, more and more data became available. However, collection often remained a challenge due to a lack of infrastructure for data exchange or due to incompatibilities between systems. Reports on the data gathered sometimes took months to generate. Such reports allowed informed long-term strategic decision-making. However, short-term tactical decision-making often continued to rely on intuition.\n\nIn 1989 Howard Dresner, a research analyst at Gartner, popularized \"business intelligence\" (BI) as an umbrella term to describe a set of concepts and methods to improve business decision-making by using fact-based support systems. Performance management builds on a foundation of BI, but marries it to the planning-and-control cycle of the enterprise with enterprise planning, consolidation, and modeling capabilities.\n\nIncreasing standards, automation, and technologies have led to vast amounts of data becoming available. Data warehouse technologies have allowed the building of repositories to store this data. Improved ETL and enterprise application integration tools have increased the timely collecting of data. OLAP reporting technologies have allowed faster generation of new reports which analyze the data. , business intelligence has become the art of sieving through large amounts of data, extracting useful information and turning that information into actionable knowledge.\n\nBusiness performance management consists of a set of management and analytic processes, supported by technology, that enable businesses to define strategic goals and then measure and manage performance against those goals. Core business performance management processes include financial planning, operational planning, business modeling, consolidation and reporting, analysis, and monitoring of key performance indicators linked to strategy.\n\nBusiness performance management involves consolidation of data from various sources, querying, and analysis of the data, and putting the results into practice.\n\nVarious frameworks for implementing business performance management exist. The discipline gives companies a top-down framework by which to align planning and execution, strategy and tactics, and business-unit and enterprise objectives. Reactions may include the Six Sigma strategy, balanced scorecard, activity-based costing (ABC), Objectives and Key Results (OKR), Total Quality Management, economic value-add, integrated strategic measurement and Theory of Constraints.\n\nSome of the areas from which bank management may gain knowledge by using business performance management include:\n\n\nThough the above list describes what a bank might monitor, it could refer to a telephone company or to a similar service-sector company.\n\nItems of generic importance include:\n\n\nBusiness performance management integrates the company's processes with CRM or ERP. Companies should become better able to gauge customer satisfaction, control customer trends and influence shareholder value.\n\nPeople working in business intelligence have developed tools that ease the work of business performance management, especially when the business-intelligence task involves gathering and analyzing large amounts of unstructured data.\n\nTool categories commonly used for business performance management include:\n\n\n\nQuestions asked when implementing a business performance management program include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185092", "title": "Business rule", "text": "Business rule\n\nA business rule defines or constrains some aspect of business and always resolves to either true or false. Business rules are intended to assert business structure or to control or influence the behavior of the business. Business rules describe the operations, definitions and constraints that apply to an organization. Business rules can apply to people, processes, corporate behavior and computing systems in an organization, and are put in place to help the organization achieve its goals.\n\nFor example, a business rule might state that \"no credit check is to be performed on return customers\". Other examples of business rules include requiring a rental agent to disallow a rental tenant if their credit rating is too low, or requiring company agents to use a list of preferred suppliers and supply schedules.\n\nWhile a business rule may be informal or even unwritten, documenting the rules clearly and making sure that they don't conflict is a valuable activity. When carefully managed, rules can be used to help the organization to better achieve goals, remove obstacles to market growth, reduce costly mistakes, improve communication, comply with legal requirements, and increase customer loyalty.\n\nBusiness rules tell an organization \"what\" it can do in detail, while strategy tells it \"how\" to focus the business at a macro level to optimize results. Put differently, a strategy provides high-level direction about what an organization should do. Business rules provide detailed guidance about how a strategy can be translated to action.\n\nBusiness rules exist for an organization whether or not they are ever written down, talked about or even part of the organization's consciousness. However it is a fairly common practice for organizations to gather business rules. This may happen in one of two ways.\n\nOrganizations may choose to proactively describe their business practices, producing a database of rules. While this activity may be beneficial, it may be expensive and time-consuming. For example, they might hire a consultant to comb through the organization to document and consolidate the various standards and methods currently in practice.\n\nGathering business rules is also called rules harvesting or business rule mining. The business analyst or consultant can extract the rules from IT documentation (like use cases, specifications or system code). They may also organize workshops and interviews with subject matter experts (commonly abbreviated as SMEs). Software technologies designed to capture business rules through analysis of legacy source code or of actual user behavior can accelerate the rule gathering processing.\n\nMore commonly, business rules are discovered and documented informally during the initial stages of a project. In this case the collecting of the business rules is incidental. In addition, business projects, such as the launching of a new product or the re-engineering of a complex process, might lead to the definition of new business rules. This practice of incidental, or emergent, business rule gathering is vulnerable to the creation of inconsistent or even conflicting business rules within different organizational units, or within the same organizational unit over time. This inconsistency creates problems that can be difficult to find and fix.\n\nAllowing business rules to be documented during the course of business projects is less expensive and easier to accomplish than the first approach, but if the rules are not collected in a consistent manner, they are not valuable. In order to teach business people about the best ways to gather and document business rules, experts in business analysis have created the Business Rules Methodology. This methodology defines a process of capturing business rules in natural language, in a verifiable and understandable way. This process is not difficult to learn, can be performed in real-time, and empowers business stakeholders to manage their own business rules in a consistent manner.\n\nAccording to the white paper by the Business Rules Group, a statement of a business rule falls into one of four categories:\nThe most basic element of a business rule is the language used to express it. The very definition of a term is itself a business rule that describes how people think and talk about things. Thus, defining a term is establishing a category of business rule. Terms have traditionally been documented in a Glossary or as entities in a conceptual model.\n\nThe nature or operating structure of an organization can be described in terms of the facts that relate terms to each other. To say that a customer can place an order is NOT a business rule, but a \"fact\". Facts can be documented as natural language sentences or as relationships, attributes, and generalization structures in a graphical model.\n\nEvery enterprise constrains behavior in some way, and this is closely related to constraints on what data may or may not be updated. To prevent a record from being made is, in many cases, to prevent an action from taking place.\n\nBusiness rules (including laws of nature) define how knowledge in one form may be transformed into other knowledge, possibly in a different form.\n\nBusiness rules are gathered in these situations: \nThis lack of consistent approach is mostly due to the cost and effort required to maintain the list of rules.\n\nWhile newer software tools are able to combine business rule management and execution, it is important to realize that these two ideas are distinct, and each provides value that is different from the other. Software packages automate business rules using business logic. The term \"business rule\" is sometimes used interchangeably with \"business logic\"; however the latter connotes an engineering practice and the former an intrinsic business practice. There is value in outlining an organization's business rules regardless of whether this information is used to automate its operations.\n\nOne of the pitfalls in trying to fill the gap between rules management and execution is trying to give business rules the syntax of logic, and merely describing logical constructs in a natural language. Translation for engines is easier, but business users will no longer be able to write down the rules.\n\nBusiness rules can be expressed using modeling approaches such as Unified Modeling Language, Z notation, Business Process Execution Language, Business Process Modeling Notation, Decision Model and Notation or the Semantics of Business Vocabulary and Business Rules (SBVR).\n\nBusiness rules encoded in computer code in an operational program are known as business logic.\n\nSimilar to how Business Risks can be structured as:\n\nIf <condition(s)> Then <consequence(s)>\n\na Business Rule can be structured as:\n\nWhen <condition(s)> Then <imposition(s)> Otherwise <consequence(s)>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38087826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38087826", "title": "Capital Markets Authority of Kenya", "text": "Capital Markets Authority of Kenya\n\nThe Capital Markets Authority of Kenya, also Capital Markets Authority (CMA), is an independent government regulating agency responsible for supervising, licensing and monitoring the activities of market intermediaries, including the stock exchange, and the central depository and settlement system and all the other persons licensed under the Capital Markets Act of Kenya.\nThe Capital Markets Authority (\"CMA\") provides regulation for the financial services sector by providing guidelines for the asset allocation. In the Capital Markets Act Cap 485A amended in 2013 guidelines for the amount of funds to be invested in each class of assets i.e. equities, government bonds and bills are given in ranges.\n\nThe Capital Markets Authority is a corporate body with perpetual succession and a common seal and capable in its corporate name of:\n\nThe main objectives of the CMA are stated to be:-\n\nThe Authority consists of -\n\nThe current members of the CMA Board of Directors are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3976621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3976621", "title": "Carsten Anker", "text": "Carsten Anker\n\nCarsten Tank Anker (17 November 1747 – 13 March 1824) was a Norwegian businessman, civil servant, politician and one of the Fathers of the Constitution of Norway. He was the owner of the manor house in Akershus at which the original National Assembly (\"Riksforsamlingen\") of Norway was held. The manor house has since then been given the name \"Eidsvollsbygningen\".\n\nBorn in Frederikshald, he was the son of the trader Erik Ancher (1709–1785) and cousin of Bernt Anker. In 1759 Carsten left on a journey abroad that was to last for several years, together with his brother Peter and four cousins from Christiania. From 1771 to 1772 he was an envoy from several of the major Norwegian trading companies in Stockholm to negotiate better conditions for the timber trade on the river Klarälven, without much success. While in Sweden, however, there arose suspicion that he was also working with a secret, political agenda, and when Gustav III conducted his coup d'état, Anker was asked by the government in Copenhagen to return.\n\nHe then started his career as a civil servant. On 10 May 1774 he was appointed secretary in the \"General-Landøkonomi- og Kommercekollegiet\" (College of General Rural Economy and Commerce), in 1776 he was made \"justisråd\", in 1781 third deputy of the \"Bjærgværksdirektoiret\" (Mining Directory) and in 1784 second deputy. He was given the, mostly honorary, titles of \"etatsråd\" and \"konferensråd\" in 1779 and 1784 respectively, and on 14 January 1779 he was also made a member of the nobility. When \"Bjærgværksdirektoiret\" was dissolved by royal resolution on 28 January 1791, Anker was given a pension, but kept a position as first director of the so-called \"Realisations-Kommission\" (Realisation Committee). This position entailed among other things special responsibility for the government's Norwegian glassmaking companies. In 1792 he was made first director of \"det dansk-asiatiske Kompagni\" (the Danish-Asian Company), a position he kept until 1811. He also acquired considerable property in Norway by buying the historic Eidsvoll Ironworks (\"Eidsvoll Verk\"). He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1804.\n\nAs an envoy of \"det dansk-asiatiske Kompagni\", he stayed in London from January 1805 to take care of the company's business affairs vis-à-vis the English East India Company. This task he seems to have performed in an excellent manner. In 1807 he carried out a large transaction of money for the government in Hamburg, and finalised a deal in ship timber for the navy. In 1811 he took up permanent residence at Eidsvoll Ironworks.\n\nDuring his stay in Copenhagen, he had become an intimate acquaintance of the heir presumptive to the throne, Christian Frederik. When the prince arrived in Norway as \"stattholder\" in 1813, Anker was immediately made one of the prince's closest advisors. After the Treaty of Kiel the prince held a meeting at Eidsvoll during his journey to Trondheim, and on the way back he convened the \"Stormannsmøtet\" (gathering of notables) of Eidsvoll on 16 February 1814, where it was decided that Norway should declare its independence, and that a National Assembly should be convened, also to be held at Eidsvoll.\n\nBefore the National Assembly gathered, Anker had left Norway, and could therefore not take up his position in the new Norwegian government, where he was appointed councillor of government for the 5th Ministry (economy) on 2 March, and councillor of state on 19 May. In March 1814 he had crossed the North Sea to promote Norway's interests in England. Here he worked to put the interests of Sweden and the great powers up against each other, but achieved little. In 1815 he was dismissed as councillor of state, and returned to Norway, where he developed a close relationship to the crown prince Karl Johan.\n\nIn the last years of his life Anker's economy was not good; the ironworks was virtually closed down. Yet he continued to administer the government's glassmaking companies, and died during a visit to the glassworks at Biri. He had literary interests, acted as a patron, and had a large collection of manuscripts and books. In 1784 he married Hedvig Caroline Ernestine Christine Wegener (1763–1846).\n\n"}
{"id": "3887910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3887910", "title": "Charles I. du Pont", "text": "Charles I. du Pont\n\nCharles Irénée du Pont (March 29, 1797 – January 31, 1869) was an American manufacturer and politician, and an early member of the prominent du Pont family business. He was a nephew of Eleuthère Irénée du Pont, the founder of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, and a member of the Delaware General Assembly.\n\nDu Pont was born March 29, 1797, in Charleston, South Carolina, the eldest son of French immigrants Victor Marie du Pont de Nemours (born 1767 in Paris) and Gabrielle Joséphine de la Fite de Pelleport (born 1770 in Stenay). He lived with his parents in New York City until they established themselves in the wool manufacturing business at across from the Brandywine Creek from the Eleutherian Mills near Greenville, Delaware.\n\nHe was educated at Mount Airy College in Germantown, Philadelphia, from 1809 to 1813, when he left school to work with his father in Delaware.\n\nIn 1815, the textile manufacturing company of Du Pont, Bauduy & Co. ended acrimoniously. , a Frenchman who had invested in the business in 1803, eventually sued the du Ponts over various disagreements. (The lawsuit was decided in the du Pont's favor in 1924.)\n\nAfter de Bauduy's departure, Charles and his father formed the partnership of Victor & Charles I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. After Victor's death in 1827, the firm continued to operate as Charles I. du Pont & Co., with the U.S. Army as a major client for its cloth. Charlies retired in 1856, at which point E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co. purchased his company.\n\nIn addition to his business interest, du Pont was very active in civic and political affairs. Du Pont was a member of the Whig Party, who served in the State Senate from New Castle County for four terms in the Delaware General Assembly from 1841-1847.\n\nHe was elected a director of the Farmers' Bank of Delaware in 1830, and served as president of the bank from 1865-1868. In 1853, he was made director of the Delaware Railroad Company, and was also a director of the Philadelphia, Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Company and the Columbia Insurance Co. of Philadelphia. He was also of the Brandywine Manufacturers' Sunday School and vice president of the Delaware Improvement Association.\n\nIn 1824, du Pont married Dorcas Montgomery Van Dyke (born 1806), daughter of U.S. Senator and Representative Nicholas Van Dyke III and granddaughter of Delaware Governor Nicholas Van Dyke, Jr.. Their wedding was attended by the Marquis de Lafayette. They had three children, Victor, Mary Van Dyke and Charles, Jr.\n\nAfter Dorcas' death in 1838, he married Ann Ridgely (born 1815). Like his first wife, Ridgely was the daughter of a U.S. Senator and Representative from Delaware, Henry M. Ridgely. They had two children, Amélia Elizabeth (who married her cousin Eugene du Pont) and Henry Ridgely.\n\nDu Pont died January 31, 1869, at Louviers, his family estate, and is buried at the Du Pont de Nemours Cemetery at Winterthur, near Greenville.\n\n"}
{"id": "38217650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38217650", "title": "Chief experience officer", "text": "Chief experience officer\n\nA chief experience officer (CXO) is an executive responsible for the overall experience of an organization's products and services. As user experience (UX) is quickly becoming a key differentiator in the modern business landscape, the CXO is charged with bringing holistic experience design to the boardroom and making it an intrinsic part of the company's strategy and culture.\n\nA CXO's responsibilities include:\nIn a piece in UX Magazine, Lis Hubert said the goal of having a CXO is \"to have someone responsible for curating and maintaining a holistic user-, business-, and technology-appropriate experience\" at the C-level. Authors Claudia Fisher and Christine Vallaster state that a CXO or chief marketing officer is a good idea when \"the brand is seen as a strategic driver of the organization.\"\n\nHoward Larkin states that in healthcare, the CXO is \"responsible for making sure every aspect of a complex delivery system consistently meets basic patient and human needs\" and what it calls \"operationalizing the patient experience mission.\"\n\nIn 2006 the New York Times discussed the role of the chief experience officer in the context of a number of other \"unconventional\" and \"wacky\" titles being created by Madison Avenue firms with the intent to \"signal a realization by an advertiser or agency that in a rapidly changing marketing and media landscape, the time for the tried and true has come and gone.\"\n\nThe Wharton Business School has called the proliferation of roles in the C-Suite \"Title Inflation\", and Herman and Giola warn about the \"dangerous side effects\" of \"job title invention\".\n\nIn a 2012 publication, it was reported that \"chief customer officer\" (30%) and \"chief client officer\" (15%) were more commonly used for the role than \"chief experience officer\" (10%), with 45% utilizing other variations.\n\n"}
{"id": "48841865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48841865", "title": "Chopourian v. Catholic Healthcare West", "text": "Chopourian v. Catholic Healthcare West\n\nChopourian v. Catholic Healthcare West, Case No. 2:09-CV-02972-KJM-KJN (E.D. Cal. Feb. 28, 2012), was a court case in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California which, at the time, was believed to be the largest single-plaintiff employment verdict in United States history at $167,720,488. The record has since been surpassed by the verdict in Juarez v. AutoZone Stores, Inc., Case No. 08-CV-00417-WVG (S.D. Cal. Nov. 17, 2014) at $185,872,719.52. \n\nAni Chopourian was employed as a Physician Assistant by Catholic Healthcare West (now Dignity Health), Mercy General Hospital in the Cardio Vascular Operating Rooms (“CVOR”) from August 2006 to August 2008. A graduate of Yale University School of Medicine Physician Associates Program in 1999, Ms. Chopourian had been nationally certified by the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants since initially obtaining her license in 1999. As a Physician Assistant in the CVOR, Ms. Chopourian’s job responsibilities included the treatment and care for patients undergoing a variety of open heart surgeries including, but not limited to: Coronary Artery Bypass, Aortic/Mitral Valve Replacement, and Congenital Heart Defect Repair. In furtherance of this work, Ms. Chopourian supported heart surgery procedures by providing a number of important functions, including vein/artery harvesting, retraction of the sternum, and other technical functions to assist the heart surgeon. During her employment, Ms. Chopourian worked with numerous different heart surgeons in four different operating rooms in two separate facilities. \n\nWithin months of her employment, in or around October 2006, Ms. Chopourian spoke to her supervisor, Jean Scrafton, about the fact that she was not getting her meal breaks. Ms. Chopourian explained that, as a result of not being able to eat within the first five hours of her shift, she would feel lightheaded and was concerned her performance was being affected. Ms. Chopourian also made a written complaint about this fact in an “Event Report.” In addition to her complaints about lunch breaks, Ms. Chopourian submitted at least 18 written complaints to hospital managers concerning the working conditions in the hospital, including failure to provide required meal breaks, unsafe surgical conditions, bullying, mismanaged care during surgery, verbal abuse by one of the heart surgeons, mistreatment by a coworker, as well as other issues. Ms. Chopourian’s final complaint was submitted July 31, 2008 (8 days before her termination) and was stamped received by human resources.\nAccording to the schedule for August 2008 given to Plaintiff regarding on-call assignments, there was no indication Ms. Chopourian would be required to provide post-surgical rounds on Sunday, August 3, 2008. On Saturday night, August 2, 2008, according to procedure, Ms. Chopourian called the PM assignment recording to see if she was needed, as she was on call. There was nothing on the outgoing message indicating she was needed on August 3, 2008. On Sunday, August 3, 2008, Ms. Chopourian received a call from the hospital asking why she was not present to provide post-surgical floor coverage. Ms. Chopourian explained that she was not aware floor coverage was required. Ms. Chopourian offered to come in to provide coverage, but was told not to do so, that coverage was already obtained and her presence was no longer required. On August 7, 2008, Catholic Healthcare West terminated Ms. Chopourian for failing to report to work on Sunday, August 3, 2008. \n\nOn August 1, 2009, almost a year after her termination from Catholic Healthcare West, Ms. Chopourian secured a position as a Physician Assistant with Radiological Associates of Sacramento Medical Group, Inc. (“RAS”). A condition of employment was that she would obtain privileging at Mercy General Hospital. Ms. Chopourian was originally informed by Mercy that there would be no problem obtaining privileging. She was then informed that she would need national certification to obtain privileging. Ms. Chopourian studied for and took the exam, then renewed her application. In the interim, Ms. Chopourian’s first deposition for her pending lawsuit against Catholic Healthcare West was taken on March 15, 2010. During the deposition, Defendant’s counsel questioned Ms. Chopourian about documents she recently produced in response to discovery requests and concluded on the record that Ms. Chopourian had violated medical privacy laws. Ms. Chopourian was never investigated for such a violation, assessed civil penalties, or charged with criminal violation. In May 2010, Ms. Chopourian was informed that her credentialing privileges were being held up because of allegations that she violated patient privacy laws. Ms. Chopourian was denied privileges on June 8, 2010 and subsequently lost her job at RAS on June 21, 2010.\n\nThe verdict in favor of Plaintiff included $3,720,488 in economic damages, $39,000,000 in non-economic damages, and $125,000,000 in punitive damages. . The trial lasted 11 days and the jury deliberated for 3 days before unanimously finding in favor of Plaintiff on her claims of hostile work environment, retaliation for workplace complaints, defamation, and intentional interference with economic advantage. .\n\nCounsel for Plaintiff:\n\nCounsel for Defense:\n"}
{"id": "36054826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36054826", "title": "Clare Barnes Jr.", "text": "Clare Barnes Jr.\n\nClarence A. Barnes Jr. (usually referred to as Clare Barnes Jr. during his days as a popular author) (c. 1907-February 2, 1992) was an American author and advertising agency art director. He was best known for his series of books, starting in 1949 with \"White Collar Zoo\", which featured animal photos with humorous captions. \"White Collar Zoo\" was the number 1 non-fiction bestseller of 1949 on the New York Times Best Seller list, and its followup \"Home Sweet Zoo\" was number 4.\n\nBarnes was born in Boston and received an undergraduate degree from Yale University in 1929. He worked for a number of advertising agencies. He died in his Manhattan home on February 2, 1992 of emphysema at age 85. He also had a home in Edgartown, Massachusetts.\n\nBarnes' father, Clarence A. Barnes, was a politician and the Attorney General of Massachusetts in the late 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "52182378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52182378", "title": "Daniel Gómez (entrepreneur)", "text": "Daniel Gómez (entrepreneur)\n\nDaniel Gómez Íñiguez is a Mexican entrepreneur distinguished for his appearance in business magazines like Forbes and INC before the age of 21. He was recognized as the most innovative entrepreneur of the TR35 of 2013. He co-founded the biodiesel company Bioenergy Solutions (SOLBEN), a for-profit business that produces 80% of the biodiesel produced in Mexico.\n\nHe created his first company in early 2009, at that time he was at the age of 16, and he was studying in high school. This enterprise was SOLBEN, a Mexican company that manufactures and sells machinery to produce biodiesel. He co-founded SOLBEN with his three partners Guillermo Colunga, Antonio Lopez, and Mauricio Pareja. Their company brought in over $1 million in revenue during its first year of business.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, he continued his studies as a chemical engineer at Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM). In 2011, he had the idea to create a social media platform that would reduce the communication gap between the Mexican population and their leaders. This project proposal was name \"Caras politicas\". He had difficulties establishing this project in Mexico, so he moved the project to the European continent, and renamed it GovFaces. GovFaces is a project that pretends to create a link between citizens of different European nations and their local representatives, as well as their representatives at the European Parliament and European Commission.\n\nDaniel has won awards such as the Global Student Entrepreneur Award, Talent and Innovation Challenges of the Americas 2011 Award, NY Stock Exchange Intelius Entrepreneurship Award, Mexican Stock Exchange Entrepreneurship Award, and the INC 30 Under 30 Award. At the age of 21, Forbes magazine recognized Gómez as a young and successful entrepreneur with two big companies. In 2013, he was name the most innovative entrepreneur of the TR35, an event hosted by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) that recognizes young entrepreneurs under the age of 35 years old\".\"\n"}
{"id": "34322877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34322877", "title": "Deformulation", "text": "Deformulation\n\nDeformulation refers to a set of analytical procedures used to separate and identify individual components of a formulated chemical substance. Deformulation applies methods of analytical chemistry and is often used to obtain competitive intelligence about chemical products. Deformulation is related to reverse engineering; however, the latter concept is most closely associated with procedures used to discover working principles of a device or a designed system through examination and disassembly of its structure. The term, reverse engineering, has become specifically and almost exclusively linked to the field of software engineering; whereas, deformulation is a term more applicable to the field of chemical manufacturing. Deformulation of a multicomponent chemical mixture may occur in several contexts, including the investigation of causes of chemical product failure, competitive benchmarking, legal inquiry to obtain evidence of patent infringement, or new product research and development. Depending upon this context and upon the level of information sought, the requirements of analyses for deformulation may differ. Deformulation processes typically require the application of several analytical methods, and the selection of methods is dependent upon the degree of confidence required in the results. Methods of deformulation also have similarity to methods of forensic chemistry in which analytical procedures may be applied to discover the causes of material failure or to resolve a legal question.\n\nIn The United States, federal law recognizes a legal practice for the study of an item in hopes of obtaining a detailed understanding of the\nway in which it works for the purpose of creating duplicate or superior products without the benefit of having the plans for the original item. The studied item must first have been legally obtained, not stolen or otherwise misappropriated. The purpose of intellectual property protection is to provide incentives to invest and to advance the collective knowledge. It is felt that deformulation or reverse engineering helps to educate and promote healthy competition. It is considered to be a learning tool which provides a path to making new, competitive products that perform better and at lower cost than what is currently on the market. Deformulation is often considered along with benchmarking, patent mapping, and other competitor intelligence gathering processes as a means of conducting day-to-day business.\n\nOther countries may have different conceptions about intellectual property rights and about legal allowances for deformulation or reverse engineering of items. For information concerning the legal status of deformulation practices in other countries throughout the world it is advisable to consult with an expert on intellectual property law.\n\nA preliminary zeroth order analysis may be performed to answer fundamental questions about the nature of the unknown material. Methods that might be used for the preliminary analysis include spectroscopic methods, such as infrared spectroscopy or x-ray fluorescence spectroscopy. The results of the zeroth order characterization of the material inform subsequent choices in later stages of analysis.\n\nA formulated chemical mixture may contain multiple phases, such as suspended or emulsified material. A first-order analysis of the material may involve the separation of phases. Centrifugation, extraction, and filtration are examples of methods which separate material in different phases. Centrifugation is effective to separate phases that differ in density. Extraction is effective to separate immiscible liquid phases. Filtration is effective to separate dispersed particles that are sufficiently large in size to be trapped in a filter. This initial separation may require the selection of appropriate solvents to either dissolve solid components or to act as a diluent for liquids. The quantitative determination of phases is often determined gravimetrically.\n\nOnce separated, each material phase is itself a chemical mixture to be further analyzed. A second-order analysis of each phase will typically involve a selection among available analytical methods to further separate these components. Analytical methods used on liquid phases might include distillation or one of a variety of chromatographic separation methods. Distillation separates the components of a liquid mixture according to differences in their boiling points. Chomatography separates components of a liquid or gaseous mixture according to differences in retention time as the mixture interacts with a stationary phase. Individual components thus separated can then be identified by a variety of detection methods, including infrared spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry. Methods used to further analyze solids might include thermal analysis (such as thermogravimetric analysis or differential scanning calorimetry), x-ray diffraction to characterize crystalline solids, microscopy, pyrolysis, combustion analysis, or surface spectroscopic methods.\n\nIn some contexts further stages of analysis of the separated components may be required. The active ingredients of a formulated chemical product that differentiate it from another similar material may include proprietary ingredients or specific functional additives. Such ingredients that play a key role in the performance of the material in an application may require a third-order analysis to more completely characterize them. Some examples of functional additives include surfactants, emulsifiers, dispersants, adhesion promotors, leveling agents, dyes and pigments, antioxidants, preservatives, and optical brighteners. Practically every type of chemically formulated product is associated with its own formulary of likely functional additive choices that can fulfill some critical role in performance. Deformulation may thus require both a breakdown of material composition and also identification of the functional role of key ingredients.\n\nThe analytical determination of a functional additive has particular problems associated with it. The concentration of a functional additive may be low compared to other ingredients; therefore, it may be difficult to detect. Proprietary ingredients are especially difficult to correctly identify. The functional role of a key component may not be obvious upon inspection. A key ingredient may be undisclosed by the maker of the material, but rather kept as a trade secret. Careful study of trade literature and patent filings associated with the manufacturer may aid the analyst in the characterization.\n"}
{"id": "5162684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5162684", "title": "Firm offer", "text": "Firm offer\n\nA firm offer is an offer that will remain open for a certain period or until a certain time or occurrence of a certain event, during which it is incapable of being revoked. As a general rule, all offers are revocable at any time prior to acceptance, even those offers that purport to be irrevocable on their face.\n\nIn the United States, an exception is the merchant firm offer rule set out in Uniform Commercial Code - § 2-205, which states that an offer is firm and irrevocable if it is an offer to buy or sell goods made by a merchant and it is in writing and signed by the offeror. Such an offer is irrevocable even in the absence of consideration. If no time is stated, it is irrevocable for a reasonable time, but in no event may a period of irrevocability exceed three months. Any such term of assurance in a form supplied by the offeree must be separately signed by the offeror.\n\nHowever, even when the period of irrevocability expires, the offer may still remain open until revoked or rejected according to the general rules regarding termination of an offer.\n\nIf the offeree rejects, fails to accept the terms of the offer, fixed or otherwise, or makes a counter-offer, then the original offer is terminated.\n\n"}
{"id": "4437591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4437591", "title": "Forfaiting", "text": "Forfaiting\n\nIn trade finance, forfaiting is a service providing medium-term financial support for export/import of capital goods. The third party providing the support is termed the forfaiter. The forfaiter provides medium-term finance to, and will commonly also take on certain risks from, the importer; and takes on all risk from the exporter, in return for a margin. Payment may be by negotiable instrument, enabling the forfaiter to lay off some risks. Like factoring, forfaiting involves sale of financial assets from the seller’s receivables. Key differences are that forfait supports the buyer (importer) as well as the seller (exporter), and is available only for export/import transactions and in relation to capital goods. The word \"forfaiting\" is derived from the French word \"forfait\", meaning to relinquish a right (in this case, the exporter’s right to receive payment from the customer - the importer).\n\nThe characteristics of a forfaiting transaction are:\n\nAt its simplest, the receivables should be evidenced by a promissory note, a bill of exchange, a deferred-payment letter of credit, or a letter of forfaiting.\n\nThree elements relate to the pricing of a forfaiting transaction:\n\nThe benefits to the exporter from forfaiting include eliminating political, transfer, and commercial risks and improving cash flows. The benefit to the forfaiter is the extra margin on the loan to the exporter.\n\nThe oldest forfaiting association in the world is VEFI, the Association of Forfaiters in Switzerland (), which was founded in 1978. The International Trade & Forfaiting Association (ITFA) was founded in 1999 as a worldwide trade association for the forfaiting industry with a cash contribution from VEFI. Its purpose is to develop business relationships and assist other forfaiting-related organizations.\n"}
{"id": "37442721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37442721", "title": "Francisco J. Collazo", "text": "Francisco J. Collazo\n\nFrancisco J. Collazo (born 1931) is the CEO and President of Collazo Enterprises Inc. He is the co-founder of COLSA Corporation, a business enterprise which provides engineering and support services to NASA, U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Missile Defense Agency. In 2012, COLSA Corp. was recognized by Hispanic Business Magazine as being one of the top 100 Hispanic Businesses in the United States.\n\nCollazo was born in the city of Utuado, Puerto Rico and grew up in his father's farm. He received his primary education in his hometown. In 1946, he dropped out of high school and joined the United States Army. He continued his education while serving in the military and retired from the Army after 30 years of service with the rank of Chief Warrant Officer. Among his military decorations was the Meritorious Service Medal and the Bronze Star Medal with an Oak Leaf Cluster for his service during the Vietnam War. Mr. Collazo is a service-connected disabled veteran.\n\nCollazo attended the University of Texas in Austin, Texas where he earned a bachelor's degree in Mathematics and Computer Science. He later earned a master of Computer Systems Engineering from the Southeastern Institute of Technology.\n\nCollazo and his wife, whom he married in 1955, moved to Huntsville, Alabama. In 1980, they founded COLSA Corporation in the garage of their home. The principal idea behind the foundation of the new company was to provide systems analysis and engineering in support of air defense systems material development. By 1983, the company had 20 employees. That same year, the Government awarded COLSA its first prime contract.\n\nThe company moved from Collazo's garage to South Memorial Parkway in Huntsville and later to Sparkman Drive. The company is current;y located in Cummings Research Park. In 1997, COLSA was awarded the Cogswell Award for Excellence in Security Operations. In 2003, COLSA acquired Huntsville-based Pace and Waite, Inc., and Digital Wizards, Inc. Among COLSA’s clients are NASA, the U.S. Army, the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Navy, the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Missile Defense Agency.\n\nUnder Collazo's leadership the company grew and continued to expand. The company has regional offices in Washington, DC; Orlando, Florida; Shalimar, Florida; San Diego, California, Colorado Springs, Colorado and Sierra Vista, Arizona.\n\nOn January 2, 1996, Collazo incorporated Collazo Enterprises the primary holding company that owns all stock in COLSA Corporation, COLSA International, FJC Growth Capital, and FCA Properties. In 2000, Collazo Enterprises, Inc. established the Francisco J. Collazo (COLSA) Scholarship at the University of Alabama. The scholarship is awarded to full-time students majoring in Engineering, Science, Mathematics, or Technology and is based on academic merit, leadership potential, and contributions to school and community.\n\nCollazo retired from the Army in 1976 and lives together with his wife has three children and seven grandchildren, continues to reside in Huntsville. He continues to be the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of COLSA Corporation. In May 2003, he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Science from the University of Alabama in Huntsville. On October 25, 2012, COLSA Corp. was recognized by Hispanic Business Magazine as being one of the top 100 Hispanic Businesses in the United States.\n\nAmong Collazo 's decorations are the following:\n"}
{"id": "13250822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13250822", "title": "Hendrik Pieter Nicolaas Muller", "text": "Hendrik Pieter Nicolaas Muller\n\nHendrik Pieter Nicolaas \"Henk\" Muller, GON, RNL, FRGS (2 April 1859 – 11 August 1941) was a Dutch businessman, diplomat, explorer, publicist, and philanthropist. He was a son of Hendrik Muller Sz., a Rotterdam-based Dutch businessman and politician, and Marie Cornelie van Rijckevorsel, member of another prominent Rotterdam based business family.\n\nMuller started his career as a businessman, trading with East and West Africa. In his mid-twenties he travelled to Zanzibar, Mozambique, and South Africa for business purposes, but showed himself a keen ethnographer as well, collecting ethnographic artefacts and writing reports about the societies and people he encountered on his way. In 1890, Muller retired from business for personal reasons, and went to Germany to study ethnography and geography. He graduated with a PhD dissertation four years later.\n\nIn 1896 he was first appointed consul and later consul general for the Orange Free State. Muller held this position all through the Second Boer War and his high-profile performance as European representative for this Boer republic won him considerable fame and notoriety, which lasted all his life. After the Treaty of Vereeniging was signed in 1902 Muller retired to a life of travelling and writing for some years, making Muller a household name with his travel books. In 1919 the Dutch government appointed him envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Romania, and later to Czechoslovakia, where he retired in 1932. As diplomat Muller strongly promoted Dutch business interests, especially in oil and electrotechnics.\n\nMuller was a prolific writer. Over the course of his life he published well over two hundred articles, brochures, and books about his travels through the world, about South Africa and the Boers, and about Dutch foreign policy and diplomacy, apart from a range of other subjects. Muller gathered a large fortune with well appointed private investments. He bequeathed his considerable wealth to a private fund in support of academic research and cultural heritage.\n\nHendrik Pieter Nicolaas Muller was born in Rotterdam (Netherlands) on 2 April 1859, as the third child and second son of Hendrik Muller Sz. and Marie Cornelie van Rijckevorsel. His father was a successful businessman based in Rotterdam and trading with Africa and the Netherlands East Indies. H.P.N. Muller's maternal grandfather, Abram van Rijckevorsel, was the doyen of the Rotterdam merchant community in the early part of the nineteenth century. Both his father and maternal grandfather were politicians as well, liberals who staunchly defended the principle of free trade, and both were at one time members of the Senate of the States-General of the Netherlands.\n\nMuller's paternal grandfather was a German immigrant to the Netherlands and a Doopsgezind (Mennonite) minister and professor of theology in Amsterdam. The Muller family was fairly prominent in the Netherlands in the nineteenth and early twentieth century, with Christian ministers, professors of literature and history, archivists, antiquarian booksellers, statesmen and businessmen in their midst. \n\nMuller was destined to step into his father's footsteps and become a businessman. He first attended the private institution Delfos followed by the Hogere Burgerschool (high school) in Rotterdam, before continuing his education in Germany, at the \"Hohe Real Schule\" in Frankfurt-am-Main, to specialise in trade and business. After finishing his studies with good results, he continued his training with internships in business firms in Liverpool, Manchester, and Marseilles. His first serious job came when his father called him back to Rotterdam in 1882, to become interim manager of the Handels Compagnie Mozambique (Trading Company Mozambique), an ill-performing trading firm doing business in Mozambique. In 1882/'83 Muller travelled to East Africa and visited all the trading posts and establishments of the firm, changing business practices. At the end of his trip he made an extensive tour of South Africa, visiting Natal, Zululand, Transvaal, the Orange Free State, and the Cape Colony. On his return to Rotterdam he advised the directors of the company on business opportunities. Subsequently he was appointed co-director of the reconstituted company, now called the Oost-Afrikaansche Compagnie (East African Company), as well as deputy manager in his father's firm, Hendrik Muller & Co., which had important trading interests in Liberia and elsewhere in West Africa.\n\nIn the 1880s Muller was active for his businesses, and travelled to the Congo Conference in Berlin in 1884, to Portugal in 1886 and North Africa in 1889. In the same year he succeeded his father as consul general for Liberia in the Netherlands, a position he would hold until 1913. After a third business journey to Africa in 1890, now to Liberia and the Gold Coast, for Hendrik Muller & Co., he returned home seriously ill, and had to convalesce for months. In this period he fell out with his father and younger brother Abram Muller, about both personal and business matters. It was a personal break that would never be healed and with professional repercussions. In 1891 Muller left business for good and embarked on a totally new career.\n\nAlready in the 1880s, Muller had dabbled in ethnography and writing. On the basis of materials gathered on his journey to East Africa and South Africa in 1882/’83, he had held public lectures throughout the Netherlands and Belgium. He also published articles on his trip in Dutch magazines and newspapers, and collated these publications into a book titled \"Zuid-Afrika\". It made him somewhat of a celebrity, and an expert on South Africa and East Africa. During his journey Muller had also collected a large number of ethnographic objects and artefacts, on which he published a richly illustrated study in 1892, together with Joh. F. Snelleman, curator of the Africa collection in the Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde (National Museum of Ethnology) in Leiden.\n\nOnce freed from running the better part of two businesses, and financially independent, Muller went to Germany to study geography and ethnography. He attended lectures at the universities of Heidelberg and Leipzig before completing his doctorate at the University of Giessen in 1894, summa cum laude. His thesis \"Land und Leute zwischen Zambezi und Limpopo\" (\"Land and People between Zambezi and Limpopo\") was mainly based on secondary material, rather than the materials collected and observations made by Muller himself during his time in East Africa. This limited the originality of the study, although in its time it was appreciated as an important piece of academic work, and was also published in a commercial version.\n\nAfter his return to the Netherlands, H.P.N. Muller settled down in The Hague, where he was originally only occupied with his consular duties for Liberia, his membership of the Commission for Consular Examinations (since 1890) and his writing. Early in 1896 Muller was appointed as consul for the Orange Free State in the provinces of North and South Holland, assisting the consul general H.A.L. Hamelberg. He received the appointment on the strength of his publications about South Africa. After Hamelberg's death later in 1896 Muller succeeded him as consul general. It was an honorary position. In the following years Muller wholeheartedly set out to work for the Orange Free State and its interests in Europe. His predecessor Hamelberg had not only been consul general, but had on occasion also acted as special envoy to be able to negotiate treaties and accords with foreign powers. Muller also acted as special envoy and in this capacity inter alia enrolled the Orange Free State in the Universal Postal Union, the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, and the Geneva Conventions, and negotiated treaties of friendship and trade with Germany, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. He also strengthened the consular representation of the Orange Free State in Europe and inquired into all kinds of practical issues like a cure for rinderpest and improved methods of irrigation.\n\nIn 1898 Muller travelled to South Africa, where he visited Cape Town, the Orange Free State, and the Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek. In Pretoria he attended the inauguration of President Kruger and in Bloemfontein he struck up a friendship with the newly elected President M.T. Steyn and his family. He also renewed his relations with other leading statesmen, like former President F.W. Reitz, government secretary P.J. Blignaut, and chairman of the Volksraad C.H. Wessels. In Cape Town, he was granted an audience with High Commissioner Sir Alfred Milner.\nOnce back in the Netherlands, the political situation in South Africa became tense very rapidly, and Muller did all he could to propagate the cause of the Boer Republics in the press and via diplomatic channels. Once the South African War broke out in October 1899, Muller set up an elaborate operation to support the cause of the war for the Orange Free State. He mobilised public support in the Netherlands, Germany and the United States of America and had public gatherings organised. Through his many contacts with the European press Muller saw to it that the Boer cause was extensively covered in the newspapers, usually in his own words, but published in the name of the respective editor. His office in The Hague was the hub of diplomatic and consular activity in this period, with several secretaries working continuously on the gathering of information and dealing with correspondence. In the war effort Muller cooperated with the in Dordrecht, the Nederlandsche Zuid-Afrikaansche Vereeniging in Amsterdam, and of course the Transvaal's diplomatic representative in Brussels, Dr. W.J. Leyds. Originally the relationship between Muller and Leyds was cordial, but with time it soured and turned into open animosity. Both men were strong personalities with strong convictions. The fact that Muller was only consul general and Leyds an accredited diplomat was not helpful either and neither was the fact that – at least in Muller's opinion – the Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek received much more attention than the Orange Free State. The first time problems arose in the open was in 1900, when the Boer Republics sent a joint Special Diplomatic Delegation to Europe and the United States, which was ill-prepared and for which Leyds had very different ideas than Muller.\n\nIn 1901 Muller travelled to the United States himself to mobilise support from President Theodore Roosevelt, especially on behalf of the women and children in the British concentration camps. He also held public lectures all around the country. While visiting Mexico, news reached Muller about the Peace of Vereeniging, making him jobless. Muller took the opportunity to turn his American journey into an expedition. On his return to the Netherlands in 1903 he published a book about it. In the years after the end of the South African War Muller maintained his interest in South Africa and the Afrikaners, both personally and professionally. In 1904 he supported the Steyn family when they were in Europe for the President's recovery of a debilitating illness. Until his death Muller was active for the Algemeen Nederlandsch Verbond and the Nederlandsche Zuid-Afrikaansche Vereeniging.\n\nBetween 1907 and 1909 Muller travelled through Asia, a journey that produced several books and articles after his return, including a two-part report of his travels (\"Azië gespiegeld\"; Asia mirrored). Muller also published a scientific source publication on Cambodia and the earliest Dutch presence in French Indochina. The French government rewarded him for it with a knighthood in the Légion d'Honneur for the latter. The French colony Annam made Muller a knight in the Order of the Dragon for his contributions to the history of Vietnam.\n\nMuller's Asian trip was comprehensive. He visited British India and Ceylon, Burma, Malaysia and the Philippines and French Indochina, travelled extensively through the Dutch East Indies, and returned via Japan, Korea – where he had an audience with the last Korean emperor –, Manchuria, China, and Siberia. Muller's visit to Japan triggered a lively interest in this country and its economic development potential. Back in the Netherlands he presented his views on the country in several speeches, brochures, and articles, mainly under the auspices of the Comité Nederland-Japan (Dutch-Japanese Committee).\n\nIn 1914, at the outbreak of World War I, Muller's career took a new turn. The Dutch government appointed him government commissioner in charge of one of the main Belgian Refugee Camps in the Netherlands. Muller was charged with the transfer of the camp from a makeshift army encampment in Oldebroek to a proper refugee camp with full provisions in Nunspeet. He took to the job with great enthusiasm, but resigned a year later, declaring that he had attained the goals he had set himself on his appointment. Actually the resignation came in a cloud of controversy around his person and policies. At the end of World War I the Dutch prime minister did acknowledge the high quality of Muller's work in setting up the camps and bringing and maintaining order and human dignity under very trying circumstances. Apart from his position as member of the Consular Examinations Commission, this position was the only Dutch government appointment Muller held inside the Netherlands.\n\nFrom the 1890s onwards, Muller had published with great regularity about the importance of a proper Dutch consular service to promote the Dutch mercantile interests around the world. In his articles he forcefully advanced the idea that the consular and diplomatic services should be merged and professionalised. In his publications Muller also strongly propagated a more active role of the Netherlands in international affairs. In this vain, in 1919, he published an article on the history and geography of Spitsbergen (Svalbard) and the necessity for the Dutch government to defend its historic claims on the islands. A year later, the Dutch government became a signatory to the Spitsbergen Treaty.\n\nIn 1919, now already sixty years old, he got the chance to put his opinions on Dutch foreign policy into practice. In that year the Dutch government appointed him Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Romania, a country in the throes of political and economic transformation. The Dutch had had important business interests in the country, especially in petroleum. Muller stayed here until early 1924 when he was appointed envoy to Czechoslovakia. In Prague he was also involved in Dutch business affairs, \"inter alia\" looking after the interests of the Dutch electrotechnical firm Philips.\n\nHe resigned his post in 1932 after being requested to step back by the Dutch minister of Foreign Affairs, who wished to free some senior diplomatic posts for younger diplomats waiting to be appointed envoy. Muller decided not take his pension, allowing him to keep his title of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary until his death.\n\nFrom an early age Muller was interested in Dutch history, especially in the great national achievements of the Dutch during the centuries. During his lifetime Muller translated his interests in several concrete projects.\nIn line with his historical interests he initiated the erection of a statue for the murdered Grand Pensionary of Holland, Johan de Witt (1625–1672). The statue was designed and made by the Dutch sculptor Frederik Engel Jeltsema. The unveiling in The Hague on 12 June 1918 was a national event. The actual unveiling was done by Queen Wilhelmina, with several ministers in attendance. The statue stands close to the place where De Witt and his brother Cornelis were killed by a mob in 1672. On the side of the socle a text is engraved which – in translation – reads: 'Leader and servant of the Republic, designer of it most powerful fleets, defender of the freedom of the seas, caretaker of the State's coffers, mathematician. He was a perfect Dutchman.' Muller had an important hand in the formulation of the text.\n\nMuller funded the erection of a plaque in honour of the Dutch seventeenth-century admiral Maarten Harpertsz. Tromp in the newly built City Hall of his birthplace Rotterdam.\n\nIn the years after 1932 Muller travelled a little around Europe and retired to his house in The Hague. He remained involved in cultural and academic activities, organised his papers, and kept a keen interest in South African affairs. In the last years of his life he was honoured in several ways, among others with an honorary doctorate in law from the University of South Africa, a bust in the hall of the Eeufeesgebou of the University of the Free State, with a copy in the Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde (National Museum of Ethnology) in Leiden, and an honorary diner party by the Royal Geographical Society in London. Without children and never fully reconciled with his family, Muller left almost his complete estate to the for the support of academic research and cultural heritage. Finally his health failed more and more and H.P.N. Muller died in his house in The Hague on 11 August 1941. He was buried in the cemetery of in The Hague in a grand ceremony, with the Dutch flag covering the coffin and the national anthem being played, in defiance of the and as a – somewhat old-fashioned – celebration of Dutch cultural identity. Among the attendants were several former government ministers and high-ranking military officers, university professors, former diplomats, representatives of cultural and scientific organisations, and friends from his South African period and after.\nDuring his lifetime H.P.N. Muller was well respected for his work. He was extensively decorated by almost all the countries he worked for or in, in many cases with the highest distinction. He was made a Knight Grand Cross in military and civilian orders of Portugal, Liberia, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Czechoslovakia and the Netherlands, was commander of the French Legion of Honour, and knight in orders of Liberia, Annam and the Netherlands. Apart from having his bust placed in the University of the Free State, the Bloemfontein municipal authorities named a street after him.\n\nAlthough highly decorated, honoured and well respected for his work, Muller was not an easy person. This shows through in a consistently bad press he received during his lifetime and after, which highlights his eccentricities and his at times volatile character.\n\nMuller was a member of several societies and associations:\n\n\nHe sometimes used these names, with or without 'Dr.' added:\n\n\n\nThe Dr Hendrik Muller Prize for Behavioural and Social Sciences was named after Hendrik Muller. The prize is awarded every other year by the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences to a researcher who has made a valuable contribution to the behavioural and social sciences.\n\nDuring his life, H.P.N. Muller published well over 200 books, articles, columns, and papers. Many of these – especially his newspaper articles – were published anonymously. Many of the (propaganda) articles he wrote about the South African War when he was consul general for the Orange Free State were published secretly, often under another journalist's or newspaper editor's name, to maximise the public relations effect.\n\nThis bibliography only lists Muller's main book publications and some key articles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997650", "title": "Index of waste management articles", "text": "Index of waste management articles\n\nArticles related to waste management include:\nAdvanced Thermal Treatment\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55704290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55704290", "title": "Ingrid C. Kildegaard", "text": "Ingrid C. Kildegaard\n\nIngrid Christensen Kildegaard (died September 2, 1984 in Haines Falls, New York) was an American statistician and market researcher who worked at the Advertising Research Foundation as a vice president and technical director.\n\nKildegaard graduated from Central Michigan University (Michigan State Teachers College) in 1936. She did her graduate studies at the University of Minnesota, completing a master's degree in statistics there in 1950. She joined the Advertising Research Foundation in 1956 and was promoted to Director of Technical Services in 1965. At around that time, she became involved in discussions with the United States Census Bureau over whether they should survey ownership of advanced television sets capable of color and of receiving UHF signals.\nIn 1970 she served as chair of the Subsection on Statistics in Marketing of the American Statistical Association.\nShe retired in 1982.\n\nIn 1967, she was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\nThe Market Research Council added her to their Hall of Fame in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "38148985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38148985", "title": "International Workers and Amateurs in Sports Confederation", "text": "International Workers and Amateurs in Sports Confederation\n\nThe International Labour and Amateur Sports Confederation (French: Confédération Sportive Internationale Travailliste et Amateur, CSIT) is an international multi-sports organization. The organization celebrated its 100 years anniversary in 2013. The core principles of contributing to physical activity and sports have stayed in its action policy: it is a right of man and woman to practice sport by his/her own conditions. The key concept of the CSIT’s sport policy has always been in sport for all. – The policy stems from the historic ideas of the international worker sport movement.\n\nNowadays, the main activities that the CSIT is organizing are the major and small sports events, more precisely Sport for All - games for amateurs and workers, competitive and non-competitive, for young and old, men and women from all over the world. Sports events are considered as festivals of friendship, cultural exchange, events promoting awareness of tolerance, respect, sustainability and fair play in sport environment addressed to unlimited size of participants; all those major and small events welcome the CSIT members, other non-member organizations, cooperation partners, governmental bodies, trade unions and business companies with sports activities for employees and amateurs worldwide.\n\nWithin the world of international sport, the CSIT maintains its support for everyone to benefit from sporting activities regardless of their qualifications, talent, nationality, age, sex and social circumstances.\n\nDuring last two decades the CSIT has grown rapidly up to a global organization with altogether 31 national member organizations. They are in alphabetical order: FAST (Algeria), UNTA (Angola), ASKOE (Austria), AFSTB (Belgium), FROS (Belgium), BWF Sport & Health (Bulgaria), CWCIE (China), PASEK (Cyprus), DAI (Denmark), JOUD (Estonia), KALEV (Estonia), TUL (Finland), FFST (France), FSGT (France), Rad- und Kraftfahrerbund ”Solidarität” Deutchland 1896 e.v. (Germany), AFWSI (Iran), AAI (Ireland), HAPOEL (Israel), ACSI (Italy), AICS (Italy), LTSA (Latvia), ”ZALGIRIS” (Lithuania), INDET (Mexico), NCS (Netherlands), INATEL (Portugal), CSE (Romania), ”Atomsport” (Russia), ZZBSS (Slovenia), SATUS (Switzerland), ONCST (Tunisia) and HIS (Turkey).\n\nIn addition there are two (sub) continental members: one from Americas (Confederacao Pan-Americana de Desporto do Trabalhador COPADET) and the other from Europe (Balkan Association for Workers’ Sport BAWS). Furthermore, in January 2018 there were eight candidate members in process to become regular CSIT members; namely ANASTACAM (Cameron), UCEC (Spain, Catalonia), ICSF (Iraq), WSFI (India, LIBERTAS (Italy), CSEN (Italy), MASA (Mongolia) and FederSwiss – Sport for All (Switzerland).\n\nThe relevance of the CSIT sport policy is growing with importance, especially when commercialization and the lack of facilities and economic resources are reducing sports participation to passive entertainment for the vast majority of people. The CSIT is an organization, which aims at promoting and broadening workers' and amateurs' sport activities and thus developing into a world-wide movement. All activities pursue aspirations for democracy, solidarity and improvement of the quality of life through sport. The movement should encompass all sports federations and hence it would be possible to provide better opportunities for varied physical exercise for all citizens.\n\nAs stated above the CSIT stands for promotion of tolerance, respect, fair play, friendship, intercultural dialogue and integration through sport. A “Zero Tolerance” - Policy towards violence, fanatic behaviour and racism is pursued accurately.\n\nAs listed the fields of the CSIT activities are as follows:\n\nThe achievement of the following aims is the most important task of the CSIT:\n\nThe objectives of the CSIT are conducted in praxis by clearly defined pillars. They are the CSIT World Sports Games, the CSIT Single Championships, the International Tournaments, the International Festivals, the Sport for All-activities, the International Projects and the Health, Recreation and Fitness Activities.\n\n\nThe \"World Sports Games\" are the main highlight and a new Brand of the CSIT. It is a unique major sports event for thousands of workers and amateurs every two years where the incomparable \"Spirit of CSIT\" can be experienced. This experience started in 2008. The CSIT World Sports Games are the successor major sports events of the International Workers' Olympiads.\nhttps://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSIT_World_Sports_Games\n\n15 official CSIT championships and 8 demonstration sport :\n\n\n\n\nhttp://wsg2017.com/en/sport-disciplines/other-championships-new-demonstrative-sports/\n\n"}
{"id": "56880795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56880795", "title": "Josephine Uwineza", "text": "Josephine Uwineza\n\nJosephine \"Fina\" Uwineza is a Rwandan entrepreneur and social activist. In 2018, she plans to open the first microbrewery within Rwanda which will feature a staff composed entirely of local women.\n\nJosephine was born in 1964 to a family with five other siblings. In 1974, her father was assassinated during the 1973 Rwandan coup d'état which led Fina's mother to exile Rwanda with all of her children in tow. The Uwineza family went to a few neighboring countries where other exiled family members had been staying but eventually ended up in Canada. Josephine later returned to Rwanda in 1998 to provide aid to the nation following the Rwandan genocide which led to a large chunk of the population dead and the nation in shambles.\n\nUpon returning to Rwanda with her husband and child, Josephine managed a Chinese restaurant, Flamingo, within the city of Kigali. She managed the restaurant for 13 years before deciding to close it down in 2015 after deciding that she wasn't getting enough satisfaction from the business and wanted to spend more time with her family. Following the closing of Flamingo, Josephine became a member of the Peace Through Business program held by the Institute for Economic Empowerment of Women which targets women in the countries of Rwanda and Afghanistan who are starting their own businesses. Through the Peace Through Business program, Josephine met Nancy Coldham, a consultant who aids in the financial pursuits of women in low-income nations. Josephine had the beginnings of an idea to open a new business within Kigali which Coldham encouraged and even helped instigate by helping Josephine find an outside source for help with this start-up.\n\nColdham found help in the form of Beau's All Natural Brewing Company, a brewing company in Ontario, Canada. Beau's had interest in providing resources and training to someone who wanted to start their own brewery which Josephine could take advantage of. A team of leads from Beau's visited Rwanda in 2016 to assess the situation firsthand which ultimately lead to agreeing to aid Josephine with her start-up. Following the visit from Beau's, Josephine and her newfound friends in Beau's launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise funding for the brewery, citing the importance of a brewery within Rwanda as well as the business plan for the brewery to be owned and operate entirely by women. The Kickstarter campaign raised over CAD $95,000 with over 1,000 backers.\n\nJosephine's brewery, planned to open in 2018, will feature a staff composed entirely of women from areas surrounding Kigali. The brewery will make use of ingredients that are sourced mostly from Rwanda. The main ingredients for the majority of the brews that will be produced include banana and sorghum which are popular ingredients to use within African brews. Josephine hopes that the implementation of Rwanda's first microbrewery will be a positive step for the country as a whole since Rwanda enjoys the consumption of beer and being able to have a locally produced microbrew will be a source of unifying strength for the nation.\n"}
{"id": "5457486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5457486", "title": "Jukka Hienonen", "text": "Jukka Hienonen\n\nJukka Antero Hienonen (born August 9, 1961) is a Finnish businessman. He has resigned from the position of President & CEO at Finnair Plc August 7, 2009 (effective Jan 31st, 2010). His previous positions include Vice President at Stockmann. Hienonen lives in the city of Kauniainen with his wife and two daughters. He is fluent in Finnish, English, Swedish and Russian.\n"}
{"id": "36032198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36032198", "title": "Justin McAuliffe", "text": "Justin McAuliffe\n\nJustin Hawley McAuliffe (born October 7, 1987) is an American entrepreneur and philanthropist. He is the grandson of Barron Hilton and the great-grandson of Conrad Hilton, founder of Hilton Hotels. He is the founder and CEO of Acceleron Digital, a digital marketing agency.\n\nMcAuliffe was born in New York City. He was raised in Greenwich, Connecticut and is a graduate of Brunswick School. He is an alumnus of the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration.\nMcAuliffe is the founder and CEO of Acceleron Digital, a digital marketing agency focusing on web development and online promotions. Acceleron is also a start-up factory that develops and launches internal businesses.\nHe is an entrepreneur, having worked on several start-ups in the past. He worked on the Ready, Set, Travel concept, an airport security-friendly toiletry kit for travelers.\n"}
{"id": "18094953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18094953", "title": "Kao Ching-yuen", "text": "Kao Ching-yuen\n\nKao Ching-yuen (; 24 May 1929 – March 2016, aged 86) was a Taiwanese businessman. Kao was born to a poor family in Gakkō Village, Hokumon District, Tainan Prefecture, Japanese-era Taiwan (modern-day Xuejia, Tainan). Kao began working upon graduating from elementary school. He got into Taiwan Spinning (台南紡織), a textile processing company in 1954, and became a manager later. Kao left Taiwan Spinning in 1966.\n\nHe established the Uni-President Corporation in 1967 and served as company chairman until 2013.\n\nIn 2003 he was awarded a Management Medal by the Chinese Management Association. Kao's death was confirmed by Uni-President on 1 April 2016, and a funeral was held the same day.\n"}
{"id": "25058708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25058708", "title": "Leonardo Maugeri", "text": "Leonardo Maugeri\n\nLeonardo Maugeri (10 April 1964 – 10 July 2017) was an Italian oil and gas expert, who was a top manager at Eni from 1994 to 2011. At the time of his death, he was Chairman & CEO of the U.S. Investment firm Romulus Asset Management LLC and a Senior Associate at the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.\nMaugeri sat on the Energy Advisory Board of Accenture. He previously sat on the boards of Saipem, and Polimeri Europa.\nMaugeri was a Visiting Scholar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), as well as a member of the Institute’s Energy Advisory Board. He also served as an International Counselor of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS – Washington, DC).\n\nMaugeri became \"Eni\"’s youngest director in 2000, when at 36 he was named Director of Strategy and Development (2000-2010). In 2010 Maugeri was named Executive Chairman of Polimeri Europa (formerly known as Enimont and currently renamed Versalis), the company managing \"Eni\"’s petrochemical activities (2010-2011).\nThe appointment of Maugeri as \"Eni\"’s head of strategy coincided with the development of aggressive plans for growth that resulted in the period of greatest development for the company: from 2000 to 2005 \"Eni\" increased its hydrocarbons production by 50 per cent while corporate profits reached their highest level in history.\n\nIn 2007 Maugeri launched a new strategy for renewable energy. He engineered the relaunch of the historic Istituto Donegani (a research center), with a new focus on renewable energy and a strategic alliance between Eni and MIT - concluded by Maugeri with the current U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz. During his chairmanship of Polimeri Europa Maugeri conceived and engineered (in association with Novamont) the largest green chemistry project in the world – the industrial reconversion of the Porto Torres site. Whereas Eni’s petrochemical activities had been operating at a loss for several decades (€630 mln and € 513 in 2008 and 2009 respectively), Maugeri’s strategy of radical discontinuity allowed it to obtain a modest but significant positive cash flow from operating activities (€ 25 mln in 2011, with losses cut to € 71 mln).\n\nMaugeri’s views and predictions have been expressed in a series of articles for several major international newspapers and magazines – including \"The New York Times\", \"International Herald Tribune\" (currently \"International New York Times\"), \"Foreign Affairs\", \"Newsweek\", \"Science\", \"Scientific American\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Forbes\", and \"The National Interest\". In particular, Maugeri is one of the leading supporters of the view according to which the world does not run the risk of running out of oil (See: “Not in Oil’s Name” – \"Foreign Affairs\", July–August 2003 – and “Oil, Never Cry Wolf: Why the Petroleum Age is Far from Over” – \"Science\", 21–27 May 2004), and for this reason he has been attacked on many occasions by proponents of the “peak oil” thesis .\n\nIn his book \"The Age of Oil: the Mythology, History, and Future of the World’s Most Controversial Resource\" (Praeger, 2006) Maugeri predicted an imminent collapse of oil prices, which occurred in the second half of 2008. In the same book he predicted the development of unconventional oil and gas resources thanks to the advent of new technologies – including hydraulic fracturing. In \"Beyond the Age of Oil: The Myths, Realities, and Future of Fossil Fuels and Their Alternatives\" (Praeger, 2010) Maugeri argues that by 2020 a technological breakthrough will shake the solar industry and permanently alter the energy landscape.\n\nTwo essays published by Maugeri during his stay at Harvard have sparked a heated debate at the international level. In these essays, Maugeri argues that the incessant growth of global oil production capacity is generally underestimated, and this – combined with modest growth in oil demand – could lead to an oil price collapse in the course of this decade. The second of these studies – “The Shale Oil Boom: A U.S. Phenomenon” (2013), based on an unprecedented analysis of 4,000 shale oil wells, concludes that the United States could become the world’s biggest oil producer by 2017. At the same time, however, the study indicates that the shale oil and gas revolution will not be replicable in the rest of the world – let alone in Europe – due to the high drilling intensity required.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5720552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5720552", "title": "LoopCo", "text": "LoopCo\n\nLoopCo is an economic model created in the mid-1990s as a proposal to the Federal Communications Commission and the US Congress for the healthy development of competition in the local and long distance industries in the US. While there was widespread support among competitors in the industry, it was not implemented. Instead the Telecom Act of 1996 was implemented in a form that resulted in the reduction of telecommunications competition in the local loop. The original proposal was designed and named by Roy Morris, an adjunct professor at Capitol College, and with US ONE Communications, one of the early entrants in the local telephone business, which also was one of the first to exit that business. The fundamental economic principles were developed based on earlier research and publications of Jerry Duvall, a prominent economist at the Federal Communications Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "14598196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14598196", "title": "Mathematics of Operations Research", "text": "Mathematics of Operations Research\n\nMathematics of Operations Research is a peer-reviewed scientific journal first published in February 1976. It focuses on areas of mathematics relevant to the field of operations research such as continuous optimization, discrete optimization, game theory, machine learning, simulation methodology, and stochastic models. The journal is published quarterly by INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences), which also publishes other journals including \"Operations Research\" and \"Management Science\". \"Mathematics of Operations Research\" is indexed by the \"Journal Citation Reports\". In 2014, it moved to \"Issues in Advance\", which publishes the articles online as they become available. The H-index of the journal is 50.\n\nThe first issue of \"Mathematics of Operations Research\" was published in February 1976. The founding editor was then-professor at Stanford University, Arthur F. Veinott Jr. He then served as editor-in-chief until 1980, when the position was taken over by Stephen M. Robinson, who held the position until 1986. Erhan Cinlar served from 1987 to 1992, and was followed by Jan Karel Lenstra (1993-1998). Next was Gérard Cornuéjols (1999-2003) and Nimrod Megiddo (2004-2009). Finally came Uri Rothblum (2009-2012) and the current editor-in-chief Jim Dai (2012–present).\n\nThe journal's three initial areas were game theory, stochastic systems, and mathematical programming, edited by Robert Aumann, Donald Iglehart, and R. Tyrrell Rockafellar, respectively. Currently, the journal has four areas: continuous optimization, discrete optimization, stochastic models, and game theory. They are edited by Marc Teboulle, Jens Vygen, Adam Shwartz, and Bernhard von Stengel, respectively.\n\n\"Mathematics of Operations Research\" has hosted articles written by four Nobel Prize-winning authors: Robert Aumann (Economics, 2005), Roger B. Myerson (Economics, 2007), Alvin E. Roth (Economics, 2012), and Lloyd S. Shapley (Economics 2012).\n\nThe following papers have been cited most frequently:\n\n1. Roger B. Myerson, “Optimal Auction Design”, Mathematics of Operations Research 1981, vol 6:1, 58-73\n\n2. A. Ben-Tal and Arkadi Nemirovski, “Robust Convex Optimization”, Mathematics of Operations Research 1998, vol 23:4, 769-805\n\n3. M. R. Garey, D. S. Johnson, and Ravi Sethi, “The Complexity of Flowshop and Jobshop Scheduling”, Mathematics of Operations Research 1976, vol 1:2, 117-129\n"}
{"id": "42994980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42994980", "title": "Moulay Driss Alaoui", "text": "Moulay Driss Alaoui\n\n\"Prince Moulay\" Idriss El Alaoui (born c. 1963) is an Alaouite dynasty prince. In addition to being a special advisor to king Mohammed VI, he is businessman. He live in Meknes, Morocco.\n\nHe is the son of Prince \"Moulay\" Hassan ben Driss, KCVO, and his wife Princess \"Lalla\" Amina bint \"Moulay\" Yusef. He has a son named \"Moulay\" Youssef El Alaoui.\n\nMost of his business activities are in real-estate and agriculture. He is a Moroccan businessman who is worth $3,4 billion as of October 2017, making him one of the 5 richest man in his country.\n\nEntered the Moroccan Diplomatic Service and served as Counsellor at Madrid, and Algiers, Ambassador to Gabon and to Libya without moving anytime his country. He is also a Special Adviser to King Mohammed VI.\n\n"}
{"id": "35591871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35591871", "title": "Networks in marketing", "text": "Networks in marketing\n\nNetworks are crucial parts of any action taken in a marketplace. Peter Drucker even described the future economy as one of a society of networks. Companies embedded in such networks stand to gain a lot. There are a number of different network models, which have distinct relevance to customers, and marketing initiatives. A network in marketing can be formed either strategically (e.g. Business networking) or completely randomly (e.g. Referral economy). Marketing channels and business networks have been referred to, by Achrol & Kotler as:\n\n“Interdependent systems of organizations and relations that are involved in carrying out all of the production and marketing activities involved in creating and delivering value in the form of products and services to intermediate and final customers.”\n\nAchrol & Kotler stated that networks are not accepting of traditional mechanisms, such as authority and control. Suggesting that organizational hierarchy, power and contracts are now exchanged for instruments of relational control. Businesses such as Ford, Procter & Gamble and General Electric have evolved in much the same. It wasn’t all to long ago that they were organized as classic hierarchies. Displaying central control, unified purpose, and complex management structure of many tiers.\n\nBusiness and marketing networks differ in the amount of connectivity between agents. Some markets, which are more fragmented, have less connectivity between agents than others. On top of this, the level of complexity differs between various networks, some may seem ordered and rather linear, whereas other random and chaotic. As a network develops, agents or entities form relationships with others, which increases the efficiency of operations. Although, this inevitably adds complexity to otherwise simple networks, and makes them more prone to chaos.\n\nA network is a web of interrelated lines, passages, or edges, intersecting at a certain points, nodes, vertices, or places, which can be interlinked with other networks and contain sub networks . Networks have been linked to branches of mathematics, electronics, biology, and biosocial fields. Studies of inter-organization relations, and its networks, can be traced to early societies.\n\nIn 1736, Leonhard Euler created graph theory. Graph theory paved the way for network models such as Barabási-Albert’s scale-free networks, chance networks such as Paul Erdös and Alfréd Rényi, Erdős–Rényi model, which applies to random graph theory, and Watts & Strogatz Small-world network, all of which can be adapted to be representative of strategies and or relationships in the marketplace.\n\nWith respect to marketing, much of the creation of theories around systems, structure, and the management of business networks, can arguably be attributed to early economists such as John Common, Ronald Coase, and Joseph Schumpter. John Commons, in 1934, took ideas from the fields of law, economics, and psychology, and focused on transactions as a rudimentary unit of analysis. Commons showed how united economic entities arise and grow to deal with inherent conflicts of interest among agents and how united organizations are in control of individual actions in that it both restricts and facilitates it. Joseph Schumpter, in 1939, focused on the processes underlying industrial organizations and how they have transformed. He showed how the battle for survival among various types of businesses and networks, vying to serve the needs of society, fashioned the change of the industrial sector. Ronald Coase, in 1937, introduced the concept of transaction cost. His research signified the development of ideas about exchange and more specifically the cost of securing agreements as well as coordinating, controlling and implementing them. These three economists, Wilkinson stated, have been especially influential in the development of theories surrounding networks in marketing.\n\nThere are a number of notable historic studies, pieces of literature marketing networks. Theodore Macklin, in 1921, published a book called ‘Efficient marketing for agriculture’. He emphasized the importance of maintaining relationships between farmers and local middlemen, and between various levels of middlemen in bringing about successful and efficient marketing. Wilkinson stated that his study can be seen as a precursor for research on marketing and economic evolution and the way the development of marketing organizations linked local markets to larger scale markets that enabling the steps of economic specialize. Another key study in the field could be that by Ralph Breyer, in 1924. Breyer introduced the thought of marketing flows, depicting marketing frameworks in terms of the flow of electric current through wires, when connections are made. Distinguishing organization unit channels, enterprise channels, business type channels, and channel groups with respect to the number of business actors involved. In 1940’s, there were signs that change was in order. Marketers by the names of Wroe Alderson, and Reavis Cox wrote an article in 1948, proposing a number of ways that marketing theory could be built upon. Alderson’s research depicted a divide in the development of marketing thought and more specifically the structure and operations of channel networks and marketing institutions. They sought to understand the nature of work and the functional requirements of a marketing system and the way that marketing organizations come about to carry out this work.\n\nThese previously mentioned studies and pieces of literature demonstrate the creation of various ideas and thought surrounding networks in marketing. As the years have passed these concepts have develop and evolved, as will be shown.\n\nStudies around this time had a focus on the economic structure of distribution channels, looking at it from more of a macro view. A significant study was that by Cox, Goodman, and Fichandler, which built upon previous research conducted by Stewart, Dewhurst and Field (1939) and examined the distribution in a high level economy. Bert McCammon, in 1963, enriched the field further. He drew from previous literature by Schumpter and Coase, bringing together research and ideas from a number of behavioural sciences exploring the processes of change occurring in channel systems.\n\nOther developments made in the 1960s were a number of models of channel systems. These models were created to study the many interactions taking place and how they affected performance. Wilkinson cited Forrester’s (1961) models of industrial dynamics and Balderston and Hoggat (1962) models of market processes as fundamental frameworks for following logistic models developed by Bowersox (1972) and his colleagues.\n\nResearch around this time looked more at the behavioral dimensions of channels, somewhat the result of Wroe Alderson’s earlier writings. The first attempts were made to improve the typical conceptual models of inter-firm relations towards the tail end of the 1970s. Major developments were undertaken by researchers such as Robicheaux. Also the first marketing channels textbook was created Malled in 1976. Research in this decade was very limited in that studies were considered unsuccessful if conflict and power were not present. Leading researchers to focus on the car industry and franchisor-franchisee relations were conflict and power are more likely.\n\nAs the 1980s dawned so too did another era of research into networks and its behavioral dimensions. A significant study by Phillips, in 1981, challenged the problem of various informants in inter-firm relations research. Phillips suggested that the perceptions of a relationship differed across various informants in an organization. Putting into question the validity of many studies carried out in the years prior. It also showed that inter-organization relations involve personal as well as business relations and interactions between many people in a company.\n\nResearchers also started to explore additional facets of inter-organization relations, combining them with more extensive models of relationships (e.g. Anderson and Narus). As well as this work by Oliver Williamsons in 1975 on transaction cost and the nature and price of inter-firm governance, sparked interest again on economic theories.\n\nLiterature around the 1990s brought together a number of research traditions. This is when various theories such as relationship marketing in industrial and consumer market appeared. The connection between services marketing to the analysis of relations and networks emerged. There was also more of a focus on cooperation as opposed to competing relations, which caused in an eruption of interest in the region of relationships and networks. Furthermore, Researchers began directing more effort to network dimensions, as opposed to isolated dyadic relationship. Moreover, new technology has been used in the study of business networks, allowing for specific issues to be addressed.\n\nThe developments made in the last several decades, demonstrate the evolution of pre-existing concepts and models in relation to networks in marketing, first proposed in the 1950s and 60’s. Wilkinson stated that what is needed now is the application of modeling techniques to portray networks in marketing, in order to strengthen current theories with empirical evidence.\n\nVarious studies have used a number of methods to study business networks. One such study conducted by Aino Halinen, & Jan-Åke Törnroos, looked at how networks are constructed and how they function in the modern day world. Giving insight into use of case studies as a method of measurement. Another key study, conducted by Jun, Kim, Kim, & Choi, modeled consumer referrals through use of a small world network. Demonstrating that Watts & Strogatz’s Small world network model can be adapted to interpret the initial linear relationship between firms, and consumers, and its subsequent development exhibiting small world properties. Alternatively a study by Lorenzo Bizzi & Ann Langley (2012) considered the key choices, with regard to methodology, met by researchers, when looking at network dynamics.\n\nWork by Ravi Achrol & Philip Kotler identified several marketing network models.\n\nThe first model proposed was that of a layered network. A layered network is a business which comprises “an operational layer of cross-functional teams on the one hand and a knowledge creating layer of functional silos on the other hand, connected internally and externally through extensive data bank knowledge and transparent information flows”. An example of this has been implemented by sharp electronics.\n\nThe second model proposed is that of internal marketing networks. An internal marketing network is a “firm organized into internal enterprise units that operate as semiautonomous profit centers buying from, selling to, or investing in other internal or external units as best serves their needs on market determined terms of trade but subject to firm policy”. AC-Rochester is a definitive example of an internal marketing network. It is one of eight component manufacturing divisions of General Motors, structured as an internal market. It markets its products to Mitsubishi in Japan, Daewoo in Korea and Opel in Europe. Internal marketing networks have many similar properties to those of small worked networks.\n\nA vertical network comprises a groups of resource firms specializing in the various product, technologies, or services that constitute the inputs of particular industry, organized around a focal company that focusing on monitoring and managing the critical contingencies faced by the network participants in that market.\n\nVertical network in marketing often represent monopolies. These would include companies such as Transpower, Kiwi rail, and the like. These networks display preferential attachment, similar that of Barabasi-Albert Model.\n\nWatt’s and Strogatz’s used graph theory to create three models depicting varying amounts connectedness, these were named Small world network. A small world network Is a graph in which most nodes aren’t connected to one another but as connections are made other nodes can be reached through only a couple of intermediaries. In terms of marketing small world networks have been used to model this such as consumer referrals (e.g. Jun, Kim, Kim, & Choi).\n\nIf we are to think of this in terms of a business relationship, it is not hard to see where this model becomes applicable. Consider Jun, Kim, Kim, & Choi’s example of consumer referrals. Each node represents a consumer, and the connections represent the relationship one consumer has with another. As more incentive is given for referring a product the probability of increasing connections increases. What starts as a regular network, quickly becomes random and complex. This same thing could apply a network of firms, middlemen and consumers. With every step in the chain, value is added to the product, and the cost increases. This increases the incentive for middleman, and or consumer to form other connections to get better deals. As deals and relationships are forged the network becomes more and more complex and integrated, creating disorder.\n\n‘Hubs’ or ‘connectors’ are important aspects to analyze when examining any system or network and marketing is no exception to this.\nA hub in a network is a consequence of a Power Law, whereby a small number of nodes or actors in a network have a disproportionately large number of links to other nodes in the network. A Power Law in a market system for instance could be explained in that there are many actors who have a very limited number of business contacts in their 'rolodex', but there are a small few, say 10% of those in the network, who have a huge number of network contacts in their 'rolodex' and can easily facilitate communication between two separated actors. The idea that in a network the majority of nodes will have a couple of links which can allow communication through many pathways, whereas hubs have a large number of links and ensure that a network has full contact and eases the complexity of this.\nOne of the first empirical observations of hubs or connectors in social sciences experimentation came about in Stanley Milgram’s Small world experiments, the first of which taking place in 1967. Of the 64 letters which made it through to the stated destination, 60% of those went through the same four people, and in a further experiment of a similar nature when 24 letters got through, 16 of those went through the same last person as a connection.\nHubs are distinctive components of network systems and through understanding them a better understanding of network function and behavior can be attained. Barabási states that hubs dominate all networks through the large number of links they possess, that the links hubs provide in areas of high clustering and also between areas of high clustering demonstrate their connective qualities. The presence of hubs in a market can be an important aspect of new product adoption and diffusion rates, by utilizing hubs when bringing a product to market producers can generate more ‘buzz’ and reach a greater target audience with improved efficiency through the use of hubs and their large number of connections across a network. In terms of hubs acting as facilitators of diffusion, they can take many forms. One example of this is a celebrity endorsement in a marketing campaign for a product, the celebrity acts as the hub by using their fame and the perceived links that consumers have with their favorite celebrities to distribute information about the product which is given to them by the producer.\nThe links involved with hubs exhibit small world properties of a number of short paths between actors which are clustered due to similarities. However, while the interconnectedness which hubs can bring into a network is a great strength it can also be their greatest weakness in that, if functioning correctly hubs keep everyone in touch through a system, but remove a hub and the clusters become segregated and communication and information flow become strained.\n\nThe concepts of weak and strong ties in a marketing and social sciences context relates to the intensity of the relationships between members of a network. The strength of a tie according to Professor Mark Granovetter can be analyzed by looking at a combination of; the amount of time, the emotional intensity, the intimacy and mutual confiding, and the reciprocal services between those which the tie exists.\nA strong tie relationship obviously exhibits high levels of the afore mentioned attributes and in a relationship between two parties which is a strong tie there is assumed to be mutual choice for both parties involvement in the relationship. Strong ties are often found in highly dense groups of nodes who share many similarities and connections within the groups. Thus removing one or two strong ties in a group does not affect the information distribution through a group due to the intense interlinking present. \nWeak ties refer to the relationships that are present between individuals which are not actively sought out or maintained. Where strong ties require high levels of commitment and other factors a weak tie only needs a small amount of connection to function effectively and does not require mutual agreement to be present. Nor do they require similar interests across nodes in a network, on the contrary weak links occur due to different interests but are created through often minimal factors. They link groups or clusters together despite differences in the clusters and enable the flow of information or diffusion of ideas to take place across an entire network rather it remaining in one cluster. \nThe idea that removing strong ties from a network will not have as big of an effect as removing a weak one. The concept of bridges is central to this idea. A bridge is a connection which acts as the only way for information to travel between two nodes in a network, there are no other connections available to get said information across. Due to the nature of bridges strong ties are not able to be bridges due to the interconnected nature of strong ties in a community and the presence of alternate connections to facilitate lateral diffusion. Conversely weak ties can be bridges because they are often the only links between groups or nodes, however it is important to note that not all weak links are bridges there may be other connections, but all bridges are weak ties, thus transmission probabilities rely heavily on them. \nAn example of how weak ties can be effective at reaching a larger audience than strong ties is shown by Rapoport and Horvath’s 1961 study of a high school in Michigan. 857 students were asked to rank their eight top friends from 1(best friend) to 8(associate). The results of the survey showed that those rated one or two were a small minority of the students, where those who were seen as more associates canvassed a vast majority of the sample. In this example the strong links were those rated as best friends where the weak links who had the ability for far greater diffusion of information were those considered associates. \nThrough utilizing weak links available in the market a firm operating in one system or niche perhaps would potentially be able expand or tap into different markets through utilizing a weak link and diversify. Marketers also need to be aware that just because their advertisements are targeted specifically at a segment where they believe it will go down well or be acceptable such an adult advertisement on a billboard in a ‘suitable location’ or a giveaway on a beer bottle, due to weak links it has potential to be able to affect those outside the target audience or group who would find it appropriate.\n\nComplexity in networks is tied to the notion of elements of the system or networks have relationships amongst themselves which from relationships they may have with other elements outside their group. A complex system is a system composed of interconnected parts that as a whole exhibit one or more properties which can be obvious when viewing the system as a whole, however when viewing the individual components of the system their potential to produce is not visible (or obvious).\nA complex system is a highly structured system, which shows structure with a number of variations. It is very sensitive to initial conditions and small alterations to these can result in dramatically different outcomes as chaos theory suggests, there are a number of pathways and evolutions which the 'butterfly’s wings' are able to affect. A complex system is one that by design or function or both is difficult to understand and verify. There are multiple simultaneous interactions by actors and components which lead to an overall output of a system.\nIt is important in a marketing environment to recognize that there are many levels of complex systems at play and that targeting individual parts of production, advertising or other aspects will not often result in proportional outputs. On this note it is also important to recognize the nesting potential in a market complex system, where a market is made up of different firms which are complex systems themselves, which in turn are made up of people who also exhibit complex system functionalities. The market must be viewed as a whole to understand the sum of the parts and analyze emergent behaviors. The many aspects of complex systems mean that they are unpredictable and involve aspects of chaos and non-linearity and this in turn leads to the rise in small-world phenomena.\n\nChaos Theory studies the behavior of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions. Chaos Theory applied to marketing offers an alternative explanation for the complex, apparently disorderly patterns of behavior in marketing systems over time which are observed in phenomena such as sales, inventories, brand shares and prices. Marketing systems are identified as being nonlinear in nature because they fail to satisfy the superposition principle (outputs are not directly proportional to inputs). Even though the rules governing behavior in marketing systems are known, it is impossible to make accurate long-term predictions of system behavior due to the high sensitivity of initial conditions. This happens even though marketing systems are fully deterministic. Traditional explanations of marketing phenomena typically rely on assumed patterns of external shocks, random noise or inherently stochastic processes to account for the complex dynamics within marketing systems.\n\nChaos Theory explains at least a component of disorderly market behavior in terms of deterministic feedback mechanisms reflected in the rules governing system members’ behavior and interactions. This feedback represents non-linearity and occurs in two forms: (1) the reinforcing growth effect of positive feedback; and (2) the damping effect of negative feedback. Chaos theory also offers alternative explanations for the existence of various types of marketing institutions as 'disequilibrium mechanisms' designed to buffer or reduce the effects of complex dynamics. These include inventory-holding intermediaries, financial intermediaries, insurance agencies, and ordering systems. Finally, Chaos Theory can explain and predict structural change and evolution in marketing systems.\n\nThe application of chaos theory to marketing systems can lead to new ways of coping with or avoiding these chaotic patterns of behavior, to the extent the rules governing behavior are amenable to control by firms and/or policymakers.\n\nChaos is present in several popular marketing models of product diffusion, market or brand share and market evolution. The transition from order to chaos can be demonstrated in this simple nonlinear equation, representing market evolution, under plausible assumptions of interdependence of actions and/or variables:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe rate of growth, formula_2, will be exponential as entry far exceeds exit. Eventually, the number of firms in the industry (formula_3) approaches the capacity (formula_4) and growth slows. Growth becomes negative should overcrowding occur, which may be reflected by, for example, price competition and competitive promotional activities. Eventually this competition will drive profit below threshold levels. The value formula_5 determines the degree of non-linearity present in the model and is the critical determinant of the pattern of market evolution. Stable equilibrium occurs at values of less than 2, periodic and bifurcation patterns begin at values of formula_5 exceeding 2 and chaos occurs at values of formula_5 greater than 2.57.\n"}
{"id": "4863371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4863371", "title": "Octave Chanute Award", "text": "Octave Chanute Award\n\nThe Octave Chanute Award was created in early 1902 by the Western Society of Engineers for papers of merit on engineering innovations. It is still awarded as of 2011. \nThe American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Inc. (AIAA) introduced the \"Chanute Flight Award\" in 1939; it was presented for an outstanding contribution made by a pilot or test personnel to the advancement of the art, science, and technology of aeronautics. This award was discontinued in 2005. It was reactivated in 2010 as the \"Chanute Flight Test Award\" to recognize significant lifetime achievements in the advancement of the art, science, and technology of flight test engineering. \n\nOctave Chanute, 1832–1910, was born in France and became a naturalized American. He was a self-taught engineer. He designed the first railroad bridge over the Missouri River and the Union Stock Yards in Chicago (IL) as well as those in Kansas City (MO). Octave Chanute was a pioneer aeronautical engineer and experimenter, and was a friend and adviser to the Wright Brothers.\n\nChanute waged a long campaign to encourage the invention of the airplane. He collected information from every possible source and gave it to anyone who asked. He published a compendium of aviation information in 1894. In 1896 he commissioned several aircraft to be built. The \"Katydid\" had multiple wings that could be attached variously about the fuselage for ease of experimentation. Chanute's biplane glider (1896) with \"two arched wings held rigidly together by vertical struts and diagonal wire bracing\" (the principle of the Pratt truss used in the railroad bridges which Chanute constructed) served as a prototype design for subsequent airplanes.\n\nHe is universally recognized as a prominent engineer, experimenter, writer and communicator, which is why these two award were given his name.\n\nThe former Chanute AFB in Illinois was named in honor of him, and so was the town of Chanute, KS\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8854982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8854982", "title": "Oleg Mitvol", "text": "Oleg Mitvol\n\nOleg Lvovich Mitvol () (born October 3, 1966) is a Russian environmentalist, businessman and government official, known for his activity in the chair of environmental protection department.\n\nIn 1997 - 2003 Mitvol was the chairman of the JSC newspaper Novye Izvestiya.\n\nAs media tycoon Boris Berezovsky, owner of the newspaper, had fled from Russia to London, Mitvol obtained a 76% share in the newspaper from him, but Berezovsky effectively continued to support the newspaper financially. However, on February 20, 2003, Oleg Mitvol, citing a decision of a meeting of the board, kept secret from the journalists despite their 24% share, accused Director General of Novye Izvestiya Igor Golembiovsky of misappropriation of funds and fired him. The publication was suspended.\n\nBerezovsky claimed that Mitvol's move was politically motivated, as the newspaper was opposed to President Vladimir Putin and on that very day had published an article by Vladimir Pribylovsky about the allegedly emerging cult of Putin's personality.\n\nAccording to examination performed by Dissernet, both doctoral and higher doctoral theses of Mitvol contain gross plagiarism from several doctoral and higher doctoral theses.\n\nSince April 2004 he has been Deputy Head of the Russian Federal Service for the Oversight of Natural Resources. He soon became attracting media attention with environmental crimes investigations.\n\nOne of the famous campaigns by Mitvol was \"Dacha war\", against elite cottage settlements that were illegally built in the gallery forest area on Istra River shores. The \"Piatnitsa\" cottage settlement was ordered to be deconstructed. It was followed by protests of cottage owners.\n\nAnother his activity was about Sakhalin environment and its possible damage by oil-gathering companies. In September 2006, he threatened to revoke environmental authorisation for Royal Dutch Shell's Sakhalin II oil and gas production project. He brought in London lawyer Mark Stephens to take proceedings to preserve the Russian Far East.\n\nOn December 14, 2006, Sergei Sai, Head of the Service, tried - and failed - to fire Mitvol from this position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "536576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536576", "title": "Pacific Bell", "text": "Pacific Bell\n\nThe Pacific Bell Telephone Company (Pacific Bell) is a telephone company that provides telephone service in California. The company is owned by AT&T Inc. through AT&T Teleholdings. The company has been known by a number of names during which its service area has changed. The formal name of the company from the 1910s through the 1984 Bell System divestiture was The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company. As of 2002, the name “Pacific Bell” is no longer used in marketing, Pacific Bell is still the holder of record for the infrastructure of cables and fiber through much of California.\n\nThe Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company managed the Bell System's telephone operations in California. It grew by acquiring smaller telephone companies along the Pacific coast. It built and occupied San Francisco's Pacific Telephone Building on New Montgomery Street which has been described as a \"monument to western progress and foresight\".\n\nDuring the San Francisco graft trials, the company was implicated in paying bribes to obtain an operations franchise in San Francisco. Theodore Halsey, a confidential political agent for the Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company, paid attorney Abe Ruef a retainer of $1,250 a month for \"advice\" on municipal issues. Ruef was the political boss behind S.F. Mayor Eugene Schmitz. In 1906, San Francisco was one of the most promising places for investment in all of the United States. Many companies were vying for a piece of the money to be made. The city's supervisors had run on a platform that included the city acquiring its own telephone system which both Home Telephone Company and Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company wanted to prevent. The Home Telephone Company, financed by investors from Southern California and Ohio, was trying to wrest the telephone franchise held exclusively by Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company in Northern California.\n\nAfter the massive earthquake of 1906, the Home Telephone Company contributed $75,000 to a relief fund for the city, but asked that it be held until their franchise was approved. It was later revealed that the city's supervisors had received payoffs through Ruef from both the Home Telephone Company and Pacific States Telephone Co. Home Telephone paid 10 supervisors $3,500 each and seven supervisors $6,000 each (about $ to $ in 2018). Pacific States Telephone Co. paid 10 supervisors $5,000 each ($ today). After the graft prosecutions, E.F. Pillsbury, General Counsel for the telephone company, revealed that he had never heard of Ruef's employment, and would have objected to Ruef receiving compensation greater than his own $1,000 per month.\n\nDuring the first part of the 20th century, Pacific Telephone & Telegraph, along with the rest of the Bell System, initially resisted automating its services, on the premise that their people could provide better service than machines. When it acquired competing providers, if the company provided automatic dial service, Bell removed the automatic equipment and replaced it with manual telephones and manual operator switchboards. However, the company soon realized its best manual systems were unable to keep up with the growing demand for telephone service. In the early 1920s, following the 1921 installation of the nation's first large panel switch in Omaha, the Bell operating companies began to install automated switching equipment.\n\nLos Angeles and San Francisco employed different approaches for adopting new automatic switching technology. The Los Angeles Telephone Co. had merged with the Sunset Telephone Co. of northern California in 1883. Sunset was subsequently acquired by Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. in 1906. Following the purchase by PT&T, the southern California company remained a separate operation and used the Sunset name.\n\nThe Los Angeles area was also served by a competitor, The Home Telephone Co., which began offering automatic (dial) service in 1902. The Sunset Telephone Co. subscribers were able to make local and long distance calls via the Bell System, but Home Telephone Co. customers could make only local calls to other Home customers. To reach both exchanges, businesses were required to pay for a line from each company. In 1916, under pressure from local politicians and subscribers, Sunset Telephone Co. agreed to acquire the Home Company's operations. The new entity was called The Southern California Telephone Co. The two company's operations were fully integrated in 1918.\n\nAt the time of the 1918 merger, Home had 60,000 customers served from 16 dial offices. Sunset had 68,000 subscribers served from nine manual offices. Home's operations were sizable and the public felt Home provided better service than Sunset, so Pacific Telephone didn't convert the dial offices to manual as it had in the past. Instead, they took the highly unusual step of adding a dial and trunk lines to every manual switchboard position. In this way, former Sunset customers could reach the former Home subscribers via their central office operator.\n\nThe last Los Angeles manual exchange was THornwall 6, in Burbank, which operated until the late 1950s. The last manual office in southern California was in Avalon, on Catalina Island, dating from a radiotelephone service installed in the early 1920s. Pacific Telephone later laid two submarine cables to link the island to the mainland. Avalon was converted to dial in 1978, using switching equipment 23 miles away in the San Pedro central office.\n\nSan Francisco continued to install manual offices throughout the 1920s. When PT&T took over the operations of its San Francisco and Oakland competitor, Home Telephone Co., in the early 1920s, their customers were switched from Home's dial service to Pacific Telephone manual exchanges. A 1927 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. publication proudly describes the company's newest manual offices, without a word of plans to introduce dial service. San Francisco's first dial office, ORdway, opened on 23 March 1929. The first suburban step-by-step (electromechanical stepping switch) office opened in Palo Alto in 1929.\n\nTelephone service conversion from manual to dial systems was slowed by equipment shortages during World War II. San Jose had been planned for conversion before the war, but remained on manual service until 1949. \n\nIn preparation for operator direct distance dialing, the precursor to customer DDD, cities throughout the country converted telephone numbers to a standardized 2L-5N format, e.g. EXchange 1-2345. San Francisco completed its conversion in December 1947. In July 1948, Pacific Telephone converted most of the cities on the San Francisco Peninsula. The company announcement, “most Peninsula cities now have exchange names” confirmed that the old four- or five-digit numbers had been converted to the seven-digit exchange format.\n\n\nManual numbers were still used in some peninsula cities and were listed in the directory without the first two letters of the name capitalized, indicating a non-dialable point requiring operator assistance to reach. For example:\n\nTo place calls to certain other Northern California exchanges, such as Sacramento, Stockton, and Vallejo in Northern California, dial customers would dial ‘’0’’ to reach an operator. The operator dialed through a tandem switch and directly called numbers in those cities. These calls were indicated by a star in the telephone directory. For other call destinations, customers dialed ‘’211’’ to reach a long distance operator who would connect the customer using manual trunks to reach a distant operator.\n\nWhen Pacific Telephone converted its San Francisco operations to 2L-5N calling in 1947, the old central office names were kept in most cases, with an extra digit appended. Certain exchanges were abandoned after being converted from manual service, such as WEst, RAndolph, and the famous CHina exchange of Chinatown. The manual 25th Street office in San Francisco, serving the MIssion, ATwater, and VAlencia exchanges, was converted by Pacific to dial in 1952. On September 6, 1953, JUniper 6, previously known as RAndolph in the 2L-4N era, the last manual office within the City and County, cut over its 2700 subscribers to crossbar equipment in the new Juniper central office on Onondaga Avenue.\n\nRiverside maintained a large manual office until 1956. Berkeley converted AShberry 3, its last manual office, to dial in 1963. Crockett, the final Bay Area manual office, was converted to dial in 1969.\n\nAcquisitions over the years extended Pacific Telephone's territory into Oregon, Washington, and northern Idaho. Those operations were split off on July 1, 1961 to form Pacific Northwest Bell. In the 1980s, Pacific Telephone's assets were valued at $14.5 billion, making it the largest of any of the 21 wholly owned Baby Bells owned by AT&T, which also made Pacific Telephone the \"crown jewel\" of the operating companies. However, Pacific Telephone was one of the least profitable Bells due to very tough local telephone regulations in California.\n\nPrior to the AT&T breakup in 1984, AT&T held 89.8% of Pacific Telephone. After the breakup, The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company changed its name to Pacific Bell Telephone Company, or PacBell for short. Pacific Telesis was formed as a holding company for PacBell's interests, with PacBell and Nevada Bell (which PacBell had owned since 1913) as its operating companies. Since Nevada Bell had long been a PacBell subsidiary, that company was omitted from the Modification of Final Judgment that broke up the Bell System.\n\nIn 1997, Pacific Telesis Group was acquired by SBC Communications, and although the Pacific Telesis corporate name disappeared fairly quickly, SBC continued to operate the local telephone companies separately under their original names.\nIn September 2001, SBC rebranded the telephone company \"SBC Pacific Bell\". In late 2002, the companies were rebranded again as \"SBC\". Meanwhile, employees of SBC working in California who support SBC's non-regulated services and/or services provided both within and outside California were transferred to other SBC subsidiaries, like \"Pacific Telesis Shared Services\" and \"SBC Operations, Inc.\" However, for legal and regulatory purposes, employees supporting local regulated services were still employed by \"Pacific Bell Telephone Company dba SBC California (\"SBC California\")\" which is the SBC subsidiary that provides regulated local exchange carrier telephone services within the franchise territory in California.\nOn November 18, 2005, SBC completed its acquisition of AT&T Corp. to form AT&T Inc. Pacific Bell is now known as \"Pacific Bell Telephone Company\", dba AT&T California.\n\nIn 2006, the company's direct parent, originally Ameritech, became AT&T Teleholdings due to an internal reorganization at AT&T. Its former direct parent, Pacific Telesis Group, was legally merged into AT&T Teleholdings.\n\nIn 2007, local telephone service in California was further deregulated, resulting in price increases for AT&T California customers.\n\n\nPacific Bell official website\n"}
{"id": "55136436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55136436", "title": "Pavel Fuks", "text": "Pavel Fuks\n\nPavel Yakovlevich Fuks (born. October 27, 1971, Kharkiv, USSR) is the Ukrainian-Russian businessman, investor, philanthropist and founder of the development company Mos City Group.\n\nFuks is a member of the Supervisory Board of the Babi Yar Holocaust Memorial Center (BYHMC).\n\nAccording to the Ukrainian Focus Magazine 2017 Millionaires’ List, Fuks' net worth was US$270 million, making him the 24th richest person in Ukraine.\n\nPavel Fuks was born in 1971 in Kharkiv, Ukraine. In 1994, he graduated Finance and Credit from Kharkiv National University of Construction and Architecture with Bachelor of Science degrees in Economic and Social Planning.\n\nDuring 1992-1994 he worked as an adviser to the Director General of the joint Soviet-American enterprise \"Trade House Intrada.\"\nFrom 1995 to 1999 he was an adviser to the chairman of the board of JSCB “Prominvestbank”. In 1999-2000 Fuks served as the Vice-President of CJSC \"Foreign Economic Corporation.\"\n\nIn 2002, he reoriented to the construction business. Among Fuks’ first projects was the shopping center \"Kaluzhskii\" which has operated since 2001. Fuks and the Director of “Ingeokom,” Mikhail Rudyak, co-founded “Ingeokom-Invest” and Fuks became the Chairman of the Board of Directors, he served until 2004. From 2004 to 2006, Fuks became the General Director of his own company CJSC \"Tekhinvest.\"\n\nIn 2006, he founded “Mos City Group,” which by the beginning of 2008 had collected a portfolio of about 7 million square meters projects, including several skyscrapers in “Moscow-City” business center, namely the Imperia Tower (280,000 sq. m.) and Eurasia Tower (211,000 sq. m.) and became one of the largest development companies in Moscow. In the autumn of 2007, MCG purchased “Aerostar” Hotel on Leningradskii Prospekt in Moscow. Mos City Group was a minority shareholder of OJSC Sports Complex \"Olimpiyskii\" and purchased a minority share of the Moscow sports complex. Since 2009, Fuks has been a member of the Board of Directors of SC \"Olympiyskii\". But in May 2014, Pavel Fuks sold his 27.5% of shares of the “Olympiyskii” Sports Complex to Dmitry Shumkov.\n\nIn 2008, Fuks became a member of the Board of the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Russia.\n\nIn June 2008, he negotiated with the current US President Donald Trump about the construction of Trump Tower in Moscow, but the businessmen were unable to reach an agreement.\n\nSince 2010, Pavel Fuks was the largest shareholder of Sovkombank where he owns a 21.83% stake. In March 2015, he sold his shares, which were valued at US$80 million.\n\nAt the moment of purchase of Sovkombank, it was ranked as the 98th best bank in Russia. However, at the moment of sale, the bank had moved to the 19th place in the national ranking of Russian banks and it was in the Top 5 by the return on capital.\n\nIn 2011, he was ranked 150th on the “Finance” magazine Russian billionaires list, with a total net worth of US$740 million, marked with a 0 * (meaning that he started from a scratch).\n\nFuks interest in development, construction, banking, oil and gas industries.\n\nFuks regularly helps his native city. He took part in the restoration of Kharkiv regional philharmonic, built the church of the Holy Queen Tamara, and built a monument to the mythical founder of the Kharkiv city Cossack Kharko.\n\nIn 2014, Pavel Fuks was awarded with the title \"Honorary Citizen of Kharkiv.\"\n\nFuks is the co-organizer of the construction of the memorial complex \"Babi Yar\" (the project worth of the complex is estimated at US$50–100 million, and it is planned to be completed it in 2021, on the 80th anniversary of the tragedy of Babi Yar). On March 19, 2017, the Supervisory Board of the Memorial Center for the Holocaust “Babi Yar” was established, and included Pavel Fuks, the Mayor of Kiev Vitali Klitschko and his brother, the professional boxer Wladimir Klitschko, the shareholders of the consortium “Alfa Group” Mikhail Fridman and German Khan and others. The project’s development fund was created with the help of consultants from the American big-four accounting firm “Ernst & Young.” \n\nAccording to Fuks, the structure of the memorial will include educational programs, a research center and a museum.\n\nPavel Fuks is a member of the charitable foundation \"A City without Barriers,\" which is committed to creating a comfortable environment for people with physical and intellectual disabilities.\n\n\nFuks is fond of sports (namely boxing and tennis).\n\n"}
{"id": "34099271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34099271", "title": "Peak Time", "text": "Peak Time\n\nThe Peak Time is an international student business competition organized every year by the students of the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga. Currently, it is one of the biggest international events held in the Baltic States, attracting attention from about around 2000 students from 70 countries, i.e., USA, Germany, UK, Brazil, Canada, Singapore, Sweden, China, Italy, and others. Over 16 years, thousands of students have applied and competed against each other, to win prizes and gain experience. Participants of the competition are tested in their analytic and decision making skills in an online business simulation provided by CESIM, but their ability to provide creative solutions for real life business problems is challenged in case studies prepared by consultancy companies. Teams and individuals which break to the finals in Riga not only compete for main prizes, but also have an opportunity to listen to world famous speakers and attend social and networking events.\n\nPeak Time has originated in year 1999, where it was first organized at the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga, exclusively by the students themselves. The initial aim of the competition was “to find the most talented and passionate students from the Baltic States, involve top companies that were looking for high-performing employees and establish an annual meeting platform – Peak Time”. As time passed by, it started to become more and more international, and now it gathers around 1.5 thousand participants from around 70 countries around the world. The motto of Peak Time is BE THE ONE WHO SHAPES TOMORROW OF BUSINESS.\n\nParticipants register as a team of four people or as an individual, when the registration for the competition is opened. After the participants have registered and sent in their applications, the preliminary online round of the competition starts.\n\nThe first stage is playing in a business simulation, provided by the Finnish company CESIM. In the business simulation participants have to operate a production company in a competitive market and play against other teams in the assigned group. The goal of the simulation is to gain the biggest share of the market. After the simulation round, the results are summed up, and top 100 teams and top 100 individuals are invited to the next round of the competition.\n\nThe next round of the competition is solving a case study. Case study is usually a challenging task - teams and individuals are provided with raw data and other relevant information about a company, market, country etc. and they have to provide both numerical and creative analysis for the given tasks. For example: how to cut on costs, without making the customer suffer from that.After the case study solutions are evaluated, 16 teams (64 people) and 16 individuals (16 people) are invited to come to the final stage which is held in Riga. If a person is invited as an individual, he or she is randomly given a team (to form 4 teams of 4 individual participants in each team) whereas those who come as teams continue to participate together.\n\nThe finals in Riga have three stages: the first day is CESIM simulations, where the participants once again have to play a more complex yet faster version of the CESIM simulation. The next day they are given a case study, which they once again have to solve and present this time live to jury members. After the two stages are finished, the results are summed up and the top 5 teams are selected, who will have to prove their worthiness once more - they will receive another case study which they will then have to solve and present during only a couple of hours. Afterwards, the teams are ranked once again by the same jury members, and the winners of Peak Time are finally chosen.\n\nThe final event is not only about a tough competition. It's also a good time to meet new friends and acquaintances. Throughout the three days, the participants have special evening programmes: team building activities in the city, led by our student compadres, Cultural and National evenings, where the participants share something that they brought from their countries, or experience what Latvian culture has to offer. And of course a party. It is held on the day the top 5 is selected - during the party the winners are announced and leave to prepare for the next day, whereas the other finalists party SSE Riga style.\n\n"}
{"id": "7118266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7118266", "title": "Peer Leadership Program", "text": "Peer Leadership Program\n\nThe Peer Leadership is a school educational program that looks upon upperclassmen to help ease the transition to the underclassman's respective freshmen year, usually run in public Universities and high schools. The Peer Program is considered to stress communal interaction and social insight. Before meeting with smaller groups of newcomers the larger Peer Leader is trained to deal and mentor with the educational needs the newcomers may express.\n\nThe methodology most commonly used in training the members of Peer is known as the Five Stages Approach, which teaches Peer Leaders about the five stages of a group. It is important to note that this is the interpretation of the journey, per se, that many peer groups embark upon. The stages are:\n\nStage One: \"Forming\", which understands that upon first creating groups, the members will be nervous. This stage remains crucial for leaders to emerge.\n\nStage Two: \"Norming\", following \"forming\", is the stage in which group members begin to adjust to their new, institutionalized atmosphere. The Peer members themselves begin to initiate general conversation and, within time, to manifest state-sponsored curriculum upon their members.\n\nStage Three: \"Storming\", the stage in which the freshmen begin to fight for roles in the group. Often conflict erupts emotionally as true feelings are expressed and group members learn about how others perceive them.\n\nStage Four: \"Performing\", the point in which the group members have the capacity to feel comfortable with each other. Unlike the stage preceding it, many of the emotions felt on this level are of trust and kindness, although apathy and disinterest may also peak in certain members during this stage.\n\nStage Five: \"Mourning and Reform\", the final stage which involves a parting of ways as group members review and reflect on the past. At the same time, they also focused on their future lives and ways that they will impart their differences upon the world. The Peer Leader must stress that it is the responsibility of the individual group members to act responsibly and morally in their future endeavors, taking care to especially stress the value of autonomy and self-direction.This is the most vital of all stages it ties all the stages together and helps to students cope with their feelings as they move on.\n\nPeer leaders often have various ways of recognizing each other as well as expressing the Peer bond and emotional trust between Peer leaders. There are many levels on which Peer recognition functions, starting from the most basic and common form to the most complex form:\n\nLevel 1: \"Fist Peer\": This is a soft fist pound in which Peer leaders recognize each other and express their bond through Peer, often repeating such phrases as \"Peer\" or \"Peer love\". This is by far the most common form of Peer recognition.\n\nLevel 2: \"Eye Peer\": This type of recognition involves Peer leaders making eye contact with each other for several seconds, followed by a slight head nod, which signifies that both leaders recognize each other as fellow Peer members. The Eye Peer works well because it can allow Peer members to bond from long distances.\n\nLevel 3: \"Mental Peer\": The Mental Peer allows a Peer leader to recognize the presence of other Peer members without making direct contact, as well as allowing the Peer member to recognize when other members are thinking of Peer.\n\nThese 3 levels are the only known levels of Peer recognition, although other, more complex forms are reputed to be in development. Some forms of Peer recognition vary from school to school and program to program and may contain handshakes, shared sayings or certain high five like motions or dance moves. These forms of peer recognition are usually handed down through the years and their exact meanings safeguarded.\n\nSome object to the standardization that the program imposes upon its members, especially within the high school level, where a significant majority of the freshmen class may be members. For example, Peer Leaders are given curriculum to follow each week under strict instruction to not deviate. Much of the curriculum that Peer Leaders and members give/receive, respectively, is pre-screened by school officials, in addition to having been directly handed down from the respective state Department of Education (i.e. NJ Dept. of Education, NJ being the first state to implement the Peer Program). Thus, an argument can be made that neither freshmen nor seniors have input on the information and pro-social lessons that they must discuss, and are forced into discussions on topics that are frequently irrelevant, unimportant, or generally uninteresting. High School freshmen have especially been known to express their dissent about issues, rules, and values that are taught to them. Furthermore, not all group members feel comfortable discussing personal problems and giving input to conversation, leading to an estrangement between the more socially-oriented group members and those who are more introverted in nature. For many freshmen, large Peer Groups (as many as 20+ in several instances) are intimidating and may reach a state of uncontrollability on the part of the Peer Leaders, who lack the authority of teachers.\n\nThe Peer Leader selection process has been a particular subject of scrutiny. Peer Leaders chosen are typically gregarious and outgoing, and females comprised 65% of the Peer force within the 2008-2009 Somerville High School school year. Through a series of group examinations in which random Peer applicants are given physical leadership puzzles to complete within specified time periods, the most outspoken individuals are looked upon highly. Through group interviews that follow, seniors that are similarly self-confident and socially agreeable are chosen as Peer Leaders. Those judged to have a speaking impediment, perceived shyness of character, or any other noticeable personality flaw(s) are passed up in favor of other students. Seniors who have been given a certain number of after school, and/or Saturday detentions, and/or suspensions are officially banned from the program and cannot apply. Through careful selection of Peer Leaders, socially acceptable role models for incoming freshmen students can be chosen and institutional image reinforced.\n\nAstin, A. W., (1985). Achieving Educational Excellence. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nAstin, A. W., (1993). What matters in college? Four critical years revisited. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nChickering, A. W., (1969). Education and Identity. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n\nGardner, J. N., (1996). “Power to Peers.” Keystone Newsletter. Belmont, CA. Wadsworth Publishing Company.\n\nGardner, J. N., (1998, August). Current Trends in the first college year. Lee University Annual Training Seminar for Freshman Seminar Instructors and Peer Leaders, conducted at Johnston Woods, Cleveland, TN.\nHamid, S. L. & VanHook, J., (1999). [Peer Leader Program Questionnaire]. Unpublished raw data. (Available from the Office of First-Year Programs, Lee University, \nCleveland, TN, 37320-3450.\n\nPascarella, E. T. & Terenzini, P.T., (1991). How college affects students. San Francisco: Josses-Bass.\n"}
{"id": "4459400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459400", "title": "Pueblo de Los Ángeles", "text": "Pueblo de Los Ángeles\n\nEl Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles (the Town of Our Lady the Queen of the Angels) was the Spanish civilian \"pueblo\" founded in 1781, which by the 20th century became the American metropolis of Los Angeles.\n\nOfficial settlements in Alta California were of three types: \"presidio\" (military), \"mission\" (religious) and \"pueblo\" (civil). The Pueblo de los Ángeles was the second pueblo (town) created during the Spanish colonization of California (the first was San Jose, in 1777). \"El Pueblo de la Reina de los Ángeles\"—'The Town of the Queen of Angels' was founded twelve years after the first \"presidio\" and \"mission\", the Presidio of San Diego and the Mission San Diego de Alcalá (1769). The original settlement consisted of forty-four people in eleven families, recruited mostly from Estado de Occidente. As new settlers arrived and soldiers retired to civilian life in Los Angeles, the town became the principal urban center of southern Alta California, whose social and economic life revolved around the raising of livestock on the expansive \"ranchos\".\n\nIn 1542 Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo, with a commission from Viceroy Antonio de Mendoza, was the first European to sail along and explore the California coast. Although he claimed all he saw as territory of the Spanish Empire, no efforts at colonization were made for over two hundred years. Concerned about colonizing efforts by the Russians and French, Spain set plans in motion in the 1760s to establish a presence and defend its claim to the territory.\n\nThe Spanish settlement did not reach Alta California until 1769, when explorer Gaspar de Portolà reached the San Diego area via the first land route from Mexico. Accompanying him were two Franciscan Padres, Junípero Serra and Juan Crespí, who recorded the expedition. As they came through today's Elysian Park, they were awed by a river that flowed from the northwest, past their point and on southward. Crespí named the river \"El Río de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles de Porciúncula\", meaning, in Spanish, \"the River of Our Lady Queen of the Angels of Porciuncula\". The name derives from Santa Maria degli Angeli (Italian: \"St. Mary of the Angels\") which is the name of the small town in Italy housing the Porciuncula, the church where St. Francis of Assisi, founder of the Franciscan order, carried out his religious life. The river that was called the Porciuncula is today's Los Angeles River. Because the future town's name was a take on this \"Queen of Heaven\" Marian title, various versions of Crespí's formula would be used for the town, including the exceedingly long \"El Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles sobre el Río Porciúncula\".\n\nDuring the expedition, Father Crespí observed a location along the river that would be good for a settlement or mission. However, in 1771, Father Serra instead commissioned two missionaries to establish the Mission San Gabriel Arcángel-San Gabriel Mission near the present day Whittier Narrows section of the San Gabriel River. The missionaries encountered resistance from the Tongva to their attempts to resettle the Natives on the mission. The mission encountered further trouble in 1776 when a flood damaged the mission, convincing the missionaries to move and rebuild the mission on a higher and more defensible location: its present site in San Gabriel. The first Spanish governor of Las Californias, Felipe de Neve had, as well, recommended to Viceroy Bucareli Father Crespí's location on the Río Porciúncula (Los Angeles River) for a mission. Instead, in 1781, King Charles III mandated that a pueblo be built on the site instead, which would be the second town in Alta California, after San José de Guadalupe in 1777. The monarch, disregarding the production and trade roles of the missions, saw a greater need for secular pueblos to be established as the centers of agriculture and commerce to supply the crown's ever-growing military presence in \"Nueva California.\" The priests at the missions ignored the royal mandate and continued their ranching, trading and production of tallow, soap, hides, and beef, often in competition with new pueblo ventures.\n\nGovernor de Neve took his assignment seriously and had a complete set of maps and plans drawn up by May 1780 for the layout and settlement of the new pueblo, including the placement of government houses, town houses, the church, the fields, the farms, and access to the river – the \"Instrucción\" and the \"Reglamento para el gobierno de la Provincia de Californias\". But gathering the \"pobladores\"-settlers was a little more difficult. After failing to recruit the target number of families in Sonora, he had to go as far as Sinaloa to finally end up with 11 families, that is, 11 men, 11 women, and 22 children of various Spanish American castes: Criollo, Mulatto and \"Negro\".\n\nAs local lore tells it, on September 4, 1781 the 44 \"pobladores\" gathered at San Gabriel Mission and, escorted by a military detachment and two priests from the Mission, set out for the site that Crespí had chosen. In reality, several of the families were probably already working on their plots of land as early as late July. Governor de Neve gave the new town the name \"El Pueblo de la Reina de los Ángeles\"-The Town of the Queen of the Angels. Per the Laws of the Indies and \"Reglamento\" the new towns in Alta California were to have four square leagues of land; that is a distance marked by one league in each cardinal direction from the town center. The streets, however, were laid out at forty-five degrees from the cardinal directions, a plan which is still preserved in Downtown Los Angeles. The old town limits are still marked by Hoover and Indiana Streets in the west and east respectively. In 1784 an \"asistencia\" or sub-mission of the San Gabriel Mission was established on the central plaza, to provide religious services to the settlers.\n\nThe pueblo came under the jurisdiction of the Commandancy General of the Internal Provinces in the Viceroyalty of New Spain. As a pueblo, Los Angeles was granted a \"cabildo\" (town council). The first municipal officers, the \"regidores\" (council members) and \"alcalde\" (municipal magistrate), were appointed by Governor de Neve. Subsequent ones were elected annually by the settlers, the \"vecinos pobladores\". Since the government of Las Californias had a strong military orientation in this early phase of colonization, the civilian \"cabildo\" was originally supervised by a \"commisionado\" (commissioner) appointed by the \"comandante\" (commander) of the Presidio of Santa Barbara, who was charged with making sure the \"alcalde\" and \"regidores\" carried out their duties correctly. The first \"commisionado\" was José Vicente Feliz, one of the soldiers who accompanied the original 44 settlers to the pueblo. The first recorded \"alcalde\" was José Vanegas, who served in 1786 and 1796. Vanegas was first listed as an Indian in the original 1781 \"padrón\" (register) but then as a Mestizo in the 1790 census. The next few \"alcaldes\" reflected the mixed population of the small settlement: José Sinova, a Criollo, 1789; Mariano de la Luz Verdugo, a Criollo, 1790; and Juan Francisco Reyes, a Mulatto, 1793. Among the first \"regidores\" were Felipe Santiago García (a Criollo) and Manuel Camero (a Mulatto in the 1781 \"padrón\", and a Mestizo in 1790 census). In judicial affairs, both military and civil cases were appealed to the Audiencia of Guadalajara.\n\nOn August 18, 1814 Father Luis Gíl y Taboada placed the cornerstone of a new Franciscan church amidst the ruins of the original \"asistencia\". The completed structure was dedicated on December 8, 1822. A replacement chapel, named \"La Iglesia de Nuestra Señora de los Ángeles\" (The Church of Our Lady of the Angels) was rebuilt utilizing materials of the original church in 1861. The term \"Reina\" (queen) was added later to reconcile the church's name with that of the town. The small chapel, also called \"La Placita\" and \"the Plaza Church,\" served the total Californio and immigrant Roman Catholic community as the only church in the vicinity of the City of Los Angeles until the 1876 construction of the Cathedral of Saint Vibiana. Saint Vibiana Cathedral became the English-speaking parish and \"La Placita\" became the Spanish-speaking parish. \"The Plaza Church\" still stands today, exhibiting Spanish Colonial and Carpenter Gothic architectural styles.\n\nThe Los Angeles parish was under the Diocese of Sonora until 1840, when a new Diocese of the Two Californias was established to serve the Baja California Peninsula and Alta California. Both the dioceses of Sonara and the Two Californias were suffragan of the Archdiocese of Mexico.\n\nAfter Mexico's War of Independence (1810–1821) from Spain, life began to change in Los Angeles and Alta California . With the secularization of the missions, their land was distributed for the establishment of many more ranchos. The Native population was displaced or absorbed into the Hispanic population.\n\nBeginning about 1827, Los Angeles, now the largest pueblo of the territory, became a rival of Monterey for the honor of being the capital of California; was the seat of conspiracies to overthrow the Mexican authority; and the stronghold of the South California party in the bickering and struggles that lasted down to the American occupation.\n\nIn about 1834, Richard Henry Dana, Jr. visited San Pedro Harbor as a sailor. His book, \"Two Years Before the Mast\", includes a brief depiction of the pueblo and area, then dependent on the export of cattle hides and tallow. In 1835 it was made a city by the Mexican Congress, and declared the capital, but the last provision was not enforced and was soon recalled. In 1836–1838, it was the headquarters of Carlos Antonio Carrillo, a legally named but never \"de facto\" governor of California, whose jurisdiction was never recognized in the north; and, in 1845–1847, it was the actual capital.\n\nIn 1842, a sheep rancher, pausing under an oak tree, discovered gold in Placerita Canyon in Rancho San Francisco, just north of the city sparking a minor gold rush. In subsequent decades local mining employed hard rock and placer techniques. Land however turned out to be the more \"profitable gold\", as ranching and development expanded as the town and region grew.\n\nManifest Destiny reached California at the time of the Mexican–American War (1846–1848). On June 18, 1846 a small group of Yankees raised the California Bear Flag and declared independence from Mexico in the Bear Flag Revolt in Northern California. United States troops then took control of the presidios at Monterey and San Francisco, and proclaimed the invading \"conquest\" complete. In Southern California, the Mexican citizens repelled American troops for five months, utilizing about 160 vaqueros, or cowboys, against about 700 American forces.\n\nLos Angeles initially surrendered to the surprise invasion by United States forces. The small Mexican forces of Los Angeles fled at the approach of US troops, and August 13, 1846 the American flag was raised over the city. A garrison of fifty US Marines under Archibald Gillespie was left in control. The city's population had been rent by factional quarrels when war broke out between Mexico and the United States, but the occupation caused both factions to unite against the invading Americans. Gillespie's garrison was compelled to withdraw in October when the residents, Californio Lancers, vaqueros on horseback without firearms, only lances, revolted and chased the US occupying force back to the San Pedro Harbor. Los Angeles was not retaken until Commodore Stockton again captured the city on January 10, 1847, after the battles at the Siege of Los Angeles, Battle of Dominguez Rancho, Battle of San Pasqual, Battle of Rio San Gabriel and the Battle of La Mesa. These battles, in which the Californios were greatly outmanned and outgunned, represented the important overt resistance to the establishment of the American regime in the Los Angeles Basin. Lieutenant-Colonel Frémont and Governor of Alta California Andrés Pico signed the Treaty of Cahuenga, an informal agreement to cease fighting in California at the Campo de Cahuenga in the San Fernando Valley in January 1847. Under the later comprehensive 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, Mexico formally ceded nearly half its nation's total territory, including Alta California, to the United States.\n\nLocated on the coastal plains surrounding the Los Angeles River, the town became a cattle ranching center, expanding on the role during the California Gold Rush. It was the center for the Alta California ranchos in the surrounding regions, further developing shipping ability from San Pedro Bay. In the latter 19th century the development of Los Angeles shifted the business district and cultural center of town to the south, present day Downtown Los Angeles, leaving the Pueblo district to decline, and by 1900 it was a less favored area, with the Chinatown district and other ethnic \"ghettos\", and the blight of new railroad adjacent industrial areas.\n\nA 1920s restoration drive led by Christine Sterling began a restoration of the historic area, starting with Olvera Street. Today the Pueblo's original outline is preserved by the El Pueblo de Los Angeles Historic Monument. Among its saved and restored buildings is the oldest standing residence in Los Angeles City, the 1818 Avila Adobe built by Francisco Avila who owned Rancho Las Cienegas -\"mid Wishire area\" and a successful cattle enterprise. Across Olvera Street stands the 1887 Eloisa Martinez de Sepulveda House, that now is the Los Angeles Plaza Historic District Visitors Center. The 1939 construction of the significant transit hub and architectural landmark, the Los Angeles Union Station east of the old Plaza, added to the Pueblo area's reinvigoration.\n\nOf archaeological interest is the discovery of sections of the original brick lined \"Zanja Madre\"-the \"Mother Ditch\", which was a \"surface and underground\" gravity fed canal and aqueduct, that brought water from the Rio Porciuncula-Los Angeles River near the Arroyo Seco confluence, to the colonial pueblo and later the American city into the latter 19th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48684998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48684998", "title": "R. Carey Davis", "text": "R. Carey Davis\n\nR. Carey Davis is the 28th mayor of San Bernardino, California.\n\nDavis was born in San Bernardino and graduated from Pacific High School there. He received his bachelor's degree from Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and his master's in business administration from California State University, San Bernardino.\n\nDavis is a certified public accountant. who works as a controller in Los Angeles for Hehr International, a manufacturer of RV doors and windows.\n\nHe became involved in city politics in spring 2013. He ran for mayor in a ten-candidate field and in the November 5, 2013, election gained second place, being narrowly edged for first place by 7th Ward city council member Wendy McCammack. Davis and McCammack then proceeded to a February 4, 2014, runoff election, in which Davis defeated Wendy McCammack; turnout was low. He was sworn in on March 3, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "22759228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22759228", "title": "Robert B. Choate Jr.", "text": "Robert B. Choate Jr.\n\nRobert Burnett Choate Jr. (November 6, 1924 – May 3, 2009) was an American businessman, political activist, and self-described \"citizen lobbyist\" most famous for his work in consumer protection.\n\nBorn in Boston, Massachusetts, the son of the wealthy publisher of the \"Boston Herald\", Choate attended the Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire for his high school education. After World War II, during which he served in the United States Navy, he received his bachelor's degree in civil engineering from the University of California, Berkeley in 1949. Subsequently, he relocated to Phoenix, Arizona, where he worked as a construction engineer and became wealthy in his own right through real estate investments.\n\nIn the late 1950s, during a trip abroad, he contracted a strain of hepatitis. While recuperating, he read the memoirs of Walter Francis White, the former leader of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Choate, a lifelong Republican, became inspired to use his wealth to battle what he saw as the greatest social ills afflicting America: poverty, hunger, and a lack of civil and political rights for African Americans and other minority groups.\n\nAmong the ventures he undertook to that end over the next several decades were the publishing of a magazine dedicated to social justice, called \"Reveille\"; founding a number of social welfare programs and charities in the Phoenix area; organizing a Southwest conference on poverty, which included such speakers as Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Peace Corps director Sargent Shriver; working in Washington, D.C. as a lobbyist for groups such as the Citizens Crusade Against Poverty; and serving as a consultant to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, where he was credited with initiating a national study on malnutrition. His efforts were later credited with the formation of the United States Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs, which operated from 1968 to 1977, and the creation of the White House Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Health, which met in 1969.\n\nIn September 1970, Choate became famous when he testified before the Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs on the nutritional content (specifically, vitamins, dietary minerals, and protein) of the 60 bestselling brands of dry breakfast cereal in the United States. Choate told the Committee, that, on a scale from 0 to 900, with 900 being the best, 40 of the cereals ranked below 100 and were therefore \"empty calories\" which \"fatten but do little to prevent malnutrition.\" Only three products -- Kellogg Company's Product 19 and General Mills' Kaboom and Total—scored as high as 700. Choate's testimony received much publicity nationally (with a headline in \"Time\" asking, \"Breakfast of Chumps?\"), sparking a public relations war between Choate and the various cereal companies. Although the companies heatedly denied Choate's charges, public opinion eventually sided with him, and the companies decided to voluntarily add nutrition facts labels to their products' boxes, so that consumers could judge their nutritional value for themselves.\n\nIn later years, Choate continued his education, receiving a master's degree in education from Harvard University, before relocating to California, where he started Operation Civic Serve, a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting volunteering amongst college students. On May 3, 2009, he died of natural causes in a retirement community in Lemon Grove, California. He was survived by four children from two of his three marriages, each of which ended in divorce, and three grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "1874413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1874413", "title": "Samuel Cooper (general)", "text": "Samuel Cooper (general)\n\nSamuel Cooper (June 12, 1798 – December 3, 1876) was a career United States Army staff officer, serving during the Second Seminole War and the Mexican–American War. Although little-known today, Cooper was also the highest-ranking Confederate general during the American Civil War. After the conflict, he remained in Virginia as a farmer.\n\nSamuel Cooper was born in New Hackensack, Dutchess County, New York. He was a son of Samuel Cooper and his wife Mary Horton. In 1813 he entered the United States Military Academy at age 15 and graduated 36th in a class of 40 two years later (the customary length of study in that period.) He was appointed a brevet second lieutenant in the U.S. Light Artillery on December 11, 1815. He was promoted to first lieutenant in 1821 and to captain in 1836.\n\nIn 1827, Cooper married Sarah Maria Mason, becoming the brother-in-law of future Confederate diplomat James M. Mason and later the father-in-law of Union General Frank Wheaton. Sarah's sister, Ann Maria Mason, was the mother of Confederate cavalry general Fitzhugh Lee, a nephew of Robert E. Lee, while her brother John Mason, was a son-in-law of Gen. Alexander Macomb. Cooper served as aide-de-camp for Gen. Macomb from 1828 to 1836 and under his supervision authored \"A Concise System of Instructions and Regulations for the Militia and Volunteers of the United States\".\n\nCooper served in numerous artillery units until 1837, when he was appointed chief clerk of the U.S. War Department. In 1838 he received a brevet promotion to major and was appointed assistant adjutant general of the Army. Nine years later, with a brevet as lieutenant colonel, he served in the same capacity.\n\nCooper's service in the Second Seminole War of 1841–42 was a rare departure for him from Washington, D.C. He was chief of staff for Col. William J. Worth, and after hostilities ended he returned to staff duty in Washington from 1842 to 1845. Cooper received a brevet promotion to colonel on May 30, 1848, for his War Department service in the Mexican–American War, and was promoted to the permanent rank of colonel in the regular army and appointed the army's Adjutant General on July 15, 1852. Cooper also served very briefly as acting U.S. Secretary of War in 1857.\n\nCooper was also a slave owner. At the time of the 1850 census, he owned six slaves.\n\nAt the beginning of the Civil War, Cooper's loyalties were with the South. His wife's family was from Virginia, and he had a close friendship with Jefferson Davis, who had also been U.S. Secretary of War. One of his last official acts as Adjutant General of the U.S. Army was to sign an order dismissing Brig. Gen. David E. Twiggs from the army. Twiggs had surrendered his command and supplies in Texas to the Confederacy (and was shortly thereafter made a Confederate major general.) This order was dated March 1, 1861, and Cooper resigned six days later. He traveled to Montgomery, Alabama, at the time the Confederacy's capital, to join the Confederate States Army.\n\nOn reaching Montgomery, Cooper was immediately given a commission as a brigadier general on March 16, 1861. He served as both Adjutant General and Inspector General of the Confederate Army, a post he held until the end of the war. Cooper provided much-needed organization and knowledge to the fledgling Confederate War Department, drawing on his years performing such duties as Adjutant General of the U.S. Army.\n\nOn May 16, 1861, Cooper was promoted to full general in the Confederate Army. He was one of five men promoted to the grade at that time, and one of only seven during the war, but with the earliest date of rank. Thus, despite his relative obscurity today, he outranked such luminaries as Albert Sidney Johnston, Robert E. Lee, Joseph E. Johnston, and P. G. T. Beauregard. Cooper reported directly to Confederate President Jefferson Davis. At the war's end in 1865, Cooper surrendered and was paroled on May 3 at Charlotte, North Carolina.\n\nWhile building defenses near Washington, D.C., Union forces demolished his home and used its bricks to build a fort dubbed \"Traitor's Hill\" in Cooper's honor.\n\nCooper's last official act in office was to preserve the official records of the Confederate Army and turn them over intact to the United States government, where they form a part of the \"Official Records\", \"The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies\", published starting in 1880. Military historians have highly regarded Cooper for this action. Historian Ezra J. Warner believed that in doing so Cooper was \"thereby making a priceless contribution to the history of the period.\"\n\nAfter the war, Cooper was a farmer at his home, Cameron, near Alexandria, Virginia. His house had been taken over by the U.S. government during the war and turned into a fort, but he was able to move into what had been an overseer's house. Due to his age Cooper earned a meager living. On August 4, 1870, Robert E. Lee, on the behalf of other former Confederates, sent Cooper $300. Lee wrote to him saying, \"To this sum I have only been able to add $100, but I hope it may enable you to supply some immediate want and prevent you from taxing your strength too much.\" Samuel Cooper died at his home in 1876, and is buried in Alexandria's Christ Church Episcopal Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45863353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45863353", "title": "Social justice educational leadership", "text": "Social justice educational leadership\n\nSocial justice educational leadership emphasizes the belief that all students can and will reach proficiency, without exceptions or excuses, and that schools ought to be organized to advance the equitable learning of all students. Rather than focusing on one group of students who traditionally struggle, or who traditionally succeed, social justice leaders address the learning needs of all students. Social justice educational leadership specifically addresses how differences in race, income, language, ability, gender, and sexual orientation influence the design and effectiveness of learning environments. Social justice leadership draws from inclusive education practices from disability education, but extends the concepts further to support students from diverse groups with a wide range of needs. Through restructuring staff allocation and assessing student progress through disaggregated data, school leaders strive to create schools with equal access and equitable support for all students.\n\nSocial justice educational leaders recognize the role race, ethnicity, family income, ability, gender, and sexual orientation play in predicting student success in school. They commit to creating schools that address societal inequalities by striving to help all students reach academic proficiency. As described by Scheurich and Skrla, \"In striving for both equity and excellence... we are aiming for schools in which there are no persistent patterns of differences in academic success or treatment among students grouped by race, ethnicity, culture, neighborhood, income of parents, or home language. In other words, we are aiming to foster schools that literally serve each and every student really well.\" (pg. 2).\n\nIn order to assess whether these patterns of difference exist, social justice leaders use data tools, such as equity audits, to uncover structures that create differences in student learning outcomes. Equity audits use data such as standardized test scores, discipline rates, family involvement in schools, advanced course participation, special education labeling, at-risk identification, and intervention placement to create profiles of achievement for different student groups in the school. Equity audits reveal achievement gap trends in these areas, in which traditionally marginalized students frequently perform at lower levels than their more privileged peers. Many schools find demographically similar groups of students struggling in academics, language, discipline, graduation rates, and other markers of student success. Once these patterns are identified, social justice leaders equip staff and students with the skills necessary to address discrepancies in student learning needs.\n\nSocial justice leadership builds on concepts of inclusive education, in which services are brought to students in the general classroom environment, rather than pulling students out to a resource room. However, social justice leadership diverges somewhat from inclusive education in that full inclusion at all times is not required. Social justice leaders focus on providing services in classrooms and other flexible spaces that can be accessed by all students, rather than removing students to receive special support in separate classrooms. Social justice leadership also emphasizes assigning students to classrooms and groups using proportional representation. This means that the proportion of students in any classroom or group should match the natural proportion of students from all demographic groups in the school. For example, if 15% of the student body is Latino, then 15% of every classroom should be Latino, only 15% of students who qualify for special education should be Latino and only 15% of students receiving discipline should be Latino.\n\nThis method of bringing services to students in general education environments with proportional representation also differs from pull-out models like response to intervention (RtI). Many pull-out models identify students struggling in the classroom and assign them to interventions led by educator specialists outside the general education classroom, rather than by their classroom teachers. For students with more significant needs, pull-out interventions may be from several staff, such as from the Title I teacher, reading interventionist, speech therapist, and social worker, introducing multiple adults and environments to students who would most benefit from consistency. This practice locates the responsibility for educating students with additional needs with the interventionist, rather than the classroom teacher, reducing their efficacy.\n\nMany school behavior management efforts criminalize small infractions, and maintain a focus on retribution rather than restoration. This, combined with institutional and individual bias, results in a significant overrepresentation of students of color in suspension and expulsion rates. Advocates of social justice in schools purport that exclusionary discipline practices such as suspension and expulsion actively remove students from their school communities and exacerbate feelings of isolation and resentment.\n\nZero tolerance policies, popularized in the 1990s, have been shown to be ineffective on multiple measures, leaving school leaders looking for alternative strategies to promote safe and orderly learning environments. School leaders focused on social justice are additionally compelled to find strategies that disrupt persisting inequities. This is where restorative justice practices, culturally and linguistically responsive practices (CLRP) and Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (PBIS) come into play as approaches aiming to address both institutional inequities and the need for safe learning environments.\n\nPBIS comes with a variety of acronyms. Some schools cut out the “intervention” part, going with the proactive-only PBS system. PBIS is more akin to the three-tiered Response to Intervention system. Others add in the necessity of schoolwide (SW) implementation, dubbing the program SWPBIS. Whatever variation is used (here, PBIS), the primary practices included in the system are listed below. PBIS has shown promise in reducing exclusionary discipline practices overall, but has not shown, on its own, to be effective at reducing the racial disparities in student discipline, and in some cases has even been shown to exacerbate the discrepancies by further reducing discipline referrals for White students, but not for students of color. These criticisms have led to a call for examination of PBIS, and the integration of CLRP with PBIS in order to address systemic inequities in school discipline.\n\nCLRP has its roots in the work of Gloria Ladson-Billings surrounding culturally relevant pedagogy. Reflecting on this initial thinking, Ladson-Billings more recently stated:By focusing on student learning and academic achievement versus classroom and behavior management, cultural competence versus cultural assimilation or eradication, and sociopolitical consciousness rather than school-based tasks that have no beyond-school application, I was able to see students take both responsibility for and deep interest in their education. This is the secret behind culturally relevant pedagogy: the ability to link principles of learning with deep understanding of (and appreciation for) culture.Other scholars have echoed and built upon this work, giving linguistic relevance footing in the literature, proposing specific practices that may help teachers improve pedagogical relevance, and considering how to best integrate PBIS and CLRP.\n\n\nThalia González describes restorative justice in schools as “an approach to discipline that engages all parties in a balanced practice that brings together all people impacted by an issue or behavior.” Heather Alexander details the roots of these practices, stating, “The principles of restorative justice are consistent with many indigenous traditions, including Canadian First Nations people and the Maori in New Zealand.” She also links restorative justice to “entangled roots in native, religious, and legal communities.” Alexander and González have studied how the underpinnings of various cultural, religious, and judicial practices have made their way into the philosophy and practice of restorative justice. Multiple scholars advocate for restorative practices as an alternative to exclusionary approaches to discipline, both in schools and in the criminal justice system.\n\nMany different practices (including, but not limited to: circles, mediation, conferencing, and youth courts) are labeled as restorative justice. Trevor Fronius, et. al describe restorative justice as “a broad term that encompasses a growing social movement to institutionalize peaceful and non-punitive approaches for addressing harm, responding to violations of legal and human rights, and problem solving.” This definition speaks to restorative justice as more of a collection of practices rooted in a common philosophy than a specific “program.” Fronius, et. al go on to say that “the emphasis on the harm done rather than the act is a widely recognized principle across the RJ literature.” and they speak to Dorothy Vaandering’s work surrounding “how to use shame as a path toward reintegration rather than stigmatization.\" \nKey Principles of Restorative Justice \n\nBoth inclusive and pull-out models seek to reduce the student to teacher ratio, but inclusive models do so by bringing services and staff expertise to students. Thus, social justice leaders need to strategically plan how to effectively allocate their limited staff resources. Rather than having several specialists who work with students with specific needs, leaders structure collaborative teams of classroom teachers, cross-categorical special education teachers, and bilingual resource teachers to support classrooms of students.\n\nSocial justice educational leadership has been critiqued in several ways. Some feel social justice leadership reinforces the categorization of students, even though the approach emphasizes reducing unnecessary student labeling. The data equity audits \nfocus mostly on identifying inequitable learning outcomes, but few solutions and strategies are suggested for improving these outcomes. By identifying the classroom teacher as responsible for ensuring all students reach proficiency, many teachers feel unsupported in the work and struggle to adequately differentiate lessons for their students. Finally, social justice educational leadership emphasizes proficiency as measured by standardized test scores, which limits the space for innovation and teaching that builds higher-order thinking, which is difficult to measure on standardized tests.\n\n"}
{"id": "4171440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171440", "title": "Ted Sioeng", "text": "Ted Sioeng\n\nTed Sioeng (pronounced 'shyong') (), also known as Xiong Delong and Sioeng San Wong, is an Indonesian businessman with interests in the United States, China, Vietnam and other parts of Asia, worth around US$5 million.\n\nSioeng grew up in Indonesia. Raised in an ethnically Chinese family, he has a strong affinity for China, which is now the focus of his business interests, while he also admires the United States - he and his family have been based in Los Angeles since 1987.\n\nWhile in his 20s, Sioeng became successful selling foam rubber padding. In the 1970s, he was quick to recognize that money could be made in emerging China and he built a multimillion-dollar fortune selling the Chinese used factory equipment – such as for cigarette- and toy-manufacturing and in the medical field – and exporting Chinese cigarettes to the West. In China, he goes by the name Xiong Delong.\n\nHe quickly saw that by donating money to good causes, such as to build schools, hospitals, and roads, he could gain favour with local governments. In Yunnan, this approach gained him a license to sell the popular Hongtashan brand of cigarettes – called 'Red Pagoda Mountain' in the U.S. – outside of China. He now runs the business as a (dollar-based) joint venture.\n\nHe is owner of the Chinese-language International Daily News, published in the United States and Indonesia.\n\nMr Ted Sioeng was a major figure in the 1996 United States campaign finance controversy, notably sitting next to Bill Clinton and Al Gore at fundraising events after having donated to the Democratic Party funds allegedly linked to China. In 1997 the U.S. Congress was informed by the U.S. attorney general, and the directors of the CIA, FBI, and NSA that they had credible intelligence information indicating Sioeng was an agent of China.\n\nAccording to an unclassified final draft of a report by the US Senate committee then investigating campaign finance abuses, half of the $400,000 given to the Democrats by Sioeng and his family was \"funded by transfer from overseas accounts,\" suggesting that the money came from the Chinese government.\n\nMr Ted Sioeng, who is ethnically Indonesian, began his life in an orphanage. He was then brought up (in Indonesia) by an Indonesian Chinese couple, which led to his interests in China.\n\nHe is married with five children, including his eldest, daughter Jessica Elnitiarta, who heads the family interests in California and was also involved in the Clinton controversy, having donated $300,000, some of which was alleged to have been Chinese government money.\n\nMr. Ted Sioeng holds a Singapore passport but his wife and children are permanent U.S. residents. He is able to speak good English.\n"}
{"id": "32959826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32959826", "title": "The Support Center", "text": "The Support Center\n\nThe Support Center (TSC or formerly known as the North Carolina Minority Support Center) is a not-for-profit organization and a community development financial institution(CDFI), based in Raleigh, North Carolina. It is a statewide nonprofit that partners with Community Development Credit Unions (CDCUs) and community-based organizations to provide small business and mortgage lending services to its members; and to provide training, grants, and loans to create economic opportunities for individuals, families, and communities in underserved markets.\n\nThe Support Center was founded in 1990 by Lenwood V. Long, Sr. and Martin D. Eakes. Later, Saundra Scales of the School Workers Federal Credit Union and Jim Gilliam of St. Luke joined The Support Center.\n\nThroughout its history, The Support Center has offered its affiliates the following services: technical assistance, capital support, advocacy, marketing, financial education, capital grants and youth financial education. However, due to consolidation and mergers after the 2008 financial crisis, The Support Center now focuses mainly on Small Business Lending, Policy & Research, Technical Assistance and Capital Support.\n\nThe Support Center offers loans directly as well as through their affiliated credit unions with support from federal and state funding. It focuses on specific loan products that are not easily available through traditional bank services. They are currently offering two programs for small business owners: USDA Intermediary Relending Program (IRP) and NC Small Business Development Loan Program.\n\nThe Support Center helps its affiliates with publishing white papers, impact studies and surveys that address specific issues that relate directly to CDCUs and other community focused financial service groups.\n\nTechnical Assistance include its compliance and regulation services along with brokering assistance with marketing, grant writing and other operational needs. It will also include offering assistance in matching USDA housing financing programs with those offered by our affiliates.\n\nCapital support service will be offering assistance with generating general deposits, secondary capital and lending funds for its affiliates.\n\nCurrently, The Support Center has six CDCU affiliates with more than 110,000 members at 26 branches across the state of North Carolina:\n\n\nThe North Carolina Minority Support Center has been recognized by The Ford Foundation, the White House Partnership for Prosperity, and the World Council of Credit Unions as a national and international model for banking the unbanked and low wealth communities.\n\nIn recent years, The Support Center is facing three main issues in helping underserved market:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12001523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12001523", "title": "Vinod Sekhar", "text": "Vinod Sekhar\n\nDatuk Vinod Balachandra Sekhar is the President and Group Chief Executive of Petra Group, a Malaysian company that focuses on rubber recycling, biotechnology and financial software. He is also the chairman of the Sekhar Foundation, based in Kuala Lumpur and the CEO of Green Rubber. He was named by \"Forbes\" magazine as Malaysia's 28th richest man for 2009.Nevertheless, there were complaints filed against him, leading to lawsuits.\n\nThe title of Dato' was given to Sekhar at the early age of 26 by Yang di Pertuan Besar of Negeri Sembilan, Tuanku Ja'afar Ibni Almarhum Tuanku Abdul Rahman on his 71st birthday, who was at that time the 10th Yang di Pertuan Agong of Malaysia. He was the youngest person to be conferred a Dato'ship.\n\nSekhar is the youngest son of Sukumari Nair and B.C. Sekhar, also known as Mr. Natural Rubber, who for a time provided significant inputs in the global natural rubber industry. He has three siblings. He is married to Winy Sekhar with whom he has two daughters, Petra and Tara.\n\nAside from managing his businesses, Sekhar takes time to write literary contents. He has written numerous plays and even produced a book of poetry. \"In the Mind's Eye\", one of the plays that he has written was a success and was well received when it was produced in the United States, United Kingdom and in his homeland, Malaysia. Dato Vinod paid for it to be produced.\n\nMoreover, he became the host of the first English talk show on television in Malaysia.\n\nHe also enjoys playing golf with a 22 handicap.\n\nWhile he attended Haileybury and Imperial Service College, and writes broadly – for instance he started a non-partisan multiracial youth organisation, Malaysiana Muda. He remained president of one of the largest multiracial youth organisations in Malaysia at that time for two terms.\n\nSekhar was only 21 when he started his business career with just US$50 when he put up his own clothing company called Vincent Siefer Clothing Company that sold college embossed shirts to university students in different American universities. He later then sold his clothing company for US$5 million.\n\nIn 1990, Sekhar formed Sekhar Tunku Imran (STI) Group together with his friend, Tunku Tan Sri Imran and penetrated various business ventures. Some of the most notable business deals that STI had was when it had a joint venture with Disney-MGM Studios in Florida, USA to produce the movie entitled Tarzan, The Epic Adventure.\n\nOver the years, STI teamed up with various business partners both in the local and international scene that in 1997, the Petra Group was born.\n\nThe Petra Group is a privately held company that is well known for Green Rubber Global – the company's key business which is a cost-effective process that can efficiently recycle used rubber.\n\nSekhar is also an active supporter of different socio-civic organisations. He founded the Sekhar Foundation which owns 60% of The Petra Group and acts as the philanthropic arm of the company by supporting various charitable organisations worldwide. The Sekhar Foundation has donated to a range of organisations that are working in the fields of education, poverty alleviation, and healthcare provision. The Foundation is also the main sponsor for South East Asia's largest rain forest research programme in the Danum Valley in Borneo.\n\nGreen Rubber Global (GRG) is a part of Sekhar's Petra Group. A recycling plant is being built near Gallup, New Mexico in USA to pave way to Green Rubber production. Aside from that, GRG is planning to expand and build more recycling plants in US, Mexico and Asia to increase production.\n\nThe recycling plant will make use of the process that Sekhar's father has developed called De-Link to create \"green rubbers\". The De-Link process will devulcanise old and used tyres then revulcanise them and convert them into different new rubber products such as vehicle tyres and footwear soles.\n\nGRG has famous supporters and shareholders like Hollywood celebrities Mel Gibson and Bruce Willis and \"Forbes\" magazine publisher, Steve Forbes.\nHowever, Bruce Willis then sued the company to recoup US$900,000 (RM3.1mil) of the US$2mil he invested.In his complaint filed in the federal court in Los Angeles, Willis said Petra chief executive officer Datuk Vinod B. Sekhar and Tunku Imran induced him to invest in this company \n\nDato' Vinod was also one of the first Malaysians to venture into the former Soviet Union after its breakup and was a part of the privatization of its second largest petrochemical plant. He was also the first Southeast Asian to own both Formula 2000 and Formula 3 Championship motorsports teams, and he founded Malaysia’s first sports car company. \n\nDato' Vinod has presented a variety of papers at and participated in many international conferences including the International Human Rights Conference in Brussels, the first Malaysian International Youth Conference for Unity in Kuala Lumpur, the Asia Europe Young Leaders Conference in Ireland, the New Asian Leaders Retreat in Seoul, South Korea programmer for the World Economic Forum, the WEF’s Davos Annual meeting, he was the Chair of the first New Asian Leaders–Emerging Arab Leaders Summit in Langkawi, which was attended by King Abdullah II of Jordan, and he was a speaker at the 2005 Forbes Global CEO Conference in Sydney.\n\nDato' Vinod is the Chairman of the Sekhar Foundation (which he founded and which currently plays a role in the lives of over 12,000 children globally), the Chairman of the Pelita Harapan (Lantern of Hope) for terminally ill children, the Co-Chairman of the Innocent Child Appeal Fund Board for abused children, and the Chairman of the Sitavani Foundation. He was also the founding President of Malaysian Muda, the first nonpartisan multiracial national youth organization created to develop unity among Malaysian youth, where he warned of polarization among young Malaysians two decades before the government finally acknowledged it was out of control. \n\nIn 1991, for his contribution to the globalization of education and the education of children, Dato' Vinod was made the first and youngest Asian fellow of Kappa Delta Pi, a US-based international Honors Society for Education. This organization awarded its “ The Point of Excellence ” award to his company, the first Asian company to be so honored. Dato' Vinod was 26 years old and one of the youngest to be so honored. The World Economic Forum named him as one of its 40 “New Asian Leaders” (NAL). Grant Thornton named him the Malaysian Corporate Leader of the Year in August 2008.\n\nHe has written several plays and a book of poetry. One of his plays, “In the Mind’s Eye,” was produced with success in the US, UK and Malaysia. Datuk Vinod also hosted Malaysia’s first English language talk show on television. He has also jointly won several New York Festival Awards for his cutting-edge advertising campaigns. In addition to playing golf, tennis and squash, he has a black belt in Judo and is an avid fan of Walt Disney and Mickey Mouse. He has over 290 Disney ties. \n\nIn 2013, Dato' Vinod produced the Indian Film \"Liar's Dice\" which features the story of Kamala, a young woman from Chitkul village and her girl child Manya, who embarks on a journey leaving their native land in search for her missing husband.\n\nDato' Vinod Sekhar has FALSELY CLAIMED that he was awarded the Bharat Samaan Award by the NRI Institute in India.\n\nIn June 2005, the Kuala Lumpur High Court declared Sekhar a bankrupt due to failure of settling his debts to Orix Credit Malaysia Sdn Bhd and 11 other companies that totals RM 12.376 million.According to the application that the director-general of the Insolvency Department has submitted to KL's High Court, Sekhar committed two offences when he was still in directorship of 25 companies and flew out of the country without gaining permission from the Director-General of Insolvency, under Section 38 of the Bankruptcy Act 1967.However, in March 2011, Sekhar's attorney successfully proved to the court that the adjudication and receiving order documents pertaining to the bankruptcy were never served on his client and that the signatures appearing on those documents were forged. Because of that, the application to put Sekhar to jail was dismissed by High Court Senior Assistant Registrar Rozianti Mohamed Hanaphi. \n\nHollywood actor Bruce Willis filed a lawsuit against Vinod Sekhar and Malaysian Prince Imran Ibni Tuanku Ja'afar last November 2008 when the actor wanted to get his $2 million investment but only received $1.1 million.[18]The actor sued Sekhar and Ja'afar for the remaining $900, 000 of his total investment immediately after learning that the plan to launch green rubber was put on hold because of the weakening global economy. In his complaint filed in the federal court in Los Angeles on 22 November 2008, Willis said Petra chief executive officer Datuk Vinod B. Sekhar and Tunku Imran induced him to invest in a company that was developing a non-toxic and recyclable rubber in 2007, according to a Bloomberg report. Willis was told that former US Vice-President Al Gore and actor Mel Gibson had also invested in the company.\n\nVinod Sekkhar was involved in a dispute over a donation to the University of St Andrews in Scotland. He never kept his promise of a donation and the school was forced to seek funding elsewhere. \n\n"}
{"id": "43746025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43746025", "title": "William Leonard Carter", "text": "William Leonard Carter\n\nWilliam Leonard Carter, R.E. (1877 – 4 July 1917) was a British businessman and army officer.\n\nHe was born in Shanghai in 1877 was educated at St. Paul's School, London. He continued his studies in technical direction at the Central Technical College.\n\nCarter served as a 2nd Lieutenant in the East Lancashire Regiment during the South African War. Later he moved to Hong Kong and joined the China and Japan Telephone Company as a local agent and manager for 13 years. He was keen on forming the Hong Kong Local Centre of the Institution and became the first Chairman of the Local Centre in 1915.\n\nHe became Adjutant of the Hong Kong Volunteer Reserves with the local rank of Captain during the First World War. He later resigned from the post and became the officer commanding of the Royal Engineers stores.\n\nHe died from enteric fever at the Military Hospital in Hong Kong on 4 July 1917. He was buried at the Hong Kong Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "25761345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25761345", "title": "Williamson trade-off model", "text": "Williamson trade-off model\n\nThe Williamson trade-off model is a theoretical model in the economics of industrial organization which emphasizes the trade-off associated with horizontal mergers between gains resulting from lower costs of production and the losses associated with higher prices due to greater degree of monopoly power.\n\nThe model was first presented by Oliver Williamson in his 1968 paper \"Economies as an Antitrust Defense: The welfare tradeoffs\" in the \"American Economic Review\". Williamson argued that ignoring efficiencies that may result from proposed mergers in antitrust law \"fail[ed] to meet the basic test of economic rationality\".\n\nSuppose that a given industry is initially characterized by perfect competition and has a constant unit cost of production equal to \"c1\" (assumed the same across all firms in the industry). Because of competition, the market price of the good produced will be equal to this unit cost, which means that firms in the industry earn normal profits, as captured by the producer surplus (the area below the market price, but above the supply/unit cost curve).\n\nSuppose further that after a merger between firms in the industry takes place, unit costs fall to \"c2<c1\" as a result of economies of scale or other forms of synergy. However, the industry is now less competitive, with a monopoly being the most extreme example. Since the firm is no longer a price taker, the price it charges will be above the (now lower) unit cost. For a monopoly, for example, the price will be set where the unit/marginal cost intersects marginal revenue. This means that the amount of consumer surplus, the area below the demand curve and above the price, will be lower.\n\nThe change in overall social surplus of the market depends on whether the increase in producer surplus due to lower production costs is larger or smaller than the fall in consumer surplus due to higher prices. Note that it is theoretically possible that the fall in unit costs due to the merger could be sufficiently large that the post merger monopoly price ends up being lower than the pre merger competitive price in which case both producer and consumer surplus would increase. In that situation no trade-off exists and the merger is unambiguously beneficial to all market participants. More generally however, a horizontal merger can involve both costs and benefits.\n\nOne implication of the Williamson model is that the gains from cost reduction do not have to be \"large\" in order to outweigh the losses that result from higher prices.\nThis is because the welfare losses associated with the latter tend to be \"second-order\" (graphically, they are triangles), while the gains tend to be \"first-order\" (rectangles). What this means is that the gains from the merger would have to be very small, or alternatively, the demand for the good in question would have to be relatively quite inelastic for social surplus to decrease.\n\nA broader conclusion of the model is that antitrust, or competition, policy should be \"discretionary\". That is, government regulators who are faced with a proposed merger need to examine each proposal on a case by case basis. In some instances, the cost savings might make it worth the loss of competition, while in others they will not. This is in contrast to a \"non-discretionary\" policy where regulators set certain standards that any industry must meet - for example, that no firm has more than 20% market share. Then, they do not actually examine the potential gains or losses to consumer or producer surplus from a proposed merger, but only its impact on meeting the set standard - for example, whether or not the merger will increase a single firm's market share above 20%.\n\nThe model has been applied to the study of mergers in the US rail freight industry and the US food industry, among others. It has also been used in evaluation of actual antitrust laws by American legal scholar and judge Robert Bork. A regulatory approach based on the model was popular in the United States in the 1980s and influenced much antitrust legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58066529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58066529", "title": "Yadin Kaufmann", "text": "Yadin Kaufmann\n\nYadin B. Kaufmann (; born July 31, 1959) is an Israeli-American technology investor, social entrepreneur and writer. Kaufmann has played a key role in Israel’s venture capital scene since the “Startup Nation’s” tech boom began in the 1980s and, more recently, has been involved in efforts to create a Palestinian tech industry.\n\nKaufmann co-founded two venture capital firms: Veritas Venture Partners, an Israel-based fund investing in early-stage tech startups, and Sadara Ventures, the first venture capital fund to target Palestinian tech companies. He also founded two non-profit organizations: Tmura, an Israeli fund that connects the high-tech community to philanthropy in Israel, and the Palestinian Internship Program, which arranges work opportunities for young Palestinian professionals at Israel-based tech and finance companies.\n\nIn 2011, Israeli financial magazine, The Marker, named Kaufmann to its list of the 100 most influential people in the Israeli economy. In 2017, \"Foreign Policy\" magazine named Kaufmann one of its “Global Thinkers”, a list of \"the world's pre-eminent thought leaders and public intellectuals.\"\n\nIn 1987, Kaufmann joined Athena Venture Partners, Israel’s first venture capital fund, just as the “Start-Up Nation” was beginning to develop.\n\nIn 1990, Kaufmann co-founded, with Gideon Tolkowsky, Veritas Venture Partners, an early-stage investor in Israeli technology-based companies.\n\nAthena and Veritas led seed-stage (and subsequent) financing rounds in numerous Israeli companies, including Mercury Interactive Corp. (Nasdaq: MERQ, later acquired by HP); Electronics for Imaging (Nasdaq: EFII), Gilat Satellite Networks (Nasdaq: GILT), Class Data Systems (acquired by Cisco), M-Systems (Nasdaq: MSYS, later acquired by SanDisk), ESC Medical Systems (Nasdaq: ESCMF, later acquired by Lumenis), and others.\n\nKaufmann has launched several initiatives aimed at helping to develop a \"technology ecosystem\" in the Palestinian Territories. He has asserted that his intentions for investing in the Palestinian Territories are to improve Palestinian economy and to increase the chances of peace between Israelis and Palestinians.\n\nIn 2008, Kaufmann partnered with Palestinian tech entrepreneur Saed Nashef and began building the first-ever venture capital fund to target Palestinian tech startups. Despite the backdrop of a global financial crisis and recurring political hostilities in the region, Kaufmann and Nashef raised a $30 million fund from investors including the Soros Economic Development Fund, AOL founder Steve Case’s Case Foundation, former eBay President Jeff Skoll’s Skoll Foundation, Google Foundation, Cisco and the European Investment Bank.\n\nSadara Ventures was formally launched in 2011 in Ramallah at an event including the then-Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.\n\nSince making Palestine’s first-ever VC investment in Yamsafer, an online accommodation booking platform, in 2012, Sadara has invested in a total of six startups in the Palestinian Territories.\n\nUS President Barack Obama referred to Kaufmann’s partnership with Saed Nashef in his March 2013 speech in Jerusalem.\n\nIn 2002, Kaufmann founded “Tmura - The Israeli Public Service Venture Fund.” Tmura receives donations of equity from Israeli and Israel-related high-tech companies and, upon a liquidity event such as an acquisition or initial public offering, allocates the proceeds to education- and youth-related charities in Israel.\n\nTmura has received options donations from more than 500 companies and has raised over $16.5 million for the causes that it supports.\n\nIn 2014, Kaufmann founded the Palestinian Internship Program (PIP), a US-registered non-profit that arranges work experiences and other professional development activities for highly talented Palestinian graduates from the West Bank and East Jerusalem in the Israeli high-tech sector.\n\nAs of early 2018, PIP has enabled 40 young Palestinian professionals to work at 25 Israel-based companies including Intel, HP Indigo and Thomson Reuters, as well as a number of startups and VC funds.\n\nKaufmann is a member of Breaking the Impasse (BTI), a World Economic Forum (WEF)-backed advocacy group of Palestinian and Israeli businesspeople (founded by Palestinian businessman Munib al-Masri and Israeli high-tech entrepreneur Yossi Vardi) lobbying political leaders to advance the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.\n\nKaufmann has spoken on behalf of BTI at high-profile WEF-sponsored events including at the group's launch event at the Dead Sea, Jordan in 2013 and at Davos, Switzerland in 2014.\n\nIn 1978, Kaufmann and his then-girlfriend (now wife), Lori Banov Kaufmann wrote \"Summer ’79 in France\". Kaufmann then wrote \"Boston Ice Cream Lover’s Guide\", which was published by Addison-Wesley in 1985.\n\nIn 2004, Kaufmann co-founded (with Mark Bernstein) Hundreds of Heads Books to publish a series of books that help people through life’s biggest challenges, based on advice and entertaining experiences collected from hundreds of people across the US who have \"been there, done that\". Their best-selling book \"How to Survive Your Freshman Year\" is in its 5th edition.\n\nKaufmann has written op-ed articles about his professional activities, especially relating to the role Israel can play in promoting Palestinian private sector technology-related enterprise. In 2017, he wrote a feature article in Foreign Affairs entitled, “Start-Up Palestine: How to Spark a West Bank Tech Boom.” He has also published articles in the Times of Israel and Haaretz. When studying a J.D. at Harvard Law School, Kaufmann was an editor of the Harvard Law Review.\n\nHe has spoken at forums including TEDx Rome, StartupGrind Ramallah, Seeds of Peace, American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) and DLD Tel Aviv.\n"}
{"id": "55086457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55086457", "title": "Yuri Gurski", "text": "Yuri Gurski\n\nYuri Gurski (, born 23 January 1983, Minsk, BSSR, USSR) is a Belarusian IT entrepreneur, founder of a number of successful start-ups subsequently acquired by Facebook, Mail.ru Group, Google and Israeli billionaire Teddy Sagi. In 2016, GoalEurope named Gurski \"the most successful IT entrepreneur in Eastern Europe\".\n\nYuri Gurski was born on 23 January 1983 in Minsk.\n\nIn 2000, he graduated from secondary school No. 219 in Minsk. In 2008, he received a diploma in journalism from Belarusian State University. In 2010, he obtained an Executive MBA degree from the IPM Business School under the Kozminsky University program (Warsaw).\n\nHe worked as the CEO of the Piter M LLC (the representative office of the Piter publishing house in Minsk) from September 2003 to December 2009. Since 2006, he has been working in the IT sector. Co-founder and CEO of Viaden Media, CEO of Sport.com. Worked in the Mail.ru Group corporation (Russia) from November 2014 to July 29, 2016.\n\nHe resides in the city of Limassol, Cyprus. Founder of Haxus.com.\n\nYuri Gurski got married on 12 December 2015. He speaks Russian, Belarusian, and English.\n\nIn 2009, Gurski co-founded Viaden Media. The company’s main focus was creation of IT solutions for online casinos and health monitoring applications. In 2011, Viaden Media received the App Store Rewind award. In 2012, Viaden Media was acquired by Israeli billionaire Teddy Sagi.\n\nUnder Gurski’s leadership, Sport.com developed a number of popular mobile applications for sports and fitness.\n\nIn 2014, he became a mentor of the Maps.Me project, which later that year was acquired by the Mail.ru Group corporation. Gurski also joined Mail.ru. In 2016, he held the position of vice president of new product development. He left Mail.ru Group on 29 July 2016. Representatives of Mail.Ru Group stated the conflict of interests as the reason for dismissal. Gurski denies that such a conflict has ever taken place.\n\nHe was a mentor and investor of the MSQRD project (video and photo selfie app), acquired by Facebook on 9 March 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Yuri founded Flo, an AI-powered women’s health platform. In October, 2018 this fast growing FemTech startup received $200 million valuation.\n\nIn 2017, Google bought the AIMATTER start-up owned by Gurski and Yuri Melnichek.\n\nYuri Gurski participated in the preparation of the decree \"On the development of the digital economy\" which creates unprecedented conditions for the development of the IT industry to turn Belarus into an international tech haven. Gurski commented on the prospects of the decree on Belarusian television.\n\nGurski is the owner of the Ideanomix publishing house, and an author of about 30 books on information technology.\n\n"}
