{"id": "27142533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142533", "title": "Ali Mustafayev", "text": "Ali Mustafayev\n\nAli Mustafayev Mustafa oglu () (April 14, 1952 – November 20, 1991) was an Azerbaijani journalist and reporter during the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.\n\nMustafayev was born on April 14, 1952 in Qazakhbeyli village of Qazakh raion of Azerbaijan SSR. In 1969, he completed his secondary education at Dash Salakhly village secondary school. From 1971 through 1973, Mustafayev served in the Soviet Armed Forces. In 1976, he entered Baku State University and graduated in 1981 with a degree in Journalism. After the graduation, he started working for \"News\" program of the Azerbaijani State Television and Radio company. When the Nagorno-Karabakh war started, Mustafayev was assigned to report from the frontlines.\n\nMustafayev was killed along with 22 passengers and crew members in a helicopter which was shot down by Armenian forces near the Qarakend village of Khojavend district in Nagorno-Karabakh, Azerbaijan. There were no survivors of the crash.\n\nAli Mustafayev was buried at a Martyrs' Lane cemetery in Baku. He was posthumously awarded the title of the National Hero of Azerbaijan. Mustafayev was also awarded the title of \"Honored Journalist of the Republic\". A school in Baku, capital of Azerbaijan was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "971278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971278", "title": "Aspic", "text": "Aspic\n\nAspic is a dish in which ingredients are set into a gelatin made from a meat stock or consommé. Non-savory dishes, often made with commercial gelatin mixes without stock or consommé, are usually called jello salads in the United States or gelatin salads elsewhere.\n\nWhen cooled, stock that is made from meat congeals because of the natural gelatin found in the meat. The stock can be clarified with egg whites, and then filled and flavored just before the aspic sets. Almost any type of food can be set into aspics. Most common are meat pieces, fruits, or vegetables. Aspics are usually served on cold plates so that the gel will not melt before being eaten. A meat jelly that includes cream is called a chaud-froid.\n\nAlmost any meat, poultry, or fish can be used to make gelatin. The aspic may need additional gelatin in order to set properly. Veal stock provides a great deal of gelatin; in making stock, veal is often included with other meat for that reason. Fish consommés usually have too little natural gelatin, so the fish stock may be double-cooked or supplemented. Since fish gelatin melts at a lower temperature than gelatins of other meats, fish aspic is more delicate and melts more readily in the mouth.\n\nVegetables and fish stocks need gelatin to maintain a molded shape.\n\nHistorically, meat aspics were made before fruit- and vegetable-flavored aspics or 'jellies' (UK) and 'gelatins' (North America). By the Middle Ages at the latest, cooks had discovered that a thickened meat broth could be made into a jelly. A detailed recipe for aspic is found in \"Le Viandier\", written in or around 1375.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Marie-Antoine Carême created \"chaud froid\" in France. \"Chaud froid\" means \"hot cold\" in French, referring to foods that were prepared hot and served cold. Aspic was used as a \"chaud froid\" sauce in many cold fish and poultry meals. The sauce added moisture and flavor to the food. Carême invented various types of aspic and ways of preparing it.\nAspic, when used to hold meats, prevents them from becoming spoiled. The gelatin keeps out air and bacteria, keeping the cooked meat fresh.\n\nAspic came into prominence in America in the early 20th century. By the 1950s, meat aspic was a popular dinner staple throughout the United States as were other gelatin-based dishes such as tomato aspic. Cooks used to show off aesthetic skills by creating inventive aspics.\n\nAspic can also be referred as \"aspic gelée\" or \"aspic jelly\". Aspic jelly may be colorless (white aspic) or contain various shades of amber. Aspic can be used to protect food from the air, to give food more flavor, or as a decoration.\n\nThere are three types of aspic: delicate, sliceable, and inedible. The delicate aspic is soft. The sliceable aspic must be made in a terrine or in an aspic mold. It is firmer than the delicate aspic. The inedible aspic is never for consumption. It is usually for decoration. Aspic is often used to glaze food pieces in food competitions to make the food glisten and make it more appealing to the eye. Foods dipped in aspic have a lacquered finish for a fancy presentation. Aspic can be cut into various shapes and be used as a garnish for deli meats or pâtés.\n\nPork jelly is an aspic made from low-grade cuts of pig meat, such as trotters, containing a significant proportion of connective tissue. Pork jelly is a popular appetizer and, nowadays, is sometimes prepared in a more modern version using lean meat, with or without pig leftovers which are substituted with store-bought gelatin. It is very popular in Croatia (especially in the northwest where it's called \"hladetina\" or \"hladnetina\"), Serbia (where it is called \"пихтије/pihtije\"), Poland (where it is called \"galareta\"), in Romania and Moldova (\"piftie\", \"răcitură\"), in Estonia (\"sült\"), in Latvia (\"aukstā gaļa\"), in Lithuania (\"šaltiena\"), in Slovakia (\"huspenina\", \"studeno\"), in Hungary (\"kocsonya\"; can also refer to aspic of other meats), in Greece (where it is called \"pichti\"), in Ukraine originally хішкаi(hishkay) or studinats but since 1930's the russian word was forced to be used except in the worldwide diaspora community. In Russia, Belarus, Ukraine (\"kholodets\", \"kholodne\") during Christmas or Easter, in Russia <nowiki>\"kholodets\"</nowiki> is a traditional winter and especially New Years dish which is eaten with mustard, in Vietnam (\"thịt nấu đông\") during Lunar New Year. The meat in pork pies is preserved using pork jelly.\n\nThe preparation of pork jelly includes placing lean pork meat, trotters, rind, ears and snout in a pot of cold water, and letting it cook over a slow fire for three hours. The broth is allowed to cool, while also removing any undesirable fat. Subsequently, white vinegar and the juice of half an orange or lemon can be added to the meat so that it is covered. The entire mixture is then allowed to cool and gel. Bay leaves or chili can be added to the broth for added taste (the Romanian variety is based on garlic and includes no vinegar, orange, lemon, chili, bay leaves, etc.). However, there are many alternate ways of preparing pork jelly, such as the usage of celery, beef and even pig bones. Poultry jellies are made the same way as making pork jelly, but less water is added to compensate for lower natural gelatin content.\n\nPihtije (Serbian Cyrillic: пихтије), pivtija (Macedonian: пивтија), pača (Bulgarian: пача), piftie or răcitură in Romanian is an aspic-like dish, generally made from low-cost pork meat, such as the head, shank and/or hock made into a semi-consistent gelatinous cake-like form. In some varieties, chicken is used instead of pork. Some recipes also include smoked meat.\n\nPihtije is commonly just one component of the traditional meal (or an appetizer), although it can be served as a main dish. It is usually accompanied by cold rakija (strong šljivovica or apricot brandy is common, but quince brandy is sometimes used) and turšija (cold pickled vegetables, usually horse-radish, bell peppers, hot peppers, green tomatoes and cabbage/sauerkraut).\n\nThe recipe calls for the meat to be cleaned, washed and then boiled for a short time, no longer than 5–10 minutes. Then the water is changed, and vegetables and spices are added (usually pepper, bay leaves, onion, carrots, celery). This is cooked until the meat begins to separate from the bones by itself; then, the bones are removed, the meat stock is filtered and the meat and stock are poured into shallow bowls.\n\nGarlic is added, as well as thin slices of carrots or green peppers, or something similar for decoration. It is left to sit in a cold spot, such as a fridge or outside if the weather is cold enough (this is a traditional winter dish). It congeals into jelly and can be cut into cubes (it is often said that good pihtijas are \"cut like glass\"). These cubes can be sprinkled with dried ground red paprika ( aleva paprika ), as desired, before serving.\n\nPihtije is usually cut and served in equal sized cubes.\n\nPihtije are frequently used in slavas and other celebratory occasions with Serbs.\n\nRomanian and Moldovan piftie (răcitură) is usually made with pork offal, boiled with garlic and bay leaves. Piftie has a different method of preparation. Usually the pig's trotters are boiled to make a soup; the trotters are used because they contain a lot more gelatin than any other part of the pig. The mixture is then cooled to become a jelly. Usually garlic is added. Piftie is traditionally served for Epiphany.\n\n\"Jokpyeon\" () is a dish prepared by boiling cow's trotters and/or other cuts with high collagen content, such as cow's head, skin, tail and pig's head in water for a long time, so that the stewing liquid sets to form a jelly-like substance when cooled.\n\nAmong the Newars of Kathmandu Valley in Nepal, buffalo meat jelly--known as \"Ta khaa\" --is a major component of the winter festivity gourmet. It is eaten in combination with fish aspic (\"Sanyaa Khunna\"), which is made from dried fish and buffalo meat stock, soured, and contains a heavy mix of spices and condiments.\n\nIn Russian, Belarusian and Ukrainian cuisine, a meat aspic dish is called \"kholodets\" (Russian: холодец, Belarusian: халадзец, Ukrainian: холодець) derived from the word \"kholod\" meaning \"cold.\" In some parts of Russia it is called \"studen\"' (студень), derived from another root with a similar meaning. The dish is mostly part of winter holiday festive meals, although modern refrigerators allow to cook it all year round, and it is not surprising to see kholodets on a Russian table in summer. However, \"kholodets\" is still considered as a traditional New Year's dish in Russia and is usually eaten with mustard. In Central, Eastern, and Northern Europe, aspic often takes the form of pork jelly, and it is popular around the Christmas and Easter Holidays. A Georgian version is called mujuji (მუჟუჟი). In Poland certain meats, fish and vegetables are set in aspic, creating a dish called \"galareta\".\n\n\"Kholodets\" are usually made by boiling the bones and meat for about 5-8 hours to produce a fatty broth, mixed with salt, pepper and other spices. After boiling, the meat is separated from the bones and minced into small pieces, then returned into the broth and cooled down until solidifying into a jelly.\nThe Croatian version of this dish is called \"hladetina\" (\"hladno\" meaning cold). Variants range from one served in a dish with lot or rather delicate gelatin, to \"tlačenica\" more resembling German \"Sülze\", a kind of head cheese.\n\nIn Slovenia, aspic is known as \"žolca\", and is traditionally served for Easter. The word comes from the German \"Sülze\", which originally means head cheese (otherwise known as \"tlačenka\" in Slovene).\n\nIn Denmark aspic is called \"sky\" and is mainly used as a topping in open sandwiches, it is made from meat juices and gelatin, sometimes with mushrooms in. Sky is almost solely used in the danish open faced sandwiches, smørrebrød, where is it a topping for cold cuts. It is in particular important in Dyrlægens natmad (The Veterinarian's Midnight Snack), where it is used with leverpostej, sliced salt beef and onions. It is also used on top of rullepølse. Sky, with and without mushrooms, is an easy-to-find product in all supermarkets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15369988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15369988", "title": "Axiomatic product development lifecycle", "text": "Axiomatic product development lifecycle\n\nAxiomatic Product Development Lifecycle (APDL) (also known as \nTransdisciplinary System Development Lifecycle (TSDL), and\n) is a systems engineering product development model \nproposed by Bulent Gumus that extends the Axiomatic design (AD) method. APDL covers the whole product lifecycle including early factors that affect the entire cycle such as development testing, input constraints and system components.\n\nAPDL provides an iterative and incremental way for a team of transdisciplinary members to approach holistic product development. A practical outcome includes capturing and managing product design knowledge. The APDL model addresses some weak patterns experienced in previous development models regarding quality of the design, requirements management, change management, project management, and communication between stakeholders. Practicing APDL may reduce development time and project cost.\n\nAPDL adds the Test domain and four new characteristics to Axiomatic design (AD): Input Constraints in the Functional Domain; Systems Components in the Physical Domain; Process Variables tied to System Components instead of Design Parameters; and Customer Needs mapped to Functional Requirements and Input Constraints.\n\nAPDL proposes a V-shaped process to develop the Design Parameters and System Components (detailed design). Start top-down with Process Variables (PV) and Component Test Cases (CTC) to complete the PV, CTC, and Functional Test Cases (FTC); And after build, test the product with a bottom-up approach.\n\nCustomer Needs (CN) are elements that the customer seeks in a product or system.\n\nFunctional Requirements (FR) completely characterize the minimum performance to be met by the design solution, product etc. FR are documented in requirement specifications (RS).\n\nInput Constraints (IC) are included in the functional domain along with the FR. IC are specific to overall design goals and are imposed externally by CN, product users or conditions of use, such as regulations. IC are derived from CN and then revised based on other constraints that the product has to comply with but not mentioned in the Customer Domain.\n\nThe Design Parameters (DP) are the elements of the design solution in the physical domain that are chosen to satisfy the specified FRs. DPs can be conceptual design solutions, subsystems, components, or component attributes.\n\nSystem Components (SC) provide a categorical design solution in the DP, where the categories represent physical parts in the Physical Domain. The SC hierarchy represents the physical system architecture or product tree. The method for categorizing varies. Eppinger portrays general categories as system, subsystem, and component Eppinger (2001). NASA uses system, segment, element, subsystem, assembly, subassembly, and part (NASA, 1995).\n\nSC makes it possible to perform Design Structure Matrixes (DSM), change management, component-based cost management and impact analysis, and provides framework for capturing structural information and requirement traceability.\n\nProcess Variables (PV) identify and describe the controls and processes to produce SC.\n\nA functional test consists of a set of Functional Test Cases (FTC). FTC are system tests used to verify that FR are satisfied by the system. Black-box testing is the software analog to FTC. At the end of the system development, a functional test verifies that the requirements of the system are met.\n\nComponent Test Cases (CTC) are a physical analog to White-box testing. CTC verify that components satisfy the allocated FRs and ICs. Each system component is tested before it is integrated into the system to make sure that the requirements and constraints allocated to that component are all satisfied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27492898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27492898", "title": "Betaine transporter", "text": "Betaine transporter\n\nProteins of the Betaine/Carnitine/Choline Transporter (BCCT) family are found in Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria and archaea. The BCCT family is a member a large group of secondary transporters, the APC superfamily. Their common functional feature is that they all transport molecules with a quaternary ammonium group [R-N (CH)]. The BCCT family proteins vary in length between 481 and 706 amino acyl residues and possess 12 putative transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). The x-ray structures reveal two 5 TMS repeats with the total number of TMSs being 10. These porters catalyze bidirectional uniport or are energized by pmf-driven or smf-driven proton or sodium ion symport, respectively, or else by substrate:substrate antiport. Some of these permeases exhibit osmosensory and osmoregulatory properties inherent to their polypeptide chains.\n\nThe structures of the sodium-independent carnitine/butyrobetaine antiporter CaiT from \"Proteus mirabilis\" (PmCaiT) () and from \"E. coli\" (EcCaiT)() were determined.\n\nMost members of the BCCT family are Na- or H-dependent, whereas EcCaiT is a Na- and H-independent substrate:product antiporter. The three-dimensional architecture of CaiT resembles that of the Na-dependent transporters LeuT and BetP, but in CaiT, a methionine sulphur takes the place of the Na to coordinate the substrate in the central transport site, accounting for Na independence. Both CaiT structures (, ) show the fully open, inward-facing conformation, and thus complete the set of functional states that describe the alternating access mechanism. EcCaiT (, ) contains two bound butyrobetaine substrate molecules, one in the central transport site, the other in an extracellular binding pocket. In the structure of PmCaiT, a tryptophan side chain occupies the transport site, and access to the extracellular site is blocked. Binding of both substrates to CaiT reconstituted into proteoliposomes is cooperative, with Hill coefficients of up to 1.7, indicating that the extracellular site is regulatory. Schulze et al. (2010) proposed a mechanism whereby the occupied regulatory site increases the binding affinity of the transport site and initiates substrate translocation. Glycine betaine transporters have been found to contain a conserved region with four tryptophans in their central region.\n\nMost secondary-active transporters transport their substrates using an electrochemical ion gradient, but the carnitine transporter (CaiT) is an ion-independent, L-carnitine/gamma-butyrobetaine antiporter. Crystal structures of CaiT from \"E. coli\" and \"Proteus mirabilis\" revealed the inverted five-transmembrane-helix repeat similar to that in the amino acid/Na symporter, LeuT. Kalayil et al. (2013) showed that mutations of arginine 262 (R262) made CaiT Na-dependent with increased transport activity in the presence of a membrane potential, in agreement with substrate/Na cotransport. R262 also plays a role in substrate binding by stabilizing the partly unwound TM1' helix.\n\nModeling CaiT from \"P. mirabilis\" in the outward-open and closed states on the corresponding structures of the related symporter BetP revealed alternating orientations of the buried R262 side chain, which mimic sodium binding and unbinding in the Na-coupled substrate symporters. A similar mechanism may be operative in other Na/H-independent transporters, in which a positively charged amino acid replaces the cotransported cation. The oscillation of the R262 side chain in CaiT indicates how a positive charge triggers the change between outward-open and inward-open conformations.\n\nThe generalized transport reactions catalyzed by members of the BCCT family are:\n\nThe mammalian betaine transporter (BGT1; SLC6A12 is predominantly expressed in the liver (hepatocytes). It is also expressed in the kidney where it is regulated by NFAT5 during a response to osmotic stress. Further, BGT1 is also present in the leptomeninges surrounding the brain. Deletion of the BGT1 gene in mice did not appear to have any impact on the tendency to develop epilepsy. This is to be expected considering that BGT1 is expressed at far lower levels than GAT1 and also has lower affinity for GABA. This implies that it is not likely to contribute significantly to the inactivation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA.\n\n"}
{"id": "380532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380532", "title": "Biogen", "text": "Biogen\n\nBiogen Inc. (previously known as Biogen Idec) is an American multinational biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, specializing in the discovery, development, and delivery of therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative, hematologic, and autoimmune diseases to patients worldwide.\n\nBiogen was founded in 1978 in Geneva by several prominent biologists, including Kenneth Murray of the University of Edinburgh, Phillip Allen Sharp of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Walter Gilbert of Harvard (who served as CEO during the start-up phase), Heinz Schaller, University of Heidelberg and Charles Weissmann, University of Zurich (who contributed the first product interferon alpha). Gilbert and Sharp were subsequently honored with Nobel Prizes: Gilbert was recognized in 1980 with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in understanding DNA sequencing, while Sharp received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 for his discovery of split genes.\n\nIn 2003, Biogen merged with San Diego, California-based IDEC Pharmaceuticals (formed in 1985 by Ivor Royston, Howard Birndorf and others) and adopted the name Biogen Idec. After the merger, Biogen Idec became the 3rd largest Biotechnology company in the world. \n\nFollowing shifts in research core areas, the company has since shortened its name, reverting to simply Biogen. Biogen stock is a component of several stock indices such as the S&P 100, S&P 500, S&P 1500, and NASDAQ-100 and the company is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol, BIIB.\n\nIn May 2006, the company announced it would acquire cancer specialist, Conforma Therapeutics for $250 million. Later in the same month, the company announced its intention to acquire Fumapharm AG, consolidating ownership of Fumaderm and BG-12, an oral fumarate, which is being studied for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and psoriasis.\n\nIn January 2007, the company announced it would acquire Syntonix Pharmaceuticals for up to $120 million, gaining Syntonix's lead product for hemophilia B as well as the technology for developing inhalable treatments.\n\nIn February 2013, Bloomberg broke the news that Biogen was planning the pay Elan $3.25 billion for the full rights to Tysabri, used to treat multiple sclerosis.\n\nIn January 2015 the company announced it will acquire Convergence Pharmaceuticals for up to $675 million, with the acquisition aiming to accelerate the development of Convergence's pipeline, in-particular CNV1014802 – a Phase II small molecule sodium channel blocking candidate. In October 2015 the company announced it will lay off 11% of its workforce, effective immediately.\n\nIn May 2016 the company announced that it will spin off its hemophilia drug business (Eloctate and Alprolix) into a public company. In August, the company announced that the spun off company would be called Bioverativ, in order to show heritage with Biogen. The company will trade on the NASDAQ exchange under the ticker symbol BIVV and will look to be spun off in early 2017.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Biogen reported earnings of US$2.539 billion, with an annual revenue of US$12.274 billion, an increase of 7.2% over the previous fiscal cycle. Biogen's shares traded at over $289 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$63 billion in November 2018. The company ranked 245 on the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by revenue.\n\nBiogen has focused its R&D efforts on the discovery and development of treatments for patients with high unmet medical needs in the areas of neurology, hematology and immunology.\n\nInvestigational MS medicines:\n\n\nBiogen has several candidates in Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in neurodegenerative and immunological diseases including MS, Alzheimer's disease, neuropathic pain, spinal muscular atrophy and lupus nephritis:\n\n\nBiogen also has several development agreements in place with Ionis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders.\n\nIn February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis. This joint venture brings Biogen's expertise and capabilities in protein engineering, cell line development, and recombinant biologics manufacturing to position the joint venture so Biogen can participate in the emerging market for biosimilars.\n\nIn early 2014, Biogen entered into an agreement with Eisai, Inc., to jointly develop and commercialize two of their candidates for Alzheimer's disease, which have the potential to reduce Aβ plaques that form in the brains of patients, as well as to slow the formation of new plaques, potentially improving symptoms and suppressing disease progression.\n\nBiogen also has since 2015 an agreement with AGTC for the development of gene therapy for ophthalmologic diseases such as X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) and X-linked Retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), and up to three other genetic diseases. To this aim, Biogen paid AGTC $124 million, including an equity investment of $30 millions, and up to 1,1 billion in future milestones.\n\n"}
{"id": "44757057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44757057", "title": "Chan Kwok-Hung", "text": "Chan Kwok-Hung\n\nChan Kwok-Hung (陳國雄, c. 1963 – 17 December 2014) was a Hong Kong cinematographer. His credits, as director of photography or camera operator, included the 2000 action comedy \"Tokyo Raiders\" and the 2007 action drama \"Invisible Target\". He also received best cinematography nominations at the Hong Kong Film Awards for \"Fly Me to Polaris\" in 2000 and \"Summer Holiday\" in 2001.\n\nChan drowned when a motorised sampan he was in capsized in Sunny Bay off Lantau Island in Hong Kong. He and seven others (who all survived) were on a shoot for the Jackie Chan film \"Skiptrace\".\n\nJust pointing out that this link is wrong! It leads to a different person's (with the same name) page! Please fix. * \n"}
{"id": "15749069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15749069", "title": "Chankiri Tree", "text": "Chankiri Tree\n\nA Chankiri Tree or Killing Tree was a tree in the Cambodian Killing Fields against which children and infants were smashed because their parents were accused of crimes against the Khmer Rouge. It was so the children \"wouldn't grow up and take revenge for their parents' deaths\". Some of the soldiers laughed as they beat the children against the trees, as not laughing could have indicated sympathy, making oneself a target.\n"}
{"id": "6596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6596", "title": "Computer vision", "text": "Computer vision\n\nComputer vision is an interdisciplinary field that deals with how computers can be made to gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos. From the perspective of engineering, it seeks to automate tasks that the human visual system can do.\n\nComputer vision tasks include methods for acquiring, processing, analyzing and understanding digital images, and extraction of high-dimensional data from the real world in order to produce numerical or symbolic information, \"e.g.\", in the forms of decisions. Understanding in this context means the transformation of visual images (the input of the retina) into descriptions of the world that can interface with other thought processes and elicit appropriate action. This image understanding can be seen as the disentangling of symbolic information from image data using models constructed with the aid of geometry, physics, statistics, and learning theory.\n\nAs a scientific discipline, computer vision is concerned with the theory behind artificial systems that extract information from images. The image data can take many forms, such as video sequences, views from multiple cameras, or multi-dimensional data from a medical scanner. As a technological discipline, computer vision seeks to apply its theories and models for the construction of computer vision systems.\n\nSub-domains of computer vision include scene reconstruction, event detection, video tracking, object recognition, 3D pose estimation, learning, indexing, motion estimation, and image restoration.\n\nComputer vision is an interdisciplinary field that deals with how computers can be made to gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos. From the perspective of engineering, it seeks to automate tasks that the human visual system can do. \"Computer vision is concerned with the automatic extraction, analysis and understanding of useful information from a single image or a sequence of images. It involves the development of a theoretical and algorithmic basis to achieve automatic visual understanding.\" As a scientific discipline, computer vision is concerned with the theory behind artificial systems that extract information from images. The image data can take many forms, such as video sequences, views from multiple cameras, or multi-dimensional data from a medical scanner. As a technological discipline, computer vision seeks to apply its theories and models for the construction of computer vision systems.\n\nIn the late 1960s, computer vision began at universities that were pioneering artificial intelligence. It was meant to mimic the human visual system, as a stepping stone to endowing robots with intelligent behavior. In 1966, it was believed that this could be achieved through a summer project, by attaching a camera to a computer and having it \"describe what it saw\".\n\nWhat distinguished computer vision from the prevalent field of digital image processing at that time was a desire to extract three-dimensional structure from images with the goal of achieving full scene understanding. Studies in the 1970s formed the early foundations for many of the computer vision algorithms that exist today, including extraction of edges from images, labeling of lines, non-polyhedral and polyhedral modeling, representation of objects as interconnections of smaller structures, optical flow, and motion estimation.\n\nThe next decade saw studies based on more rigorous mathematical analysis and quantitative aspects of computer vision. These include the concept of scale-space, the inference of shape from various cues such as shading, texture and focus, and contour models known as snakes. Researchers also realized that many of these mathematical concepts could be treated within the same optimization framework as regularization and Markov random fields.\nBy the 1990s, some of the previous research topics became more active than the others. Research in projective 3-D reconstructions led to better understanding of camera calibration. With the advent of optimization methods for camera calibration, it was realized that a lot of the ideas were already explored in bundle adjustment theory from the field of photogrammetry. This led to methods for sparse 3-D reconstructions of scenes from multiple images. Progress was made on the dense stereo correspondence problem and further multi-view stereo techniques. At the same time, variations of graph cut were used to solve image segmentation. This decade also marked the first time statistical learning techniques were used in practice to recognize faces in images (see Eigenface). Toward the end of the 1990s, a significant change came about with the increased interaction between the fields of computer graphics and computer vision. This included image-based rendering, image morphing, view interpolation, panoramic image stitching and early light-field rendering.\n\nRecent work has seen the resurgence of feature-based methods, used in conjunction with machine learning techniques and complex optimization frameworks.\n\nAreas of artificial intelligence deal with autonomous planning or deliberation for robotical systems to navigate through an environment. A detailed understanding of these environments is required to navigate through them. Information about the environment could be provided by a computer vision system, acting as a vision sensor and providing high-level information about the environment and the robot.\n\nArtificial intelligence and computer vision share other topics such as pattern recognition and learning techniques. Consequently, computer vision is sometimes seen as a part of the artificial intelligence field or the computer science field in general.\n\nComputer vision is often considered to be part of information engineering.\n\nSolid-state physics is another field that is closely related to computer vision. Most computer vision systems rely on image sensors, which detect electromagnetic radiation, which is typically in the form of either visible or infra-red light. The sensors are designed using quantum physics. The process by which light interacts with surfaces is explained using physics. Physics explains the behavior of optics which are a core part of most imaging systems. Sophisticated image sensors even require quantum mechanics to provide a complete understanding of the image formation process. Also, various measurement problems in physics can be addressed using computer vision, for example motion in fluids.\n\nA third field which plays an important role is neurobiology, specifically the study of the biological vision system. Over the last century, there has been an extensive study of eyes, neurons, and the brain structures devoted to processing of visual stimuli in both humans and various animals. This has led to a coarse, yet complicated, description of how \"real\" vision systems operate in order to solve certain vision related tasks. These results have led to a subfield within computer vision where artificial systems are designed to mimic the processing and behavior of biological systems, at different levels of complexity. Also, some of the learning-based methods developed within computer vision (\"e.g.\" neural net and deep learning based image and feature analysis and classification) have their background in biology.\n\nSome strands of computer vision research are closely related to the study of biological vision – indeed, just as many strands of AI research are closely tied with research into human consciousness, and the use of stored knowledge to interpret, integrate and utilize visual information. The field of biological vision studies and models the physiological processes behind visual perception in humans and other animals. Computer vision, on the other hand, studies and describes the processes implemented in software and hardware behind artificial vision systems. Interdisciplinary exchange between biological and computer vision has proven fruitful for both fields.\n\nYet another field related to computer vision is signal processing. Many methods for processing of one-variable signals, typically temporal signals, can be extended in a natural way to processing of two-variable signals or multi-variable signals in computer vision. However, because of the specific nature of images there are many methods developed within computer vision which have no counterpart in processing of one-variable signals. Together with the multi-dimensionality of the signal, this defines a subfield in signal processing as a part of computer vision.\n\nBeside the above-mentioned views on computer vision, many of the related research topics can also be studied from a purely mathematical point of view. For example, many methods in computer vision are based on statistics, optimization or geometry. Finally, a significant part of the field is devoted to the implementation aspect of computer vision; how existing methods can be realized in various combinations of software and hardware, or how these methods can be modified in order to gain processing speed without losing too much performance. Computer Vision is also used in Fashion Ecommerce, Inventory Management, Patent Search, Furniture, Beauty Industry as well.\n\nThe fields most closely related to computer vision are image processing, image analysis and machine vision. There is a significant overlap in the range of techniques and applications that these cover. This implies that the basic techniques that are used and developed in these fields are similar, something which can be interpreted as there is only one field with different names. On the other hand, it appears to be necessary for research groups, scientific journals, conferences and companies to present or market themselves as belonging specifically to one of these fields and, hence, various characterizations which distinguish each of the fields from the others have been presented.\n\nComputer graphics produces image data from 3D models, computer vision often produces 3D models from image data . There is also a trend towards a combination of the two disciplines, \"e.g.\", as explored in augmented reality.\n\nThe following characterizations appear relevant but should not be taken as universally accepted:\n\n\nPhotogrammetry also overlaps with computer vision, e.g., stereophotogrammetry vs. computer stereo vision.\n\nApplications range from tasks such as industrial machine vision systems which, say, inspect bottles speeding by on a production line, to research into artificial intelligence and computers or robots that can comprehend the world around them. The computer vision and machine vision fields have significant overlap. Computer vision covers the core technology of automated image analysis which is used in many fields. Machine vision usually refers to a process of combining automated image analysis with other methods and technologies to provide automated inspection and robot guidance in industrial applications. In many computer vision applications, the computers are pre-programmed to solve a particular task, but methods based on learning are now becoming increasingly common. Examples of applications of computer vision include systems for:\n\nOne of the most prominent application fields is medical computer vision, or medical image processing, characterized by the extraction of information from image data to diagnose a patient. An example of this is detection of tumours, arteriosclerosis or other malign changes; measurements of organ dimensions, blood flow, etc. are another example. It also supports medical research by providing new information: \"e.g.\", about the structure of the brain, or about the quality of medical treatments. Applications of computer vision in the medical area also includes enhancement of images interpreted by humans—ultrasonic images or X-ray images for example—to reduce the influence of noise.\n\nA second application area in computer vision is in industry, sometimes called machine vision, where information is extracted for the purpose of supporting a manufacturing process. One example is quality control where details or final products are being automatically inspected in order to find defects. Another example is measurement of position and orientation of details to be picked up by a robot arm. Machine vision is also heavily used in agricultural process to remove undesirable food stuff from bulk material, a process called optical sorting.\n\nMilitary applications are probably one of the largest areas for computer vision. The obvious examples are detection of enemy soldiers or vehicles and missile guidance. More advanced systems for missile guidance send the missile to an area rather than a specific target, and target selection is made when the missile reaches the area based on locally acquired image data. Modern military concepts, such as \"battlefield awareness\", imply that various sensors, including image sensors, provide a rich set of information about a combat scene which can be used to support strategic decisions. In this case, automatic processing of the data is used to reduce complexity and to fuse information from multiple sensors to increase reliability.\nOne of the newer application areas is autonomous vehicles, which include submersibles, land-based vehicles (small robots with wheels, cars or trucks), aerial vehicles, and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV). The level of autonomy ranges from fully autonomous (unmanned) vehicles to vehicles where computer vision based systems support a driver or a pilot in various situations. Fully autonomous vehicles typically use computer vision for navigation, i.e. for knowing where it is, or for producing a map of its environment (SLAM) and for detecting obstacles. It can also be used for detecting certain task specific events, \"e.g.\", a UAV looking for forest fires. Examples of supporting systems are obstacle warning systems in cars, and systems for autonomous landing of aircraft. Several car manufacturers have demonstrated systems for autonomous driving of cars, but this technology has still not reached a level where it can be put on the market. There are ample examples of military autonomous vehicles ranging from advanced missiles, to UAVs for recon missions or missile guidance. Space exploration is already being made with autonomous vehicles using computer vision, \"e.g.\", NASA's Mars Exploration Rover and ESA's ExoMars Rover.\n\nOther application areas include:\n\n\nEach of the application areas described above employ a range of computer vision tasks; more or less well-defined measurement problems or processing problems, which can be solved using a variety of methods. Some examples of typical computer vision tasks are presented below.\n\nComputer vision tasks include methods for acquiring, processing, analyzing and understanding digital images, and extraction of high-dimensional data from the real world in order to produce numerical or symbolic information, \"e.g.\", in the forms of decisions. Understanding in this context means the transformation of visual images (the input of the retina) into descriptions of the world that can interface with other thought processes and elicit appropriate action. This image understanding can be seen as the disentangling of symbolic information from image data using models constructed with the aid of geometry, physics, statistics, and learning theory.\n\nThe classical problem in computer vision, image processing, and machine vision is that of determining whether or not the image data contains some specific object, feature, or activity. Different varieties of the recognition problem are described in the literature:\n\n\nCurrently, the best algorithms for such tasks are based on convolutional neural networks. An illustration of their capabilities is given by the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge; this is a benchmark in object classification and detection, with millions of images and hundreds of object classes. Performance of convolutional neural networks, on the ImageNet tests, is now close to that of humans. The best algorithms still struggle with objects that are small or thin, such as a small ant on a stem of a flower or a person holding a quill in their hand. They also have trouble with images that have been distorted with filters (an increasingly common phenomenon with modern digital cameras). By contrast, those kinds of images rarely trouble humans. Humans, however, tend to have trouble with other issues. For example, they are not good at classifying objects into fine-grained classes, such as the particular breed of dog or species of bird, whereas convolutional neural networks handle this with ease.\n\nSeveral specialized tasks based on recognition exist, such as:\n\n\n\nSeveral tasks relate to motion estimation where an image sequence is processed to produce an estimate of the velocity either at each points in the image or in the 3D scene, or even of the camera that produces the images . Examples of such tasks are:\n\n\nGiven one or (typically) more images of a scene, or a video, scene reconstruction aims at computing a 3D model of the scene. In the simplest case the model can be a set of 3D points. More sophisticated methods produce a complete 3D surface model. The advent of 3D imaging not requiring motion or scanning, and related processing algorithms is enabling rapid advances in this field. Grid-based 3D sensing can be used to acquire 3D images from multiple angles. Algorithms are now available to stitch multiple 3D images together into point clouds and 3D models .\n\nThe aim of image restoration is the removal of noise (sensor noise, motion blur, etc.) from images. The simplest possible approach for noise removal is various types of filters such as low-pass filters or median filters. More sophisticated methods assume a model of how the local image structures look like, a model which distinguishes them from the noise. By first analysing the image data in terms of the local image structures, such as lines or edges, and then controlling the filtering based on local information from the analysis step, a better level of noise removal is usually obtained compared to the simpler approaches.\n\nAn example in this field is inpainting.\n\nThe organization of a computer vision system is highly application dependent. Some systems are stand-alone applications which solve a specific measurement or detection problem, while others constitute a sub-system of a larger design which, for example, also contains sub-systems for control of mechanical actuators, planning, information databases, man-machine interfaces, etc. The specific implementation of a computer vision system also depends on if its functionality is pre-specified or if some part of it can be learned or modified during operation. Many functions are unique to the application. There are, however, typical functions which are found in many computer vision systems.\n\n\nImage-understanding systems (IUS) include three levels of abstraction as follows: Low level includes image primitives such as edges, texture elements, or regions; intermediate level includes boundaries, surfaces and volumes; and high level includes objects, scenes, or events. Many of these requirements are really topics for further research.\n\nThe representational requirements in the designing of IUS for these levels are: representation of prototypical concepts, concept organization, spatial knowledge, temporal knowledge, scaling, and description by comparison and differentiation.\n\nWhile inference refers to the process of deriving new, not explicitly represented facts from currently known facts, control refers to the process that selects which of the many inference, search, and matching techniques should be applied at a particular stage of processing. Inference and control requirements for IUS are: search and hypothesis activation, matching and hypothesis testing, generation and use of expectations, change and focus of attention, certainty and strength of belief, inference and goal satisfaction.\n\nThere are many kinds of computer vision systems, nevertheless all of them contain these basic elements: a power source, at least one image acquisition device (i.e. camera, ccd, etc.), a processor as well as control and communication cables or some kind of wireless interconnection mechanism. In addition, a practical vision system contains software, as well as a display in order to monitor the system. Vision systems for inner spaces, as most industrial ones, contain an illumination system and may be placed in a controlled environment. Furthermore, a completed system includes many accessories like camera supports, cables and connectors.\n\nMost computer vision systems use visible-light cameras passively viewing a scene at frame rates of at most 60 frames per second (usually far slower).\n\nA few computer vision systems use image acquisition hardware with active illumination or something other than visible light or both.\nFor example, a structured-light 3D scanner, a thermographic camera, a hyperspectral imager, radar imaging, a lidar scanner, a magnetic resonance image, a side-scan sonar, a synthetic aperture sonar, or etc.\nSuch hardware captures \"images\" that are then processed often using the same computer vision algorithms used to process visible-light images.\n\nWhile traditional broadcast and consumer video systems operate at a rate of 30 frames per second, advances in digital signal processing and consumer graphics hardware has made high-speed image acquisition, processing, and display possible for real-time systems on the order of hundreds to thousands of frames per second. For applications in robotics, fast, real-time video systems are critically important and often can simplify the processing needed for certain algorithms. When combined with a high-speed projector, fast image acquisition allows 3D measurement and feature tracking to be realised.\n\nEgocentric vision systems are composed of a wearable camera that automatically take pictures from a first-person perspective. \n\nAs of 2016, vision processing units are emerging as a new class of processor, to complement CPUs and graphics processing units (GPUs) in this role.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47820217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47820217", "title": "David Burns (footballer, born 1934)", "text": "David Burns (footballer, born 1934)\n\nDavid Burns (13 March 1934 – 29th November 2010) was a Scottish footballer, who played in the Scottish Football League for Kilmarnock, St Johnstone, Arbroath and East Fife.\n"}
{"id": "48750373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48750373", "title": "Digital autopsy", "text": "Digital autopsy\n\nA digital autopsy is a non-invasive autopsy in which digital imaging technology, such as with Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, is used to develop three-dimensional images for a virtual exploration of a human body.\n\nDigital autopsy, simply, means conducting autopsy in computerized environment by digital tools. The first step of digitizing starts with the medical imaging modalities that provide the raw data images from the deceased. The most common modalities are Computerized Tomography (CT scan) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner. Three dimensional medical visualization is the technical process that provide the digital environment for exploration of the 3D body and conducting the digital autopsy.\n\nThe term cannot be found before 1985 in the literature. However, there are many other similar terms like: Postmortem CT scanning for individual organs, volumetric radiologic scanning, Virtual Autopsy and Virtopsy.\n\nOne of the first documented Digital Autopsy studies was conducted at the department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Mainz, Germany in the year 1980, where in 105 specimens of human stillborn and live-birth infants, ranging in age from gestational week 13 to postnatal month 18 were studied. Since then the arena of 2D CT scan images has gradually evolved to present day technologies of Multi-planar reconstructions (MPR) and real to life high definition 3D rendering. In the year 1998 various aspects of human and animal anatomy and pathology were successfully studied by Digital 3D examination on the ancient mummified specimens at the Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam. Similar studies have also since then been done at the British Museum. The digital 3D analysis of data obtained from CT scanning the mummies has helped in visualization of the faces of some of the mummies, including that of chanters from the Temple of Karnak. This technology has also given vast information about the embalming and burial processes.\nIn the year, 2009 CT scanning and digital analysis of DICOM data was successfully used by the VIFM, Australia during the phase 2 of the DVI process for the Victorian bushfires. All dead bodies and scattered remains were CT scanned in their body bags using specific protocols and analyzed. Digital examination helped not only in separating the presence of non-human remains, but also was useful at the time of autopsy to capture and analyze the identifying features in cases of severe disfiguration.\n\nCurrently digital autopsy is being successfully used in many countries like Switzerland, The United States of America, The United Kingdom, Malaysia, and Japan. Radiologists may call it Post-mortem Computed Tomography (PMCT) that does not provide colourful 3D views. In Switzerland, it is called Virtopsy (virtual autopsy). Pathologists (Forensic pathologists) know this procedure as Digital Autopsy.\n\nIn a forensic autopsy or Post-mortem examination, body of deceased is examined to acquire information on the cause of death inclusive but not limited to manner of death in people dying sudden, unexpected, violent, drug-related, or otherwise suspicious deaths. Digital Autopsy tries to answer the same investigative questions without actual dissection as in a conventional autopsy.\n\nThe main concept of Digital Autopsy came into existence to overcome some problems during conventional autopsies without losing the objectivity of post-mortem examination. The main problems in conventional autopsy are:\n\nDigital Autopsy would be a technical solution for above mentioned problems. Employing medical imaging modalities like CT or MRI scanners is the first step in order to examine the deceased visually without any destructive, contaminating and non-preservative procedures like dissection. Moreover, using these images with software processing in visualization is the second step toward acquiring data from difficult regions from anatomical perspective and dignity of the body. Digital bodies in the system can be examined multiple times and reported not only in text but also in variety of available media (photo, movie, etc.). In addition, quick evaluation of bodies and body parts in massive disasters is available in comparison to time-consuming procedure of conventional autopsy.\n\nHowever, there are few limitations in Digital Autopsy. The main constraint is the data that is provided by medical imaging modalities are based on X-Ray and Magnetic fields (CT and MRI) that limits the view to what can be recorded by these technologies. A very obvious difference is the real colour of internal body organs and their changes in the deceased, in comparison to what is simulated in the visualization software. The novelty of this technological solution has not given enough time for studies on the consistency of reports among different professionals on the same cases. Moreover, there are few articles about validity of Digital Autopsy in action.\n\nComputed tomography and MRI scanning are the most common imaging modalities employed for this Digital Autopsy. Furthermore, CT Angiography has been used to provide the imaging data for analysing the deceased. The work output of these modalities are standard image files (DICOM files). Each image may have a thickness of 5mm, which means after whole body scan (human average height of 175 cm) it would produce 3500 images (slices) of human body. Using volume rendering these two dimensional images are assembled to make a 3D projection of human body. The 3D model is painted through RGBA transfer function to a colourful model. \nAll visualization and image processing features for manipulating and navigating this 3D model make digital tools for conducting a Digital Autopsy. These features enable pathologist to explore the entire body and examine interested regions and organs from different angles. Image processing algorithms help them to virtually remove layers of body tissues like skin, muscle and bones. Moreover, low density objects like air and high density objects like metallic foreign bodies can be marked and viewed in the three dimensional body. For instance, organs with air (inside) like sinuses or intestines can be separated from other parts or any remnants of bullet in body due to gunshot injuries.\n\nThe process starts with registration of the case with all corresponding meta-data in a Digital Autopsy Facility. The best place for these facilities are in neighbourhood of mortuaries because of considerations about security, carriage and body condition. The body would be scanned according to the schedule with proper adjustments for deceased body. It means there are different configuration for emitting the ray in deceased in comparison to live bodies. This step may take 5 – 10 minutes depends on the abilities of scanner. The output is aforementioned DICOM files (around 3500 files for whole body scan) that would be sent for visualization process. The end result is a colourful 3D body that can be explored and examined for positive or negative findings with the digital tools. \nThe process is not finished with 3D exploration. The findings would be reported digitally in a multimedia report. This report includes all textual results accompanied by images and recorded movie of Digital Autopsy during examination. This report is not only for common submission to the court but also to be displayed in the court for attendance.\n\nThere are not many justice systems around the world who have accepted the Digital Autopsy as their legal procedures of forensic investigations. While Switzerland is pioneering in the acceptance, countries like Israel with strong religious background does not accept forensic imaging as a substitute or in conjunction with autopsy report. This might be due to lack of cases and documentation. Some researchers tried to evaluate the reliability of Digital Autopsy in comparison with conventional (standard) autopsy that reveals totally 68% accuracy of Digital Autopsy regarding the pathogenetic mechanisms.\n\nIn UK, the Department of Health is currently considering recommendations for an integrated national cross-sectional autopsy imaging service, based on a regional service provided by mortuary-based imaging centres. Furthermore, Royal College of Radiologists and the Royal College of Pathologists prepared a document to standardize medico-legal post-mortem cross-sectional imaging in adults in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "18947942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18947942", "title": "Dimitris Liantinis", "text": "Dimitris Liantinis\n\nDimitris Liantinis (; Greek: Δημήτρης Λιαντίνης ; born 23 July 1942, disappeared 1 June 1998) was a Greek philosopher. He was Associate Professor at the Department of Pedagogy of the Faculty of Philosophy, Pedagogy and Psychology of the University of Athens, teaching the course \"Philosophy of Education and Teaching of Greek Language and Literature\". He has written nine books. His last and most seminal work \"Gemma\" (\"Γκέμμα\") has been translated into several languages.\n\nA great lover of Ancient Greek culture, he devoted his life in studying and reinterpreting their cultural heritage. He wrote on various philosophical issues, including education, morality and death. He emphasised the need of incorporating the Ancient Greek ideas and morals into the modern Greek education system and also held explicit views on the decline of Western culture.\n\nHe has achieved popularity in Greece because of his strange and unexplained disappearance in the morning of 1 June 1998 at the age of 55 years. It is thought that he committed suicide in 1998 on the mountains of Taygetos. His last university lecture was delivered on 27 May 1998. In his letter to his family he wrote \"I go away by my own will. I disappear standing, strong, and proud.\"\n\nAn online resource (Liantinis.gr) written and managed by his wife Professor Nikolitsa Georgopoulou contains letters to her, manuscripts, un-edited texts and critical comments for his books.\n\nLiantinis was born in the Laconian village of Liantina (Λιαντίνα) as Demetrios Nikolakakos (Νικολακάκος). He later changed his name to Liantinis to honour his village. He graduated in 1966 from the University of Athens curriculum of Philosophy and worked as a teacher. He moved to Munich in 1970 to study the German language, where he remained until 1972 while at the same time teaching at the Greek school of Otto Gesellschaft. In 1977 he completed his PhD thesis (titled \"The Presence of the Greek Spirit in \"Duino Elegies\" by Rainer Maria Rilke\") under the supervision of Evangelos Moutsopoulos. From 1975 to 1988 he was a lecturer and later professor in the National and Kapodestrian University of Athens.\n\nHe was the author of nine books, principally on philosophy and education and has translated Friedrich Nietzsche's \"Ecce Homo\" in the Greek language.\n\nIn 1973 he married philosophy professor Nicolitsa Georgopoulou, with whom he had a daughter, Diotima, who is currently a professor at the faculty of Social Theology of the Theological School of the University of Athens.\n\nLiantinis' system of ideas was greatly influenced by the philosophy of Ancient Greece as well as the ideals of the Romantic movement and the works of Friedrich Nietzsche. He made numerous references to the scientific achievements of his time, especially in the realm of cosmology, and he attempted to formulate a connection between it and questions concerning the existence and nature of God. He wrote extensively about education (παιδεία \"paideia\") which was his own field of work, and some of his writings focus on what he saw as the moral and intellectual decline of modern Greeks as contrasted with their ancestors. To establish his position further, he devotes a part of his work in an effort to define exactly \"what\" the real the value of Ancient Greece was as well as the true world-view that they proposed. He argues against the notion that Ancient Greece, although ahead of its time for most of antiquity and perhaps the Middle Ages, was eventually superseded by the advancements in Renaissance Europe. In contrast, he believed that the Greeks possessed a \"complete\" culture, a kind of super-set for all Western cultures, past and present. As an example, in his book \"Gemma\" he argued that \"The Greeks did not need psychoanalysis because they had Tragedy\". This period of intellectual brilliance was to be short lived and Liantinis wrote that \"it would be a sign of honesty if the Greeks where to stop philosophizing right after Aristotle\" [\"Πολυχρόνιο\" 2005]. In contrast, today, Greeks are completely unknown as \"...for the Europeans [...] we, the 'New-Greeks', are but a faceless bunch, something of a Balko-Turkish Arab. We are the Ortodox [intentionally misspelled] with the Russian-like writing [...] and the domes on our village houses\" [\"Gemma\" 1997].\n\nOn this topic, he often touched upon the highly controversial issue of the alleged superiority of Greek to Jewish culture, the former being expressed through the ancient philosophers and folk mythology and the latter through the great Judaic religions of Judaism, Islam and most importantly Christianity.\n\nDeath was also central to his work and (as he claimed) that of the Ancient Greeks. He denied the notion of Greece as a culture of playful joyfulness and argued that the Greeks had instead presented us with a world of infinite melancholy, an idea that is consistent with that of Nietzsche's whom he greatly admired. Their philosophy was a study of death and their conclusions were absolute and hard to accept since they saw death as a final end, with no afterlife or moral rewards for the life lived on earth. Liadinis adhered to that notion and once again contrasted it to the less heroic view held in the Judaic religions. This could shed new light on his alleged suicide, by potentially infusing it with great moral courage as he ponders on the distance that separates the man who \"honours the natural knowledge that once dead he will vanish [...] and the one who is taught to believe that once dead, he will migrate in some heavenly America\" [\"Τα Ελληνικά\" 1992, p. 126].\n\nLiantinis believed that Romanticism and Classicism are the only \"valid\" world-views that constitute both an artistic style and a way of life. He believed these two to be antithetical in nature, as the former is an expression of pure emotions while the latter of logic. In his view, the poet J. W. Goethe tried to marry the two and his failed experiment was recorded in the , appropriately called \"The Quest for Helen\". There, Faust, representing the romantic hero lies in bed with Helen of Troy only to produce a still-born child. Although the story symbolises the impossibility of a task it was deemed so important that many others, like Greece's national poet Dionysios Solomos, took it upon themselves to complete.\n\nEducation was central to what he saw as the long struggle of humanity to rise above the animal level and into something so elaborate that it could in turn explain the Universe that created it, a view that is consistent with the Anthropic Principle to which he has made reference. Education is the carrier of this monumental effort and contains the living memories of its People in the forms of language and poetry. These views are expressed mainly in \"Homo educandus\" [1984] and \"Τα Ελληνικά\" [1992] (roughly translated as 'The Greek Language'), where he blamed a part of the moral decline of his contemporaries on the shallowness and rigidity with which modern day teachers transmit knowledge, focusing on form rather than content. Instead he argued for a qualitative understanding of literature and poetry as for example in the need to distinguish between the different value levels of various Greek intellectuals, rather than presenting them as the single entity of \"the Great Men of Greek letters\". He also spoke about the great difficulty in understanding and teaching poetry within this rigid framework in which formal explanations are valued over deep understanding of meaning.\n\nHe advocated for a total separation of Church and State, especially in matters of education since he considers Christianity to be antithetical to Greek thought and one must choose one or the other. Following this stance, he warned against the increasing influence of the then Archbishop Christodoulos of Athens for his involvement in Greek politics.\n\nThis is a vast and highly controversial issue. Liantinis thought of Christianity as the main vessel of Jewish culture in the West and to understand his position better we might want to look at medieval Greek history and the Byzantine Empire, when the church, aligned with the Emperors destroyed what remained of Ancient Greek alongside other Pagan religions, often through brutal means.\n\nLiantinis' argument, however, is not historical. He claims that the Greeks were morally superior, as they had the courage to create a morality that reflected the finite nature of existence rather than imposing it as the divine law of an imaginary God who guarantees eternal life in the heavens. \"The sorrowful longing of death, for the Greeks, gave birth to art. Where the fear of death for other people gave birth to religions\" [\"Τα Ελληνικά\" 1992, p. 127]. This harshly realistic view proved hard to maintain and in \"Gemma\" [1997] he writes that \"the Jews cultivated the land of faith. The Greeks cultivated the land of knowledge [...] the Jews were executioners, the Greeks were judges ... that is why the Jews won\". This alleged defeat of Greek culture is featured frequently in his work and is illustrated with a thought experiment found in the same book, where contemporary Europeans are asked about Empedocles, Anaximander, Leucippus and other somewhat lesser known yet important philosophers. He presumes that few if any will answer with conviction, yet the same sample would immediately recognise the biblical figures of Moses, Abraham and Noah. He extends these thoughts to seminal thinkers like Sigmund Freud, Albert Einstein and Karl Marx, the \"giant Jews of science\" as he called them [\"Gemma\" 1997], while contemporary Greeks are totally unable to offer anyone of equivalent importance.\n\nAccording to Liadinis, the notion of death occupied the ancients to such a degree that one could see their whole culture as arising from the radical views they held on the subject. They saw death as an unchanging cosmic law, much like today's notion of entropy, and did not associate whatever afterlife they had conceived with a moral system of reward and punishment (like the ones found in the great Judaic religions). Although individual myths, like that of Sisyphus who was condemned to eternal punishment in the realms of Hades, \"did\" exist, they were largely exceptions to the rule and never developed into a proper system of beliefs about life after death. In one of his lectures, Liantinis says that Homer describes a scene where the hero, before engaging him in battle, says to his opponent: \"the race of men is related to that of leaves\" (\"οἵη περ φύλλων γενεὴ τοίη δὲ καὶ ἀνδρῶν\"), as we momentarily stand fresh on the tree branch, then quickly surrender to the wind and rain. The lyric poet Pindar also questions in his works: \"What are we [men] but dreams of shadows...\" (\"σκιᾶς ὄναρ ἄνθρωπος\"), \"...not even shadows proper\" as Liantinis points out.\n\nThe only form of immortality that Liantinis (and the Greeks according to him) believed in was what he called \"intra-world immortality\" (ενδοκοσμική αθανασία), which comes from the memories a man leaves behind him, through his deeds and life example. This is indeed in accordance to the immense value the ancient Greeks placed on posthumous reputation (υστεροφημία).\n\nOn the same subject, he also emphasised the Greek hero's individualism (opposite to the Eastern dissolution of the self inside the Great Universe) even to the point of choosing his own death. In \"Gemma\", he writes poetically: \"I will die, Death, when I want and not when you want. In this last act, your desire is not going to be realised, it is my desire which will be realised. I fight against your will. I fight your power. I fight all of your entity. I will enter into the earth when I decide, not when you decide.\" [\"Gemma\" 1997].\n\nLiantinis disappeared on 1 June 1998. A taxi driver claimed that he drove the professor on the same day near Sparti (near Taygetos) and that he was wearing a blue shirt and white footwear.\n\nLiantinis had instructed his cousin to reveal to his daughter, after seven years, the location of the crypt where his remains could be found. His cousin did so. In July 2005 human bones were found in the area of the mountain Taygetos; forensic examinations verified that it was the body of Liantinis. No lethal substances were found to determine the cause of death.\n\nSome people believe that Liantinis took his own life as a protest against what he saw as the lack of values in modern Greek society. In his last letter to his daughter he wrote: \"My last act has the meaning of protest for the evil that we, the adults, prepare for the innocent new generations that are coming. We live our life eating their flesh. A very bad evil. My unhappiness for this crime kills me.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7364279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7364279", "title": "Edith Borella", "text": "Edith Borella\n\nEdith Borella (died March 6, 1974) was an American silent film actress of Swiss descent. She starred in films such as the 1913 film \"Through the Neighbor's Window\" with Charlotte Burton which was her debut. Her career only lasted two years between 1913 and 1915 but in that period of time she starred in 46 films. She married popular English-American actor Edward Coxen in 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "32398106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398106", "title": "Estates of Deceased Persons (Forfeiture Rule and Law of Succession) Act 2011", "text": "Estates of Deceased Persons (Forfeiture Rule and Law of Succession) Act 2011\n\nThe Estates of Deceased Persons (Forfeiture Rule and Law of Succession) Act 2011 (c. 7) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom altering the rules on inheritance in England and Wales.\n\nUnder the forfeiture rule of English Law, a person may not inherit from someone whom he or she has unlawfully killed. In 2000 the Court of Appeal used that rule to disinherit not only a murderer but also the murderer’s descendants. The Law Commission published a consultation paper covering the issue in October 2003 followed by a final report on 27 July 2005. Their recommendations became the basis for this Act.\n\nUnder the Act, if a person loses their right to inheritance through the forfeiture rule, or through disclaiming it, that person is to be treated (for purposes of determining inheritance) as having died immediately prior to the testator or the intestate. The Act amends the Administration of Estates Act 1925 and Wills Act 1837 accordingly.\n\nThe Act received its Royal Assent on 12 July 2011, and came into force on 1 February 2012.\n"}
{"id": "40849113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849113", "title": "Geldenhuys v Borman", "text": "Geldenhuys v Borman\n\nIn Geldenhuys v Borman, an important case in the South African law of succession, the testator had executed a total of three wills, each revoking the previous one. For about three years the testator was a patient in Fort England, but he was released at a later stage. At the time the last will was executed, and although the testator was declared incapable of managing his affairs, there was no declaration that the testator was mentally incapable. Geldenhuys approached the court to declare all three wills invalid. The court noted that there is a presumption of competency, so that the onus of proof is on the person alleging incapacity. The court held that Geldenhuys had not discharged this onus, as incapacity to manage one’s affairs is not the same as mental incapacity. The wills were accordingly declared valid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47505665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47505665", "title": "George Biswell", "text": "George Biswell\n\nGeorge William Biswell (1 September 1904 — September 1981) was an English professional footballer. He played for St Albans City and Watford before moving to Charlton Athletic, where he spent the majority of his career. He also played for Chelsea between his two spells with 'The Addicks'.\n\nBiswell began his career as an amateur footballer at St Albans City and left after a short time to join Watford, before turning professional with Charlton Athletic. He stayed with the London club until January 1928, when he made the journey across the capital to sign for Chelsea.\n\nMaking his debut for the Blues in a 1–0 win against Clapton Orient, Biswell went on to play a further four games in his first season, scoring on 5 May 1928 when Barnsley overcame the Pensioners 2–1 at Stamford Bridge. The forward started the 1928–29 season brightly, netting two goals in as many games as the Blues beat Swansea Town and Bradford Park Avenue, respectively. Biswell then notched a brace in a 3–0 defeat of Nottingham Forest on 29 September 1928, not scoring again until almost two months later on 24 November 1928, when Chelsea drew 3–3 at home with Port Vale. He finished the season with 8 goals in 19 appearances across all competitions after scoring his final goal - and the winner - for the club against Southampton on 9 March 1929. He only appeared once for Chelsea in the 1929–30 season, in a 1–0 defeat at Cardiff City at the end of the year, before returning to Charlton Athletic.\n"}
{"id": "8139076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8139076", "title": "Germ line development", "text": "Germ line development\n\nThe cells that give rise to the gametes are often set aside during embryonic cleavage. During development, these cells will differentiate into primordial germ cells, migrate to the location of the gonad, and form the germ line of the animal.\n\nCleavage in most animals segregates cells containing germ plasm from other cells. The germ plasm effectively turns off gene expression to render the genome of the cell inert. Cells expressing germ plasm become primordial germ cells (PGCs) which will then give rise to the gametes. The germ line development in mammals, on the other hand, occurs by induction and not by an endogenous germ plasm.\n\nGerm plasm has been studied in detail in Drosophila. The posterior pole of the embryo contains necessary materials for the fertility of the fly. This cytoplasm, pole plasm, contains specialized materials called polar granules and the pole cells are the precursors to primordial germ cells.\n\nPole plasm is organized by and contains the proteins and mRNA of the posterior group genes (such as oskar, nanos gene, Tudor, vasa, and Valois). These genes play a role in germ line development to localize nanos mRNA to the posterior and localize germ cell determinants. Drosophila progeny with mutations in these genes fail to produce pole cells and are thus sterile, giving these mutations the name 'grandchildless'. The genes Oskar, nanos and germ cell-less (gcl) have important roles. Oskar is sufficient to recruit the other genes to form functional germ plasm. Nanos is required to prevent mitosis and somatic differentiation and for the pole cells to migrate to function as PGCs (see next section). Gcl is necessary (but not sufficient) for pole cell formation. In addition to these genes, Pgc polar granule component blocks phosphorylation and consequently activation of RNA polymerase II and shuts down transcription.\n\nSimilar germ plasm has been identified in Amphibians in the polar cytoplasm at the vegetal pole. This cytoplasm moves to the bottom of the blastocoel and eventually ends up as its own subset of endodermal cells. These cells eventually become PGCs. The presence of homologs of nanos and vasa also implicate this germ plasm as germ-determining.\n\nThe first phase of migration in Drosophila occurs when the pole cells move passively and infold into the midgut invagination. Active migration occurs through repellents and attractants. The expression of wunen in the endoderm repels the PGCs out. The expression of columbus and hedgehog attracts the PGCs to the mesodermal precursors of the gonad. Nanos is required during migration. Regardless of PGC injection site, PGCs are able to correctly migrate to their target sites.\n\nIn zebrafish, the PGCs express two CXCR4 transmembrane receptor proteins. The signaling system involving this protein and its ligand, Sdf1, is necessary and sufficient to direct PGC migration in fish.\n\nIn frogs, the PGCs migrate along the mesentery to the gonadal mesoderm facilitated by orientated extracellular matrix with fibronectin. There is also evidence for the CXCR4/Sdf1 system in frogs.\n\nIn birds, the PGCs arise from the epiblast and migrate to anteriorly of the primitive streak to the germinal ridge. From there, they use blood vessels to find their way to the gonad. It is possible that the CXCR4/Sdf1 system is used.\n\nIn the mouse, primordial germ cells (PGCs) arise in the posterior primitive streak of the embryo and start to migrate around 6.25 days after conception. PGCs start to migrate to the embryonic endoderm and then to the hindgut and finally towards the future genital ridges where the somatic gonadal precursors reside. This migration requires a series of attractant and repellent cues as well as a number of adhesion molecules such as E-cadherin and β1-Integrin to guide the migration of PGCs. Around 10 days post conception; the PGCs occupy the genital ridge where they begin to lose their motility and polarized shape.\n\nMammalian PGCs are specified by signalling between cells (induction), rather than by the segregation of germ plasm as the embryo divides. In mice, PGCs originate from the proximal epiblast, close to the extra-embryonic ectoderm (ExE), of the post-implantation embryo as early as embryonic day 6.5. By E7.5 a founding population of approximately 40 PGCs are generated in this region of the epiblast in the developing mouse embryo. The epiblast, however, also give rise to somatic cell lineages that make up the embryo proper; including the endoderm, ectoderm and mesoderm. The specification of primordial germ cells in mammals is mainly attributed to the downstream functions of two signaling pathways; the BMP signaling pathway and the canonical WNT/β-catenin pathway.\n\nBone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) is released by the extra-embryonic ectoderm (ExE) at embryonic day 5.5 to 5.75 directly adjacent to the epiblast and causes the region of the epiblast nearest to the ExE to express Blimp1 and Prdm4 in a dose-dependent manner. This is evident as the number of PGCs forming in the epiblast decreases in proportion to the loss of BMP4 alleles. BMP4 acts through its downstream intercellular transcription factors SMAD1 and SMAD5. During approximately the same time, WNT3 starts to be expressed in the posterior visceral endoderm of the epiblast. WNT3 signalling has been shown to be essential in order for the epiblast to acquire responsiveness to the BMP4 signal from the ExE. WNT3 mutants fail to establish a primordial germ cell population, but this can be restored with exogenous WNT activity. The WNT3/β-catenin signalling pathway is essential for the expression of the transcription factor T (Brachyury), a transcription factor that is was previously characterized somatic and mesoderm specific genes. T was recently found to be both necessary and sufficient to induce the expression of the known PGC specification genes Blimp1 and Prdm4. The induction of Transcription Factor T was seen 12 hours after BMP/WNT signaling, as opposed to the 24 to 36 hours it took for Blimp1 and Prdm4 genes to be expressed. Transcription factor T acts upstream of BLIMP1 and PRDM4 in PGC specification by binding to the genes respective enhancer elements. It is important to note that while T can activate the expression of Blimp1 and Prdm4 in the absence of both BMP4 and WNT3, pre-exposure of PGC progenitors to WNTs (without BMP4) prevents T from activating these genes. Details on how BMP4 prevents T from inducing mesodermal genes, and only activate PGC specification genes, remain unclear.\n\nExpression of Blimp1 is the earliest known marker of PGC specification. A mutation in the Blimp1 gene results in the formation of PGC-like cells at embryonic day 8.5 that closely resemble their neighbouring somatic cells. A central role of Blimp 1 is the induction of Tcfap2c, a helix-span helix transcription factor. Tcfap2c mutants exhibited an early loss of primordial germ cells. Tcfap2c is thought to repress somatic gene expression, including the mesodermal marker Hoxb1. So, Blimp1, Tcfap2c and Prdm4 together are able to activate and repress the transcription of all the necessary genes to regulate PGC specification. Mutation of Prdm4 results in the formation of PGCs that are lost by embryonic day 11.5. The loss of PGCs in the Prdm4 mutant is due to failure in global erasure of histone 3 methylation patterns. Blimp1 and Prdm4 also elicit another epigenetic event that causes global DNA demethylation.\n\nOther notable genes positively regulated by Blimp1 and Prdm4 are: Sox2, Nanos3, Nanog, Stella and Fragilis. At the same time, Blimp1 and Prdm4 also repress the transcription of programs that drive somatic differentiation by inhibiting transcription of the Hox family genes. In this way, Blimp1 and Prdm4 drive PGC specification by promoting germ line development and potential pluripotency transcriptional programs while also keeping the cells from taking on a somatic fate.\n\nWith the vast knowledge about in-vivo PGC specification collected over the last few decades, several attempts to generate in-vitro PGCs from post-implantation epiblast were made. Various groups were able to successfully generate PGCs, cultured in the presences of BMP4 and various cytokines. The efficiency of this process was later enhanced by the addition of stem cell factor (SCF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and BMP8B. PGCs generated using this method can be transplanted to give viable gametes and offspring in vivo. PGCs can also be generated from naïve embryonic stem cells (ESCs) that are cultured for two days in the presence of FGF and Activin-A to adopt an epiblast-like state. These cells are then cultured with BMP4, BMP8B, EGF, LIF and SCF and various cytokines for four more days. These in-vitro generated PGCs can also develop into viable gametes and offspring.\n\nPrior to their occupation of the genital ridge, there is no known difference between XX and XY PGCs. However, once migration is complete, male and female PGCs begin to differentiate differently.\n\nMale PGCs become known as gonocytes once they cease migration and undergo mitosis. The term gonocyte is generally used to describe all stages post PGC until the gonocytes differentiate into spermatogonia. Anatomically, gonocytes can be identified as large, euchromatic cells that often have two nucleoli in the nucleus.\n\nIn the male genital ridge, transient Sry expression causes supporting cells to differentiate into Sertoli cells which then act as the organizing center for testis differentiation. Point mutations or deletions in the human or mouse Sry coding region can lead to female development in XY individuals. Sertoli cells also act to prevent gonocytes from differentiating prematurely. They produce the enzyme CYP26B1 to counteract surrounding retinoic acid. Retinoic acid acts as a signal to the gonocytes to enter meiosis. The gonocyte and Sertoli cells have been shown to form gap and desmosomelike junctions as well as adherins junctions composed of cadherins and connexins. To differentiate into spermatogonia, the gonocytes must lose their junctions to Sertoli cells and become migratory once again. They migrate to the basement membrane of the seminiferous cord and differentiate.\n\nIn the gonads, the germ cells undergo either spermatogenesis or oogenesis depending on whether the sex is male or female respectively.\n\nMitotic germ stem cells, spermatogonia, divide by mitosis to produce spermatocytes committed to meiosis. The spermatocytes divide by meiosis to form spermatids. The post-meiotic spermatids differentiate through spermiogenesis to become mature and functional spermatozoa. Spermatogenic cells at different stages of development in the mouse have a frequency of mutation that is 5 to 10-fold lower than the mutation frequency in somatic cells.\n\nMitotic germ stem cells, oogonia, divide by mitosis to produce primary oocytes committed to meiosis. Unlike sperm production, oocyte production is not continuous. These primary oocytes begin meiosis but pause in diplotene of meiosis I while in the embryo. All of the oogonia and many primary oocytes die before birth. After puberty in primates, small groups of oocytes and follicles prepare for ovulation by advancing to metaphase II. Only after fertilization is meiosis completed. Meiosis is asymmetric producing polar bodies and oocytes with large amounts of material for embryonic development. The mutation frequency of female mouse germ line cells, like male germ line cells, is also lower than that of somatic cells. Low germ line mutation frequency appears to be due, in part, to elevated levels of DNA repair enzymes that remove potentially mutagenic DNA damages. Enhanced genetic integrity may be a fundamental characteristic of germ line development.\n\n"}
{"id": "897486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897486", "title": "God is dead", "text": "God is dead\n\n\"God is Dead\" (German: ; also known as the Death of God) is a widely quoted statement by German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. Nietzsche used the phrase in a figurative sense, to express the idea that the Enlightenment had \"killed\" the possibility of belief in God or any gods having ever existed. Others, such as proponents of the strongest form of the Death of God theology have used the phrase in a literal sense, meaning that the Christian God who existed at one point, has ceased to exist. \n\nThe phrase first appeared in Nietzsche's 1882 collection \"The Gay Science\" (, also translated as \"The Joyful Pursuit of Knowledge and Understanding\"). However, it is most famously associated with Nietzsche's \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" (), which is most responsible for making the phrase popular. Other philosophers had previously discussed the concept, \nincluding Philipp Mainländer and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\nDiscourses of a \"death of God\" in German culture appear as early as the 17th century and originally referred to Lutheran theories of atonement. The phrase \"God is dead\" appears in the hymn \"Ein Trauriger Grabgesang\" (\"A mournful dirge) by Johann von Rist. Contemporary historians believe that 19th-century German idealist philosophers, especially those associated with Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, are responsible for removing the specifically Christian resonance of the phrase and associating it with secular philosophical and sociological theories.\n\nAlthough the statement and its meaning are attributed to Nietzsche, Hegel had discussed the concept of the death of God, in his \"Phenomenology of Spirit\" where he considers the death of God to \"Not be seen as anything but an easily recognized part of the usual Christian cycle of redemption\". Later on Hegel writes about the great pain of knowing that God is dead \"The pure concept, however, or infinity, as the abyss of nothingness in which all being sinks, must characterize the infinite pain, which previously was only in culture historically and as the feeling on which rests modern religion, the feeling that God Himself is dead, (the feeling which was uttered by Pascal, though only empirically, in his saying: Nature is such that it marks everywhere, both in and outside of man, a lost God), purely as a phase, but also as no more than just a phase, of the highest idea.\"\n\nHegel's student Richard Rothe, in his 1837 theological text \"Die Anfänge der christlichen Kirche und ihrer Verfassung\", appears to be one of the first philosophers to associate the idea of a death of God with the sociological theory of secularization.\n\nBefore Nietzsche, the concept was popularized in philosophy by the German philosopher Philipp Mainländer.\n\nIt was while reading Mainländer, that Nietzsche explicitly writes to have parted ways with Schopenhauer. In Mainländer’s more than 200 pages long criticism of Schopenhauer’s metaphysics, he argues against one cosmic unity behind the world, and champions a real multiplicity of wills struggling with each other for existence. Yet, the interconnection and the unitary movement of the world, which are the reasons that lead philosophers to pantheism, are undeniable. They do indeed lead to a unity, but this may not be at the expense of a unity \"in\" the world that undermines the empirical reality of the world. It is therefore declared to be dead.\n\nThe idea is stated in \"The Madman\" as follows:\n\nBut the best known passage is at the end of part 2 of \"Zarathustra's Prolog\", where after beginning his allegorical journey Zarathustra encounters an aged ascetic who expresses misanthropy and love of God:\n\nNietzsche used the phrase to sum up the effect and consequence that the Age of Enlightenment had had on the centrality of the concept of God within Western European civilization, which had been essentially Christian in character since the later Roman Empire. The Enlightenment had brought about the triumph of scientific rationality over sacred revelation; the rise of philosophical materialism and Naturalism that to all intents and purposes had dispensed with the belief in or role of God in human affairs and the destiny of the world.\n\nNietzsche recognized the crisis that this \"Death of God\" represented for existing moral assumptions in Europe as they existed within the context of traditional Christian belief. \"When one gives up the Christian faith, one pulls the right to Christian morality out from under one's feet. This morality is by no means self-evident... By breaking one main concept out of Christianity, the faith in God, one breaks the whole: nothing necessary remains in one's hands.\" This is why in \"The Madman\", a passage which primarily addresses nontheists (especially atheists), the problem is to retain any system of values in the absence of a divine order.\n\nThe Enlightenment's conclusion of the \"Death of God\" gave rise to the proposition that humans - and Western Civilization as a whole - could no longer believe in a divinely ordained moral order. This death of God will lead, Nietzsche said, not only to the rejection of a belief of cosmic or physical order but also to a rejection of absolute values themselves — to the rejection of belief in an objective and universal moral law, binding upon all individuals. In this manner, the loss of an absolute basis for morality leads to nihilism. This nihilism is that for which Nietzsche worked to find a solution by re-evaluating the foundations of human values.\n\nNietzsche believed that the majority of people did not recognize this death out of the deepest-seated fear or angst. Therefore, when the death did begin to become widely acknowledged, people would despair and nihilism would become rampant.\n\nMartin Heidegger understood this part of Nietzsche's philosophy by looking at it as death of metaphysics. In his view, Nietzsche's words can only be understood as referring not to a particular theological or anthropological view but rather to the end of philosophy itself. Philosophy has, in Heidegger's words, reached its maximum potential as metaphysics and Nietzsche's words warn of its demise and that of any metaphysical world view. If metaphysics is dead, Heidegger warns, that is because from its inception that was its fate.\n\nPaul Tillich as well as Richard Schacht were influenced by the writings of Nietzsche and especially of his phrase \"God is dead.\"\n\nWilliam Hamilton wrote the following about Nietzsche's view: \n\nNietzsche believed there could be positive possibilities for humans without God. Relinquishing the belief in God opens the way for human creative abilities to fully develop. The Christian God, he wrote, would no longer stand in the way, so human beings might stop turning their eyes toward a supernatural realm and begin to acknowledge the value of this world.\n\nNietzsche uses the metaphor of an open sea, which can be both exhilarating and terrifying. The people who eventually learn to create their lives anew will represent a new stage in human existence, the — i.e. the personal archetype who, through the conquest of their own nihilism, themselves become a sort of mythical hero. The \"death of God\" is the motivation for Nietzsche's last (uncompleted) philosophical project, the \"revaluation of all values\".\n\nAlthough Nietzsche puts the statement \"God is Dead\" into the mouth of a \"madman\" in \"The Gay Science\", he also uses the phrase in his own voice in sections 108 and 343 of the same book. In the madman's passage, the man is described as running through a marketplace shouting, \"I seek God! I seek God!\" He arouses some amusement; no one takes him seriously. Maybe he took an ocean voyage? Lost his way like a little child? Maybe he's afraid of us (non-believers) and is hiding? — much laughter. Frustrated, the madman smashes his lantern on the ground, crying out that \"God is dead, and we have killed him, you and I!\" \"But I have come too soon,\" he immediately realizes, as his detractors of a minute before stare in astonishment: people cannot yet see that they have killed God. He goes on to say:\n\nEarlier in the book (section 108), Nietzsche wrote \"God is Dead; but given the way of men, there may still be caves for thousands of years in which his shadow will be shown. And we — we still have to vanquish his shadow, too.\" The protagonist in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" also speaks the words, commenting to himself after visiting a hermit who, every day, sings songs and lives to glorify his god as noted above.\n\nWhat is more, Zarathustra later refers not only to the death of God, but states: \"Dead are all the Gods\". It is not just one morality that has died, but all of them, to be replaced by the life of the , the new man:\n\nThe cover of the April 8, 1966 edition of \"Time\" and the accompanying article concerned a movement in American theology that arose in the 1960s known as the \"death of God\". Although theologians since Nietzsche had occasionally used the phrase \"God is dead\" to reflect increasing unbelief in God, the concept rose to prominence in the late 1950s and 1960s, before waning again. The main proponents of this theology included the Christian theologians Gabriel Vahanian, Paul van Buren, William Hamilton, John Robinson, Thomas J. J. Altizer and John D. Caputo, and the rabbi Richard L. Rubenstein.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18071101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18071101", "title": "Gravehopping", "text": "Gravehopping\n\nGravehopping (Slovene: \"Odgrobadogroba\") is a 2005 Slovenian film directed by Jan Cvitkovič. It was Slovenia's submission to the 79th Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\n"}
{"id": "70076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70076", "title": "Hel (location)", "text": "Hel (location)\n\nIn Norse mythology, Hel (occasionally Helheim in secondary sources), the location, shares a name with Hel, a being who rules over the location. In late Icelandic sources, varying descriptions of Hel are given and various figures are described as being buried with items that will facilitate their journey to Hel after their death. In the \"Poetic Edda\", Brynhildr's trip to Hel after her death is described and Odin, while alive, also visits Hel upon his horse Sleipnir. In Snorri Sturluson's \"Prose Edda\", Baldr goes to Hel on his death and subsequently Hermóðr uses Sleipnir to attempt to retrieve him.\n\nThe Old Norse feminine proper noun \"Hel\" is identical to the name of the entity that presides over the realm, Old Norse \"Hel\". The word has cognates in all branches of the Germanic languages, including Old English \"hell\" (and thus Modern English \"hell\"), Old Frisian \"helle\", Old Saxon \"hellia\", Old High German \"hella\", and Gothic \"halja\". All forms ultimately derive from the reconstructed Proto-Germanic feminine noun *\"xaljō\" ('concealed place, the underworld'). In turn, the Proto-Germanic form derives from the o-grade form of the Proto-Indo-European root *\"kel-\", *\"kol\"-: 'to cover, conceal, save'.\n\nThe term is etymologically related to Modern English \"hall\" and therefore also \"Valhalla\", an afterlife 'hall of the slain' in Norse Mythology. \"Hall\" and its numerous Germanic cognates derive from Proto-Germanic *\"hallō\" 'covered place, hall', from Proto-Indo-European *\"kol-\".\n\nRelated early Germanic terms and concepts include Proto-Germanic *\"xalja-rūnō(n)\", a feminine compound noun, and *\"xalja-wītjan\", a neutral compound noun. This form is reconstructed from the Latinized Gothic plural noun *\"haliurunnae\" (attested by Jordanes; according to philologist Vladimir Orel, meaning 'witches'), Old English \"helle-rúne\" ('sorceress, necromancer', according to Orel), and Old High German \"helli-rūna\" 'magic'. The compound is composed of two elements: *\"xaljō\" (*\"haljō\") and *\"rūnō\", the Proto-Germanic precursor to Modern English \"rune\". The second element in the Gothic \"haliurunnae\" may however instead be an agent noun from the verb \"rinnan\" (\"to run, go\"), which would make its literal meaning \"one who travels to the netherworld\".\n\nProto-Germanic *\"xalja-wītjan\" (or *\"halja-wītjan\") is reconstructed from Old Norse \"hel-víti\" 'hell', Old English \"helle-wíte\" 'hell-torment, hell', Old Saxon \"helli-wīti\" 'hell', and the Middle High German feminine noun \"helle-wīze\". The compound is a compound of *\"xaljō\" (discussed above) and *\"wītjan\" (reconstructed from forms such as Old English \"witt\" 'right mind, wits', Old Saxon \"gewit\" 'understanding', and Gothic \"un-witi\" 'foolishness, understanding').\n\nIn reference to Hel, in the poem \"Völuspá\", a völva states that Hel will play an important role in Ragnarök. The Völva states that a crowing \"sooty-red cock from the halls of Hel\" is one of three cocks that will signal one of the beginning events of Ragnarök. The other two are Fjalar in Jotunheim and Gullunkambi in Valhalla.\n\nIn \"Grímnismál\" stanza 31, Hel is listed as existing beneath one of the three roots of the world tree Yggdrasil. One of the other two leads to the frost jötnar and the third to Mankind. In \"Guðrúnarkviða I\", as Herborg tells of her grief in having prepared funeral arrangements for various members of her family, her children and her husbands, described it as \"arranging their journey to Hel\".\n\nIn the short poem \"Helreið Brynhildar\", Hel is directly referenced as a location in the title, translating to \"Brynhild's Hel-Ride\". While riding along a road on the border of Hel in a lavish cart (the cart her corpse was burnt within), Brynhildr encounters a dead giantess at a burial mound belonging to her. This results in a heated exchange, during which Brynhildr tells of her life.\n\nIn \"Baldrs draumar\", Odin rides to the edge of Hel to investigate nightmares that Baldr has had. He uses a spell to bring to life the corpse of a Völva. Odin introduces himself under a false name and pretense and asks for information from the völva relating to Baldr's dreams. The völva reluctantly proceeds to produce prophecies regarding the events of Ragnarök.\n\nThe poem gives some information regarding the geographic location of Hel in parallel to the description in the Prose Edda, which may be related to the fact that it was not included in the Codex Regius but is instead a later addition. Niflhel is mentioned as being just outside Hel. The bloody Garmr makes an appearance, encountering Odin on Odin's ride to Hel. Odin continues down the road and approaches Hel, which is described as the \"high hall of Hel.\" There he proceeds to the grave of the Völva near the eastern doors where the descriptions of Hel end.\n\nIn the \"Prose Edda\", more detailed information is given about the location, including a detailed account of a venture to the region after the death of the god Baldr. Snorri's descriptions of Hel in the \"Prose Edda\" are not corroborated outside \"Baldrs draumar\", which does not appear in the original Codex Regius but is a later addition often included with modern editions of the \"Poetic Edda\".\n\nIn the book \"Gylfaginning\", Hel is introduced in chapter 3 as a location where \"evil men\" go upon death, and into Niflhel. The chapter further details that Hel is in the ninth of the Nine Worlds.\n\nIn chapter 34, Hel, the being is introduced. Snorri writes that Hel was cast down into Hel by Odin who \"made her ruler over Nine Worlds\". Snorri further writes that there Hel is located in Niflheim. Here it is related that she could give out lodging and items to those sent to her that have died of disease or old age. A very large dwelling is described as existing in Niflheim owned by Hel with huge walls and gates. The hall is called - or inside of this huge hall there is a hall belonging to Hel called - Éljúðnir. Within this hall, Hel is described as having a servant, a slave and various possessions.\n\nAt the end of chapter 49, the death of Baldr and Nanna is described. Hermóðr, described as Baldr's brother in this source, sets out for Hel on horseback to retrieve the deceased Baldr. To enter Hel, Hermóðr rides for nine nights through \"valleys so deep and dark that he saw nothing\" until he arrives at the river Gjöll (\"Noisy\") and the Gjöll bridge. The bridge is described as having a roof made of shining gold. Hermóðr then proceeds to cross it. Hermóðr encounters Móðguð, who is the guard of the bridge (\"Furious Battler\").\n\nMóðguð speaks to Hermóðr and comments that the bridge echoes beneath him more than the entire party of five people who had just passed. This is a reference to Baldr, Nanna and those that were burnt in their funeral pyre passing over the bridge on death. Móðguð also says that the dead in Hel appear as a different color than the living and tells him that to get to Hel he must go \"down and to the North\" where he would find the Road to Hel.\n\nContinuing along the Road to Hel, Hermóðr encounters the Gates of Hel. Hermóðr remounts, spurs Sleipnir, and the two bound far over it. Hermóðr proceeds further beyond the gates for some distance before arriving at the hall, dismounting and entering. There Hermóðr sees Baldr sitting in a \"seat of honor\" and Hermóðr spends a night in Hel. The following day, Hermóðr presses Hel, the being, to allow Baldr to leave. Hel gives him an offer and then Baldr leads him out of the hall. Baldr then gives Hermóðr various gifts from Nanna and himself to bring from Hel to the living Æsir. Hermóðr then retraces his path back to the land of the living. Hel's offer fails and in chapter 50, Loki is blamed for Baldr remaining in Hel.\n\nIn chapter 53, Hel is mentioned a final time in the \"Prose Edda\". Here, Höðr and Baldr are mentioned as returning from Hel in a post-Ragnarök world:\n\nBook I of \"Gesta Danorum\" contains an account of what has often been interpreted as a trip to Hel. While having dinner, King Hadingus is visited by a woman bearing stalks of hemlock who asks him if he knows where such fresh herbs grow in winter. Hadingus wants to know; so the woman muffles him with her cloak, pulls him into the ground, and they vanish. Saxo reasons that the gods wished for Hadingus to visit in the flesh where he will go when he dies.\n\nThe two penetrate a dark and misty cloud, and then continue along a path worn from heavy use over the ages. The two see men wearing rich-looking robes, and nobles wearing purple. Passing them, they finally reach sunny regions where the herbs the woman presented Hadingus grow.\n\nHadingus and the woman continue until they arrived at a river of blue-black water that is fast-moving, full of rapids, and filled with various weapons. They cross the bridge, and see two \"strongly-matched\" armies meeting. Hadingus asks the woman about their identity, and she responds that they are men that have met their death by sword, and that they present an everlasting display of their destruction while attempting to equal the activity of their past lives.\n\nMoving forward, the two encounter a wall that they cannot find a way over. The woman attempts to leap over it, but despite her slender and wrinkled body, cannot. The woman removes the head of a cock that she was carrying and throws it over the wall. The bird immediately crows; it has returned to life. Hadingus returns to his wife, and foils a threat by pirates.\n\nHilda Ellis Davidson, writing on Snorri's unique description of Hel in his Prose Edda, states that \"it seems likely that Snorri's account of the underworld is chiefly his own work\" and that the idea that the dead entering Hel who have died of sickness and old age may have been an attempt on Snorri's part to reconcile the tradition with his description of Valhalla, citing that \"the one detailed account of Hel\" that Snorri gives is that of Baldr entering Hel without dying of old age or sickness. Davidson writes that Snorri was potentially using a \"rich source\" unknown to us for his description of Hel, though it may not have told him very much about the location beyond that it was a hall and that Snorri's description of Hel may at times be influenced by Christian teachings about the after-life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220321", "title": "Hester Thrale", "text": "Hester Thrale\n\nHester Lynch Thrale (born Hester Lynch Salusbury and after her second marriage becoming Hester Lynch Piozzi, 27 January 1741 [NS] – 2 May 1821) was a Welsh-born diarist, author, and patron of the arts. Her diaries and correspondence are an important source of information about Samuel Johnson and 18th-century English life.\n\nHester Lynch Salusbury was born at Bodvel Hall, Caernarvonshire, Wales, the only daughter of Hester Lynch Cotton and Sir John Salusbury. As a member of the powerful Salusbury Family, she belonged to one of the most illustrious Welsh land-owning dynasties of the Georgian era. Through her father's line, she was a direct descendant of Katheryn of Berain.\n\nAfter her father had gone bankrupt in an attempt to invest in Halifax, Canada, she married the rich brewer Henry Thrale on 11 October 1763, at St. Anne's Chapel, Soho, London. They had 12 children and lived at Streatham Park. The marriage often was strained, however: her husband frequently felt slighted by members of the court and may well have married to improve his social status. The Thrales' eldest daughter, Hester, became a viscountess.\n\nAfter her marriage, Mrs. Thrale was liberated and free to associate with whom she pleased. Due to her husband's financial status, she was able to enter London society, as a result of which she met Samuel Johnson, James Boswell, Bishop Thomas Percy, Oliver Goldsmith, and other literary figures, including the young Fanny Burney, whom she took with her to Gay Street, Bath.\nIn July 1774 Johnson visited Wales in Mrs. Thrale's company, during which time they visited Hester's uncle Sir Lynch Cotton at Combermere in Denbighshire. Frances, the wife of Sir Lynch's son Robert \"found Johnson, despite his rudeness, at times delightful, having a manner peculiar to himself in relating anecdotes that could not fail to attract old and young. Her impression was that Mrs. Thrale was very vexatious in wishing to engross all his attention, which annoyed him much.\"\n\nJohnson wrote two verses for Hester Thrale in 1775, the first in celebration of her 35th birthday, and another in Latin to honour her.\n\nFanny Burney, in her diary, describes the conversations at several of Mrs. Thrale's soirées, including one in 1779 about a young woman named Miss Sophy Streatfeild (1755–1835), who was a favourite of both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Thrale, rather to the chagrin of Hester, who commented that Sophy \"had a power of captivation that was irresistible... her beauty joined to her softness, her caressing manners, her tearful eyes, and alluring looks, would insinuate her into the heart of any man she thought worth attacking.\" The touch of understandable spite hereby revealed in Mrs. Thrale's nature is tempered by her wry humour in remarking (after another of her male guests had professed devotion to Sophy and the desire to \"soothe\" her): \"I would ensure her power of crying herself into any of your hearts she pleased. I made her cry to Miss Burney, to show how beautiful she looked in tears\" and (on being rebuked about this) \"Oh but she liked it... Miss Burney would have run away but she came forward on purpose to show herself. Sophy Streatfeild is never happier than when tears trickle down from her fine eyes in company.\"\n\nThe Thrales were in Bath in 1780 at the time of the Gordon Riots, when a Roman Catholic chapel was set on fire, although the greater worry was whether Mr. Thrale's brewery in Southwark would escape being ransacked, which it narrowly did.\n\nFanny records Hester's distress on losing her husband (4 April 1781), referring to her as \"sweet Mrs. Thrale\" and sympathising with the \"agitation\" she was under in having to sell the brewery and wind up his affairs. Fanny was there to congratulate and cheer Hester when the business was concluded.\n\nDuring the ensuing years, Hester fell in love with Gabriel Mario Piozzi, an Italian music teacher, and married him on 25 July 1784. She complained: \"I see the English newspapers are full of gross Insolence towards me,\" with one commenting how Thrale could not have imagined \"his wife's disgrace, by eventually raising an obscure and penniless Fiddler into sudden Wealth.\" This caused a rift with Johnson, which was only perfunctorily mended shortly before his death. The levelling marriage also earned her the disapproval of Fanny (who would herself marry in 1793 the impoverished, Catholic émigré Alexandre D'Arblay) and her cousins the Cottons. With her second husband, Hester retired to Brynbella, a specially built country house on her Bach y Graig estate in the Vale of Clwyd, near Tremeirchion village in north Wales. During this time she began to reflect heavily on her ancestry, and for a time became obsessed with the idea of reclaiming her father's Canadian lands in Herring Cove, an enclave of Nova Scotia.\n\nAfter Johnson's death, she published \"Anecdotes of the Late Samuel Johnson\" (1786) and their letters to each other (1788). Fanny Burney, who considered both Johnson and Hester to be among her dearest friends, read the unpublished manuscript with much interest, but disapproved of the decision to publish, noting, \"She has given all – every word – and thinks that, perhaps, a justice to Dr. Johnson, which, in fact, is the greatest injury to his memory.\" Together with Hester Thrale's diaries, which were known as \"Thraliana\", and were not published until 1949, these sources help to fill out the biased picture of Johnson often presented in Boswell's \"Life\". Johnson often stayed with the Thrale household and had his own room above the library at Streatham, in which he worked. Hester's papers provide more insight into his composition process.\n\nHer \"Retrospection: or a review of the most striking and important events, characters, situations, and their consequences which the last eighteen hundred years have presented to the view of mankind\" was an attempt at a popular history of that period, but it was not received well by critics, some of whom patently resented female intrusion into the male preserve of history. Posterity has been kinder. According to the \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\", \"it has since been seen as a feminist history, concerned to show changes in manners and mores in so far as they affected women; it has also been judged to anticipate Marxian history in its keen apprehension of reification: 'machines imitated mortals to unhoped perfection, and men found out they were themselves machines'.\"\n\nHester Piozzi died at No. 10 (now 20) Sion Row, Clifton, Bristol, of complications after a fall, and was buried on 16 May 1821 near Brynbella in the churchyard of Corpus Christi Church, Tremeirchion, next to Piozzi. A marble inside the church was erected in 1909 inscribed with the words\nNear this place are interred the remains of\nHester Lynch Piozzi.\n\"Doctor Johnson's Mrs Thrale\"\nBorn 1741. Died 1821.\nWitty. Vivacious and Charming. In an Age of Genius\nShe Ever Held a Foremost Place\nThis Tablet is Erected by Orlando Butler Fellowes\nGrand-Son of Sir James Fellowes. The Intimate Friend of\nMrs. Piozzi and her Executor.\nAssisted by Subscriptions\n28th April 1909.\n\nFanny Burney eulogised her, going so far as to make a comparison with Germaine de Staël.\n\nFrom the time of her death to nearly the present, she was referred to by scholars as Johnson had referred to her as \"Mrs. Thrale\" or \"Hester Thrale.\" However, she is now often referred to as either \"Hester Lynch Piozzi\" or \"Mrs. Piozzi.\"\n\nSamuel Beckett would draw on Thrale's diaries and \"Anecdotes\" to dramatize her and Samuel Johnson's relationship in one of his earliest plays, \"\". The play was abandoned after the completion of the first act.\n\nAuthor Lillian de la Torre featured Mrs. Thrale in the story \"The Stolen Christmas Box,\" part of her series featuring Samuel Johnson as a detective.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44992690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44992690", "title": "Impurity after childbirth", "text": "Impurity after childbirth\n\nImpurity after childbirth is a form of impurity, primarily found in Abrahamic religions, that begins after a woman has given birth.\n\nAccording to Leviticus 12, a woman who gives birth to a son remains impure for a week, and afterwards immerses in a body of water to purify herself. In rabbinical interpretation of Leviticus 12 any subsequent blood she sees over the next 33 days would be considered \"dam tohar\" (דַּם טׂוהַר – ritually clean blood), and that blood does not prohibit her from sexual relations with her husband. The law for a woman who gives birth to a daughter is the same, however, the durations are doubled. The mother becomes impure for 2 weeks, and after immersion, any blood she sees over the next 66 days is \"dam tohar\".\n\nWithin the realm of Biblical law and post-Biblical Jewish religious discourse surrounding tumah and taharah, the impurity is called in Hebrew \"tumat yoledet\". The biblical laws of postpartum impurity no longer apply, according to rabbinic law, and a \"yoledet\" is considered impure until her flow of blood ends. Hence, Halakhah treats a \"yoledet\" (woman who gives birth) similarly to any woman with niddah status. Nonetheless, in some Jewish communities, ceremonies and a degree of seclusion were applied to postparturient women. For example, there was a Sana Yemenite custom of women visiting the mother during 4–6 weeks after childbirth. The mother would be visited in a special room in her home and she would sit in a decorated triangle box.\n\nSome early churches followed the Jewish custom of restricting women from worship after giving birth until the purification ceremony. Today, many Christians commemorate Candlemas, the feast of the purification of the Virgin Mary. Some continue to celebrate a Churching of Women ceremony, derived from the Jewish tradition but not necessarily implicating ritual impurity.\n\nThere is no scholarly consensus for the Biblical law, including the difference between the birth of sons and daughters. Tikva Frymer-Kensky suggested that \"like the person who touched death, the person who has experienced birth has been at the boundaries of life/non-life...\"\n\nOther rationales include moments of crisis or danger, fear of demons, health, and a lack of wholeness.\n\nFor an attempt at a scientific explanation (re: toxicity of post-puerperal blood) at the duration of the impurity, with attention to related impurity practices in other cultures with differential treatment by newborn gender (e.g., Cich Indians and aboriginal groups in Egypt and Central Africa).\n\nSūtak are Hindu rules of impurity to be followed after the birth of a child (vṛddhi sūtak). Sūtak involves the practice of keeping socially isolated from relatives and community by abstention of mealtaking with family, engaging in customary religious activities, and leaving the home.\n\nA mother must practice sūtak for 10 to 30 days, depending upon her caste, while the father may become purified immediately after the birth of his child by ritual purification (ritualistic bathing).\n\nSikhism does not believe in sūtak, there are many references in Gurbani against this practice and refer to purity in regards to higher living, not just washing the body or refraining from eating with others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33505804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33505804", "title": "International reactions to the death of Muammar Gaddafi", "text": "International reactions to the death of Muammar Gaddafi\n\nThe international reactions to the death of Muammar Gaddafi concern the responses of foreign governments and supranational organisations to the killing of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi at the Battle of Sirte, the last major engagement of the Libyan Civil War, on 20 October 2011.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council voted to authorize a Libyan no-fly zone. Two days later, the French Air Force struck an armoured division and artillery pieces arrayed outside Benghazi, the \"de facto\" capital of the interim rebel governing authority, beginning international military operations in the Libyan theatre.\n\nNATO forces involved in Operation Unified Protector, the codename for the military intervention in Libya, participated in the Battle of Sirte in which Gaddafi was captured and killed. French and U.S. aircraft struck the convoy in which Gaddafi was traveling, leaving him wounded and forcing him to abandon his attempted flight from the besieged city. In an official statement, NATO claimed it was unaware that Gaddafi was part of the convoy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe top officer of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Admiral James G. Stavridis, Supreme Allied Commander Europe, announced that he will recommend that the alliance's Libya air campaign be brought to an end. Officials have said the alliance would likely continue its air patrols over Libya for several more days and then be gradually phased out.\n\nNATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said in a statement that \"NATO and our partners have successfully implemented the historic mandate of the United Nations to protect the people of Libya. We will terminate our mission in co-ordination with the United Nations and the National Transitional Council. With the reported fall of Bani Walid and Sirte, that moment has now moved much closer.\" The North Atlantic Council, the governing body of NATO, will meet on 21 October to officially terminate the seven-month campaign.\n\nNATO defense ministers, meeting in Brussels earlier in October, decided not to halt air operations. However, following Gaddafi's death and the NTC's taking of Sirt, the last city under Gaddafi's control, NATO is likely to officially end the campaign. And the inter-governmental military alliance is now expected to bring the campaign to an end. While only suspending airstrikes and beginning a monitoring period was considered, a NATO officer speaking to the \"Los Angeles Times\" on condition of anonymity stated that the sentiment within NATO is to end the campaign entirely, including the enforcement of the no-fly zone and the arms embargo enforced by naval ships.\n\nThe death of Gaddafi and end of the campaign was viewed as a \"rare clear-cut victory\" for NATO after long operations in Afghanistan and anti-piracy patrols off Somalia. According to Michael Clarke, director of the London-based Royal United Services Institute think tank, \"NATO can say unambiguously this was a military and political success. That's why today is a good day for NATO, and NATO has not had many good days in the last several years.\"\n\nNATO announced that its mission will end on 31 October 2011.\n\nUN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon stated that \"This day marks a historic transition for Libya. In the coming days, we will witness scenes of celebration as well as grief for those who lost so much. Now is the time for all Libyans to come together. Libyans can only realise the promise of the future for national unity and reconciliation. Combatants on all sides must lay down their arms in peace. This is the time for healing and rebuilding, for generosity of spirit, not for revenge.\"\n\nRupert Colville, spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a briefing: \"As you are aware, there are at least two cell-phone videos, one showing him alive and one showing him dead. Taken together, these videos are very disturbing. We believe there is a need for an investigation and more details are needed to ascertain whether he was killed in the fighting or after his capture\". Christof Heyns, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, called for an international investigation into Gaddafi's death, stating that his killing may have been a war crime.\n\n\nIn its immediate aftermath, the killing of Gaddafi was thought to have significant implications in North Africa and the Middle East, as a critical part of the \"Arab Spring\". Pundits speculated that the death would intensify protesting in Syria and Yemen, and French officials stated that because of this they were \"watching the Algerian situation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57741100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57741100", "title": "Jack Baker (rugby league)", "text": "Jack Baker (rugby league)\n\nJack Baker (1890 – 1947) was an Australian rugby league footballer of the 1910s and 1920s. He played in the NSWRFL premiership for the North Sydney and South Sydney clubs. His position was at second-row. Baker was a member of Norths only premiership victories in 1921 and 1922. He played in the 1922 grand final against Glebe where Norths won 35-3 at The Sydney Cricket Ground. After retirement, Baker worked as a police sergeant. \n\nBaker died while living at North Sydney in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "48222258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48222258", "title": "Jim Sullivan (singer-songwriter)", "text": "Jim Sullivan (singer-songwriter)\n\nJames Anthony Sullivan (August 13, 1940 – disappeared March 6, 1975) was an American singer-songwriter and guitarist who released two albums before he disappeared without a trace in New Mexico.\n\nSullivan grew up in the Linda Vista area of San Diego, California, where his Irish-American parents had moved from Nebraska to work in the defense industry. A tall man, he was a high school quarterback. According to self-written liner notes on his first LP, he \"grew up in a government housing project with a bunch of other Okies and Arkies,\" and decided to play music after listening to local blues groups. He married, and played guitar in a local rock band, the Survivors, with his sister-in-law Kathie Doran. He and a friend bought a bar near to their college, but it lost money, and in 1968 he moved with his wife Barbara and young son to Los Angeles.\n\nWhile his wife worked at Capitol Records, Sullivan wrote songs and performed in increasingly prestigious clubs in the Los Angeles area. In particular, he became established at the Raft club in Malibu, where he became friends with Hollywood figures including Lee Majors, Lee Marvin, and Harry Dean Stanton. He appeared as an extra in the movie \"Easy Rider\", and performed on the José Feliciano television show. His friends contributed the funding that allowed him to record an album of his songs with leading Los Angeles session musicians, keyboard player Don Randi, drummer Earl Palmer, and bass player Jimmy Bond, who was also the record's arranger and co-producer. After Nick Venet at Capitol turned down the opportunity to release the record, it was issued by Sullivan's friend Al Dobbs on a small record label, Monnie, a label he set up for that purpose. The album, \"U.F.O.\", was released in 1969, and featured Sullivan's songs in a style blending folk, rock and country that has been compared with Fred Neil, Tim Hardin, Gene Clark and Joe South, with arrangements in the style of David Axelrod.\n\nThe album was remixed and reissued by Century City Records in 1970, and the track \"Rosey\" was issued as a single, but they made little impact at the time. Sullivan continued to perform in clubs. In 1972, he recorded a second album, \"Jim Sullivan\", arranged by Jim Hughart, produced by Lee Burch and released by Playboy Records. Again, however, the record was unsuccessful. As Sullivan increasingly turned to alcohol and his marriage began to disintegrate, he decided in 1975 to travel to Nashville, where Kathie Doran was working as a singer and songwriter, and try to find success there.\n\nSullivan left Los Angeles on March 4, 1975, to drive to Nashville alone in his Volkswagen Beetle. The next day, after being cautioned by a highway patrol over his driving, he checked into the La Mesa Motel in Santa Rosa, New Mexico. Later reports suggest he did not sleep there, and left his key inside the room, but bought vodka at the town store. He was seen the following day about away, at a remote ranch owned by the Gennetti family. His car was later found abandoned at the ranch, and he was reportedly last seen walking away from it. The car contained Sullivan's money, papers, guitar, clothes, and a box of his unsold records.\n\nHe was never seen again, and reports have variously attributed his disappearance to being murdered, becoming disoriented and lost, or, particularly in the light of the title of his first album, alien abduction. Search parties failed to find any trace of him. A decomposed body resembling Sullivan was later found in a remote area several miles away, but was determined not to be his.\n\nSullivan's records, especially \"U.F.O.\", developed a cult following in later years, partly because of their rarity and obscurity. In 2010, Matt Sullivan (no relation), the founder of Light in the Attic Records, decided to reissue \"U.F.O.\", and made serious attempts to uncover the mystery of Sullivan's disappearance, interviewing many of those who knew him and those involved in his recordings, but revealing little new information. The album was issued on CD in 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35072236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35072236", "title": "John Arnold of Monmouthshire", "text": "John Arnold of Monmouthshire\n\nJohn Arnold, widely known as John Arnold of Monmouthshire (–1702), was a Welsh Protestant politician and Whig MP. He was one of the most prominent people in Monmouthshire in the late 17th century. A stark anti-Papist, he was a notable figure during the Popish plot and the suppression of Catholicism in the country. Arnold represented the constituencies around Monmouth (known as the Monmouth Boroughs) and Southwark in Parliament in the 1680s and 1690s. His strong anti-Papist beliefs and insurgences against Catholic priests made him an unpopular and controversial figure amongst his peers and in his native Monmouthshire. Amongst his associates were Titus Oates and Anthony Ashley Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury.\n\nArnold was born in Southwark, around 1635, the first son of Nicholas Arnold of Llanvihangel Crucorney and the maternal grandson of Sir Edward Moore of Drogheda, County Louth. The Arnold family had their seat in Llanthony Priory by the end of the 16th century but had to lease it to the Hoptons owing to financial difficulties. Llanvihangel Court became the family seat and John succeeded his father in 1665. Educated in Southwark, he became Sheriff of Monmouthshire in 1669.\n\nArnold was made a deputy lieutenant, captain of the county troops, and Justice of the Peace in 1677 by Henry Somerset, 3rd Marquess of Worcester. However, Worcester formed a strong dislike for Arnold, and a lifelong feud began between them when Worcester had him \"turned out of the commission of the peace for opposing his candidate at a by-election and generally 'affronting' him.\" Arnold, who was starting to exhibit signs of paranoia, blamed Edward Colman, secretary to the future King James II, and went up to London to challenge him to a duel. In fact Colman, who has been described as \"the typical courtier and man about town\", had no interest in events on the remote Welsh border, and it is most unlikely that he was to blame.\n\nArnold's popularity declined further in March 1678 when he raided the Cwm Jesuit college in Llanrothal, Herefordshire with Border Protestants such as Herbert Croft and Charles Price during the Popish plot. Arnold reportedly gave some of his harshest criticism to its steward, Henry Milbourne, describing him as an \"undoubted Papist\" who only \"held lands worth £100 per annum in one county, but is made justice of the peace in four\". He denounced Milbourne in the House of Commons but with little success; several MPs believed Arnold's report was poorly constructed and some believed that the lord-lieutenant was a Catholic activist in south Wales. On 17 November 1678, Arnold also captured Father David Lewis, also known as Charles Baker, at St Michael's Church in Llantarnam. Father Lewis spent the night \"in an upper room under John Arnold's roof\" at Llanvihangel Court. He was then taken to Monmouth Gaol and was executed on 27 August 1679 after a trial at Usk. He was a much loved figure locally and his execution caused widespread dismay.\n\nIn the winter of 1678–9, Arnold was restored to the bench at the request of Worcester's son, Lord Herbert. Arnold, Lord Herbert, William Morgan, and the Bishop of Llandaff, began hunting down Roman Catholics in Monmouthshire, with Arnold offering a personal bounty of £200 to anybody who would capture a Catholic priest and send them to him. Amongst those brought to him was the Jesuit David Lewis, and the college of Jesuits at the Cwm was also attacked. In the second general election of 1679, Arnold stood for Monmouth but lost to Lord Herbert and was admitted to the Green Ribbon Club in November of that year. The election result was overturned on petition in 1680, and Arnold was seated for Monmouth instead of Lord Herbert. He continued to fight the Catholics and complained in parliament about the iMonmouthshire justices failing to enforce the Penal Laws. Arnold fell into disrepute with the Catholic Herberts of Coldbrook around this time. Arnold was also responsible for prosecuting and executing Philip Evans on the testimony of three witnesses he found.\n\nArnold was again at the centre of controversy in April 1680 when he was apparently victim of an attack by a Catholic, John Giles, who (Arnold alleged) tried to stab him to death in Bell Yard, off Fleet Street, London, avenging the execution of the priests in Monmouthshire. Although Giles was found guilty and fined £500, some believed that Herbert of Coldbrook was the culprit and many believed (as do most historians) that Arnold invented the affair as an attempt to revive the Popish plot, and make himself a popular hero. He became known to his enemies thereafter as \"cut-throat Arnold\". Later than year, in October 1680, Arnold gave evidence in the House of Lords against the former Portuguese Jewish ambassador to London, Francesco de Feria, who was alleged to have been involved in a plot to kill the Earl of Shaftesbury, Titus Oates, William Bedloe and Arnold. In November, Arnold and John Dutton Colt were described by Thomas Bruce as \"the most noisy, impudent and ignorant\" Members of the Parliament.\n\nIn January 1681, Arnold supported the case for removing the Earl of Halifax and Laurence Hyde from the King's counsels. At this time he was given a large armed guard to protect him during his travels to Oxford against Papist attacks. In September 1681, Feria claimed that Arnold had offered him £300 to testify that he had seen the Marquess of Worcester at mass at the Portuguese Embassy and alleged that Arnold had called the king a Papist. His sanity was increasingly questioned, and it was said he would attack complete strangers in the street, accusing them of being Papists. He was infuriated by the decision to create his arch-enemy Worcester Duke of Beaufort, which he took as a personal insult.\n\nIn 1682, he reportedly said \"the Marquess of Worcester is a Papist and as deeply concerned in the Popish Plot and as guilty of endeavouring to introduce Popery and the subversion of the Protestant religion as any of the Jesuits that justly suffered for it, and I doubt not but to make the said Marquess and his crooked-back son to suffer for it in time.\" For this, he was brought to trial in the King's Bench, along with Sir Trevor Williams, for Scandalum Magnatum by the Marquess of Worcester, newly created Duke of Beaufort, whom he had also accused of harbouring Papists in Chepstow. He was fined £10,000, an exorbitant figure at that time. Unable to pay, Arnold was imprisoned until 1686.\n\nIn the general election of 1689, Arnold stood for Southwark and formed an electoral alliance with the Tory, Sir Peter Rich. From 1695–98 he was again MP for Monmouth but he continued to be very unpopular due to his extreme views. Under William III, Arnold remained a court Whig and was replaced by his son after his death in 1702 during the Monmouthshire taxation commission. Arnold's estates were sold in 1726.\n\nHe married Margaret, the daughter of William Cooke of Highnam, Gloucestershire and had 3 sons and 2 daughters. They lived at Llanvihangel Court, which was sold by his successor in 1726.\n"}
{"id": "13113819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13113819", "title": "John Blyth (bishop)", "text": "John Blyth (bishop)\n\nJohn Blyth or John Blythe (before 1460 – 23 August 1499) was a medieval Bishop of Salisbury.\n\nBlyth was Archdeacon of Richmond from 1485 to 1493 and was Master of the Rolls 5 May 149213 February 1494. He was nominated to Salisbury on 13 November 1493 and consecrated on 23 February 1494, serving until his death five-and-a-half years later, on 23 August 1499. His brother Geoffrey was Bishop of Lichfield.\n\n"}
{"id": "265432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265432", "title": "Lake monster", "text": "Lake monster\n\nA lake monster is a lake-dwelling entity of mythic origin. A well-known example is the Loch Ness Monster. Lake monsters' depictions are often similar to sea monsters.\n\nAccording to the Swedish naturalist and author Bengt Sjögren (1980), the present-day lake monsters are variations of older legends of water kelpies. Sjögren claims that the accounts of lake-monsters have changed during history, as do others. Older reports often talk about horse-like appearances, but more modern reports often have more reptile and dinosaur-like appearances, he concludes that the legendary kelpies evolved into the present day saurian lake-monsters since the discovery of dinosaurs and giant aquatic reptiles and the popularization of them in both scientific and fictional writings and art.\n\nThe stories cut across cultures, existing in some variation in many countries. They've undergone what Michel Meurger calls concretizing (The process of turning items, drawings, general beliefs and stories into a plausible whole) and naturalization over time as humanity's view of the world has changed.\n\nIn many of these areas, especially around Loch Ness, Lake Champlain and the Okanagan Valley, these lake monsters have become important tourist draws.\n\nIn Ben Radford and Joe Nickell's book \"Lake Monster Mysteries\", the authors attribute a vast number of sightings to otter misidentifications. Ed Grabianowski plotted the distribution of North American lake monster sightings. Then he overlaid the distribution of the common otter and found a near perfect match. It turns out that three or four otters swimming in a line look remarkably like a serpentine, humped creature undulating through the water. It is very easy to mistake for a single creature if you see them from a distance. \"This isn't speculation. I'm not making this up,\" Nickell said. \"I've spoken to people who saw what they thought was a lake monster, got closer and discovered it was actually a line of otters. That really happens.\" Clearly, not every lake monster sighting can be accounted for with otters, but it's an excellent example of how our perceptions can be fooled.\n\nPaul Barrett and Darren Naish note that the existence of any large animals in isolation (i.e., in a situation where no breeding population exists) is highly unlikely. Naish also observes that the stories are likely remnants of tales meant to keep children safely away from the water.\n\nThere have been many purported sightings of lake monsters, and even some photographs, but each time these have either been shown to be deliberate deceptions, such as the Lake George Monster Hoax, or serious doubts about the veracity and verifiability have arisen, as with the famous Mansi photograph of Champ.\n\nWell-known lake monsters include:\n"}
{"id": "26069220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26069220", "title": "List of cemeteries in Estonia", "text": "List of cemeteries in Estonia\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Estonia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14359899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14359899", "title": "Melfan (Sector General)", "text": "Melfan (Sector General)\n\nA Melfan (physiological classification ELNT) is one of about seventy known intelligent species in the fictional Sector General universe, and one of the most common species in Sector 12 General Hospital itself. Overall, a Melfan resembles a 6-foot-long crab. Compared with most other races, they are very emotional and passionate people. They, like the majority of races in the Sector General universe, wear no clothing or body ornaments.\n\nMelfans are amphibious, being comfortable in water or on land. They eat every ten hours, and sleep for four hours in between. Their favourite dishes include swamp nuts and live crottled greeps, although at Sector General they have to make do with moving electrically charged substitutes.\n\nThe Melfan head has large, vertically lidded eyes, enormous mandibles, and pincers projecting forward from the place where ears would otherwise be. There are also two long, thin, fragile, flexible feelers growing from the sides of the mouth, which feel like soft, furry feathers to the touch. When angry they click their pincers together rapidly; a slow clicking indicates a desire for attention. Projecting from slits where the bony carapace and underside join are six thin, bony, tubular, multijointed limbs, all of which are capable of manipulation but lack a sense of touch. They are immobilised if they get turned onto their backs.\n"}
{"id": "34708218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34708218", "title": "Mike Breen (pastor)", "text": "Mike Breen (pastor)\n\nMike Breen (born 13 June 1958) is an English church leader, minister, author and entrepreneur. Breen has been an innovator in leading missional churches throughout Europe and the United States.\n\nBreen recalls never having read a book at age 16, due to dyslexia. To enable him to partake in classroom discussions, his school teacher and returned missionary, Mrs. Dearmest, handed him a \"Living Bible\" to read. He read it all and his life changed.\n\nBreen holds a degree from Cranmer Hall, Durham, a Church of England theological college and is an ordained minister in the Church of England. He started out as a curate in Cambridge in 1984. From 1987, he served as parish priest in Brixton in the inner city of London — a \"tough parish in the east end of London. Brixton is like south-central Los-Angeles in many ways\". During his time in Brixton, Breen pioneered missional communities as a ministry model.\n\nThe Breen family lived in Little Rock, Arkansas from 1991 to 1994.\n\nIn 1994, Breen moved to Sheffield, following Robert Warren as senior rector of St. Thomas' Church, Crookes, an Anglican-Baptist local ecumenical partnership. As team leader, Breen led St Thomas' to become England's largest church by attendance by the turn of the decade.\n\nWhile at St Thomas', Breen begun The Order of Mission, a Protestant, Charismatic and Evangelical monastic order. As vicar, Breen became the order's \"Senior Guardian of \"The Order of Mission\"\" (TOM).\n\nIn 2004, Breen moved to Glendale, Arizona, to serve as a pastor of the Community Church of Joy and taught at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, California.\n\nIn 2006, the Leadership Network approached Breen to lead an initiative into church planting. The European Church Planting Network was established in 2007 with Breen as a senior leader. The ECPN Leadership Community gathered church leaders from all over Europe, with a stated goal of seeing 500 new churches planted across Eastern and Western Europe by the end of 2011. The result of 1,137 significantly exceeded this goal.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2014, Breen lived at Pawleys Island, South Carolina, where he serves as the leader for 3D Movements, an \"organic movement of biblical discipleship and missional church\" helping established churches and church planters move into a discipling and missional way of being church. 3DM decentralized in 2014, with Jo Saxton eventually becoming Chair of the Board as of June 2018. Breen moved to Greenville, South Carolina, and began working on his Ph.D. at Trinity Seminary. Breen continued writing for 3DM Publishing, releasing updated editions of \"Building a Discipling Culture\" and \"Family on Mission\" (with his wife Sally), among others.\n\nIn January 2014 Breen spoke in a leadership event to the multi-thousand member North Heights Lutheran Church, which sparked concerns leading to the April, 2014 decision of the elder board to remove 3DM completely from the church, and publishing at length the reasons for their decision. Among those reasons attributed to 3DM were that, \"worship attendance has dropped off dramatically,\" and a corresponding drop in giving. Other churches experienced success through 3DM partnerships, for example Billabong Uniting Church in Western Australia.\n\nBreen is married to Sally Breen. The couple have three children, Beccy, Libby and Sam.\n\n\nBreen's books have been translated into Spanish, German, and Norwegian.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18150591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18150591", "title": "Monroe Salisbury", "text": "Monroe Salisbury\n\nMonroe Salisbury (May 8, 1876 – August 7, 1935) was an American actor. He appeared on the stage for several years and then became an early film star.\n\nSalisbury was a matinee idol. He began his acting career on the stage in 1898, appearing in numerous romantic leads. He also appeared in five Broadway productions. He was in 42 silent movies between 1914 and 1922, working frequently with director Cecil B. DeMille. Salisbury, who appeared in several western films, also appeared in two talkies, in 1929 and 1930.\n\nAfter his career was at an end, Salisbury died at a mental hospital from a fractured skull sustained during a fall.\n\nHe was born Orange Salisbury Cash in Angola, New York, the son of David Cash (c. 1840–?) and Ellen Louise Salisbury (1842–1929). Orr's two elder sisters were Adelaide Mary Cash (1864–1956), who married John Casper Bosche (1861–1929), and Anna Louise Cash (1868–1951), who married Edward Clarke.\n\nHis mother had a younger brother named Orange James Salisbury (1844–1907). She also had an elder brother named Monroe Salisbury (1835–1905), a government contractor and well-known turfman who bred racehorses.\n\nOrr took the name Monroe Salisbury as his stage name. He appeared behind the footlights with such notables as Richard Mansfield, Eleonora Duse, John Drew, Nance O'Neil, Minnie Maddern Fiske, and Kathryn Kidder.\n\nWhile he was performing in Providence, Rhode Island, in June 1900, Salisbury and his mother were staying in a hotel on Weybosset Street when the U.S. Federal Census was taken. His debut on Broadway was in the play \"Marta of the Lowlands\" (1903).\n\nSalisbury's film debut was in the uncredited role as Sir Henry, Earl of Kerhill, in DeMille's \"The Squaw Man\" (1914). He also worked for DeMille in such movies as \"Brewster's Millions\", \"The Master Mind\", \"The Virginian\", and \"Rose of the Rancho\", which were all released in 1914. He also appeared alongside Douglas Fairbanks in \"The Lamb\" and \"Double Trouble\" (both [1915).\n\nSalisbury scored his greatest success when he starred as Alessandro in \"Ramona\" (1916) opposite Adda Gleason in the title role. He then signed with Universal Studios, where he was among the top movie stars for several years.\n\nWhen he registered for the draft of World War I, in late 1918, Salisbury and his mother were living in the Mountain View Inn at 5956 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood.\n\nIn the late 1910s he bought a citrus ranch near Hemet, and, between pictures, it was his habit to drive out and drop in unexpectedly on the Native American overseer and his family who lived on the place and worked in the groves.\n\nIn 1920 Salisbury and his mother were still living at the Mountain View Inn on Hollywood Boulevard. He formed his own production company, that same year, and produced and starred in \"The Barbarian\" (1920). His final starring role was in the drama \"Great Alone\" (1922), in which he played a half-Native American college student and football player, a character presumably half his age. He then retired from the screen.\n\nIn June 1928, he returned to the U.S. at the Port of San Francisco, from Kobe, Japan, aboard the S.S. Taiyo Maru, and gave his U.S. address as Hemet, California.\n\nWith the advent of sound in the late 1920s, Salisbury returned to the screen in two talkies. He appeared in a Christie comedy short, \"Her Husband's Woman\" (1929). He then played John Lamar in Universal's 10 chapter serial \"The Jade Box\" (1930).\n\n\"The Jade Box\" serial was Salisbury's final movie appearances. In 1930, he was living at the Warner Kelton Hotel at 6326 Lexington Avenue, just west of Vine Street, in Hollywood, later called the \"Hotel Brevoort (and Tropical Gardens)\"\n\nIn February 1932, he returned to Southern California, at San Pedro, from Ensenada, Mexico, aboard the S.S. Ruth Alexander, and gave his U.S. address as 6326 Lexington Hollywood.\n\nOn July 2, 1935, Salisbury entered Patton State Hospital, a mental facility near San Bernardino, as a patient. He may have been admitted under his real name, Orr Cash. His occupation was given as hotel clerk. A month later, he suffered a bad fall at the institution and was fatally injured.\n\nMonroe Salisbury died at age 59 from a fractured skull sustained in his fall at the institution. He was at a local mortuary for a day before his true identity was discovered. Only four mourners were present at his funeral on August 9, 1935, at the mortuary in San Bernardino. His body was returned to Los Angeles, for cremation and his ashes interred with his mother in the family plot at Rosedale Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "48877461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48877461", "title": "Murder of Tiahleigh Palmer", "text": "Murder of Tiahleigh Palmer\n\nTiahleigh Alyssa Rose Palmer (sometimes known as Tia or Tiah) was a 12-year-old Australian girl who lived in Logan City, Queensland. She was murdered on 30 October 2015. Her remains were found six days later and her foster father, Rick Thorburn, was charged on 20 September 2016 with her murder. Thorburn pleaded guilty to the murder before the Supreme Court of Queensland on 25 May 2018.\n\nPalmer's foster father says he drove her to Marsden State High School on 30 October 2015, dropping her off at about 8:10am. She did not attend any classes and was not seen for the rest of the day. On 5 November, police released photos and appealed to the public for information on her whereabouts in a press conference. Later that day, the remains of a female aged 12–18 were found on the bank of the Pimpama River and, on 6 November, they were officially identified as Palmer's. Police then began a search for her backpack and school uniform. On 7 November, a vigil was held in Logan and, on 14 November, her funeral was held and attended by more than 600 people.\n\nOn 4 December 2015, a shoe believed to be Palmer's was found near where her body was discovered. Police conducted many interviews, searched the area around the Pimpama River and forensically examined a number of houses and vehicles. The investigation failed to find her missing backpack and school uniform.\n\nPalmer's foster father, Rick Thorburn, was a person of interest to police from the earliest days of the investigation. The Thorburns fostered no more children after Palmer's disappearance, but continued to run a daycare service from their home until April 2016 when the state's education and child safety departments were advised by police that Rick Thorburn was facing nine serious charges unrelated to Palmer, and the family's daycare approval was revoked and their foster care approval was suspended.\n\nIn September 2016 a car formerly owned by Rick Thorburn was seized by police for forensic examination and, on 20 September 2016, Palmer's foster parents and their two sons were taken into police custody for questioning. Rick Thorburn was charged with Palmer's murder and with interfering with a corpse. He collapsed shortly after his arrest and was subsequently placed in an induced coma for several days, missing a scheduled court appearance the next day. Police are looking into whether he took pills just before or after his arrest, in a suicide attempt.\n\nPalmer's 19-year-old foster brother, Trent, was charged with two counts of perjury and one count each of attempting to pervert the course of justice and incest, and was denied bail. Her foster mother, Julene, and older foster brother, Joshua, were both charged with perjury and attempting to pervert the course of justice and released on bail.\n\nPalmer's grandmother has told reporters that, months before she died, Palmer had declined an option to move in with her mother because she had a crush on Trent, and because she loved the horses on the Thorburn property. In a court hearing on 21 September 2016 prosecutors said that, two days before her death, Trent confessed to a cousin that he had had sex with Palmer on the previous Monday, and that she had told his mother about it. The court also heard that, shortly before her death, Palmer had told a friend that Trent would have sex with her when Mrs Thorburn went out, and she had told her foster mother about the abuse. Prosecutors say that Trent now admits he was lying when he had earlier repeatedly denied the abuse to his parents and police.\n\nOn 23 September 2016, investigators began excavating the Thorburns' rural property in a search for evidence. Rick Thorburn said nothing to investigators, but Julene and Joshua both made statements to police. On 10 October, Julene's and Joshua's lawyer told a court they would plead guilty to all charges and had agreed to be witnesses for the prosecution. In March 2018 it was reported that Rick Thorburn intended to plead guilty to Palmer's murder, and he did so formally before the Supreme Court on 25 May 2018. He was then sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for at least 20 years.\n\nIn July 2017, Joshua Thorburn was sentenced to three months in jail for lying to police and hiding information about Palmer's death. Trent Thorburn was sentenced to four years in jail for incest, perjury and attempting to pervert the course of justice in September 2017 and released on 19 January 2018. In November 2017, Julene Thorburn was sentenced to 18 months in jail for perjury and attempting to pervert the course of justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "32819355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32819355", "title": "Pachomius I of Constantinople", "text": "Pachomius I of Constantinople\n\nPachomius I (), (? – 1513) was Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople from 1503 to 1513, except for a short period in 1504.\n\nBefore his election as Patriarch of Constantinople, Pachomius was Metropolitan of Zichna. When Patriarch Joachim I was deposed in 1502, the rulers of Wallachia, quite influential on the affairs of the Church of Constantinople, sponsored the election of the old Nephon II, who refused. Thus they transferred their support to Pachomius, who was elected in early 1503. His first reign lasted only about one year, because in early 1504 Joachim I returned to the throne after a payment of 3500 gold pieces to the Sultan.\n\nJoachim died shortly later during a travel in Wallachia and so in autumn 1504 Pachomius, always supported by the rulers of Wallachia, returned to the throne. The second reign of Pachomius lasted about nine years, a long period in comparison with the reigns of the patriarchs in the 15th century.\n\nThe main issue during Pachomius' patriarchate was the case of the Cretan scholar Arsenius Apostolius. In 1506 the Roman Curia appointed Arsenius as Eastern Rite bishop of Monemvasia, at that time part of the overseas domains of the Venetian Republic. Arsenius declared himself in communion both with the Patriarch of Constantinople and with the Catholic Church. This position was untenable for the Church of Constantinople and Pachomius invited Arsenius to abdicate. The issue went on for more than two years until June 1509 when Pachomius excommunicated Arsenius, who retired to Venice.\n\nDuring the last year of his patriarchate, Pachomius visited Wallachia and Moldavia. On the way back, already in Selymbria, Pachomius was poisoned by Theodolus, a monk at his service. Pachomius died immediately, in early 1513.\n\n"}
{"id": "31166307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31166307", "title": "Packing for Mars", "text": "Packing for Mars\n\nPacking for Mars: The Curious Science of Life in the Void is a non-fiction work by science author Mary Roach.\n\nPublished in August 2010, \"Packing for Mars\" was recognized in \"Amazon's Best Books\" of that month, it quickly became a #6 \"New York Times\" bestseller, and it was chosen as the book of the year for the 7th annual One City One Book: San Francisco Reads literary event program.\n\nIn \"Packing for Mars\", Mary Roach searches for answers to questions about the gross, the bizarre, and the uncomfortable aspects of space travel. The book's 16 chapters cover the entire comedic spectrum of all things space-related, and also include some study of the scientific side of space travel. The chapters discussing the various bodily functions of astronauts in space (going to the bathroom, having sex, vomiting) and obscure testing procedures (animals in space, lying in beds for months, parabolic zero-g) are balanced by the informative sections on topics such as the psychological effects of being in space, astronaut training, and the increasing use of human cadavers over crash test dummies in research.\n\nMary Roach, the author of \"Packing for Mars\", was raised in Etna, New Hampshire and spent several years working as a freelance copy editor and investigating unpopular topics. Roach explores lots of questions such as what happens after we die, what sex is all about, and what secrets human cadavers hold. However, in \"Packing for Mars\", she turns her mind toward space and examines the logistics of space travel. In an interview, she describes her book to be about all the surreal physical and physiological challenges of living in space as a human being. Roach explains that in addition to these problems, human beings are not in the slightest equipped or prepared to confront these challenges. Although most of her other books have one-word titles, Mary Roach claims that it was especially difficult to come up with a one-word title for this specific book.\n\nThe book covers 12 topics:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22184837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22184837", "title": "Placental disease", "text": "Placental disease\n\nIschemic placental disease leads to the attachment of the placenta to the uterine wall to become under-perfused, causing uteroplacental ischemia. Where the term overarches the pathology associated with preeclampsia, placental abruptions and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). These factors are known to be the primary pathophysiology cause placental disease. Which is considered to be associated with more than half of premature births.\n\nAbnormalities present within the spiral arteries lead to higher velocities in blood, in turn causes the maternal villi to shred. Which trigger pro-coagulator molecules to be released into the blood stream causing action of the coagulator cascade, eventually leading to placental infarction. Risk factors such as diabetes, chronic blood pressure and multiple pregnancies can increase the risk of developing placental disease. Also, exposure to sudden trauma can increase the risk of placental abruption which coincides with placental disease.\n\nThere is no target treatment available for placental disease. Associative prevention mechanisms can be a method of minimising the risk of developing the disease, within early stages of pregnancy.\n\nThe abnormal spiral arteries lead decreased level of oxygen diffusion through the placental villus, which cause chronic hypoxia. The abnormal trophoblast invasion, lead to overall uteroplacental insufficiencies and uteroplacental underperfusion. It is due to the decreased vascularisation, there are reduced levels of nutrient delivery to the foetus. Also, cases of still births can be associated with placental disease.\n\nPreeclampsia is considered to be linked with Placental Disease, as well as intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and placental abruptions are risk factors that lead to placental disease. Especially when these symptoms are evident at early stages of pregnancy. The abnormal invasion of the trophoblast cells, lack of important growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PlGF), has an association with the onset of placental disease.\n\nIn placental disease, there’s abnormalities present within the spiral arties of the uterus, where the terminal part of the spinal arteries does not dilate. This leads to decrease oxygen carried past the maternal villi into the intervillus space. The lack of terminal dilation and inclining blood velocity causes shredding of the villi into the maternal blood, releasing blood coagulants activating the coagulation cascade. Which then leads to blocking of the blood vessels causing placental infarction.\n\nRisk factors associated with placental disease are as follows:\n\n\nAlso, chronic renal disease, collagen vascular disease and thrombophilia, increases the risk of developing placental disease. Moreover, being exposed to severe trauma within the pregnancy period, rapid acceleration and deceleration and uterine compression increase the risk of placental abruption, in turn leading to placental disease.\n\nPlacental Disease can be diagnosed through technologies such as, Prenatal ultrasound evaluation and invasive foetal testing. The size of the foetus is taken into account through ultrasonography in terms of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). In conjunction with taking into account the maternal history.\n\nTreatment of placental disease would require a premature birth, in order to avoid a still birth.\n\nPlacental disease is more common in preterm gestation than with full term. Which leads to serious injuries to both the mother and the new-born. Women who endured placental disease within the first pregnancy has an increased risk of the disease progressing within future pregnancies. The onset of the disease within the first trimester leads to preterm delivery of a premature baby. Preeclampsia is diagnosed in 3-5% of pregnancies that place them at risk of developing placental disease. Ischemic placental disease is linked with approximately more than half of premature births.\n\nThe following factors can be linked with reducing the likelihood of developing placental disease:\n\nA placental disease is any disease, disorder, or pathology of the placenta. The article also covers placentation abnormalities, which is often used synonymously for placental disease.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTrophoblastic neoplasms derive from trophoblastic tissue. Examples include:\n"}
{"id": "20700053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20700053", "title": "Polaris Partners", "text": "Polaris Partners\n\nPolaris Partners is an investment firm that has partnered with entrepreneurs in the fields of healthcare and technology. The firm has partnered with enterprises in various stages of development.\n\nPolaris has offices in Boston, Massachusetts and San Francisco, California. The firm has over $4 billion under management and has invested in more than 250 companies.\n\nPolaris Partners was founded in 1995/1996 by Jon Flint, Terry McGuire, Steve Arnold, who were partners of Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co. (BEDCO).\nPolaris was the first of four successors to Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co. (BEDCO), one of the earliest bi-coastal venture capital firms in the US, which dissolved in 1996. The firm has roughly $4.0 billion under management, and is now making investments through its seventh fund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3117750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3117750", "title": "Rational egoism", "text": "Rational egoism\n\nRational egoism (also called rational selfishness) is the principle that an action is rational if and only if it maximizes one's self-interest. The view is a normative form of egoism. It is distinct from psychological egoism (according to which people are \"motivated\" only to act in their own self-interest) and ethical egoism (that moral agents \"ought\" only to do what is in their own self-interest).\n\nRational egoism was embodied by Russian author Nikolay Chernyshevsky in the 1863 book \"What Is to Be Done?\". Chernyshevsky's standpoint was ultimately socialistic, and was criticised by Fyodor Dostoyevsky in the 1864 book \"Notes from Underground\".\n\nEnglish philosopher Henry Sidgwick discussed rational egoism in his book \"The Methods of Ethics\", first published in 1872. A method of ethics is \"any rational procedure by which we determine what individual human beings 'ought' – or what it is 'right' for them – to do, or seek to realize by voluntary action\". Sidgwick considers three such procedures, namely, rational egoism, dogmatic intuitionism, and utilitarianism. Rational egoism is the view that, if rational, \"an agent regards quantity of consequent pleasure and pain to himself alone important in choosing between alternatives of action; and seeks always the greatest attainable surplus of pleasure over pain\".\n\nSidgwick found it difficult to find any persuasive reason for preferring rational egoism over utilitarianism. Although utilitarianism can be provided with a rational basis and reconciled with the morality of common sense, rational egoism appears to be an equally plausible doctrine regarding what we have most reason to do. Thus we must \"admit an ultimate and fundamental contradiction in our apparent intuitions of what is Reasonable in conduct; and from this admission it would seem to follow that the apparently intuitive operation of Practical Reason, manifested in these contradictory judgments, is after all illusory\".\n\nThe author and philosopher Ayn Rand also discusses a theory that she called 'rational egoism'. She holds that it is both irrational and immoral to act against one's self-interest. Thus, her view is a conjunction of both rational egoism (in the standard sense) and ethical egoism, because according to Objectivist philosophy, egoism cannot be properly justified without an epistemology based on reason:\n\nHer book \"The Virtue of Selfishness\" (1964) explains the concept of rational egoism in depth. According to Rand, a rational man holds his own life as his highest value, rationality as his highest virtue, and his happiness as the final purpose of his life.\n\nConversely, Rand was sharply critical of the ethical doctrine of altruism:\n\nTwo objections to rational egoism are given by the English philosopher Derek Parfit, who discusses the theory at length in \"Reasons and Persons\" (1984). First, from the rational egoist point of view, it is rational to contribute to a pension scheme now, even though this is detrimental to one's present interests (which are to spend the money now). But it seems equally reasonable to maximize one's interests now, given that one's reasons are not only relative to him, but to him as he is now (and not his future self, who is argued to be a \"different\" person). Parfit also argues that since the connections between the present mental state and the mental state of one's future self may decrease, it is not plausible to claim that one should be indifferent between one's present and future self.\n\nThe \"selfish gene\" model of evolution suggests that human (and animal) behaviors that seem altruistic are actually selfish, if viewed from the perspective of genes/phenotypes. People help each other \"selflessly\" because copies of their own genes also exist in others, so behaviors that help the genes survive are selected for, with the altruistic drive decreasing with genetic distance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26011", "title": "Receptive aphasia", "text": "Receptive aphasia\n\nWernicke's aphasia, also known as receptive aphasia, sensory aphasia, or posterior aphasia, is a type of aphasia in which individuals have difficulty understanding written and spoken language. Patients with Wernicke's aphasia demonstrate fluent speech, which is characterized by typical speech rate, intact syntactic abilities, and effortless speech output. Writing often reflects speech in that it tends to lack content or meaning. In most cases, motor deficits (i.e. hemiparesis) do not occur in individuals with Wernicke's aphasia. Therefore, they may produce a large amount of speech without much meaning. Wernicke's aphasia was named after Carl Wernicke who is credited with discovering the area of the brain responsible for language comprehension. Individuals with Wernicke's aphasia are typically unaware of their errors in speech and do not realize their speech may lack meaning. They typically remain unaware of even their most profound language deficits.\n\nLike many acquired language disorders, Wernicke's aphasia can be experienced in many different ways and to many different degrees. Patients diagnosed with Wernicke's aphasia can show severe language comprehension deficits; however, this is dependent on the severity and extent of the lesion. Severity levels may range from being unable to understand even the simplest spoken and/or written information to missing minor details of a conversation. Many diagnosed with Wernicke's aphasia have difficulty with repetition in words and sentences, and or working memory.\n\nThe following are common symptoms seen in patients with Wernicke's aphasia:\n\nImpaired Comprehension: deficits in understanding (receptive) written and spoken language. This is because Wernicke's area is responsible for assigning meaning to the language that is heard, so if it is damaged, the brain cannot comprehend the information that is being received.\n\nPoor Word Retrieval: ability to retrieve target words is impaired. This is also referred to as Anomia.\n\nFluent Speech: individuals with Wernicke's aphasia do not have difficulty with producing connected speech that flows. Although the connection of the words may be appropriate, the words they are using may not belong together or make sense (see Production of Jargon below).\nProduction of Jargon: speech that lacks content, consists of typical intonation, and is structurally intact. Jargon can consist of a string of neologisms, as well as a combination of real words that do not make sense together in context. May include word salads.\n\nAwareness: Individuals with Wernicke's aphasia are often not aware of their incorrect productions, which would further explain why they do not correct themselves when they produce jargon, paraphasias, or neologisms.\n\nParaphasias:\nNeologisms: nonwords that have no relation to the target word.\nCircumlocution: talking around the target word.\nPress of speech: run-on speech. \nLack of Hemiparesis: typically, no motor deficits are seen with a localized lesion in Wernicke's area.\n\nReduced Retention Span: reduced ability to retain information for extended periods of time.\n\nImpairments in reading and writing: impairments can be seen in both reading and writing with differing severity levels.\n\nHow to Differentiate from Other Types of Aphasia.\n\n\nThe most common cause of Wernicke's aphasia is stroke. Strokes may occur when blood flow to the brain is completely interrupted or severely reduced. This has a direct effect on the amount of oxygen and nutrients being able to supply the brain, which causes brain cells to die within minutes. The primary classifications of stroke are hemorrhagic (ruptured blood vessel), or ischemic (blood clot reduces or completely stops blood flow). Two of the most common types of hemorrhagic stroke are subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hemorrhage. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is when an artery near the surface of the brain bursts causing blood to leak into the space between the brain and skull. Meanwhile intracerebral hemorrhage occurs when a blood vessel inside the brain bursts, causing spillage into surrounding brain tissue. Three main causes of these hemorrhagic strokes are hypertension (uncontrolled high blood pressure), aneurisms (weak spots in blood vessel walls), and arteriovenous malformations (rupture of abnormal tangle of thin-walled blood vessels). As previously noted the other major classification for a stroke is an ischemic stroke. The ischemic strokes, which are the most common form of stroke, are further broken down and can be classified as embolic or thrombotic. Embolic strokes occur when a blood clot forms away from the brain, typically in the heart. A small portion of this clot breaks away and travels through the blood vessels until eventually reaching a small enough vessel in the brain that it can no longer pass through, causing a blockage. Thrombotic strokes on the other hand are due to the formation of a blood clot directly formed in one of the arteries that supply the brain. In general, stroke is the number one leading cause of disability worldwide.,\n\n\"The middle cerebral arteries supply blood to the cortical areas involved in speech, language and swallowing. The left middle cerebral artery provides Broca's area, Wernicke's area, Heschl's gyrus, and the angular gyrus with blood\". Therefore, in patients with Wernicke's aphasia, there is typically an occlusion to the left middle cerebral artery.\n\nAs a result of the occlusion in the left middle cerebral artery, Wernicke's aphasia is most commonly caused by a lesion in the posterior superior temporal gyrus (Wernicke's area). This area is posterior to the primary auditory cortex (PAC) which is responsible for decoding individual speech sounds. Wernicke's primary responsibility is to assign meaning to these speech sounds. The extent of the lesion will determine the severity of the patients deficits related to language. Damage to the surrounding areas (perisylvian region) may also result in Wernicke's aphasia symptoms due to variation in individual neuroanatomical structure and any co-occurring damage in adjacent areas of the brain.\n\n\"Aphasia is usually first recognized by the physician who treats the person for his or her brain injury. Most individuals will undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scan to confirm the presence of a brain injury and to identify its precise location.\" In circumstances where a person is showing possible signs of aphasia, the physician will refer him or her to a speech-language pathologist (SLP) for a comprehensive speech and language evaluation. SLPs will examine the individual's ability to express him or herself through speech, understand language in written and spoken forms, write independently, and perform socially.\n\nThe American Speech, Language, Hearing Association (ASHA) states a comprehensive assessment should be conducted in order to analyze the patient's communication functioning on multiple levels; as well as the effect of possible communication deficits on activities of daily living. Typical components of an aphasia assessment include: case history, self report, oral-motor examination, language skills, identification of environmental and personal factors, and the assessment results. A comprehensive aphasia assessment includes both formal and informal measures.\n\nFormal assessments:\nInformal Assessments:\n\nInformal assessments aide in the diagnosis of patients with suspected aphasia.\n\nDiagnostic information should be scored and analyzed appropriately. Treatment plans and individual goals should be developed based on diagnostic information, as well as patient and caregiver needs, desires, and priorities.\n\nAccording to Bates et al. (2005), \"the primary goal of rehabilitation is to prevent complications, minimize impairments, and maximize function\". The topics of intensity and timing of intervention are widely debated across various fields. Results are contradictory: some studies indicate better outcomes with early intervention, while other studies indicate starting therapy too early may be detrimental to the patient's recovery. Recent research suggests, that therapy be functional and focus on communication goals that are appropriate for the patient's individual lifestyle.\n\nSpecific treatment considerations for working with individuals with Wernicke's aphasia (or those who exhibit deficits in auditory comprehension) include using familiar materials,using shorter and slower utterances when speaking, giving direct instructions, and using repetition as needed.\n\nNeuroplasticity: Role in Recovery\n\nNeuroplasticity is defined as the brain's ability to reorganize itself, lay new pathways, and rearrange existing ones, as a result of experience. Neuronal changes after damage to the brain such as collateral sprouting, increased activation of the homologous areas, and map extension demonstrate the brain's neuroplastic abilities. According to Thomson, \"Portions of the right hemisphere, extended left brain sites, or both have been shown to be recruited to perform language functions after brain damage. All of the neuronal changes recruit areas not originally or directly responsible for large portions of linguistic processing. Principles of neuroplasticity have been proven effective in neurorehabilitation after damage to the brain. These principles include: incorporating multiple modalities into treatment to create stronger neural connections, using stimuli that evoke positive emotion, linking concepts with simultaneous and related presentations, and finding the appropriate intensity and duration of treatment for each individual patient.\n\nAuditory comprehension is a primary focus in treatment for Wernicke's aphasia, as it is the main deficit related to this diagnosis. Therapy activities may include:\n\nAnomia is consistently seen in aphasia, so many treatment techniques aim to help patients with word finding problems. One example of a semantic approach is referred to as semantic feature analyses. The process includes naming the target object shown in the picture and producing words that are semantically related to the target. Through production of semantically similar features, participants develop more skilled in naming stimuli due to the increase in lexical activation.\n\nThe social approach involves a collaborative effort on behalf of patients and clinicians to determine goals and outcomes for therapy that could improve the patient's quality of life. A conversational approach is thought to provide opportunities for development and the use of strategies to overcome barriers to communication.The main goals of this treatment method are to improve the patient's conversational confidence and skills in natural contexts using conversational coaching, supported conversations, and partner training.\nAdditionally, it is important to include the families of patients with aphasia in treatment programs. Clinicians can teach family members how to support one another, and how to adjust their speaking patterns to facilitate their loved one's treatment and rehabilitation.\n\nPrognosis is strongly dependent on the location and extent of the lesion (damage) to the brain. Many personal factors also influence how a person will recover, which include age, previous medical history, level of education, gender, and motivation. All of these factors influence the brain's ability to adapt to change, restore previous skills, and learn new skills. It is important to remember that all the presentations of Receptive Aphasia may vary. The presentation of symptoms and prognosis are both dependent on personal components related to the individual's neural organization before the stroke, the extent of the damage, and the influence of environmental and behavioral factors after the damage occurs. The quicker a diagnosis of a stroke is made by a medical team, the more positive the patient's recovery may be. A medical team will work to control the signs and symptoms of the stroke and rehabilitation therapy will begin to manage and recover lost skills. The rehabilitation team may consist of a certified Speech-Language Pathologist, Physical Therapist, Occupational Therapist, and the family/caregivers. The length of therapy will be different for everyone, but research suggests that intense therapy over a short amount of time can improve outcomes of speech and language therapy for patients with aphasia. Research is not suggesting the only way therapy should be administered, but gives insight on how therapy affects the patient's prognosis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36787998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36787998", "title": "Sid Michaels Kavulich", "text": "Sid Michaels Kavulich\n\nMichael G. Kavulich (August 22, 1956 – October 16, 2018), known as Sid Michaels Kavulich, was an American politician, radio, and television broadcaster.\n\nKavulich was born in Taylor, Pennsylvania and graduated from Riverside High School. In 1976, he received his associate arts degree in broadcasting from Williamsport Area Community College. Kavulich was a radio and television broadcaster.\n\nHe was a Democratic member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. He was first elected in 2010, and was sworn-in on January 4, 2011. He served on the Aging & Older Adult Services, Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Commerce, and the Finance Committees.\n\nKavulich died on October 16, 2018, at the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, following complications from heart surgery. He was reelected unopposed on November 6, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "7211969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7211969", "title": "Simple church", "text": "Simple church\n\nThe simple church is an Evangelical Christian movement that reinterprets the nature and practice of church.\n\nA simple church may meet anywhere with or without trained leaders, formal liturgy, programs or structures. To facilitate relationship, discipleship (spiritual formation), multiplication, mobility, and member ownership, a simple church is usually a small group of no more than 20-25 persons. Most Church \"programs\" privately meet during some days of the week and discuss troubles that they are having with their faith, and personal life. Church \"programs\" are virtually nonexistent and small group participation is essential. The process of moving from worship to small group, small group to mission work, and mission work to worship is a primary focus.\n\nAuthors Tony and Felicity Dale, founders of \"House2House Ministries\", have promoted the term \"simple church\" in their book \"Simply Church\". The term is often used interchangeably with other terms like organic church, essential church, primitive church, bodylife, relational church, and micro-church.\n\nIn the early twenty-first century a number of established Christian denominations and mission organizations have officially supported efforts to develop house church networks. These include the Free Methodist Church in Canada, the Foursquare Gospel Church of Canada, the Evangelical Fellowship of Canada, the Presbyterian Church in Canada, Partners in Harvest, the Southern Baptist Convention, Dove Christian Fellowship International, DAWN Ministries (Discipling a Whole Nation), Youth With A Mission (YWAM), and Eternal Grace.\n\nMany in the simple church movement point to the New Testament, especially the Gospels, Acts, and the writings of the Apostle Paul for justification of their model (see House Church, Scriptural Basis). Historically speaking, simple gatherings of Christians were the norm of Early Christianity. Between 100AD and 300AD, Christianity grew from 25,000 to 20 million people in the Roman Empire. In fact, much of the New Testament was written to people who met in house churches.\n\nEarly Christian house churches were patterned after house synagogues which were numerous. Christians took a low-cost and easy-to-multiply model and adapted it to their new Christian context. In addition, the Communion service, sometimes called the Lord's Supper, was uniquely Christian (though modeled on the Passover). Since it did not apply to Jews and therefore did not fit in the Jewish synagogues, it had to be celebrated somewhere else. House churches were the natural place for communion to be shared. As time went on, Christians were banned from Jewish synagogues as persecution intensified (see Split of early Christianity and Judaism). Although house churches flourished in times of persecution, they were well-established before them.\n\nIn the West, simple church can be traced back to the house church movement. In North America and the UK particularly, the house church movement is often viewed as a development and logical extension of the 'Brethren' or Plymouth Brethren movement, where many individuals and assemblies have adopted new approaches to worship and governance, while others recognise a relationship to the Anabaptists, Quakers, Amish, Hutterites, Mennonites, Moravians, Methodists, and the much earlier Waldenses and Priscillianists. Another perspective sees the house church movement as a re-emergence of the movement of the Holy Spirit during the Jesus Movement of the 1970s in the USA or the worldwide Charismatic Renewal of the late 1960s and 1970s. Others see it as a return to a New Testament church restorationist paradigm and a restoration of God's eternal purpose and the natural expression of Christ on the earth, urging Christians to return from hierarchy and rank to practices described and encouraged in Scripture.\n\nSimple church has also been influenced by overseas missions and the growth of church planting movements. Church planting movements are spontaneously growing church multiplication efforts.\n\nThe missional Movement has also influenced simple church.\n\nSIMPLE-CHURCH IN THE U.K.\nSimpleChurch movement has begun to emerge in the Unoted Kingdon. House Churches have existed for some years in places where traditional churches have closed, or not met the needs of evangelicals (or charismatics). Due in some cases to the Church of England being perceived to have moved away from biblical doctrines.\nA website promoting Simple Church in the U.K. is at simplechurch.org.uk\n\nAs in any decentralized, spontaneous movement, a variety of values are expressed in simple church. Due to the influence of some key groups and Acts 2:42-47, three overarching values have emerged in many circles. Adherents Paul Kaak (who began ministry in one of the largest and most systematized mega-churches in America) and Neil Cole originally articulated these values using the letters DNA. According to him:\n\nThese values have since been promoted by House2House Ministries and DAWN North America, and have been adopted by various groups such as New York's MetroSoul\n\nAdherents George Barna and Frank Viola's book \"Pagan Christianity\" points out a number of reforms that organic churches often advocate.\n\nIn the early twenty–first century the growth of the movement has had increased news media coverage:\n\nMany books have been written on the simple church movement, especially by insiders (see House Church, Recommended Books). In the early twentyfirst century books began to appear by those studying the movement from a more objective view, including George Barna's \"Revolution\". Barna says that \"revolutionary\" expressions such as simple church will soon account for one third of American spirituality.\n\nVisibility of the movement also increased due to national and regional gatherings of various kinds. The largest of these is the Annual House Church Conference held in Dallas, USA and occasionally at other locations by House2House.\n\nHow the simple church movement relates to constructing a theology and ecclesiology is the subject of much debate, especially with critics of the movement.\n\nSeveral prominent voices have serious concerns about simple church. For example, J. Lee Grady (Charisma Online Editor) says such a movement wants to \"reinvent the church without its biblical structure and New Testament order — and without the necessary people who are anointed and appointed by God to lead it. To follow this defective thesis to its logical conclusion would require us to fire all pastors, close all seminaries and Bible colleges, padlock our sanctuaries and send everybody home...\" Grady and other critics worry that the simple church movement could encourage people to leave more traditional forms of church, which could lead to further collapse or decline of Christendom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3488015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488015", "title": "Stunted growth", "text": "Stunted growth\n\nStunted growth, also known as stunting and nutritional stunting, is a reduced growth rate in human development. It is a primary manifestation of malnutrition (or more precisely undernutrition) and recurrent infections, such as diarrhea and helminthiasis, in early childhood and even before birth, due to malnutrition during fetal development brought on by a malnourished mother. The definition of stunting according to the World Health Organization (WHO) is for the \"height for age\" value to be less than two standard deviations of the WHO Child Growth Standards median.\n\nAs of 2012 an estimated 162 million children under 5 years of age, or 25%, were stunted in 2012. More than 90% of the world's stunted children live in Africa and Asia, where respectively 36% and 56% of children are affected. Once established, stunting and its effects typically become permanent. Stunted children may never regain the height lost as a result of stunting, and most children will never gain the corresponding body weight. Living in an environment where many people defecate in the open due to lack of sanitation, is an important cause of stunted growth in children, for example in India.\n\nStunted growth in children has the following public health impacts apart from the obvious impact of shorter stature of the person affected:\n\nThe impact of stunting on child development has been established in multiple studies. If a child is stunted at age 2 they will have higher risk of poor cognitive and educational achievement in life, with subsequent socio-economic and inter-generational consequences. Multi-country studies have also suggested that stunting is associated with reductions in schooling, decreased economic productivity and poverty. Stunted children also display higher risk of developing chronic non-communicable conditions such as diabetes and obesity as adults. If a stunted child undergoes substantial weight gain after age 2, there is a higher chance of becoming obese. This is believed to be caused by metabolic changes produced by chronic malnutrition, that can produce metabolic imbalances if the individual is exposed to excessive or poor quality diets as an adult. This can lead to higher risk of developing other related non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, coronary heart disease, metabolic syndrome and stroke. \nAt societal level, stunted individuals do not fulfill their physical and cognitive developmental potential and will not be able to contribute maximally to society. Stunting can therefore limit economic development and productivity, and it has been estimated that it can affect a country's GDP up to 3%.\n\nThe causes for stunting are principally very similar if not the same as the causes for malnutrition in children. Most stunting happens during the 1,000-day period that spans from conception to a child's second birthday. The three main causes of stunting in South Asia, and probably in most developing countries, are poor feeding practices, poor maternal nutrition, and poor sanitation.\n\nInadequate complementary child feeding and a general lack of vital nutrients beside pure caloric intake is one cause for stunted growth. Children need to be fed diets which meet the minimum requirements in terms of frequency and diversity in order to prevent undernutrition.\n\nPoor maternal nutrition during pregnancy and breastfeeding can lead to stunted growth of their children. Women who are underweight or anemic during pregnancy, are more likely to have stunted children which perpetuates the inter-generational transmission of stunting. Children born with low birthweight are more at risk of stunting.\n\nThere is most likely a link between children's linear growth and household sanitation practices. The ingestion of high quantities of fecal bacteria by young children through putting soiled fingers or household items in the mouth leads to intestinal infections. This affect children's nutritional status by diminishing appetite, reducing nutrient absorption, and increasing nutrient losses.\n\nThe diseases recurrent diarrhoea and intestinal worm infections (helminthiasis) which are both linked to poor sanitation have been shown to contribute to child stunting. The evidence that a condition called environmental enteropathy also stunts children is not conclusively available yet, although the link is plausible and several studies are underway on this topic. Environmental enteropathy is a syndrome causing changes in the small intestine of persons and can be brought on due to lacking basic sanitary facilities and being exposed to faecal contamination on a long-term basis.\n\nResearch on a global level has found that the proportion of stunting that could be attributed to five or more episodes of diarrhoea before two years of age was 25%. Since diarrhoea is closely linked with water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), this is a good indicator for the connection between WASH and stunted growth. To what extent improvements in drinking water safety, toilet use and good handwashing practices contribute to reduce stunting depends on the how bad these practices were prior to interventions.\n\nGrowth stunting is identified by comparing measurements of children's heights to the World Health Organization 2006 growth reference population: children who fall below the fifth percentile of the reference population in height for age are defined as stunted, regardless of the reason. The lower than fifth percentile corresponds to less than two standard deviations of the WHO Child Growth Standards median.\n\nAs an indicator of nutritional status, comparisons of children's measurements with growth reference curves may be used differently for populations of children than for individual children. The fact that an individual child falls below the fifth percentile for height for age on a growth reference curve may reflect normal variation in growth within a population: the individual child may be short simply because both parents carried genes for shortness and not because of inadequate nutrition. However, if substantially more than 5% of an identified child population have height for age that is less than the fifth percentile on the reference curve, then the population is said to have a higher-than-expected prevalence of stunting, and malnutrition is generally the first cause considered.\n\nThree main things are needed to reduce stunting:\nTo prevent stunting, it is not just a matter of providing better nutrition but also access to clean water, improved sanitation (hygienic toilets) and hand washing at critical times (summarised as \"WASH\"). Without provision of toilets, prevention of tropical intestinal diseases, which may affect almost all children in the developing world and lead to stunting will not be possible.\n\nStudies have looked at ranking the underlying determinants in terms of their potency in reducing child stunting and found in the order of potency:\nThree of these determinants should receive attention in particular: access to sanitation, diversity of calorie sources from food supplies, and women's empowerment. A study by the Institute of Development Studies has stressed that: \"The first two should be prioritized because they have strong impacts yet are farthest below their desired levels\".\n\nThe goal of UN agencies, governments and NGO is now to optimise nutrition during the first 1000 days of a child's life, from pregnancy to the child's second birthday, in order to reduce the prevalence of stunting. The first 1000 days in a child's life are a crucial \"window of opportunity\" because the brain develops rapidly, laying the foundation for future cognitive and social ability. Furthermore, it is also the time when young children are the most at risk of infections that lead to diarrhoea. It is the time when they stop breast feeding (weaning process), begin to crawl, put things in their mouths and become exposed to faecal matter from open defecation and environmental enteropathies.\n\nEnsuring proper nutrition of pregnant and lactating mothers is essential. Achieving so by helping women of reproductive age be in good nutritional status at conception is an excellent preventive measure. A focus on the pre-conception period has recently been introduced as a complement to the key phase of the 1000 days of pregnancy and first two years of life. An example of this is are attempts to control anemia in women of reproductive age. A well-nourished mother is the first step of stunting prevention, decreasing chances of the baby being born of low birth-weight, which is the first risk factor for future malnutrition.\n\nAfter birth, in terms of interventions for the child, early initiation of breastfeeding, together with exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months, are pillars of stunting prevention. Introducing proper complementary feeding after 6 months of age together with breastfeeding until age 2 is the next step.\n\nIn summary, key policy interventions for the prevention of stunting are: \n\nAccording to the World Health organisation if less than 20% of the population is affected by stunting, this is regarded as  \"low prevalence\" in terms of public health significance. Values of 40% or more are regarded as very high prevalence, and values in between as medium to high prevalence.\n\nUNICEF has estimated that: \"Globally, more than one quarter (26 per cent) of children under 5 years of age were stunted in 2011 – roughly 165 million children worldwide.\" and \"In sub-Saharan Africa, 40 per cent of children under 5 years of age are stunted; in South Asia, 39 per cent are stunted.\" The four countries with the highest prevalence are Timor-Leste, Burundi, Niger and Madagascar where more than half of children under 5 years old are stunted.\n\nAs of 2015, it was estimated that there were 156 million stunted children under 5 in the world, 90% of them living in low and low-middle income countries. 56% of these were in Asia, and 37% in Africa. It is possible that some of these children concurrently had other forms of malnutrition, including wasting and stunting, and overweight and stunting. No statistics are currently available for these combined conditions. Stunting has been on the decline for the past 15 years, but this decline has been too slow. As a comparison, there were 255 million stunted children in 1990, 224 in 1995, 198 in 2000, 182 in 2005, 169 in 2010, and 156 in 2016.\nThe decline is happening, but it is uneven geographically, it is unequal among different groups in society, and prevalence of stunting remains at unacceptably high numbers. Too many children who are not able to fulfill their genetic physical and cognitive developmental potential.\n\nOver the period 2000-2015, Asia reduced its stunting prevalence from 38 to 24%, Africa from 38 to 32%, and Latin America and the Caribbean from 18 to 11%. This equates to a relative reduction of 36, 17 and 39% respectively, indicating that Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean have displayed much larger improvements than Africa, which needs to address this issue with much more effort if it is to win the battle against a problem that has been crippling its development for decades. Of these regions, Latin America and the Caribbean are on track to achieve global targets set with global initiatives such as the United Nations Millennium Development Goals and the World Health Assembly targets (see following section on global targets).\n\nSub-regional stunting rates are as follows: In Africa, the highest rates are observed in East Africa (37.5%). All other Sub-Saharan sub-regions also have high rates, with 32.1% in West Africa, 31.2% in Central Africa, and 28.4% in Southern Africa. North Africa is at 18%, and the Middle East at 16.2%. In Asia, the highest rate is observed in South Asia at 34.4%. South-East Asia is at 26.3%. Pacific Islands also display a high rate at 38.2%. Central and South America are respectively at 15.6 and 9.9%. South Asia, given its very high population at over 1 billion and high prevalence rate of stunting, is the region currently hosting the highest absolute number of children with stunting (60 million plus).\n\nLooking at absolute numbers of children under 5 affected by stunting, it is obvious why current efforts and reductions are insufficient. The absolute number of stunted children has increased in Africa from 50.4 to 58.5 million in the time 2000-2015. This is despite the reduction in percentage prevalence of stunting, and is due to the high rates of population growth. The data therefore indicate that the rate of reduction of stunting in Africa has not been able to counterbalance the increased number of growing children that fall into the trap of malnutrition, due to population growth in the region. This is also true in Oceania, unlike Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean where substantial absolute reductions in the number of stunted children have been observed (for example, Asia reduced its number of stunted children from 133 million to 88 million between 2000 and 2015).\n\nThe reduction in stunting is closely linked to poverty reduction and the will and ability of governments to set up solid multisectoral approaches to reduce chronic malnutrition. Low income countries are the only group with more stunted children today than in the year 2000. Conversely, all other countries (high-income, upper-middle income, lower-middle income) have achieved reductions in the numbers of stunted children. This sadly perpetuates a vicious cycle of poverty and malnutrition, whereby malnourished children are not able to maximally contribute to economic development as adults, and poverty increases chances of malnutrition.\n\nThe Water and Sanitation Program of the World Bank has investigated links between lack of sanitation and stunting in Vietnam and Lao PDR. For example, in Vietnam it was found that lack of sanitation in rural villages in mountainous regions of Vietnam led to five-year-old children being 3.7 cm shorter than healthy children living in villages with good access to sanitation. This difference in height is irreversible and matters a great deal for a child's cognitive development and future productive potential.\n\nThe Lancet has published two comprehensive series on maternal and child nutrition, in 2008 and 2013. The series review the epidemiology of global malnutrition and analyze the state of the evidence for cost-effective interventions that should be scaled-up to achieve impact and global targets. In the first of such series, investigators define the importance of the 1000 day and identify child malnutrition as being responsible for one third of all child deaths worldwide. This finding is key in that it points at malnutrition as a key determinant of child mortality that is often overlooked. When a child dies of pneumonia, malaria or diarrhea (some of the causes of child mortality in the world), it may well be that malnutrition is a key contributing factor that prevents the body from successfully fighting the infection and recovering from the disease. In the follow up series in 2013, the focus on undernutrition is expanded to the increasing burden of obesity in both high, middle and low income countries. Several countries with high levels of child stunting and undernutrition are starting to display worrisome increasing trends of child obesity concurrently, due to increased wealth and the persistence of significant inequalities. The challenges these countries face are particularly difficult as they require intervening on two levels on what has come to be called “double burden of malnutrition”. As an example, in India 30% of children under 5 years of age are stunted, and 20% are overweight. Neglecting these nutritional problems is not an option anymore if countries are to escape poverty traps and provide opportunities to their people to live fulfilling productive lives without stunting.\n\nThe 2012 World Health Assembly, with its 194 member states, convened to discuss global issues of maternal, infant and young child nutrition, and developed a plan with 6 targets for 2025. The first of such targets aims to reduce by 40% the number of children who are stunted in the world, by 2025. This would correspond to 100 million stunted children in 2025. At the current reduction rate, the predicted number in 2025 will be 127 million, indicating the need to scale-up and intensify efforts if the global community is to reach its goals.\n\nThe World Bank estimates that the extra cost to achieve the reduction goal will be $8.50 yearly per stunted child, for a total of $49.6 Billion for the next decade. Stunting has been shown to be one of the most cost-effective global health problems to invest in, with an estimated return on investment of $18 for every dollar spent thanks to its impact on economic productivity. Despite the evidence in favor of investing in the reduction of stunting, current investments are too low at about $2.9 billion per year, with $1.6 billion coming from Governments, $0.2 billion from donors, and $1.1 paid by individuals.\n\nIn 2015, the United Nations and its member states agreed on a new sustainable development agenda to promote prosperity and reduce poverty, putting forward 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved by 2030. SDG 2 aims to “End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture”. Sub-goal 2.2. aims to “by 2030 end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving by 2025 the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under five years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women, and older persons”.\n\nThe global community has recognized more and more the critical importance of stunting during the past decade. Investments to address it have increased but remain far from being sufficient to solve it and unleash the human potential that remains trapped in malnutrition.\n\nThe \"Scaling Up Nutrition Movement (SUN)\" movement is the main network of governments, non-governmental and international organizations, donors, private companies and academic institutions working together in pursuit of improved global nutrition and a world without hunger and malnutrition. It was launched at the UN General Assembly of 2010 and it calls for country-led multi-sectoral strategies to address child malnutrition by scaling-up evidence-based interventions in both nutrition specific and sensitive areas. As of 2016, 50 countries have joined the SUN Movement with strategies that are aligned with international frameworks of action.\n\nBrazil displayed a remarkable reduction in the rates of child stunting under age 5, from 37% in 1974, to 7.1% in 2007. This happened in association with impressive social and economic development that reduced the numbers of Brazilians living in extreme poverty (less than $1.25 per day) from 25.6% in 1990 to 4.8% in 2008. The successful reduction in child malnutrition in Brazil can be attributed to strong political commitment that led to improvements in the water and sanitation system, increased female schooling, scale-up of quality maternal and child health services, increased economic power at family level (including successful cash transfer programs), and improvements in food security throughout the country.\n\nAfter a decade (1995–2005) in which stunting rates stagnated in the country, Peru designed and implemented a national strategy against child malnutrition called crecer (\"grow\"), which complemented a social development conditional cash-transfer program called juntos, which included a nutritional component. The strategy was multisectoral in that it involved the health, education, water, sanitation and hygiene, agriculture and housing sectors and stakeholders. It was led by the Government and the Prime Minister himself, and included non-governmental partners at both central, regional and community level. After the strategy was implemented, stunting went from 22.9% to 17.9% (2005–2010), with very significant improvements in rural areas where it had been more difficult to reduce stunting rates in the past.\n\nThe State of Maharashtra in Central-Western India has been able to produce an impressive reduction in stunting rates in children under 2 years of age from 44% to 22.8% in the 2005–2012 period. This is particularly remarkable given the immense challenges India has faced to address malnutrition, and that the country hosts almost half of all stunted children under 5 in the world. This was achieved through integrated community-based programs that were designed by a central advisory body that promoted multisectoral collaboration, provided advice to policy-makers on evidence-based solutions, and advocated for the key role of the 1000 days (pregnancy and first two years of life).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "510323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510323", "title": "Sumatran rhinoceros", "text": "Sumatran rhinoceros\n\nThe Sumatran rhinoceros, also known as the hairy rhinoceros or Asian two-horned rhinoceros (\"Dicerorhinus sumatrensis\"), is a rare member of the family Rhinocerotidae and one of five extant rhinoceroses. It is the only extant species of the genus Dicerorhinus. It is the smallest rhinoceros, although it is still a large mammal; it stands high at the shoulder, with a head-and-body length of and a tail of . The weight is reported to range from , averaging , although there is a single record of a specimen. Like both African species, it has two horns; the larger is the nasal horn, typically , while the other horn is typically a stub. A coat of reddish-brown hair covers most of the Sumatran rhino's body.\n\nMembers of the species once inhabited rainforests, swamps, and cloud forests in India, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, and China. In historical times, they lived in southwest China, particularly in Sichuan. They are now critically endangered, with only five substantial populations in the wild: four on Sumatra and one on Borneo. Their numbers are difficult to determine because they are solitary animals that are widely scattered across their range, but they are estimated to number fewer than 100. Survival of the Peninsular Malaysia population is in doubt, and one of the Sumatran populations may already be extinct. In 2015, researchers announced that the Bornean rhinoceros had become extinct from the northern part of Borneo (Sabah, Malaysia); however, a tiny population was discovered in East Kalimantan in early 2016.\n\nThe Sumatran rhino is a mostly solitary animal except for courtship and offspring-rearing. It is the most vocal rhino species and also communicates through marking soil with its feet, twisting saplings into patterns, and leaving excrement. The species is much better studied than the similarly reclusive Javan rhinoceros, in part because of a program that brought 40 Sumatran rhinos into captivity with the goal of preserving the species. There was little or no information about procedures that would assist in \"ex situ\" breeding. Though a number of rhinos died once at the various destinations and no offspring were produced for nearly 20 years, the rhinos were all doomed in their soon to be logged forest. In March 2016, a Sumatran rhinoceros (of the Bornean rhinoceros subspecies) was spotted in Indonesian Borneo.\n\nThe first documented Sumatran rhinoceros was shot outside Fort Marlborough, near the west coast of Sumatra, in 1793. Drawings of the animal, and a written description, were sent to the naturalist Joseph Banks, then president of the Royal Society of London, who published a paper on the specimen that year. In 1814, the species was given a scientific name by Johann Fischer von Waldheim, a German scientist and curator of the State Darwin Museum in Moscow, Russia.\n\nThe scientific name \"Dicerorhinus sumatrensis\" comes from the Greek terms ' (, meaning \"two\"), ' (, meaning \"horn\"), and ' (, meaning \"nose\"). \"Sumatrensis\" signifies \"of Sumatra\", the Indonesian island where the rhinos were first discovered. Carl Linnaeus originally classified all rhinos in the genus, \"Rhinoceros\"; therefore, the species was originally identified as \"Rhinoceros sumatrensis\" or \"sumatranus\". Joshua Brookes considered the Sumatran rhinoceros, with its two horns, a distinct genus from the one-horned \"Rhinoceros\", and gave it the name \"Didermocerus\" in 1828. Constantin Wilhelm Lambert Gloger proposed the name \"Dicerorhinus\" in 1841. In 1868, John Edward Gray proposed the name \"Ceratorhinus\". Normally, the oldest name would be used, but a 1977 ruling by the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature established the proper genus name as \"Dicerorhinus\".\n\nThe three subspecies are:\n\nD. s. sumatrensis, known as the Western Sumatran rhinoceros, which has only 75 to 85 rhinos remaining, mostly in the national parks of Bukit Barisan Selatan and Kerinci Seblat, Gunung Leuser in Sumatra, but also in Way Kambas National Park in small numbers. They have recently gone extinct in Peninsular Malaysia. The main threats against this subspecies are habitat loss and poaching. A slight genetic difference is noted between the Western Sumatran and Bornean rhinos. The rhinos in Peninsular Malaysia were once known as \"D. s. niger\", but were later recognized to be a synonym of \"D. s. sumatrensis\". Three males and four females currently live in captivity at the Sumatran Rhino Sanctuary at Way Kambas, the youngest male having been bred and born there in 2012. Another calf, a female, was born at the sanctuary in May 2016. The sanctuary's two males were born at the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden.\n\nD. s. harrissoni, known as the Bornean Rhinoceros or Eastern Sumatran rhinoceros, which was once common throughout Borneo; now, only about 15 individuals are estimated to survive. The known population lives in East Kalimantan, with them having recently gone extinct in Sabah. Reports of animals surviving in Sarawak are unconfirmed. This subspecies is named after Tom Harrisson, who worked extensively with Bornean zoology and anthropology in the 1960s. The Bornean subspecies is markedly smaller in body size than the other two subspecies. The captive population consists of one male and two females at the Borneo Rhinoceros Sanctuary in Sabah.\n\nD. s. lasiotis, known as the Northern Sumatran rhinoceros or Chittagong rhinoceros, which once roamed India and Bangladesh, has been declared extinct in these countries. Unconfirmed reports suggest a small population may still survive in Myanmar, but the political situation in that country has prevented verification. The name \"lasiotis\" is derived from the Greek for \"hairy-ears\". Later studies showed that their ear-hair was not longer than other Sumatran rhinos, but \"D. s. lasiotis\" remained a subspecies because it was significantly larger than the other subspecies.\n\nAncestral rhinoceroses first diverged from other perissodactyls in the Early Eocene. Mitochondrial DNA comparison suggests the ancestors of modern rhinos split from the ancestors of Equidae around 50 million years ago. The extant family, the Rhinocerotidae, first appeared in the Late Eocene in Eurasia, and the ancestors of the extant rhino species dispersed from Asia beginning in the Miocene.\n\nThe Sumatran rhinoceros is considered the least derived of the extant species, as it shares more traits with its Miocene ancestors. Paleontological evidence in the fossil record dates the genus \"Dicerorhinus\" to the Early Miocene, 23–16 million years ago. Many fossils have been classified as members of \"Dicerorhinus\", but no other recent species are in the genus. Molecular dating suggests the split of \"Dicerorhinus\" from the four other extant species as far back as 25.9 ± 1.9 million years. Three hypotheses have been proposed for the relationship between the Sumatran rhinoceros and the other living species. One hypothesis suggests the Sumatran rhinoceros is closely related to the black and white rhinos in Africa, evidenced by the species having two horns, instead of one. Other taxonomists regard the Sumatran rhinoceros as a sister taxon of the Indian and Javan rhinoceros because their ranges overlap so closely. A third hypothesis, based on more recent analyses, however, suggests that the two African rhinos, the two Asian rhinos, and the Sumatran rhinoceros represent three essentially separate lineages that split around 25.9 million years ago; which group diverged first remains unclear.\n\nBecause of morphological similarities, the Sumatran rhinoceros is believed to be closely related to the extinct woolly rhinoceros (\"Coelodonta antiquitatis\"). The woolly rhinoceros, so named for the coat of hair it shares with the Sumatran rhinoceros, first appeared in China; by the Upper Pleistocene, it ranged across the Eurasian continent from Korea to Spain. The woolly rhinoceros survived the last Ice Age, but, like the woolly mammoth, most or all became extinct around 10,000 years ago. Although some morphological studies questioned the relationship, recent molecular analysis has supported the two species as sister taxa.\n\nA mature Sumatran rhino stands about high at the shoulder, has a body length of around , and weighs , though the largest individuals in zoos have been known to weigh as much as . Like the two African species, it has two horns. The larger is the nasal horn, typically only , though the longest recorded specimen was much longer at . The posterior horn is much smaller, usually less than long, and often little more than a knob. The larger nasal horn is also known as the anterior horn; the smaller posterior horn is known as the frontal horn. The horns are dark grey or black in color. The males have larger horns than the females, though the species is not otherwise sexually dimorphic. The Sumatran rhino lives an estimated 30–45 years in the wild, while the record time in captivity is a female \"D. lasiotis\", which lived for 32 years and 8 months before dying in the London Zoo in 1900.\n\nTwo thick folds of skin encircle the body behind the front legs and before the hind legs. The rhino has a smaller fold of skin around its neck. The skin itself is thin, , and in the wild, the rhino appears to have no subcutaneous fat. Hair can range from dense (the most dense hair in young calves) to scarce, and is usually a reddish brown. In the wild, this hair is hard to observe because the rhinos are often covered in mud. In captivity, however, the hair grows out and becomes much shaggier, likely because of less abrasion from walking through vegetation. The rhino has a patch of long hair around its ears and a thick clump of hair at the end of its tail. Like all rhinos, they have very poor vision. The Sumatran rhinoceros is fast and agile; it climbs mountains easily and comfortably traverses steep slopes and riverbanks.\n\nThe Sumatran rhinoceros lives in both lowland and highland secondary rainforest, swamps, and cloud forests. It inhabits hilly areas close to water, particularly steep upper valleys with copious undergrowth. The Sumatran rhinoceros once inhabited a continuous range as far north as Burma, eastern India, and Bangladesh. Unconfirmed reports also placed it in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. All known living animals occur in Peninsular Malaysia, the island of Sumatra, and Sabah, Borneo. Some conservationists hope Sumatran rhinos may still survive in Burma, though it is considered unlikely. Political turmoil in Burma has prevented any assessment or study of possible survivors. The last reports of stray animals from Indian limits were in 1990s.\n\nThe Sumatran rhino is widely scattered across its range, much more so than the other Asian rhinos, which has made it difficult for conservationists to protect members of the species effectively. Only five areas are known to contain Sumatran rhinoceros: Bukit Barisan Selatan National Park, Gunung Leuser National Park, and Way Kambas National Park on Sumatra; Danum Valley in Sabah, Malaysia, on the island of Borneo, and on Indonesian Borneo west of Samarindah.\n\nThe Kerinci Seblat National Park, Sumatra's largest, was estimated to contain a population of around 500 rhinos in the 1980s, but due to poaching, this population is now considered extinct. The survival of any animals in Peninsular Malaysia is extremely unlikely.\nGenetic analysis of Sumatran rhino populations has identified three distinct genetic lineages. The channel between Sumatra and Malaysia was not as significant a barrier for the rhinos as the Barisan Mountains along the length of Sumatra, for rhinos in eastern Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia are more closely related than the rhinos on the other side of the mountains in western Sumatra. In fact, the eastern Sumatra and Malaysia rhinos show so little genetic variance, the populations were likely not separate during the Pleistocene, when sea levels were much lower and Sumatra formed part of the mainland. Both populations of Sumatra and Malaysia, however, are close enough genetically that interbreeding would not be problematic. The rhinos of Borneo are sufficiently distinct that conservation geneticists have advised against crossing their lineages with the other populations. Conservation geneticists have recently begun to study the diversity of the gene pool within these populations by identifying microsatellite loci. The results of initial testing found levels of variability within Sumatran rhino populations comparable to those in the population of the less endangered African rhinos, but the genetic diversity of Sumatran rhinos is an area of continuing study.\n\nAlthough the rhino had been thought to be extinct in Kalimantan since the 1990s, in March 2013 World Wildlife Fund (WWF) announced that the team when monitoring orangutan activity found in West Kutai Regency, East Kalimantan, several fresh rhino foot trails, mud holes, traces of rhino-rubbed trees, traces of rhino horns on the walls of mud holes, and rhino bites on small branches. The team also identified that rhinos ate more than 30 species of plants. On 2 October 2013, video images made with camera traps showing the Sumatran rhino in Kutai Barat, Kalimantan, were released by the World Wildlife Fund. Experts assume the videos show two different animals, but aren't quite certain. According to the Indonesia's Minister of Forestry, Zulkifli Hasan called the video evidence \"very important\" and mentioned Indonesia's \"target of rhino population growth by three percent per year\". On 22 March 2016 it was announced by the WWF that a live Sumatran Rhino was found in Kalimantan; it was the first contact in over 40 years. The rhino, a female, is being transported to a nearby sanctuary.\n\nSumatran rhinoceroses are solitary creatures except for pairing before mating and during offspring rearing. Individuals have home ranges; bulls have territories as large as , whereas females' ranges are . The ranges of females appear to be spaced apart; males' ranges often overlap. No evidence indicates Sumatran rhinos defend their territories through fighting. Marking their territories is done by scraping soil with their feet, bending saplings into distinctive patterns, and leaving excrement. The Sumatran rhino is usually most active when eating, at dawn, and just after dusk. During the day, they wallow in mud baths to cool down and rest. In the rainy season, they move to higher elevations; in the cooler months, they return to lower areas in their range. When mud holes are unavailable, the rhino will deepen puddles with its feet and horns. The wallowing behaviour helps the rhino maintain its body temperature and protect its skin from ectoparasites and other insects. Captive specimens, deprived of adequate wallowing, have quickly developed broken and inflamed skins, suppurations, eye problems, inflamed nails, and hair loss, and have eventually died. One 20-month study of wallowing behavior found they will visit no more than three wallows at any given time. After two to 12 weeks using a particular wallow, the rhino will abandon it. Typically, the rhino will wallow around midday for two to three hours at a time before venturing out for food. Although in zoos the Sumatran rhino has been observed wallowing less than 45 minutes a day, the study of wild animals found 80–300 minutes (an average of 166 minutes) per day spent in wallows.\n\nThere has been little opportunity to study epidemiology in the Sumatran rhinoceros. Ticks and gyrostigma were reported to cause deaths in captive animals in the 19th century. The rhino is also known to be vulnerable to the blood disease surra, which can be spread by horse-flies carrying parasitic trypanosomes; in 2004, all five rhinos at the Sumatran Rhinoceros Conservation Centre died over an 18-day period after becoming infected by the disease. The Sumatran rhino has no known predators other than humans. Tigers and wild dogs may be capable of killing a calf, but calves stay close to their mothers, and the frequency of such killings is unknown. Although the rhino's range overlaps with elephants and tapirs, the species do not appear to compete for food or habitat. Elephants (\"Elephas maximus\") and Sumatran rhinos are even known to share trails, and many smaller species such as deer, boars, and wild dogs will use the trails the rhinos and elephants create.\n\nThe Sumatran rhino maintains trails across its range. These trails fall into two types. Main trails will be used by generations of rhinos to travel between important areas in the rhino's range, such as between salt licks, or in corridors through inhospitable terrain that separates ranges. In feeding areas, the rhinos will make smaller trails, still covered by vegetation, to areas containing food the rhino eats. Sumatran rhino trails have been found that cross rivers deeper than and about across. The currents of these rivers are known to be strong, but the rhino is a strong swimmer. A relative absence of wallows near rivers in the range of the Sumatran rhinoceros indicates they may occasionally bathe in rivers in lieu of wallowing.\n\nMost feeding occurs just before nightfall and in the morning. The Sumatran rhino is a folivore, with a diet of young saplings, leaves, twigs, and shoots. The rhinos usually consume up to of food a day. Primarily by measuring dung samples, researchers have identified more than 100 food species consumed by the Sumatran rhinoceros. The largest portion of the diet is tree saplings with a trunk diameter of . The rhinoceros typically pushes these saplings over with its body, walking over the sapling without stepping on it, to eat the leaves. Many of the plant species the rhino consumes exist in only small portions, which indicates the rhino is frequently changing its diet and feeding in different locations. Among the most common plants the rhino eats are many species from the Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, and Melastomataceae families. The most common species the rhino consumes is \"Eugenia\".\n\nThe vegetal diet of the Sumatran rhinoceros is high in fiber and only moderate in protein. Salt licks are very important to the nutrition of the rhino. These licks can be small hot springs, seepages of salty water, or mud-volcanoes. The salt licks also serve an important social purpose for the rhinos—males visit the licks to pick up the scent of females in oestrus. Some Sumatran rhinos, however, live in areas where salt licks are not readily available, or the rhinos have not been observed using the licks. These rhinos may get their necessary mineral requirements by consuming plants rich in minerals.\n\nThe Sumatran rhinoceros is the most vocal of the rhinoceros species. Observations of the species in zoos show the animal almost constantly vocalizing, and it is known to do so in the wild, as well. The rhino makes three distinct noises: eeps, \"whales\", and whistle-blows. The eep, a short, one-second-long yelp, is the most common sound. The whale, named for its similarity to vocalizations of the humpback whale, is the most song-like vocalization and the second-most common. The whale varies in pitch and lasts from four to seven seconds. The whistle-blow is named because it consists of a two-second-long whistling noise and a burst of air in immediate succession. The whistle-blow is the loudest of the vocalizations, loud enough to make the iron bars in the zoo enclosure where the rhinos were studied vibrate. The purpose of the vocalizations is unknown, though they are theorized to convey danger, sexual readiness, and location, as do other ungulate vocalizations. The whistle-blow could be heard at a great distance, even in the dense brush in which the Sumatran rhino lives. A vocalization of similar volume from elephants has been shown to carry and the whistle-blow may carry as far. The Sumatran rhinoceros will sometimes twist the saplings they do not eat. This twisting behavior is believed to be used as a form of communication, frequently indicating a junction in a trail.\n\nFemales become sexually mature at the age of six to seven years, while males become sexually mature at about 10 years old. The gestation period is around 15–16 months. The calf, which typically weighs , is weaned after about 15 months and stays with its mother for the first two to three years of its life. In the wild, the birth interval for this species is estimated to be four to five years; its natural offspring-rearing behavior is unstudied.\n\nThe reproductive habits of the Sumatran rhinoceros have been studied in captivity. Sexual relationships begin with a courtship period characterized by increased vocalization, tail raising, urination, and increased physical contact, with both male and female using their snouts to bump the other in the head and genitals. The pattern of courtship is most similar to that of the black rhinoceros. Young Sumatran rhino males are often too aggressive with females, sometimes injuring and even killing them during the courtship. In the wild, the female could run away from an overly aggressive male, but in their smaller captive enclosures, they cannot; this inability to escape aggressive males may partly contribute to the low success rate of captive-breeding programs.\n\nThe period of oestrus itself, when the female is receptive to the male, lasts about 24 hours, and observations have placed its recurrence between 21 and 25 days. Rhinos in the Cincinnati Zoo have been observed copulating for 30–50 minutes, similar in length to other rhinos; observations at the Sumatran Rhinoceros Conservation Centre in Malaysia have shown a briefer copulation cycle. As the Cincinnati Zoo has had successful pregnancies, and other rhinos also have lengthy copulatory periods, a lengthy rut may be the natural behavior. Though researchers observed successful conceptions, all these pregnancies ended in failure for a variety of reasons until the first successful captive birth in 2001; studies of these failures at the Cincinnati Zoo discovered the Sumatran rhino's ovulation is induced by mating and it had unpredictable progesterone levels. Breeding success was finally achieved in 2001, 2004, and 2007 by providing a pregnant rhino with supplementary progestin.\nRecently, a calf was born in captivity of an endangered female in western Indonesia, only the fifth such birth in one and a quarter century.\n\nSumatran rhinoceroses were once quite numerous throughout Southeast Asia. Fewer than 100 individuals are now estimated to remain. The species is classed as critically endangered (primarily due to illegal poaching) while the last survey in 2008 estimated that around 250 individuals survived. From the early 1990s, the population decline was estimated at more than 50% per decade, and the small, scattered populations now face high risks of inbreeding depression. Most remaining habitat is in relatively inaccessible mountainous areas of Indonesia.\n\nPoaching of Sumatran rhinoceros is a cause for concern, as the price of its horn has been estimated as high as US$30,000 per kilogram. This species has been overhunted for many centuries, leading to the current greatly reduced – and still declining – population. The rhinos are difficult to observe and hunt directly (one field researcher spent seven weeks in a treehide near a salt lick without ever observing a rhino directly), so poachers make use of spear traps and pit traps. In the 1970s, uses of the rhinoceros's body parts among the local people of Sumatra were documented, such as the use of rhino horns in amulets and a folk belief that the horns offer some protection against poison. Dried rhinoceros meat was used as medicine for diarrhea, leprosy, and tuberculosis. \"Rhino oil\", a concoction made from leaving a rhino's skull in coconut oil for several weeks, may be used to treat skin diseases. The extent of use and belief in these practices is not known. Rhinoceros horn was once believed to be widely used as an aphrodisiac; in fact traditional Chinese medicine never used it for this purpose. Nevertheless, hunting in this species has primarily been driven by a demand for rhino horns with supposedly medicinal properties.\n\nThe rainforests of Indonesia and Malaysia, which the Sumatran rhino inhabits, are also targets for legal and illegal logging because of the desirability of their hardwoods. Rare woods such as merbau, meranti and semaram are valuable on the international markets, fetching as much as $1,800 per m ($1,375 per cu yd). Enforcement of illegal-logging laws is difficult because humans live within or near many of the same forests as the rhino. The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake has been used to justify new logging. Although the hardwoods in the rainforests of the Sumatran rhino are destined for international markets and not widely used in domestic construction, the number of logging permits for these woods has increased dramatically because of the tsunami. However, while this species has been suggested to be highly sensitive to habitat disturbance, apparently it is of little importance compared to hunting, as it can withstand more or less any forest condition.\nNevertheless, the main cause of drastic reduction of the species is likely caused by the Allee effect.\n\nThe Bornean rhino in Sabah was confirmed to be extinct in the wild in April 2015, with only 3 individuals left in captivity.\n\nThe mainland Sumatran rhino in Malaysia was confirmed to be extinct in the wild in August 2015.\n\nIn March 2016 there was a rare sighting of a Sumatran Rhino in Kalimantan, the Indonesian part of Borneo. The last time there was a Sumatran Rhino in the Kalimantan area was approximately 40 years ago. This optimism was met with despair as that very specific Sumatran Rhino was found dead several weeks later after the sighting. The reason of the death is currently unknown.\n\nSumatran rhinoceroses do not thrive outside of their ecosystem. The London Zoo acquired a male and female in 1872 that had been captured in Chittagong in 1868. The female named \"Begum\" survived until 1900, the record lifetime for a captive rhino. Begum was one of at least seven specimens of the extinct subspecies \"D. s. lasiotis\" that were held in zoos and circuses. In 1972, Subur, the only Sumatran rhino remaining in captivity, died at the Copenhagen Zoo.\n\nDespite the species' persistent lack of reproductive success, in the early 1980s, some conservation organizations began a captive-breeding program for the Sumatran rhinoceros. Between 1984 and 1996, this \"ex situ\" conservation program transported 40 Sumatran rhinos from their native habitats to zoos and reserves across the world. While hopes were initially high, and much research was conducted on the captive specimens, by the late 1990s, not a single rhino had been born in the program, and most of its proponents agreed the program had been a failure. In 1997, the IUCN's Asian rhino specialist group, which once endorsed the program, declared it had failed \"even maintaining the species within acceptable limits of mortality\", noting that, in addition to the lack of births, 20 of the captured rhinos had died. In 2004, a surra outbreak at the Sumatran Rhinoceros Conservation Centre killed all the captive rhinos in Peninsular Malaysia, reducing the population of captive rhinos to eight.\n\nSeven of these captive rhinos were sent to the United States (the other was kept in Southeast Asia), but by 1997, their numbers had dwindled to three: a female in the Los Angeles Zoo, a male in the Cincinnati Zoo, and a female in the Bronx Zoo. In a final effort, the three rhinos were united in Cincinnati. After years of failed attempts, the female from Los Angeles, Emi, became pregnant for the sixth time, with the zoo's male Ipuh. All five of her previous pregnancies ended in failure. Reproductive physiologist at the Cincinnati Zoo, Terri Roth, had learned from previous failures, though, and with the aid of special hormone treatments, Emi gave birth to a healthy male calf named Andalas (an Indonesian literary word for Sumatra) in September 2001. Andalas's birth was the first successful captive birth of a Sumatran rhino in 112 years. A female calf, named \"Suci\" (Indonesian for \"pure\"), followed on 30 July 2004. On 29 April 2007, Emi gave birth a third time, to her second male calf, named Harapan (Indonesian for \"hope\") or Harry. In 2007, Andalas, who had been living at the Los Angeles Zoo, was returned to Sumatra to take part in breeding programs with healthy females, leading to the siring and 23 June 2012 birth of male calf Andatu, the fourth captive-born calf of the era; Andalas had been mated with Ratu, a wild-born female living in the Rhino Sanctuary at Way Kambas National Park.\n\nDespite the recent successes in Cincinnati, the captive-breeding program has remained controversial. Proponents argue that the zoos have not only aided the conservation effort by studying the reproductive habits, raising public awareness and education about the rhinos, helping raise financial resources for conservation efforts in Sumatra but, moreover, to have established a small captive breeding group. Opponents of the captive breeding program argue that the losses are too great; the program is too expensive; removing rhinos from their habitat, even temporarily, alters their ecological role; and captive populations cannot match the rate of recovery seen in well-protected native habitats. In October 2015 Harapan, the last rhino in the Western Hemisphere, left the Cincinnati Zoo to Indonesia.\n\nIn August 2016, there were only three Sumatran rhinos left in Malaysia, a male named Tam and two females, all in captivity. As of June 2017 there are only two rhinos remaining after one of the females, Puntung, was put down due to skin cancer. If the pair do not breed, and there are no further wild sightings, the species can be considered functionally extinct in Malaysia. In Indonesia, meanwhile, a seventh rhino increased the group at the Sumatran Rhino Sanctuary, in Way Kambas NP. A female was born on 12 May 2016.\n\nAside from those few individuals kept in zoos and pictured in books, the Sumatran rhinoceros has remained little known, overshadowed by the more common Indian, black and white rhinos. Recently, however, video footage of the Sumatran rhinoceros in its native habitat and in breeding centers has been featured in several nature documentaries. Extensive footage can be found in an Asia Geographic documentary \"The Littlest Rhino\". Natural History New Zealand showed footage of a Sumatran rhino, shot by freelance Indonesian-based cameraman Alain Compost, in the 2001 documentary \"The Forgotten Rhino\", which featured mainly Javan and Indian rhinos.\n\nThough they were documented by droppings and tracks, pictures of the Bornean rhinoceros were first taken and widely distributed by modern conservationists in April 2006, when camera traps photographed a healthy adult in the jungles of Sabah in Malaysian Borneo. On 24 April 2007, it was announced that cameras had captured the first-ever video footage of a wild Bornean rhino. The night-time footage showed the rhino eating, peering through jungle foliage, and sniffing the film equipment. The World Wildlife Fund, which took the video, has used it in efforts to convince local governments to turn the area into a rhino conservation zone. Monitoring has continued; 50 new cameras have been set up, and in February 2010, what appeared to be a pregnant rhino was filmed.\n\nA number of folk tales about the Sumatran rhino were collected by colonial naturalists and hunters from the mid-19th century to early 20th century. In Burma, the belief was once widespread that the Sumatran rhino ate fire. Tales described the fire-eating rhino following smoke to its source, especially campfires, and then attacking the camp. There was also a Burmese belief that the best time to hunt was every July, when the Sumatran rhinos would congregate beneath the full moon. In Malaya, it was said that the rhino's horn was hollow and could be used as a sort of hose for breathing air and squirting water. In Malaya and Sumatra, it was once believed that the rhino shed its horn every year and buried it under the ground. In Borneo, the rhino was said to have a strange carnivorous practice: after defecating in a stream, it would turn around and eat fish that had been stupefied by the excrement.\n\n"}
{"id": "40063154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40063154", "title": "The Face of Love (2013 film)", "text": "The Face of Love (2013 film)\n\nThe Face of Love is a 2013 American romantic drama film directed by Arie Posin and co-written by Matthew McDuffie. The film stars Annette Bening, Ed Harris, Robin Williams, Amy Brenneman, Jess Weixler and Linda Park. It was screened in the Special Presentation section at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival. \nNikki (Bening) is a recent widow whose husband, Garret (Ed Harris), died in a drowning accident and who has not yet gotten over it. Objects, people and situations that remind Nikki of the love of her life still haunt her. Resigned to life alone, Nikki visits an art gallery she often frequented with Garret and sees a man (Harris in a dual role) whose resemblance to her husband stuns her. She returns to the gallery several more times, hoping to see him. Eventually, Nikki identifies him as a professor at a small local college. She finds \"Tom\" on the internet and visits an art class he is teaching; but she is emotionally overwhelmed and flees. Eventually, Nikki calms down and invites Tom to give her private, at home, tutoring in painting. She doesn't disclose to him his physical resemblance to her late husband.\n\nNikki and Tom become lovers, to the emotional distress of her neighbor (Robin Williams), who has hoped to attract her interest romantically since the death of Garret, his friend. The strain of keeping Tom a secret from her friends and family, who would immediately recognize the uncanny resemblance, begins to wear on Nikki, Tom, and the relationship. Nikki is not alone in keeping secrets in the relationship. Tom, who is divorced for 10 years from his ex-wife yet still maintains a close friendship with her, does not tell Nikki he suffers from a severe heart ailment. When Nikki’s adult daughter Summer visits unexpectedly, finding Tom at the house, she flies into a rage repulsed by Tom’s appearance. Tom believes her outrage is triggered simply by his presence. \nTom, puzzled by the daughter's reaction, accepts when Nikki asks him to fly off to Mexico with her. At a resort often visited by Garret and Nikki when they were married, Tom discovers a photo of Nikki and her husband by the bar, notices the resemblance and also realizes that a psychologically imbalanced Nikki has brought him to the very place her husband died. Tom confronts her with the resemblance and Nikki runs off into the raging surf, perhaps to commit suicide. She is rescued by Tom and they later hold one another in bed with the knowledge the relationship isn't based in anything more than his physical similarities to Garret and is doomed.\n\nA year later, Summer finds an art gallery card in Nikki's mail that turns out to be an invitation to a memorial display of Tom's art. Tom has died of his heart condition but produced an outpouring of art in his last year. Nikki attends the reception hosted by Tom's ex-wife and tearfully sees Tom's painting of the two of them titled \"The Face of Love\".\n\n\nThe film was shot in Los Angeles in 2012, and produced by Mockingbird Pictures.\n\nIn May 2013 IFC Films acquired the rights of the film to distribute in the United States. The film was released in September 2013.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, \"The Face of Love\" has an approval rating of 43% based on 68 reviews, with a rating of 5.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Perhaps worth checking out if only for the opportunity to see reliably powerful work from Annette Bening and Ed Harris, \"The Face of Love\" undermines its leads' performances with a scattershot script and aimless direction.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 51 out of 100, based on 24 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews \".\n"}
{"id": "1383983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383983", "title": "The Flumps", "text": "The Flumps\n\nThe Flumps is a children's programme, created and written by Julie Holder, and produced for the BBC by David Yates. It was broadcast by the BBC many times from 1977 to 1988.\n\nThe plot revolved around the various adventures of a family of furry characters called The Flumps. It was created and written by Julie Holder and narrated by Gay Soper. The theme tune was played by George Chisholm on the trombone.\n\nIn 1978, the BBC released a record, \"The Flumps\" (REC 309), that had 4 stories from the TV series narrated and sung by Gay Soper: \"Keep Fit\", \"Balloons\", \"Moon Shot\" and \"Something Different\".\n\nIn 2000, \"The Flumps\" was released on DVD. During early 2008, the theme tune was used in a series of adverts for Auto Trader magazine in the UK. These adverts were run again in Q3 2009.\n\nThe various flumps were:\n\n\nThe Flumps was shown 21 times between 1977 and 1988, usually around 1.45pm, and usually on BBC One. The transmission runs were as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31881504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31881504", "title": "The Wandering Jew (1923 film)", "text": "The Wandering Jew (1923 film)\n\nThe Wandering Jew is a 1923 British silent fantasy film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Matheson Lang, Hutin Britton and Malvina Longfellow. It was based on a play by E. Temple Thurston. A Jewish man is condemned to wander aimlessly through the ages. It was remade in 1933 as \"The Wandering Jew\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2268320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268320", "title": "Thulsa Doom", "text": "Thulsa Doom\n\nThulsa Doom is a fictional character first appearing in the Kull short story \"Delcardes' Cat\" by Robert E. Howard. He has since appeared in comic books and film as the nemesis of Kull and, later, one of Howard's other creations, Conan the Barbarian. Thulsa Doom is the prototype for many of the future undead evil wizards, such as Tsotha-Lanti (in the Conan saga) and Kathulos (in the Skull Face novelette); other living or revenant Howardian practitioners of magic such as Thoth Amon, Thugra Khotan, Kathulos and Xaltotun bear some psychological similitudes to Thulsa Doom even if their outward appearance is vastly different.\n\nThulsa Doom first appeared (as Thulses Doom) at the end of the short story \"Delcardes' Cat\" by Robert E. Howard, which featured the character Kull as the protagonist. Howard later edited the text to include foreshadowing and references to Thulsa Doom (as he had been rechristened) throughout the story and changed the title to \"The Cat and the Skull\" to reflect this. Editor Patrice Louinet speculated that this was because Howard had originally intended Kuthulos (whom Doom impersonates in the story) to be the actual villain before coming up with Thulsa Doom near the story's completion. This version was submitted to \"Weird Tales\" in 1928 but it was not accepted. The story did not see print until 1967 in the paperback \"King Kull\" published by Lancer Books.\n\nThulsa Doom is described by Howard in \"The Cat and the Skull\" as having face \"like a bare white skull, in whose eye sockets flamed livid fire.\" He is seemingly invulnerable, boasting after being run through by one of Kull's comrades that he feels \"only a slight coldness\" when being injured and will only \"pass to some other sphere when [his] time comes.\"\n\nAs Thulsa Doom's original story was not published in Howard's lifetime he reused the character, as \"Kathulos of Atlantis\", in his 1929 story Skull-Face.\n\nA powerful necromancer, Thulsa Doom is primary foe of Kull's comics version. He was often a featured foe in the Marvel Kull comics (for instance, \"Kull the Conqueror\" #3 and #7). Thulsa Doom returns in \"Kull the Conqueror\" #11, \"By This Axe I Rule\", based on an original story by Robert E. Howard. Posing as the nobleman Ardyon, he forms an alliance with four rebels within Valusia: the dwarfish Ducalon, the soldier Enaros, Baron Kanuub, and the minstrel Ridondo, who actually dethroned the hero, and set him on a quest to regain his lost kingdom, in the pages of his own comic, until it gets cancelled. Kull resumes his quest in the pages of \"Kull and the Barbarians\", a black-and-white Marvel magazine format (published under the Curtis Magazines imprint). Thulsa Doom sent members of the Black Legion to ambush Kull and Brule, though they won the fight. Thulsa observed the battle through a magic crystal. Kull and Brule's ship was later attacked by a sea serpent, with which Thulsa may or may not have had anything to do.\n\n\"Kull and the Barbarians\" lasted three issues until it was cancelled. In the return of \"Kull the Destroyer\", Thulsa Doom/Ardyon learned of the curse of Torranna (essentially, if a scarred man wore the crown and sat the throne, he'd be unable to ever leave the throne), which he determined to bestow upon Kull. To this end, he took on the aspect of the god of Torranna and advised its inhabitants how best to bring this about. Thulsa Doom manipulated Garn-Nak, Karr-Lo-Zann, and Norra of Torranna. They drew Kull into Torranna and had him undergo a series of trials to gain the crown of Torranna. Kull sought the crown because he believed he could use the army of Torranna to help him retake the crown of Valusia from Thulsa Doom.\n\nIn \"Kull the Destroyer\" #28, Kull successfully completed the last of the trials, but before he could don the crown, Norra warned him of the curse of Torranna. Thulsa Doom allowed Norra's age to catch up with her, turning her into a shriveled corpse, and then revealed himself to Kull, challenging him to one final battle. In the next issue (also the final issue of the \"Kull the destroyer\" title), Thulsa Doom pulled Kull into a pocket dimension for their final battle. Kull managed to slash Thulsa Doom's face with his sword, but ultimately was overpowered by the necromancer. Thulsa Doom returned them both to Torranna, but Kull rallied long enough to push Thulsa Doom onto the throne and place the crown on his head. His face scarred by Kull, Thulsa fulfilled the prophecy and fell victim to the curse himself. Thulsa's power drained by the curse, the city of Torranna collapsed, seemingly crushing him. Kull, luckily, escaped, and then returned to Valusia to retake his own throne.\n\nHe would face Thulsa Doom at least one more time, in the pages of \"Marvel Preview #19\" (summer 1979 issue). The script for that issue was an adaptation of the prose tale \"Riders beyond the sunrise\", itself the completion by writer Lin Carter of an untitled fragment written by R. E. Howard. Thulsa Doom appears to finally perish at the climax of this story, but he would eventually return as a Conan villain in the pages of \"Conan\" and a few issues of Conan's black-and-white magazine, \"Savage Sword of Conan\" (issues #190-193). He is apparently immortal and is visualized as a skull-headed sorcerer, or as an albino when taking on the illusory appearance of a living man. A similar concept of an undead sorcerer can also be found in the lich from \"Dungeons and Dragons\" and other works of fantasy fiction, such as \"The Sword and the Sorcerer\".\n\nAmerican company Dynamite Entertainment published a \"Thulsa Doom\" mini-series written by Arvid Nelson, with art by Lui Antonio, for a total of four issues in 2009.\n\nThulsa Doom later becomes an enemy of the Celtic hero Cormac mac Art, another Howard character further expanded by Andrew J. Offutt.\n\nSet in the time of King Arthur (though Arthur himself does not appear onstage) Thulsa Doom comes back to life after 18,000 years on a sinister deserted island. Recognizing Cormac mac Art - an Irish adventurer who joined a band of Danish Vikings - as a reincarnation of his old enemy King Kull, Thulsa Doom immediately resumes his old vendetta and relentlessly seeks to kill mac Art.\n\nAs depicted by Offutt, Thulsa Doom possess remarkable shape-changing powers, being able to take not only the form but also the precise mannerisms of Cormac mac Art's close friends. This includes also a perfect sex change ability. On one occasion Thulsa Doom is able to perfectly imitate Cormac mac Art's girlfriend, speak convincing words of love to a man who knows her well and is in love with her, and engage in full-fledged sex - with the intention of taking Mac Art by surprise and suddenly drawing steel. However, at the moment of attack Thulsa Doom show his true skull face, enabling Mac Art to realize the deception and save himself at the last moment.\n\nThulsa Doom is also seen as controlling the elements and being able to call up a storm out of a calm sea.\n\nWhile Thulsa Doom cannot be killed - even when pierced by a sword or thrown from a great height - he is vulnerable to steel being driven through his body, such steel acting to imprison him and prevent him from getting away.\n\nHoward's 1929 novella \"Skull-Face\" features a resuscitated Atlantean necromancer appearing in the present-day world and seeking to take it over. This villain is very similar to Thulsa Doom, but is named \"Kathulos of Atlantis\".\n\nA character of the same name is the main antagonist in the 1982 movie \"Conan the Barbarian\". Played by James Earl Jones, the cinematic Thulsa Doom is considerably different from the literary one, who is described as having a skull-like face. Pre-production drawings showed this version of Thulsa Doom with the skull-like face, but as filmed, he is essentially the classic Conan villain Thoth-Amon, servant of the serpent-god Set. As such, he appears as an ordinary human in the film, though one said to have lived for a thousand years and with the power to transform into an enormous snake.\n\nIn July 2008, Dynamite Entertainment announced that Djimon Hounsou signed to co-produce and star as Thulsa Doom in a film version based on the comic books, rather than Robert E. Howard's original incarnation, although the film has not been made yet.\n\n"}
{"id": "3598691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598691", "title": "Tye Fields", "text": "Tye Fields\n\nWalter Tyeson \"Tye\" Fields (born February 8, 1975) is an American former professional boxer who held the USBA heavyweight title.\n\nTye Fields grew up in Beaverton, Oregon. Fields played college basketball and was a starter at forward for San Diego State University. Fields never was an amateur. Standing at 6 feet and 8 inches and weighing around 275 lbs (125 kg), the southpaw Fields was considered large even for the heavyweight division.\n\nIn his professional career he has beaten some notable opponents such as Andy Sample, Saul Montana, Bruce Seldon, Sedreck Fields, Sherman Williams, Maurice Harris, Konstantin Airich, Raphael Butler and Michael Sprott. He started his career with a streak of 17 consecutive KO victories (16 of them coming in the first round) before he suffered his first loss to Jeff Ford via a 1st-round KO. He would later avenge this defeat by knocking out Ford in a rematch, also in the 1st round. In total Fields has 26 first-round knockouts among his 49 professional victories. He has won 4 regional titles.\n\nOn June 28, 2008, Fields faced off against Monte Barrett on the Manny Pacquiao – David Díaz undercard at the Mandalay Bay in Las Vegas. Fields suffered the second defeat of his career losing via knockout after just 57 seconds of the first round when Barrett (34-6, 20 KOs) delivered a series of accurate right hands, knocking Fields down and leaving him unable to beat the referee's count.\n\nFollowing the defeat to Barrett Fields rebounded with 4 straight KO victories over lowly regarded opposition before taking another step up and challenging former heavyweight title challenger Michael Grant. The fight took place on March 11, 2011 at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas. As with his previous step up in opposition Fields came up short when he was knocked out with a single punch from Grant in the third round.\n\nFields took part in the Prizefighter 'International heavyweights' tournament held at Alexandra Palace in London on 7 May 2011. After winning his opening 2 bouts against Michael Sprott and Konstantin Airich he matched up against the undefeated former Cuban amateur star Mike Pérez. Perez won the tournament and the £32,00 prize money when he knocked Fields out in the first round.\n\nOn October 7, 2011, Fields defeated a strong puncher Raphael Butler (35-10, 28 KOs) from Minnesota in the 6th round via technical knockout in 10-round main event on KO Boxing's Show of Force card at the Shaw Conference Centre in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.\n\nOn March 24, 2012, Fields faced the WBC International titleholder, #8 WBC ranked undefeated Mariusz Wach (26-0, 14 KO) from Poland. The fight was set at the Resorts Hotel & Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey and got coverage form ESPN's Friday Night Fights. Fields lost by TKO in the 6th round. After that loss Fields retired from boxing.\n\n"}
{"id": "34833177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34833177", "title": "William de Alton", "text": "William de Alton\n\nWilliam de Alton (born 1207 or 1307) was a Dominican friar from Alton, Hampshire, who lived during the reign of Edward II. He is known for writing \"The Universality of the Pollution of Mankind by Original Sin\". This tract on original sin argues that in its polluting all of mankind it must also have thereby polluted the Virgin Mary, thus contradicting the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception.\n"}
{"id": "2372182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2372182", "title": "Yaguine Koita and Fodé Tounkara", "text": "Yaguine Koita and Fodé Tounkara\n\nYaguine Koïta (born September 25, 1984) and Fodé Tounkara (born April 6, 1985) were stowaways who froze to death on a Sabena Airlines Airbus A330 (Flight 520) flying from Conakry, Guinea, to Brussels, Belgium, on July 28, 1999. Their bodies were discovered on August 2 in the airplane's rear right-hand wheel bay at Brussels International Airport, after having made at least three return trips between Conakry and Brussels. The boys were carrying plastic bags with birth certificates, school report cards, family photographs and a letter. This letter, written in imperfect French, was widely published in the world media. Several associations commemorate each year Yaguine et Fodé on August 2nd at Brussels Airport.\n\nTheir story was made into a film - \"Early in the Morning\" () in 2006.\nSinger and songwriter John Legend dedicated his 2007 song Show Me to the boys and their story.\n\nExcellencies, Messrs. members and officials of Europe,\n\nWe have the honorable pleasure and the great confidence in you to write this letter to speak to you about the objective of our journey and the suffering of us, the children and young people of Africa.\n\nBut first of all, we present to you life's most delicious, charming and respected greetings. To this effect, be our support and our assistance. You are for us, in Africa, those to whom it is necessary to request relief. We implore you, for the love of your continent, for the feeling that you have towards your people and especially for the affinity and love that you have for your children whom you love for a lifetime. Furthermore, for the love and meekness of our creator God the omnipotent one who gave you all the good experiences, wealth and ability to well construct and well organize your continent to become the most beautiful one and most admirable among the others.\n\nMessrs. members and officials of Europe, we call out for your solidarity and your kindness for the relief of Africa. Do help us, we suffer enormously in Africa, we have problems and some shortcomings regarding the rights of the child.\n\nIn terms of problems, we have war, disease, malnutrition, etc. As for the rights of the child in Africa, and especially in Guinea, we have too many schools but a great lack of education and training. Only in the private schools can one have a good education and good training, but it takes a great sum of money. Now, our parents are poor and it is necessary for them to feed us. Furthermore, we have no sports schools where we could practice soccer, basketball or tennis.\n\nThis is the reason, we, African children and youth, ask you to create a big efficient organization for Africa to allow us to progress.\n\nTherefore, if you see that we have sacrificed ourselves and risked our lives, this is because we suffer too much in Africa and that we need you to fight against poverty and to put an end to the war in Africa. Nevertheless, we want to learn, and we ask you to help us in Africa learn to be like you.\n\nFinally, we appeal to you to excuse us very, very much for daring to write this letter to you, the great personages to whom we owe much respect. And do not forget it is to you whom we must lament about the weakness of our abilities in Africa.\n\nWritten by two Guinean children, Yaguine Koita and Fodé Tounkara.\n\nExcellences, Messieurs les membres et responsables d'Europe,\n\nNous avons l'honorable plaisir et la grande confiance de vous écrire cette lettre pour vous parler de l'objectif de notre voyage et de la souffrance de nous, les enfants et jeunes d'Afrique.\n\nMais tout d'abord, nous vous présentons les salutations les plus délicieuses, adorables et respectées dans la vie. A cet effet, soyez notre appui et notre aide. Vous êtes pour nous, en Afrique, ceux à qui il faut demander au secours. Nous vous en supplions, pour l'amour de votre continent, pour le sentiment que vous avez envers votre peuple et surtout pour l'affinité et l'amour que vous avez pour vos enfants que vous aimez pour la vie. En plus, pour l'amour et la timidité de notre créateur Dieu le tout-puissant qui vous a donné toutes les bonnes expériences, richesses et pouvoirs de bien construire et bien organiser votre continent à devenir le plus beau et admirable parmi les autres.\n\nMessieurs les membres et responsables d'Europe, c'est de votre solidarité et votre gentillesse que nous vous crions au secours en Afrique. Aidez-nous, nous souffrons énormément en Afrique, nous avons des problèmes et quelques manques au niveau des droits de l'enfant.\n\nAu niveau des problèmes, nous avons la guerre, la maladie, le manque de nourriture, etc. Quant aux droits de l'enfant, c'est en Afrique, et surtout en Guinée nous avons trop d'écoles mais un grand manque d'éducation et d'enseignement. Sauf dans les écoles privées où l'on peut avoir une bonne éducation et un bon enseignement, mais il faut une forte somme d'argent. Or, nos parents sont pauvres et il leur faut nous nourrir. Ensuite, nous n'avons pas non plus d'écoles sportives où nous pourrions pratiquer le football, le basket ou le tennis.\n\nC'est pourquoi, nous, les enfants et jeunes Africains, vous demandons de faire une grande organisation efficace pour l'Afrique pour nous permettre de progresser.\n\nDonc, si vous voyez que nous nous sacrifions et exposons notre vie, c'est parce qu'on souffre trop en Afrique et qu'on a besoin de vous pour lutter contre la pauvreté et pour mettre fin à la guerre en Afrique. Néanmoins, nous voulons étudier, et nous vous demandons de nous aider à étudier pour être comme vous en Afrique.\n\nEnfin, nous vous supplions de nous excuser très très fort d'oser vous écrire cette lettre en tant que Vous, les grands personages à qui nous devons beaucoup de respect. Et n'oubliez pas que c'est à vous que nous devons nous plaindre de la faiblesse de notre force en Afrique.\n\nEcrit par deux enfants guinéens, Yaguine Koita et Fodé Tounkara.\n"}
