{"id": "8247615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8247615", "title": "A684 road", "text": "A684 road\n\nThe A684 is an A road that runs through Cumbria and North Yorkshire, starting at Kendal, Cumbria and ending at Ellerbeck and the A19 road in North Yorkshire. It crosses the full width of the Yorkshire Dales, passing through Garsdale and the full length of Wensleydale.\n\nFlooding can be a problem after heavy rain, especially at Appersett, near Hawes, and heavy snow can close the road temporarily at the Black Horse hill and in Garsdale.\n\n\nThe A684 has primary status for the short length between Kendal and junction 37 of the M6 motorway, though even this primary section involves two hills and some tricky twists. East of the M6, the road descends the \"Black Horse\" hill and passes through Sedbergh where there is a short diversion to avoid the main street and a difficult right-angled bend. Another right-angled bend east at Garsdale Hall, and the road goes further up the valley to the watershed at Garsdale Head. After this the road passes under Garsdale (or Dandry Mire, or Moorcock) viaduct where after there is a junction with the B6259 road to Kirkby Stephen. The road drops down through upper Wensleydale into Appersett, a junction with the B6255 and into the town of Hawes\n\nThere is a 17-ton MGW (maximum gross weight) restriction over the bridge spanning the Widdale Beck in Appersett. Because of this, heavy eastbound traffic must leave just before the bridge and proceed onto an unclassified road through Hardraw and then turn south onto Burnt Acres Lane bringing the vehicles back to the A684 just east of Hawes town centre. Heavy westbound traffic from the B6255 is expected to go through Hawes eastwards and then back through Hardraw to avoid the weight restriction.\n\nIn Hawes, after the junction with B6255 road to Ingleton, the road splits into single lanes with the eastbound fork dropping down to the junction with Burnt Acres Lane and the westbound taking a cobbled road through the town. The two forks meet up at the Market Square in Hawes.\n\nThere is a triangular road junction in Bainbridge with the road to Askrigg before the road goes east again over the River Bain. After passing Askrigg and bridging the confluence of the Bishopdale and Walden Becks, the road meets the B6160 from Addingham where there is a grade II listed AA phone box.\n\nIt then passes through West Witton, Wensley, Leyburn (where it runs in tandem with the A6108 for a short distance), Constable Burton, Patrick Brompton and Crakehall before arriving at Bedale. The road used to continue through Bedale Town and on through Aiskew and then after another ungated crossing of the Wesleydale Railway, it had a junction with a slip road to the A6055 (the old A1 Junction going North). Now, Bedale is bypassed (see below) and the road intersects with the A6055 and the A1(M) just north of Leeming Bar and rejoins the old route just east of Leeming Bar.\n\nThe road then heads out through Morton-On-Swale, Ainderby Steeple and into Northallerton where it first meets the A167 and runs in tandem as the A167 through Northallerton. The road crosses two adjacent railways in the town; the first is a gated crossing on the freight lines to and from Teesside, and the second is under the railway station at Northallerton on the East Coast Main Line. The road carries on eastwards meeting the A168 and loops east then northwards around the town centre before it leaves the A167/A168 and heads north out of the town.\n\nThe road then heads mainly eastwards avoiding Brompton but going through Ellerbeck before arriving at a large junction with the A19 that allows access north and south and also onto an unclassified road into Osmotherley.\n\nOn 16 July 2014 the Department of Transport announced the go-ahead for the villages of Leeming Bar and Aiskew and the town of Bedale in North Yorkshire to be bypassed. The bypass, which opened to traffic on the 11 August 2016, leaves the current A684 just north of St Gregory's Church in Bedale and runs eastwards for to a point about east of Leeming Bar. It connects with junction 51 on the A1M and the A6055 just north of Leeming Bar.\n\nIn 2014, EuroRAP published a brochure based on data collected between 2010 and 2012. It listed the A684 as being a High Risk road along its entire length from the M6 to the A19.\n\n"}
{"id": "49440789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49440789", "title": "Auh (region)", "text": "Auh (region)\n\nAuh is a historical Chechen settlement in Dagestan.\n\nIn 1921, Auh was included in the Dagestan ASSR, despite the desire of Akkins to join the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. According to another explanation, the reason was the entering Akkins fear of losing their winter pastures in the territory of the Khasavyurtovsky District. In 1943, the territory was incorporated into the Auha Auhovsky area. In 1944 Akkin Chechens were deported to Central Asia. The area of the historic residence was renamed the Novolaksky District and inhabited by Laks. The yurt villages Auch and Auch-Aktas were transferred to the Kazbekovski District and inhabited by Avars. In 1956, the Chechens (including the Akkin) began to return to their historical homeland.\n\nThe Chechens' homes were located in the mountains, next to the Caspian Sea. In 1718 the Don cossacks were sent to destroy their houses and many were killed.\nAlburi Lam — mountain top in Akh.\n"}
{"id": "20797753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20797753", "title": "Biosurvey", "text": "Biosurvey\n\nA biosurvey, or biological survey, is a scientific study of organisms to assess the condition of an ecological resource, such as a water body.\n\nBiosurveys are used by government agencies responsible for management of public lands, environmental planning and/or environmental regulation to assess ecological resources, such as rivers, streams, lakes and wetlands. They involve collection and analysis of animal and/or plant samples which serve as bioindicators. The studies may be conducted by professional scientists or volunteer organizations. They are conducted according to published procedures to ensure consistency in data collection and analysis, and to compare findings to established metrics.\n\nBiosurveys typically use metrics such as species composition and richness (e.g. number of species, extent of pollution-tolerant species), and ecological factors (number of individuals, proportion of predators, presence of disease). Biosurveys may identify pollution problems that are difficult or expensive to detect using chemical testing procedures.\n\nA biosurvey may be used to generate an index of biological integrity (IBI), a scoring system for an ecological resource.\n\nProtocols for conducting biosurveys of water resources have been published by state government agencies and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Agencies use these protocols to implement the Clean Water Act. Similar protocols have been published by volunteer organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6930929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6930929", "title": "Blidinje Nature Park", "text": "Blidinje Nature Park\n\nBlidinje Nature Park is a nature park in Bosnia and Herzegovina, established on 30 April 1995. It is situated in the heart of Dinaric Alps and represent important natural, hydrogeological reservat in Dinaric karst of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with significant cultural and historical heritage. It consist of major mountains of Dinaric Alps range, plateau Dugopolje, Blidinje Lake, Grabovica valley and other characteristic karstic features.\n\nThe melting glaciers from Čvrsnica during the two past ice ages created this open and barren valley. A spacious plateau, 3–5 km long, is situated at an elevation of 1.150-1.300 meters a.s.l., between Čvrsnica and Vran mountains with a total area of 364 km². Although geomorphologically one whole, plateau is divided in two geographically and topographic distinct features, first in lower southern part, areal around the lake Blidinje, and another in northern higher part of the plateau where a flat plain Dugopolje is situated, as well as administratively between three municipalities: Posušje, Tomislavgrad and Jablanica. \n\nGoing from the north and the Doljanka river, plateau opens with a flat plain of Dugopolje at the higher end and lead toward south longitudinally between Vran at the north-northwestern side, with its highest peak on 2.074 meters a.s.l., and on the south-southeastern Čvrsnica mountain, with its highest peak Pločno at 2.228 meters a.s.l. On the opposite south-southeastern end of the plateau, beyond Blidinje lake, is Čabulja mountain with its highest peak at 1.786 meters a.s.l. further toward east beyond Čvrsnica is Grabovica valley that stretches all the way to the Neretva river and its canyon.\n\nGrabovica valley with small Grabovica creek is a special reserve within park, squeezed deep into Čvrsnica, and form a deep canyon between steep and rugged cliffs of the mountain. Within the valley are two small villages Gornja Grabovica (Jablanica) and Donja Grabovica (Jablanica). The legend of Diva Grabovica tells the story about legendary daughter of a local shepherd who, as story goes, was killed by local nobleman whom she rejected, so that she would not marry another.\n\nThe most important hydrogeological phenomena in the park is alpine lake, Blidinje Lake, largest of its kind in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nBlidinje lake is the direct result of a glacial retreat, but according to the Poklečani Parishes office documents, lake is, also, a product of anthropogenic intervention and activities of human inhabitants. According to these documents, the lake is artificial and it was created at the end of the 19th century. In order to keep the water that is lost through the subterranean passage, local residents and cattle breeders sealed sinkholes with branches and clay, so that water could not find its way underground. Therefore, the lake was formed. Its surface area varies between 2,5 and 6 km², while its average depth is 1,9 m, with altitude of 1.184 m a.s.l.\n\nAccompanying some of the rocky and seemingly lifeless slopes are thick forests of pine, including the endemic white-bark pine at Masna Luka called Pinus leucodermis \"(Bosnian pine)\". Three types of wild thyme and dozens of wild flowers cover the valley and mountain sides in the spring and summer.\n\nAll around the valley is dotted with the Bosnia and Herzegovina trademark stećci from medieval ages. It is not clear how long human settlements have existed here but research began when Blidinje recently received Nature park status. Traces of Illyrian graves and Roman roads indicate that Blidinje has been settled for at least 2,500 years. The large necropolis at Dugo Polje indicates that the waves of Slavs that came in the 7th century also made this area their home.\n\nThere is also a Franciscan monastery that is located within the park and open to visitors. Houses here are traditional shepherd homes with straw roofs that are mainly used during the spring and summer seasons. Winter is harsh and cold in these parts.\n\nThe park itself is free of mines with well-marked trails.\n\nA self-proclaimed micronation, a parodical project, is located in the middle of this Nature Park, Hajdučka Republika Mijata Tomića.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20982957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20982957", "title": "Capitol Hill, Saipan", "text": "Capitol Hill, Saipan\n\nCapitol Hill (sometimes spelled Capital Hill, formerly Army Hill under the United States Navy,) is a settlement (sometimes termed a village or district) on the island of Saipan in the Northern Mariana Islands. It has a population of just over 1,000. Capitol Hill has been the territory's seat of government since 1962. It lies on the cross-island road between Tanapag and San Vicente.\n\nCapitol Hill was originally built in 1948 by the Central Intelligence Agency as a base involved in covert training of Nationalist Chinese guerrillas.\n\nThe area is home to various government departments and agencies:\n\n\nRoute 31 (Cross Island Road) or Isa Drive is the main road in the area.\n"}
{"id": "1128224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128224", "title": "Commonwealth Bay", "text": "Commonwealth Bay\n\nCommonwealth Bay is an open bay about 48 km (30 mi) wide at the entrance between Point Alden and Cape Gray in Antarctica. It was discovered in 1912 by the Australasian Antarctic Expedition under Douglas Mawson, who established the main base of the expedition at Cape Denison at the head of the bay. Named by Australasian Antarctic Expedition after the Commonwealth of Australia.\nThe bay is listed in both the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" and the Eighth Edition of the \"National Geographic Atlas\" as the windiest place on Earth with winds regularly exceeding per hour and an average annual wind speed of per hour.\n\nStorms are caused by katabatic wind, a concentrated flow of cold air moving along the steep surface of the ice shield towards the sea. The air flow is accelerated by the increasing gradient of the surface of ice and the cliff monolith at Cape Denison. In the summer there are periods of relative calm but during winter storms are especially strong and long lasting, and can start and end unexpectedly. An abrupt start and end of storm might be accompanied by powerful whirlpools and expressive short-lived and fast-moving clouds at the coast line.\n\nDespite the extreme weather, the coast of Commonwealth Bay is an important breeding area for Antarctic petrels, emperor penguins, and Adelie penguins which means that there are also Leopard seals\n\nThe population of a colony of Adelie penguins here has crashed from 160,000 to 10,000, since 2011. A giant iceberg the size of Rome got stuck, and the colony is now effectively landlocked.\n\n"}
{"id": "24940440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24940440", "title": "Environmental niche modelling", "text": "Environmental niche modelling\n\nEnvironmental niche modelling, alternatively known as species distribution modelling, (ecological) niche modelling, predictive habitat distribution modelling, and climate envelope modelling refers to the process of using computer algorithms to predict the distribution of species in geographic space on the basis of a mathematical representation of their known distribution in environmental space (= realized ecological niche). The environment is in most cases represented by climate data (such as temperature, and precipitation), but other variables such as soil type, water depth, and land cover can also be used. These models allow for interpolating between a limited number of species occurrence and they are used in several research areas in conservation biology, ecology and evolution.\n\nThe extent to which such modelled data reflect real-world species distributions will depend on a number of factors, including the nature, complexity, and accuracy of the models used and the quality of the available environmental data layers; the availability of sufficient and reliable species distribution data as model input; and the influence of various factors such as barriers to dispersal, geologic history, or biotic interactions, that increase the difference between the realized niche and the fundamental niche. Environmental niche modelling may be considered a part of the discipline of biodiversity informatics.\n\nEnvironmental niche models are in origin correlative models. Given a handful of geographically-referred observed presences of a species and climate maps, they find the most likely environmental ranges where a species lives. For these algorithms to be effective, it is required to also gather observations of absences, that is, where the species does not live. Records of species absences are typically not as common as records of presences, thus often \"random background\" or \"pseudo-absence\" data are used to fit these models. Disagreement in the literature exists over whether environmental niche models portray the realized niche, which is the environments where a species is found or the fundamental niche, which is where a species can be found, that is, where the abiotic environment is appropriate for the survival of a species. If there are incomplete records of the occurrences of a species, there is a bias introduced by pseudo-absences, or the species is geographically confined due to dispersal limitations, environmental niche models might often reflect the realized niche instead of the fundamental niche.\n\nIn contrast to correlative models, mechanistic (or process-based) models assess the bio-physiological aspects of a species to generate the conditions in which the species can ideally persist, based on observations made in controlled field or laboratory studies. As such it aims at modelling the fundamental niche of the species. See for a comparison between mechanistic and correlative models.\n\nNiche modelling algorithms include \"profile methods\", simple statistical techniques that use e.g. environmental distance to known sites such as BIOCLIM, and DOMAIN; \"regression\" (e.g. forms of generalized linear models); and \"machine learning\" methods such as maximum entropy (MAXENT). An incomplete list of algorithms that have been used for niche modelling includes:\n\n\n\n\nFurthermore, ensemble models can be created from several model outputs to create a model that captures components of each. Often the mean or median value across several models is used as an ensemble. Similarly, consensus models are models that fall closest to some measure of central tendency of all models—consensus models can be individual model runs or ensembles of several models.\n\nSPACES is an online Environmental niche modeling platform that allows users to design and run dozens of the most prominent algorithms in a high performance, multi-platform, browser-based environment.\n\nMaxEnt is the most widely used method/software uses presence only data and performs well when there are few presence records available.\n\nModEco implements various algorithms.\n\nDIVA-GIS has an easy to use (and good for educational use) implementation of BIOCLIM\n\nThe Biodiversity and Climate Change Virtual Laboratory (BCCVL) is a \"one stop modelling shop\" that simplifies the process of biodiversity and climate impact modelling. It connects the research community to Australia’s national computational infrastructure by integrating a suite of tools in a coherent online environment. Users can access global climate and environmental datasets or upload their own data, perform data analysis across six different experiment types with a suite of 17 different algorithms, and easily visualise, interpret and evaluate the results of the models. Experiments types include: Species Distribution Model, Multispecies Distribution Model, Species Trait Model (currently under development), Climate Change Projection, Biodiverse Analysis and Ensemble Analysis. Example of BCCVL SDM outputs can be found here\n\nMost niche modelling algorithms are available in the R packages 'dismo', 'biomod2' and 'mopa'..\n\nSoftware developers may want to build on the openModeller project.\n\nThe Collaboratory for Adaptation to Climate Change adapt.nd.edu has implemented an online version of openModeller that allows users to design and run openModeller in a high-performance, browser-based environment to allow for multiple parallel experiments without the limitations of local processor power.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28581294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28581294", "title": "Fagne-Famenne", "text": "Fagne-Famenne\n\nFagne-Famenne is a natural region in southern Belgium and northern France. It consists of The Fagne or la Fagne west of the river Meuse, and Famenne to the east. The two regions are often grouped together because they are quite similar both geographically and naturally.\n"}
{"id": "41854779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41854779", "title": "GeoSUR", "text": "GeoSUR\n\nGeoSUR is a regional initiative led by spatial data producers in Latin America and the Caribbean to implement a regional geospatial network and to help establish the basis of a spatial data infrastructure in the region. GeoSUR supports the development of free access geographic services useful to find, view and analyze spatial information through maps, satellite images, and geographic data.\n\nParticipation in the network is open to any spatial data producer that is willing to place their geospatial information at the public's disposal and for the development of the region. Participation by institutions that generate useful information for decision making and development activities is emphasized.\n\nThe network is headed by CAF – the Development Bank of Latin America and the Pan-American Institute of Geography and History (PAIGH), with more than 90 regional and national institutions participating, among which the ministries of planning and public works, ministries of the environment, and geographic institutions of the region stand out as early adopters.\nGeoSUR has received five international awards:\n\n\nIn Latin America and the Caribbean, the construction of some of the key technical components of a regional spatial data infrastructure has taken over 15 years of efforts by multiple players. Following are the key milestones of this process:\n\nThe Geographic Information Network of Latin America and the Caribbean was launched in 2007, during PAIGH's annual meeting in Brasilia, it is supported by the GeoSUR Program, and aimed at the development of national and regional geoservices open to the public. During the first years of the Network's operation, diverse regional geoservices were developed and staged on the web, and the participation of a large number of national institutions was consolidated. From a cradle of around 10 agencies in 2007, GeoSUR grew exponentially and managed to incorporate more than 80 new agencies in the following six years.\n\nIn 2012, in the framework of the 44th Meeting of PAIGH's Executive Board, which took place in Buenos Aires, a document was subscribed with the purpose of strengthening, harmonizing, and accelerating the development of the spatial data infrastructures of the Americas in a coordinated and effective manner. The document was subscribed by representatives from CAF (GeoSUR Program), PAIGH, SIRGAS, and GGIM Americas.\n\nToward the end of 2013, more than 90 institutions from 24 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean participated in the Program. These institutions provide geographic information which is useful for the planners of the region, using modern technologies to manage geo-information, spatial data infrastructures, and several geospatial components. \n\nThe Network's architecture is ruled by the basic guidelines for the development of geoservices defined for the spatial data infrastructures (SDI), it is decentralized, and it is based on the use of OGC and ISO standards and protocols that enable interoperability between the different nodes and components that make up the Network.\n\nThe Network's regional geoservices are operated and maintained by CAF and PAIGH, with support from the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Most of the geoservices with national, sub-national, and urban datasets are maintained and operated directly by the participating institutions.\n\nThe GeoSUR Platform is made up of five components:\n\n\nWith the support of the USGS Earth Resources Observation and Science Center (EROS), GeoSUR developed the first regional portal for Latin America and the Caribbean in March 2007. The portal offers free access to an important collection of regional geospatial information, it contains detailed descriptions of thousands of spatial datasets, and connects the user to a great variety of maps and geographic services operated and maintained by participating institutions from 24 countries.\n\nThe Portal has a complete data base of metadata that describes the spatial data that have been developed by the participating institutions. This data base is connected to similar catalogues operated by these institutions and is periodically updated through an automatic metadata collection mechanism. The Portal has more than 13,000 metadata records in its central data base, and offers access, through a search mechanism, to more than 500,000 metadata records found in other catalogues. The GeoSUR Portal also provided access to a regional map viewer and a topographic processing service that will be described further on.\n\nThe Portal was developed with ESRI's Geoportal Server and uses the Joomla content management system.\n\nThis spatial data visualization service was designed by CAF and it was developed and it is hosted by EROS. The service contains information on supranational maps generated by third party institutions, and it offers access to national and local maps available in viewers operated by participating institutions. Most of the supranational information is public and is available for free download. The service has been in operation since January 2008 and it was built with ArcGIS Server 10.1. The service viewer was built using Flex technology.\n\nThe viewer also provides access to more than 10,000 digital maps contained in more than 350 OGC-based geoservices operated by participating institutions, integrates GeoRSS data, provides tools to evaluate the impact of infrastructure projects on-line and to derive data from digital elevation models, among others.\n\nAs part of a project advanced by CAF and the Dartmouth Flood Observatory of the University of Colorado, daily regional flood maps in near-real-time and historical maps of flood are being incorporated to the viewer. Also, a system to estimate daily river flow in more than 2,000 river points in the region is being implemented using remote sensing techniques.\n\nInstitutions such as the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Andean Community, the World Resources Institute, Nature Serve, Conservation International, NASA, the USGS, Woods Hole, the University of Colorado, the University of Buffalo, the University of Maryland, Guyra Paraguay, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Department of the Interior in the US, the US Forest Service, the Lincoln Institute, and the geographic institutes of Mesoamerica have contributed regional spatial data which is available at the Regional Map Service.\n\nTo date, the viewer has more than 700 regional maps, among which the following stand out:\n\nGeoSUR developed a free access Topographic Processing Service (TPS) which is available on the web and allows for the generation of data derived from digital elevation models (DEMs) of Latin America and the Caribbean. Users may execute the computer models available in this service by using a varied set of DEMs with 1 km., and 500, 250, 90, and 30 meter resolutions. The models available in the TPS include: elevation profile, classification of slopes, watershed delineation, shaded relief, elevation classifications, aspect, viewshed analysis, dam flood areas and rain drop, among others. Users may select and download the DEM of any area of interest in Latin America and the Caribbean (with the exception of the 30 meter DEM) from the TPS.\n\nEROS filled the information gaps of the DEM generated by the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM, resolution: 30 meters) with ASTER, GDEM and GTOPO30 data for all the Latin American and Caribbean region, and created derived and consistent maps for the region which include shaded relief, slope, and aspect, and which may be visualized and downloaded from the Regional Maps Service.\n\nAccess to the SRTM 30-meter DEM of Latin America and the Caribbean has allowed CAF, with the support of CAF's Energy Program and some ministries of energy, to carry out detailed assessments of the hydroelectric potential of the State of São Paulo, Peru and Bolivia (the power potential of each 1 km. segment of river is calculated).\n\nThe Regional Map Service described above basically contains regional information. The national and local geospatial information for the region is available through a decentralized network of map services operated by participating institutions, where each institution is committed to the development of map services and metadata catalogues under the standards of the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC). The participants act as data editors and have accounts in the GeoSUR Portal which allows them to register and manage their geoservices.\n\nThe participating institutions have the liberty to choose the hardware and software platforms to share data with the Network, under the condition that they use regionally recognized standards.\n\nCurrently, the GeoSUR Portal offers access to more than 100 viewers, more than 350 WMS services, and more than 40 WFS services. It offers access to more than 10,000 digital maps available in geoservices operated by participating institutions. GeoSUR offers capacity-building, technical assistance, and support to the institutions that are planning - or in the process of developing - their geoservices, and also helps stage some of them to the Cloud.\n\nDuring 2013, it was decided to complement the information and services offered in the GeoSUR Portal by launching a Regional Portal based on ESRI's ArcGIS Online. Through this Portal, access is offered to part of the information included in the www.geosur.info Portal in a more user friendly platform.\n\nThe GeoSUR Award is granted annually and recognizes the application of spatial data and the development of geospatial information services which, due to their innovative and relevant characteristics, contribute to the fulfillment of the general objectives of the GeoSUR Program and promote the use of geographic information for decision making in Latin America and the Caribbean. Institutions or individuals from any country in the region may apply for the award. The bases of the award are announced at the beginning of each year in the PAIGH and GeoSUR websites.\n\nThe GeoSUR 2012 Award for innovation was granted to the Project for the Integration of geospatial Data for Mesoamerica, presented by the National Geographic and Land Registry Institute of El Salvador; while that year's award for relevance corresponded to the Geoserver of the Ministry of the Environment of Peru.\n\nThe GeoSUR 2013 Award was granted to the Project “Terra-i, a system that monitors natural vegetation change in Latin America and the Caribbean in real time, presented by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT). Two projects were awarded honorable mention: the “Computer platform for the development of motoring, analysis, and alert systems for environmental extremes”, presented by the National Institute for Spatial Research (INPE) in Brazil, and the “Registry System for Geographic Items” presented by the Spatial Data Infrastructure for Bogota (IDECA).\n"}
{"id": "3695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3695", "title": "Geography of Burundi", "text": "Geography of Burundi\n\nBurundi is located in central Africa, to the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, at the co-ordinates .\n\nBurundi occupies an area equal to in size, of which is land. The country has of land border: of which is shared with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with Rwanda and with Tanzania. As a landlocked country, Burundi possesses no coastline. It straddles the crest of the Congo-Nile Divide which separates the basins of the Congo and Nile rivers. The farthest headwaters of the Nile, the Ruvyironza River, has its source in Burundi.\n\nBurundi in general has a tropical highland climate, with a considerable daily temperature range in many areas. Temperature also varies considerably from one region to another, chiefly as a result of differences in altitude. The central plateau enjoys pleasantly cool weather, with an average temperature of . The area around Lake Tanganyika is warmer, averaging ; the highest mountain areas are cooler, averaging . Bujumbura’s average annual temperature is . Rain is irregular, falling most heavily in the northwest. Dry seasons vary in length, and there are sometimes long periods of drought. However, four seasons can be distinguished: the long dry season (June–August), the short wet season (September–November), the short dry season (December–January), and the long wet season (February–May). Most of Burundi receives between of rainfall a year. The Ruzizi Plain and the northeast receive between \n\nThe terrain of Burundi is hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in the east. The southern and eastern plains have been categorised by the World Wildlife Fund as part of the Central Zambezian Miombo woodlands ecoregion.\n\nThe lowest point in the country is at Lake Tanganyika, at , with the highest point being on Mount Heha, at . Natural hazards are posed in Burundi by flooding and landslides.\n\nBurundi possesses reserves of: nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum (not yet exploited), vanadium, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin, tungsten, kaolin, and limestone. There is also arable land and the potential for hydropower. Burundi has of land that is irrigated. The table below describes land use in Burundi.\n\nSoil erosion is an issue for Burundi, and is as a result of overgrazing and the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands. Other issues include: deforestation, due to the uncontrolled cutting-down of trees for fuel; and habitat loss threatens wildlife populations.\n\nBurundi is a party to the following international agreements that relate to the environment: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes and Ozone Layer Protection. The following have been signed but not yet ratified by Burundi: Law of the Sea and Nuclear Test Ban.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Burundi, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n"}
{"id": "58921229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58921229", "title": "Geology of Latvia", "text": "Geology of Latvia\n\nThe geology of Latvia includes an ancient Archean and Proterozoic crystalline basement overlain with Neoproterozoic volcanic rocks and numerous sedimentary rock sequences from the Paleozoic, some from the Mesozoic and many from the recent Quaternary past. Latvia is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe.\n\nSeveral hundred boreholes have returned data about the Precambrian crystalline basement of Latvia, indicating young Middle Proterozoic intrusive rocks such as 1.65 billion year old rapakivi granite or 1.82 billion year old granodiorite in the northeast. Most basement probably formed before the Svecofennian orogeny, between the Archean and Proterozoic. \n\nThe Valmiera-Lokno Rise has early Archean amphibolite, gneiss, granitoid and migmatite under the east of Latvia, although metavolcanics, granulite gneiss and magnetite-bearing quartzite are most common in the Riga Megablock. The Garsene-Limbazi megablock has steeply dipping amphibolite, epidote amphibolite, plagiogneiss, migmatite granite, magnetite-rich quartzite (in the south) from the Proterozoic. Low-grade metavolcanics and 1.8 billion year old granodiorites cover the Riga Megablock in the Adazi assemblage. The Riga Pluton (or Kurzeme Pluton) is a large intrusion from 1.65 billion years ago with gabbro, anorthosite and rapakivi granite, covered in unmetamorphosed Pavilosta Formation volcanics along the west coast. \n\nMesoproterozoic rocks are separated from the Neoproterozoic by an erosion horizon. In western Latvia, basalt, gabbro-norite dikes, tuff, sand and gravel (sediments in the Zuru beds), limburgite and basaltic picrate are particularly common. The Valdai Group holds extensive siltstone, sandstone and clay from the Neoproterozoic. \n\nCambrian rocks trace the Precambrian subsurface and the oldest, 50 to 130 meters thick are found in the east, including shale, argillite and sandstone. Fossil evidence indicates they correlate with the Cambrian Blue Shale in Estonia, early and middle Cambrian rocks in the west are about 220 meters thick. Upper parts of the lower section have brown oolite iron ore in argillite with a thickness of up to five meters and some rocks in the west host small amounts of oil.\nExcept in the north-center of the country, Ordovician rocks are everywhere in the subsurface and include argillite, shale and limestone about 250 meters thick at an average depth of 1.7 kilometers below sea level. \n\nA disconformity separates Silurian rocks from Ordovician rocks and they are common in the subsurface, about 950 meters deep in the west or 162 meters in the north. Most are carbonates with 23 different known graptolite zones.\nSince the late 19th century, researchers have often focused on widespread Devonian rocks up to 900 meters thick that often directly underlie Quaternary deposits and outcrop along streams. Early Devonian rocks are 250 meters thick including siltstone, shale, sandstone, clay and ostracoderm fossils. Middle Devonian rocks have a shift toward argillite and gypsum and gypsum is quarried in Salaspils-Sauriesli between Ogre and Riga. Famenninan Stage dolostone and siltstone is up to 140 meters thick, overlain by Frasnian dolostone, quarried in the east for us ceramics. \n\nCarboniferous rocks are limited to the southwest, with Tournasian age dolomitic sandstone, dolostone, sandstone and siltstone 104 meters thick. \n\nPermian rocks are also confined to the southwest, with a significant disconformity from underlying Carboniferous rocks. Permian rocks from the Kazanian are 35 meters thick with carbonate shale, dolostone, limestone and sandstone. \n\nOnly small areas in the southwest have Triassic rocks, including 74 meters of carbonate clays, sandstone and siltstone. Jurassic rocks are also confined to the southwest and are thinner at only 27 meters and include clay, quartz sands, sandstone, lignite, and siltstone with foraminifera fossils. \n\nCenozoic units are largely absent in Latvia, except from the past 2.5 million years of the Quaternary, which cover the entire country, except where wave erosion has stripped them away on the east-central shore of the Gulf of Riga (or in some river valleys). In buried valleys, these sediments can be up to 310 meters thick, although the average thickness is up to 20 meters in lowlands 40 to 60 meters in highlands. Between Cesis and Madona and in the Vidzeme Highland in south-central part of the country, thicknesses can reach up to 200 meters. The Latgale Formation includes Precambrian crystalline clasts and gray clay left over from the first Pleistocene glaciation. Zidini Formation interglacial lakebed sediments overlie the Latgale up to 23.5 meters thick.\nThe overlying Letiza Formation correlates with formations such as the Oka in Russia or Sangaste in Estonia, associated with the Elsterian glaciation and includes till atop Jurassic rock. Eight meters of lacustrine sediment in the Pulvernieki or marine clays in the Akmenrags Formation line up with the mid-Pleistocene Holsteinian glaciation. Along the Baltic coast, up to 60 meters of brackish sand—the Jurkalne Member—overlies the Akmenrags Formation. The Kurzeme Formation gray calcareous material is widespread, left from the most extensive period of glaciation. The last interglacial is marked by the Felicianova Formation alluvium, overlain by Baltic group sediments from the last glacial advance.\nGlacial retreat and oscillation took place from 25,000 to 12,000 years ago, leaving the 90 meter Latvia Formation, including the Jelgava Member lacustrine deposits. Major spillways drained the landscape, emptying the Baltic Ice Lake which flooded much of the region. The Yoldia Sea, Ancillus Lake, Littorina Sea and Limnea Sea all existed during the early Holocene, leaving behind shoreline deposits. \n"}
{"id": "27782581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27782581", "title": "Horizontal position representation", "text": "Horizontal position representation\n\nA position representation is the parameters used to express a position relative to a reference. Representing position in three dimensions is often done by a Euclidean vector. However, when representing position relative to the Earth it is often more convenient to represent vertical position as altitude or depth, and to use some other parameters to represent horizontal position. There are also several applications where only the horizontal position is of interest, this might e.g. be the case for ships and ground vehicles/cars.\n\nThere are several options for horizontal position representations, each with different properties which makes them appropriate for different applications. Latitude/longitude and UTM are common horizontal position representations.\n\nThe horizontal position has two degrees of freedom, and thus two parameters are sufficient to uniquely describe such a position. However, similarly to the use of Euler angles as a formalism for representing rotations, using only the minimum number of parameters gives singularities, and thus three parameters are required for the horizontal position to avoid this.\n\nThe most common horizontal position representation is latitude and longitude. The parameters are intuitive and well known, and are thus suited for communicating a position to humans, e.g. using a position plot.\n\nHowever, latitude and longitude should be used with care in mathematical expressions (including calculations in computer programs). The main reason is the singularities at the Poles, which makes longitude undefined at these points. Also near the poles the latitude/longitude grid is highly non-linear, and several errors may occur in calculations that are sufficiently accurate on other locations.\nAnother problematic area is the meridian at ±180° longitude, where the longitude has a discontinuity, and hence specific program code must often be written to handle this. An example of the consequences of omitting such code is the crash of the navigation systems of twelve F-22 Raptor fighter aircraft while crossing this meridian.\n\n\"n\"-vector is a three parameter non-singular horizontal position representation that can replace latitude and longitude. Geometrically, it is a unit vector which is normal to the reference ellipsoid. The vector is decomposed in an Earth centered earth fixed coordinate system. It behaves the same at all Earth positions, and it holds the mathematical one-to-one property. The vector formulation makes it possible to use standard 3D vector algebra, and thus \"n\"-vector is well-suited for mathematical calculations, e.g. adding, subtracting, interpolating and averaging positions.\n\nUsing three parameters, \"n\"-vector is inconvenient for communicating a position directly to humans and before showing a position plot, a conversion to latitude/longitude might be needed.\n\nWhen carrying out several calculations within a limited area, a Cartesian coordinate system might be defined with the origin at a specified Earth-fixed position. The origin is often selected at the surface of the reference ellipsoid, with the \"z\"-axis in the vertical direction. Hence (three dimensional) position vectors relative to this coordinate frame will have two horizontal and one vertical parameter. The axes are typically selected as North-East-Down or East-North-Up, and thus this system can be viewed as a linearization of the meridians and parallels.\n\nFor small areas a local coordinate system can be convenient for relative positioning, but with increasing (horizontal) distances, errors will increase and repositioning of the tangent point may be required. The alignment along the north and east directions is not possible at the Poles, and near the Poles these directions might have significant errors (here the linearization is valid only in a very small area).\n\nInstead of one local Cartesian grid, that needs to be repositioned as the position of interest moves, a fixed set of map projections covering the Earth can be defined. UTM is one such system, dividing the Earth into 60 longitude zones (and with UPS covering the Polar regions).\n\nUTM is widely used, and the coordinates approximately corresponds to meters north and east. However, as a set of map-projections it has inherent distortions, and thus most calculations based on UTM will not be exact. The crossing of zones gives additional complexity.\n\nWhen deciding which parameters to use for representing position in a specific application, there are several properties that should be considered. The following table gives a summary of what to consider.\n\n"}
{"id": "12267179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12267179", "title": "IGO (software)", "text": "IGO (software)\n\nThe iGO Navigation Engine, developed by Hungary-based NNG LLC (formerly Nav N Go) is a GPS navigation software package. NNG sells some versions of the software directly to users, as well as to device manufacturers, auto makers, network operators and professional transport specialists. Products based on iGO are available in brands including Becker, Clarion, Pioneer, Samsung and Vodafone.\n\niGO My way 2006 was the first GPS navigation software package by Nav N Go (now NNG) for PDA/PNA devices, introduced in 2005 at CeBIT, Hannover. Due to the new map compression technology, the product fits on a 1GB SD card. An improved version was iGO My way 2006 Plus, announced in 2006.\n\nNNG's iGO 8 (for PDA/PNA devices) was released in April 2008. It offered high-definition 3D navigation maps of terrain, road elevation, landmarks and 3D buildings.\n\niGO amigo (for PNDs) was launched at CeBIT 2009 in Hannover. iGO amigo was the first in a new software series, and employed changes aimed at simplifying the user interface. Since iGO amigo was a streamlined release, it had fewer features than its predecessor iGO 8.\n\niGO My Way 2009 (for iOS devices) was released for North America and Western Europe and was then rolled out to all of Europe in 2010.\n\niGO Primo (for Apple iOS, PND/PNA devices), introduced in 2010, is the primary product of the iGO Navigation range. Version 6 was introduced at the end of 2012, with Google Local search, green routing, extras through in-app purchase, real-time traffic monitoring, TTS Pro speech synthesis, and 3D display of junctions.\n\niGO Primo app for iOS devices was introduced at CeBIT Hannover, 2011. Running on the iGO primo software engine, the refreshed application covers 115 countries with location-based search, green routing and improved junction views. Android and Windows Mobile versions are available to smartphone manufacturers and network providers, but not for retail sale.\n\nNaviextras.com, NNG's map and content update portal, provides updates for iGO 8, iGO amigo and iGO primo. The portal typically releases map updates four times a year. Maps and updates are available for over 90 countries and regions, including countries from Europe, North America, South America, Africa, Middle East, Asia, and Oceania. In 2013, the portal supports 5.200 devices and counts close to 1.8 million registered users globally.\n\nAs NNG is an independent map provider, it works with several map suppliers in different geographical regions. There are different versions of maps running on the iGO Navigation software for the same country or region made by different map suppliers, including TomTom, HERE, Sensis and regional providers.\n\nIn 2013, NNG partnered with Logicom, with an intention to provide the iGO navigation software services to the latter's mappy PNDs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56168176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168176", "title": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (K)", "text": "Index of Sri Lanka-related articles (K)\n\nThis page lists Sri Lanka-related articles with titles beginning with an alphabet letter K.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3587944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3587944", "title": "International Social Science Council", "text": "International Social Science Council\n\nThe International Social Science Council (ISSC) was an international organisation promoting the social sciences, including the economic and behavioural sciences. It was founded in 1952, under the auspices of UNESCO. 6-9 Oct 1952, Paris (France), following a Resolution at the 6th UNESCO General Conference in 1951. Statutes: adopted 19 Sep 1972; completed and revised 14 Nov 1979; revised: 17 Dec 1985; 3 Dec 1992; 27 Nov 1998; 8 Nov 2006; 10 Dec 2010. Registered in accordance with French Law.\n\nIn 2018 the ISSC merged with the International Council for Science (ICSU) to create the International Science Council.\n\nThe mission of the ISSC was to advance the social sciences - their quality, novelty and utility - in all parts of the world: \n\nThe activities of the Council were guided by the principles of academic freedom, pursuit of excellence, equitable access to scientific information and data, unfettered conduct of science, open communication and transparency, accountability, and the use of knowledge for societal value. In addition, the Council sought to support the participation of women, minorities and others under-represented in social science research.\n\nThe ISSC was governed by a General Assembly, comprising the Council’s membership. The General Assembly met every three years to review the Council’s activities and determine the general direction of its future work.\n\nThe ISSC Executive Committee was elected by the General Assembly and acted as the Council’s governing body. It consisted of the President, two Vice-Presidents and a Treasurer, as well as ten further members (Ordinary Members). \n\nThe General Assembly, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, approved the appointment of the Executive Director, who headed the Council’s Secretariat, and served as an ex-officio member of the Executive Committee and of all appointed (standing or ad hoc) committees of the ISSC.\n\nThe Council was advised and guided by individuals from around the world who volunteered their time to serve on various ISSC Committees and Working Groups.\n\nThe ISSC led a number of flagship activities and was a partner on many collaborative initiatives.\n\nThe ISSC produced the World Social Science Report every three years, as part of its strategic partnership with UNESCO. The reports aim to address important social science challenges, take stock of social science contributions and capacities, and to make recommendations for future research, practice and policy.\n\n\nThe ISSC convened the World Social Science Forum. These events gather researchers, funders, policymakers, and other stakeholders to debate topics of global significance and to determine future priorities for international social science. \n\n\nTransformations to Sustainability (T2S) is a research programme supporting social-science-led research on social transformations to greater sustainability. The programme is funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and has supported 38 seed projects (September 2014 to March 2015) and three Transformative Knowledge Networks (December 2015 to December 2018). The programme aims to build on the networks of knowledge gathered through the seed projects and Transformative Knowledge Networks to create and leave behind a lasting global knowledge base. \n\nThe Transformations to Sustainability programme contributes to Future Earth.\n\nThe ISSC initiated and supported several international research programmes with the objective of fostering comparative, interdisciplinary research by setting up networks of social scientists from different disciplines and regions of the world.The ISSC co-sponsored a number of international research programmes and networks around various themes, such as the environment, disaster risk, poverty and gender. These initiatives were undertaken in partnership with various partners and other organisations around the world. \n\nThe ISSC awarded two prestigious international prizes: the Stein Rokkan Prize for Comparative Social Science Research and the Foundation Mattei Dogan Prize for Excellence in Interdisciplinary Research.\n\nNominations for the prize were made by ISSC members or other professional associations in various disciplines, as well as by universities and academic institutions. The selection of a winner is made by an international jury of scholars.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2015 the ISSC led the World Social Science Fellows programme, an international scientific programme to support early-career researchers in the social sciences, with the aim of fostering a new generation of globally-networked research leaders who will collaborate in addressing global problems with particular relevance for low and middle income countries. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28758257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28758257", "title": "John Lodge Cowley", "text": "John Lodge Cowley\n\nJohn Lodge Cowley (1719, United Kingdom – buried 1797, United Kingdom) was an English cartographer, geologist and mathematician.\n\nJohn Cowley was a professor of mathematics at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, London, for a number of years between 1761 and 1773. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in April, 1768.\n\nHis mathematical methods were famous, but he was also an important geographer as well as Cartographer Royal to King George II. He specialised in maps that depicted the counties of the United Kingdom from which arose his most famous work, \"Counties of England\". Cowley published several maps, many of minute detail, and on them often appeared his name although on others appeared the name of Emanuel Bowen acting as engraver. Another one of his works of some note, but less famous than \"The Counties\", was \"A new and easy introduction to the study of geography\" which was published by Thomas Cox and James Hodges. The work was structured as questions and answers with decorative maps added later. His maps contained longer titles than those usually found on the standard miniature maps. John Cowley collaborated with Robert Dodsley for several years in the creation of his maps which explains why the maps were ascribed to Dodsley/Cowley. Among his works are remembered the superb engravings representing the constellation drawn on glass globes created by Thomas Heath.\n\nHe also published a number of introductory works on solid geometry incorporating fold-up figures: \"Geometry Made Easy\" (1752), \"An Appendix to Euclid's Elements\" (1758) and \"The Theory of Perspective Demonstrated\" (1765).\n\nHe taught geometry to subscribers of the St. Martin's Lane Academy, a drawing school established by William Hogarth and John Ellys.\n\nCowley died in Walworth, Surrey. He had a daughter called Mrs Johnstone who inherited her father's passion for science and over the years instructed many members of the British nobility in the use of globes and maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "36514691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36514691", "title": "Jon Kedrowski", "text": "Jon Kedrowski\n\nJonathan James Kedrowski (born May 12, 1979) is an author, ski-mountaineer, and geographer from Colorado. He is best known for summiting and camping overnight on the summit of all of Colorado's Fourteeners (mountains over 14,000 feet) in 2011.\n\nKedrowski is the son of Robert Allan Kedrowski and Barbara Jean Kedrowski. He was born and raised in Vail, Colorado. He earned a bachelor's degree from Valparaiso University in 2002, and a Masters of Arts in Environmental Geography from the University of South Florida in 2006. In 2010, he earned a PhD in Environmental Geography from Texas State University, and he has worked as an assistant professor in the Department of Geography at Central Washington University\n\nBetween 1996 and 1999, Kedrowski summited all 55 of Colorado's Fourteeners. In 2011, Kedrowski summitted, camped, and spent the night on top of all 55 peaks over the course of 95 days. According to \"The Denver Post\", Kedrowski was the first person to accomplish this feat. In 2012, he published a book about the experience, \"Sleeping on the Summits, Colorado Fourteener High Bivys\" \n\nIn 2012, Kedrowski, successfully climbed Mount Everest, reaching the summit on May 26, 2012. During an earlier summit attempt on May 19–20, Kedrowski was present during one of the deadliest days in Everest history, when violent weather and a \"traffic jam\" near the summit led to the deaths of four climbers. Kedrowski's summit was followed closely and featured on the DatelineNBC Documentary \"Into the Death Zone\" which won the 2014 Edward R Morrow Award for best Sound and Video.\n\nIn 2014, Kedrowski skied 20 Cascade Volcanoes in 30 days, camping on the summits of 7 of the more notable volcanoes such as Mount Shasta, Mount Hood, Mount Adams, Mount Baker, and Mount Rainier. His adventure was chronicled in his second book \"Skiing and Sleeping on the Summits: Cascade Volcanoes of the Pacific Northwest\" which was officially released in April 2016.\n\nKedrowski was at the Mt. Everest Basecamp when the April 2015 Nepal earthquake struck, causing avalanches on the mountain. while injuring nearly 100. Kedrowski was unhurt by the event and able to help with recovery efforts, as well as collecting data for the USGS about the earthquake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25611452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25611452", "title": "Jordan Media City", "text": "Jordan Media City\n\nJordan Media City is a media city based in Jordan. \n\nJordan Media City was established in 2001. It is a private company founded as a result of an agreement between the government of the Hashemite kingdom of Jordan and Dallah Production Company. It was set up with a capital of ten million JDs (15 million US Dollars). It now transmits over 247 channels and retransmitts 57 radio broadcasts. Most channels are not Jordanian based, and the government still possess restrictions on Jordanian based channels which makes it hard to open new Jordanian TV channels.\n\nJordan Media City is centrally located next to Jordan Radio and Television Station. It is a short distance from Queen Alia International Airport, and just a few minutes away from Jordan's main highway which connects the country's northern borders with its only port in Aqaba in the south.\n\nThe list below is incomplete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "873884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873884", "title": "Karakoram Highway", "text": "Karakoram Highway\n\nThe Karakoram Highway (, also known as N-35 or National Highway 35 (), or the China-Pakistan Friendship Highway) is a 1300 km national highway which extends from Hasan Abdal in the Punjab province of Pakistan to the Khunjerab Pass in Gilgit-Baltistan, where it crosses into China and becomes China National Highway 314. The highway connects the Pakistani provinces of Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Gilgit-Baltistan with China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. The highway is a popular tourist attraction, and is one of the highest paved roads in the world, passing through the Karakoram mountain range, at at maximum elevation of near Khunjerab pass. Due to its high elevation and the difficult conditions in which it was constructed, it is often referred to as the Eighth Wonder of the World. The highway is also a part of the Asian Highway AH4.\n\nThe Karakoram Highway, also known as the Friendship Highway in China, was built by the governments of Pakistan and China. It was started in 1959 and was completed and opened to the public in 1979. Pakistan initially favored routing through Mintaka Pass. In 1966, China citing the fact that Mintaka would be more susceptible to air strikes recommended the steeper Khunjerab Pass instead. About 810 Pakistanis and about 200 Chinese workers lost their lives, mostly in landslides and falls, while building the highway. Over 140 Chinese workers who died during the construction are buried in the Chinese cemetery in Gilgit. The route of the KKH traces one of the many paths of the ancient Silk Road.\n\nOn the Pakistani side, the road was constructed by FWO (Frontier Works Organisation), employing the Pakistan Army Corps of Engineers. The Engineer-in-Chief's Branch of the Pakistani Army completed a project documenting the history of the highway. The book \"History of Karakoram Highway\" was written by Brigadier (Retired) Muhammad Mumtaz Khalid in two volumes. In the first volume the author discusses the land and the people, the pre-historic communication system in the Northern Areas, the need for an all-weather road link with Gilgit, and the construction of Indus Valley Road. The second volume records events leading to the conversion of the Indus Valley Road to the Karakoram Highway, the difficulties in its construction, and the role of Pakistan Army Corps of Engineers and their Chinese counterparts in its construction.\n\nThe highway, connecting the Gilgit–Baltistan region to the ancient Silk Road, runs approximately from Kashgar, a city in the Xinjiang region of China, to Abbottabad, of Pakistan. An extension of the highway southwest from Abbottabad, in the form of the N-35 highway, meets the Grand Trunk Road, N-5, at Hasan Abdal, Pakistan.\n\nThe highway cuts through the between the Eurasian and Indian plates, where China, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan come within of each other. Owing largely to the extremely sensitive state of the Kashmir conflict between India and Pakistan, the Karakoram Highway has strategic and military importance to these nations, but particularly Pakistan and China.\n\nOn 30 June 2006, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Pakistani National Highway Authority (NHA) and China's State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) to rebuild and upgrade the Karakoram Highway. According to SASAC, the width will be expanded from , and its transport capacity will be increased three times its current capacity. In addition, the upgraded road will be designed to particularly accommodate heavy-laden vehicles and extreme weather conditions.\n\nChina and Pakistan are planning to link the Karakoram Highway to the southern port of Gwadar in Balochistan through the Chinese-aided Gwadar-Dalbandin railway, which extends to Rawalpindi.\n\nOn 4 January 2010, the KKH was closed in the Hunza Valley, eliminating through traffic to China except by small boats. A massive landslide upstream from Hunza's capital of Karimabad created the potentially unstable Attabad Lake, which reached in length and over in depth by the first week of June 2010 when it finally began flowing over the landslide dam. The landslide destroyed parts of villages while killing many inhabitants. The subsequent lake displaced thousands and inundated over of the KKH including the long KKH bridge south of Gulmit.\n\nIt is highly questionable whether the lake, which reached in length in 2011, will drain. Goods from and to further north are transported over the lake by small vessels, to be reloaded onto trucks at the other end. In July 2012 Pakistan began constructing a revised route around the lake at a higher elevation with five new tunnels, with total length of 7.12 km, and two new bridges. The work was contracted out to the China Road & Bridge Corporation (CRBC) and was completed in September 2015—see Karakorum Highway Realignment (China-Pakistan Friendship Tunnels) below.\n\nAt in length, the Pakistani section of the highway starts at Abbottabad, although the N-35 of which KKH is now part, officially starts from Hasan Abdal. The highway meets the Indus River at Thakot and continues along the river until Jaglot, where the Gilgit River joins the Indus River. This is where three great mountain ranges meet: the Hindukush, the Himalaya, and the Karakoram. The western end of the Himalayas, marked by the ninth highest peak in the world, Nanga Parbat, can be seen from the highway. The highway passes through the capital of Gilgit–Baltistan, Gilgit, and continues through the valleys of Nagar and Hunza, along the Hunza River. Some of the highest mountains and famous glaciers in the Karakoram can be seen in this section. The highway meets the Pakistani-Chinese border at Khunjerab Pass.\n\nAs part of the $46 billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor, reconstruction and upgrade works on the Pakistani portion of the Karakoram Highway (KKH) are underway. The KKH spans the 806-kilometre-long distance between the China-Pakistan border and the town of Hasan Abdal. At Burhan Interchange near Hasan Abdal, the existing M1 motorway will intersect the Karakoram Highway. From there, access onwards to Islamabad and Lahore continues as part of the existing M1 and M2 motorways, while Hasan Abdal will also be at intersection of the Eastern Alignment, and the Western Alignment which will lead towards the port city of Gwadar.\n\nA large section of the highway was damaged by a landslide in 2010 that created Attabad Lake. The resulting landslides cut off both the Hunza River and Karakoram Highway resulting in the formation of the reservoir. Prior to completion of the bypass, all vehicular traffic had to be loaded onto boats to traverse the new reservoir. Construction of the tunnels began in 2012 and required 36 months for completion. The 24 km-long series of bridges and tunnels was inaugurated on 15 September 2015 at a cost of $275 million and was hailed as a major accomplishment. The route comprises 5 tunnels and several bridges. The longest tunnel is 3360 m, followed by 2736 m, 435 m, 410 m and 195 m, while the Shishkat Great Bridge on Hunza River is 480 m long. The realignment restored the road link between Pakistan and China.\n\nThe Chinese section of the Karakoram Highway follows the north-south Sarykol (\"Yellow Lake\") valley just west of the Tarim Basin. The road from Kashgar goes southwest about and then turns west to enter the Gez (Ghez) River canyon between Chakragil mountain on the north and Kongur mountain on the south. From the Gez canyon the population becomes Kirgiz. Having climbed up to the valley, the road turns south past Kongur, Karakul Lake, and Muztagh Ata on the east. Below Muztagh Ata, a new road goes west over the Kulma Pass to join the Pamir Highway in Gorno-Badakhshan, Tajikistan. The main road continues over a low pass (where the population becomes Tajik) and descends to Tashkurgan. Further south, a valley and jeep track leads west toward the Wakhjir Pass to the Wakhan Corridor. Next the road turns west to a checkpost and small settlement at Pirali, and then the Khunjerab Pass, beyond which is Pakistan, the Khunjerab River and Hunza.\n\n\nIn recent years the highway has sought to become a 'niche' adventure tourism destination although Pakistan attracts few international tourists compared to domestic ones. But in recent years, owing to the improved security situation in the country, the number of foreign tourists coming to Pakistan has more than tripled since 2013, standing at 1.75 million in 2016. \n\nAmong the tourist destinations in the country, KKH is deemed as the \"third best\" by \"The Guardian\". The road has given mountaineers and cyclists easier access to the many high mountains, glaciers, and lakes in the area. The highway provides access to Gilgit and Skardu from Islamabad by road. These are the two major hubs for mountaineering expeditions in the Gilgit–Baltistan region of Pakistan-administered Kashmir.\n\nThe Gilgit–Baltistan Administration of Pakistan-administered Kashmir and the Xinjiang Administration of China have signed an agreement to issue border passes to their permanent residents. This pass is valid for a calendar year and is used to travel through Khunjerab Pass only. Karakoram Highway has been described as one of the most beautiful destinations in the world. KKH provides a cross country road trip from Hasan Abdal, Pakistan to Kashghar. \n\nKarakoram Highway provides the pathway to expeditions for almost all peaks in Gilgit–Baltistan, Kashmir and several peaks in Xinjiang China. The region includes some of the world's largest glaciers like the Baltoro and Siachen Glaciers. Five of the Eight-thousanders (mountains taller than ) of the world that are in Pakistan are accessible by the highway. The notable mountains that can be directly seen while travelling on the highway are:\n\n\nMany glaciers can be seen while travelling on the highway:\n\n\nSeveral rivers and lakes are made accessible by the highway. These include:\n\nThere are more than 50,000 pieces of rock art and petroglyphs all along the highway that are concentrated at ten major sites between Hunza and Shatial. The carvings were left by invaders, traders, and pilgrims who passed along the trade route, as well as by locals. The earliest date back to between 5000 and 1000 BC, showing single animals, triangular men, and hunting scenes in which the animals are larger than the hunters. These carvings were pecked into the rock with stone tools and are covered with a thick patina that yields their age.\n\nThere are several transport companies in Pakistan that offer bus service between major towns of the highway and from Rawalpindi and Lahore. The largest company is Northern Areas Transport Corporation (NATCO). Other companies are Masherbrum Travel, Silk Route Travel, K-2 movers, Anchan Travel, and Saeed Travel.\n\nOn 1 June 2006, a daily bus service began between Gilgit, Gilgit–Baltistan, and Kashghar, Xinjiang, through the Sust and Tashkorgan border area.\n\nThe KKH is best travelled in the spring or early autumn. Heavy snow during harsh winters can shut the highway down for extended periods. Heavy monsoon rains around July and August cause occasional landslides that can block the road for hours or more. The border crossing between China and Pakistan at Khunjerab Pass is open only between 1 May and 31 December.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22604338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22604338", "title": "Katepanikion", "text": "Katepanikion\n\nA katepanikion () was a Byzantine term for an area under the control of a \"katepano\". It was used to describe two different types of administrative divisions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7095302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7095302", "title": "Larger urban zone", "text": "Larger urban zone\n\nThe larger urban zone (LUZ), or Functional Urban Area (FUA), is a measure of the population and expanse of metropolitan areas in Europe. It consists of a city and its commuting zone.\n\nThe definition was introduced in 2004 by Eurostat, the statistical agency of the European Union (EU), in agreement with the national statistics offices in the member states. Eurostat data is provided on cities in the EU, its candidate countries and EFTA countries. Several cities were excluded by definition from the 2004 list of LUZs on technical, definitional grounds, such as the coincidence of the metropolitan area with the urban zone.\n\nThe LUZ represents an attempt at a harmonised definition of the metropolitan area. Eurostat's objective was to have an area from which a significant share of the residents commute into the city, a concept known as the \"functional urban region.\" To ensure a good data availability, Eurostat adjusts the LUZ boundaries to administrative boundaries that approximate the functional urban region.\n\nIn 2006 LUZ definitions were changed significantly, improving the comparability of LUZ definitions across different countries, and allowing for almost all cities to be included.\n\nThis is a list of larger urban zones. The Urban Audit also includes cities from EFTA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland) and EU candidate countries. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) uses a similar definition of Functional Urban Area to represent population sizes of cities in OECD countries. This data is also included.\n\nThe figures in the Eurostat database are an attempt at a compromise between harmonised data for all of the European Union, and with availability of statistical data, making comparisons more accurate.\n\nThis is a list of larger urban zones by population as of 2004. The 2004 Urban Audit also includes cities from EFTA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland) and EU candidate countries, although the only candidate country for which there is available data is Turkey. Some cities, including Marseille, Lille, Nice, Cordoba, Badajoz, Toulon and Montpellier were excluded from the 2004 list on technical, definitional grounds, such as the coincidence of the metropolitan area with the urban zone.\n\nEurostat's Urban Audit is about much more than demographics. In order for it to be useful as a policy tool to the European Commission and other authorities it contains data for over 250 indicators across the following domains:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16287130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16287130", "title": "Line of greatest slope", "text": "Line of greatest slope\n\nIn topography, the line of greatest slope is a curve following the steepest slope. In mountain biking and skiing, the line of greatest slope is sometimes called the fall line.\n\nMathematically, the line (or path) of greatest slope from a point is determined by the gradient of height, taken as a potential field with respect to an acceleration from the force of gravity. Lines of greatest slope are analogous to lines of force acting to accelerate an object downward at that point. These lines are orthogonal to contour lines. Discounting inertial forces and terrain roughness, a ball rolling down a slope, or water flowing down, will accelerate in the direction of greatest slope.\n\nIn mountain biking the line of greatest slope defines the fall line, which is the path a trail will follow to descend a hill or mountain with the shortest path, and will also cause the rider to gain the most velocity (assuming brakes are not used, and other factors such as rolling resistance are equal).\n\nIn mountain climbing, the line of greatest slope defines the fall line, which is the path a climber will take to gain the most elevation with the shortest possible path.\n\nThe line of greatest slope has practical significance in map reading. On the terrain it is often far more discernible, even intuitively obvious, rather than accurately picking out the consistent height level on what is likely the undulating uneven ground along the ground represented on the contour line. But knowing that a greatest slope vector is orthogonal to the contour line, one can readily deduce the direction of the contour lines from the line of greatest slope. The extent and overall direction of the contour line to a map scale can only be found on the topographic map.\nBy noting the corresponding compass vector, walking along the contour one can line up a hand held compass aligning the expected direction, and eye-balling the line of contour's estimated level, move up or down along the bearing faster— to closely locate a desired point (planned point) along the hillside. Pragmatically, this can be 'good enough' for rough project landscaping, such as timber clear cutting the work site of a structure like a bridge abutment or connecting ramps. The approximation can then be refined by transit and other surveyor tools to construct on target.\n\n"}
{"id": "2501754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501754", "title": "List of My Hero episodes", "text": "List of My Hero episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes of the BBC comedy series My Hero, starring Ardal O'Hanlon as Ultronian superhero George Sunday and Emily Joyce as his human wife, Janet. Six series were broadcast between 2000 and 2006. Each series featured a varying number of episodes, with the first and second series containing six episodes, series three through five containing ten episodes each and series six containing eight episodes.\n\nThe first series was the only series to include a Christmas Special. Although the series gathered consistent viewing figures, figures for the sixth series declined heavily following the appointment of James Dreyfus to replace outgoing lead actor O'Hanlon. The series was subsequently axed in 2006.\n\nThree of the six series have been released on DVD; two on Region 1 DVD and one on Region 2. Fans have since petitioned the BBC to release the complete series on DVD.\n\nSeries six was the first and only series to feature James Dreyfus in the lead role, taking over from the outgoing Ardal O'Hanlon. Due to declining ratings, and the poor public reception to Dreyfus, the series was axed, leading to the final two episodes being broadcast on Sunday lunchtimes, rather than the prime-time slot on Friday evenings.\n\n"}
{"id": "317106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317106", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: H", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: H\n\nThe DST column shows the months in which Daylight Saving Time, a.k.a. Summer Time, begins and ends. A blank DST box usually indicates that the location stays on Standard Time all year, although in some cases the location stays on Summer Time all year. If a location is currently on DST, add one hour to the time in the Time column.\n\n"}
{"id": "295884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295884", "title": "List of countries by rail transport network size", "text": "List of countries by rail transport network size\n\nThis list of countries by rail transport network size based on International Union of Railways data ranks countries by length of rail lines worked at end of year updated with other reliable sources. These figures also include urban/suburban mass-transport systems; as well as lines which are not used for passenger services.\n\n\n\nPrimary source: UIC data\n"}
{"id": "1342939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342939", "title": "List of extreme points of India", "text": "List of extreme points of India\n\nThe extreme points of India include the coordinates that are further north, south, east or west than any other location in India; and the highest and the lowest altitudes in the country. The northernmost point claimed by India is in territory disputed between India and Pakistan. With the exception of Kanyakumari (Cape Comorin), the southern-most location of mainland India, all other extreme locations are uninhabited. But some consider Indira point as the extreme tip but the consideration is neither right nor wrong.\n\nThe latitude and longitude are expressed in , in which a positive latitude value refers to the northern hemisphere, and a negative value refers to the southern hemisphere. Similarly, a positive longitude value refers to the eastern hemisphere, and a negative value refers to the western hemisphere. The coordinates used in this article are sourced from Google Earth, which makes use of the WGS84 geodetic reference system. Additionally, a negative altitude value refers to land below sea level.\n\nThe northernmost point that India claims lies in the territory now administered by China as part of Xinjiang but once claimed by Hunza and therefore claimed by India as part of the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir. The northernmost point administered by India lies in Jammu & Kashmir. India's claim to the whole of Kashmir is disputed by Pakistan and China, with the territory currently partitioned into Pakistan's state of Gilgit-Baltistan, the Chinese region of Aksai Chin and the Indian-administered state of Jammu and Kashmir. This list provides the northernmost point as claimed by India; the northern-most disputed point that is administered by India; and the northern-most undisputed point in India. This case also applies to the highest elevated regions.\n\nIndia's eastern-most state is Arunachal Pradesh. Part of the state is claimed by China as \"South Tibet\", though administered by India, The easternmost of Indian-administered territory is located in this disputed region. Consequently, this list mentions both the disputed and undisputed eastern-most points in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "860451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=860451", "title": "List of heads of government of French Cameroon", "text": "List of heads of government of French Cameroon\n\nThis is a list of Heads of Government of French Cameroon (Cameroun).\n\n"}
{"id": "15219068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15219068", "title": "List of historical German names for places in Slovenia", "text": "List of historical German names for places in Slovenia\n\nThis is a list of German language names for places located in Slovenia. Those names have important historical value.\n\nUntil 1866, the only official language used in the Empire of Austria administration was the\nGerman. Some German place names were only \"Germanised\" versions of the original Slavic\nnames.\n\nThe compromise of 1867 marked the start of a recognition of the need to bilingualism in\nareas where an important proportion of another language was used.\n\nIn the provinces that now are (completely or not) part of Slovenia, the languages used\nwere (near 1900):\n\n\nIt may thus be more appropriate to state that German names were all \"official\" endonyms.\n\nAs illustrated by the name of post-offices, many towns and villages received a dual name\nafter 1867 (the fact became a law in 1871), except - as stated - where there was a clear\nGerman speaking majority.\n\nThe code (used in the list) of the Austrian Districts \"Bezirkshauptmannschaften\" in 1900 is given hereafter, for verification and further use:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39575917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39575917", "title": "List of largest unfragmented rivers", "text": "List of largest unfragmented rivers\n\nThis is a list of the largest river basins without fragmentation by dams in their catchments, ordered by average annual discharge.\n\nTo qualify for inclusion, a river must not only have no dams on its “main” stem, but also no dams on any tributary. For this reason, major world rivers such as the Amazon, Lena, Irrawaddy, Amur, and Fraser are disqualified because of dams on tributary streams.\n\nMany of the rivers in this list have uncertain discharges. With the exception of those in Russia, streamgauges have seldom (if ever) been placed on the majority of the largest unfragmented river systems, due to the remoteness and/or ruggedness of the terrain in which they are located. Apart from the Fly which is clearly the largest, all ranks listed here are not perfectly certain, and there also exist a number of rivers in Sundaland that might qualify with reliable discharge data, such as the Kapuas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29805870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29805870", "title": "List of songs about Atlanta", "text": "List of songs about Atlanta\n\n"}
{"id": "10654313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10654313", "title": "List of types of amber", "text": "List of types of amber\n\nThis is a list of types of amber.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22259308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22259308", "title": "MineCam", "text": "MineCam\n\nThe MineCam is a remote exploration camera built by I.A.Recordings. It is used for mine shaft exploration and other similar environments. It was originally conceptualized in 1988, and since went under several design revisions. The name MineCam, is a pun on MiniCam, an early hand-held broadcast camera built by CBS Laboratories.\n\nPeter Eggleston of I.A.Recordings first had the idea for what became \"MineCam\" in 1988. He had been visiting some metal mines in Wales with the Shropshire Caving and Mining Club and spent several hours setting up a single rope technique rig to descend a remote shaft, only to find that there were no ways off at the bottom. This was the motivation to build a miniature camera which would allow enthusiasts to explore hard to reach, unsafe, or impossible to reach areas.\n\nThe remote exploration of mines prior to 1988 had been done commercially for several years by pipeline camera firms using equipment that needed to be housed in a vehicle and powered by a generator. Many old mine shafts are remote from roads though, so Peter's final goal was a small lightweight battery-powered kit which could be carried on foot. The first two versions of MineCam did not achieve this, but tested various approaches with the video technology available at the time.\n\nMineCam 1 used a monochrome vidicon camera in a waterproof housing made out of a 10 cm plastic sewer pipe and fittings, with an acrylic window. This was successfully tested in the deep end of a swimming pool. The camera was insensitive - it needed a 150 W lamp, which required a 240 V supply, but so did the camera. The cable was 100 m of video co-axial and power, taped together at 2 m intervals and numbered to give a crude depth measurement. The camera and lamp were heavy, so an old 6 mm static climbing rope was used to support it. The monitor was a 10 cm portable TV.\n\nMineCam 1 worked, but the monochrome image was sometimes difficult to interpret. It was time to try colour, and this was not yet available from the commercial shaft inspection firms.\n\nMineCam 2 used parts from a disused Sony 'Handycam.' The colour CCD chip was removed and put in a round tobacco tin connected by a short cable to the rest of the electronics in a small Eddystone die-cast box. The 'Eddy box' contained extra hardware to convert the Y/C (700 kHz) direct colour-under output to composite PAL, and provide various unusual power supply voltages. Because of the colour stripe filter and the early technology, this CCD was only as sensitive as the monochrome vidicon.\n\nBoth MineCam 1 and 2 needed to be lowered twice to investigate a shaft. First, they were lowered looking vertically down, and notes made of the depth and heading of any interesting features. The camera was then hauled to the surface and re-rigged to look horizontally at the interesting items found earlier. A remote tilt mechanism was needed as it would halve the time and effort.\n\nTo indicate heading, MineCams 1 and 2 used an ordinary spherical fluid-mounted car compass on an aluminium arm about 30 cm from the camera. A supplementary lens (from an old pair of spectacles) glued to the acrylic window brought the compass into focus at the corner of the frame.\n\nMark 3 was radically different. A high quality colour camera became available, a Pulnix TMC-X not much bigger than a Mini-Maglite. It was also much more sensitive, so the light could be smaller and a remote tilt mechanism became practicable. A coded control signal was needed that would go down the video cable to save using extra wires, so a model radio control system was adapted, giving 2 proportional channels for tilt and eventual pan movements. The 27 MHz carrier was easily combined and split from the baseband video. The first tilt motor was a standard model control servo with 180 degree rotation. The camera head and light were mounted in an open-framework cage about 25 cm long, rotated on a horizontal axis by the servo. Despite taking care, motor gears were frequently stripped when the cage hit obstacles and the servo had to be replaced regularly! The light source needed to pan with the camera, so had to be small enough to fit in the cage. A 12 V 50 W quartz-halogen lamp with 5 cm diameter integral dichroic reflector was fitted, powered from a small switch-mode PSU. Although the lighting power had been reduced, it still required a high voltage supply down the cable to reduce voltage drop, so 240 V was still used.\n\nThe cage rotated in an aluminium yoke attached to the bottom of a waterproof plastic box containing the rest of the electronics, including a power supply for the camera.\n\nTo be able to use the system in locations remote from mains power and not accessible by a vehicle carrying a generator, I.A.Recordings obtained a 150 W inverter and 12V lead-acid battery from an outdoor leisure shop.\n\nMineCam 3 was the first to use an electronic compass for heading display. Tandy (Radio Shack) had developed a device using a flux gate sensor to give x & y components of the Earth's magnetic field which drove the orthogonal windings of a 360 degree mechanical indicator, for use as a car compass. I.A.Recordings discarded the indicator and used the x & y voltages to control the position of a flashing spot added to the video picture. This gave a compass-circle type display on screen. If the x (east-west) signal was inverted, when looking vertically down, the spot appeared to be fixed above a point on the ground as the camera rotated.\n\nElectromagnetic interference from the switch mode power supply and harmonics of its square-wave power waveform appeared in the video signal as noise. This was reduced by careful layout, screening and the use of a single-point ground return.\n\nThe miniature camera was waterproofed by sliding it into a square-section 25 mm wide aluminium tube (only slightly bigger than the camera), with a glass window glued in one end, and a cable gland at the other. The waterproof container sold for this camera was too large and heavy for the MineCam, but the aluminium tube is not as watertight. It has an IP rating of between 66 and 67.\n\nFor MineCam 4, the final major development was a pan motor. It was difficult to arrange a system which allowed 360 degree rotation of the tilt yoke whilst maintaining connections for video, tilt servo, lighting power, camera power and flux-gate sensor. An RS Components geared dc servo motor was used, driven from the remote control receiver, and a thrust bearing and Oldham coupler. The motor's powerful magnet interfered with the compass sensor so a sheet of mu-metal donated by a helpful local firm was formed into a screen round the whole motor & gearbox assembly. The tilt servo did not seem to cause the same problem, as it is smaller and rotates with the sensor on the yoke. Wherever possible, all hardware is plastic or non-ferrous metal.\n\nOther improvements in MineCam 4 include a high-torque tilt servo, a microphone with balanced amplifier, a laser diode module beside the camera to produce a spot of light on the subject for range and size estimation and experimentation with bat detection and gas sensors.\n\nThe control box is and contains a power supply, the servo control transmitter and a video equaliser. The cable is now 200 m of thin multi-core containing one coaxial and 5 single wires. As it is not load-bearing, a rope still has to be used and 9 mm static climbing rope was found to be better than anything thinner, including wire rope, at preventing twist. The rope often becomes tangled with the cable, so I.A.Recordings is still looking for a weight-bearing cable. The 180 degree tilt range allows the underside of shaft caps to be inspected. Compared with commercial versions which were still monochrome and used a mirror to switch the image from vertical to horizontal, the MineCam was much more flexible, and the goal of having a complete system that could be carried by individuals on foot had been reached. The picture was recorded on U-Matic, then Hi-8 and now on mini-DV tape.\n\nTo get the camera out over the centre of larger shafts, I.A.Recordings use either a scaffold pole with a pulley on the end, or for shafts that have run-in so the crater on the surface is several metres wide, they have developed a \"Tyrolean traverse\" or \"Blondin\" arrangement. A large diameter pulley (a Sinclair C5 wheel) is mounted on a trolley which is winched along a wire rope slung across the shaft and kept in tension. When the pulley is centred, the traverse rope is locked-off and the camera lowering rope can be released.\n\nThe 50 W lamp & reflector is a convenient size and is available in a variety of beam-widths, but the idea of the dichroic reflector preventing heat being reflected forward is actually a disadvantage for the MineCam. The lamp head has to be enclosed to protect it and to screen the power supply interference, but without careful internal design of reflectors and baffles, the housing can get very hot.\n\nMineCam 4 has proved reliable and useful and gives a high-quality colour picture good enough to use in video productions. It is featured for example in the I.A.Recordings video \"Snailbeach\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8922470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8922470", "title": "Mokroluški Creek", "text": "Mokroluški Creek\n\nThe Mokroluški Creek ( / \"Mokroluški potok\", \"Mokri Lug Creek\") is a stream in north-central Serbia, which forms a former right tributary to the Sava river. During its entire course, it runs through the urban section of Belgrade. It is one of the 40 rivers, streams and creeks that flow or used to flow through Belgrade, but the majority of them are conducted underground into the city sewage system which is also the case with Mokroluški potok.\n\nThe Mokroluški potok originates in Belgrade's eastern neighborhood of Veliki Mokri Lug, in the municipality of Zvezdara, which also gives the name to the stream (\"Mokri Lug stream\"). The Mokroluški potok flows generally in a north-west direction and its valley is used as a route for the Belgrade-Niš highway (constructed 1967-74). After it passes the cemetery of the neighboring Mali Mokri Lug, it reaches the neighborhood of Medaković III where the stream is conducted underground for the first time. The channeled mouth of the stream is still visible under the Gazela Bridge.\n\nAfter an underground flow of about one kilometer, the stream resurfaces in the neighborhood of Medaković II, but one kilometer later, in the neighborhood of Marinkova Bara, it goes underground again. Formerly, it used to flow through the neighborhoods of Dušanovac, Autokomanda and Jatagan Mala. The area in the lower valley of the now underground stream was used for digging earth and gravel which were used to cover and drain the swamps on the Sava's right bank, so that neighborhoods of Savamala and Bara Venecija could be constructed, and for the building of Belgrade's central railway station. After the works were completed, the area around Mokroluški potok was left as a steep, elongated cut in the ground and so was given its present name (Prokop).\n\nBefore it was channeled, the stream often flooded the area of Dušanovac and Marinkova Bara during the heavy rains, as it was where it received two tributaries, Duboki potok from the north and Kumodraški potok, from the south.\n\nThe valley of the creek was a route for the Roman aqueduct, which conducted the waters from the Mokri Lug area to the Singidunum castrum. At some point, it received waters from another aqueduct, from the left, which originated in the modern neighborhood of Kumodraž. Both Mokri Lug and Kumodraž are located on the hills, so the natural inclination allowed for the water to flow downhill to Singidunum.\n\nThough undistinguished in terms of hydrology, the stream was important in Belgrade geography, while in architecture it has been described as the \"key topology character of Belgrade's history\". Its valley serves as the route for the highway. A small bridge (\"most\") over the stream, near its mouth into the Sava, gave name to the local kafana \"Mostar\" after which, in turn, the entire neighborhood was named Mostar. In architecture, \"the narrative of the Belgrade's terrain ended steeply at the (stream's) line, finalizing the development of Sava amphitheater and marking the edge of the city in its next spreading to the south, further from the Belgrade Fortress and the Trench (which surrounded it)\".\n"}
{"id": "3020844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3020844", "title": "Mount Afadja", "text": "Mount Afadja\n\nMount Afadja is one of the highest mountains in Ghana standing at an elevation of . The mountain is located in the Agumatsa Range near the villages of Gbledi and Liati Wote, in the Volta Region of Ghana at the border with Togo. \n'Afadja' is the name of the mountain whereas 'to' in the Ewe dialect means mountain therefore, it is called 'Afadjato' by the indigenes. The correct name would be 'Mount Afadja' as 'Mount Afadjato' will be a repetition of the 'Mountain.' Mount Afadja is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the Volta Region of Ghana welcoming thousands of visitors from around the globe annually.\n\nAbout a kilometer ( less than a mile) to the east, is the nearby peak of Aduadu, which is higher than Afadjato, also standing at over 900 metres. \n\nWhen the indigenes migrated to the area and saw the mountain it looked like the mound in which water yam is planted, water yam being called \"Avadze\" in Ewe. Moreover there were some creeping plants on the mountain that resembled the water yam plant; they therefore called it \"Avadze-to\". Today the word has been palatalized into \"Afadjato\". \n\nThe nearby Tagbo Falls and Wli Falls (the highest in West Africa) are also considered tourist attractions. There are several hidden attractions of caves, streams and other waterfalls in the area.\n"}
{"id": "8051216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8051216", "title": "Nagykörű", "text": "Nagykörű\n\nNagykörű is a village in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, in the Northern Great Plain region of central Hungary.\n\nThe village is located on the right bank of River Tisza, 25 kilometres away to the northeast from Szolnok. It can be approached on road by scheduled overland bus from the west, by ferry from the direction of Fegyvernek (from the east), or by bicycle on Tisza-dam.\n\nNagykörű got its name because it was almost completely compassed by Tisza before the river control. The settlement was rising as an isle among the neighboring river meadows. The first written document of Nagykörű monastery derives from year 1212. The village itself was founded at the beginning of the 14th century, and it belonged to the property of Ban Lothar of Gutkeled.\n\nThe estate called Kürümonostora was endowed by King Charles Robert in 1318 to Peter Kompolty, chamberlain of the queen. Owing to its geographic position, Nagykörű managed to survive the Turkish rule successfully. According to the legend, the Turkish troops were lost in the marsh on 19 July 1530 (day of Elijah). After expelling Turks, the Treasury and an Austrian officer called Enczinger became holders of the village.\nIn the middle of 18th century, Nagykörű started to develop spectacularly. The first vineyard was planted on Homok (sandy soil) by Baron Lőrinc Orczy in 1751. Thanks to landlord György Petrovay, this place became the cultivation area of the famous Germersdorf cherry in the second half of 19th century. Nagykörű owns title \"Cherry garden of Hungary\" as the biggest (200 hectares) cherry garden of the country can be found here. Cherry of Nagykörű is a trade-mark.\n\nIn 2001, according to the census, 94 percent of the population avowed themselves Hungarian, while 6 percent of the population avowed themselves Roma.\n\nWorldwide famous cherry of Nagykörű is considered to be the cost-of-living source of inhabitants. Cherry is principally grown for export. Meanwhile, villageous tourism is also prospering. The ratio of resident population is decreasing, whereas fourth of the houses are used as holiday resorts. The surrounding neighborhood is a real paradise for tourists, line-fishermen, and bathers.\n\n"}
{"id": "6884188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6884188", "title": "Nemuro Strait", "text": "Nemuro Strait\n\nNemuro Strait, also called Notsuke Strait and Kunashirsky Strait (), is a strait, located at , separating Kunashir Island of the Kuril Islands, Russia (claimed by Japan) from the Shiretoko Peninsula, Hokkaidō, Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "17879938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17879938", "title": "Noapara, Bangladesh", "text": "Noapara, Bangladesh\n\nNoapara, Noāpāra, Naopāra, Nāopāra, Noyapāra, Naoāpāra, Nowapara, or Nawāpāra is the name of 33 places in Bangladesh:\n\n"}
{"id": "39735209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39735209", "title": "Otto Hilgard Tittmann", "text": "Otto Hilgard Tittmann\n\nOtto Hilgard Tittmann (August 20, 1850 – August 21, 1938) was a German-American geodesist, geographer, and astronomer\n\nTittmann was born in 1850, in Belleville, Illinois to revolutionary parents fleeing the aftermath of the 1848 revolutions. He attended school in St. Louis, and in 1867 joined the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. In 1874 he was assistant astronomer in Japan to view the transit of Venus, and from 1889 until 1893 he was in charge of weights and measures. In 1888 he co-founded the National Geographic Society, and from 1895 until 1900 he was assistant in charge of the US Coast and Geodetic Survey. From 1900 until 1915 he was Superintendent of the Survey, and from 1915 until 1919 he was president of the National Geographic Society. He died in Leesburg, Virginia, in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "56192086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56192086", "title": "Protected areas of American Samoa", "text": "Protected areas of American Samoa\n\nThis is a list of protected areas of American Samoa.\n\n"}
{"id": "4261889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4261889", "title": "Prowincja", "text": "Prowincja\n\nA prowincja (; plural: \"prowincje\") was the largest territorial subdivision in medieval and Renaissance-era Poland, and later in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The term designated each of the two largest constituents of the state: depending on the period, including \"Wielkopolska\" (Greater Poland), \"Małopolska\" (Lesser Poland) and (upon the formation of the Commonwealth) the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Ducal Prussia was often counted as part of the Greater Poland; Inflanty (Livonia) as part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and the Ruthenian territories were split between Lesser Poland and the Grand Duchy.\n\nThough larger than a voivodeship (\"województwo\"), the \"prowincja\" was less important in terms of offices and power. In most respects, it was merely a titular unit of administration. The real power lay with the voivodeship—and, to a lesser extent, with \"ziemia\"s (lands).\n\nOccasionally the term voivodeship will be misleadingly translated into English as a province, leading to potential confusion.\n\nThe Polish term \"\"prowincja\" has not been used to denote any part of independent Poland since the Third Partition of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (1795)—unlike \"ziemia\", which has continued to be used for certain geographical areas. Since 1795, the Polish word \"prowincja\"\" has been used only for certain foreign-imposed units of administration within territories of the old Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\n"}
{"id": "45310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45310", "title": "Qattara Depression", "text": "Qattara Depression\n\nThe Qattara Depression ( \"Munḫafaḍ al-Qaṭṭārah\") is a depression in northwestern Egypt, specifically in the Matruh Governorate. The depression is part of the Western Desert of Egypt. \nThe Qattara Depression lies below sea level, and its bottom is covered with salt pans, sand dunes, and salt marshes. The depression extends between the latitudes of 28°35' and 30°25' north and the longitudes of 26°20' and 29°02' east. \n\nThe Qattara Depression was created by the interplay of salt weathering and wind erosion. Some 20 kilometres west of the depression lie the oases of Siwa in Egypt and Jaghbub in Libya in smaller but similar depressions.\n\nThe Qattara Depression contains the second lowest point in Africa at an altitude of below sea level, the lowest point being Lake Assal in Djibouti. The depression covers about , a size comparable with Lake Ontario or twice as large as Lebanon. Due to its size and proximity to the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, studies have been made for the potential to generate hydroelectricity here.\n\nThe Qattara Depression has the shape of a teardrop, with its point facing east and the broad deep area facing southwest. The northern side of the depression is characterised by steep escarpments up to 280 meters high, marking the edge of the adjacent El Diffa plateau. To the south the depression slopes gently up to the Great Sand Sea.\n\nWithin the Depression are salt marshes, under the northwestern and northern escarpment edges, and extensive dry lake beds that flood occasionally. The marshes occupy approximately , although wind-blown sands are encroaching in some areas. About a quarter of the region is occupied by dry lakes composed of hard crust and sticky mud, and occasionally filled with water.\n\nThe depression was initiated by either wind or fluvial erosion in the late Neogene, but during the Quaternary Period the dominant mechanism was a combination of salt weathering and wind erosion working together. First, the salts break up the depression floor, then the wind blows away the resulting sands. This process is less effective in the eastern part of the depression, due to lower salinity groundwater.\n\nGroves of \"Acacia raddiana\", growing in shallow sandy depressions, and \"Phragmites\" swamps represent the only permanent vegetation. The acacia groves vary widely in biodiversity and rely on runoff from rainfall and groundwater to survive. The Moghra Oasis in the northeastern part of the Depression has a four km brackish lake and a \"Phragmites\" swamp.\n\nThe southwestern corner of the depression is part of the Siwa Protected Area which protects the wild oasis in and around the Siwa Oasis.\n\nThe Depression is an important habitat for the cheetah, with the largest number of recent sightings being in areas in the northern, western and northwestern part of the Qattara Depression, including the highly isolated, wild oases of Ain EI Qattara and Ein EI Ghazzalat and numerous acacia groves both inside and outside the depression.\n\nGazelles (\"Gazella dorcas\" and \"Gazella leptoceros\") also inhabit the Qattara Depression, being an important food source for the cheetah. The largest gazelle population exists in the southwestern part of the Qattara Depression within a vast area of wetlands and soft sand. The area of , includes the wild oases of Hatiyat Tabaghbagh and Hatiyat Umm Kitabain, and is a mosaic of lakes, salt marshes, scrubland, wild palm groves and \"Desmostachya bipinnata\" grassland.\n\nOther common fauna include the Cape hare (\"Lepus capensis\"), Egyptian jackal (\"Canis aureus hupstar\"), sand fox (\"Vulpes rueppelli\") and more rarely the fennec fox (\"Vulpes zerda\"). Barbary sheep (\"Ammotragus lervia\") were once common here but now they are few in numbers.\n\nExtinct species from the area include the scimitar oryx (\"Oryx dammah\"), addax (\"Addax nasomaculatus\") and bubal hartebeest (\"Alcelaphus buselaphus\"). Also the \"Droseridites baculatus\", an extinct plant known only from fossils of its pollen, was found at the Ghazalat-1 Well.\n\nThe climate of the Qattara Depression is highly arid with annual precipitation between 25 and 50 mm on the northern rim to less than 25 mm in the south of the depression. The average daily temperature varies between during summer and winter months. The prevailing wind forms a largely bimodal regime with most wind coming from north easterly and westerly directions. This causes the linear dune formations in the Western desert between the Qattara Depression and the Nile valley. Wind speeds peak in March with of 11.5 m/s (25.7 mph) and minimal in December with 3.2 m/s (7.2 mph).\nThe average wind speed is about 5–6 m/s (11.2-13.4 mph). Several days each year in the months March to May khamsin winds blow in from the south and bringing extremely high temperatures as well as sand and dust with them.\n\nThere is one permanent settlement in the Qattara Depression, the Qara Oasis. The oasis is located in the westernmost part of the depression and is inhabited by about 300 people. The Depression is also inhabited by the nomadic Bedouin people and their flocks, with the uninhabited Moghra oasis being important in times of water scarcity during the dry seasons.\n\nThe Qattara Depression contains many oil concessions, and several operational oil fields. The drilling companies include Royal Dutch Shell and the Apache Corporation.\n\nThe altitude of the depression was first measured in 1917 by an officer of the British Army leading a light car patrol into the region. The officer took readings of the height of the terrain with an aneroid barometer on behalf of John Ball, who later would also publish on the region. He discovered that the spring Ain EI Qattara lay about below sea level. Because the barometer got lost and the readings were so unexpected, this find had to be verified. During 1924-25, Ball again organised a survey party, this time with the sole purpose to triangulate the elevation on a westerly line from Wadi El Natrun. The survey was led by G.F. Walpole who had already distinguished himself by triangulating the terrain across from the Nile to Siwa via Bahariya. He confirmed the earlier readings and proved the presence of a huge area below sea level, with places as deep as .\n\nKnowledge about the geology of the Qattara Depression was greatly extended by Ralph Alger Bagnold, a British military commander and explorer, through numerous journeys in the 1920s and 1930s. Most notable was his 1927 journey during which he crossed the depression east to west and visited the oases of Qara and Siwa. Many of these trips used motor vehicles (Ford Model-Ts) which used special techniques for driving in desert conditions. These techniques were an important asset of the Long Range Desert Group which Bagnold founded in 1940.\n\nAfter the discovery of the depression, Ball published the triangulation findings about the region on October 1927 in The Geographical Journal. He also gave the region its name \"Qattara\" after the spring Ain EI Qattara where the first readings were taken. The name literally means \"dripping\" in Arabic. Six years later in 1933, Ball was the first to publish a proposal for flooding the region to generate hydroelectric power in his article \"The Qattara Depression of the Libyan Desert and the possibility of its utilisation for power-production\".\n\nDuring World War II, the depression's presence shaped the 1st and 2nd Battles of El Alamein. It was considered impassable by tanks and most other military vehicles because of features such as salt lakes, high cliffs and/or escarpments, and fech fech (very fine powdered sand). The cliffs in particular acted as an edge of the El Alamein battlefield, which meant the British Empire's forces could not be outflanked to the south. Both Axis and Allied forces built their defences in a line from the Mediterranean Sea to the Qattara Depression. These defences became known as the Devil's gardens, and they are for the most part still there, especially the extensive minefields. \n\nNo large army units entered the Depression, although German Afrika Korps patrols and the British Long Range Desert Group did operate in the area, since these small units had considerable experience in desert travel. The RAF's repair and salvage units (e.g. 58 RSU) used a route through the depression to salvage or recover aircraft that had landed or crashed in the Western desert away from the coastal plain. \n\nThe RSUs included a six-wheel-drive trucks, Coles cranes, and large trailers, and were particularly active from mid-1941 when Air Vice-Marshal G.G. Dawson arrived in Egypt to address the lack of serviceable aircraft. \n\nA German communications officer stationed in the depression was cited by Gordon Welchman as being unintentionally helpful in the breaking of the Enigma machine code, due to his regular transmissions stating there was \"nothing to report\".\n\nThe large size of the Qattara Depression and the fact that it falls to a depth of 133 meters below mean sea level has led to several proposals to create a massive hydroelectric power project in northern Egypt rivalling that of the Aswan High Dam. This project is known as the Qattara Depression Project. The proposals call for a large canal or tunnel being excavated from the Qattara due north of depending on the route chosen to the Mediterranean Sea to bring seawater into the area. \n\nAn alternative plan involved running a 320 kilometre (200 mile) pipeline northeast to the freshwater Nile River at Rosetta. Water would flow into a series of water penstocks which would generate electricity by releasing the water at 60 m below sea level. Because the Qattara Depression is in a very hot dry region with very little cloud cover, the water released at the level would spread out from the release point across the basin and evaporate from solar influx. Because of evaporation, more water can flow into the depression, thus forming a continual source of power. Eventually this would result in a hypersaline lake or a salt pan as the water would evaporate and leave behind the salt that it contained.\n\nPlans to use the Qattara Depression for the generation of electricity date back to 1912 from Berlin geographer Professor Penck. The subject was discussed in more detail by Dr. John Ball in 1927. In 1957 the American Central Intelligence Agency proposed to President Dwight Eisenhower that peace in the Middle East could be achieved by flooding the Qattara Depression. The resulting lagoon, according to the CIA, would have four benefits:\n\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, several proposals to flood the area were made by Friedrich Bassler and the \"Joint Venture Qattara\", a group of mainly German companies. They wanted to make use of peaceful nuclear explosions to construct a tunnel, drastically reducing construction costs compared to conventional methods. This project proposed to use 213 H-bombs, with yields of one to 1.5 megatons, detonated at depths of . This fit within the Atoms for Peace program proposed by President Dwight Eisenhower in 1953. Because it was frightened by this plan, the Egyptian government turned down the idea. \n\nPlanning experts and scientists intermittently put forward potentially viable options, whether of a tunnel or canal, as an economic, ecological, and energy solution in Egypt, often coupled with the idea of new settlements.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "850010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850010", "title": "Renaming of cities in India", "text": "Renaming of cities in India\n\nThe renaming of cities in India started in 1947 following the end of the British imperial period. Several changes were controversial, and not all proposed changes were implemented. Each had to be approved by the central government in New Delhi.\n\nThe renaming of states and territories in India has also taken place, but until recently with actual substantial name changes in both local language and in English such as the old British state name of Travancore-Cochin to Kerala (1956). The most notable recent exceptions are Indian English spelling-changes of \"Orissa\" to Odisha (March 2011) and the \"Union Territory of Pondicherry\" (which includes the City of Pondicherry) to Puducherry.\n\nIn the post-colonial era, several Indian states' names were changed. Some of these changes coincided with the States Reorganisation Act of 1956, a major reform of the boundaries of India's states and territories that organised them along linguistic lines. At this time, for example, Travancore-Cochin was renamed Kerala. Later state name changes include the reorganisation of Madhya Bharat into Madhya Pradesh in 1959; and the renamings of the Madras State to Tamil Nadu in 1969, of the Mysore State to Karnataka in 1973, and of Uttaranchal to Uttarakhand in 2007.\n\nName changes have varied with respect to the levels of language at which they have been applied, and also accepted. Some of these local name changes were changes made in all languages: the immediate local name, and also all India's other languages. An example of this is the renaming of predominantly Hindi-speaking Uttaranchal () to a new local Hindi name ( \"Uttarakhand\"). Other changes were only changes in some of the indigenous languages. For example, the renaming of the Madras Presidency to Madras State in 1947 and then Tamil Nadu in 1969 required non-Tamil speakers to change from an approximation of the British name ( \"Madras Presidency\", then \"Madras State\" ) to a native Tamil name ( \"Tamil Nadu\", \"Tamil land\").\n\nIn general, changes to the local names of cities in the indigenous languages are less common. However, a change in English may sometimes also be a reflection of changes in other Indian languages other than the specific local one. For example, the change of Madras ( \"Madras\") to Chennai ( \"Chennai\") was reflected in many of India's languages, and incidentally in English, while the Tamil endonym had always been Chennai and remained unaffected by the change. Similarly, Bombay, which was always called 'Mumbai' in Marathi, was restored to Mumbai in 1996.\n\nThe renaming of cities is often specifically from English to Indian English in connection with that dialect's internal reforms. In other words, the city itself is not actually renamed in the local language, and the local name (or endonym) in the indigenous languages of India does not change, but the official spelling in Indian English is amended. An example is the change from English \"Calcutta\" to English \"Kolkata\" – the local Bengali name ( \"Kôlkata\") did not change. Such changes in English spelling may be in order to better reflect a more accurate phonetic transliteration of the local name, or may be for other reasons. In the early years after Indian independence, many name changes were effected in northern India for English spellings of Hindi place names that had simply been romanised inconsistently by the British administration – such as the British spelling \"Jubbulpore,\" renamed \"Jabalpur\" () among the first changes in 1947. These changes did not generate significant controversy. More recent and high-profile changes – including renaming such major cities as Calcutta to Kolkata – have generated greater controversy. Since independence, such changes have typically been enacted officially by legislation at local or national Indian government level, and may or may not then be adopted by the Indian media, particularly the influential Indian press. In the case of smaller towns and districts which were less notable outside and inside India, and where a well known English name (or exonym) could not be said to exist, older spellings used under British India may not have had any specific legislation other than changes in practice on the romanisation of indigenous Indian language names.\n\nAside from changes to the official English spellings of local names there have also been renaming proposals to realign the official name, hence the English name with an alternative local name. Ethnically sensitive examples include the proposals by the Bharatiya Janata Party (1990, 2001) to rename Ahmedabad to Karnavati and Allahabad to Prayag. These two proposals are changes from the historically Mughal name to a Hindu native name. These can be represented as a change from Urdu language to Hindi language, but since the two languages are variants of Hindustani the proposal is effectively a cultural and ethno-religious proposal rather than a linguistic one.\n\nOfficial name changes take place quickly if not immediately in official government sources. Adoption may be slower among the media in India and abroad, and among Indian authors.\n\n\nNotable city names that were officially changed by legislation after independence include:\n\nFor others, by state order, see list of renamed Indian cities and states.\nTown names that derive from ancient names:\n\nSeveral other changes have been proposed for states and towns.\n\n\n\nIndia has various local languages. Even (Romanised) English spellings in long and wide use often vary depending upon which government department or agency uses them. To the point, a few examples are Quilandy vs. Koyilandy, Canannore vs. Kannur, and Rangiya vs. Rangia. Different departments of the government may have used official spellings in use at the time, while locations associated with Indian railways mostly maintained British-era spellings. The confusion inherent in such variations has often resulted in serious consequences like people having two \"different\" addresses (theoretically designating the same place) in their official records leading to legal disputes, or one house having residents of different house addresses due to differing place names. Many people argue that such confusion can lead to indeterminate and/or unintended consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7892788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7892788", "title": "Sri Lankan place name etymology", "text": "Sri Lankan place name etymology\n\nSri Lankan place name etymology is characterized by the linguistic and ethnic diversity of the island of Sri Lanka through the ages and the position of the country in the centre of ancient and medieval sea trade routes. While typical Sri Lankan placenames of Sinhalese origin vastly dominate, toponyms which stem from Tamil, Dutch, English, Portuguese and Arabic also exist. In the past, the many composite or hybrid place names and the juxtaposition of Sinhala and Tamil placenames reflected the coexistence of people of both language groups. Today, however, toponyms and their etymologies are a source of heated political debate in the country as part of the political struggles between the majority Sinhalese and minority Sri Lankan Tamils.\n\nThe morphological structure of Sri Lankan place names by and large depends on the language. Sinhala and Tamil favour transparent compounds involving geological features combined with an animal or plant, while the European languages are more person centered and derive place names from saints or nobility or army.\n\nPlace names of Sinhala origin, have a typical X+Y structure, where Y is a geographical feature such as\n\"mountain\", \"river\" or \"village\"\nand X is a qualifier, like an animal or plant often found at that place, or otherwise associated with it. Examples for this are\n\n\nCommonly used trees in village names are \"pol\" (coconut) and \"Kitul\" (palm), among others.\n\nThe X part can be complex as in\n\n\nThe X part can also refer to social concepts like caste. Examples for this are \"waduwa\" (carpenter), \"batta\" (lower caste settlement), \"ambataya\" (barber), \"aruwa\" (potter), \"goviya\" (farmer), \"bamuna\" (Brahmin) and \"Villiya\" (Rodiya).\n\nBesides the Y parts already mentioned, other commonly used land usage forms are \"Kumbura\" (paddy fieldds), \"Deniya\", \"watte\" (garden), \"pola\", \"gama\" (village), and \"Hena\" (cultivated lands). Grasslands were termed as \"talava\" and tree groves were termed \"golla\". Village tanks were called \"pokuna\" or \"katuwa\". Irrigation tanks were called \"wewa\". Canals from such lakes were called \"aala\". Flat lands were termed \"botha\". Ports were termed \"tota\". Names of flower gardens belonging to Buddhist establishments end with \"uyana\".\n\nPlace names of Tamil origin, like Sinhala origin, also have a typical X+Y structure.\nThe place names are simple and descriptive; they reflect criteria normal to early societies and are related to the concepts and outlooks of people of those times. The majority of the place names can be listed under caste and occupational, landforms, land classifications, coastal features, irrigation works, fields and farms, trees, animals, names of deities, personal names, old, new, big, small, good, settlement and village.\n\nThe X-part in Tamil place names is often one of the following: The commonly used trees are \"Vembu, Panai\" (palm) and \"Illupai\". Commonly used animals and birds are \"Anai\" (elephant), \"Puli\" (tiger), and \"Kuranku\" (monkey). Other notable classifications are deities such as \"Amman\", \"Andi\", \"Kali\" and \"Pillaiyar\".\nThe commonly used caste or ethnic titles in Tamil are \"Chetty, Vannan\" and \"Demala\".\n\nAs for the Y-part, the commonly used landforms \"Mulai or Mulla\" (corner), \"Malai or Male\" (mountain), \"Aru\" (creek), \"Kuda\" (bay) \"Manal\" (sandy place), \"Kuli\" (depression), \"Tivu\" (island), \"Pallam\" (depression) and \"Ur\" or \"uruwa\" (village). Land classification are \"Tottam\" (garden), \"Kudal\" (bay), \"Puval, Kadu\" (forest), \"Munai\" or \"Mune\" (front), \"Karai\" (coast) and \"Turai\" or \"Ture\" (port). Irrigation and agriculture classifications are \"Kulam\" or \"Kulama\" (tank), reflecting the most common village name endings in Anuradhapura and Puttalam districts, \"Kinaru\" (well), \"Kani\" (allotment), \"Vayal\" (paddy field), \"Vaikkal\" (canal) and \"Eri\" (tank).\n\nThe Portuguese, who came to the island in 1505 and left in 1658, often gave names of Saints to whom the churches in the vicinity were dedicated. \"San Sebastian Hill\" and \"St. Joseph's Road\" are examples of these and \"Milagiriya\" had the church of Our Lady of Miracles (\"milagre\" in Portuguese).\n\nA name like \"Grand Pass\", a northern suburb of Colombo, is the English rendering of \"Grande Passo\", the name of a ferry established by the Portuguese, to cross the Kelani River.\n\nPoint Pedro and Mount Pedro are also place names with the name of a Portuguese person as a component, although they might have been coined by the British.\n\nThe Portuguese language furthermore was an important step stone for the English terms used today, the British would often use Portuguese names and adapt them, rather than taking the original form. An example for this is Batticaloa, and Ceylon itself.\n\nThe Dutch rule the maritime provinces from 1658-1796. Amongst their legacy place names of Dutch origin although not many are still significant. For example, \"Hulftsdorp\" which is Dutch for 'Hulft's Village' and named after the Dutch general Gerard Pietersz. Hulft.\n\nAmong the other place-names in Colombo which are of Dutch origin may be included \"Bloemendahl\" (Vale of Flowers) and \"Wolvendahl\" (Vale of Wolves). The latter was known as 'Guadelupe' by the Portuguese, which the Dutch took to mean 'Agua de lupe' which they translated accordingly. It is still known as 'aadelippu' in Sinhala and Tamil.\n\nThe \"Beira lake\" in Colombo probably takes its name from De Beer who is believed to have been an engineer in charge of the Dutch water defenses. A\ngranite plaque inscribed with the words 'De Beer 1700' recovered from an old Dutch sluice which controlled the flow of water from the lake has altered the hitherto accepted view that the lake takes its name from the Portuguese \"beira\" meaning 'bank or edge (of a lake)'.\n\nThe 'Maliban' biscuit brand gets its name from the Maliban Hotel, which AG Hinni Appuhamy started at Maliban St, Pettah (now AG Hinniappuhamy Mawatha) - originally Maliebaan Straat, named for Maliebaan, the Pall Mall alley in Utrecht. Leyn Baan Street in Galle is from 'lijnbaan', meaning 'rope walk' or 'ropery'.\n\nThe Dutch also christened the islands of Jaffna in remembrance of Dutch towns, such as \"Hoorn, Delft, Leiden, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Middelburg and Enkhuizen\", but these names (with the exception of Delft) have all but disappeared and have been replaced by their local Tamil names.\n\nThe British who followed the Dutch left many place names within the capital Colombo city, like streets, squares and quarters, but their influence on larger geographical features like towns is limited. Within Colombo, many of the place names have a British royal connotation, such as \"Queen's Street, Prince Street, Duke Street\". The quarters Fort, Cinnamon Gardens, Slave Island and Mount Lavinia carry English names, next to the native ones.\n\nOutside of Colombo, English influence can be found in the tea planting region with the towns of Hatton and Dalhousie, and several estates such as \"Devon\",\"Kenilworth\", \"Middleton\", \"Somerset\", \"Usk Valley\" and \"Wavenden\". Scots English is also widely represented by place names such as \"Blinkbonnie\", \"Holyrood\", \"Lauderdale\", \"Melfort\" and \"Sutherland\".\n\nHorton Plains were named for Sir Robert John Wilmot-Horton, the Governor of Ceylon, who adopted the surname of his wife, Anne Beatrix Horton. Horton Place in Colombo is also named for him.\n\nScottish planters named many of the areas they planted after Gaelic place names from Scotland. Examples are Aberdeen, Balmoral, Clyde, Culloden, Frotoft, Kinross, Perth and Strathspey.\n\nJa-Ela, Javanese Canal\n\nProbably the only American Indian place name in Sri Lanka is Rappahannock, in Uda Pussellawa. It comes from the Rappahannock River in Virginia, itself originating from an Algonquian word, lappihanne (also recorded as toppehannock), meaning \"river of quick, rising water\" or \"where the tide ebbs and flows,\" the name used by the local native population, the Rappahannock tribe.\n\nThe common word \"Gala\" for stones found in Sinhalese is considered to be a borrowing from indigenous Vedda language. It is used in Toponyms found throughout the island.\n\nPlace names in Arabic also exist throughout scattered pockets in Sri Lanka where substantial populations of Sri Lankan Moors reside. According to the location Arabic place names are often mixed with Sinhala or Tamil morphological naming conventions. For example, the town of Katthankudy in Eastern Sri Lanka is thought to be named after an Arab settler named \"Al Qahtan\".\n\n\nArchaeologist Paranavithana suggests that the original name was \"Javapatuna\", where 'Java' alludes to the presence of Javaka people. The Portuguese historian De Queyroz refers to it at 'Jafanapataõ', which he says is said by some to be a corrupted form of 'Jafana-en-Putalam', or \"Town of the Lord Jafana\", and by others to be derived from 'Jafana-Patanaõture' meaning \"long harbour\".\nAkkaraipattumeaning - Ten Cities after the River.\n\n\nAs already stated above, European place names are found mainly in the big towns which used to be colonial centers. On the countryside, there is close to no European toponymy and the indigenous languages are dominant.\n\nGiven the very similar processes of place name formation in Sinhala and Tamil explicated above, it is not always easy to establish the original language of a place name, because loan translations are common in both directions. For such an alleged example of loan translation, see the case of Trincomalee above. Additionally, some place names draw on Sanskrit or Pali roots, which are then adapted to Sinhala and Tamil phonology in different ways. These intricacies must be taken into account when evaluating claims that a certain area was predominantly inhabited by one group or the other at a certain point in time.\n\nTaking a synchronic point of view, Sinhala place names are more common in the Sinhala speaking areas in the South, whereas Tamil place names are more common in the Tamil speaking areas in the North and East. On a diachronic point of view, things are more complicated, and both Sinhala settlements in the North and Tamil settlements in the South have been claimed to have been more common in the past. The motivation behind such analyses is not always scientific; political goals also play a role in claiming a certain area for a certain language group, see the next section for more discussion of this. The following statements have to be interpreted with this caveat in mind.\n\nSinhalese place names are found throughout the island. As discussed by Sri Lankan historians such as Paul E Peiris, Karthigesu Indrapala and others, pre-Christian stone inscriptions of Sri Lanka point to the extensive use of the Sinhala language in local administration. Much of the information for tracing the old place names comes from etymology, written texts, many stone inscriptions which are in Sinhala and dating back to pre-Christian times, as well as the more recent colonial records.\n\nDutch and British records show that the language of the inhabitants of Vanni in the 17th and 18th centuries were Tamil, while none of them considered Tamils to be native to the island, and state that the Tamils had come from the opposite coast and displaced the Sinhalese.\nAccording to M. Chelvadurai(a Tamil) only Tamil words were used for natural and human-made features in the Vanni region with no trace of Sinhalese words, while Vanni itself is a Sinhala word. According to Professor K. Kularatnam, when analyzing the regional distribution of place names in Sri Lanka, one not only comes across Tamil names in areas which are Sinhala-speaking, and vice versa, but also composite or hybrid place names which are part Sinhalese and part Tamil in composition, as well as Sinhalese and Tamil place names juxtaposed within small areas.\n\nMost hybrid place names are found in the traditionally Sinhalese North Western and North Central provinces, as well as the traditionally Tamil Northern and Eastern provinces.\n\nSigiri graffiti verses referring to the Jaffna peninsula and written c. 8th century, contain references to \"Vaeligama\", \nKularatnam concluded from the hybrid place names that the traditionally Sinhalese North Central and North Western Provinces, as well as the coastal tracts as far as south as Colombo, were inhabited by Tamil-speaking people in the past. In addition, there have been also at least small segments elsewhere in the island. The many composite or hybrid place names and the juxtaposition of Sinhala and Tamil place names indicated the peaceful coexistence of people of both language groups.\n\nPlace names are a source of controversy in Sri Lankan politics. According to Nissan & Stirrat, the Sri Lankan Civil War is an outcome of how modern ethnic identities have been made and re-made since the colonial period, with the political struggle between minority Sri Lankan Tamils and the Sinhala-dominant government accompanied by rhetorical wars over archeological sites and place name etymologies, and the political use of the national past.\nThey further note that in the currently Tamil-dominant Northern Province there are place names with Sinhalese etymologies, which is used by the Sinhala dominant government to claim the territory, whereas Tamils using Tamil place names in rationally Sinhala areas point to their antiquity in the island. There is a movement in Sri Lanka that seeks to use original Sinhala names throughout the country.\n\nIn the 1920s, two historical descriptions of Jaffna were published, \"Ancient Jaffna\" by C. Rasanayagam, and \"A Critical History of Jaffna\" by Swamy Gnanaprakasar. A main claim of these books was that the North and East were hereditary possessions of the Tamils.Upon the establishment of the University of Ceylon under the Indian historian H. C. Ray, and the archeologist S. Paranavithana, these claims were re-examined by Sinhalese academics. An issue of the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society in 1961, examined the findings of Rasanaygam et al. and gave different interpretations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4984079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4984079", "title": "Statistical Accounts of Scotland", "text": "Statistical Accounts of Scotland\n\nThe Statistical Accounts of Scotland are a series of documentary publications, related in subject matter though published at different times, covering life in Scotland in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe \"Old (or First) Statistical Account of Scotland\" was published between 1791 and 1799 by Sir John Sinclair of Ulbster. The \"New (or Second) Statistical Account of Scotland\" published under the auspices of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland between 1834 and 1845. These first two Statistical Accounts of Scotland are among the finest European contemporary records of life during the agricultural and industrial revolutions.\n\nA \"Third Statistical Account of Scotland\" was published between 1951 and 1992.\n\n \nAttempts at getting an accurate picture of the geography, people and economy of Scotland had been attempted in the 1620s and 1630s, using the network of about 900 ministers of the established Church of Scotland. The time and resources involved, not to mention the troubled times of the Civil Wars, led to limited results.\n\nHowever, the Geographer Royal for Scotland, Sir Robert Sibbald took this forward between 1684 and the early 1690s. Sir Robert circulated some \"General Queries\" to parish ministers, but again this was the unsettled time of the Glorious Revolution and, though progress was made, the results provided a very incomplete picture of the nation.\n\nThe General Assembly proposed a \"Geographical Description of Scotland\" and took some action on this between 1720 and 1744, again during troubled times for the country, latterly involving the Jacobite rebellion under Bonnie Prince Charlie. Nonetheless, during 1743, the Moderator of the General Assembly, the Rev Robert Wallace organised the distribution of questionnaires, aimed at finding out how to devise a scheme for the support of the widows and orphans of clergy. This work helped to develop actuarial methods, and explains the involvement of a society for ministers’ widows and orphans in later work.\n\nThe Rev Alexander Webster produced a population census of Scotland in 1755, based to some extent on Wallace's work.\n\nIn 1767, Sir James Denham-Steuart suggested a national survey in his \"Enquiry into the principles of Œconomy\" and this was taken up in 1781 by David Erskine, Earl of Buchan. However, by the time this came to fruition in 1792, it had been overtaken by the work of Sir John Sinclair of Ulbster.\n\nSir John Sinclair of Ulbster had studied German state surveys and wished to use what he called for the first time these \"statistical\" methods to measure the quantum of happiness that existed in the nation and find ways of improving this. In this he was a remarkable example of Enlightenment idealism at work. He stressed the empirical ideal of that age by lauding its anxious attention to the facts and he set about completing the work left unachieved by the previous attempt mentioned above. The results are crucial to an understanding of Scotland on the eve of both the Industrial Revolution and the French Revolution.\n\nIn 1790, Sir John sent structured questionnaires to over 900 parish ministers, covering the whole country. This contained 160 questions in 4 sections, namely\n\n\nThere were follow up questions in Appendices – six new questions in 1790 and four more in 1791. The general response was excellent, though the length and quality of submissions varied greatly, as can be seen by comparing those for two East Lothian parishes: Whittingehame (19 pages with detailed tables) and Stenton (2 pages of minimal information). Since the survey was not complete, Sir John sent out \"Statistical Missionaries\" in 1796 . The project was finished by June 1799, though much had already been published, and Sir John was able to lay before the General Assembly a detailed portrait of the nation. Taken as a whole, the reports are of inestimable historical value. Some are excellently written by ministers who were themselves meticulous Enlightenment scholars (see for example the response by the \"Rev Dr James Meek\" for the Parish of Cambuslang in Lanarkshire).\n\nThe finished volumes were published in Edinburgh by William Creech.\n\nAs mentioned above, early attempts at producing an accurate statistical account of Scotland were related to schemes to support the widows and orphans of the clergy. In 1832 the \"Committee for the Society for the Sons and Daughters of the Clergy\", with the blessing of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, took Sir John's work further. It was to be more modern (including maps for each county) and was to draw upon the specialist knowledge of local doctors and schoolmasters. It very self-consciously set out not to produce a new statistical account, but a statistical account of a new country – one that the revolutions mentioned above had changed rapidly. It was, however, very much the child of the \"Old Statistical Account\". Indeed, the Rev Dr John Robertson, the Minister responsible for of the new account for Cambuslang, was the former assistant to the writer of the old account.\n\nFollowing a grant of some £8,000 from the Nuffield Foundation in 1947, the Third Statistical Account was initiated, and followed a similar parish format to the earlier accounts. The first volume, covering Ayrshire, was published in 1951. Ultimately it was more rigorous and wide-ranging than either of its predecessors, covering industry, transport, culture and demographics. Volume editors ensured a more generic approach than before, but even so the spirit of the originals was retained, even if idiosyncrasies remained.\n\nThe scale of the project, ongoing difficulties with funding and finding publishers (which included Collins and Oliver & Boyd) meant that the project took over forty years to complete, with a gap of more than a decade following the publication of \"Edinburgh\" in 1966. It was not until 1992 that the last volume, \"The County of Roxburgh\", was published, under the auspices of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations. Another consequence of this delay was that the later volumes covered administrative divisions which no longer existed. Several parish accounts had to be revised or rewritten due to the lapse of time between the fieldwork and publication. One account, the parish of Livingston in West Lothian, was revised twice and all three versions appear in the published volume. The account for the parish of Currie went missing by the time the Midlothian volume was put together and the book appears without it.\n\nAlthough the project was more secular than before, sections of the accounts continued to focus on religious life, and several of the parish accounts were still written by Church of Scotland ministers. The tone of the comments in the 'Way of Life' often appear surprisingly judgmental to a modern reader, and there can be ill-concealed exasperation with the behaviour of working-class parishioners. For example, again and again, spending on football pools is denounced, as are other ways of spending money and leisure time. Judgmentalism turns to plain insult in remarks like 'The people of Dura Den can be extremely ignorant' (Parish of Kemback, Fife) and 'Singing in the schools and the church is painful to an educated ear' (Parish of Inch, Wigtownshire).\n\n\"Note: each volume is entitled either County of... or City of...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7672872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7672872", "title": "Syrt", "text": "Syrt\n\nA syrt is a kind of an elevated landform in Russia and Central Asia.\n\nThe word means \"highland\", \"ridge\" or \"backbone\" in Turkic languages (\"sırt\") and is present in Turkic toponymy in the mentioned areas: in Tien Shan, Pamirs, South Urals, such as Obshchiy Syrt by Urals, Uzun-Syrt (\"Long back\") plateau by Koktebel in Crimea.\n\nIt is a denudational upland or elevated flatland, a kind of dissected plateau. Syrts may be separated from each other by higher ridges. At the same time, syrts may serve as water divides between drainage basins for larger rivers.\n\nThe term should not to be confused with the Latin term \"syrtis\" and the derived term \"syrt\" for sandy shores or quicksand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2269821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269821", "title": "Tobler's first law of geography", "text": "Tobler's first law of geography\n\nThe First Law of Geography, according to Waldo Tobler, is \"everything is related to everything else, but near things are more related than distant things.\" This first law is the foundation of the fundamental concepts of spatial dependence and spatial autocorrelation and is utilized specifically for the inverse distance weighting method for spatial interpolation and to support the regionalized variable theory for kriging.\n\nTobler first presented his seminal idea during a meeting of the International Geographical Union's Commission on Qualitative Methods held in 1969 and later published by him in 1970. Though simple in its presentation, this idea is profound. Without it, \"the full range of conditions anywhere on the Earth's surface could in principle be found packed within any small area. There would be no regions of approximately homogeneous conditions to be described by giving attributes to area objects. Topographic surfaces would vary chaotically, with slopes that were everywhere infinite, and the contours of such surfaces would be infinitely dense and contorted. Spatial analysis, and indeed life itself, would be impossible.\"\n\nLess well known is his second law, which complements the first: \"The phenomenon external to an area of interest affects what goes on inside\".\n\nThe theory is based upon the concept of the friction of distance \"where distance itself hinders interaction between places. The farther two places are apart, the greater the hindrance\", or cost. For example, one is less likely to travel across town to purchase a sandwich than walk to the corner store for the same sandwich. In this example hindrance, or cost, can readily be counted in time and transportation costs which are added to the price of the purchase and thus result in high levels of friction. The friction of distance and the increase in cost combine causing the distance decay effect.\n"}
{"id": "32175592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32175592", "title": "William Soone", "text": "William Soone\n\nWilliam Soone or Zoone (fl. 1540–1575) was an English jurist and cartographer.\n\nSoone was educated at Cambridge University, where he matriculated at Michaelhouse in 1544. He graduated B.A. 1547, and proceeded M.A. at some date after 1549. He became doctor of civil and canon laws, probably at some university on the continent. The bursars' accounts of Caius College show that he was resident at Gonville Hall, probably as a fellow, from 1548 to 1555. In 1561 he became regius professor of civil law, and in June of that year was admitted fellow of Trinity Hall.\n\nHe would not conform to the Church of England, and, leaving Cambridge, went abroad. His successor in the professorship, William Clerke, was appointed in 1563. Soone is said to have resided at Paris, Dol, Freiburg, and Padua, and to have been a professor of law for some time at Leuven. From Leuven he went, most likely, to Antwerp, where he acted as assistant to Abraham Ortelius.\n\nIn 1572 he was at Cologne. He then passed to Rome, and had some papal appointment.\n\nIn Cologne he published ‘Gulielmi Sooni Vantesdeni Auditor sive Pomponius Mela disputator de Situ Orbis’. Part of this rare book, the ‘Novi incolæ orbis terrarum,’ is copied from that of Arnold Mylius and published by Ortelius in the 1570 edition of the ‘Theatrum.’ Accordingly Ortelius complained, and Soone offered explanations dated from Cologne, 31 August 1572.\n\nSoone also copied the map of Cambridge which Richard Lyne had drawn for John Caius's ‘History of the University’ (1574), and published his copy in Georg Braun and Hogenberg's ‘Civitates Orbis terrarum’ (1575?). With this map went a description of the university.\n\n"}
{"id": "22774956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22774956", "title": "World Ocean Conference", "text": "World Ocean Conference\n\nThe World Ocean Conference 2009 (WOC) is an international conference to develop a common understanding and firm commitment to address the adverse impact of climate change on the state of the world’s oceans, and increase understanding on the role of the oceans as ‘climate moderator’. This conference includes diplomats and heads of state from a number of countries. It took place in May 2009 in Manado, Indonesia. Its topic is the threat to various nations from rising oceans due to global warming.\n\nThe conference was scheduled to be held from 11 - 14 May, included hundreds of officials and experts from over 74 countries. It is seen as a prelude to talks in December 2009 regarding a successor agreement to the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), as the instrument that sets out the legal framework within which all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and its Kyoto Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, 1972, and its 1996 Protocol. Recognises that oceans and coasts provide valuable resources and services to support human populations, particularly coastal communities that heavily depend on them. Sustainable use of marine living resources will enhance global food security and reduce poverty for present and future generations. The declaration will be put forward to the UN FCCC and hopefully adopted at the COP 15 in Copenhagen at the end of the year.\n\nClimate change issues that could potentially result on inter alia. Degradation of marine environment, in particular the loss of marine diversity, threatened marine ecosystems by land-based and sea-based pollution, alien invasive species, unsustainable use of marine and coastal resources, physical alteration, poor land-use planning, and socio-economic pressures, equally concerned over marine ecosystems and living resources being affected by sea level rise, increased water temperature, ocean acidification, changing weather patterns, and other variations that may result from climate change, and how these alterations may aggravate the existing pressures of marine environmental degradation and increase risks to global food security, economic prosperity, and the well-being of human populations.\n\nRealizing the detrimental effects and importance of climate change, The WOC agreed to discuss the commitments on how to increase the role ocean in reducing the impact of climate change. The WOC have three main interests of states:\n\nThe main purpose of the WOC 2009 is to adoption of Manado Ocean Declaration (MOD). The declaration consists of 14 core opening paragraphs and 21 points of operative agreement. The contents of the declaration include the commitment to long-term conservation, management, and sustainable use of marine living resources, establish national strategies to sustainably manage marine and coastal ecosystems and enhance their resilience, reduce land- and sea-based pollution, and also to increase understanding and information exchange on coasts, oceans and climate change, particularly in developing countries.\n\nDespite criticism the MOD was not strong enough to push the international community to help developing nations deal with the impacts of climate change, Indonesian Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Minister Freddy Numberi, chairman of the conference, said the WOC had put oceans center stage in world attention and raised awareness of the importance of oceans in climate change. But representatives from both developed and developing countries expressed satisfaction with the results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18919390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919390", "title": "Yenikənd, Khojavend", "text": "Yenikənd, Khojavend\n\nYenikənd () (also Norşen) is a village in the Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan. The village's name means \"new village\" in both Armenian and Azerbaijani.\n"}
