{"id": "27678944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27678944", "title": "2009 student protests in Croatia", "text": "2009 student protests in Croatia\n\nStudent protests in Croatia 2009 began at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at the University of Zagreb. On Monday, 20 April 2009, the independent students' initiative for the right to free education started an occupation of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Zagreb, Croatia. The occupation lasted for 35 days, until 24 May, when the students voted to suspend the occupation. The students were protesting the Croatian government's plans to reduce public funding for higher education, which had been provided free until recently.\n\nThe occupation in Zagreb spread next day to the University of Zadar (where the entire university was blocked) and then to other cities in the country, including Split, Pula, Rijeka and Osijek. During those 35 days, around 20 faculties and universities in eight Croatian cities were occupied at some point.\n\nThe students who organized the occupation demanded the right to free education for all and the elimination of all tuition fees, at all levels of higher education: undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate. During the occupation, everyone was free to enter and leave the faculty buildings, but regular classes were not held. Instead, students organized an alternative educational program, which consisted of lectures, public discussions, workshops, movie screenings and other events. Everyone was free to attend these happenings, whether they were students or not. Only the regular classes were blocked – the administration, the library, the bookshop and other facilities within the faculty building were allowed to function as usual.\n\nThe central organ of student decision making at the occupied faculty called plenum was set up. All decisions were made in a direct democratic manner, including whether the student occupation of the faculty should be continued or ended. The plenum was an assembly of all interested students and other citizens and everyone had the right to speak and vote. All decisions were made by the majority of all present participants.\n\nThe initial occupation in Zagreb ended soon after the university administration announced that sanctions would be imposed if the action were not ended.\n\nOn 23 November the students again occupied the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Zagreb. After nearly two weeks, the plenum, voted to end the occupation on 4 December.\n\nThey have received letters of support from individuals and organizations, both from Croatia and from abroad. Among those who have expressed support for their cause were Noam Chomsky, Judith Butler and Slavoj Žižek.\n\nThe students of Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Zagreb wrote a manual called \"The Occupation Cookbook\" in which they described the functioning of their faculty during the occupation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40936943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40936943", "title": "2013 UK higher education strike", "text": "2013 UK higher education strike\n\nThe 2013 UK higher education strike was industrial action which took place on 31 October 2013. It was jointly co-ordinated by the UCU, Unite, and UNISON trade unions across the United Kingdom. University staff went on strike in response to a real-terms pay cut of 13% since 2008. The strike started at midnight with the mass walk-out of security guards from the Glasgow Caledonian University. Classes were cancelled at every Scottish university except the University of the Highlands and Islands.\n"}
{"id": "57401725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57401725", "title": "Academies Financial Handbook", "text": "Academies Financial Handbook\n\nAcademies Financial Handbook is a handbook issued by Education and Skills Funding Agency in England that describes financial requirements for academy trusts. It was first published 1 July 2016 and last updated 27 July 2017. \n\nAcademy schools are state-funded schools in England which are directly funded by the Department for Education and independent of local authority control. The terms of the arrangements are set out in individual Academy Funding Agreements.\nMost academies are secondary schools (and most secondary schools are academies). However, slightly more than 25% of primary schools (4363 as at December 2017). There are no academies in Wales or Scotland where education has been devolved\n\nAcademies are self-governing non-profit charitable trusts and may receive additional support from personal or corporate sponsors, either financially or in kind.\n\nThe Education Funding Agency monitors financial management and governance of academies. In March 2016 the Perry Beeches The Academy Trust, a multi-academy trust, was found to have deleted financial records for £2.5 million of free school meal funding, and that the chief executive was being paid by sub-contractors as well as by the trust. Its schools are likely to be taken over by a new trust. In August 2016, the former principal and founder of Kings Science Academy, the former finance director, and a former teacher who was the founder's sister were found guilty of defrauding public funds of £150,000.\n\nIn October 2017, the Wakefield City Academies Trust collapsed, and \"The Observer\" reported that \"Wakefield City Academies Trust now stands accused of 'asset stripping” after it transferred millions of pounds of the schools’ savings to its own accounts before collapsing. On 8 September it released a statement announcing it would divest itself of its 21 schools as it could not undertake the ´rapid improvement our academies need' \". The Academies Financial Handbook describes the correct way of managing public assets. 'Compliance with the handbook is a condition of each trust’s funding agreement'.\n\nThe Academies Financial Handbook sets out the financial management, control and reporting requirements that apply to all academy trusts. It describes a financial framework for trusts that focuses on principles rather than detailed guidance and reflects their accountability to Parliament and to the public.\n\nIt is sixty sides long, and is divided into 4 sections with a foreword and appendices.\n\n\nSome governing bodies have difficulty with the document. The Commons public accounts committee concluded that “too often academy trusts are falling short” of the “highest standards of governance, accountability and financial management” and that the Department for Education is often “too slow to react”. In May 2018, the Guardian highlighted the failings in one multi-academy trust comprising four primary schools. The schools serving 2000 pupils were awarding the head a salary in excess of £211,082 which had been raised by 10% from the year before. She had taken £6 250 to fund a fact finding mission to the far east. In 2014, £26,000 had been spent on refurbishing the heads office.Four of her staff had been issued with £1 250 laptops while the school had been running an in-year deficit of almost £1 000 000. “Discussions with both the head and the acting chair of the board demonstrated a poor understanding of the current financial situation of the trust.” Also criticised was the way that large contracts for consultancy and advertising were taken out without following the tender procedure, and invoices could be produced.\n"}
{"id": "41201395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41201395", "title": "Article processing charge", "text": "Article processing charge\n\nAn article processing charge (APC), also known as a publication fee, is a fee which is sometimes charged to authors to make a work available open access in either an open access journal or hybrid journal. This fee is usually paid by an author's institution or research funder rather than by the author themselves. Some publishers waive the fee in cases of hardship. An article processing charge does not guarantee that the author retains copyright to the work, or that it will be made available under a Creative Commons license.\n\nJournals use a variety of ways to generate the income required to cover publishing costs (including editorial costs, any costs of administering the peer review system), such as subsidies from institutions and subscriptions. A majority of open access journals do not charge article processing charges, but a significant and growing number of them do. They are the most common funding method for professionally published open access articles.\n\nAPC fees applied to academic research are usually expensive, effectively limiting open access circulation among the less affluent institutions, scholars, and students. \n\nAPC model of open access, among other controversies — is part of the wider and increasing global Open Access OA's ethics debate (see for example Kember, S., 2014, 'Opening Out from Open Access: Writing and Publishing in Response to Neoliberalism'; Kember, S. 2016, 'How Open is Open Access?'; Page, B. 2018, 'Angry Publishers Debate OA monographs at IPG'). \n\nDifferent academic publishers have widely varying levels of fees, from under $100 to over $3000. High fees are sometimes charged by traditional publishers in order to publish in a hybrid open access journal, which make an individual article in a subscription journal open access. The average APC for hybrid journals has been calculated to be almost twice as high as APCs from full open access publishers. Journals with high impact factors from major publishers tend to have the highest APCs. Many open access publishers, such as PLOS, waive their APCs for those who cannot afford to pay them.\n\nOpen access articles often have a surcharge compared to a closed-access APC; for example the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" regularly charges $1700 per article, with a surcharge of $1350 for open-access. Similarly, AGU's \"Journal of Geophysical Research\" charges $1000 for closed-access and $3500 for open-access.\n\nEven when publishers do not charge standard fees, excess or overlength fees might still apply after a certain number of pages or publication units is exceeded; additional fees might exist for color figures, primarily for print journals that are not online-only.\n\nWhile publication charges occur upon article acceptance, article submission fees are charged prior to the start of peer review; they are not uncommon among journals in some fields, e.g., finance and economics.\nPage charge may refer to either publication or submission fees.\n\nThe \"article processing charges\" which are often used for open access journals shift the burden of payment from readers to authors (or their funders), which creates a new set of concerns. One concern is that if a publisher makes a profit from accepting papers, it has an incentive to accept anything submitted, rather than selecting and rejecting articles based on quality. This could be remedied, however, by charging for the peer-review rather than acceptance. Another concern is that institutional budgets may need to be adjusted in order to provide funding for the article processing charges required to publish in many open access journals (e.g. those published by BioMed Central). It has been argued that this may reduce the ability to publish research results due to lack of sufficient funds, leading to some research not becoming a part of the public record.\n\nUnless discounts are available to authors from countries with low incomes or external funding is provided to cover the cost, article processing charges could exclude authors from developing countries or less well-funded research fields from publishing in open access journals. However, under the traditional model, the prohibitive costs of some non-open access journal subscriptions already place a heavy burden on the research community; and if green open access self-archiving eventually makes subscriptions unsustainable, the cancelled subscription savings can pay the gold open access publishing costs without the need to divert extra money from research. Moreover, many open access publishers offer discounts or publishing fee waivers to authors from developing countries or those suffering financial hardship. Self-archiving of non-open access publications provides a low cost alternative model.\n\nAnother concern is the redirection of money by major funding agencies such as the National Institutes of Health and the Wellcome Trust from the direct support of research to the support of open access publication. Robert Terry, Senior Policy Advisor at the Wellcome Trust, has said that he feels that 1–2% of their research budget will change from the creation of knowledge to the dissemination of knowledge.\n\nResearch institutions could cover the cost of open access by converting to an open access journal cost-recovery model, with the institutions' annual tool access subscription savings being available to cover annual open access publication costs. A 2017 study by the Max Planck Society the annual turnovers of academic publishers amount to approximately EUR 7.6 billion. It is argued that this money comes predominantly from publicly funded scientific libraries as they purchase subscriptions or licenses in order to provide access to scientific journals for their members. The study was presented by the Max Planck Digital Library and found that subscription budgets would be sufficient to fund the open access publication charges.\n"}
{"id": "7853674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7853674", "title": "Assessment for learning", "text": "Assessment for learning\n\nIn classrooms where assessment for learning is practised, students are encouraged to be more active in their learning and associated assessment. The ultimate purpose of assessment for learning is to create self-regulated learners who can leave school able and confident to continue learning throughout their lives. Teachers need to know at the outset of a unit of study where their students are in terms of their learning and then continually check on how they are progressing through strengthening the feedback they get from their learners. Students are guided on what they are expected to learn and what quality work looks like. The teacher will work with the student to understand and identify any gaps or misconceptions (initial/diagnostic assessment). As the unit progresses, the teacher and student work together to assess the student's knowledge, what she or he needs to learn to improve and extend this knowledge, and how the student can best get to that point (formative assessment). Assessment for learning occurs at all stages of the learning process.\n\nResearchers whose work has informed much of this assessment reform include Ken O'Connor, Grant Wiggins, Jay McTighe, Richard Stiggins, Paul Black, Dylan Wiliam, Chris Harrison, Bethan Marshall, Gordon Stobart, Caroline Gipps, Joanna Goodman, Thomas Guskey, Damian Cooper, Philippe Perrenoud, Royce Sadler, Bronwen Cowie, Margaret Heritage and Ronán Howe.\n\nIn past decades, teachers would design a unit of study that would typically include objectives, teaching strategies, and resources. The student's mark on this test or exam was taken as the indicator of his or her understanding of the topic. In 1998, Black & Wiliam produced a review that highlighted that students who learn in a formative way achieve significantly better than matched control groups receiving normal teaching. Their seminal work developed into several important research projects on Assessment for Learning by the King's College team including Kings-Medway-Oxfordshire Formative Assessment Project (KMOFAP), Assessment is For learning (Scotland), Jersey-Actioning-Formative assessment (Channel Islands), and smaller projects in England, Wales, Peru, and the USA.\n\nA complex assessment is the one that requires a rubric and an expert examiner. Example items for complex assessment include thesis, funding proposal, etc.\ndiscussed some common general criteria for FYP thesis and their ambiguity regarding use, meaning and application. Woolf (2004)\nmore specifically stated on the FYP assessment criterion weighting:‘The departments are as silent on the weightings that they apply to their criteria as they are on the\nnumber of criteria that contribute to a grade’. A more serious concern was raised by Shay (2004) who argued that the FYP assessment for engineering and social sciences is ‘a socially situated\ninterpretive act’, implying that many different alternative interpretations and grades are possible for one assessment task. The problems with the FYP thesis assessment have thus received much\nattention over the decades since the assessment difficulty was discussed by Black (1975).\n\nThere are a number of assessment terms that will appear in any discussion of assessment. Listed below are common interpretations of some of these terms:\n\nAssessment\nA working definition of Assessment for learning from a widely cited article contends:\n\n\"the term 'assessment' refers to all those activities undertaken,,\nby teachers, and by their students in assessing themselves, which\nprovide information to be used as feedback to modify the teaching and learning activities in which they are engaged.\n\nSince this seminal article, educators have differentiated assessment according to its purpose:\n\nAssessment for learning\n\n\nAssessment as learning\n\nAssessment of learning\n\nEvaluation\n\nDiagnostic assessment (now referred to more often as \"pre-assessment\")\n\nFormative assessment\n\nSummative assessment\n\nAmong the most comprehensive listing of principles of assessment for learning are those written by the QCA (Qualifications and Curriculum Authority). The authority, which is sponsored by England's Department for Children, Schools and Families, is responsible for national curriculum, assessment, and examinations. Their principal focus is on crucial aspects of assessment for learning, including how such assessment should be seen as central to classroom practice, and that all teachers should regard assessment for learning as a key professional skill.\n\nThe UK Assessment Reform Group (1999) identifies \"The big 5 principles of assessment for learning\"\n\n\nThe purpose of an Assessment for Learning (AFL) task is to provide feedback to both the teacher and learner regarding the learner's progress towards achieving the learning objective(s). This feedback should be used by the teacher to revise and develop further instruction. An effective AFL method is to use a performance task coupled with a rubric. This type of assessment is fundamental in illustrating how and why such principles need to be adhered to.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44438811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44438811", "title": "Association for Psychosocial Studies", "text": "Association for Psychosocial Studies\n\nThe Association for Psychosocial Studies (APS), is a learned society in the United Kingdom dedicated to promoting the academic discipline of psychosocial studies. The association runs an academic journal: the Journal of Psychosocial Studies. The Association for Psychosocial Studies was formed in 2013 in order to formalise and carry forward the work of developing Psychosocial Studies in the UK. The APS emerged from the Psychosocial Studies Network, which had organised annual conferences at the major university bases for Psychosocial Studies since 2008. The APS is a charitable trust and is recognised as a Learned Society by the Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nFormed in 2013, the Founding Members of the Association are: John Adlam, Phoebe Beedell, Tamara Bibby, Jo Brown, Rose Capdevila, Zoe Charalambous, Karen Ciclitira, Lita Crociani-Windland, Lynn Froggett, Stephen Frosh, Elizabeth Frost, Andy Fugard, Jason Glynos, Birgitta Haga Gripsrud, Rex Haigh, Ambrose Hogan, Paul Hoggett, Wendy Hollway, Shona Hunter, Rebecca Hutten, Luis Jiminez, David W. Jones, Warren Kinston, Helen Lucey, Jean McAvoy, James Martin, Claudia Megele, Yvonne Parry, Heather Price, Ellen Ramvi, Peter Redman, Barry Richards, Sasha Roseneil, Michael Rustin, Chris Scanlon, Gary Spencer-Humphrey, Paul Stenner, Jem Thomas, Isobel Urquhart, Julie Walsh, and Tom Wengraf.\n\n\nThe APS objectives are\n\na) the advancement of education and research in the field of Psychosocial Studies, and publication of the results of such research,\n\nb) the promotion of the field of Psychosocial Studies as an academic discipline and the dissemination of knowledge concerning Psychosocial Studies,\n\nc) the advancement of education for the public benefit in Psychosocial Studies across different disciplines and educational sectors,\n\nd) to contribute to the advancement of public health and well-being, particularly in relation to mental health.\n\nAccording to the Journal's publication policy, their stated intent is to be \"inclusive rather than exclusive\", and solicit \"work which pushes back - even crosses - the edges of traditional academic and practice boundaries\", and such non-mainstream viewpoints are \"particularly welcome\".\n"}
{"id": "9637960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9637960", "title": "Ben Bard", "text": "Ben Bard\n\nBen Bard (January 26, 1893 – May 17, 1974) was an American movie actor, stage actor, and acting teacher. With comedian Jack Pearl, Bard worked in a comedy duo in vaudeville. \n\nIn 1926, Bard, Pearl, and Sascha Beaumont appeared in a short film made in Lee DeForest's Phonofilm sound-on-film process. He had a small role in \"The Bat Whispers\" (1930). Later in the decade, he ran a leading Hollywood acting school, Ben Bard Drama.\n\nBard was recruited to be a leading man at Fox Film Corporation. However, he was typecast as a \"Suave Heavy\"—a smooth-talking, well-dressed fellow with a dark side. An example of this type is his portrayal of \"Mr. Brun\" in \"The Seventh Victim\" (1943). Also in 1943, Bard appeared in two other Val Lewton-produced horror films: \"The Leopard Man\", as Robles, the Police Chief, and \"The Ghost Ship\", as First Officer Bowns.\n\nBard became the head of the New Talent Department at Twentieth-Century-Fox in September 1956, eventually resigning in August 1959. He re-opened his school, Ben Bard Drama, in 1960.\n\n\nBard died in Los Angeles in 1974, aged 81. His resting place is with Ruth Roland in an unmarked grave at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California. He is survived by his two sons, Bryan Barak Bard, a video documentary artist, and Bartley Bard, a professional director and screenwriter. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26761020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26761020", "title": "British Families Education Service", "text": "British Families Education Service\n\nThe British Families Education Service (BFES) was an organisation set up by the British Government in 1946 to run schools for the children of British military and government personnel serving in West Germany.\n\nPrior to 1946, Army Education Corps was responsible for the training of teachers (Queen's Army Schoolmistresses) to teach soldiers' children at garrisons. With the end of World War II and the establishment of the British Army on the Rhine as part of the Allied occupation of Germany, personnel were allowed to bring their families over through \"Operation Union\". This presented a problem for the War Office as these children needed to attend school. BFES was established by the Foreign Office in cooperation with the War Office and Ministry of Education. The first school officially opened by the BFES was Prince Rupert School, then located at the coastal town of Wilhelmshaven. LEAs were asked to aid in the recruitment of teachers to the newly opened schools in Germany.\nTwo other boarding schools were open during the 1950s. One at Hamm, and another (King Alfred's School) at Plon in Northern Germany. This second school was originally a German naval cadet training centre. During the period 1957-1959, it housed some 700 pupils - half boys, half girls - providing wonderful facilities. At the end of the school year in 1959, it was formally handed back to the German Navy.\n\nOver the years, the BFES and its later incarnations opened schools at British Armed Forces bases around the world, such as in Hong Kong, Singapore, Cyprus, Malta, Gibraltar, Mauritius and Malaya.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, BFES became the Service Children's Education Authority (SCEA), an agency overseen by the British Army. In 1989 it came under a new administration and was renamed Service Children's Schools (SCS) before adopting its current name Service Children's Education (SCE).\n\n"}
{"id": "24082253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24082253", "title": "California Reading List", "text": "California Reading List\n\nThe California Reading List is a literature database designed to help pupils that undertook standardized testing identify age appropriate and challenging reading material. Each pupils recommended list is delivered as part of the results notification for the California Standardized Testing and Reporting(STAR) exams as a number between 1 and 13. In conjunction with the pupils grade level, an age appropriate recommended reading list is presented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715618", "title": "Caspar Bartholin the Elder", "text": "Caspar Bartholin the Elder\n\nCaspar Bartholin the Elder (; 12 February 1585 – 13 July 1629) was born at Malmø, Denmark (modern Sweden) and was a polymath, finally accepting a professorship in medicine at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1613. He later taught theology at the same university.\n\nHis precocity was extraordinary; at three years of age he was able to read, and in his thirteenth year he composed Greek and Latin orations and delivered them in public. When he was about eighteen he went to the University of Copenhagen and afterwards studied at Rostock and Wittenberg.\n\nHe then travelled through Germany, the Netherlands, England, France and Italy, and was received with marked respect at the different universities he visited. In 1613 he was chosen professor of medicine in the University of Copenhagen, and filled that office for eleven years, when, falling into a dangerous illness, he made a vow that if he should recover he would apply himself solely to the study of divinity. He fulfilled his vow by becoming professor of divinity at Copenhagen and canon of Roskilde. He died on 13 July 1629 at Sorø in Zealand.\n\nHis work, \"Anatomicae Institutiones Corporis Humani\" (1611) was for many years a standard textbook on the subject of anatomy. He was the first to describe the workings of the olfactory nerve.\n\nOf his sons, two, Thomas and Erasmus, were also noted scholars.\n"}
{"id": "11761311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11761311", "title": "Certified Social Engineering Prevention Specialist", "text": "Certified Social Engineering Prevention Specialist\n\nCertified Social Engineering Prevention Specialist (CSEPS) refers to both an individual Mitnick Security Consulting certification and a broader professional certification program.\n\nThe CSEPS program currently offers one type of certification. To attain this certification, a candidate must attend a CSEPS training course and pass the exam proctored at completion.\n\nThe training program focuses primarily on how Social Engineering works through the use of numerous case histories and a detailed breakdown of the psychological principles related to influence. It more specifically focuses on how a malicious hacker or information thief uses Social Engineering and/or Pretexting to obtain illicit access to computer systems by duping employees, and what can be done to minimize social engineering based attacks in an organization.\n\nThe course and exam costs approximately US$2300.00 per person. The course is two days in length. The exams takes between 1 and 2 hours to complete and consists of between 50-90 multiple choice questions and an essay section dealing with specific actions taken to prevent Social Engineering in a proposed scenario.\n\nThe exam was first designed by Kevin Mitnick and Alexis Kasperavičius in 2004, with assistance from various experts in the psychology field.\n\n"}
{"id": "19553126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553126", "title": "Chemistry Quality Eurolabels", "text": "Chemistry Quality Eurolabels\n\nThe Chemistry Quality Eurolabels or European Quality Labels in Chemistry (Labels européens de Qualité en Chimie) is a marketing scheme for chemistry degrees at institutions located within the 45 countries involved in the Bologna process. Labels are awarded to qualifying institutions under the names are Eurobachelor and Euromaster, as well as the proposed Eurodoctorate. Label Committee not only prepares for the ECTN Administrative Council proposals to award the Eurolabels but also judge the quality of chemical education programmes at HEIs. ECTN and its Label Committee closely collaborates with EuCheMS and American Chemical Society.\n\nIt is a framework which is supported by EuCheMS, and the labels are awarded by ECTN. The project is supported by the European Commission (EC) through its SOCRATES programme. The purpose of the framework is to \"promote recognition of first, second cycle degrees, and third cycle degrees not only within the 45 countries involved in the Bologna process\".\n\nEuropean Union promoted the Bologna process and the creation of a single European higher education area, both of which require mobility of graduates across Europe.\n\nECTN (European Chemistry Thematic Network) worked in the EU project \"Tuning Educational Structures in Europe\" and developed Eurobachelor, a framework for a first cycle qualification (first degree) in chemistry. EuCheMS approved Eurobachelor in October 2003.\n\nIn June 2004 the Bologna process seminar \"Chemistry Studies in the European Higher Education Area\" approved Eurobachelor.\n\nThe label committee members are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEurobachelor is a registered trademark and an initiative adopted by the EuCheMS General Assembly in 2003. It is associated with the Chemistry Quality Eurolabels. As of 8 April 2013, 60 Eurobachelor quality labels have been awarded. The label is intended for first cycle qualifications (bachelor's degrees).\n\nEurobachelor is based on 180 ECTS (European credits), which is comparable to the three-year British degrees, but it does not include the British concepts of honours degrees and ordinary degrees.\n\nEuromaster is a registered trademark and an initiative adopted by the EuCheMS General Assembly in 2005. It is associated with the Chemistry Quality Eurolabels. As of 8 April 2013, 36 Euromaster quality labels have been awarded. The label is intended for master's degrees.\n\nEuromaster, introduced after Eurobachelor, is intended for second cycle qualifications (postgraduate degrees).\n\nEurodoctorate is associated with the Chemistry Quality Eurolabels. As of 8 April 2013, 1 Eurodoctorate quality label was awarded. The label is intended for third cycle qualifications (i.e. doctoral degrees).\n\nThe Tuning Chemistry Subject Area Group (Tuning SAG) discussed with a working party of ECTN (European Chemistry Thematic Network Association) in a meeting held in February 2006 in Helsinki, Finland, taking into account the declarations of the Bergen Communiqué 2005. The EHEA Overarching Framework, which was approved by the Ministers of Education of European Union member states in Bergen uses the Dublin descriptors and Tuning SAG decided to use the Dublin descriptors to form a new set of descriptors, the Budapest descriptors for third cycle qualifications.\n\nThe Chemistry Eurodoctorate Framework version 1 was published in November 2006.\n\nAs of 8 April 2013, 60 Eurobachelor, 36 Euromaster, and 1 Eurodoctorate labels have been awarded to 52 institutions and 3 consortia from 20 countries.\n\nThe countries that have been awarded labels include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41045027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41045027", "title": "Classwide Peer Tutoring", "text": "Classwide Peer Tutoring\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a variation of peer-mediated instruction that has been used in elementary, middle school, and high school classrooms. In CWPT students form pairs and take turns in the roles of tutor and student. Students earn points for their teams by participating in the tutoring and the winning team is recognized. Researchers have investigated CWPT's effectiveness in several different academic areas.\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a form of peer-mediated instruction where the teacher creates pairs of students that alternately fill the roles of tutor and student. The tutor asks questions, records points, and provides feedback on whether the student's response matches the correct response designated by the teacher. The student responds orally and/or in writing to the questions and practices the correct answer three times if he or she makes an error. The teacher supervises the tutoring and awards points for good tutoring. A classroom's student pairs are divided into two teams, and they earn points for their respective teams by answering questions correctly, correcting their incorrect answers, and tutoring appropriately. At the end of a week, the team that has earned the most points is recognized as the winning team. CWPT has been used to help students learn spelling, math facts, basic word reading, reading fluency, vocabulary, and facts related to an area of study. There appear to be more published studies of CWPT with positive outcomes in the area of spelling than in other areas. The CWPT technique has been used with several different age levels: pre-school, elementary, middle school, and high school. CWPT was initially developed and researched in the early 1980s at the Juniper Gardens Children's Project at the University of Kansas.\n\nThe developers of CWPT suggest that this technique provides students more opportunities to practice content or skills, encourages them to engage in active learning, and lets them receive immediate feedback. CWPT is also thought to provide students with practice using social skills.\n\nCWPT has been effective for teaching spelling to both students in general education and students with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), mild intellectual disabilities, and learning disabilities. CWPT has helped improve the sight word retention and reading fluency of students with average school achievement, low school achievement, and learning disabilities. CWPT has also been shown to improve math fact fluency among students with and without disabilities, and it has increased the math achievement scores of middle school students with ADHD. There is also evidence that CWPT helps students of different ages learn facts, such as health and safety information, history material, and social studies concepts. CWPT has also been documented as having positive effects on the social skills and number of social interactions of students with mild disabilities and high functioning autism. There is also research demonstrating CWPT's effectiveness for teaching students of different ages and ability levels physical skills such as catching, striking a ball with a paddle, and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation skills.\n\nThe United States Department of Education's What Works Clearinghouse has evaluated CWPT for effectiveness in the areas of General Reading Achievement and English Language Learning (ELL). These evaluations resulted in a \"potentially positive\" effectiveness rating in the area of General Reading Achievement for elementary school students, and no rating for ELL due to the fact that no existing studies met What Works Clearinghouse criteria for evaluation. What Works Clearinghouse does not currently provide reports for CWPT's effectiveness in any other areas.\n\nPromising Practices Network considers CWPT a \"Proven Program\". The website states that CWPT meets full criteria for a \"Proven Program\" by having research outcomes that fall in the category of the website's target areas, having at least one outcome that is changed by at least 20% or .25 standard deviations, having at least one outcome with a statistically significant and meaningful effect size, having studies that use comparison groups, having studies with sample sizes of 30 or more, and by having research findings publicly available.\n\nA few studies have shown CWPT to have few advantages over more traditional methods of classroom instruction with middle or high school students, such as teacher-centered instruction or independent practice. Researchers have also found that while CWPT may increase the positive social interactions of students with ADHD during the tutoring, it does not necessarily affect their social behavior in other settings.\n"}
{"id": "19931124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19931124", "title": "Consiglio Universitario Nazionale", "text": "Consiglio Universitario Nazionale\n\nThe Consiglio Universitario Nazionale (CUN; Italian for National University Council) is an elected body representing the various sectors of the Italian university system. It was established by law n. 18 of 26 January, 2006. The current president is Andrea Lenzi, professor in endocrinology at the Sapienza University of Rome.\n\nThe council is composed of a president and fifty-seven members. Forty-two are elected by the professors and researchers, eight by the National Council of University Students, three by the Conferenza dei Rettori delle Università Italiane (Conference of Rectors of the Italian Universities), three from the technical and administrative staff of the universities, one from among the deans of faculties and one from among the university administrative directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "3431387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3431387", "title": "Critical Review (Brown University)", "text": "Critical Review (Brown University)\n\nThe Critical Review is a student publication that produces reviews of course offerings at Brown University. The student group that produces it is also called the Critical Review. The reviews are written by Brown students from course evaluation questionnaires distributed to class members in the final days of the academic semester. Its purpose is to help students make informed course choices and to help instructors improve pedagogical techniques by supplementing the information in The Brown Course Announcement with real student experiences.\n\nIn 1976, just seven years after Brown's \"New Curriculum\" had been announced, The Other View: A Consumer's Guide to Courses at Brown was started by a group of Brown undergraduates as a publication of the Undergraduate Council of Students. In this annual magazine, students wrote reviews of courses based on responses to both the organization's own questionnaires and also based on departmental questionnaires which were made available by several departments. The written evaluations were short, and the numerical ratings sections, when presented, consisted of only averages. Department Undergraduate Groups were essential to the process because they distributed and collected questionnaires from classes and helped to develop customized questionnaires for their respective departments.\n\nThere was no set process for putting the magazine together, and since the questionnaires were different for different classes, the course summaries varied significantly in terms of what information they presented and emphasized. \"There must be a better way than having three people slave over questionnaires in the UCS office for two summer months,\" wrote the editors on the cover page of one of the first editions, \"A more rational, uniform process must be developed.\" Sometime between 1978 and 1981, the name was changed to \"The Critical Review: A Consumer's Guide to Courses at Brown\", and then to simply \"The Critical Review\" a few years later. The number of courses reviewed in each edition varied considerably from year to year. The editors changed the procedure for compiling the magazine annually. Co-Editors-in-Chief Tom Mashberg '82 and Ian Maxtone-Graham '82.5 led one such overhaul.\n\nIn 1984, recently appointed Editor-in-Chief Rob Markey sought feedback from students and faculty and then overhauled the system in time to create a 1985–1986 Semester I edition, the first issue of the \"Critical Review\" to cover a single semester. The editors introduced the now standard two-reviews-per-page format, with bar graphs, which were meant to depict the general distribution of student responses. The bar graphs were implemented in order to improve the accountability of the Critical Review by balancing the written summaries with objective data from the student surveys and by presenting sample sizes, so that professors would know the reviews were not based on the comments of just one or two students. The editors also created customized software to make it easy to produce the bar graphs. They developed a matching questionnaire to generate the student input on the courses in quantitative form. However, at this point the Critical Review still relied on professors to distribute its questionnaires, which some refused to do or did haphazardly. The publication also accepted departmental evaluation forms as an alternative to its own questionnaire. As a result, bar graphs were not available for many classes. Nevertheless, having found a satisfactory and manageable system to which Brown students and faculty responded favorably, subsequent editors changed relatively little about the format, process, and policy of the Critical Review over the next few years.\n\nMark Popofsky became Editor-in-Chief in 1989 and developed the bar graph system that the Critical Review still uses today. He established new policy for the organization which created lasting precedent: \"Because we solely represent student opinion, the Critical Review no longer prints any department-sponsored articles and cannot use departmental evaluations.\" The editors rewrote the questionnaire and developed new procedure that reduced the time required for the production cycle. As Popofsky wrote, \"This issue marks the culmination of what has been a personal crusade of mine for the past year: to publish the \"Critical Review\" in time for preregistration.\" Later editors said that he inspired them to make every effort to turn the \"Critical Review\" into a more professional-looking book.\n\nIn 1991 the Critical Review began to publish \"Insights from Student Surveys,\" which quickly evolved into a regular feature called \"Funny Quotes.\" The level of faculty participation gradually rose from the 1980s to the early 1990s. The Critical Review began using an instructor questionnaire as well in 1992, \"in order to gain the perspective of the faculty.\" A few semesters after switching publishers to the company TCI Press in order to print higher quality magazines, the number of courses reviewed reached a peak of 425 in the 1993–1994 Semester I edition. The Critical Review began using the program Adobe PageMaker to compose its page layouts at this time, which further improved upon the look of the book.\n\nDespite the efforts and hard work of the editors, the editions of the \"Critical Review\" that were published at this time were not flawless. The accelerated production cycle, combined with limited computing resources available to editors, resulted in a few editions of the magazine that contained significant errors. Some instructors stopped participating in the Critical Review because they saw it as unprofessional or sloppy. The gradual upward trend in the number of courses reviewed per semester came to a halt, and the number of reviews per semester gradually decreased until 1998, at which point it flat lined at about 280 reviews per edition.\n\nChristopher Anderson joined the Critical Review around 1993 and rapidly rose through its ranks as the computer consultant. He systematized many aspects of the production process when computing assistance was urgently needed and editors before him and after him identified him as a tremendous help. As editor-in-chief in 1995, he worked with faculty and Critical Review staff to perform a comprehensive analysis and revision of the organization's questionnaires. Despite all the help with the computer aspects that he offered over the years, he identified his new questionnaire as his greatest contribution to the Critical Review.\n\nRebecca More, Professor of history at Brown and Director of the Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, was one of the faculty members who worked with Anderson on this project. \"Many of the questions still in use today on the form date from that effort,\" she says. \"Our collective goal at that time was to develop questions which would be constructive and help faculty improve their teaching and student learning.\" Chris Anderson envisioned the Critical Review as more than just a resource for students. He saw it as a constructive feedback service for faculty as well, and worked toward that end by organizing a \"teaching forum\" for faculty in the spring of 1995. Unfortunately, the frequency with which the Critical Review published errors at this time, to some extent due to understaffing, prevented many instructors from taking a renewed interest. Nevertheless, Anderson's new questionnaire was used from 1996 to 2001, at which point it was further modified with the help of faculty.\n\nEven as early as 1993, the editors of the Critical Review recognized that the organization should eventually establish a web-based resource. As they wrote, \"The goal of putting together an on-line CR connected to the Brown On-line Course Announcement (BOCA) should be discussed.\" In 1997, the organization finally achieved that goal, thanks to its first website architect, David Tom '98. There was only marginal interest in the Critical Review's website during its first year of existence, however, as printed copies were still available for all undergraduates.\n\nJust as the website was constructed, the Undergraduate Finance Board decided to slice the Critical Review's annual budget from $25,890 to $11,490, the largest budget cut for any single student group that year. Facing a funding decrease themselves of more than $100,000 because of their reliance on diminishing holding funds, UFB deliberately targeted the Critical Review in order to eliminate its printed form.\n\nThe Critical Review editors were devastated by this decision. Evan Snyder '00 served as editor-in-chief for the next edition, and he outlined his case for the importance of a printed form of the Critical Review in it. He argued that with just an online format, the Critical Review would not be able to attract as many writers, students and faculty would have more limited access to it, readers would no longer be able to browse it leisurely, and thus it would be \"virtually impossible\" for readers to discover great courses inadvertently. He added, \"In our hyper-frantic rush to produce this book from scratch in a three-week period, the last thing we wanted to be doing was fighting for our existence. And yet this is precisely what circumstances dictate we do.\" The editors said that faculty would probably have to pay for their own copies from then on, and that they would no longer be able to produce enough copies for every undergraduate.\n\nThe Undergraduate Finance Board eventually returned most of the funding that it had taken away. After Evan Snyder graduated in 2000, however, UFB cut the Critical Review's printing budget again, and made the cut effective immediately. With the reduced budget, the circulation of the next edition was 2500 copies, down from 5500 copies three years earlier. In this edition, the editors again presented their argument for the importance of printed copies. \"We asked each student who filled out a [questionnaire] to tell us whether she believed that the hard copy of The Critical Review should continue to exist, and the reply was 'yes' in overwhelming numbers [...]. But sadly, this view has not been that of those with the most financial control over the publication.\"\n\nInterest in the organization rose after 2001, as the number of courses reviewed per semester gradually increased. The number of Critical Review staff members nearly tripled from 2001 to 2004, to the point that for the first time in its history, the Critical Review was able to introduce an application process to become a writer. The organization's website also underwent major revisions from 2002 to 2004, and at the beginning of the spring 2005 semester, thousands of students visited it each day. Students and instructors from other universities, including UC Berkeley, Boston University, Clark University, and the University of Rhode Island, began to contact the Critical Review for advice about how to set up equivalent services at their respective schools.\n\nIn a 2004 independent study to examine ways that the organization and service could be improved, co-Editor-in-Chief Nicholas Schade '05 studied available research on student ratings of instruction and sought suggestions from survey methodology experts. He also contacted Critical Review alumni, interviewed several Brown professors, and surveyed hundreds of students to compile a \"Report on the Critical Review.\" Among other things, this document brought to light concerns about the overall goals of the organization, institutional memory, faculty and student perceptions, and persistent internal difficulties. Partly in response to these issues, the editors hosted a \"Faculty Forum\" in December 2004 to seek suggestions and feedback from instructors about Critical Review policy and the questionnaires themselves. Some professors who had not participated in the Critical Review for years began to participate again. The editors formally rejected the perception that the publication is a service to only the student body by ratifying a group constitution in February 2005, outlining the objectives of the organization with regard to serving both students and faculty of Brown in a professional manner. Schade supplemented his report with other documents to produce a Critical Review \"Chief Editor's Resource\" in April 2005 so that these records could be further augmented, edited, and passed on to future editorial teams.\n\nMeanwhile, funding remained a major concern as the editors tried repeatedly to convince the Undergraduate Finance Board that the Critical Review must remain in print form. There were some gains, but after 2002, the Critical Review's budget increased only marginally. In 2007, despite the efforts of Editors-in-Chief Ariana Cannavo '08 and Dara Steinberg '09, UFB eliminated the entire printing budget, instructing the \"Critical Review\" to be a web-only publication. Since 2007, the organization has published course evaluations on its web page only.\n\nThe names of the positions within the Critical Review have changed over the years, but since at least 1994, the overall structure of the staffing and hierarchy within the group have not varied significantly. All phases of the production are handled by student volunteers. The tabulation and writing of the review capsules is performed by a team of Writers. Those who demonstrate strong commitment to the group and whose work is of high quality may be promoted to the position of Editor. In addition to assisting groups of Writers, Editors also handle all final editing of the reviews and create the actual page layouts that are combined and sent to the publisher to form the magazine. One or more Editors-in-Chief oversee the whole writing and publication process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "754131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=754131", "title": "Danish Folkeskole Education", "text": "Danish Folkeskole Education\n\nThe folkeskole () is a type of school in Denmark covering the entire period of compulsory education, from the age of 6 to 16, encompassing pre-school, primary and lower secondary education.\n\nLegend has it that Ansgar, a French Benedictine monk, was the first missionary to visit Denmark around 822, purchased the freedom of twelve male thralls and educated them in the first school in Denmark, at Hedeby in Schleswig. This was the forerunner of the religious houses which sprang forth over the entire country from about 1100 onwards. In their cloisters, boys from surrounding villages — and occasionally girls as well — received elementary instruction in the Mass and in dogma.\n\nHowever, quite early trade and crafts demanded more practical schools. The primitive writing-and-counting schools had their origins here, usually with very mediocre teachers, but they were very useful and therefore they flourished, maintained by private support and by the guilds.\n\nThe Lutheran Reformation came to Denmark from Germany in 1536. As in Germany, Protestants quickly broke up the Catholic school system. The religious houses were closed and the vast estates of the Roman Catholic Church taken over by the Crown. This meant that the state also took over such tasks as education.\n\nThe Church Law of 1539 contains Denmark's first educational legislation with a formal requirement for schools in all provincial boroughs. While new grammar schools sprang up, laying the foundation of classical humanism among the higher strata of society, the broad masses had to be content with the old Danish schools or writing schools which provided a primitive form of instruction.\n\nA substantial stride was taken in the direction of popular education in 1721, when King Frederick IV established 240 schoolhouses bearing the royal insignia and called them Cavalry schools after a division of the country into military districts. At the same time, the new religious movement of Pietism was spreading from Germany to Denmark. It aroused among church people a sense of responsibility towards forthcoming generations and enjoyed royal support. A series of calls by the church for universal confirmation which could only be met by some degree of literacy, brought many new schools into existence. Thus, a limited kind of compulsory education was formally introduced.\n\nHowever, it was the 'philanthropic' movement, a very active current of educational thought inspired by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in the second half of the 18th century, that first succeeded in creating a real school for ordinary people, open to all children.\n\nPlanned training of teachers developed in parsonages and state training colleges, and two Education Acts were enacted in 1814, introducing better municipal primary schools and independent schools for children in rural areas all over Denmark.\n\nWhen a prolonged agricultural crisis and economic slump after the Napoleonic Wars threatened to cripple the entire educational reform programme, the government had to resort to a distressingly mechanical method of education, the so-called Bell-Lancaster method imported from the industrial north of England, which reduced the number of teachers by a drastic simplification of the curriculum to enable preposterously large numbers of pupils to be taught by a single individual. After some years, this method provoked increasing opposition from parents, who wanted more liberal and inspiring forms of education. Their demands received vigorous support from the poet-clergyman N. F. S. Grundtvig, who exercised a powerful influence on the development of Danish schools. Grundtvig wanted to reduce the task of children's schools to no more than the teaching of reading, writing and arithmetic in order to make room, either at home or at school, for a liberal narrative education that would build on the natural potential for development inherent in the child's mind.\n\nGrundtvig's ideas were translated into practice by Christen Kold, who created a distinctively Danish parent-controlled school known as the free school as an alternative to state-sponsored education, exercising a growing influence over the latter's mode of functioning.\n\nThe Education Act of 1894 improved teacher training in several important respects. As Danish agriculture continued to modernise and Danish society continued to urbanise, new Education Acts were brought forth around 1900, which changed the Danish basic school by expanding its curriculum. A four-year middle school for students over 11 years of age was established in 1903 to form a bridge between the folkeskole and the realskole (lower secondary school) and the gymnasium. The middle schools rapidly attained great popularity, and over the next half-century, large numbers of children and young people used them as a stepping stone to upper secondary education.\n\nThe strong attraction to the upper classes to the folkeskole gradually weakened. Since the conception of the welfare state was intensifying the demand for social equality and democratisation, middle schools were reorganised in 1958 to include two academic paths: a 3-year academically oriented real department and the 8th-10th forms.\n\nNew acts in 1937, 1958, and 1975 reflected the demands of a new age in terms of equal access to all forms of education. The act of 1975 abolished the real-department and introduced two completely new examinations: the Exit Examination of the Folkeskole and the Advanced Exit Examination of the Folkeskole held on a single-subject basis.\n\nA new act in 1990 introduced new provisions regarding the administration of the schools with more managerial competence vested in the headteacher and the setting up of school boards with large parental representation. Finally, another act that came into force in 1994 stiuplated that the folkeskole give a student the opportunity to develop as many of their talents as possible. One of the watchwords of the new act is differentiated teaching, or that teaching should be adapted as much as possible to the individual student.\n\nThere are different ways of meeting the rules pertaining to compulsory education: by attending the municipal folkeskole, a private school, by home tuition, or as far as the last 2–3 years of the basic school are concerned by attending one of the alternative school forms: the efterskole, or the youth schools.\n\nMunicipal folkeskoles have about 88% of all pupils of compulsory school age. They provide basic education free of charge to children between the ages of 7 and 16, or through the voluntary pre-school, the 9 years of compulsory education, to the voluntary 10th year.\n\nThere are three different types of Folkeskoles, those with a pre-school and 1st-10th form levels, those with a pre-school and 1st-7th form levels, and those with only three or more consecutive form levels. The latter may be placed under the management of another school, unless the enrollment is more than 100.\n\nCompulsory education can thus not be met fully in the second or third type of schools, and students in such school have to switch schools after the 7th form. The first type of school is common in areas with large pupil-basis, whereas more thinly populated municipalities may have a number of the second and third type school and only one or two of the first type. The smallest school has six students and the largest 892, with the average school containing 320 pupils (1999).\n\nAny child resident in Denmark is subject to 10 years of compulsory education from the age of 6 to 16. The first year is pre-school, referred to as kindergarten class or 0th form. An additional non-compulsory 10th form is offered at many schools. Children who are to live in Denmark for a minimum of 6 months are subject to the regulations on compulsory education. Compulsory education means an obligation to participate in the teaching of the folkeskole or in a teaching which is comparable to what is usually required in the folkeskole.\n\nCompulsory education commences on 1 August of the calendar year of the child's 6th birthday, and it terminates on 31 July, when the child has received regular instruction for 10 years. At the request of the parents or with their consent, a child's education may be postponed to one year after the normal commencement of compulsory education, when such a step is justified by the child's development. A child may also — at the request of their parents, and if they are considered able to follow the instruction — be admitted before their 6th birthday.\n\nAs of 2013, Private, or free elementary, schools cater to 15.6% of students in 2004/05 of basic school age., having risen from 12.9% of students in 2004/05.\n\nIn the spring of 1991, the Danish Parliament adopted a new private school act, which introduced a new public grant system for private schools giving them a grant towards the operational expenditures per pupil per year, which in principle matches the corresponding public expenditures in the municipal schools - less the fees paid by the parents of the pupils in the private schools.\n\nIn 1999, the average grant towards the operational expenditures per pupil per year amounted to DKK 34,134 (US$5,500) and the average fees paid by the parents amounted to DKK 6,942 (US$1,100).\n\nPrivate schools can be roughly divided into the following categories:\n\n\nPrivate schools are recognised and receive government financing regardless of the ideological, religious, political, or ethnic motivation behind their establishment. Some private schools are very old, some quite new, and new ones are added all the time. It is characteristic of the private schools that they are smaller than municipal schools.\n\nAll that is demanded of private schools is that their teaching equal that of the municipal schools. The Ministry of Education confers on private schools the right to use the final examinations of the folkeskole, thereby exercising a certain extent of quality control. In principle, however, it is not up to any government authority but to the parents of each private school to check that its performance measures up to the demands set for the municipal schools.\n\nThe parents must themselves choose a supervisor to check the pupils' level of achievement in Danish, arithmetic, mathematics, and English. If the school is found inadequate, the supervisor must report it to the municipal school authority. In extraordinary circumstances, the Ministry of Education may establish special supervision, for example if there is reason to believe that the school teaches a subject so poorly that it may give the pupils problems later on in life.\n\nEducational experts say the rise in use of private schools in the 2000s is partly due to white Danish families putting their children in private schools when the neighbouring public school gets more than 30% pupils of immigrant background. About 24% of pupils grade 1-3 in Copenhagen attend private schools. Another factor is parents in small communities who have organized to start a private school when small public schools have closed as a results of the Danish municipality reform which led to fewer municipalities.\n\nThe folkeskole consists of an obligatory pre-school class, the 9-year obligatory course and a voluntary 11th year and a year in the beginning. It thus caters for pupils aged 6 to 17.\n\nThe comprehensive concept of the folkeskole enables students to remain in the same student group with the same classmates from the 1st to the 10th (or 11th) form, sharing the same experiences in all subjects with peers of all types of backgrounds and covering the whole range of ability.\n\nThe new act, which came into effect for the school year 1994-95, has abolished the division of the subjects of arithmetic, mathematics, English, German, physics, and chemistry into basic and advanced level courses in the 8th to 10th forms, introducing a system of differentiated teaching, by which the teachers have to adapt their teaching to the prerequisites of the individual pupil.\n\nSection 1 of the Act of the Folkeskole of 1994 states that:\n\n\"The folkeskole shall — in co-operation with the parents — further the pupils' acquisition of knowledge, skills, working methods and ways of expressing themselves and thus contribute to the all-round personal development of the individual pupil.\n\n\"The folkeskole shall endeavour to create such opportunities for experience, industry and absorption that the pupils develop awareness, imagination and an urge to learn, so that they acquire confidence in their own possibilities and a background for forming independent judgements and for taking personal action.\n\n\"The folkeskole shall familiarise the pupils with Danish culture and contribute to their understanding of other cultures and of man's interaction with nature. The school shall prepare the pupils for active participation, joint responsibility, rights and duties in a society based on freedom and democracy. The teaching of the school and its daily life must therefore build on intellectual freedom, equality and democracy.\"\n\nThe subjects taught in the folkeskole can be divided into obligatory subjects and topics offered throughout the entire period of the folkeskole and optional subjects and topics offered in the 8th to 10th year of the folkeskole.\n\nThe teaching in the nine-year basic school covers the following subjects which are compulsory for all pupils:\n\nDanish, Christian studies — including in the oldest forms instruction in foreign religions and other philosophies of life, PE and sport, and mathematics during the entire 9-year period; English and history from the 3rd to the 9th year; music from the 1st to the 6th year; science from the 1st to the 6th year; art from the 1st to the 5th year; social studies from the 8th to the 9th year; geography and biology from the 7th to the 9th year; physics and chemistry in the 7th to 9th year; needlework, wood- or metalwork and cooking for one or more years between the 4th and 7th year.\n\nThe instruction in the basic school furthermore comprises the following obligatory topics: traffic safety, health and sex education and family planning as well as educational, vocational and labour market orientation.\n\nThe second foreign language, German or French, must be offered in the 7th to 10th year.\n\nThe following optional subjects and topics may be offered to the pupils in the 8th to 10th year: French or German as a third foreign language, word processing, technology, media, art, photography, film, drama, music, needlework, wood- or metalwork, home economics, engine knowledge, other workshop subjects, and vocational studies. Furthermore, Latin may be offered to the pupils in the 10th year.\n\nThe teaching in the 10th form comprises the following subjects as obligatory subjects: Danish, mathematics, and English to an extent corresponding to a total of 14 lessons a week (i.e. half of the minimum weekly teaching time). Instruction must be offered in PE and sport, Christian studies and religious education, social studies and physics or chemistry. Furthermore, pupils who have chosen German or French as second foreign language in the 7th to 9th years must be offered continued instruction in that subject in the 10th year.\n\nThe pupils in the 8th to 10th year must choose at least one optional subject.\n\nSo all in all the subjects are: Danish, Religion studies, mathematics, Art, History, Music, PE, English and Science. These are all the basic classes, and then there are the later classes: Home economics, Chemistry, Social studies, needlework, Wood Work, Physics, Geography and Biology.\n\nThere are two ways of carrying out evaluation in the folkeskole: continuous evaluation and the evaluation made at examinations.\n\nThe student's benefit from the teaching is being evaluated on a continuous basis. This evaluation forms the basis of the guidance of the individual pupil with a view to the further planning of the teaching.\n\nIn addition to the basic skills, the folkeskole is required by law to help promote the personal and social development of each individual student according to their capability. Working methods are modified towards the pupil's attainment of greater self-reliance and maturity. This aspect of pedagogic policy requires close co-operation between school and home, and an ongoing dialogue is sought between teachers, parents and pupils.\n\nThe act is very clear on this point, requiring that pupils and parents be regularly informed of the school's opinion about how each student is profiting from their schooling. In this case, regularly means at least twice a year and refers explicitly to information as to the student's personal and social development as well as his purely academic attainment.\n\nIn the 1st to 8th year, information is given either in writing or, which is more common, as part of the conversational exchanges between all three parties: pupil, parents and class teacher - which are a regular feature of Danish school life.\n\nIn the 9th to 11th year, the information system is increased to include a written report at least twice a year giving the pupil's standpoint in academic achievement and in application. For pupils at this level, the evaluation of the level of attainment in the individual subjects is expressed in marks.\n\nMarks are given according to the 7-point marking scale indicating the performance of the pupil:\n\n\nThe last such marks are given immediately before the written examinations and express the pupils' proficiency in the subject at that particular time.\n\nThe marking scale was changed April 2007 (order by Danish ministry of Education, Order no. 262 of 20 March 2007), to be comparable to the ECTS grading scale:\n\n\nExaminations are held at two levels: The leaving examination after the 10th and 11th year and the 11th form examination. Standard rules have been developed for all the examinations with a view to ensuring uniformity throughout the country. For the same reason, the written examination questions are set and marked at central level. Examinations are not compulsory. The pupils decide whether or not to sit for examinations in a subject upon consultation with the school, or in practice, their own teachers and their parents. But, in general 90- 95% write the leaving examination after the 10th year of the folkeskole and 85-90% write the leaving examination after the 11th year.\n"}
{"id": "47578689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47578689", "title": "Department of Arkansas Heritage", "text": "Department of Arkansas Heritage\n\nThe Department of Arkansas Heritage (DAH) is a department of the U.S. State of Arkansas responsible for preserving, promoting and protecting Arkansas's natural and cultural history and heritage. The department consists of eight separate divisions: four heritage museums and four heritage resource agencies. The department’s central office coordinates and promotes all division efforts to make information and materials about the state readily accessible to all Arkansans through heritage and cultural events, educational resources and special publications. The common goal of all divisions is to seek out and protect the legacy and lore of Arkansas and what distinguishes it from other states.\n\nThe department is headquartered in downtown Little Rock along the banks of the Arkansas River. Its headquarters is about 34,000 square feet at 1100 North St. in Little Rock and includes offices, a materials and collections storage facility, a fleet-management physical plant, an herbarium, a library and multiple meeting spaces available for public use. \n\nThe heritage museums are:\n\n\n\n\nThe heritage resource agencies are:\n It was established in 1966 and became part of the Department of Arkansas Heritage in 1975. \nAAC is also funded in part by the National Endowment for the Arts. \n\n\n\nArkansans across the state can access databases and historical materials for genealogy and other research, whether at the Little Rock headquarters or at one of its two branches, Northeast Arkansas Regional Archives (NEARA) and Southwest Arkansas Regional Archives (SARA). Artifacts and records from everyday Arkansans are collected and preserved through the Archives. The Black History Commission of Arkansas serves to collect materials on Arkansas’s African American history for the Arkansas State Archives, working to raise awareness of the contributions of African American Arkansans. \n\nAnne Bartley was the first director appointed to the Department of Arkansas Heritage in 1975 by Gov. David Pryor to lead the agency after its creation. Cathie Matthews, who held the position from 1997 until 2012, was the longest-serving director. Stacy Hurst, appointed by Governor Asa Hutchinson in January 2015, is the current director. \n\nThe Department of Arkansas Heritage promotes Arkansas Heritage Month each May to promote Arkansas history and tourism. Each year has a different theme. Local entities can apply for and receive grants in order to create specific Heritage Month events, focused on the year’s theme. In the past, Arkansas Heritage Month event have included historical biking tours, special exhibits in local museums or libraries or history fairs with reenactments and historic activities. \n\nOn March 31, 2016, Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson created the Arkansas World War I Centennial Commemoration Committee to lead the state's remembrance of the events of 100 years ago. <ref>\nThe Committee works with the people of Arkansas to plan activities, conduct research, and otherwise expand the understanding and appreciation of the significance of World War I, until December 31, 2018. <ref>\n\nThe Arkansas Food Hall of Fame program was founded in 2016 by the Department of Arkansas Heritage to honor the unique foods and food traditions of Arkansas. \n<ref>\nIt was originally made up of four categories for nominations, Proprietor or Chef of the Year, Food-themed Event, Food Hall of Fame and People's Choice, with a fifth category added in 2017 titled Gone But Not Forgotten. A 13-member committee selects the finalists and winners from the entries. Honorees and finalists are announced at a special ceremony every spring.\n"}
{"id": "16569312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16569312", "title": "Education in Azerbaijan", "text": "Education in Azerbaijan\n\nEducation in Azerbaijan is regulated by the Ministry of Education of Azerbaijan.\n\nIn the pre-Soviet period, Azerbaijani education included intensive Islamic religious training that commenced in early childhood. Beginning at roughly age five and sometimes continuing until age twenty, children attended madrasahs, education institutions affiliated with mosques. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, madrasahs were established as separate education institutions in major cities, but the religious component of education remained significant. In 1865 the first technical high school and the first women's high school were opened in Baku. In the late nineteenth century, secular elementary schools for Azerbaijanis began to appear (schools for ethnic Russians had been established earlier), but institutions of higher education and the use of the Azerbaijani language in secondary schools were forbidden in Transcaucasia throughout the tsarist period. The majority of ethnic Azerbaijani children received no education in this period, and the Azerbaijani literacy rate remained very low, especially among women. Few women were allowed to attend school.\n\nIn the Soviet era, literacy and average education levels rose dramatically from their very low starting point, despite two changes in the script, from Arabic to Latin in the 1920s and from Latin to Cyrillic in the 1930s. According to Soviet data, 100 percent of males and females (ages nine to forty-nine) were literate in 1970. According to the United Nations Development Program Report 2009, the literacy rate in Azerbaijan is 99.5 percent.\n\nDuring the Soviet period, the Azerbaijani education system was based on the standard model imposed by Moscow, which featured state control of all education institutions and heavy doses of Marxist–Leninist ideology at all levels.\n\nSince independence, one of the first laws that Azerbaijan's Parliament passed was to adopt a modified-Latin alphabet to replace Cyrillic. Other than that the Azerbaijani system has undergone little structural change. Initial alterations have included the reestablishment of religious education (banned during the Soviet period) and curriculum changes that have reemphasized the use of the Azerbaijani language and have eliminated ideological content. In addition to elementary schools, the education institutions include thousands of preschools, general secondary schools, and vocational schools, including specialized secondary schools and technical schools. Education through the ninth grade is compulsory. At the end of the Soviet period, about 18 percent of instruction was in Russian, but the use of Russian began a steady decline beginning in 1988. Today English and Russian are taught as second or third languages.\n\nEducation in Azerbaijan is regarded as an area of activity that constitutes the basis for the development of the society and the state, which has a strategic precaution and superiority. In the Republic of Azerbaijan, the educational system has a democratic, secular character and its basis is national and international values. All citizens are entitled to 9 years of compulsory general education.\nThe right to education is the fundamental right of citizens of the Republic of Azerbaijan. This was established in the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan and in the Education Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nArticle 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan states that the right of citizens to be educated is determined as follows:\nEducation is free and compulsory for children between the ages of six and fifteen. Basic schooling is divided into three: primary education, general secondary and full secondary education.\n\nAzerbaijani is the main language of education in the schools of the Republic of Azerbaijan and Azerbaijani is the official language of the country. There are, however, many schools who offer the whole 9 years of general education, 3 years of higher education and bachelor's degree in Russian. The languages offered is not limited to Russian only: there are branches of well-known schools and foundations e.g. British School, EF English First which offer the English language based education for both foreigners and expats in the country and the local people, for 9–11 years of the general education, although majority of these schools have higher than average tuition costs in comparison with the local educational establishments mainly due to being private organizations and schools.\n\nFor bachelor's degree, the choice gets wider: the three major languages (Azerbaijani, Russian and English) as a medium of instruction are still there, however, for those who plan to take regional studies courses the classes are offered in languages corresponding to their study of country e.g. Japanese studies and culture students must take Japanese language course without exception for some classes, summer schools and internships may require higher knowledge of the language.\n\nUndergraduate courses are tended to be taught in English, especially at newly founded or popular universities e.g. ADA University, Baku Higher Oil School, Baku Engineering University (former Qafqaz University). Along with this, traditional and old universities e.g. Baku State University, Azerbaijan University of Languages and other establishments offer not only arts and humanities but also social science courses mainly in English.\n\nPrimary education starts with one year of pre-primary school training. Before pre-school training majority of children already know the basics of understanding from their kindergarten experience. So pre-school training is mainly to develop kids' comprehension, nature, taste and understanding of surrounding elements. Some children acquire writing and reading skills during this period as well, however, it differs from child to child and their skills mainly.\n\nPrimary school itself starts at the age of six and lasts four years, 1-4 classes. At the age of 10 students take an exam and pass to what is called in the western system \"middle school\". The majority of the population attend public schools for primary education, however, there are many private schools to choose and attend too.\n\nThis stage of education is equal to the western system of middle school and covers 5-9th grades. General secondary education is also free in public schools. In this period students get deeper knowledge about literature, math, languages, history, culture, sports, science, arts etc. At the end of general secondary education, they take an exam to get the full secondary education.\n\nFull secondary education covers 10th, and 11th grades and is also free in public schools Azerbaijan offers. At this stage students already choose their choice of future profession and prepare for entrance exams that take place every year in summer. This is considered to be the most vulnerable period of studentship mainly due to the stress level caused by the entrance exam competition to score higher and to get full scholarships from the government to pay for their tuition fees among students.\n\nEntrance exam is the official governmental exam entrants take to get into universities every summer in different regions of Azerbaijan. It used to be free till 2017, however, students who want to take entrance exams now have to pay 40₼ ($23.5 as of May 5, 2017). Evaluation is based on the higher the better system: maximum score is 700. Students are required to answer 25 questions from each subject according to the path they are going, making it overall 5 subjects for each profession group. There are overall 4 main groups of profession and one extra (5th group) for those who plan to attend vocational schools. The government exempts those who score higher from tuition fees.\n\nGraduates who have completed their education and have successfully completed the examinations and diplomas are presented with a uniform state document certifying their profession and their degree. The training document is the basis for starting work and moving to the new step. Documents related to the education presented are cercertificate scholarship, diploma, professional master diploma, diploma, bachelor's, master's and doctoral diploma over the \"junior expert\" category, certificate for increasing specialization, diploma related to re-training.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, the education system consists of graduated educational programs, educational institutions networks, the governing bodies of the education system and other institutions dealing with education and training.\nManagement, as part of the function of an excellent system with various characteristics, ensures that some of its structures are preserved, the regime of operation, the program and its objectives are carried out successfully.\nA system of government agencies and community self-governing bodies is being established to manage education. These organizations operate within the framework of competence set out in the education legislation and are in undertakings with non-binding laws. Educational administration The Education Act is balanced by the rules and programs of appropriate legislation and educational institutions and is based on international experience.\nThe Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Ministry of Education and the local educational institutions are the main subjects of the administration of the education system.\nLocal government agencies, related scientific-pedagogical communities, professional-creativity associations, societies, socio-political institutions and societies participate in the management of educational institutions.\nIn the management process, the Ministry of Education's mission can be generalized to the following aspects:\nIdentification of the most important problems in the education system, as well as the degree of importance of their resolution, as well as the assessment of the environment surrounding them for analysis and prediction;\nensuring that the system is legally documented so that the process is carried out regularly and the quality is improved;\nThe analysis and estimation is carried out, the results are presented to the group of officers who receive the decision;\nThe preparation and realization of the national strategic program related to education and the organization of national education standards;\nStatistical and forecasting and monitoring of included indicators;\nto make methodical services, to ensure that everyone enjoys them;\nEstablishment and development of continuous relations with other sectors and states;\n\nIntroducing all kinds of assistance to local education branches and educational institutions, new ideas and proposals put forward about their education plans and programs, textbooks and the strategy of educational materials;\nMaking innovation experiences and ensuring positive results, their support and wide-ranging implementation;\nGathering information about the entire system, setting up private data banks, identifying deviations and eliminating them in the short run;\nprovision of financing of the education sector (private and state); Taking effective measures to make investments in the system;\nsocial defense of the education system associates;\nCitizens are crammed for uninterrupted education, the elderly are being educated, the right to educate everyone;\nthe application of principles and procedures and other contemporary mechanisms of decentralization in the administration;Continual improvement of the infrastructure of educational institutions, meeting all kinds of needs.\nStudies conducted in the Ministry serve the following purposes:\nThe responsibilities and objectives of the Ministry of Education, local education branches, educational institutions, parents, community, private sector, government and non-governmental organizations (within the scope of the priority of the country's education system in the area of stock and production objects) Supported;\nEstablishing a mutual relationship between the participants of the various stages of the education system and raising the level of participation according to them, improving the qualifications and improving the relations between the prospective officers and their overseas colleagues;\nProviding appropriate management, infrastructure and technical facilities for the fulfillment of essential tasks in the education system;\ncensorship of various colleagues from foreign countries for the implementation of recent innovations and the resulting developed experience;\ncontinuous assistance to the development of the education system through the strengthening of the knowledge base, analysis systems, liaison channels and development mechanism;\nEstablishment of supportive opportunities and learning of developmental problems;\nMobilization of all possibilities to reach the ultimate goals.\nThe ministry's advisory bodies - the Executive Board of the Ministry, the Rectors' Council and the pedagogical publications participate in the management of the education system. Scientific-Methodical Central Responsible for the Ministry's Educational Problems Provides educational and methodological guarantees of the central schools. Azerbaijan Scientific Research Institute of Pedagogical Sciences is operating. This institute plays a major role in the field of education improvement, renovation, and is doing basic research in the field of pedagogical sciences. There are \"Education Councils\" at local educational institutions and branches and scientific and pedagogical councils at educational institutions.\n\nThere are currently 61 higher education institutions including universities in Baku and in the regions.\n\nPublic schools offer 11 years of education including primary, general secondary and full secondary education starting from the age of 6 to 17 (sometimes 18). The government of Azerbaijan provides all public schools with the necessary textbooks all free of charge. Medium of instruction is Azerbaijani, however, due to Soviet influence,here are still a lot of public schools offering Russian as a medium of instruction.\n\nThere is a wide choice for both expats and locals if they would like their children to attend private schools: Turkish lyceums and international schools are the most opt among all private institutions. Turkish lyceums have been the most favored private schools since Azerbaijan gained independence in 1991, however, recently due to some organizational issues the number of Turkish lyceums has decreased significantly or they operate under different names. There are, however, still a lot of Turkish schools operating in Baku and the regions.\n\nUnfortunately, due to language barriers, expats are not able to benefit from public schools Azerbaijan offers. However, there is a wide choice of the branches of international schools that can be attended in Baku and the regions.\n\nVocational schools can start from the 9th and 11th grade and last three to four years. These schools teach skills to students.\n\nThere are 38 state-run and 11 private universities in Azerbaijan. The ministry-released reports state that in 2016, 34224 students entered the universities. Universities employ 11,566 professors and 12,616 faculty members in the country. Because Azerbaijani culture has always included great respect for secular learning, the country traditionally has been an education center for the Muslim peoples of the former Soviet Union. For that reason and because of the role of the oil industry in Azerbaijan's economy, a relatively high percentage of Azerbaijanis have obtained some form of higher education, most notably in scientific and technical subjects. Several vocational institutes train technicians for the oil industry and other primary industries.\n\nThe most popular institutions of higher education are the Baku State University, Azerbaijan State Oil Academy (ASOA), Baku Higher Oil School , Baku Engineering University, (former Qafqaz University), Khazar University, Azerbaijan Tourism and Management University, Azerbaijan Technical University, Azerbaijan State Pedagogical University, Mirza Fath Ali Akhundzade Pedagogical Institute for Languages, Azerbaijan Medical University, Uzeyir Hajibayov Baku Academy of Music. Much scientific research, which during the Soviet period dealt mainly with enhancing oil production and refining, is carried out by Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, which was established in 1945.\n\nBaku State University (the University of Azerbaijan, established in 1919) includes more than a dozen departments, ranging from physics to Oriental studies, and has the largest library in Azerbaijan. The student population numbers more than 11,000, and the faculty over 600. The Institute of Petroleum and Chemistry, established in 1920, has more than 15,000 students and a faculty of about 1,000. The institute trains engineers and scientists in the petrochemical industry, geology, and related areas.\n\nSince gaining independence, Azerbaijan has worked on the restoration, improvement and development of general education. A number of programmes and projects have been implemented to make educational reforms. In this regard, a joint project was planned with the World Bank - Second Education Sector Development Project (2009-2016) which includes supporting the implementation of the general education curriculum and further curriculum reforms to successfully engage teachers, students, and education managers in the realization of the new general education curriculum, and to develop new learning materials and school libraries, modernizing in-service teacher training to support the education reform, building on the institutional framework supported by APL 1, using student assessment for education quality improvement to build up a new evaluation and assessment culture in Azerbaijan.\n\nIn order to allow the schools to select and order the books that they need, 1200 issues of the catalogue of available learning and reading materials were printed and sent to 500 schools. 31 organizations provided the 452 titles of books totaling 549000 issues. They are being delivered to 500 school libraries in accordance with the submitted orders. In addition, catalogue covers yearly cards (total 784 cards for “Azerbaijani language”, “Computer sciences”, “Mathematics”, “Life skill” subjects) for fee-based website www.e-tehsil.com which were delivered to 196 general schools having access to internet.\n\nTrainers were trained by the support of the UNICEF on the implementation of general education curriculum, including:\n\n- implementation of new primary education curriculum involved 148 trainers for training of primary grade teachers\n\n- general education curriculum reforms and management involved 150 trainers for training of education managers\n\n- implementation of new general secondary education curriculum involved 925 trainers for training of subject teachers.\n\nDaily information and photos regarding the educational issues became available at a website of the MoE. In addition, regular interviews were arranged in TV channels. Besides, periodical articles were published in the “Azərbaycan Müəllimi” (teacher of Azerbaijan) newspaper. In terms of reforms under SESDP, 14 enlightening commercial films were prepared and broadcast on “Ictimai” TV. The ongoing reforms were discussed in most releases of Open Lesson talk show.\n\nUNICEF’s support to Azerbaijan in the implementation of educational reforms was reflected in a UNICEF’s annual report on Azerbaijan (2015). According to the report, UNICEF assisted the Azerbaijani government to launch the first inclusive school. Professionals and teachers were trained on a model of special education. In this manner, the German model of inclusive education was started to be applied in accordance with the offer of the UNICEF.\n\nIn addition, the Teacher Training Institute introduced an innovative training programme for teachers called TEMEL (Foundation). This institute supported the implementation of strategy on developing the teaching capacity of primary teachers from 352 schools. In 2015, the government launched structural reforms to efficiently involve children with disabilities in education.\n\nA five-year plan was made to establish an education system meeting education and development needs of all children.\n\nThe following reforms implemented by the Azerbaijani government in 2016 in different fields of education must be particularly noted:\n\nThe Bologna Process which has been created by the European Higher Education Area under the Lisbon Recognition Convention is based on cooperation between public authorities, universities, teachers, students and staff from 46 countries.\n\nAzerbaijan is a full member of the Bologna Process/European higher education area since 2005. Joining to the Bologna process Azerbaijan began education reforms in order to get higher education meeting the common European standards. In 2005 Action Plan covering the period 2006-2010 was approved for the implementation of the Bologna Declaration. The process began to be implemented on the certain specialties in several higher educational institutions since 2006. But now the process is implemented in all higher education institutions in Azerbaijan.\n\nThe main requirement of the Bologna Process is to organize educational process in accordance with the European credit transfer system. This system also allows students to continue their education at other institutions of higher learning, and thus allows students to increase competitiveness on a labor market.\n\nIn order to accelerate the integration of the higher education system in the European Space of the Higher Education, ensure mutual recognition of diplomas, and developments of student's and teaching mobility, the Cabinet of Ministries of Azerbaijan approved a resolution dated December 24, 2013, No348 on \"Rules of the organization of educating on credit system at levels of a bachelor degree and a magistracy of higher educational institutions\".\nAccording to the rules, students are not excluded from the university for Academic failure. If the student does not collect the required number of credits through its specialty for a specific period of time, then in subsequent years to collecting these loans it makes no annual fee.\n\nAt an assessment of knowledge of students, the minimum acceptable indicator of the points gained at examination is 17 points, as a whole by a subject of 51 points.\n\nAs a result of the reforms which have been carried out in the field of higher education, all higher educational institutions received a financial autonomy.\n\nOn July 3–4, 2013 an international conference organized by the Azerbaijan Student Youth Organizations' Union (ASYOU) on “Bologna process and Azerbaijan” was held in Baku. The conference that was attended by the delegations from Lithuania, Serbia, Ukraine Luxemburg and Belgium, focused on Azerbaijan`s achievements in educational system and prospects for further development.\n\nUK government's global scholarship program Chevening Scholarship is funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and partner organizations.\n\nEvery year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Great Britain creates the unique opportunity to candidates from all over the world to get master`s degree in the UK. All students from all nationalities except those from the EU and USA may apply for the Chevening Scholarship.\n\nChevening awards include full overseas tuition fees, stipend for living costs, air-fares, and a variety of other study-related expenses.The Scholarship also offers opportunity of becoming part of the highly regarded and influential Chevening global network.\n\nAzerbaijani students benefit Chevening program since 1994-1995. In academic years of 2016-2017 this program allocated scholarship to three representatives from Azerbaijan. Each year this number increases depending on the budget.\n\nThrough the Fulbright Scholar Program Azerbaijani students get an opportunity to continue their education via master's degree studies in the US universities.\n\nUnder this program all disciplines and academic fields of study are available. Applicants should be Azerbaijani citizenship, have University degree and English language proficiency (minimum 85 IBT TOEFL/7 IELTS score), availability of military service certificate, or proof of military service deferment for actual inductees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14762055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14762055", "title": "Forestry Information Centre", "text": "Forestry Information Centre\n\nThe Forestry Library of the FAO Forestry Department, located at FAO headquarters in Rome and now part of the David Lubin Memorial Library, is a specialized library that holds approximately 6,000 books and over 600 current periodical titles, yearbooks and other serial titles on forestry and related areas. It also has a large collection of grey literature - including documentation on FAO forestry projects and papers and reports from various FAO Forestry meetings - much of which is not readily available anywhere else.\n\nSubjects covered include sustainable forest management, fire management, arid zone forestry, forest health, planted forests, genetic resources, wood energy, harvesting, industries, trade and forests, non-wood forest products, biodiversity, climate change, desertification, environment and utilization, alien invasive species, forests and water, participatory processes, forests and poverty reduction, gender, small-scale enterprises, conflict management, forest law compliance and governance, national forests programmes, global forest resource assessment and other related subjects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27988072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27988072", "title": "Girl Talk Inc.", "text": "Girl Talk Inc.\n\nGirl Talk Inc. is an international student-to-student mentoring program designed for high school girls to mentor and be positive role models for middle school girls. Haley Kilpatrick founded the mentoring program as a high school student in Albany, Georgia during the fall of 2002, and the program currently has more than 375 chapters in 48 states across the United States as well as in the Virgin Islands and Zambia. The mentoring program has reached more than 30,000 middle school girls. Girl Talk Inc. is a non-profit organization with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nGirl Talk is designed to build self-esteem and encourage individuality in middle school girls. In the weekly chapter meetings, the high school Girl Talk leader picks topics to discuss for lessons that are designed to build girls' character and intelligence. Girl Talk sessions are guided by the T.H.I.N.K. acronym, which stands for True, Honest, Important, Necessary, and Kind, and refers to how people should converse. Girl Talk chapters are formed by female high school students, mothers, teachers or counselors, who visit the program's website and fill in a form requesting the creation of a new chapter. The Girl Talk Chapter Coordinator Erin Patterson then contacts those parties.\n\nHaley Kilpatrick founded Girl Talk at Deerfield-Windsor School in Albany, GA, in the fall of 2002 because of her own middle school experiences. Kilpatrick had a hard time adjusting in middle school and often felt left out. While in high school Kilpatrick led a very active and social life, but she noticed that almost all her friends encountered similar experiences throughout middle school. Thus, Kilpatrick decided she wanted to make a difference and create a student-to-student mentoring group to help ameliorate the middle-school experience for girls. After an initial rejection of the program by her school's headmaster, Kilpatrick revised her proposal and was eventually successful in being able to use her school as place to hold the inaugural weekly Girl Talk meetings. Kilpatrick felt that, \"if young girls were taken care of emotionally that they would excel academically.\". In (Executive producer), The Montel Show. Los Angeles: ABC. Retrieved from Lexis Nexis lexisnexis.com</ref> As Girl Talk continued to grow, Kilpatrick knew that she would need help in funding her new business. So, she approached Brown Bag Marketing Inc. of Atlanta, Georgia and hoped they could help her take Girl Talk to the next level. \"I basically told them that I knew that I was on the brink of something huge,\" Kilpatrick said. \"I was young, but I convinced them that if they believed in me, I would put them on the map.\" Brown Bag Marketing Inc. joined the Girl Talk team and donated thousands of dollars to build their website. Recently, Girl Talk has secured a $100,000 grant from Bell Capitol management, an Atlanta area investment advisor. Kilpatrick said the new funds will be used for starter kits for existing Girl Talk chapters, which include journals, T-shirts and a copy of the \"Girl Talk Handbook.\" Since the founding of Girl Talk in the fall of 2002, it has become one of the fastest growing nonprofit mentoring programs in the United States.\n\nHaley Kilpatrick is a native of Albany, Georgia who currently resides in Atlanta, Georgia and is the President and Executive Director for Girl Talk Inc. In 2007, Kilpatrick graduated from Kennesaw State University with a Bachelor of Science degree in Communications. She has traveled all across the country, promoting Girl Talk in dozens of national and local media outlets, including appearances on the Today Show, NBC Nightly News, CNN, HLN, The Montel Williams Show and The Oprah Winfrey Show.\n\nKilpatrick was recently named one of Atlanta's Power 30 under 30, as well as one of People Magazine's \"All-Stars Among Us.\"\n\nOther awards and recognitions Kilpatrick have received are:\n\n"}
{"id": "39315264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39315264", "title": "Global Education Magazine", "text": "Global Education Magazine\n\nGlobal Education Magazine is a quarterly peer-reviewed journal formed in 2012 by a group of cognitive analysts. The journal focuses on global education. Each edition has a different theme, published on specified days by the United Nations to address issues such as violence, poverty, health or refugees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39062970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39062970", "title": "Grant W. Sharpe", "text": "Grant W. Sharpe\n\nGrant W. Sharpe was a leading supporter of interpretation and a well-known environmental author.\n\nDr. Sharpe wrote about both interpretation but also forests as renewable resources. With co-authors John C. Hendee and Wenonah F. Sharpe he published \"Introduction to Forests and Renewable Resources\" now in its 7th edition (2009).\n\nHe was born in 1926 and died in 2006.\n\nTo commemorate his work the region 10 of National Association for Interpretation gives an annual \"Grant W. Sharpe Award\" to an NAI Region 10 member that has made a major contribution in the field of interpretation or that help legitimize interpretation as a profession following Dr. Sharpe's work.\n"}
{"id": "43504231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43504231", "title": "Green Schools Campaign", "text": "Green Schools Campaign\n\nThe Green Schools Campaign (GSC) is a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative by PenjanaBebas, the Association of Independent Power Producers in Malaysia in partnership with the Malaysia Building Integrated Photovoltaic (MBIPV) Project Team that began in 2009. Through the installation of 5kWp Photovoltaic (PV) systems in selected schools across the country, the Campaign aims to equip young Malaysians and teachers with information on the science and benefits of renewable energy. The Campaign also provides learning materials, organises programmes and established a Green Schools Campaign Project Club for the participating schools to encourage students, parents and teachers to be advocates of renewable energy.\n\nThe initiative is supported by the Ministry of Energy, Green Technology and Water, Malaysia (KeTTHA), and Suruhanjaya Tenaga (Energy Commission of Malaysia), and responds to the Malaysian Government’s call to encourage the generation of power from renewable sources.\n\nPartly funded by the United Nations Development Programme and the Global Environmental Facility, Phase 1 of the Campaign, involving five schools, was completed in 2011. Malakoff Corporation Berhad, a member of PenjanaBebas, expanded the number of schools under the umbrella of the Green Schools Campaign through its own Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, with three Malakoff Project Sunshine schools. Installation at the schools was completed in mid-2012.\n\nIn 2011, PenjanaBebas in partnership with KeTTHA launched Green Schools Campaign 2, expanding the number of participating schools by 30. Work on the 30 schools began in 2012 and was completed in 2014. As of 1 July 2014, the 38 GSC schools collectively generated a total of 315,217kWh of clean energy and avoided the emissions of 217,500 kg of CO2.\n\nGreen Schools Campaign Phase 3 was announced in March 2014 and will see an additional 100 schools nationwide joining the existing 38 schools. It is targeted for completion by October 2015, upon which the total energy generation capacity of the combined 138 GSC schools will be 690kWp, avoiding emissions of an estimated 331,200 kg of harmful CO2 annually.\n\nView Map of PenjanaBebas-KeTTHA Green Schools Campaign\n\n\"Initiated and Funded By:\" PenjanaBebas, MBIPV\n\n\"Installation Timeline:\" Launched 2009 - Completion 2011\n\n\"Supported By:\" United Nations Development Programme, Global Environmental Facility\n\n\"Total Capacity:\" 25 kWp\n\n\"CO2 Emissions Avoided:\" 79,448 kg as of 1 July 2014\n\n\"Initiated By:\" PenjanaBebas, KeTTHA\n\n\" Funded By:\" AAIBE, KeTTHA\n\n\"Installation Timeline:\" Began 2011 - Completion 2013\n\n\"Supported By:\" Ministry of Education, Jabatan Kerja Raya Malaysia, Sustainable Energy Development Authority, Malaysia, Suruhanjaya Tenaga, Malaysia, Tenaga Nasional Malaysia\n\n\"Total Capacity:\" 150 kWp\n\n\"CO2 Emissions Avoided:\" 109,234 kg as of 1 July 2014\n\n\"Initiated and Funded By:\" Malakoff Corporation Berhad\n\n\"Installation Timeline:\" Launched 2012 - Completion 2012\n\n\"Partners:\" Malakoff Corporation Berhad, KeTTHA\n\n\"Total Capacity:\" 15 kWp\n\n\"CO2 Emissions Avoided:\" 28,817 kg as of 1 July 2014\n\nPersatuan Nasional Penjana Kuasa Bebas Malaysia or \"PenjanaBebas\" in short, was established in June 1995, by the pioneering independent power producers. Amongst the Association's objectives are to educate the public on the continuing role of PenjanaBebas and its members towards the economy and society, to provide a forum for the members to discuss prevailing issues facing the electrical supply industries of Malaysia and to co-ordinate common Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes amongst its members.\n\nThe Ministry of Energy, Green Technology and Water, Malaysia (KeTTHA) was established on 9 April 2009 to oversee and accelerate the development of green and sustainable technologies in Malaysia. Prior to this, KeTTHA was known as the Ministry of Energy, Water and Communications (MEWC), which was established on 27 March 2004 through the restructuring of the Ministry of Energy, Communications and Multimedia.\n\nOther partners include: Ministry of Education Malaysia, Public Works Department (Jabatan Kerja Raya) Malaysia, Energy Commission (Suruhanjaya Tenaga) Malaysia, Tenaga Nasional Berhad, Sustainable Energy Development Authority Malaysia\n\nGreen Schools Campaign has its presence in social media platform, such as Facebook and Google+, to enable engagement with students and teachers, other stakeholders as well as public audience.\n"}
{"id": "42207810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42207810", "title": "Heritage Foundation Pakistan", "text": "Heritage Foundation Pakistan\n\nHeritage Foundation of Pakistan is a Pakistani heritage and humanitarian aid organization founded by Yasmeen Lari and Suhail Zaheer Lari in 1980.\n\nThe organization's mission is \"to document and conserve the traditional and historic built environment of Pakistan; create an awareness of Pakistan’s rich and diverse historic architecture and art; and to promote cultural heritage for social integration, peace and development.\"\n\nIn 2002, the Heritage Foundation of Pakistan received the Recognition Award from the United Nations System in Pakistan for its commitment to \"documentation and conservation of heritage and environment of traditional and historical centers of Pakistan.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13075933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13075933", "title": "Hibur", "text": "Hibur\n\nHiBuR (\"connection\" in Hebrew) is a voluntary student program. HiBuR's main purpose is to forge connections between students of the Israel Institute of Technology (Technion) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) by offering joint educational activities and practical experiences at both universities.\n\nStudent Exchange – One of Hibur's current endeavors is to establish a program that provides students the opportunity to study abroad. This experience will enable students to:\n\nHibur’s internship program offers students the chance to live, study and work in a foreign country. Internship departments in Boston and Haifa strive to find the best match for the students when placing them in corporate and academic environments in Israel and the United States.\n\nAs a result of faculty and student interest MISTI decided to create MISTI Israel in the Summer of 2008.\n\nThe Haifa Department, with the collaboration of MISTI Israel, helped find internships for MIT students in Haifa-based high-tech companies and Technion campus laboratories,\n\nHibur’s joint educational activities including video lectures, workshops, delegations, and various enrichment and higher learning opportunities, form an integral part of the program.\n\nVideo Lecture – Throughout the academic year, Technion and MIT researchers give online, dynamic lectures in real-time about the latest research in their fields of expertise. The video lectures are available to the greater student body and do not require prior background knowledge.\n\nTeaching Assistant Workshops – Every year, MIT conducts a workshop focusing on improving the quality of academic classes. These workshops are geared to teaching assistants and professors alike. In the past, Hibur organized online workshops in which Technion teaching assistants and professors exchanged ideas and information with their MIT counterparts\n\nDelegations – Every year Hibur sends an Academic delegation of approximately eight to fifteen students to the Technion and MIT to exchange ideas, knowledge, and perspectives with students at the visited campus. This delegation provides a great resource for students to swap information regarding their universities, native countries and ongoing research projects.\n\nBizTEC & 100K – The Technion holds a yearly entrepreneur competition called BizTEC. The ten finalists of BizTEC then have the opportunity to compete in the equivalent entrepreneur competition at MIT, The MIT 100K.Entrepreneureship Competition. In order to compete, participating groups must have at least one representative from the university that holds the competition. Hibur’s programs offer students from the Technion and MIT the opportunity to connect and form groups that can work well and participate together in competitions at both universities.\n\nJoint Academic Projects – Hibur’s online platform unites students from the Technion and MIT who would like to collaborate on final projects within similar disciplines. Students can perform research, write, and exchange information through Hibur’s website. Hibur also assists with the logistics involved in connecting researchers with students from each university and building joint intercontinental projects.\n\nMathWorks – Hibur has implemented a preparation course, which has helped hundreds of students, in Matlab for the Technion pre-university refresher program. Matlab, developed by MathWorks Inc., is a technical computing software program used by engineers and scientists.\n"}
{"id": "27068177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27068177", "title": "Israel Scheffler", "text": "Israel Scheffler\n\nIsrael Scheffler (November 25, 1923 – February 16, 2014) was an American philosopher of science and of education. He held B.A. and M.A. degrees in psychology from Brooklyn College, an M.H.L. and a D.H.L.(hon.) from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. He defended his doctoral thesis, \"On quotation\", at the University of Pennsylvania in 1952, where he studied with Nelson Goodman and began teaching that year at Harvard University, where he spent his career. He retired in 1992.\nHis main interests lay in the philosophical interpretation of language, symbolism, science and education. He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a founding member of the National Academy of Education and a past president of both the Philosophy of Science Association and the Charles S. Peirce Society.\nHis works have been translated from English into French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Persian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43121605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43121605", "title": "Jairek Robbins", "text": "Jairek Robbins\n\nJairek Robbins (born May 26, 1984) is an American performance coach and motivational speaker. He is the son of American life coach, self-help author, and motivational speaker Tony Robbins.\n\nRobbins was born in Santa Monica, California, to Tony Robbins and Liz Acosta. He graduated from the University of San Diego with a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology. While studying at USD, he took a semester abroad through the Semester at Sea program, and visited for a week at a time in Japan, China, India, Vietnam, Thailand, Tanzania, South Africa, Brazil and Venezuela. Robbins said in an interview given to \"Forbes\" that this was inspiration for much of his work, volunteer efforts and focus on finding a way to make a positive difference in the world through philanthropy and volunteerism.\n\nRobbins started his career in 2002 with the Anthony Robbins Foundation and worked there for two years. While attending the University of San Diego he spent 3 months living in a rural farming village as a volunteer teaching organic farming in Uganda through the organization Students Partnership Worldwide (now Restless Development). He was a board member for the non-profit organization \"Just Like My Child\" which also does education and health projects in Uganda.\n\nHe later became a Results Coach at Robbins Research International. From 2006 to 2008 he served as a representative of RRI. He founded Jairek Robbins Companies in 2010 and later started Rapid Results Retreat in 2011.\n\nRobbins is also a host to a weekly YouTube segment entitled JRCtv and a regular contributor to the \"Huffington Post\" blog. He delivered a TEDx talk in 2013, titled \"A Simple Formula To Inspire the World To Live Their Dreams\" in New York City.\n\nIn 2014, Robbins wrote a book entitled, \"Live It!: Achieve Success By Living With Purpose\".\n\nIn 2008, at the age of 23, Robbins received a Congressional Award Gold Medal, which is a non-competitive award for young Americans who have engaged in activities such as voluntary public service.\n\nRobbins married Amanda Andrzejewski in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "56459449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56459449", "title": "Karthik Muralidharan", "text": "Karthik Muralidharan\n\nKarthik Muralidharan (born November 1975) is an Indian economist who currently serves as a professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego, where he also holds the Tata Chancellor's Endowed Chair in Economics. His primary resaerch interests include development economics, public economics, and labour economics. Moreover, Muralidharan is co-chair of the education programme of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL).\n\nAfter growing up in India, Karthik Muralidharan earned am A.B. in economics (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1998, followed by an M.Phil. in economics from Cambridge University in 1999, and a Ph.D. in economics again from Harvard University in 2007. Since his graduation, Muralidharan has mostly worked at the University of California, San Diego, first as an assistant professor (2008-14), and then as associate professor; since 2017, he has held the Tata Chancellor's Endowed Chair in Economics.\n\nIn line with his research activities, Muralidharan is affiliated with a number of economic research institutions, including J-PAL (where he is the co-chair of its education programme, together with Philip Oreopoulos), Innovations for Poverty Action, NBER, BREAD, the Center for Effective Global Action, the ifo Institute for Economic Research, and the International Growth Centre. In terms of professional service, he holds editorships with the \"Journal of Development Economics\", the \"American Economic Journal: Applied Economics\", and \"India Policy Forum\", in addition to refereeing for various academic journals in economics.\n\nKarthik Muralidharan's research focuses on education, health and social protection, the measurement of the quality of public service delivery, programme evaluation, and improvements to the effectiveness of public spending (especially in developing countries). In particular, Muralidharan has contributed to the research of public servant absenteeism in developing countries, with a focus on teachers and health workers, e.g. finding that on average ca. 19% of teachers and 35% of health workers were absent on a given work day in a sample of developing countries (Bangladesh, Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Peru and Uganda), and that among those present many weren't working. Focusing on teacher absenteeism in India, further findings include that higher pay isn't generally correlated with higher presence, presence decreases in age and rank, and that absenteeism cannot be explained by teachers being outsiders to the communities in which they are teaching (as comparable local teachers have similar absence rates); moreover, private school teachers are only slightly less likely to be absent than public school teachers unless there is local competition between private and public schools. In another study on education, Muralidharan (together with Venkatesh Sundararaman) found that conditioning teacher pay on their performance for two years was effective in increasing students' performance in math and language tests by 0.27 and 0.17 standard deviations, respectively, in schools in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nHe is ranked among the top 6% of economists on IDEAS/RePEc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2951749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2951749", "title": "Kiri Te Kanawa Foundation", "text": "Kiri Te Kanawa Foundation\n\nThe Kiri Te Kanawa Foundation is a charitable foundation set up by the celebrated opera soprano Kiri Te Kanawa to help music students.\n\nThe vision of the Kiri Te Kanawa Foundation is that talented young New Zealand singers and musicians with complete dedication to their art may receive judicious and thoughtful mentoring and support to assist them in realising their dreams.\n\nThe Foundation's mission is to establish, build and manage a trust fund to provide financial and career support to such talented New Zealanders. The first person to be awarded a grant under the trust was the young Dunedin born soprano Ana James.\n\n"}
{"id": "4223528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4223528", "title": "Learning community", "text": "Learning community\n\nA learning community is a group of people who share common academic goals and attitudes, who meet semi-regularly to collaborate on classwork. Such communities have become the template for a cohort-based, interdisciplinary approach to higher education. This may be based on an advanced kind of educational or 'pedagogical' design.\n\nCommunity psychologists such as McMillan and Chavis (1986) state that there are four key factors that defined a sense of community: “(1) \"membership\", (2) \"influence\", (3) \"fulfillment of individuals needs\" and (4) \"shared events and emotional connections\". So, the participants of learning community must feel some sense of loyalty and belonging to the group (\"membership\") that drive their desire to keep working and helping others, also the things that the participants do must affect what happens in the community; that means, an active and not just a reactive performance (\"influence\"). Besides a learning community must give the chance to the participants to meet particular needs (\"fulfillment\") by expressing personal opinions, asking for help or specific information and share stories of events with particular issue included (\"emotional connections\") emotional experiences.\n\nLearning communities are now fairly common to American colleges and universities, and are also found in Europe.\n\nIn a summary of the history of the concept of learning communities, Wolff-Michael Roth and Lee Yew Jin suggest that until the early 1990s, and consistent with (until then) dominant Piagetian constructivist and information processing paradigms in education, the individual was seen as the \"unit of instruction\" and the focus of research. Roth and Lee claim this as watershed period when, influenced by the work of Jean Lave, and Lave and Etienne Wenger among others, researchers and practitioners switched to the idea that knowing and knowledgeability are better thought of as cultural practices that are exhibited by practitioners belonging to various communities; which, following Lave and Wenger's early work, are often termed communities of practice..\n\nRoth and Lee claim that this led to forms of praxis (learning and teaching designs implemented in the classroom, and influenced by these ideas) in which students were encouraged to share their ways of doing mathematics, history, science, etc. with each other. In other words, that students take part in the construction of consensual domains, and \"participate in the negotiation and institutionalisation of ... meaning\". In effect, they are participating in \"learning communities\". Roth and Lee go on to analyse the contradictions inherent in this as a theoretically informed practice in education.\n\nRoth and Lee are concerned with learning community as a theoretical and analytical category; they critique the way in which some educators use the notion to design learning environments without taking into account the fundamental structures implied in the category. Their analysis does not take account of the appearance of learning communities in the United States in the early 1980s. For example, The Evergreen State College, which is widely considered a pioneer in this area, established an intercollegiate learning community in 1984. In 1985, this same college established the Washington Center for Improving the Quality of Undergraduate Education, which focuses on collaborative education approaches, including learning communities as one of its centerpieces.\n\nLearning communities began to gain popularity at other U.S. colleges and universities during the late 80s and throughout the 90s. The Washington Center's National Learning Commons Directory has over 250 learning community initiatives in colleges and universities throughout the nation.\n\nLearning communities can take many forms. According to Barbara Leigh Smith of The Evergreen State College, \nThe learning community approach fundamentally restructures the curriculum, and the time and space of students. Many different curricular restructuring models are being used, but all of the learning community models intentionally link together courses or coursework to provide greater curricular coherence, more opportunities for active teaming, and interaction between students and faculty.\nExperts frequently describe five basic nonresidential learning community models:\n\n\nResidential learning communities, or living-learning programs, range from theme-based halls on a college dormitory to degree-granting residential colleges. What these programs share is the integration of academic content with daily interactions among students, faculty, and staff living and working in these programs.\n\nMicro-foundations are based on studies to understand how groups and teams increase their capabilities to work effectively together . If the organization is a puzzle, then the groups are pieces of the puzzle, putting them together makes it solid.\nFirst, it is based on the individual. In his opinion, all starts with group member and his/her capability to expose the deepest desire. By that, a person can encourage others and he/herself to move towards the goals. Second is mental models, where individuals have to constitute reflect their own thought and feelings how they see and feel world against their actions and how they effect in their actions. The third one is all about the sharing our visions. Basically, it is about how we can create a commitment in a group. Fourth is about group learning and how members can develop their intelligence and ability. The last one describes system thinking.\n\nWhen studying many other scholars ,, there can be found a basic red line of all these theories about organizational learnings. It all starts from individual tacit knowledge, by socializing that to another person, it transforms through externalization to explicit where it can be shared with a team and by arguing, internalize and turn it to practice. This is the ever-lasting spiral which brings the organization to the learning path.\nThe basic of learning comes from individual and after sharing and debate it with other individuals, it became too aware. These individuals make together a group and sharing knowledge with other groups it comes to learning in organizational level.\n\nUniversities are often drawn to learning communities because research has shown that they improve student retention rates. Emily Lardner and Gillies Malnarich of the Washington Center at The Evergreen State College note that a learning community can have a much greater impact on students:\n\nThe camaraderie of co-enrollment may help students stay in school longer, but learning communities can offer more: curricular coherence; integrative, high-quality learning; collaborative knowledge-construction; and skills and knowledge relevant to living in a complex, messy, diverse world. \n\nStudies show that enrollment in a learning community has a powerful effect on student learning and achievement.\n\nThere are also criticism on learning in groups. According to Armstrong (2012), people put in groups lose their sense of individual responsibility, and typically the things learned through taking individual responsibility are the things remembered by adults.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322782", "title": "List of universities in Bolivia", "text": "List of universities in Bolivia\n\nThis is a list of universities in Bolivia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9654170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9654170", "title": "Michael Kölling", "text": "Michael Kölling\n\nMichael Kölling is a German computer scientist, best known for the development of the BlueJ and Greenfoot educational development environments and as author of introductory programming textbooks. In 2013 he received the 2013 SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education for the development of the Blue programming language and environment.\n\nKölling was born in Bremen, Germany. He earned a degree in \"Informatik\" from the University of Bremen (Universität Bremen). In 1999, he was awarded a Ph.D. in computer science from Sydney University, supervised by John Rosenberg.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1997 he worked at the Sydney University, followed by a position as Senior Lecturer at Monash University and, from 2001, a post as Associate Professor at the University of Southern Denmark. He worked at the School of Computing at the University of Kent, UK, until February 2017. He is now a Professor of Computer Science at King's College London, where he also occupies the role of Vice-Dean for Education.\n\nKölling is the lead designer of Blue, an object-oriented programming language and integrated environment, BlueJ, and Greenfoot. All are educational development environments aimed at teaching and learning of programming. BlueJ and Greenfoot are widely used in many schools and universities.\n\nKölling co-wrote \"Objects First with Java\" (5th edition), with David J. Barnes, and wrote \"Introduction to Programming with Greenfoot\" (2nd edition).\n\nAt the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group of Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) 2010 conference, held in Milwaukee, WI, his work was referenced as one of the most influential tools in the history of computer science education. This paper described Kölling's work on the Blue programming language, which preceded BlueJ.\n\nOn 22 May 2005 Kölling made an entry to the BlueJ website in response to a post on Dan Fernandez's blog (Lead Product Manager - Visual Studio Express). Fernandez described a new feature of Visual Studio 2005 that \"helps you understand objects at Design Time, rather than runtime.\" This feature had striking similarities to the way the object test bench functions within BlueJ.\n\nKölling did not act on the discovery. However, on May 11, 2006 Microsoft attempted to patent the idea. As the object test bench is essential to the way it functions, had Microsoft's patent been granted, it was likely that BlueJ would have had to have been discontinued.\n\nKölling spoke to Microsoft, namely Jane Prey, and eventually the patent was dropped.\n\nFernandez posted a response on his blog where he says \"the patent application was a mistake and one that should not have happened. To fix this, Microsoft will be removing the patent application in question. Our sincere apologies to Michael Kölling and the BlueJ community.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8440946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8440946", "title": "New Farmers of America", "text": "New Farmers of America\n\nThe New Farmers of America (NFA) was organized in Tuskegee Alabama and became a national organization for African-American young men in 1935. The organization was formed to serve agriculture students in southern states where schools were segregated by law. Much like the National FFA Organization (FFA), NFA sought to provide young men with vocational, social and recreational activities in order to develop their skills in public speaking, leadership and agricultural trades. The two organizations merged in 1964.\n\nNFA stands for New Farmers of America.The NFA was an organization designed to develop the qualities of leadership and citizenship of its members by allowing them to participate in conducting meetings, sharing in carrying out the program of activities of the chapter, and serving on committees. The organization afforded its members leadership opportunities essential for their success as modern farmers. These leadership abilities were developed through public speaking, judging, chapter contests, and from training received through the work of the chapter committees under the supervision of the local adviser.\n\nThe NFA started as a vision of three men: Dr. H. O. Sargent, Federal Agent for Agricultural Education, U.S. Office of Education, George Washington Owens, Teacher Trainer, Virginia State College, and the “Father of NFA”,J.R. Thomas, Teacher Trainer, Virginia State College. NFA was a localized movement in Virginia around 1927. H.O. Sargent, Federal Agent for Agricultural Education, and G.W. Owens, Teacher-Trainer at Virginia State College, were two of the earliest proponents of an organization for African-American farm youth. While Owens wrote the constitution for the New Farmers of Virginia and helped lay the foundation for what would become a national organization, Sargent lobbied within the Department of Education to officially create an organization in segregated schools. As the idea grew in popularity, chapters formed sporadically throughout the southern states and region. State associations emerged next and then sectional associations based on proximity: Washington, Gulf (later called Sargent), and A-L-Tex-O (later called Almmot). These sections held conferences and contests unifying the state associations until a national organization was officially created on August 4, 1935.\n\nThe specific purposes were as follows:\n\n\nI believe in the dignity of farm work and that I shall prosper in proportion as I learn to put knowledge and skill into the occupations of farming.\n\nI believe that the farm boy who learns to produce better crops and better livestock; who learns to improve and beautify his home surroundings will find joy and success in meeting the challenging situations as they arise in his daily living.\n\nI believe that rural organizations should develop their leaders from within; that the boys in the rural communities should look forward to positions of leadership in the civic, social and public life surrounding them.\n\nI believe that the life of service is the life that counts; that happiness endures to mankind when it comes from having helped lift the burdens of others.\n\nI believe in the practice of cooperation in agriculture; that it will aid in bringing to the man lowest down a wealth of giving as well as receiving.\n\nI believe that each farm boy bears the responsibility for finding and developing his talents to the end that the life of his people may thereby be enriched so that happiness and contentment will come to all.\n\nThe NFA emblem was made up of five symbols:\n\n"}
{"id": "20929708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20929708", "title": "Nextstep (magazine)", "text": "Nextstep (magazine)\n\nNextStepU was a magazine which was founded in the United States in 1995 by David Mammano to help students plan for college, careers and life. It is a national publication for high school students that is distributed in 20,500 high schools in 50 states. The magazine is headquartered in Rochester, New York, where the first issue was published May 17, 1995. Today the magazine is no longer in production and exists as an all-encompassing college planning resource online at NextStepU.com \n\nOnline students can find several interactive tools to help them through the college-planning process. On the Path college-planning timeline, users are guided through each to-do before college. The site also features a $10,000 win free tuition college scholarship giveaway, a College Match tool, a scholarship search tool, and free college night handouts for school counselors. School counselors also receive a free resource mailed to them twice each year called LINK Magazine. \n\nIn 2008, the Association of Educational Publishers (AEP) named the magazine as a finalist in the \"whole publication\" category. In 2007, the magazine won AEP's \"periodical of the year\" title in the young adult category. AEP has previously awarded Next Step the following awards: \"whole publication design\" (2006), \"most improved\" (2006), finalist, \"best educational portal\" (2004), \"most improved\" (2003) and \"best how-to article\" (2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "1938323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938323", "title": "Overjustification effect", "text": "Overjustification effect\n\nThe overjustification effect occurs when an expected external incentive such as money or prizes decreases a person's intrinsic motivation to perform a task. Overjustification is an explanation for the phenomenon known as motivational \"crowding out.\" The overall effect of offering a reward for a previously unrewarded activity is a shift to extrinsic motivation and the undermining of pre-existing intrinsic motivation. Once rewards are no longer offered, interest in the activity is lost; prior intrinsic motivation does not return, and extrinsic rewards must be continuously offered as motivation to sustain the activity.\n\nThe overjustification effect has been widely demonstrated in many settings. In one of the earliest demonstrations of this effect, Edward Deci and his colleagues conducted a laboratory experiment in 1971 where subjects showing baseline interest in solving a puzzle were exposed to two different conditions. The control group were not paid on all three days while the experimental group were not paid on the first day, were paid on the second day and were not paid again on the third day. The subjects were given a break in the middle of each session and were being observed while doing whatever they wanted. The results showed that the experimental group spent significantly more time than the control group playing the puzzle during their break time on day 2 when they were paid but significantly less on day 3 when they were not paid. This was interpreted as evidence that the extrinsic monetary reward significantly reduced their intrinsic motivation to engage in the task.\n\nResearchers at Southern Methodist University conducted an experiment on 188 female university students in which they measured the subjects' continued interest in a cognitive task (a word game) after their initial performance under different incentives. The subjects were divided into two groups. Members of the first group were told that they would be rewarded for competence. Above-average players would be paid more and below-average players would be paid less. Members of the second group were told that they would be rewarded only for completion. Their pay was scaled by the number of repetitions or the number of hours playing. Afterwards, half of the subjects in each group were told that they over-performed, and the other half were told that they under-performed, regardless of how well each subject actually did. Members of the first group generally showed greater interest in the game and continued playing for a longer time than the members of the second group. \"Over-performers\" continued playing longer than \"under-performers\" in the first group, but \"under-performers\" continued playing longer than \"over-performers\" in the second group. This study showed that, when rewards do not reflect competence, higher rewards lead to less intrinsic motivation. But when rewards do reflect competence, higher rewards lead to greater intrinsic motivation.\n\nRichard Titmuss suggested that paying for blood donations might reduce the supply of blood donors. To test this, a field experiment with three treatments was conducted. In the first treatment, the donors did not receive compensation. In the second treatment, the donors received a small payment. In the third treatment, donors were given a choice between the payment and an equivalent-valued contribution to charity. None of the three treatments affected the number of male donors, but the second treatment almost halved the number of female donors. However, allowing the contribution to charity fully eliminated this effect.\n\nAccording to self-perception theory, a person infers causes about his or her own behavior based on external constraints. The presence of a strong constraint (such as a reward) would lead a person to conclude that he or she is performing the behavior solely for the reward, which shifts the person's motivation from intrinsic to extrinsic.\n\nLaboratory studies in the 1970s indicated that individuals under conditions with extrinsic rewards showed diminished intrinsic motivation. Deci and his colleagues (e.g., Deci and Ryan 1985) developed the cognitive evaluation theory to explain the results. As a sub-theory of self-determination theory, cognitive evaluation theory explains that both control and competence underlie intrinsic motivation and how extrinsic rewards affect intrinsic motivation is dependent on the individual's interpretation. Intrinsic motivation increases if individuals interpret rewards as pertaining positive information about their own competence and self-control over results, whereas if they interpret the results as indicative of external control, this decreases their feelings of self-control and competence, which in turn decreases intrinsic motivation. Cognitive evaluation theory also suggests social context as another implication on intrinsic motivation. Social cues can exert either positive or negative effects on intrinsic motivation depending on the messages that the context conveys regarding a person's autonomy and competence. Verbal rewards such as positive feedback and praise are predicted to be experienced as controlling hence decreasing intrinsic motivation. However, verbal rewards that are informational and not experienced as controlling are predicted to exert positive effects.\n\nSelf-determination theory is a broad theory of motivation in work organizations that maintains the predictions of cognitive evaluation theory but also recognizes the limitations of the theory, such as organizational conditions under which predictions do not apply or are less relevant in real-world settings, which cognitive evaluation theory fails to recognize. The theory differentiates between various types of motivational states, distinguishes the organizational conditions where extrinsic rewards are more effective than intrinsic rewards, examines individual differences in orientation toward intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation and discusses managerial behavior that can enhance intrinsic motivation. Findings from the Deci et al. (1989) study have supported self-determination theory as an approach to work motivation by showing how managers can impact the work attitudes of their employees. The study reported that managerial autonomy support which included provision of options, giving relevant information in a non-autonomous way, acknowledging subordinates' perspectives and cultivating self-initiation resulted in employees having more positive work-related attitudes such as higher level of job satisfaction and increased level of trust in corporate management.\n\n The overjustification effect is controversial because it challenges previous findings in psychology on the general effectiveness of reinforcement on increasing behavior, and also the widespread practice of using incentives in the classroom. These findings fail to account for situations whereby the nature of activities differ, such as in cases where the initial level of intrinsic interest in the activity is very low, introducing extrinsic contingencies may be essential for producing involvement. These conclusions were challenged in a separate meta-analysis which found that tangible rewards offered for outperforming others and for performing uninteresting tasks (in which intrinsic motivation is low) lead to increased intrinsic motivation, and stated that the detrimental effects of rewards on motivation only occur in a specific, restricted set of conditions that could be easily avoided. This set of analyses included both high-interest and low-interest tasks, whereas the original meta-analyses conducted by Deci and colleagues (1999) restricted analyses to tasks in which participants initially had high interest. In fact, a 2001 meta-analysis showed that rewards can increase intrinsic motivation for tasks that initially hold little intrinsic interest.\n\nAlso, according to Eisenberger and Cameron, claimed negative effects of extrinsic rewards on task interest derived from the Deci study (1971) do not take into consideration that conditions manufactured in laboratory settings that produce these effects are not true reflections of situations in the real world. For example, in the Deci study the incentive was provided for one session and was then arbitrarily withdrawn in the next and such incentive plans do not exist in the real world. Also, the reduced intrinsic interest seen in subjects may be explained by a negative reaction when the reward was withheld.\nEisenberger and his colleges also claimed that the validity of the dependent measure is highly questionable in the Deci study. Laboratory results that used the amount of free time spend on the task as the dependent measure are shown to be far weaker than when self reports are used for these measures. The Deci study gives far less weight to self reports, however self-reports about subjects' level of internal motivation seem to be a more direct measure of the psychological state of interest.\n\nConsiderable research has also shown that rewards tend to enhance feelings of competence and autonomy and high standards, pressure and competitiveness are able to increase these effects. For example, employees view earning incentives as enjoyable rather than a dreaded tool of management control. These findings are in contrast with the psychological mechanism for effects that Deci and his colleges had claimed in the past. Also in the past 30 years, notable academic reviews of rewards have confirmed that monetary incentives have shown to significantly increase performance.\nAdditionally, some activities require a significant level of mastery or engagement before its attractiveness becomes apparent to an individual, in such cases external incentives may be useful to build individuals up to that level. Token economy programs represent one example in which there is evidence showing that such programs have successfully implemented extrinsic rewards to increase interest in certain broad classes of activities.\n\nThere are also differences in effect among the different age groups. According to Deci et al. (1999), the negative effects extrinsic contingencies have on intrinsic motivation seem to be more severe for children than college students. One possible explanation is that college students have greater cognitive capacity, enabling them to better separate informational and controlling aspects of rewards. Hence they are able to interpret rewards as indicators of effective performance rather than controlling their behavior, which causes them to operate with performance-goal orientations. It is therefore speculated that such differences are far greater between children and employed workers.\n\nA rebuttal defended the original findings, concluding that this analysis by Cameron (2001) was flawed and that Cameron's inclusion of boring tasks in analyzing potential overjustification effects made little theoretical or practical sense. This rebuttal argued that cognitive evaluation theory is the most consistent structure for explaining the effects of rewards on intrinsic motivation, pointing to several other papers that have supported the theory.\n\nFindings from the Lepper et al.'s (1973) study suggest that presenting these extrinsic rewards poses central problems in the schooling system in that it fails to preserve the intrinsic interest in learning and exploration that a child may seem to possess during his initial phase in school. This also has severe ramifications on the education system, as it seems to almost undermine children's spontaneous interest in the process of learning itself, instead their motivation is driven by these extrinsic rewards. Research in this area suggests that parents and educators should rely on intrinsic motivation and preserve feelings of autonomy and competence as much as possible. When the task is unattractive and intrinsic motivation is insufficient (e.g., household chores), then extrinsic rewards are useful to provide incentives for behavior.\n\nSchool programs that provide money or prizes for reading books have been criticized for their potential to reduce intrinsic motivation by overjustification. However, a study of the Pizza Hut program, Book It!, found that participation in the program neither increased nor decreased reading motivation. Although motivating students to read by rewarding them may undermine their interest in reading, it may also encourage the reading skills necessary for developing an interest in reading.\n\nCognitive evaluation theory further predicts the different types of rewards that will exert different effects. According to the theory, task non-contingent rewards like benefits that are based on things other than performance, such as employment that do not consist any information regarding autonomy and competence, will have no effect on intrinsic motivation. Task contingent rewards on the other hand like salary which are awarded for performing or completing a task, will be experienced as controlling and hence will have a negative effect on intrinsic motivation. The study conducted by Deckop and Cirka (2000) reported that introducing merit pay programs in a non-profit organization led to decreased feelings of autonomy and intrinsic motivation, indicating that rewards can undermine intrinsic motivation in work settings.\n\nPerformance contingent rewards like monetary incentives that are given for good performance or meeting a certain standard will be experienced as highly controlling hence decreasing intrinsic motivation. The Shirom, Westman, and Melamed (1999) study found that pay-for-performance plans resulted in lower well being in blue-collar workers, and this was especially evident for those who felt that their jobs were monotonous. However, in certain cases where the reward also conveys information about competence that will in turn reduce the negative effect.\n\nThe term gamification refers to the application of game design elements to non-game contexts in order to drive participation, often with the goal of encouraging greater engagement with the non-game context by providing symbolic rewards such as points, badges, or virtual currency. However, a number of academics and other critics have expressed concern that these rewards may backfire via the overjustification effect. Drawing directly on self-determination theory, these critics of gamification express concerns that gamified contexts such as foursquare might provide expected rewards for activities that do not adequately meet self-determination theory's three innate needs for intrinsic motivation—relatedness, autonomy, and competence—and therefore reduce intrinsic interest in those activities.\n\nWebsites that rely on user-generated content sometimes offer monetary rewards for contributions, but these may cause the contributors to succumb to the overjustification effect and stop contributing. For example, Amazon Mechanical Turk allows the creator of a task to offer a monetary reward, but a survey of 431 Mechanical Turk participants showed that they are driven more by intrinsic motivations than a desire for the usually meager monetary compensation. The overjustification effect was also considered in a study on how to maximize contributions when crowdsourcing creative endeavors.\n\nEmpirical evidence shows that expected financial rewards \"crowd out\" intrinsic motivation, while the size of the monetary reward simultaneously provides extrinsic motivation. If the size of the monetary reward is not large enough to compensate for the loss of intrinsic motivation, overall engagement can decline. A survey data-set revealed that small financial payments reduced volunteer hours among Swiss citizens, and that the median financial reward provided to these volunteers caused them to work less than volunteers who were not given any payment.\n\nThe overjustification effect has also been linked to professional sports. The performance of numerous athletes has diminished following the signing of a lucrative, multimillion-dollar contract. Some notable professional athletes whose performances have diminished following a large contract include Alex Rodriguez (MLB), Albert Pujols (MLB), Wayne Rooney (Premier League) and Albert Haynesworth (NFL).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8298940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8298940", "title": "Presbyterian Boys' Senior High School", "text": "Presbyterian Boys' Senior High School\n\nPresbyterian Boys' Senior High School (or PRESEC, formerly Presbyterian Boys' Secondary school before the Advent of Senior high school name change) is a secondary boarding school for boys, founded in 1938, under the auspices of the Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast. The progenitor of the original idea for the school was the Basel missionary, the Reverend Nicholas Timothy Clerk (1862 - 1961) who served as the first Synod Clerk of the Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast from 1918 to 1932. The school has ties with its sister school, Aburi Girls' Senior High School. \n\nThe school's crest has a shield with the Presbyterian symbol (the St Andrew Cross-Scottish flag with the Swiss Flag embedded and a burning torch in the middle) with the motto of the school, \"In Lumine Tuo Videbimus Lumen\", meaning \"In Thy Light We Shall See Light\", scrolled beneath the shield. The school was originally located in Odumase - Krobo in the Eastern Region of Ghana before moving to its current location in Legon, Accra in 1968.\n\nThe school anthem is \"Happy Are We\", written by J. L. Anang.\n\n\nThe school was started in Odumase after a Ghanaian educationist with the Presbyterian Church of Ghana, E. A. W. Engmann lobbied for a boys' school to be started by the church. This came to fruition in 1938 with the first group of 16 boys and 4 teachers. Rev. Engmann was the first headmaster.\n\nThe Odumase campus housed German missionaries, then a primary school and then a government survey school before becoming the Presbyterian Boys' Secondary School.\n\nOne of the traditions of the school is the \"ɔdadeɛ\" (baobab tree) located on the campus. An alumnus of the school is referred to as \"Ɔdadeɛ\". The baobab tree is a Ghanaian symbol of knowledge, resourcefulness and strength. New students were traditionally initiated at the feet of this tree clad in bedsheets and powdered faces. PRESEC was located here till 1968 when it was moved to its new permanent location at Legon, Mile 9.\n\nIn September 1968, the new campus at Legon just north east of the University of Ghana campus at Mile 9, received its first set of students. At the new campus, it continued as a boys' boarding secondary school until the mid 1970s when the sixth form was upgraded to the National Science College. Female students were admitted into the sixth form in small numbers from September 1975. They continued to be part of the student body until June 1996 when the last batch left.\n\nThe Legon campus started with four student boarding houses. Three were named after notable Presbyterian leaders as Kwansa House, Clerk House, and Engmann House. The fourth was named Akro House after the people of Krobo at Odumase. The next two houses to be built were Riis House and Labone House. With the completion of the National Science College buildings, Ako Adjei House and Owusu-Parry House were added (the latter named after the first Senior Prefect). Another dormitory, House 9 admitted its first residents in September 2010 as well as a new house, House 10.\nIt regularly had one of the best GCE O-level and A-level results prior to the change of the national examination system to BECE and WASSCE. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55819565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55819565", "title": "Rondo (game)", "text": "Rondo (game)\n\nA rondo is a type of game, similar to keep away, that is used as a training drill in association football (soccer). In a rondo, one group of players is tasked with keeping possession of the ball while completing a series of passes, while a smaller group of players (sometimes a single player) tries to take possession.\n\nRondos take place in close proximity, with the possessing group often circled around the opposing group. Unlike other possession games, in a rondo, players occupy predetermined positions. Rondos are said to improve player decision making, coordination, team play, creativity, competitiveness, and physical conditioning. The exercise is used by major football organizations including FC Barcelona and Ajax, and has been credited with remaking the modern game.\n\nDutch player and coach Johan Cruyff, who implemented the rondo at Barcelona, described the drill: \"Everything that goes on in a match, except shooting, you can do in a rondo. The competitive aspect, fighting to make space, what to do when in possession and what to do when you haven’t got the ball, how to play ‘one touch’ soccer, how to counteract the tight marking and how to win the ball back.\" Barcelona played one of their most famous rondos prior to the 2011 UEFA Champions League Final, in which they roundly defeated Manchester United.\n\n"}
{"id": "6759499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6759499", "title": "Saint Petersburg Lyceum 239", "text": "Saint Petersburg Lyceum 239\n\nPresidential Physics and Mathematics Lyceum №239 (), is a public high school in Saint Petersburg, Russia that specializes in mathematics and physics. The school opened in 1918 and it became a specialized city school in 1961. The school is noted for its strong academic programs. It is the alma mater of numerous winners of International Mathematical Olympiads and it has produced many notable alumni. The lyceum has been named the best school in Russia in 2015, 2016, and 2017.\n\nThe school was founded in 1918. Originally, it was located in the Lobanov-Rostovsky house, also known as \"house with lions\" at the corner of Saint Isaac's Square and Admiralteysky Prospect. It was one of only handful of schools to remain open during Siege of Leningrad. In 1961 the school was granted status of city's school with specialization in physics and mathematics. In 1964 the school moved to the building on Kazansky Street 48/1, which was previously occupied by school of working youth, and in 1966 it moved again to Moika River, 108. Finally, in 1975 the school relocated to its current location, into the historic Annenschule building.\nIn 1990, the Russian Ministry of Education granted school the status of physico-mathematical lyceum and experimental laboratory for standard of education in physics, mathematics and informatics in Saint Petersburg. In 1994, the school won the George Soros grant. The US Mathematical society voted the school as one of top ten schools of former Soviet Union. The first of January 2014 the school received a status of \"\"Presidential\" Physics and Mathematics Lyceum №239\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7152596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7152596", "title": "Sham peer review", "text": "Sham peer review\n\nSham peer review or malicious peer review is a name given to the abuse of a medical peer review process to attack a doctor for personal or other non-medical reasons. The American Medical Association conducted an investigation of medical peer review in 2007 and concluded that while it is easy to allege misconduct and 15% of surveyed physicians indicated that they were aware of peer review misuse or abuse, cases of malicious peer review able to be proven through the legal system are rare.\n\nThose who maintain that sham peer review is a pervasive problem suggest that the Healthcare Quality Improvement Act (HCQIA) of 1986 allows sham reviews by granting significant immunity from liability to doctors and others who participate in peer reviews. This immunity extends to investigative activities as well as to any associated peer review hearing, whether or not it leads to a disciplinary (or other) action.\n\nThe definition of a peer review body can be broad, including not only individuals but also (for example, in Oregon), \"tissue committees, governing bodies or committees including medical staff committees of a [licensed] health care facility...or any other medical group in connection with bona fide medical research, quality assurance, utilization review, credentialing, education, training, supervision or discipline of physicians or other health care providers.\"\n\nThe California legislature framed its statutes so as to allow \"aggrieved physicians the opportunity to prove that the peer review to which they were subject was in fact carried out for improper purposes, i.e., for purposes unrelated to assuring quality care or patient safety\". These statutes allow that a peer review can be found in court to have been improper due to bad faith or malice, in which case the peer reviewers' immunities from civil liability \"fall by the wayside\".\n\nThose who practice sham peer review could draw out the process by legal maneuvering, and the fairness of a peer review that has been unduly delayed has been called into question. Many medical staff laws specify guidelines for the timeliness of peer review, in compliance with JCAHO standards.\n\nThe medical peer review system is a quasi-judicial one. It is modeled in some ways on the grand jury / petit jury system. After a complainant asks for an investigation, a review body is assembled for fact-finding. This fact-finding body, called an \"ad hoc committee\", is appointed by the medical Chief of Staff and is composed of other physician staff members chosen at the Chief of Staff's discretion. This ad hoc committee then conducts an investigation in the manner it feels is appropriate. This may include a review of the literature or an outside expert. Thus, there is no standard for impartiality and specifically no standard for due process in the \"peer-review 'process' .\"\n\nOnce the physician has been indicted (and sanctioned) he or she then has the right to request a hearing. At the hearing, counsel is allowed. A second independent panel of physicians is chosen as the petit jury, and a hearing officer is chosen. The accused physician has the option to demonstrate conflicts of interest and attempt to disqualify jurors based on reasonable suspicions of bias or conflicts of interest in a voir dire process.\n\nAlthough some medical staff bodies utilize the hospital attorney and accept hospital funds to try peer review cases, the California Medical Association discourages this practice. California has enacted legislation formally requiring the separation of the hospital and medical staff.\n\nSome physicians allege that sham peer review is often conducted in retaliation for whistleblowing, although one study in 2007 suggested that such events were rare.\n\nThose who disagree with the AMA point to the case of Nosrat Khajavi. In 1996, Khajavi, an anesthesiologist in Yuba City, California, disagreed with a surgeon over the appropriateness of cataract surgery for a patient and refused to attend during the procedure. Khajavi was subsequently terminated from his anesthesia group. He sued for wrongful termination under California Business & Professions' Code Section 2053, and the suit was allowed by the California Court of Appeals. In 2000, the court held that Khajavi was not protected from termination on the basis of advocating for what he felt was medically appropriate care. The court did not rule on the merits of the dispute.\n\nA doctor was allegedly subject to multiple hearings for the same charges, and his rights to an expedited hearing were allegedly denied while a suspension was in place. On May 15, 2001, the California Medical Association filed an amicus curiae brief to emphasize legal protections meant to prevent physicians being arbitrarily excluded from access to healthcare facilities based on mechanisms such as summary suspension without a speedy hearing. This case was decided on April 18, 2005. The court ruled that the hearing officer in the case could indeed terminate the physician's peer review hearing based on grounds that the physician refused to cooperate on procedural and other matters necessary for the good conduct of the proceedings. Thus, the physician lost his membership and privileges at the hospital. Ironically, the same physician was brought into a peer review hearing at another facility a short time later. The hearing officer in that case also terminated the proceedings, this time due to the physician's failure to turn over certain evidence for use in the hearing. The physician challenged the termination through the court system arguing, contrary to the Tenet appellate court ruling, that California's peer review statutes never intended the hearing officer in peer review hearings to have such powers of termination. The California Supreme Court reviewed the case and agreed in April 2009. The High Court ruled, among other things, that peer review hearing officers must defer the question of termination to the panel of physicians who sit in judgment of each peer review hearing.\n\nRoland Chalifoux, member of an advocacy organisation called the Semmelweis Society, had his medical license revoked in Texas in 2004 after numerous incidents including the death of a patient. The Texas State Board of Medical Examiners stated that Chalifoux's practices \"constitute such a deviation from the standard of care that revocation of his license is the only sanction that will adequately protect the public\". Chalifoux subsequently secured permission to practice in West Virginia, and alleges that the Texas board's actions constitute sham peer review.\n\nSix years after Charles Williams, MD, an anestesiologist was summarily suspended by University Medical Center of Southern Nevada, a federal jury in Las Vegas awarded Dr. Williams $8.8 million as compensation for the due process violations he experienced in his sham peer review. Before the trial, which began May 16, U.S. District Judge Philip Pro made a finding that Ellerton and UMC's medical staff had violated Williams' due process rights. That left only the question of damages for the jury. This case appears to be the highest jury verdict in the nation for sham peer review which has not been overturned.\n\nOn May 28, 2008, without any notice or opportunity to be heard, the Medical Staff of UMC suspended Dr. Chudacoff’s clinical privileges. As a result of this, UMC filed a report against Dr. Chudacoff with the National Practitioner Data Bank claiming that Dr. Chudacoff was a risk to patient safety and had inadequate skills. This led to the virtual destruction of Dr. Chudacoff’s career. Dr. Chudacoff sued. U.S. District Court Judge Edward Reed opined that, in Nevada, a physician's hospital privileges are a constitutionally protected property right. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals then affirmed that Dr. Chudacoff's due process rights were violated by UMC.\n\nThe Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-41) allows for the creation of Patient Safety Organizations, quality of care committees that can act in parallel with peer review boards. PSOs were authorized to gather information to be analyzed by hospital administrators, nurses, and physicians as a tool for systems failure analysis. They may be used by any healthcare entity except insurance companies, but must be registered with the AHRQ wing of the US Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nIn PSOs, root cause analysis and \"near misses\" are evaluated in an attempt to avert major errors. Participants in PSOs are immune from prosecution in civil, criminal, and administrative hearings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "742106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742106", "title": "Stanley Schmidt", "text": "Stanley Schmidt\n\nStanley Albert Schmidt (born March 7, 1944) is an American science fiction author. Between 1978 and 2012 he served as editor of \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" magazine.\n\nSchmidt was born in Cincinnati, Ohio and graduated from the University of Cincinnati in 1966. He then attended Case Western Reserve University, where he completed his Ph.D. in physics in 1969. After receiving his degree, he became a professor at Heidelberg College in Tiffin, Ohio, teaching physics, astronomy, and science fiction. Schmidt was editor of \"Analog Science Fiction and Fact\" magazine from 1978 to his retirement on 29 August 2012. Additionally, he has served as a member of the Board of Advisers for the National Space Society and the Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame and was Guest of Honor at BucConeer, the 1998 World Science Fiction Convention in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nHis first publication was \"A Flash of Darkness\" (\"Analog\", September 1968); his first novel was \"The Sins of the Fathers\" (serialized in \"Analog\" from November 1973 to January 1974); and his first book was \"Newton and the Quasi-Apple\" in 1975.\n\nOne of his most recent novels, \"Argonaut\" (2002), shows an alien invasion from a new angle.\n\nHe was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Professional Editor every year from 1980 through 2006 (its final year), and for the Hugo Award for Best Editor Short Form every year from 2007 (its first year) through 2013. He won the Hugo for the first time in 2013. In 2013 he was awarded a Special Committee Award for his editorial work.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49991945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49991945", "title": "Student movements in Korea", "text": "Student movements in Korea\n\nThe first Korean student movement begun in 1919, when students took part in the Sam-il Movement of 1 March to call for the end of Japanese colonization. The student movement has since then played a major part in several big political changes in Korea. Before liberation of Korea from Japanese rule in 1945, the main focus of the student movement was opposing this rule and demanding Korea's independence. After 1945, the student movement was mainly concerned with righting the wrongs in Korean government. Students rose for instance against the South Korea's government of Syngman Rhee after the rigged elections in March 1960. 1980 marked a turning point in the South Korean student movement. After the Gwangju massacre in May 1980, the student movement got a clear vision, partly based on Marxism, and had a pivotal role in the democratization of South Korean society. Student activism is still common on the 21st century South Korean political scene.\n\nThe first incentive for the student movement was the oppressive rule of the Japanese over Korea and U.S. president Woodrow Wilson's call for the 'Self determination of Nations' following World War I. The March first Movement (3.1 Movement) was a nationwide anti-Japan independence movement against Japanese colonial rule. Although the students did not lead in the major uprisings of 1 March 1919, their activities influenced the leaders of the Sam-Il movement. The protest spread from Namdaemun square in Seoul, Pyoengyang and Gwangju to rural areas through people going to the Gojong funeral (高宗, Joseon 26th king). The 3.1 Movement is the first and largest national movement that started in a colony of a country that was victorious after the first World War.\n\nStudents demonstrated and distributed a manifesto for independence in the Sunjong funeral line. Over 200 students were arrested.\n\nThe Gwangju student movement was a nationwide anti-Japan demonstration. It was founded against the discrimination towards colonial education and ethnic discrimination against Korean students in the Japanese colonial period. This movement was triggered when Japanese students harassed a female Korean student. A large scale street demonstration started in Gwangju and spread nationwide. The Gwangju movement was a large scale ethnic movement against Japanese imperialism after the 3.1 movement.\n\nOn 11 April 1960 nearly a month after the demonstrations against the rigged elections on 15 March, the body of a high school boy with a police tear-gas grenade lodged into his skull was pulled out of a river in Masan. Already antagonized by the election and how the government had handled the protests thus far, the people of Masan exploded in fury. On 18 April, several student leaders at the Korea University in Seoul mobilized a demonstration and led 3,000 students in a march to the National Assembly building. The protesters demanded a new, fair election. They didn't get a response however and the next day, 19 April, approximately 50,000 students forced their way past the police and met in front of the principal government buildings in the centre of Seoul. They had come from thirty different colleges and high schools, and represented almost all the major universities in Seoul.\n\nAlready before the elections on 15 March 1960, there was growing unrest among the Korean people. The South Korean economy was hit by a crisis because of a change in economic policy. Poverty rules among the rural areas because residents moved to the city to look for work, but still the unemployment rate was at 34.2%. Syngman Rhee tried to forcefully keep the populace in line but this only showed the undemocratic nature of his regime. The students wanted a reform of the election system, but were thwarted when Rhee rigged the elections.\n\nDuring the 1980s, student movements in Korea became an important force in the political climate of South Korea. The turning point can be placed at the Gwangju Massacre in May 1980. This massacre gave the student movement a clear goal: revolution. The 1980s student movement can also be distinguished from its predecessors by its Marxist perspective.\n\nThe reason of the movement's existence can, however, be traced through the 1970s and 1960s. The generation who led the movement have later been called the 386 Generation. These people went to college in the 1980s and have experienced the oppression of both students and labour first hand.\n\nAfter Korea's liberation by both USSR and US troops, the Rhee-regime and the Korean War, the South Korean government wanted to suppress all forms of political dissidence. All forms of political dissidence were treated as pro-communist and pro North Korea and all such dissidence was prosecuted under the National Security Law. Besides this violent oppression of political dissidence, South Korea also underwent rapid state-led capitalist reform and industrialization. This led to a depletion of workforce in agriculture and a decrease of the rural population. The working conditions in the factories were deplorable. All civil liberty restrictions were justified under the Yushin system supposedly to discipline the workforce in the face of the threat of North Korea. The strict labor laws were violently enforced.\n\nThe Yushin system let to great discontent among intellectuals and students in the 1970s and made campuses around South Korea spaces for antigovernment activism. Dissidence was practiced through small reading groups and educational activities provided by religious human rights organizations to escape governmental scrutiny.\n\nStudents also became involved in distributing critical opinions through underground press and many students who were expelled from school due to such activities were believed to go into the publishing business, where critical journalists had formed the Council for Democratic Press.\n\nThree main political camps can be distinguished in the Korean student movement of the 1980s: The National Liberation (NL), the National Democracy (ND) and the People's Democracy. Although they leaned on different political views, all facilitated several organizations and together they managed to mobilize two major demonstrations. In the so-called 'Great June Democratic Struggle' in 1987 over a million people attended an illegal street riot which led to a sweeping political change including a direct presidential election. The second protest was the 'Great Worker Struggle' which opened up the path for an independent trade union movement.\n\nThe Chun Doo Hwan administration, which lost its legitimacy and morality, oppressed a pro-democracy movement by force of arms. In this process, many citizens and students were tortured by the police force.\n\nThe torture and death of Park Jong-Chul is one of these cases. Although the police announced that this affair was simply a shock death, they later officially admitted to torturing Jong-Chul with water after an autopsy was done on the body. After part of the affair's truth was revealed, the opposition party launched a new offense against the Chun Doo Hwan administration. A memorial rally related to this affair led to the June Democracy Movement in 1987.\n\nAs demonstrations intensified, students in Yonsei University swore to take to the field and demonstrated at the university on 9 June 1987. During the protest, Yonsei student Lee Han-yeol was seriously injured when a tear gas grenade penetrated his skull and he died on 5 July. Through these affairs, citizens became distrustful towards the Chun Doo Hwan administration and democratic resistance was extended, with the June Democracy Movement established at the peak. The Chun Doo Hwan administration agreed to revise the constitution for a direct election system.\n\nPark Mi wrote that \"the student generation of the 1980s played a pivotal role in the democratization of South Korean society\".\n\nAfter the discovery of mad cow disease in the United States, a candle light vigil was held to oppose the import of beef into South Korea from the United States. In response, the South Korean government suspended the import of beef. However, on 11 April 2008 the Lee Myungbak government initiated a deal with the US to restart import of beef. This sparked criticism that the government sold the people's life and health.\n\nOn 2 May 2008, students and other citizens held another candle light vigil to show opposition to the beef import. At the first meeting, more than sixty percent of the participants were high school girls. The vigil continued for more than a hundred days and the issue finally became political. Hundreds of thousands of people participated in the rally during its peak in June and July. Finally the government mobilized the police and arrested a large number of participants. These people were put on trial for assembly and demonstration, and obstruction of ordinary traffic.\n\nIn the election pledge, the new government promised to lower university tuition, but they failed to fulfill this pledge, funding being the biggest problem. College students and related organizations demanded that the government implement its pledge, saying that tuition is too expensive and students are too busy with their part-time jobs to properly attend to their school work. Civil society and the university students demonstrated every day. The students even did the 10000 bae, 10000 bows aimed at removing 10,000 earthly desires, for a lower tuition fee. Eventually, the government did not implement the promised half-tuition fee, but they did increase the government scholarship for the low-income bracket.\n\nA number of NGOs and international organizations tried to investigate and resolve the essence of the comfort women issue for 25 years. On 28 December 2015, South Korea and Japan came to an agreement regarding 'comfort women' or abducted Korean women who were forced to work as sex-slaves for Japanese soldiers. Representatives of colleges and citizens however, declared this agreement inadequate. Eunhye Choi, president of the student body of Ewha Women's University said that: \"The voice of the victims was excluded\" and \"There wasn't an apology from Japan. It is a disgraceful agreement. Comfort women victims desired to be made clear about responsibility for forced mobilized labour at national level, formal apology, legal compensation, recording on textbook and punishment. So that the same thing and victim would not occur again in this land.\"\n\nStudent demonstrations were held at Kyonggi University at Seoul Campus, Kyunghee University, Korea University, Dongguk University, Busan College of Education, Pusan National University, Sogang University, Seoul National University, Sungshin womans university, Sejong University, Yonsei University, Ewha Womans University, Hakuk University of Foreign Studies, Hanyang University, Hongik University; the attendees included 250 national university students' Unions and approximately 25 students who are presidents of the student bodies of universities participated.\n\nActivists, including many students, staged various protests against the agreement as late as January 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "26517541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26517541", "title": "Sunshine Review", "text": "Sunshine Review\n\nSunshine Review was an American nonprofit organization that advocated for increased government transparency.\n\nSunshine Review was a website prior to becoming its own nonprofit organization. The wiki-based website was launched in July 2008 as a project of the Sam Adams Alliance. In 2010, Sunshine Review separated from the Sam Adams Alliance and launched its own organization with a mission of educating the public about proactive disclosure of government data and other open government initiatives.\n\nSunshine Review addressed several areas of transparency, including state spending, state sunshine laws, and rating local government websites on transparency. Sunshine Review worked with the National Taxpayers Union to develop information on state spending, and with the Lucy Burns Institute which runs the WikiFOIA project. Sunshine Review developed a ten-point transparency checklist to evaluate if government websites proactively and voluntarily disclose information to the public and media.\n\nOn July 9, 2013, Sunshine Review was acquired by the Lucy Burns Institute and merged into Ballotpedia.\n\nIn March 2010, the organization reported that it had evaluated over 5,000 government websites, including 3,140 counties, 805 cities, and 1,560 school districts. In March 2010, Sunshine Review launched the Sunny Awards just prior to Sunshine Week to recognize the 39 local government websites that had score an A on their checklist. By the time of the 2011 Sunny Awards, those who qualified had more than doubled, with the organization handing out 112 awards to state and local government websites. In 2012 the number of awards had increased yet again, with the organization handing out 214 awards to state government and other localities.\n\nSt. Charles Parish, Louisiana reported redoing its website partly in response to the critique on Sunshine Review. Dupage County, Illinois promised to add county contracts to its website. Champaign County, Illinois was recognized by a local newspaper for its informative website based on Sunshine Review's evaluation of the county's website.\n\nOther local government has also upgraded their websites to receive perfect grades on Sunshine Review's checklist including Tulsa County, Owasso City, Carbondale and Anderson County.\n\nSunshine Review was credited with inspiring Cook County, Illinois to post its checkbook register online.\n\nIn 2011, Sunshine Review chose 152 local governments as the focus of research on public employee salaries. The editors of Sunshine Review selected eight states with relevant political contexts (listed alphabetically):\n\n1. California<br>\n2. Florida<br>\n3. Illinois<br>\n4. Michigan<br>\n5. New Jersey<br>\n6. Pennsylvania<br>\n7. Texas<br>\n8. Wisconsin<br>\n\nWithin these states, the editors of Sunshine Review focused on the most populous cities, counties, and school districts, as well as the emergency services entities within these governments. The purpose of this selection was to develop articles on governments affecting the most citizens.\n\nThe salary information garnered from these states were a combination of existing online resources and state sunshine laws requests sent out to the governments. The report found that California had the most employees earning over 150k, with Illinois a close second.\n\nIn an effort to create a conversation between public records advocates, Sunshine Review launched FOIAchat on Twitter. The weekly conversation has included Pulitzer Prize–winning journalists, including Ryan Gabrielson, to answer questions about public records requests.\n\n"}
{"id": "10774745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10774745", "title": "Talal Abu-Ghazaleh College of Business", "text": "Talal Abu-Ghazaleh College of Business\n\nTalal Abu-Ghazaleh Graduate School of Business (TAGSB; ) was inaugurated on\nFebruary 27, 2006 in Amman, Jordan as one of the faculties of the German-Jordanian University (GJU).\nGJU is a public university that was established in 2004 through a joint co-operation between the German and the Jordanian governments.\n\nTAGSB represents the first partnership of its kind in the Arab World between the public and the private sectors aimed at bringing the expertise of Talal Abu-Ghazaleh Organization (TAG-Org) to the academic world of GJU.\n\nThe College offers MBA programs with concentrations in international accounting, management and quality management. It also offers three undergraduate programs in international accounting, management and logistics.\n\nThe College’s facilities include a state of the art Audio Visual Language Center and a number of computer laboratories including a specialized laboratory equipped with Sun computers.\nThe College’s Library houses many volumes of reference material and it is equipped with computers connected through Memberships to international libraries which are available for free for the students of the faculty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10404890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10404890", "title": "Universidad de Montevideo", "text": "Universidad de Montevideo\n\nThe Universidad de Montevideo (in English: \"University of Montevideo\") is a private (catholic, Opus Dei) university located in Montevideo, Uruguay. It opened in 1986, and obtained the right to be legally named a university in 1997.\n\nIt has seven departments:\n\nThe UM International Office is responsible for developing a coherent corporate strategy to promote Universidad de Montevideo’s international relations, global profile, and international competitiveness. It complements the academic mission of the University by providing the services and programs necessary to facilitate international education.\n\n\nhttp://www.um.edu.uy/internacional/en/programs-by-school/\n\n"}
{"id": "66167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66167", "title": "University constituency", "text": "University constituency\n\nA university constituency is a constituency, used in elections to a legislature, that represents the members of one or more universities rather than residents of a geographical area. University constituencies may or may not involve plural voting, in which some voters are eligible to vote in both a university constituency and a geographical constituency.\n\nUniversity constituencies originated in Scotland, where the representatives of the ancient universities of Scotland sat in the unicameral Estates of Parliament. When James VI inherited the English throne in 1603, the system was adopted by the Parliament of England. The system was continued in the Parliament of Great Britain (from 1707 to 1800) and the United Kingdom Parliament, until 1950. It was also used in the Parliament of Ireland, in the Kingdom of Ireland, from 1613 to 1800, and in the Irish Free State from 1922 to 1936.\n\nUniversity constituencies have also existed in Japan and in some countries of the British Empire such as India. \n\nIn the present day there are two university constituencies in Seanad Éireann, the upper house of the legislature of the republic of Ireland. Two university constituencies also exist in the Senate of Rwanda.\n\nKing James VI of Scotland, on ascending the English throne, brought to the English Parliament a practice which had been used in the Scottish Parliament of allowing the universities to elect members. The King believed that the universities were often affected by the decisions of Parliament, and ought therefore to have representation in it. After the Union the Scottish universities lost their representatives in the new Parliament of Great Britain at Westminster. \nThe University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford were therefore given two seats each from 1603. The voters were the graduates of the university, whether they were resident or not; they could vote for the University seats in addition to any other vote that they might have.\n\nAfter the Act of Union 1800 with Ireland, the University of Dublin (Trinity College), which had elected two MPs to the Parliament of Ireland since 1613, was allowed one member from 1801 and two from 1832.\n\nIn 1868, three new one-member seats were created: University of London; Glasgow and Aberdeen universities combined; and St. Andrews and Edinburgh universities combined.\n\nIn 1918, the Queen's University of Belfast and the National University of Ireland each received seats. Both these, as well as the University of Dublin, also received four seats in the devolved Stormont Parliament and the Southern Ireland Parliament respectively that were established in 1920 and first used in elections in 1921. Also in 1918, the Scottish universities switched to all electing three members jointly (see Combined Scottish Universities).\n\nIn 1918, all the other English universities (i.e. except for Cambridge, Oxford and London) were enfranchised as a single constituency with two seats, as Combined English Universities. They were Birmingham, Bristol, Durham, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, and Sheffield. Reading was added in August 1928. The University of Wales also received one seat in 1918.\n\n1918 also saw the introduction of the Single Transferable Vote for university constituencies.\n\nThe Labour government in 1930 attempted to abolish the university constituencies, but was defeated in the House of Commons. Although the members for the university constituencies were usually Conservatives, in the later years Independent candidates began to win many of the seats. In 1948, the Labour government abolished the university constituencies, with effect from the dissolution of Parliament in 1950, along with all other examples of plural voting.\n\nThe Queen's University, Belfast constituency survived in the Parliament of Northern Ireland until it was abolished in 1968 (with effect from the dissolution of Parliament in 1969) by the \"Electoral Law Act (Northern Ireland) 1968\" (1968 c. 20, Act of the Stormont Parliament). This was one of several measures by the then Northern Ireland Prime Minister Terence O'Neill to reform elements of the election franchise and deal with many long-standing civil rights grievances.\n\nThe Members for the university constituencies include many notable statesmen: William Pitt the Younger and Lord Palmerston both served as MPs for Cambridge University, and Robert Peel and William Ewart Gladstone each served as MP for Oxford University for portions of their careers. In his last years Ramsay MacDonald was MP for Combined Scottish Universities after losing his seat in the 1935 general election. Many criticised this, as he had previously sought to abolish the seats when Labour Prime Minister, and many now felt the seats were being used to provide a failed politician with a seat he could not find elsewhere.\n\nThe humorist and law reform activist A. P. Herbert sat as an Independent member for Oxford University from 1935 to 1950. He described the counting of the votes at the 1935 election in a chapter entitled \"'P.R.': Or, Standing for Oxford\" in his 1936 book \"Mild and Bitter\".\n\n There are two university constituencies in Seanad Éireann, with graduates of the University of Dublin and National University of Ireland entitled to elect three Senators each. Only graduates who are Irish citizens are entitled to vote in these elections. There is no residency requirement so those qualifying who are resident outside the State may vote. Elections are conducted under the single transferable vote and by postal ballot.\n\nThe Parliament of Ireland that existed until 1801 included the university constituency of Dublin University. This was continued in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and in 1918, the National University of Ireland was also given representation there.\n\nWhen the Irish Free State seceded from the UK in 1922, its new lower house of parliament, the Free State Dáil, had three seats each for the two university constituencies. However, under the Electoral Act 1923 voters registered in a university constituency were not permitted to also vote in a geographical one. Both university constituencies were ultimately abolished by the Constitution (Amendment No. 23) Act 1936 and the Electoral (University Constituencies) Act 1936, which took effect on the dissolution of the Dáil in 1937. These two constituencies re-emerged as part of the Seanad under the Constitution of Ireland adopted in 1937, with the first Seanad election in 1938.\n\nIn 1979, the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland permitted a redistribution of the six university seats between graduates of these named universities and any other institutes of higher education in the state. This was in anticipation of a possible dissolution of the National University of Ireland, but this did not in fact occur, and no change was made to the electorate of these constituencies.\n\nSome politicians have called for university representation to be abolished, on the ground that it is unacceptable that possession of a degree should confer greater electoral rights than those available to other voters. An example of this view can be found in the Green Party submission on Seanad reform in 2004. The Socialist Party also stand for the abolition of these constituencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "432599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432599", "title": "Uta Hagen", "text": "Uta Hagen\n\nUta Thyra Hagen (12 June 1919 – 14 January 2004) was an American actress and theatre practitioner. She originated the role of Martha in the 1962 Broadway premiere of \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\" by Edward Albee (who called her \"a profoundly truthful actress\"). Because Hagen was on the Hollywood blacklist, in part because of her association with Paul Robeson, her film opportunities dwindled and she focused her career on New York theatre.\n\nShe later became a highly influential acting teacher at New York's Herbert Berghof Studio and authored best-selling acting texts, \"Respect for Acting\", with Haskel Frankel, and \"A Challenge for the Actor\". Her most substantial contributions to theatre pedagogy were a series of \"object exercises\" that built on the work of Konstantin Stanislavski and Yevgeny Vakhtangov.\n\nShe was elected to the American Theatre Hall of Fame in 1981. She twice won the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play and received a Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in 1999.\n\nBorn in Göttingen, Germany, daughter of Thyra A. (née Leisner) and Oskar Hagen, Hagen and her family emigrated to the United States in 1924, when her father received a position at Cornell University. She was raised in Madison, Wisconsin. She appeared in productions of the University of Wisconsin High School and in summer stock productions of the Wisconsin Players. She studied acting briefly at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 1936. After spending one semester at the University of Wisconsin, where her father was the head of the department of art history, she left for New York City in 1937. Her first professional role was as Ophelia opposite Eva Le Gallienne in the title role of \"Hamlet\" in Dennis, Massachusetts in 1937.\n\nHagen was cast, early on, as Ophelia by the actress-manager Eva Le Gallienne. From there, Hagen went on to play the leading ingenue role of Nina in a Broadway production of Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\" which featured Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne. It was 1938; Hagen was just 18. This experience left an indelible mark on the young actress, as she later reflected, \"My next job was Nina in \"The Seagull\", [her Broadway bow] with the Lunts, on Broadway. That sounds incredible, too. They were an enormous influence on my life.\" She admired \"their passion for the theatre, and their discipline. It was a 24-hour-a-day affair, and I never forgot it—never!\" \"The New York Times\" critic Brooks Atkinson hailed her Nina as \"grace and aspiration incarnate\".\n\nShe played George Bernard Shaw's \"Saint Joan\" (1951) on Broadway, and Desdemona in a production which toured and played Broadway, featuring Paul Robeson as Shakespeare's Othello and her then-husband Jose Ferrer as Iago. She took over the role of Blanche DuBois in \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" for the national tour, which was directed not by Elia Kazan who had directed the Broadway production but by Harold Clurman. Hagen had had a revelatory experience when she first worked with Clurman in 1947. In \"Respect for Acting\", she credited her discoveries with Clurman as the springboard for what she would later explore with her husband Herbert Berghof: \"how to find a true technique of acting, how to make a character flow through me\". She played Blanche (on the road and on Broadway) opposite at least four different Stanley Kowalskis, including Anthony Quinn and Marlon Brando. Through interviews with her and contemporary criticism, the report is that Hagen's Blanche refocused the audience's sympathies with Blanche rather than with Stanley (where the Brando/Kazan production had leaned). Primarily noted for stage roles, Hagen won her first Tony Award in 1951 for her performance as the self-sacrificing wife Georgie in Clifford Odets' \"The Country Girl\". She won again in 1963 for originating the role of the \"I-wear-the-pants-in-this-family-because-somebody's-got-to\" Martha in Edward Albee's \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\". (An original cast recording was made of this show.) In 1981 she was elected to the American Theatre Hall of Fame and in 1999 received a \"Special Lifetime Achievement Tony Award\".\n\nHagen considered the period between 1938 and 1947 as \"the transitional years of my career, during which I lost my way and a love of acting until I finally regained it to begin a true life in the theater.\"\n\nAlthough she appeared in some movies, because of the Hollywood blacklist she had more limited output in film and on television, not making her cinematic debut until 1972. She would later comment about being blacklisted, \"that fact kept me pure.\"\n\nShe was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award as \"Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series\" for her performance on the television soap opera \"One Life to Live\".\n\nShe taught at HB Studio, a well-known New York City acting school on a cobblestone, tree-shaded street in the West Village. She began there in 1947, and married its co-founder, Herbert Berghof, on January 25, 1957. Later in her life, Hagen undertook a return to the stage, earning accolades for leading roles in \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" (1985), \"Collected Stories\", and \"Mrs. Klein\". After Berghof's death in 1990 she became the school's chairperson. \nHagen was an influential acting teacher who taught, among others, Matthew Broderick, Christine Lahti, Amanda Peet, Jason Robards, Sigourney Weaver, Katie Finneran, Liza Minnelli, Whoopi Goldberg, Jack Lemmon, Charles Nelson Reilly, Manu Tupou, Debbie Allen, Herschel Savage, George Segal, Jon Stewart, and Al Pacino. She was a voice coach to Judy Garland, teaching a German accent, for the picture \"Judgment at Nuremberg\". Garland's performance earned her an Academy Award nomination.\n\nShe also wrote \"Respect for Acting\" (1973) and \"A Challenge for the Actor\" (1991), which advocate realistic acting (as opposed to pre-determined \"formalistic\" acting). In her mode of realism, the actor puts his own psyche to use in finding identification with the role,\" trusting that a form will result. In \"Respect for Acting\", Hagen credited director Harold Clurman with a turn-around in her perspective on acting:\n\nIn 1947, I worked in a play under the direction of Harold Clurman. He opened a new world in the professional theatre for me. He took away my 'tricks'. He imposed no line readings, no gestures, no positions on the actors. At first I floundered badly because for many years I had become accustomed to using specific outer directions as the material from which to construct the mask for my character, the mask behind which I would hide throughout the performance. Mr Clurman refused to accept a mask. He demanded ME in the role. My love of acting was slowly reawakened as I began to deal with a strange new technique of evolving in the character. I was not allowed to begin with, or concern myself at any time with, a preconceived form. I was assured that a form would result from the work we were doing.\n\nHagen later \"disassociated\" herself from her first book, \"Respect for Acting\". In \"Challenge for the Actor\" she redefined a term which she had initially called \"substitution\", an esoteric technique for alchemizing elements of an actor's life with his/her character work, calling it \"transference\" instead. Though Hagen wrote that the actor should identify the character he plays with feelings and circumstances from his own life, she also makes clear thatThoughts and feelings are suspended in a vacuum unless they instigate and feed the selected actions, and it is the characters' actions which reveal the character in the play.\n\n\"Respect for Acting\" is used as a textbook for many college acting classes. She also wrote a 1976 cookbook, \"Love for Cooking\". In 2002, she was awarded the National Medal of the Arts by President George W. Bush at a ceremony held at the White House.\n\nIn 2001, Hagen agreed to be filmed giving master classes in NYC, LA, Toronto and Chicago by Karen Ludwig and Pennie du Pont, who released the video entitled \"Uta Hagen's Acting Class\", a two-part set that captures her master classes. The video has been thoroughly studied and is now taught in many acting classes.\n\nHarvey Korman talks about studying under her during his Archive of American Television interview in 2004. David Hyde Pierce worked with Hagen in the Richard Alfieri play \"Six Dance Lessons in Six Weeks\", at the Geffen Playhouse in 2001. Hyde Pierce spoke at her 2004 memorial at Manhattan's Majestic Theater.\n\nGene Wilder, Robert DeNiro, Daniel DeWeldon, Tony Goldwyn, Faye Dunaway, Laura Esterman, Carol Rosenfeld, Hal Holbrook, Hal Holden, Sandy Dennis, Griffin Dunne, Jeffrey Essmann, Delaney Hibbits, Daniel Gnad, Barbara Feldon, Tovah Feldshuh, Katie Finneran, Constance Ford, Victor Garber, Rita Gardner, Charles Nelson Reilly, Lee Grant, Charles Grodin, Eileen Heckart, Deborah Hedwall, William Hickey, Gerald Hiken, Anne Jackson, Harvey Korman, Geraldine Page, Jason Robards, Jr., Matthew Broderick, Corey Parker, Whoopi Goldberg, Amanda Peet, Jack Lemmon, Ted Brunetti, Lindsay Crouse, Fritz Weaver, Kevin Sussman, Rochelle Oliver and Unknown actor Rene Napoli.,\n\nUta Hagen was married to José Ferrer from 1938 until 1948. They had one child together, their daughter Leticia (born October 15, 1940). They divorced partly because of Hagen's long-concealed affair with Paul Robeson, their co-star in \"Othello\". Hagen married Herbert Berghof on January 25, 1957, a union that lasted until his death in 1990.\n\n\n\n\nHagen was quoted, saying, \"Awards don't really mean much.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48828948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48828948", "title": "Wikimedia Bangladesh", "text": "Wikimedia Bangladesh\n\nWikimedia Bangladesh Foundation (aka Wikimedia Bangladesh or WikimediaBD) is a registered charity established to support volunteers in Bangladesh who work on Wikimedia projects such as Wikipedia. It is a Wikimedia chapter approved by the Wikimedia Foundation which owns and hosts those projects.\n\nThe chapter has several collaborations with educational and other institutions and has organized events for the volunteers aimed at adding content to Foundation projects.\n\nIt has a temporary office in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nIt was approved by Wikimedia Board of trustees at October 3, 2011 and was the 39th local chapter to be approved by the Wikimedia Foundation board. After two and half years letter, it was registered at Joint Stock Companies & Firms – Bangladesh on June 9, 2014 under the Societies Registration Act of Bangladesh and its official name is Wikimedia Bangladesh Foundation.\n\n, the Board members comprises:\n\n\nWikimedia Bangladesh has organized or supported several volunteer efforts to contribute to Foundation projects. In 2012 it organized a is the first ever big-level, conference like outreach event in Chittagong, Bangladesh. This open event was attended by around 300 participants and a good number of schools, colleges, and universities of Chittagong. The event was named after Bangla Wikipedia to promote the biggest Bengali language Wikimedia project, Bengali Wikipedia. \n\nOn 13th November 2013, was officially launched in Bangladesh. Carolynne Schloeder, Director of Mobile Programs of Wikimedia Foundation joined press conference. Also, representatives from top three mobile operators of Bangladesh - Grameenphone, Banglalink and Robi were present at the press conference along with Wikimedia Bangladesh board members.\n\nOne such effort was the 10th anniversary celebration of Bengali Wikipedia in 2015. Bengali Wikipedia had completed ten years on January 27 in 2014. To celebrate this historic milestone a gala evening was held at Radisson Blu Dhaka Water Garden on 26 February, 2015, which event was organized by Wikimedia Bangladesh and sponsored by Telenor. Jimmy Wales, founder of the Wikimedia Foundation presented as a chief guest of the program. This event was attended by around 300 invited participants including Wikimedians and other respected guests from different universities as well as from the government. New Wikimedia contributors from seven divisions of Bangladesh also awarded in this event.\nIn the 2015, there are another celebration as the Bangla Wikipedia 10th Anniversary Conference 2015 was held on 30th May 2015 at Daffodil International University in Dhaka. About 300 Wikipedians from Bangladesh and West Bengal of India attended the conference. State Minister Zunaid Ahmed Palak of ICT Division of the People's Republic of Bangladesh was present at the conference. Eminent writer and journalist Anisul Hoque was present during the award giving ceremony.\n\nIn 2014, at the Wikimedia Conference in Berlin Stevie met with representatives from Wikimedia Bangladesh to discuss the potential of collaborating on a Bengali language project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14936648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14936648", "title": "William H. Beaver", "text": "William H. Beaver\n\nWilliam H. Beaver (born 1940) is an accounting researcher and educator. He is the Joan E. Horngren Professor of Accounting, Emeritus, at Stanford University. Early in his career, he was professor at University of Chicago.\n\nHe served as president of the American Accounting Association from 1979 to 1981.\n\nIn 1989, he was awarded the Seminal Contributions in Accounting Literature Award for his article \n\"Information Content of Annual Earnings Announcements\" published in \"Journal of Accounting Research\" in 1968.\n\nHe received the Outstanding Accounting Educator Award of the American Accounting Association in 1990.\n\nIn 1996, he was one of three inductees to the Accounting Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "16042555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16042555", "title": "Éditions Robert Laffont", "text": "Éditions Robert Laffont\n\nÉditions Robert Laffont is a book publishing company in France founded in 1941 by Robert Laffont. Its publications are distributed in almost all francophone countries, but mainly in France, Canada and in Belgium.\n\nIt is considered as one of the most important French publishing houses. Imprints belonging to Éditions Robert Laffont include éditions Julliard, les Seghers, Foreign Rights and NiL Éditions. In 1990, Éditions Robert Laffont was acquired by the French publishing group Groupe de La Cité. It is now part of Editis.\n\nÉditions Robert Laffont published the \"Quid\" encyclopedia from 1975 to 2007, but announced that the 2008 edition of the encyclopedia would not be published after annual sales had fallen from a high of 400,000 to less than 100,000, apparently because of competition from online information sources such as Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
