{"id": "14359934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14359934", "title": "1888–89 Football League", "text": "1888–89 Football League\n\nFounded in 1888, the Football League is the oldest such competition in world football. The 1888–89 Football League was the first edition of the Football League, which ran from the autumn of 1888 until the spring of 1889. The Football League was formally created and named in Manchester during a meeting on 17 April 1888.\n\nThe season began on 8 September 1888 with 12 member clubs from the Midlands and North of England: Accrington, Aston Villa, Blackburn Rovers, Bolton Wanderers, Burnley, Derby County, Everton, Notts County, Preston North End, Stoke, West Bromwich Albion and Wolverhampton Wanderers. Each club played the other twice, once at home and once away, and two points were awarded for a win and one for a draw. This point system was not agreed upon until after the season had started; the alternate proposal was one point for a win only.\n\nThe league rules stated that the bottom four clubs were obliged to retire and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) along with any other clubs wishing to become League members. Stoke, Burnley, Derby County, and Notts County were all re-elected for the 1889-90 season.\n\nMatch results are drawn from The Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation website and \"Rothmans\".\n\nTaken from \"Fußball-Weltzeitschrift\", a journal of the International Federation of Football History & Statistics.\n\nPreston North End's champion squad were known as \"The Invincibles.\"\n\nTen of the twelve teams took part in the first ever round of Championship fixtures on Saturday, 8 September 1888 and although no league table was published in any of the newspapers of the time West Bromwich Albion would have been the very first table toppers. By modern-day calculations, Derby County would have been the first ever table toppers because of their superior goal difference which was +3 after the first game. Albion won 2-0 at Stoke in front of 4,500 spectators and would have headed Preston North End, Derby County and Everton by virtue of an infinite goal average as they kept a clean sheet. Goal Average was the number of goals scored divided by the number of goals conceded. Goal Average was used to separate teams who were tied on points at that time. Preston defeated Burnley 5-2, Derby were 6-3 winners at Bolton and Everton secured the points in a 2-1 victory over Accrington. Aston Villa defender Gershom Cox was thought to have earned the distinction of scoring the first ever league goal with an unfortunate own goal in a 1-1 draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers and Fred Dewhurst opening the scoring minutes later at Preston with the first intentional goal. However the post-match reports of relative kick-off times show most games were delayed allowing for crowds to assemble. A goal by England and Bolton winger Kenny Davenport 2 minutes into the match against Derby County was scored comfortably before any other and is now regarded as the first ever football league goal.\n\nPreston North End took over from West Bromwich Albion at the top of the table in their second game on Saturday 15 September 1888 when they won 4-0 at Wolverhampton Wanderers with Archie Goodall scoring on his Preston debut. Albion also won 2-1 at Derby County but the victory gave them an inferior goal average while Everton were the only other club to secure maximum points from their opening two games. Both Blackburn Rovers and Notts County made their respective football league debuts. Rovers were held 5-5 by Accrington while Notts County lost 1-2 at Everton.\n\nA 2-6 defeat for West Bromwich Albion at Blackburn Rovers and a 1-2 defeat for Everton at Aston Villa left Preston as the only team with a 100% record after three games when they defeated Bolton Wanderers 3-1 at Deepdale. Stoke recorded their first ever league victory 3-0 over Notts County, who themselves replaced Stoke at the foot of the table. County had lost both their opening two fixtures while Bolton had yet to secure a point from three.\n\nPreston's 100% record was maintained when they won 3-2 at Derby County while second placed Aston Villa set a record victory up to that time when they defeated bottom club Notts County 9-1. Bolton recorded their first ever league victory at the fourth attempt, 6-2 against Everton.\n\nRichard Whittle marked his Preston debut with a goal in their 7-0 victory over Stoke to take their perfect start to five games. Their lead at the top was doubled to two points when Aston Villa suffered their first defeat of the season 0-2 at Everton. West Bromwich Albion moved up to second after beating Derby County 5-0 while Notts County secured their first ever point at the fourth attempt in a 3-3 draw with Blackburn Rovers yet remained at the foot of the table.\n\nWest Bromwich Albion visited Deepdale for the first ever league clash between teams occupying the top two positions at kick off. Albion trailed Preston by two points and required a six-goal victory to overtake the leaders on goal average but Preston stretched their perfect start to six games with a 3-0 victory. Aston Villa moved back into second place, three points behind Preston on the same day when they defeated Blackburn Rovers 6-1. Notts County became the last team to secure a victory when they defeated Everton 3-1 in what was their fifth game.\n\nAccrington became the first team to gain a point against Preston when they held the league leaders to a 0-0 draw in what was their seventh game of the season. Aston Villa won 3-2 at Bolton to reduce Preston's lead to two points.\n\nPreston North End extended their unbeaten start to the season to eight games when they defeated Wolverhampton Wanderers 5-2 at Deepdale with John Goodall scoring a hat-trick. Alex McKinnon earned the distinction of being the first player to score a league hat-trick for Everton in their 6-2 victory over Derby County who fell to the bottom of the league as a result of a sensational 6-1 victory for Notts County over Burnley. Blackburn Rovers also enjoyed a comprehensive 5-2 victory over Stoke to climb to sixth in the table.\n\nPreston stretched their unbeaten start to the season to nine games when Jack Gordon and John Goodall both scored hat-tricks in a 7-0 victory at Notts County. This was Goodall's second hat-trick in consecutive games and took Preston three points clear of Aston Villa who were held 1-1 at Stoke. Blackburn Rovers also scored seven goals away from home at Burnley, who did manage a goal in reply.\n\nWhen Aston Villa visited Preston North End on Saturday 10 November 1888 it was both teams tenth game of their twenty-two game programme and the second time in history that two teams had played a fixture while occupying the top two positions in the league. Villa went into the game trailing Preston by three points but a 1-1 draw maintained the status quo. Aston Villa were the only team to stop Preston North End winning every home game this season. The Villa also went on to win every home game except one which was against Preston.\n\nPreston's completed the first half of their programme unbeaten when they won 3-0 at Stoke in the only fixture played that day. The result took Preston five points clear of second placed Aston Villa who held one game in hand.\n\nPreston increased their lead to seven points with a 2-0 defeat of Accrington while Aston Villa were beaten 1-5 at Blackburn Rovers.\n\nBlackburn Rovers completed a run of five straight victories when they won 2-0 at bottom club Derby to move into third place, eight points behind leaders Preston whose unbeaten start increased to thirteen games with a 5-2 victory at Bolton.\n\nBottom club Derby travelled to unbeaten league leaders Preston having not won in nine games, the last seven of which had all ended in defeat. Jock Inglis made his Preston debut and scored in their 5-0 victory\n\nPreston North End were held to a draw for only the third time at the fifteenth attempt, 2-2 at Burnley. Their nearest challengers, Aston Villa were unable to make any impact into the seven-point deficit though as they too were held 1-1 at Accrington.\n\nPreston's 3-0 defeat of Everton took their unbeaten start to the season to sixteen games.\n\nThe top club met the bottom club for the second time in a month as Derby travelled to Preston on Boxing Day. The league leaders repeated the 5-0 score they had achieved in the reverse fixture and, with Aston Villa not playing, they established a nine-point lead having played two games more.\n\nA 1-0 victory over Blackburn Rovers on 29 December took Preston North End into the new year still unbeaten with just four games remaining. Their first game of 1889 would be at home to Notts County in a game that would see them crowned champions of the inaugural league with three games to spare provided Aston Villa also lost at Burnley. Notts County arrived at Deepdale having failed to win in seven outings, the last five of which had all ended in defeat and rarely threatened as Preston ran out 4-1 winners. Aston Villa slumped to a 0-4 defeat at Burnley which saw Preston crowned champions. The Deepdale club remained unbeaten in their final three games to complete their league programme unbeaten.\n\n"}
{"id": "43739188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43739188", "title": "1972 Olympic Men's Basketball Final", "text": "1972 Olympic Men's Basketball Final\n\nThe 1972 Olympic men's basketball final was one of the most controversial events in Olympic history and was recorded by FIBA as the first ever loss for Team USA since the sport began Olympic play in 1936. The United States team won the previous seven gold medals and was favored to win another in Munich at the 1972 Summer Olympics. The team convincingly won its first eight games of the tournament putting its overall Olympic record at 63–0 and setting up a final against the Soviet Union.\n\nThe United States and Soviet Union sporting adversary reached its peak during the Cold war. The U.S. men's team was considered a favorite in the run-up to the 1972 Games. Since the first Olympic basketball tournament at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, the Americans hadn't lost a single game, winning seven consecutive gold medals in a dominating fashion. Their record reached an unprecedented 63–0 before the final game. Since the 1952 tournament the Soviet team challenged the Americans, winning silver in 1952, 1956, 1960, 1964 and bronze in 1968. Outside of the Olympics, the Soviets had already defeated the U.S. team in the World Championship play. However, the Americans never sent their best collegiate players to that tournament.\n\nThe Olympics strictly prohibited any involvement of professional athletes at the time. The Soviet Union and other Eastern Bloc countries used that rule to their advantage, listing all their top players as soldiers or workers, which allowed them to breach the amateur rules. Western experts classified these athletes as professionals. On the other hand, leading American players were unable to play in the Olympics as they were officially professional and played in the NBA. That disadvantage hadn't prevented the Americans from winning the first seven Olympic basketball tournaments without a single defeat.\n\nThe confrontation of the Soviet Union and United States on the basketball court was deeply connected to the confrontation on the political front. Many American viewers assumed that 1972 Games were openly anti-American. There were rumors that the Communist party had bribed the officials because they wanted the USSR to win 50 gold medals at these Olympics in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe United States team was the youngest in history. American players usually participated in the Olympics once before turning pro, and the U.S. team always had new players every four years. The 1972 team didn't have a clear leader. A rising star Bill Walton declined an invitation to participate. Nevertheless, the team was heavily favored featuring such players as Doug Collins or Tommy Burleson (the tallest player among all teams).\n\nThe young American team was confronted by a veteran Soviet team, featuring stars Sergei Belov, Modestas Paulauskas, and Alexander Belov. The players had played together for more than seven years. For Gennadi Volnov it was the fourth Olympic appearance. \n\nThe basketball gold medal was the last in contention. The Soviets were clearly ahead in the medal standings, but for the political reasons they needed to win 50 golds (having 49 before the final match).\n\nBoth teams reached the final without any trouble. For the U.S. team the hardest game was against Brazil which it won 61:54. Soviets faced some problems against Puerto Rico (100:87) and Cuba in the semi-final (67:61).\n\nThe Soviets performed strongly at the beginning, winning the first half 26:21. The Soviets kept the Americans 4–8 points behind during the first half.\n\nIn the second half Soviets targeted Dwight Jones, as they considered him the leader of the U.S. team. On the 28th minute he was provoked by Mikheil Korkia and responded. Both players were sent off. The Soviets were satisfied, as they deemed Korkia less significant for them than Jones for the Americans. The next minute Alexander Belov hit Jim Brewer during the free-throw, and Brewer was unable to continue playing. According to the Americans, the referees did not notice the foul.\n\nWith 10 minutes left, the Soviets increased their lead to 10 points. After that Americans finally started to press the Soviets. It helped them to cut the deficit to 1 point. Soviet players started to feel nervous. With less than a minute left, Doug Collins stole a Soviet pass at halfcourt and was fouled hard by Zurab Sakandelidze as he drove toward the basket, being knocked down into the basket stanchion. With three seconds remaining on the game clock, Collins was awarded two free throws and sank the first to tie the score at 49. Just as Collins lifted the ball to begin his shooting motion in attempting the second free throw, the horn from the scorer's table sounded, marking the beginning of a chain of events that left the game's final three seconds mired in controversy. Although the unexpected sound of the horn caused lead referee Renato Righetto to turn away from the free throw attempt and look over to the scorer's table, play was not stopped. Collins never broke his shooting motion and continued with his second free throw, scoring to put the U.S. ahead by a score of 50:49.\n\nImmediately following Collins' second free throw, with the ball then being a \"live\" ball under the rules at the time, Soviet assistant coach Sergei Bashkin charged out of the team's designated bench area to the scorer's table. He asserted that head coach Vladimir Kondrashin had called for a time-out, which should have been awarded prior to the second free throw, but that it had not been granted to them. Since a time-out could not legally be called \"after\" the second free throw, however, the Soviet players had to immediately inbound the live ball without a pre-planned play for the final three seconds. Alzhan Zharmukhamedov inbounded the ball to Sergey Belov, who began to dribble up the sideline, but the disturbance at the scorer's table led Righetto to stop play just as Belov approached mid-court. The game clock was stopped with one second remaining.\n\nWhen play was stopped, the Soviets pressed their argument about the time-out, with Kondrashin and Bashkin claiming that it had been called as soon as Collins was fouled. By the rules at that time, a time-out could be requested either by informing the scorer's table directly, or by pressing the button of an electronic signaling device, which in turn would illuminate a light bulb at the scorer's table to alert the officials there of the coach's desire for a time-out. According to Kondrashin, he requested his time-out by pressing the button. Also by the rules at the time, upon calling a time-out prior to free throws, the coach was allowed to choose to have it awarded either before the first free throw or between the two free throws; he said he had chosen to take it between the two free throws. The game's referees, however, were not informed of a Soviet time-out request prior to giving the ball to Collins for the second free throw.\n\nWith regard to the resulting questions of whether he had ever actually made a proper time-out signal, Kondrashin claimed to have later seen a film of the events that he said showed the light bulb illuminating, as well as an official at the scorer's table nodding toward him in apparent recognition of the request. Regarding what happened next and his choice of when to take the requested time-out, Kondrashin said that the officials at the scorer's table \"wanted to give me the time-out before the first free throw; of course I refused.\" However, Hans Tenschert, the game's official scorekeeper, later blamed the Soviet coaches, claiming that they mishandled their signaling device and were therefore late in pressing it.\n\nThe unexplained horn that sounded as Collins was shooting the second free throw may have happened because the scorer's table had recognized the Soviet time-out request at the last moment and was attempting to stop the second free throw to award it. Renato William Jones, the secretary general of FIBA at the time, later asserted that the problem had indeed been a human error at the scorer's table which resulted in the time-out request being relayed too late to the on-court officials. Despite Kondrashin's and Jones' assurances, the Americans have expressed doubt that the time-out was really called. They have also argued that regardless of whether a time-out may have been missed, the ball became live upon Collins' second free throw, and as such, a technical foul should have been assessed against the Soviets because their coach left the designated bench area during live play.\n\nAccording to Righetto, after considering the Soviet arguments, the official decision was to \"deny\" the time-out. The protest later filed by the United States also mentioned that the game's official score sheet included no indication of a time-out being granted in the last three seconds. Collins has also confirmed that officially, the time-out was not awarded, which meant that Collins' second free throw counted and that neither team was to be allowed to substitute players when play resumed. Further indicators that no time-out was officially granted to the Soviets can be found in the existing television footage of the game, which includes shots of the scoreboard, both before the incident and at the game's conclusion, with the scoreboard indicating each time that Soviets had one time-out remaining. During the period between the game's interruption and resumption, the footage also does not include the sound of the scorer's table horn that typically would be used to signal both the start and the end of an officially charged time-out. However, even without being granted an official time-out, the minute-long delay to restore order on the court and determine how to proceed still gave the Soviet coaches time to confer with their players and devise a planned inbounds play.\n\nFurthermore, although Bashkin's actions had caused the game to be stopped with one second remaining on the clock, the officials decided neither to resume play from that point, nor to assess a technical foul against him for having interrupted the play. They instead wiped out the play altogether, ruling that the entire inbounds sequence would be replayed from the point immediately following the second free throw and that the game clock would thus be reset to three seconds. Jones, who had had a contentious relationship with American basketball officials for a number of years, came down from the stands to the court to contribute to the officials' ruling, and he insisted upon a complete replay of the final three seconds. According to Tenschert, Righetto had initially declared that play would resume with just one second remaining, only to be overruled by Jones. Jones later acknowledged that under the Olympic regulations, he had no authority to make rulings about a game in progress, though he maintained that resetting the clock was the correct course of action. Ed Steitz who, over the course of his basketball career, served both as the president of USA Basketball and as a member of FIBA's Technical Committee, claimed that years after the game, Jones privately confided that with the clock reset still leaving only three seconds to play, he had not expected the Soviets would actually be able to score within that time.\n\nThe players were brought back into position for a second inbounds play. However, instead of Zharmukhamedov returning to throw the inbounds pass, Kondrashin managed to substitute Ivan Edeshko into the game in Zharmukhamedov's place. Kondrashin's plan was to have Edeshko attempt a length-of-the-court pass to center Aleksandr Belov near the American basket, confident that Belov could catch any pass thrown accurately to him there and feeling that Edeshko was the player most skilled in executing such a pass. The two players had successfully run much the same play for CSKA Moscow team the preceding year to claim the Soviet Championship. Under the Olympic rules, substitutions were not to have been allowed without the granting of the time-out, but the referees resumed the game, failing to notice this issue and also not noticing that clock operator Andre Chopard was still working on getting the game clock set to three seconds. The ball was given to Edeshko to start play, with the scoreboard clock actually showing 50 seconds remaining.\n\nEdeshko was defended at the end line by American center Tom McMillen. With his frame, McMillen aggressively challenged Edeshko's inbounds attempt, making it difficult for Edeshko to pass the ball into play. Edeshko ultimately made only a short pass to teammate Modestas Paulauskas standing in the Soviet backcourt. Paulauskas then immediately relayed a pass toward Belov at the other end of the court. But the horn sounded, with the pass barely out of Paulauskas's hand. The pass then missed its mark and was uneventfully tipped off the backboard. The players, the announcers of both television broadcasts, and the majority of the spectators in the arena all interpreted the sound of the horn, combined with the sight of a failed Soviet pass, as the end of the game. People flooded the court and the U.S. team began a joyful celebration of its apparent one-point victory.\n\nWith Jones still involved in the process, the officials once again ordered the court to be cleared, the players to be brought back into position, the clock to be reset, and the final three seconds be replayed. Furious over the decision to deny the U.S. victory and allow the Soviets yet a third inbounds play, the U.S. coaches briefly considered unilaterally declaring the game to be over by pulling their team off the floor. However, head coach Hank Iba was concerned that such an action would leave the U.S. vulnerable to a Soviet appeal, which might lead to a ruling that the U.S. had forfeited the game. U.S. assistant coach John Bach reported that Jones threatened him directly with such a forfeiture should the U.S. team not return to the floor. In finally deciding to comply with the officials, Iba reportedly told his coaching staff, \"I don't want to lose this game later tonight, sitting on my butt.\"\n\nOn the third inbound try, McMillen was again assigned to use his height to challenge Edeshko's inbound pass. However, as official Artenik Arabadjian to put the ball into play, he gestured to McMillen. McMillen responded by backing several feet away from Edeshko, which gave Edeshko a clear view and unobstructed path to throw a long pass down the court. McMillen later said that Arabadjian had instructed him to back away from Edeshko. McMillen said that despite the fact that there was no rule which would require him to do so, he decided to comply, fearing that if he did not, Arabadjian might assess a technical foul against him. For his part, Arabadjian has denied that his gesture was intended to instruct McMillen to back away from Edeshko.\n\nIn any event, McMillen's repositioning left no American defender to challenge Edeshko's pass. Unlike the previous play, where he had been forced to make a short pass into the backcourt, Edeshko now had a clear line to throw the ball the length of the court toward Aleksandr Belov. Edeshko would later confirm that McMillen's backing away made it easy for him to throw the long pass downcourt. In the Soviet Union, Edeshko's throw would eventually come to be known as \"the golden pass\".\n\nThe images of the play broadcast on American television by the ABC network have led to the question of whether Edeshko might have stepped on the end line—meaning that he should have been called for a violation—as he made his pass.\n\nAs Edeshko's pass came down, Belov, Kevin Joyce and Jim Forbes all leapt for the ball near the basket. Belov caught the ball in the air, and as the three men landed, Joyce's momentum carried him out of bounds, while Forbes came down off-balance and fell to the floor beneath the basket. Belov then gathered himself and made an uncontested layup, scoring the winning points as the horn sounded for the last time. After jubilantly sprinting to the other end of the court, Belov was mobbed by his delirious teammates who dogpiled atop him in celebration. American coaches and players argued with the game officials for several minutes, but to no avail, as the Soviets were declared the victors.\n\nBy some accounts, at the end of the game, Righetto refused to sign the official scoring sheet in an act of protest. Herbert Mols, serving as the resident manager of the U.S. team, and U.S. Olympic Basketball Committee chairman MK Summers, filed a detailed protest, which was heard by FIBA's five-member jury of appeal. Mols and Summers contended that the final three seconds of the 40-minute game were consumed by the two seconds that elapsed on the first inbounds play and the one second that elapsed on the second play, thus marking the legal end of the game at that point and a United States victory by the score of 50–49. The protest asserted that allowing a third inbounds play with the clock reset to three seconds brought the total elapsed game time to 40 minutes and three seconds, in violation of FIBA rules which specified the length of a game to be 40 minutes. The jury ultimately voted down the protest and awarded the gold medals to the Soviet team. At the ensuing press conference, Mols engaged in an animated argument with the jury's chairman, Ferenc Hepp of Hungary, about the propriety of resetting the clock to three seconds. Tenschert also angrily dissented with the jury's ruling, declaring, \"Under FIBA rules, the United States won.\"\n\nIn announcing the verdict, Hepp steadfastly refused to provide the specifics of the vote count, acknowledging only that the decision was not unanimous. With three of the five jury members, including Hepp, being from Soviet-allied nations, this fueled speculation that the tally had been 3–2 and perhaps based more upon Cold War politics than upon the FIBA rulebook. This view was further suggested when jury members Rafael Lopez and Claudio Coccia — from US-allied Puerto Rico and Italy, respectively — each reportedly confirmed having voted for the United States, thus indicating that pro-Soviet votes could have come only from Hepp of Hungary, Adam Bagłajewski of Poland, and Andres Keiser of Cuba. Nonetheless, Hepp, the only one who had seen all five votes of the secret ballot, maintained his refusal to divulge the specific votes of any of the panel members, beyond later granting that his own vote was in favor of the Soviets. Despite this absence of confirmation from Hepp, it has become generally accepted and reported as fact that there indeed was a 3–2 vote that matched the political alliances of the time. Aside from potential political motivations, Mols suggested that panel members feared retribution from Jones were they to have deemed his decision regarding the game clock to be incorrect. In any event, the U.S. players did not accept the jury's verdict, voting unanimously to refuse their silver medals, and the team did not attend the medal ceremony.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the games, the United States Olympic Committee launched another appeal, this time to the executive committee of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). It received the support of Righetto, who was quoted saying the Soviet victory was \"completely irregular, and outsides the rules of the game of basketball\". Righetto criticized Jones's insistence that the clock be reset to three seconds, and offered that he felt it would have been more fair to have instead resumed play with only the one second on the clock that had been remaining when play was suspended. Righetto also asserted that the initial confusion was partially attributable to a language barrier, as he, a Brazilian, spoke Portuguese, but those working the scorer's table spoke only German. Also supporting the U.S. appeal was Chopard, who noted that in his 12 years of service as a timekeeper, Jones' order to put elapsed time back onto the clock was unprecedented. The appeal was unsuccessful, however, as in February 1973, the IOC ruled that matter fell under FIBA's jurisdiction.\n\nIn the ensuing years, USA Basketball has periodically contacted the 1972 U.S. team members on behalf of the IOC to offer them the opportunity to change their stance and accept the silver medals, possibly being granted an official ceremony awarding them. In 1992, team member Ed Ratleff said that although he didn't personally want the medal, his wife felt very strongly about his accepting it and being able to show it to their children. He said that his vote would be to accept the medal, but that he was casting his vote that way only in deference to her wishes. In a 2012 interview with Todd Jones of \"The Columbus Dispatch\", Ratleff emphasized that the desire to accept the silver medal was his wife's, not his. Since divorced, he affirmed his intention never to accept it. The ten remaining team members each told the magazine that they would vote to refuse the acceptance of silver medals.\n\nWith regard to awarding the medals, the IOC has insisted that for such an action, the entire team would need to consent unanimously. Kenny Davis reported that he had gone so far as to have a clause put into his will forbidding his wife, children or descendants from ever accepting the silver medal after his death. In 2012, Davis organized a reunion of the 12 team members—the first time they had all been together since 1972—and reported that after some discussion, the group was unanimous in its rejection of the silver medals. \"In basketball, there's one winner,\" he said. \"By the rules of that game, we won.\" The gathering included a group round-table interview of the players that was documented in the ESPN \"30 for 30\" short film \"Silver Reunion\".\n\nWhen the IOC chose to resolve the figure skating scandal at the 2002 Winter Olympics by awarding duplicate gold medals to the original silver medalists, Tom McMillen, who had gone on to become a United States congressman, appealed to the IOC, requesting that the committee revisit its 1972 decision to declare the U.S. team to be the silver medalists of the men's basketball event. The 2002 decision arose because one of the figure skating judges claimed that she had been unduly pressured by the head of one of the sport's governing bodies. The American appeal argued that Jones's unauthorized intervention in 1972 brought similar undue pressure upon the officiating crew of that game. According to McMillen, the IOC did not respond to his appeal.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the outcome of the game was heralded and the players celebrated as heroes, with comparatively little attention given to the controversy surrounding the team's victory. When asked about the subject, Soviet team members have indicated that they view their triumph as having been achieved legitimately. Edeshko and Sergei Belov, in particular, have been critical of the Americans for refusing to accept having lost, with Edeshko saying that he regrets that others may feel the Soviets' gold medals were undeserved, but that he harbors no such doubts himself. From his perspective as coach, Kondrashin acknowledged that the controversy did somewhat diminish his enjoyment of the triumph. However, he still cited the victory as the greatest accomplishment of his basketball career.\n\nThe game and its numerous controversies are part of the 2017 Russian sport drama film \"Going Vertical\" ().\n"}
{"id": "3732764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732764", "title": "1991 All-Africa Games", "text": "1991 All-Africa Games\n\nThe 5th All-Africa Games were held from September 20 to October 1, 1991, in Cairo, Egypt. Forty-three countries participated in eighteen sports.\n\nFor the first time the Games were held on a four-year cycle as planned. Egypt had hoped to use the Games to showcase the city of Cairo for a possible Olympic bid. The plan fell through after organizational difficulties once again plagued the Games. A stampede of spectators trying to get in to see the Opening Ceremonies got the Games off to a bad start. Many IOC officials and dignitaries were unable to make it into the stadium in the confusion and returned to their hotels to watch the ceremony on television.\n\nAfrican athletes had claimed seven world championships at the previous months World Athletics Championships. Only one, steeplechaser Moses Kiptanui, decided to participate in Cairo.\n\nHighly partisan crowds, which were granted free admission to the events by the Egyptian government, filled the stadiums throughout the games, cheering the home team to another placing at the top of the medals table.\n\nIt was Namibia's first participation in the world arena. The team proudly returned with four gold medals, two silver medals and seven bronze medals.\n\nThree athletes, two female and one male, won more than one event:\n\n\nIn addition, Nigeria won three of the four relay races; 4x100 metres for men and women as well as women's 4x400 metres. No new events were added.\n\n\nThe soccer tournament was transformed to a U-23 competition. It was won by Cameroon, and it was the first Games in which the host country did not win a medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "32000410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32000410", "title": "2011 Israeli border demonstrations", "text": "2011 Israeli border demonstrations\n\nThe 2011 Israeli border demonstrations started on 15 May 2011, to commemorate what the Palestinians observe as Nakba Day. Various groups of people attempted to approach or breach Israel's borders from the Palestinian-controlled territory, Lebanon, Syria, Egypt and Jordan. At least a dozen people were killed when protesters attempted to cross the border from Syria.\n\nOn 5 June 2011, there were further protests on the border with Syria and, according to Syrian authorities, 23 protesters were killed and 350 wounded by live fire from Israeli forces, though Israeli sources suggested these figures were exaggerated. Israeli army spokesman Yoav Mordechai accused Syria of creating \"a provocation\" at the border to distract attention from the Syrian government's crackdown on the Syrian uprising.\n\nInspired by the uprisings and revolutions taking place in the Arab world, Palestinians used Facebook to call for mass protests throughout the region on 15 May 2011 Nakba Day. A page calling for a \"Third Palestinian Intifada\" to begin on 15 May was started on 9 March 2011, garnered more than 350,000 \"likes\" before being taken down by Facebook managers at the end of March after complaints from the Israeli government as well as a counter group which repeatedly requested Facebook to block the page on the grounds that it incited violence. The page called for mass marches to Israel and Palestinian Authority from Egypt, Lebanon, Syria and Jordan to commemorate the Nakba and demand the right of return for all Palestinian refugees.\n\nOrganizers in Egypt had been preparing for weeks to implement the calls made on Facebook for a mass march to the border. On Saturday 14 May, thousands were planning to make their way toward the Rafah crossing with Gaza in convoys set to depart from Cairo, Alexandria, Suez, Damietta, North Sinai, Gharbiya, Beni Suef, Assiut, Qena and Sohag. However, an order from the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces to tourism companies not to send buses to the convoy organizers left them without sufficient transportation and the few buses they did manage to procure were stopped by the army. The blockage of access by Egyptian forces to the Sinai Peninsula, meant that only about 80 activists managed to reach the border with Rafah.\n\nIn Jordan, 200 Palestinian students attempted to march towards the Israeli border, but were restrained by Jordanian security forces resulting in the injury of six people. They were part of a larger group of 500 who were stopped at the Allenby Bridge. Jordanian authorities said a total of 25 people were injured, including 11 police officers. The political arm of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan, the Islamic Action Front, condemned police actions which they described as \"shocking\" stating: \"We condemn the attack, which is part of government policies to impose its will on the people, and we demand an end to such policies that have harmed Jordan's image.\"\n\nActivists had organized an event on a mountaintop in the village of Maroun al-Ras that overlooks the border with Israel. Some 30,000 people, including Palestinian refugees from various Palestinian refugee camps across Lebanon attended. After walking up the mountain to the protest site, many decided to descend the opposite side, and continued on towards the border. Lebanese Army soldiers fired into the air in a failed effort to deter them. Crossing through a minefield that was laid by Israel during the 2006 Lebanon War, they reached the border fence, and threw stones over it, chanting for their right of return. The Lebanese army intervened and began firing M16 assault rifles and tear gas, which sent protesters fleeing back up the mountain.\n\nEleven participants were killed and 100 injured by gunfire before the protesters retreated. There were conflicting reports of who shot them. Media reported that the protesters were shot by the IDF. The IDF said most of those killed were likely shot by the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) and that they had a video that established this, but would not release it on the grounds that it might cause embarrassment to the Lebanese Army.\n\nBetween 500 and 600 Palestinians marched towards the Erez Crossing, a border crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip on 15 May. Palestinian medical officials said that IDF forces fired on the group intermittently over the course of a couple of hours with tanks, machine guns, gas canisters and sound bombs, killing one demonstrator and wounding more than 80.\n\nIn the West Bank, Palestinians from a burgeoning new youth movement convened seminars on strategies for non-violent resistance to prepare for a 15 May march on the Qalandia checkpoint separating Ramallah from Jerusalem, and several of them were arrested by Palestinian Authority police in the month before the protest date. On 15 May, more than 1,000 protestors marched through the Qalandia refugee camp until they reached within 100 metres of the checkpoint separating Ramallah from Jerusalem where Israeli forces used tear gas to disperse most of them. Around 100 Palestinian protesters engaged in a standoff with Israeli forces over the next seven hours, throwing stones, as Israeli troops fired tear gas and rubber bullets. More than 80 protestors, including three paramedics, sustained injuries and twenty were hospitalized; a doctor at the hospital said the last time he saw so many casualties in one day was during the Second Intifada.\n\nIn Syria, the events were organized by phone and internet by Palestinian refugees, most of them university students independent of any political faction, in response to the call for a \"Third Palestinian Intifada\" on Facebook. Demonstrators gathered near the Israeli-Syrian ceasefire line waving Palestinian flags, and then marched toward and breached the fence, entering the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights. The first wave of demonstrators to move toward the fence were stopped by Syrian police who were later overtaken when a second group arrived. The sole Israeli patrol present was similarly overwhelmed and opened fire on the demonstrators. Four demonstrators were killed and dozens injured.\n\nThe Israeli military stated that it only fired warning shots when about 1,000 demonstrators approached the fence, and some 300 children among them, rushed toward the fence. More than a hundred managed to bypass the fence and enter the Arab Druze town of Majdal Shams. About a dozen members of Israel's security forces were injured in clashes in Majdal Shams. Two demonstrators were arrested and detained, but were returned to Syria.\n\nIn the northern Gaza Strip, dozens of demonstrators tried to march towards the Erez border crossing with Israel. Hamas police had erected checkpoints to stop protesters from reaching Israel's border and clashed with protestors, arresting around a dozen who had left a rally organized in the northern town of Beit Hanun.\n\nAt the Qalandia checkpoint in the West Bank, around 300 demonstrated in a protest that began with about 10 people forming a human chain in front of Israeli soldiers who responded with tear gas, sound bombs and rubber bullets. After they sat on the ground refusing to leave, they were forcefully removed by soldiers in riot gear and youth at the back of the crowd began throwing stones. Over the course of several hours, 120 were injured, mostly by tear gas, but also by rubber bullets, sound bombs, and a new stink spray being used for crowd control purposes. Dozens of protesters from the northern West Bank village of Deir al-Hatab also tried to march to the nearby Elon Moreh settlement.\n\nPalestinian organizers in Lebanon planned for a march along the Lebanese-Israeli border for 5 June, but following a decision by the Lebanese Army to ban all protests along the border, the \"Palestinian preparatory committee of the return march\" canceled the protest on 3 June. Palestinian refugees in Lebanon held strikes instead. Groups independent of the Return to Palestine March Committee still attempted to reach the border, and the Lebanese army stopped a group of 20 youths in the border town of Kfar Kila.\n\nOn 5 June 2011 Palestinian and Syrian protesters moved towards the Golan Heights line of control near Quneitra and Majdal Shams. According to Syrian officials, 23 people were killed and 350 people were injured by Israeli snipers as they attempted over the course of several hours to breach the barbed-wire border. Among the dead was also reportedly an unarmed 12-year-old boy. According to Israeli officials, they counted 10 dead, none of whom were killed by Israeli fire. \"The New York Times\" said that, either way, this clash produced the greatest loss of life in the Golan since the Yom Kippur War in 1973.\n\nPalestinians from the suburbs of Damascus were reportedly bused into the area and massed the border without interference from Syrian troops. The IDF described this as a provocation by President Bashar Assad, that was designed to distract world attention away from the ongoing \"slaughter of protesters\" in Syria by Assad's troops, referring to the Syrian uprising.\n\nIsraeli soldiers shouted warnings in Arabic via loudspeakers asking the Palestinians to refrain from trying to cross the frontier, adding that those who did so would endanger their lives. Israeli forces were under orders to prevent the protesters from crossing the line of control. Although no protesters managed to cross the border, the protesters thought the day was a success, as they believed that there would be outrage against Israeli troops for firing on unarmed protesters. In response the US State Department said that it was \"troubled\" by the loss of life, but noted that Israel has the right to defend its sovereign borders. In the aftermath, thousands began a sit-in near Golan, resulting in the Syrian government creating a security buffer zone for humanitarian purposes.\n\nParamedics on the Syrian side of the border asked that the IDF grant them cease-fires to clear the wounded. The army agreed to the request, but then saw activists exploiting the quiet to try to cut the border fence, bringing the truce to an end.\n\nOne of those killed, Ezzat Maswadi, was a Palestinian born in Jerusalem in 1977, who grew up in al-Eizariya. His father, who lives in al-Eizariya, could not procure a permit to travel to Damascus to attend his funeral.\n\nThe United States lobby group the Syrian Reform Party issued a statement accusing the Syrian regime of hiring Syrian protesters to storm the border to deflect attention from its own crackdown against the 2011 Syrian uprising, further claiming that protesters were paid about 1,000 dollars for protesting, with 10,000 being offered to their family if the protester was killed.\n\nSyrian State TV reported six hours live from the incident, and it is claimed that it did not report on Syrian crackdowns during that time.\n\nClashes broke out at a funeral for the dead in the Palestinian refugee camp of Yarmouk in Damascus on 6 June. Allegedly angered by the PFLP-GC's refusal to take part in the protests, thousands of mourners attacked and burnt-down its headquarters in Yarmouk. PFLP-GC members opened-fire on the crowd, killing 14 Palestinians and wounding 43.\n\n\n[[Category:Borders of Israel]"}
{"id": "57237390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57237390", "title": "2018 Kuwait–Philippine diplomatic crisis", "text": "2018 Kuwait–Philippine diplomatic crisis\n\nA diplomatic crisis began between the countries of Kuwait and the Philippines in early 2018 over concerns of the latter over the situation of Filipino migrant workers in the gulf country. \n\nThe diplomatic row was a result of the discovery of the corpse of Joanna Demafelis, a Filipino domestic worker working in Kuwait which has been inside an abandoned warehouse since November 2016. In response to the discovery, President Rodrigo Duterte ordered the suspension of deployment of Filipino migrant workers to Kuwait and organized a voluntary repatriation program for Filipinos already working in Kuwait. The move was criticized by the Kuwaiti government but both the Philippines and Kuwait went on to cooperate regarding the Demafelis murder case leading to the conviction of Demafelis' killers \"in absentia\" as well as improve the working conditions of Filipino migrant workers in Kuwait in general.\n\nHowever relations were further strained in late-April after a video emerged showing Philippine embassy officials purportedly rescuing Filipino maids from allegedly abusive employers. Kuwait called the operations as a violation of its sovereignty, expelled the Philippine Ambassador to Kuwait and recalled its own envoy in Manila. \n\nA diplomatic crisis between Kuwait and the Philippines began when the killing of Joanna Demafelis, a Filipino domestic worker working in Kuwait, came to public attention in 2018.\n\nThe Philippine Department of Labor and Employment directed its staff to stop processing deployment certificates to Filipinos seeking to work on Kuwait on January 19, 2018 following a series of death of Filipino domestic workers mentioned by President Rodrigo Duterte in a speech the day before. Duterte has requested for a total ban of Filipino worker deployment to Kuwait.\n\nThe case of Demafelis was the particular incident that resulted to the ban. Demafelis had been killed two years earlier and her death only came to public attention when her corpse was found inside a freezer in a warehouse abandoned since November 2016.\n\nIt was on February 12, 2018, that DOLE officially enforced a deployment ban of Filipino migrant workers in Kuwait. It was clarified that seafarers boarding from Kuwait, rehired workers who would be returning to the gulf country, and tourists are exempted from the ban.\n\nIn addition to the deployment ban, the Philippine government has offered Filipino workers already in Kuwait to be voluntarily repatriated.\n\nThere are around 250,000 Filipinos working in Kuwait, 65 percent of which are domestic helpers, according to the Philippine embassy in 2018.\n\nThe Kuwaiti government has criticized the migrant worker ban imposed by the Philippines in gulf country and has stated that all cases of alleged abuse against Filipino migrant workers are being handled by its laws. The National Assembly of Kuwait has discussed the situation of the Filipino migrant workers in the country.\n\nOn April 3, 2018, the Kuwait government announced that it aims to recruit more Ethiopians as domestic workers to compensate for deficit in the labor force caused by its diplomatic row with the Philippines.\n\nBy the end of March 2018, 4,000 Filipino workers has been voluntarily repatriated from Kuwait and the Philippine government is negotiating with Kuwait for the repatriation of 6,000 more workers\n\nLebanese man Nader Essam Assaf, and his Syrian wife were accused for the killing of Demafelis. With the help of Interpol the two were detained in the Syrian capital of Damascus in February 2018. The Syrian government handed custody of Assaf to Lebanon while Assaf's wife remained in Syria. On April 1, 2018, a Kuwaiti court convicted the couple of murder and sentenced them to death by hanging. They were tried \"in absentia\".\n\nRelations between the two countries became more strained when a video emerged depicting operations of Philippine embassy officials purportedly rescuing Filipino maids from alleged abusive employers. The operation conducted on April 21, 2018 was seen by Kuwait as a \"flagrant\" violation of its sovereignty. Filipino diplomats in the Philippines insist that the operations were not clandestine. Two embassy staff members were alleged to have encourage Filipino migrant workers to leave their employers.\nThe Philippine government on April 24 apologized for the incident saying it acknowledges Kuwait has its own laws while maintaining that the welfare of Filipino migrant workers are also within its interest. The following day, Kuwait declared Philippine Ambassador Renato Villa \"persona non grata\" demanding Villa to leave the gulf country within the week, and recalled its envoy in Manila for consultations. The Philippines called the move \"deeply disturbing\" and said that Kuwait \"reneged\" on an earlier agreement to cooperate. Kuwait arrested four drivers and three diplomats involved in the operation and pressed charges against them.\n\nFollowing a meeting between officials of the two countries, the four drivers involved were released and the charges against them were dropped.\n\nAuthorities from both countries have been engaged in talks to defuse diplomatic tensions. On February 14, 2018, the governments of Kuwait and the Philippines announced they come to consensus to sign an agreement on working conditions regulations. Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte has also been invited to make a state visit to Kuwait.\n\nDuterte, on March 6, laid two conditions for the labor deployment ban on Kuwait to be lifted; the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on labor policies between Kuwait and the Philippines, and that \"justice be served\" in regards to the death of Joanna Demafelis. On March 16, a draft agreement was accomplished by officials from the two countries and was expected to be signed in Kuwait in two weeks.\n\nDespite Kuwait's action on the Philippine Ambassador and its own envoy in Manila, Philippine Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano stated on April 25, that the agreement is now planned to be signed in the Philippines and the Kuwait government has followed-up regarding the agreement. Cayetano also encouraged Duterte to accept Kuwait's invitation to make a state visit to the Middle Eastern country. \n\nHowever, President Rodrigo Duterte shortly declared that the labor deployment ban as \"permanent\". Duterte also said that the signing of the labor agreement with Kuwait will not push through and that he will not make a visit to the gulf country. Harry Roque, the Philippine presidential spokesperson later contradicted Duterte's statement saying that the ban is not \"permanent\" and may still be lifted.\n\nThe memorandum of agreement (MoU) entitled \"Agreement on the Employment of Domestic Workers\" between the Philippines and Kuwait\" was signed by representatives of Kuwait and the Philippines was signed on May 11, 2018.\n\nThe two countries had a consensus on labor matters which covered all migrant domestic workers in Kuwait regardless of their nationality Under the deal, certain rights of migrant workers were recognized: They can't have their passports and other travel documents kept by their employers; right to use their mobile phones. Workers are now also entitled to be provided food, housing, clothing, and health insurance by their employers and at least a day off from work.\n\nFilipino workers can't be a transferred to another employer without the consent of the worker or approval from the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA). Contract renewals which used to be automatic now had to be subject to approval of the POEA.\n\nPhilippine Foreign Affairs Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano has announced that a new Philippine Ambassador to Kuwait will be appointed and that he will advised Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to lift the deployment ban of Filipino workers to Kuwait. Duterte on his part has stated that he is open to lifting the ban following the signing of the deal. \n\nOn May 12, 2018, a partial lifting of the ban was announced by the Philippine government allowing the deployment of \"skilled\" and \"semi-skilled\" workers to Kuwait and Philippine Presidential spokesperson Harry Roque has stated that relations between the two countries has normalized. Duterte ordered the deployment ban to be fully lifted on May 16 and on May 22 he declared that his country's relation with Kuwait is now \"okay\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49071410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49071410", "title": "Al-Husayn ibn Zikrawayh", "text": "Al-Husayn ibn Zikrawayh\n\nAl-Husayn ibn Zikrawayh, also known under his assumed name Sahib al-Shama (\"Man with the Mole\"), was a Qarmatian leader in the Syrian Desert in the early years of the 10th century.\n\nHusayn was a younger son of the Qarmatian leader Zikrawayh ibn Mihrawayh and a descendant of the seventh Isma'ili imam, Muhammad ibn Isma'il. Husayn followed his brother Yahya, who claimed to be the Mahdi and assumed the name of \"Master of the She-camel\", in establishing a base of operations at Palmyra. The brothers were successful in gaining the support of many local Bedouin—especially from the Banu Kalb, thus acquiring a potent military force.\n\nFrom there they began launching raids against the Abbasid and Tulunid provinces of Syria, with devastating effect. In 902, the Qarmatians defeated the Tulunids under Tughj ibn Juff near Raqqa, and laid siege to Damascus. The city was successfully held by Tughj, and Yahya was killed. Husayn succeeded him as leader, likewise claiming to be the Mahdi under the name of \"Abu'l-Abbas Ahmad ibn Abdallah\", and with the title of \"Sahib al-Shama\" (\"Man with the Mole/Birthmark\"). He led the Qarmatians on to ravage Homs, Hama, Ba'albek, Ma'arrat al-Numan and even their old base at Salamiyah, from where their rival Fatimid Mahdi, Abdallah, had recently departed heading west to the Maghreb.\n\nThe Qarmatians' unchecked depredations forced the Abbasid government under Caliph al-Muktafi to intervene directly to combat them; on 29 November 903, an army under Muhammad ibn Sulayman al-Katib met and inflicted a decisive defeat on Husayn's forces at the Battle of Hama. Husayn managed to escape along with his cousin al-Muddathir, his associate al-Muttawaq and a Greek page. They fled through the desert, trying to reach Kufa. They were captured at the locality of al-Daliyah on the Euphrates Road near al-Rahbah, however, and were executed publicly at Baghdad along with other Qarmatian leaders and sympathizers on 13 February 904.\n\nZikrawayh, the brothers' father, also rebelled in 906 near Kufa but was killed in the next year during an attack on the \"hajj\" caravan. With these defeats, the Qarmatian movement virtually ceased to exist in the Syrian Desert, although their counterparts in Bahrayn remained an active threat for several decades to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "21946765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21946765", "title": "American Summit", "text": "American Summit\n\nAmerican Summit or (occasionally) American Pass is a -high mountain pass through the high ground of the Fortymile River district of east-central Alaska. Today, American Summit is traversed by the Taylor Highway, which connects the town of Eagle, Alaska to the Alaska Highway and the Top of the World Highway. Before the construction of the Taylor Highway in 1953, the Valdez-Eagle Trail passed over American Summit, providing the first overland route between the Gulf of Alaska and the gold fields of central Alaska.\n\nAmerican Summit has been used for thousands of years by Athabascan natives, who saw its utility as the lowest point in the White Mountains, which lie between the coast of Alaska and the Yukon River. In 1886 and again in 1896, gold was discovered in central Alaska, sparking a series of gold rushes that attracted thousands of miners to the Yukon River area of Alaska. In 1897, to protect the growing population of the region, the U.S. Army began to establish a series of forts along the Yukon River in order to help maintain order. One of these was Fort Egbert, built in the town of Eagle. Because of its isolated location, supplies for the fort and town had to either travel along the width of Alaska via the Yukon River or through previously established transportation routes in Canada. Seeking a quick all-American route, the U.S. government ordered the construction of a road from Valdez on the Gulf of Alaska to Fort Egbert.\n\nAmerican Summit, as the lowest point in the mountains separating the two locations, was a natural site for the road, which was completed by 1901. To supply even faster communications, the U.S. military began the construction of Washington-Alaska Military Cable and Telegraph System, of which Eagle would be the northernmost point. Telegraph lines were strung over American Summit in 1902, and an undersea cable connected Valdez to Seattle in 1904. After 1909, when a radio link was established, the telegraph line was abandoned. The road remained and was improved so that by the 1920s, the first automobiles climbed American Summit. In World War II, construction of the Alaska Highway also spurred work on that highway's side roads, and a project to improve the trail was begun in 1945. By 1953, the result was the Taylor Highway, a seasonal route that still connects Eagle to the outside world over American Summit.\n\nDuring the 2004 Alaska fire season, the worst in recorded history, American Summit was the site of a wildfire, one of several hundred that ultimately consumed in Alaska that year.\n\nToday, Eagle is an alcohol-free town, and American Summit is notable as the location of the liquor store nearest to Eagle. The store has been called one of the most remote liquor stores in the world. The Yukon Quest sled dog race crosses Eagle Summit every February on its route between Fairbanks, Alaska, and Whitehorse, Yukon.\n\n"}
{"id": "25680895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25680895", "title": "Aristo (play)", "text": "Aristo (play)\n\nAristo is a 2008 play by American born playwright Martin Sherman, based on material in the book \"Nemesis\" by Peter Evans about the life of Aristotle Onassis after he met Jackie Kennedy. It premiered at the Minerva Theatre, Chichester (11 September – 11 October 2008), was directed by Nancy Meckler and starred Robert Lindsay as Onassis.\n\nThe play was poorly received by critics and did not transfer to the West End even though it had sold out in Chichester. However, critics agreed that Robert Lindsay's performance eclipsed the play.\n\n"}
{"id": "13810041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13810041", "title": "Bals des victimes", "text": "Bals des victimes\n\nThe Bals des victimes, or victims' balls, were balls that were said to have been put on by dancing societies after the Reign of Terror. To be admitted to these societies and balls, one had to be a near relative of someone who had been guillotined during the Terror. The balls came to prominence after the death of Robespierre, supposedly first being held in early 1795 and first mentioned in popular writing in 1797. While anecdotal evidence attests to the balls' occurrence, and generations of French and non-French historians described them and accepted them as fact, some recent scholarship, citing a near-total lack of primary evidence, argues that they may have been fabrications based on rumor. Historian David Bell concludes: \"The \"bals des victimes\"... never took place — they were an invention of early nineteenth-century Romantic authors.\"\n\nThe \"bals des victimes\" allegedly began as part of a rash of merrymaking and balls that broke out as the Terror came to an end. According to one source, they emerged as an idea of youths whose parents and other near relatives had gone to the guillotine, and to whom the revolution had now restored their relatives' confiscated property. Reveling in the return of fortune they established aristocratic, decadent balls open to themselves alone.\n\nDescriptions of the balls' particulars vary, but the common thread is that they were a cathartic device in which the participants acted out the emotional impact of their relatives' executions and the social upheavals occurring as a result of the revolution. Many who described the balls, often generations afterwards, nevertheless found them a scandalous idea. Whether real or imagined, the very idea of the balls reflected the post-Terror generations' morbid fascination with the horror of the guillotine and the excesses of the French Revolution with its mass executions.\n\nThose who attended the orgiastic balls reportedly wore mourning clothes or elaborate costumes with crepe armbands signifying mourning. Some accounts have both men and women wearing plain but scanty dress in the wake of the impoverishment of the Revolution, at least until the return of their fortunes at which time ball dress became highly elaborate. Others describe women, in the fashion of Merveilleuses, dressing scandalously in Greco-Roman attire, with their feet bare, in sandals, or adorned only by ribbons, a possible allusion to the fact that women often went barefoot to the guillotine. The style of dress at such a ball was known by some as the \"\"costume à la victime\".\" Women, and by some accounts men too, wore a red ribbon or string around their necks at the point of a guillotine blade's impact. Both men and women attending the balls were said to have worn or cut their hair in a fashion that bared their necks in a manner reflecting the haircut given the victim by the executioner, women often using a comb known as a cadenette to achieve this fashion. According to some, this was the origin of the feminine hairstyle known as the \"\"coiffure à la victime\" or more popularly the \"coiffure à la Titus\", or (in England) \"a la guillotine\"\". Some sources state that a woman sporting this hairstyle sometimes wore a red shawl or throat ribbon even when not attending a \"bal des victimes\".\n\nIn another macabre touch, instead of a graceful bow or bob of the head to one's dancing partner, a man who attended a \"bal des victimes\" would jerk his head sharply downwards in imitation of the moment of decapitation. Some sources suggest that women, too, adopted this salutation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2022955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022955", "title": "Black Friday (Maldives)", "text": "Black Friday (Maldives)\n\nBlack Friday (), August 13, 2004, was the crackdown by the Maldivian National Security Service (NSS) — later Maldivian National Defence Force — on a peaceful protest in the capital city of Maldives, Malé. This unplanned and unorganized demonstration was the largest such protest in the country's history. Beginning on the evening of August 12, 2004, the demonstration grew and continued until it was forcefully ended on the afternoon of August 13, 2004. Protesters initially demanding the freeing of the pro-reformists arrested on the afternoon of August 12, 2004. As the protest continued to grow, people demanded the resignation of president Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, who had been in power since 1978. What started as a peaceful demonstration ended after 22 hours, as the country's darkest day in recent history. Several people were severely injured as NSS personnel used riot batons and teargas on unarmed civilians.\n\nPursuant to the powers vested in him by Section 144 of the Constitution — and for only the second time in Maldives history — president Maumoon Abdul Gayoom declared a State of Emergency in Malé and the nearby islands a few minutes after the crackdown. Several members of the Majlis, former cabinet ministers, and many reformists were arrested. As a symbol of unity, President Gayoom pardoned all arrested following the December 26th tsunami.\n\nWhen police summoned Mr. Mohamed Yusuf, a few reform activists decided to gather near Republican Square to inquire about Yoosuf's detention. What started as a vigil at Republican Square in Malé at dusk on August 12, 2004, turned into a mass gathering of people demanding democratic reform.\n\nAs the crowd grew larger and the demands to free Mr. Yoosuf became louder, he was released that afternoon. However, the protesters demanded four other reformists detained in Dhoonidhoo detention centre be transferred to Malé. They also called for the release of Naushad Waheed, Ahmed Didi, Mohamed Zaki and Fathimath Nisreen; all of whom were, according to the Opposition movement, detained without a fair trial. By early morning August 13, 2004, a large crowd had gathered near Republican Square, the NSS building and Shaheed Hussain Adam Building. Initially the NSS and government minister Ilyas Ibrahim unsuccessfully tried to win the trust of the crowd by addressing the crowd over a megaphone. When they failed, they asked the pro-reformist MP Ibrahim Ismail (Ibra) to address the crowd in front of the NSS building. He convinced the crowd to move into nearby Republican Square. Senior MDP activist Muad Mohamed Zaki who was in the front row of the protest blocking the NSS building tried to discourage protestors from moving their position.\n\nAfter moving the crowd into Republican Square, Ibrahim Ismail addressed the crowd and assured them he would take their demands to the NSS authorities for their consideration. The crowd then gave its demands to Ibrahim Ismail, which were:\n\n\nIn the early morning, the reformists were released. They came directly from the Dhoonidhoo detention centre to Republican Square. There they addressed the crowd, criticized Maumoon Abdul Gayoom and called for his resignation. They also demanded the demonstration be reported live on state run television and radio. However, no news of the protest was transmitted yet. The crowd continued to grow and \"took (on) a life of its own\", as later described by Ibrahim Ismail in his interview on the BBC.\n\nAt around 0700 hrs Maafushi Prison was broken, thinking the government was overthrown, as the detainees got the news of the unusual protest in Malé. They headed to Malé in two Dhonis. However they were intercepted by the NSS coastguard. One of the Dhonis was sunk and the other gassed with tear gas.\n\nAs the calling for Gayoom's resignation got louder and stronger, a few pro-government people gathered to Republican Square. Some of them were sent there, according to reformists, to create violence so that use of force to disperse the crowd could be justified. Since international media was reporting the event, NSS needed a valid and justifiable reason to use force to disperse the crowd. In several occasions the pro-government crowd tried to instigate violence. However reformists ignored them and continued the demonstration, calling for the resignation.\n\nAt around 0830hrs, a person named Hussain Yoosuf stabbed two police officers. He is one of the many people who testified before the commission established to investigate the death of Evan Naseem. After this incident there was a report of fire in the nearby Huravee Building, a government office building. NSS blamed the crowd for starting the fire. In addition to this, there came a group of people who threw bottles and other objects towards the Police Headquarters. The protesters tried to stop them without any success. Police blamed reformists for these activities and portrayed them as a violent mob.\n\nAfter Friday prayers, at around 1430hrs NSS issued final warning to the crowd. However they refuse to leave the Republican square. Using the previously described commotion as an excuse, the riot police pounced on the protesters, beat them brutally with truncheons and arrested a number of protesters. Women were also beaten with truncheons and they sustained severe injuries. Ambulances were rushed to the hospital with casualties. Tear gas was used on the crowd at around 1500hrs. Senior MDP member Muad Mohamed Zaki was violently beaten by seven NSS officers with wooden planks in broad daylight as he was dragged to the NSS Headquarters. This alerted the British Parliament and European Union officials that Muad was communicating closely with while he staying in the UK representing Maldivian Democratic Party and working to free Sandhaanu political prisoners in Maldives. Thousands of protestors were blindfolded, handcuffed and beaten on that day as law and order seemed to have temporarily disappeared.\n\nPresident Maumoon Abdul Gayoom declared a State of Emergency in Malé and nearby islands, pursuant to powers vested in him by Section 144 of the Constitution, for the second time in the Maldives history. A curfew was imposed in Malé with heavy security. There were several roadblocks and check posts.\n\nAfter nearly two months, the State of Emergency was lifted due to International pressure.\nDhiraagu and Focus Infocom was forced to shut down Internet and SMS services to prevent the images, video and news of the event leaking to international media. However the events were covered and the images did leak to media despite these preventive measurements.\n\nBoth \"Television Maldives (TVM)\" and \"Voice of Maldives (VOM)\", controlled by the government, initially did not report the event as a major event. At 1400hrs news, while the protest was still going, TVM reported that \"only a small crowd had gathered and caused disharmony at the Republican Square, the people who caused this had been noted and that action will be taken against them\". At 2000hrs news, after declaring the State of Emergency, TVM downplayed the size of the protesters, and called the gathering \"illegal in every possible sense\".\n\nSpecial programs were aired on Radio and Television to cover-up the real reason behind the protest. It was portrayed by the local media to be a violent mob that attacked police building, government properties and attack police officers. One sided, biased reporting was aired for weeks on the local media.\n\nOn August 12, 2005, to mark the first anniversary of the Black Friday, members of the Maldivian Democratic Party and pro-reformists started gathering near Republican Square. Despite heavy police and NSS presence, at around 4:30pm local time Mohamed Nasheed - Chairman of the MDP - along with other several leading members of the party, decided to gather at Republican square. Security was tight around Malé due to the obvious perceptibility of such a demonstration to mark this anniversary. Two days before, on August 10, 2005, NSS announced that they will be conducting a huge training exercise in Malé for four days, starting from August 11, 2005.\n\nDespite heavy police presence, Mohamed Nasheed decided to sit right in the center of the Republican Square with his colleagues. Minutes later he was approached by a team of Maldives Police Service. They approached him and asked him to simply \"go away\" from there. Nasheed demanded to know why he was asked to leave while he is not committing anything illegal. The leader of this team responded by saying such gatherings are illegal and they will have to remove him by force if not obeyed within five minutes. To this ultimatum, Nasheed responded by saying. \"You will give us five minutes, after that, what? You will beat us to death?\" At one time Nasheed asked the police to join them, since he is not inciting violence but peacefully sitting there. Since he refused to leave the spot, the police team moved towards the flag pole few meters away.\n\nAt around 4:23pm, riot police moved into Republican Square. Soon they surrounded Mohamed Nasheed along with other members of the party, present with him. Nasheed and his colleagues still refused to stand up. Members of riot police then forcefully removed them and had them taken into the nearby NSS headquarters. This led to civil unrest in Malé and some other atolls, that lasted for three nights. The unrest was controlled and several people were arrested.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146369", "title": "Bomb threat", "text": "Bomb threat\n\nA bomb threat or bomb scare is a threat, usually verbal or written, to detonate an explosive or incendiary device to cause property damage, death or injuries, whether or not such a device actually exists. \n\nBomb threats became issues post World War II, when the United States moved forward with the decision to bomb Japan with the atomic bomb.\n\nIn 1945, President Harry S. Truman suggested that the society of the future may see a time when bombs can be constructed in secret and used without warning to effectively destroy territories and unsuspecting targets or groups of much greater size and power, such as nations and countries. On August 6, 1945, the American military successfully bombed the Japanese city of Hiroshima and brought this threat to reality. After this bombing happened without prior warning to Japan and its citizens, the American Air Force adopted a plan which enforced informing citizens and civilians when a zone was to be bombed or deemed a war zone.\n\nBomb scares are taken seriously and punished accordingly. Society has been taking all threats seriously because civilians are usually threatened by them and communities take all measures to be safe. Authorities protect these communities by assuming all bomb threats are with bad intent. Even a false bomb threat has a maximum fine of $5,000 and up to 5 years in prison. \n\nCriminal statutes typically dictate severe penalties. For example, in the United States, Massachusetts provides for penalties of up to 20 years in prison, up to $50,000 fine, and restitution for the costs of the disruption. New York law makes it an \"Class E Felony ... to issue a false bomb threat directed toward a school in New York State.\"\n\nSome statutory definitions include the threatened use, release or placement of other harmful agents, such as poisons, biological pathogens, radioactive materials, or even a dangerous weapon (e.g., aboard an airliner). Other statutes enhance the penalties for threats made against specific places or persons (e.g. government facilities or dignitaries), and the actual possession of harmful devices or agents.\n\nMany bomb threats that are not pranks are made as parts of other crimes, such as extortion, arson, or aircraft hijacking. Actual bombings for malicious destruction of property, terrorism, or murder are often perpetrated without warning.\n\nThe decision to evacuate an area or building, depending on the perceived reliability of the threat, may be made by local controlling authorities or those in charge of the targeted facility based on advice from bomb disposal experts. When a large facility is involved, it can be very difficult and time-consuming to ensure the absence of any bomb or other hazardous device or substance.\n\nBomb threats are often called in at educational institutions, sometimes by students who feel under stress due to academic pressure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25314479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25314479", "title": "Bristol International Kite Festival", "text": "Bristol International Kite Festival\n\nThe Bristol International Kite Festival, full name Bristol International Festival of Kites & Air Creations, is held annually during September in Bristol, England. It takes place at the Ashton Court estate, which is owned by Bristol City Council, although it is actually in the district of North Somerset. Entry is free but there is a charge for car parking. The festival started in 1986 and celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2011.\n\nIn 1991, the festival hosted the World Cup Sport Kite Championship. Organiser and kite designer Martin Lester was inducted into the World Kite Museum hall of fame in 1998. Funding problems have caused difficulties but have been overcome and the festival pulls in crowds of over 30,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "89767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89767", "title": "British Invasion", "text": "British Invasion\n\nThe British Invasion was a cultural phenomenon of the mid-1960s when rock and pop music acts from the United Kingdom and other aspects of British culture, became popular in the United States and significant to rising \"counterculture\" on both sides of the Atlantic. Pop and rock groups such as the Beatles, the Dave Clark Five, the Kinks, the Rolling Stones, Herman's Hermits, and the Animals were at the forefront of the \"invasion.\"\n\nThe rebellious tone and image of US rock and roll and blues musicians became popular with British youth in the late 1950s. While early commercial attempts to replicate American rock and roll mostly failed, the trad jazz–inspired skiffle craze, with its do it yourself attitude, was the starting point of several British Billboard singles.\n\nYoung British groups started to combine various British and American styles in different parts of the U.K., such as the 1962 movement in Liverpool known as Merseybeat or the \"beat boom\". That same year featured three instrumentals, each from an act with British roots, to reach the Hot 100's summit. This included the Tornados' instrumental \"Telstar\", written and produced by Joe Meek, becoming the first record by a British group to reach number one on the US Hot 100. All were preceded by British jazz musician Kenny Ball peaking at #2 on 17 March 1962 on the Hot 100 with the instrumental \"Midnight in Moscow\".\n\nSome observers have noted that US teenagers were growing tired of singles-oriented pop acts like Fabian. The Mods and Rockers, two youth \"gangs\" in mid-1960s Britain, also had an impact in British Invasion music. Bands with a Mod aesthetic became the most popular, but bands able to balance both (e.g. the Beatles) were also successful.\n\nIn October 1963, the first newspaper articles about the frenzy in England surrounding the Beatles appeared nationally in the US. The Beatles' November 4 Royal Variety Performance in front of the Queen Mother sparked music industry and media interest in the group. During November, a number of major American print outlets and two network television evening programs published and broadcast stories on the phenomenon that became known as \"Beatlemania\".\n\nOn December 10, \"CBS Evening News\" anchor Walter Cronkite, looking for something positive to report, re-ran a Beatlemania story that originally aired on the 22 November 1963 edition of the \"CBS Morning News\" with Mike Wallace but was shelved that night because of the assassination of US President John Kennedy. After seeing the report, 15-year-old Marsha Albert of Silver Spring, Maryland, wrote a letter the following day to disc jockey Carroll James at radio station WWDC asking, \"Why can't we have music like that here in America?\" On December 17 James had Miss Albert introduce \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" live on the air. WWDC's phones lit up, and Washington, D.C., area record stores were flooded with requests for a record they did not have in stock. James sent the record to other disc jockeys around the country sparking similar reaction. On December 26, Capitol Records released the record three weeks ahead of schedule. The release of the record during a time when teenagers were on vacation helped spread Beatlemania in the US. On December 29, \"The Baltimore Sun\", reflecting the dismissive view of most adults, editorialized, \"America had better take thought as to how it will deal with the invasion. Indeed a restrained 'Beatles go home' might be just the thing.\" In the next year alone, the Beatles would have 30 different listings on the Hot 100.\n\nOn January 3, 1964, \"The Jack Paar Program\" ran Beatles concert footage licensed from the BBC \"as a joke,\" but it was watched by 30 million viewers. While this piece was largely forgotten, Beatles producer George Martin has said it \"aroused the kids' curiosity\". In the middle of January 1964, \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" appeared suddenly, then vaulted to the top of nearly every top 40 music survey in the United States, launching the Fab Four's sustained, massive output. \"I Want to Hold Your Hand\" ascended to number one on the January 25, 1964 edition of \"Cash Box\" magazine (on sale January 18) and the February 1, 1964 edition of the Hot 100. On February 7, 1964, the \"CBS Evening News\" ran a story about the Beatles' United States arrival that afternoon in which the correspondent said, \"The British Invasion this time goes by the code name Beatlemania.\" Two days later, on Sunday, February 9, they appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". Nielsen Ratings estimated that 45 percent of US television viewers that night saw their appearance.\n\nAccording to Michael Ross, \"It is somewhat ironic that the biggest moment in the history of popular music was first experienced in the US as a television event.\" \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" had for some time been a \"comfortable hearth-and-slippers experience.\" Not many of the 73 million viewers watching in February 1964 would fully understand what impact the band they were watching would have.\nThe Beatles soon incited contrasting reactions and, in the process, generated more novelty records than anyone — at least 200 during 1964–1965 and more inspired by the \"Paul is dead\" rumour in 1969. Among the many reactions, favoring the hysteria were British girl group the Carefrees' \"We Love You Beatles\" (#39 on 11 April 1964) and the Patty Cakes' \"I Understand Them\", subtitled \"A Love Song to the Beatles\". Disapproving the pandemonium were American group the Four Preps' \"A Letter to the Beatles\" (#85 on 4 April 1964) and American comedian Allan Sherman's \"Pop Hates the Beatles.\"\n\nOn April 4, the Beatles held the top five positions on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart, and to date, no other act has simultaneously held even the top three. The Beatles also held the top five positions on Cash Box's singles chart that same week, with the first two positions reversed from the Hot 100. The group's massive chart success, which included at least two of their singles holding the top spot on the Hot 100 during each of the seven consecutive years starting with 1964, continued until they broke up in 1970.\n\nOne week after the Beatles entered the Hot 100 for the first time, Dusty Springfield, having launched a solo career after her participation in the Springfields, became the next British act to reach the Hot 100, peaking at number 12 with \"I Only Want to Be with You\". During the next three years, many more British acts with a chart-topping US single would appear. As 1965 approached, another wave of British Invasion artists emerged which usually consisted of groups playing in a more pop style, such as the Hollies or the Zombies or with a harder-driving, blues-based approach. On May 8, 1965, the British Commonwealth came closer than it ever had or would to a clean sweep of a weekly Hot 100's Top 10, lacking only a hit at number two instead of \"Count Me In\" by the US group Gary Lewis & the Playboys. The British Commonwealth also nearly swept the Cash Box singles chart's top ten the previous week, lacking only a hit at number six instead of \"Count Me In\". That same year, half of the 26 \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart toppers (counting the Beatles' \"I Feel Fine\" carrying over from 1964) belonged to British acts. The British trend would continue into 1966 and beyond. British Invasion acts also dominated the music charts at home in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe musical style of British Invasion artists, such as the Beatles, had been influenced by earlier US rock 'n' roll, a genre which had lost some popularity and appeal by the time of the Invasion. However, a subsequent handful of white British performers, particularly the Rolling Stones and the Animals, would appeal to a more 'outsider' demographic, essentially reviving and popularizing, for young people at least, a musical genre rooted in the blues, rhythm, and black culture, which had been largely ignored or rejected when performed by black US artists in the 1950s. Such bands were sometimes perceived by American parents and elders as rebellious and unwholesome unlike parent-friendly pop groups, such as the Beatles. The Rolling Stones would become the biggest band other than the Beatles to come out of the British Invasion, topping the Hot 100 eight times. Sometimes, there would be a clash between the two styles of the British Invasion, the polished pop acts and the grittier blues-based acts due to the expectations set by the Beatles. Eric Burdon of the Animals said \"They dressed us up in the most strange costumes. They were even gonna bring a choreographer to show us how to move on stage. I mean, it was ridiculous. It was something that was so far away from our nature and, um, yeah we were just pushed around and told, 'When you arrive in America, don't mention the [Vietnam] war! You can't talk about the war.' We felt like we were being gagged.\"\n\n\"Freakbeat\" is a term sometimes given to certain British Invasion acts closely associated with the mod scene during the Swinging London period, particularly harder-driving British blues bands of the era that often remained obscure to US listeners, and who are sometimes seen as counterparts to the garage rock bands in America. Certain acts, such as the Pretty Things and the Creation, had a certain degree of chart success in the UK and are often considered exemplars of the form. The emergence of a relatively homogeneous worldwide \"rock\" music style marking the end of the \"invasion\" occurred in 1967.\n\nOutside music, other aspects of British arts became popular in the US during this period and led US media to proclaim the United Kingdom as the center of music and fashion.\n\nThe Beatles movie \"A Hard Day's Night\" marked the group's entrance into film. \"Mary Poppins\", released on August 27, 1964, and starring English actress Julie Andrews as the titular character, became the most Oscar-winning and Oscar-nominated Disney film in history, and \"My Fair Lady\", released on December 25, 1964, starring British actress Audrey Hepburn as Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle, won eight Academy Awards.\n\nBesides the Bond series which commenced with Sean Connery as James Bond in 1962, films with a British sensibility such as the \"Angry Young Men\" genre, \"What's New Pussycat?\" and \"Alfie\" styled London Theatre. A new wave of British actors such as Peter O'Toole and Michael Caine intrigued US audiences. Four of the decade's Academy Award winners for best picture were British productions, with the epic \"Lawrence of Arabia\", starring O'Toole as British army officer T. E. Lawrence, winning seven Oscars in 1963.\n\nBritish television series such as \"Danger Man\" (renamed \"Secret Agent\" in its U.S. airings), \"The Saint\" and \"The Avengers\" began appearing on American screens, inspiring a series of American-produced espionage programs such as \"I Spy\", \"The Man From U.N.C.L.E.\", and the parody series \"Get Smart\". By 1966, spy series (both British and American) had emerged as a favorite format of American viewers, alongside Westerns and rural sitcoms. Television shows that featured uniquely American styles of music, such as \"Sing Along with Mitch\" and \"Hootenanny\", were quickly canceled and replaced with shows such as \"Shindig!\" and \"Hullabaloo\" that were better positioned to play the new British hits, and segments of the new shows were taped in England.\n\nFashion and image marked the Beatles out from their earlier US rock and roll counterparts. Their distinctive, uniform style \"challenged the clothing style of conventional US males,\" just as their music challenged the earlier conventions of the rock and roll genre. \"Mod\" fashions, such as the mini skirt from \"Swinging London\" designers such as Mary Quant and worn by early supermodels Twiggy, Jean Shrimpton and other models, were popular worldwide. John Crosby wrote, \"The English girl has an enthusiasm that American men find utterly captivating. I'd like to import the whole Chelsea girl with her 'life is fabulous' philosophy to America with instructions to bore from within.\"\n\nEven while longstanding styles remained popular, US teens and young adults started to dress \"hipper.\" The evolution of the styles of the British Invasion bands also showed in US culture, as some bands went from more clean cut to being more hippie.\n\nIn anticipation of the 2013 50th anniversary of the British Invasion, comics such as \"Nowhere Men\", which are loosely based on the events of it, gained popularity.\n\nThe British Invasion had a profound impact on popular music, internationalizing the production of rock and roll, establishing the British popular music industry as a viable centre of musical creativity, and opening the door for subsequent British performers to achieve international success. In America, the Invasion arguably spelled the end of the popularity of instrumental surf music, pre-Motown vocal , the folk revival (which adapted by evolving into folk rock), teenage tragedy songs, Nashville country music (which also faced its own crisis with the deaths of some of its biggest stars at the same time), and temporarily, the teen idols that had dominated the American charts in the late 1950s and 1960s.\n\nIt dented the careers of established R&B acts like Chubby Checker and temporarily derailed the chart success of certain surviving rock and roll acts, including Ricky Nelson, Fats Domino, the Everly Brothers and Elvis Presley (who nevertheless racked up 30 Hot 100 entries from 1964 through 1967). It prompted many existing garage rock bands to adopt a sound with a British Invasion inflection and inspired many other groups to form, creating a scene from which many major American acts of the next decade would emerge. The British Invasion also played a major part in the rise of a distinct genre of rock music and cemented the primacy of the rock group, based around guitars and drums and producing their own material as singer-songwriters.\n\nThough many of the acts associated with the invasion did not survive its end, many others would become icons of rock music. The claim that British beat bands were not radically different from US groups like the Beach Boys and damaged the careers of African-American and female artists was made about the Invasion. However, the Motown sound, exemplified by the Supremes, the Temptations, and the Four Tops, each securing its first top 20 record during the Invasion's first year of 1964 and following up with many other top 20 records, besides the constant or even accelerating output of the Miracles, Gladys Knight & the Pips, Marvin Gaye, Martha & the Vandellas, and Stevie Wonder, actually increased in popularity during that time.\n\nOther US groups also demonstrated a similar sound to the British Invasion artists and in turn highlighted how the British 'sound' was not in itself a wholly new or original one. Roger McGuinn of the Byrds, for example, acknowledged the debt that American artists owed to British musicians, such as the Searchers, but that \"they were using folk music licks that I was using anyway. So it's not that big a rip-off.\" Both the US sunshine pop group the Buckinghams and the Beatles-influenced US Tex-Mex act the Sir Douglas Quintet adopted British-sounding names, and San Francisco's Beau Brummels took their name from the same-named English dandy. Roger Miller had a 1965 hit record with a song titled \"England Swings\". Englishman Geoff Stephens (or John Carter) reciprocated the gesture a la Rudy Vallée a year later in the New Vaudeville Band's \"Winchester Cathedral\". Even as recently as 2003, \"Shanghai Knights\" made the latter two tunes memorable once again in London scenes. Anticipating the Bay City Rollers by more than a decade, two British acts that reached the Hot 100's top 20 gave a tip of the hat to America: Billy J. Kramer with the Dakotas and the Nashville Teens. The British Invasion also drew a backlash from some American bands, e.g., Paul Revere & the Raiders and New Colony Six dressed in Revolutionary War uniforms, and Gary Puckett & The Union Gap donned Civil War uniforms. Garage rock act the Barbarians' \"Are You a Boy or Are You a Girl\" contained the lyrics \"You're either a girl, or you come from Liverpool\" and \"You can dance like a female monkey, but you swim like a stone, Yeah, a Rolling Stone.\"\n\nIn Australia, the success of the Seekers and the Easybeats (the latter a band formed mostly of British emigrants) closely paralleled that of the British Invasion. The Seekers had two Hot 100 top 5 hits during the British Invasion, the #4 hit \"I'll Never Find Another You\" in May 1965 and the #2 hit \"Georgy Girl\" in February 1967. The Easybeats drew heavily on the British Invasion sound and had one hit in the United States during the British Invasion, the #16 hit \"Friday on My Mind\" in May 1967.\n\nAccording to Robert J. Thompson, director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television at Syracuse University, the British invasion pushed the counterculture into the mainstream.\n\nThe historical conclusion of British Invasion is ambiguous. American bands regained mainstream prominence in the late 1960s, and along with it, the wave of anglophilia largely faded as American culture shifted in response to the Vietnam War and the resulting civil unrest. Nevertheless, British bands retained their popularity throughout the decade and into the 1970s. Later in that decade, British bands such as Badfinger and the Sweet, and American band the Raspberries, are considered to have evolved the genre into power pop. In 1978, two rock magazines wrote cover stories analyzing power pop as a savior to both the new wave and the direct simplicity of rock. Along with the music, new wave power impacted current the fashion, such as the mod style of the Jam or the skinny ties of the burgeoning Los Angeles scene. Several power pop artists were commercially successful; most notably the Knack, whose \"My Sharona\" was the highest ranked U.S. single of 1979. Although the Knack and power pop fell out of mainstream popularity, the genre continues to have a cult following with occasional periods of modest success.\n\nA subsequent wave of British artists rose to popularity in the early 1980s as British music videos appeared in American media, leading to what is now known as the \"Second British Invasion\". Another wave of British mainstream prominence in U.S. music charts came in the mid-1990s with the brief success of Spice Girls, Oasis and Robbie Williams. At least one British act would appear somewhere on the Hot 100 every week from November 2, 1963 until April 20, 2002, originating with the debut of the Caravelles' \"You Don't Have to Be a Baby to Cry\". British acts declined in popularity throughout the 1990s, and in the April 27, 2002 issue of \"Billboard\", none of the songs on the Hot 100 were from British artists; that week, only two of the top 100 albums, those of Craig David and Ozzy Osbourne, were from British artists.\n\nThe most recent recognized movement came in the mid to late 2000s when British R&B and soul artists such as Amy Winehouse, Estelle, Joss Stone, Duffy, Natasha Bedingfield, Florence Welch, Adele, Floetry, Jessie J, Leona Lewis, Jay Sean and Taio Cruz enjoyed huge success in the U.S. charts, which led to talk of a \"Third British Invasion\" or a \"British Soul Invasion\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21812256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21812256", "title": "Burger King Pokémon container recall", "text": "Burger King Pokémon container recall\n\nDuring 1999 and 2000, Burger King and the Consumer Product Safety Commission held an effort to recall plastic containers resembling Poké Balls in the United States after it was determined they presented a suffocation hazard. It was one of the largest and most expensive recalls in history.\n\nBurger King released a set of 57 \"Pokémon\" toys measuring from two to three inches in a $22 million promotion, which were contained within round Poké Ball containers. They were included in their kids' meals, and it was to last for eight weeks from early November through December 1999. The containers ranged in color from red and white to hot pink. The containers were made by Equity Marketing, Inc. in Los Angeles. The container could be opened by pulling the two halves of it apart. Ten days into the promotion, Burger King North America President Paul Clayton ran full-page newspaper ads apologizing for shortages.\n\nOn December 11, 1999, a 13-month-old girl in Sonora, California suffocated on the container, and was found dead in her playpen with half of the ball covering her nose and mouth. Following her death, the Tuolumne County Sheriff's Department issued a warning about the containers. This was the first time a Burger King toy was blamed for a death. Two days later, the Consumer Product Safety Commission asked Burger King to recall the containers, which Burger King refused to do. They stated they were afraid to create anxiety for parents, as it was too soon to confirm whether the ball was responsible for the child's death, wanting to wait for an independent confirmation of the cause of death. The autopsy results had not been completed and released. Burger King spokesperson Kim Miller stated if it turned out the container was a choking hazard, they would pull them out. However, they did not want to end a promotion if there was no issue with it. The toys found in the containers were not a part of the proposed recall.\n\nAccording to the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the design and size of the container made it easier for people to suffocate than with a plastic egg or a cup. It is just the right size to cover the nose and the mouth, and owing to the plastic's pliability, a child may suck the air out, creating a vacuum effect and causing the ball to become stuck to the face. Russ Rader, spokesperson for the commission, stated the more the child breathes, the tighter the ball is held in place. He claimed it is a hidden danger and is something parents could not anticipate.\n\nOn December 23, an 18-month-old Kansas girl reportedly got half of the ball stuck on her nose and mouth, but her father managed to remove it before she was injured. This resulted in Burger King agreeing to a recall after no resolution had been passed between them and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. However, the CPSC told them to wait five days—December 29—to announce the recall to allow for them to get its nationwide strategy in place. Burger King agreed, but told their stores to cease distribution of the containers.\n\nHowever, when word began to leak out to the press, they released an early press release on December 27 announcing the recall, to the protest of government officials. These officials argued they needed time to distribute recall posters to more than 8,000 restaurants, a video news release, and an appearance on a national news show for CPSC chairperson Ann Brown. These were to be timed to avoid the period after the Christmas holiday when families were returning home from traveling other places for holiday celebrations and unable to watch a national newscast or were paying no attention to even radio news.\n\nBrown proceeded to do the segment as planned on NBC News's \"Today\", though changed the focus of the segment to criticize the chain for announcing the recall too soon and taking their time in determining if a recall was needed. Brown stated she was still upset by their actions a week after the incident, adding that most companies are more cooperative than this. She compared it to an incident that happened around the same time, where a Nordstrom department store's sweater's zipper was detached and became a choking hazard. The sweaters were immediately recalled.\n\nBurger King issued a statement to parents that they should take the containers away from children ages three and younger, and should be thrown away or returned to Burger King, where they could be redeemed for a free small order of French fries. As noted above, children could keep the toy that came with the ball. According to Burger King spokesperson Charles Nicolas, more than 25 million containers were included in the recall. The container did not display any warning of a choking hazard, stating it passed all choking tests and was appropriate for all ages. Burger King stated it passed all U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission requirements and all international safety standards.\n\nIn a Knight Ridder Washington Bureau article criticizing the recall process used by companies, which does not require companies to recall their products nor does it require they offer incentive to return recalled products, editor Ben Finley makes reference to this recall. Because the item was of negligible cost to purchasers of the kids' meals, many parents did not return the containers to Burger King. A $1 million recall campaign was initiated by Burger King, which included television advertisements and warnings on take-out bags and tray liners from their restaurants. More than 100,000 notices and fliers were sent to health-care providers and sites frequented by \"Pokémon\" fans. Despite this, a 4-month-old boy in Indianapolis, Indiana died of suffocation on January 25, 2000 in his crib.\n\nMarlene Gordon, senior attorney for Burger King, stated their recall efforts were as strong or stronger for their marketing campaign. Despite the campaign, less than half of the 25 million containers were returned. According to a Burger King spokesperson, Burger King had destroyed more than 22.5 million undistributed containers and more than 500,000 returned containers by December 2000. Nancy A. Nord, acting chairperson of the commission, stated while a few came back, they assumed most people threw them away. Research was done on the recall, which showed that among customers who did not respond to a recall, 60% had thrown the containers away, which is considered an effective recall.\n\nBurger King has stated its toy safety problems have not been fixed, as in a two-year period, they have recalled three toys intended for toddlers; however, they showed the distinction between this recall and the \"Pokémon\" recall, stating there were no injuries in these recalls.\n\nFollowing the recall, Burger King improved its testing procedures and hired a human-factors psychologist to evaluate toys and how children will use them.\n\nBurger King has received criticism for what was described as a slow start on their part to recall the products. Chairperson Ann Brown commented that a death should be a very grave sign there's a problem, saying that one would not want the deaths of several children before you issue a recall. After they initiated the recall campaign, Brown stated they had come around, though they had to push them to do so. In response to Burger King's abrupt announcement of the recall two days before the planned announcement, industry experts suspected this decision angered the commission and Brown, who uses high-profile media appearances to break the news of recalls. President of the Chicago-based fast food firm Technomic Ron Paul stated these kinds of things are easily forgotten after a matter of weeks, if not days. He added that most people attribute this as a toy problem, not a Burger King problem.\n\nEquity Marketing Inc. commented that the containers met or exceeded strict federal safety guidelines and underwent rigorous safety testing by an independent, third party laboratory during and after production. While federal officials complained that Burger King refused to acknowledge the severity of the problem, Kim Miller denied this. She stated when Burger King learned of the death, the company suggested issuing a parental advisory to warn parents of the container's hazards to children under three. She added that they were trying to balance the sketchy facts they had with doing what is right for the customers, and that Burger King will always be on the side of safety. She states this is why they are willing to go out of their way to be honest with their customers; however, federal regulators would not consider such an option. Marc Schoem, director of the recall division for the Consumer Product Safety Commission, stated there needed to be some kind of drastic action to get people to stop using the product, and that only alerting parents to take the ball away from children without giving them the specifics will do no good. Ellen Mogg, assistant manager of a Burger King restaurant, stated they had not received any complaints from parents about it being a hazard; she felt they had been prompt in recalling them. This in no way says that all containers were taken away or recalled and there very well are containers from this recall still out there and owned.\n\nNews of the recall was far-reaching, being covered in newspapers around the globe, including Japanese newspaper Japan Weekly Monitor. \nIn response to the recall, the Consumer Product Safety Commission announced it was examining other similar \"Pokémon\" Poké Ball toys to see if there should be a recall for them. While they had not come to a conclusion, they recommended parents keep them out of reach of children under three. The Poké Balls are made by different distributors, but look alike. One of the distributors who make retail-sold Poké Balls is Hasbro, who declined to comment on the differences between Burger King's designs; however, they stated their products are labelled for aged four and up, and meet all federal and industry standards.\n\nThe parents of the 13-month-old girl filed suit against Burger King. They won a monetary settlement from Burger King, both agreeing to keep the dollar amount confidential.\n"}
{"id": "58213748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58213748", "title": "CMLL 85th Anniversary Show", "text": "CMLL 85th Anniversary Show\n\nThe CMLL 85th Anniversary Show () is a major professional wrestling event, scripted and produced by the Mexican \"lucha libre\" wrestling company Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL; Spanish for \"World Wrestling Council\") that took place on September 14, 2018. The show took place in CMLL's home arena Arena México in Mexico City, Mexico. The show is the biggest show of the year for CMLL, considered their version of the Super Bowl or WrestleMania. The CMLL Anniversary Show is the longest running annual professional wrestling show.\n\nThe main event of the show was a tag team \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\", where Matt Taven and Volador Jr. faced Rush and Bárbaro Cavernario, in a match where both wrestlers on the losing team will be forced to be shaved bald after the match. The show features five additional matches, including a match for the CMLL World Trios Championship. \n\nThe Mexican \"Lucha libre\" (professional wrestling) company Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) started out under the name \"Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre\" (\"Mexican Wrestling Company\"; EMLL), founded by Salvador Lutteroth in 1933. Lutteroth, inspired by professional wrestling shows he had attended in Texas, decided to become a wrestling promoter and held his first show on September 21, 1933, marking what would be the beginning of organized professional wrestling in Mexico. Lutteroth would later become known as \"the father of Lucha Libre\" . A year later EMLL held the EMLL 1st Anniversary Show, starting the annual tradition of the Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre Anniversary Shows that have been held each year ever since, most commonly in September. Over the years the anniversary show would become the biggest show of the year for CMLL, akin to the Super Bowl for the National Football League (NFL) or WWE's WrestleMania event. The first anniversary show was held in Arena Modelo, which Lutteroth had bought after starting EMLL. In 1942–43 Lutteroth financed the construction of Arena Coliseo, which opened in April 1943. The EMLL 10th Anniversary Show was the first of the anniversary shows to be held in Arena Coliseo. In 1956 Lutteroth had Arena México built in the location of the original Arena Modelo, making Arena México the main venue of EMLL from that point on. Starting with the EMLL 23rd Anniversary Show, all anniversary shows except for the EMLL 46th Anniversary Show have been held in the arena that would become known as \"The Cathedral of Lucha Libre\". On occasion EMLL held more than one show labelled as their \"Anniversary\" show, such as two 33rd Anniversary Shows in 1966. Over time the anniversary show series became the oldest, longest-running annual professional wrestling show. In comparison, WWE's WrestleMania is only the fourth oldest still promoted show (CMLL's Arena Coliseo Anniversary Show and Arena México anniversary shows being second and third). EMLL was supposed to hold the EMLL 52nd Anniversary Show on September 20, 1985 but Mexico City was hit by a magnitude 8.0 earthquake. EMLL canceled the event both because of the general devastation but also over fears that Arena México might not be structurally sound after the earthquake.\n\nWhen Jim Crockett Promotions was bought by Ted Turner in 1988 EMLL became the oldest still active promotion in the world. In 1991 EMLL was rebranded as \"Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre\" and thus held the CMLL 59th Anniversary Show, the first under the new name, on September 18, 1992. Traditionally CMLL holds their major events on Friday Nights, replacing their regularly scheduled Super Viernes show.\n\nWith the partnership between Ring of Honor and CMLL this event will air live on Honor Club\n\nThe 85th Anniversary Show featured six professional wrestling matches scripted by CMLL with some wrestlers involved in scripted feuds. The wrestlers portray either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that play the part of the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they perform.\n\nChris Aiken, reviewing the show for the Wrestling Observer, noted that \"the show itself delivered on action.\" but also noted that \"The tone and vibe was never on par with some previous CMLL anniversary shows\" and concluded that it was \"an easily enjoyable card with some great matches. \"\n\n"}
{"id": "44546697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44546697", "title": "Catherine the Great (TV series)", "text": "Catherine the Great (TV series)\n\nCatherine The Great is a 2015 Russian television series starring Yuliya Snigir as Catherine the Great. It was scheduled to premiere in late 2015 on Channel One Russia.\n\nThe history of Catherine the Great from the moment she arrived in Russia as the new bride of Peter III and her ascent to the Russian throne.\n\nNearly 20 years of palace intrigues, conspiracies, the struggle for power and personal dramas.\n\nFilming was completed from December 2013 to August 2014 in Saint Petersburg and Leningrad Oblast (including Peter and Paul Fortress, Constantine Palace, Gatchina, and Lenfilm Studios).\n\nAt the moment the crew is working on scenarios of the second and third season. They will tell the life of the Empress from 1762 to 1775 and from 1775 to 1796, respectively. The second season was expected to be finished in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "650565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650565", "title": "Crufts", "text": "Crufts\n\nCrufts is an umbrella term for an international canine event held annually in the United Kingdom. Crufts is centred on a championship conformation show for dogs but also includes a large trade show of mainly dog-related goods and services and competitions in dog agility, obedience, flyball and heelwork to music.\n\nThe event is organised and hosted by the Kennel Club. It is held over four days (Thursday to Sunday) in early March at the National Exhibition Centre (NEC) in Birmingham, England. The highest profile dog show in British culture, it is the largest show of its kind in the world, as declared by \"Guinness World Records\".\n\nCrufts consists of several competitions occurring at the same time. The main competition is for the Best in Show award, which is hotly contested by dogs and their owners throughout the world.\n\nThe Kennel Club was criticised on the BBC programme \"Pedigree Dogs Exposed\" for allowing breed standards, judging standards and breeding practices which are said to compromise the health of purebred dogs. The programme led various sponsors to withdraw. The BBC dropped Crufts 2009 from their coverage after being unable to agree to terms with The Kennel Club.\n\nCrufts was named after its founder, Charles Cruft, who worked as general manager for a dog biscuit manufacturer, travelling to dog shows both in the United Kingdom and internationally, which allowed him to establish contacts and understand the need for higher standards for dog shows. In 1886, Cruft's first dog show, billed as the \"First Great Terrier Show\", had 57 classes and 600 entries. The first show named \"Crufts\"—\"Cruft's Greatest Dog Show\"—was held at the Royal Agricultural Hall, Islington, in 1891. It was the first at which all breeds were invited to compete, with around 2,000 dogs and almost 2,500 entries.\n\nWith the close of the 19th century, entries had risen to over 3,000, including royal patronage from various European countries and Russia. Due to the First World War, the show was not held between 1918 and 1920. In 1928, the Best In Show class was introduced and awarded to a Greyhound named Primley Sceptre, shown by Herbert Whitley, the founder of what is now Paignton Zoo. The show continued annually and gained popularity each year until Charles' death in 1938. His widow ran the show for four years until she felt unable to do so due to its high demands of time and effort. To ensure the future and reputation of the show (and, of course, her husband's work), she sold it to The Kennel Club in 1942.\n\nIn 1936, \"The Jubilee Show\" had 10,650 entries with the number of breeds totalling 80. The show was again interrupted by the Second World War, therefore the 1948 show was the first to be held under the new owner and was held at Olympia in London, where it continued to gain popularity with each passing year, the BBC first televising the show in 1950. The 1954 competition was cancelled due to an electricians' strike. In 1959, despite an increase in entrance fees, the show set a new world record with 13,211 entrants.\n\nThe first Obedience Championships were held in 1955, the same year working sheepdogs were first allowed to enter. In 1978, agility was introduced as a demonstration, to later become a competition in 1980, with an international invitational competition added in 2001. In 1985, the Young Kennel Club was founded to promote dog handling among a younger demographic. Flyball was introduced in 1990, and in 1992, the first Heelwork to Music demonstration was carried out by Mary Ray. A shift in the emphasis of the kennel club led to the establishment of the Discover Dogs display encouraging responsible dog ownership in 1994, and Rescue Dog Agility in 2000.\n\nBy 1979, the show had to be moved to Earls Court exhibition centre as the increasing number of entries and spectators had outgrown the capacity of its previous venue. Soon, the show had to be changed again — the duration had to be increased to three days in 1982, then again in 1987 to four days as the popularity continued to increase. Since 1991, the show has been held in the National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham, the first time the show had moved out of London since its inception.\n\nIt was also at the Centenary celebrations in 1991 that Crufts was officially recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the world's largest dog show with 22,973 dogs being exhibited in conformation classes that year. Including agility and other events, it is estimated that an average 28,000 dogs take part in Crufts each year, with an estimated 160,000 human visitors attending the show.\n\nCrufts was formerly televised by the BBC; this ended after the 2008 event (see \"Criticism\") and the 2009 event was only shown via the Internet. Since 2010 the show has been broadcast on the commercial channel More4, attracting over 4.5 million viewers.\n\nCrufts is not an open competition; dogs must have qualified throughout the previous year. There are a number of ways of qualifying for the breed classes at Crufts, but most dogs typically qualify by obtaining first, second or third place in the relevant class at a Kennel Club affiliated Championship show where Challenge Certificates are awarded, or by achieving Best in Show, Reserve Best in Show or Best Puppy in Show at a Kennel Club affiliated Open or General show. Dogs can become qualified for life upon attaining their Kennel Club Stud Book Number.\n\nDogs compete in hierarchical fashion. Dogs begin by competing against others of the same breed, split by gender, age and previous class wins. These classes include \"Veteran\", \"Special Puppy\", \"Special Junior\", \"Yearling\", \"Post Graduate\", \"Mid Limit\", \"Limit\", and \"Open\". Each is awarded once for dogs and once for bitches. The dog and bitch class winners then compete again for the Dog and Bitch Challenge Certificate (CC). The two CC winners then go head-to-head to determine the Best of Breed.\n\nAfter the best of each breed has been chosen, they then compete against the others in their Group (in the UK, there are seven Groups: Toys, Gundogs, Utility, Hounds, Working, Pastoral, and Terriers) to find the \"Best in Group\". The seven Group winners then compete to find the \"Best in Show\" and \"Reserve Best in Show\".\n\nBest in Show winners receive a replica of the solid silver Keddall Memorial Trophy, and a small cash prize of £100.\n\nThe English Cocker Spaniel is the most successful breed at Crufts, having been awarded Best In Show seven times, and the Gundog Group is the most successful group, having produced 23 Best In Show winners.\n\nAnother competition is the dog agility competition, where the dogs undergo a time trial, where they must manoeuvre, with the guidance of their owners, through, over, and around different obstacles. Any mistake made by the dog is penalised by adding time to their result. Dogs must qualify during the preceding year to compete in individual or team events, although representative handlers and dogs from England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland are invited to compete in the International competitions.\n\nNext is the obedience competition, now held in its own 'Obedience Arena'. Dogs qualify by being successful at shows during the preceding year to compete in the Dog and Bitch UK Obedience Championships, UK Inter-Regional Team Competition and the crowd's favourite, the Obedience World Cup. The prizes are awarded to the most obedient dog according to the judges after they have undergone various demanding activities, such as off lead heelwork at different paces, distance control, retrieve, send away, stays and scent discrimination.\n\nThe Flyball competition is a relay-style race. Teams of four dogs compete against each other in a knock-out competition. Each dog jumps a series of four hurdles, and then steps on a box, which is rigged to release a ball. The dog must then return the ball to the start of the course to tag one of its team, who then repeats this process until all the dogs have finished. Teams must qualify during the preceding year.\n\nCrufts also hold both freestyle and heelwork to music competitions, consisting of a choreographed routine, comprising elements of obedience, set to music.\n\nThe gamekeepers classes at Crufts focus on judging the suitability of field-bred dogs for use in the field. Dogs entered are of the gundog group, but the conformation of these dogs differs significantly from that of gundogs from show-bred bloodlines, owing to the need for function as a working gundog, and they are judged accordingly.\n\nThe Young Kennel Club (YKC) also has its own ring and stand where handlers aged between 6 and 25 compete in Agility, Obedience, Showing, Handling, Heelwork to Music, Flyball, and Grooming. Handlers and dogs must qualify in their discipline during the preceding year.\n\nCrufts hosts the World Champion Junior Handling competition in which National Best Junior Handler winners from around the globe compete for this esteemed title. Since there is a quarantine to the import of foreign dogs, many competitors must \"borrow\" dogs from gracious British show enthusiasts. The first World title competition, held in 1984, was judged by Ger Pederson. The winner of this premiere competition was US representative Tracie Laliberte who had won Westminster Kennel Club in 1983. A unique feature of this first competition was the requirement of switching dogs mid-way through the competition.\n\nCrufts drew 160,000 visitors to the NEC in 2008. While the main purpose of the event is the search for the best dog in the show, many trade stands sell a wide range of dog-related merchandise or advertise dog-related charities. There is also a section known as Discover Dogs where visitors can see almost every breed recognised by the Kennel Club on view, and discuss each breed with knowledgeable owners.\n\nCrufts also holds special shows and demonstrations, where specially trained dogs may perform in front of an audience.\n\nAs the Kennel Club also registers crossbreeds, Crufts also hosts many competitions and displays for crossbreeds. They mainly compete in agility, obedience and heelwork to music competitions. The popularity of Crufts and the interest of dog owners who do not own purebreeds convinced the Kennel Club to hold Scruffts, a show similar to Crufts for crossbreed dogs.\n\nThe Kennel Club was criticised on the BBC programme \"Pedigree Dogs Exposed\" for allowing breed standards, judging standards and breeding practices which are said to compromise the health of purebred dogs. The programme led to various sponsors such as Hill's Pet Nutrition, Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Dogs Trust to withdraw their participation in Crufts and other Kennel Club events. The RSPCA stated that it is \"concerned about the unacceptably high levels of disability, deformity and disease affecting pedigree dogs\". The BBC dropped Crufts 2009 from their coverage after being unable to agree to terms with the Kennel Club. It was reported that Pedigree Petfoods withdrew from sponsorship of Crufts following this programme, but their announcement was made well in advance of the broadcast and for financial reasons. Kennel Club Chairman Ronnie Irving said that \"If this programme teaches us anything, I hope it will teach the 'purists' in some breeds that they simply must get a move on and realise that in these politically correct and well informed days, some old attitudes are simply no longer sustainable.\" Maintaining that the majority of dogs are healthy he said that \"the roughly 90% of us who thankfully have healthy breeds must continue to guard against exaggeration and must bring pressure to bear on the laggards, otherwise we will – all of us – continue to be tarred with the same brush\".\nThe Kennel Club initially defended their practices, and criticised the programme as \"highly biased\". It also lodged a complaint to regulatory authority Ofcom claiming \"unfair treatment and editing\".\n\nThe Kennel Club have introduced new health plan, breed standards for every breed went under review, and show judges would be required to choose only healthy dogs. It has also requested regulatory powers from the Government, which would allow the club to take actions against breeders who do not comply with health standards. New breed standards for 209 dog breeds were announced in January 2009, and are to be effective immediately, but with breeders allowed until June to object. The new standards will \"not include anything that could in any way be interpreted as encouraging features that might prevent a dog from breathing, walking and seeing freely.\" \"This will help to prevent the practice of exaggeration, where features that are perceived to be desirable, such as a short muzzle or loose skin, are made more prominent by breeders, and which can have detrimental effects on a dog’s health.\"\n\nIn February 2009, the results of an independent scientific report commissioned by the RSPCA concluded that \"exaggerated physical features and inherited diseases cause serious welfare problems in pedigree dogs\". Quoting Arman (2007), the report states that \"Society and sections of the veterinary profession have become 'desensitised to the welfare issues to such an extent that the production of anatomically deformed dogs is neither shocking, nor considered abnormal'\". It also states that \"Breeding practices and efforts by breed societies and kennel clubs, to date, have been ineffective at protecting the welfare of many breeds of domestic dog\" and that \"changes in breeding and selection practices are urgently required\". The Kennel Club states that the report \"fails totally to recognise the real steady progress and advance of scientific knowledge that has already been made in the area of pedigree dog health.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14872471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14872471", "title": "Crusader invasions of Egypt", "text": "Crusader invasions of Egypt\n\nThe Crusader invasion of Egypt (1154–1169) was a series of campaigns undertaken by the Kingdom of Jerusalem to strengthen its position in the Levant by taking advantage of the weakness of Fatimid Egypt.\n\nThe war began as part of a succession crisis in the Fatimid Caliphate, which began to crumble under the pressure of Syria and the Crusader states. While one side called for help from Nur ad-Din Zangi, the other called for Crusader assistance. As the war progressed however it became a war of conquest. A number of Syrian campaigns into Egypt were stopped short of total victory by the aggressive campaigning of Amalric I of Jerusalem. Even so, the Crusaders generally speaking did not have things go their way, despite several sackings. A combined Byzantine-Crusader siege of Damietta failed in 1169, the same year that Salah ad-Din, also known as Saladin in the West, took power in Egypt as vizier. In 1171 Saladin became Sultan of Egypt and the Crusaders thereafter turned their attention to the defence of their Kingdom, which, despite being surrounded by Syria and Egypt, held for another 16 years. Later crusades tried to support the Kingdom of Jerusalem by targeting the danger that was Egypt, but to no avail.\n\nFollowing the capture of Jerusalem by the forces of the First Crusade, the Fatimids of Egypt launched regular raids into Palestine against the Crusaders, while Zengi of Syria launched a series of successful attacks against the Principality of Antioch. The Second Crusade aimed to reverse the gains of Zengi, ironically with an assault on Damascus, Zengi's most powerful rival. The siege failed and forced the Kingdom to turn south for better fortunes.\n\nThe Fatimid Caliphate in the 12th century was riddled with internal squabbles. In the 1160s, Power lay not in the hands of the Fatimid Caliph Al-'Āḍid, but in the hands of the Vizier of Egypt, Shawar. The situation in Egypt made it ripe for conquest, either by Crusaders or by the forces of Zengi's successor, Nur ad-Din Zangi. The Crusader capture of Ascalon in 1154 meant that now the Kingdom was at war in two fronts, but Egypt now had an enemy supply base close at hand.\n\nIn 1163, Shawar, the ousted Vizier of Egypt called Nur ad Din for support in reinstating him to his former position as the \"de facto\" ruler of Egypt. Nur ad-Din agreed to support his cause - an alliance between Syria and Egypt would ensure the demise of the Crusaders. Little did Nur ad-Din realize that, while his plan would succeed, it would not be he who would enjoy such unity.\n\nOn May 1164 Shawar became vizier of Egypt. He was however a mere figurehead to Nur ad-Din who had installed his general Shirkuh as ruler of Egypt. Shawar became unsatisfied with this and called upon the enemy of the Sunni Muslims, Amalric I, King of Jerusalem.\n\nAmalric had his own designs on Egypt. Therefore, when Shawar invited him into Egypt, he could not turn down such an offer. At Bilbeis, Amalric together with Shawar his Shi'ite ally, besieged Shirkuh. However, Nur ad-Din moved his forces against the Crusader state of Antioch and despite being a Byzantine protectorate (Manuel was in the Balkans) defeated and captured Bohemond III of Antioch and Raymond III of Tripoli at the Battle of Harim. Amalric immediately raced north to rescue his vassal. Even so, Shirkuh evacuated Egypt too so it was a victory for Shawar who retained Egypt.\n\nShawar's rule in Egypt did not last long before Shirkuh returned in 1166 to take back Egypt. Shawar played his Crusader card again and this time Amalric believed an open battle would be able to settle the scores. Unlike Shirkuh, Amalric had naval supremacy in the Mediterranean (though to be fair there were few Syrian ports to the Mediterranean under Nur ad-Din) and took a quick coastal route to Egypt, allowing him to link up with his ally Shawar just as Nur ad-Din's deputy Shirkuh arrived.\n\nAt Cairo, the combined Fatimid-Crusader army contemplated the next move while Shirkuh, outside the Pyramids of Giza made an unexpected move for the south. The Fatimid-Crusader army followed to the Battle of al-Babein, where fighting was bloody but inconclusive. Even so, the Crusader-Fatimids pursued the Syrians, whose plan to use Alexandria as a port came to nothing when the Crusader fleet arrived. At Alexandria, the besieged Shirkuh agreed to leave Egypt alone in return for a Crusader withdrawal. Amalric left with a favorable treaty resulting in Egyptian tribute to Jerusalem and a friendly Shawar in control.\n\nAt this point in time the Crusaders should have focused on strengthening their position against Syria, but instead Amalric was tempted by the Hospitaller Knights to attack Egypt and take it. Manuel Komnenos received the idea well. The alliance was still being finalized when Amalric launched a quick attack against Bilbeis in 1168, massacring the population. Shawar appealed to Damascus and Shirkuh returned. When faced with an imminent attack by Amalric, Shawar ordered the burning of his own capital city, Fustat. Shirkuh then fought off Amalric, killed the untrustworthy Shawar, and seized power. Shirkuh himself died two months later and his nephew, Saladin took power as regent.\n\nAt Damietta, the Byzantine-Crusader alliance materialized into a siege of the port. The Crusaders attacked late while the Byzantines, after three months abandoned the siege. In 1171, after the death of Caliph Al-Adid, Saladin proclaimed himself Sultan while the Crusaders under Amalric were forced to retreat, having lost many men due to disease and warfare. The Knights Hospitaller became bankrupt after the operation but made a quick recovery financially. The same could not be said for the Kingdom.\n\nThe Kingdom of Jerusalem, surrounded by enemies now faced inevitable defeat. Saladin could raise armies potentially numbering 100,000 or more with Syria and Egypt under his control. Nur ad-Din however was still alive until 1174 and Saladin's power in Egypt was seen as a rebellion against his vassalage to Nur ad-Din. After the latter's death Syria and Egypt remained united. A few Crusader victories, notably at Montgisard and a failed Ayyubid siege of Tiberias allowed the Crusaders to stave off defeat until 1187. By 1189 the Crusader realm had been diminished beyond all strength and relied increasingly on politically motivated and inexperienced western reinforcements.\n\nHowever, after the fall of Jerusalem in 1187, the focus of the Crusaders shifted decisively towards Egypt and less so towards the Levant. This can be seen in the Third Crusade, where Richard the Lionheart recognized the importance of Egypt and twice suggested an invasion of the region. An assault against the Levant could not succeed without the resources and manpower of Egypt, which currently gave the Islamic powers in the region a decisive advantage. The Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth and Alexandrian Crusades all had Egypt as the intended target.\n\nDuring the Fifth Crusade (1218-1221) a large force of Crusaders led by the papal legate Pelagio Galvani and John of Brienne took Damietta. The expeditionary force included French, German, Flemish and Austrian crusaders and a Frisian fleet. The army marched on Cairo but was cut off by flooding of the Nile and the campaign ended in disaster with Pelagio forced to surrender with what remained of his army.\n\nDuring the Seventh Crusade King Louis IX of France invaded Egypt (1249-1250) and after occupying Damietta he marched towards Cairo. However the forces led by Robert I, Count of Artois were defeated at the Battle of Al Mansurah and then King Louis and his main army were defeated at the Battle of Fariskur where his entire army was either killed or captured. The king suffered the humiliation of having to pay an enormous ransom for his freedom.\n\nThe temporary victories were followed by defeats, evacuations or negotiations - ultimately amounting to nothing. By 1291, Acre, the last major Crusader fortress in the Holy Land fell to the forces of the Mamluk Sultan of Egypt, and any remaining territories on the mainland were lost over the next decade.\n"}
{"id": "36481530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36481530", "title": "Disposal of a corpse with intent to obstruct or prevent a coroner's inquest", "text": "Disposal of a corpse with intent to obstruct or prevent a coroner's inquest\n\nDisposal of a corpse with intent to obstruct or prevent a coroner's inquest is an offence under the common law of England and Wales. The offence is currently very rarely charged. As a common law offence, it is tried on indictment and can be punished by an unlimited fine and/or period of imprisonment. \n\nConduct amounting to the offence includes: burying the body of anyone who has died a violent death before the coroner has had the opportunity of holding an inquest on it, and preventing the burial of a dead body or disposing of a dead body in order to prevent the holding of an inquest over it in a case where the coroner has reasonable ground for holding an inquest. \n\nIt is a separate common law offence to Prevent the lawful (and decent) burial of a body. \n"}
{"id": "21390031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21390031", "title": "Ficana", "text": "Ficana\n\nFicana was an ancient city of Latium, which figures in Roman history only on the occasion of its conquest by Ancus Marcius, who is said to have moved the inhabitants to Rome, and destroyed the city itself. (Livy i. 33; Dionys. iii. 38, where the editions have \"Fidenae\", but there is little doubt that the event referred to is the same related by Livy.) It is certain that it was never repeopled: its name is found in Pliny's list of the extinct cities of Latium (iii. 5. s. 9), and is noticed also by Festus (\"v. Puilia Saxa\") as a place no longer in existence. The latter passage, however, affords us a clue to its position; according to Marcus Antistius Labeo there cited, it was situated on the Via Ostiensis, eleven miles from Rome, and apparently immediately adjoining the Tiber, on which it had a port, at a place called by Fabius Pictor the \"Puilia Saxa\". The city's site is in the commune of Rome near Acilia, on the via Ostiense between Rome and Ostia.\n"}
{"id": "7526139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526139", "title": "Fife Opera House", "text": "Fife Opera House\n\nThe Fife Opera House is a theater in Palestine, Illinois, in Crawford County. It is on the National Register of Historic Places and has been since January 26, 1990.\n\nConstruction at the David Fife Opera House started in 1898 and finished in 1901. In the building David Fife operated a hardware store on the ground floor. Upon completion the opera house seated several hundred in a building that measured 55 X . The raked floor was filled with upholstered, red leather theater seats. Audiences were cooled by electric fans in summer and heat provided by a coal furnace kept them warm in cooler weather. The two original ceiling fixtures included a mirrored collar which reflected the glow of the high wattage light bulbs. At the west end of the building is the stage with a long opening and high, the stage is encircled by 25 lights.\n\nA handpainted rolled canvas fire curtain was hand painted by artists from Sosman and Landes, a Chicago company. The curtain art shows a Venetian canal scene. Side and top panels along the stage depict draperies surrounding a tree-lined river. Recently, other painted scenes showing gardens, waterfalls and a turn of the century scene have been discovered in the building. Fife's mother demanded that one of the building's five interior art panels, the one that featured cherubs, be painted over to cover their nakedness.\n\nIt is said the lights all over Palestine dimmed when Fife threw the switches to the lights at the opera house on opening night.\n\n"}
{"id": "10734108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10734108", "title": "Flach (submarine)", "text": "Flach (submarine)\n\nFlach was the first submarine designed and built in Chile in 1866. It was lost on a test run the same year, and is believed to lie on the seabed of the bay of Valparaiso.\n\nThe \"Flach\" was built in 1866 at the request of the Chilean government, by Karl Flach, a German engineer and immigrant. It was the fifth submarine built in the world and, along with a second submarine, was intended to defend the port of Valparaiso against attack by the Spanish navy during the Chincha Islands War. (The second vessel, built by Gustavo Heyermann, sank on its maiden voyage.)\n\nOn 3 May 1866, after several days of successful testing, Karl Flach, his son, and nine other Chilean and German crewmen boarded the submarine for another test run. During the test, the submarine sank for unknown reasons; it is now thought to lie at a depth of about 50 meters (164 feet) within the bay of Valparaiso. The \"Flach\" was located two days after the sinking by seamen from the English frigate HMS \"Leander\", and a diver named John Wallace was able to see and draw the wreck, which was buried nose-down in the bay's sediment. According to some contemporary sources, an attempt to raise the submarine failed because of its burial.\n\nThe Chilean Navy, with support from others, has searched for the submarine and intends to raise it after finding it, even though there is as yet no agreement on what to do with the remains of the eleven bodies thought to be inside. A finding of an object that appears to be the \"Flach\" was reported in \"El Mercurio de Valparaiso\" on 25 April 2007. However, the finding has not been confirmed, because, as of August 2007, sediment still has to be cleared away from the object.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58051679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58051679", "title": "German entry into World War I", "text": "German entry into World War I\n\nGermany entered into World War I on August 1, 1914, when it declared war on Russia. In accordance with its war plan, it ignored Russia and moved first against France--declaring war on August 3 and sending its main armies through Belgium to attack Paris from the north. The invasion of Belgium caused Britain to declare war on Germany on August 4. The main parties were now at war. Soon Turkey joined on Germany's side. Italy was neutral in 1914 and in 1915 switched to the Allied side.\n\nHistorians have vigorously debated Germany's role. One line of interpretation, promoted by German historian Fritz Fischer in the 1960s argues that Germany had long desired to dominate Europe politically and economically, and seized the opportunity that unexpectedly opened in July 1914, making her guilty of starting the war. At the opposite end of the moral spectrum, many historians have argued that the war was inadvertent, caused by a series of complex accidents that overburdened the long-standing alliance system with its lock-step mobilization system that no one could control. A third approach, especially important in recent years, is that Germany saw itself surrounded by increasingly powerful enemies--Russia, France and Britain--who would eventually crush it unless Germany acted defensively with the preemptive strike.\n\nAs the war started, Germany stood behind its ally Austria-Hungary in a confrontation with Serbia, but Serbia was under the protection of Russia, which was allied to France. Germany was the leader of the Central Powers, which included Austria-Hungary, the Ottoman Empire, and later Bulgaria; arrayed against them were the Allies, consisting chiefly of Russia, France, Britain, and in 1915 Italy.\n\nThere were several main causes of World War I, which broke out unexpectedly in June-August 1914, including the conflicts and hostility of the previous four decades. Militarism, alliances, imperialism, and ethnic nationalism played major roles. However the immediate origins of the war lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914, which was sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (heir to the throne of Austria Hungary) by a Serbian secret organization, the Black Hand.\n\nSince the 1870s or 1880s all the major powers had been preparing for a large-scale war, although none expected one. Britain focused on building up its Royal Navy, already stronger than the next two navies combined. Germany, France, Austria, Italy and Russia, and some smaller countries, set up conscription systems whereby young men would serve from 1 to 3 years in the army, then spend the next 20 years or so in the reserves with annual summer training. Men of higher social status became officers.\n\nEach country devised a mobilisation system whereby the reserves could be called up quickly and sent to key points by rail. Every year the plans were updated and increased in complexity. Each country stockpiled arms and supplies for an army that ran into the millions. Germany in 1874 had a regular professional army of 420,000 with an additional 1.3 million reserves. By 1897 the regular army was 545,000 strong and the reserves 3.4 million. The French in 1897 had 3.4 million reservists, Austria 2.6 million, and Russia 4.0 million. All major countries had a general staff which designed war plans against possible enemies. All plans called for a decisive opening and a short war. Germany's Schlieffen Plan was the most elaborate; the Army was so confident that it would succeed that they made no alternative plans. It was kept secret from Austria, as well as from the German navy, the chancellor and the foreign ministry, so there was no coordination--and in the event the plan failed.\n\nHistorians focus on a handful of German leaders, as is the case for most countries in 1914. For Germany special attention focuses on the Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg, thanks to the discovery of the very rich, candid diary of his top aide Kurt Riezler. \n\nWilhelm II, German Emperor, the Kaiser, was given enormous publicity by both sides, and signed off on major decisions, but he was largely shunted aside or persuaded by others.\n\nHelmuth von Moltke, the Chief of the German General Staff, was in charge of all planning and operations for the German army. He kept his plans quiet. He had the Kaiser's approval, but did not share any details with the Navy, the Chancellor, or his allies. Increasingly as a crisis grew, Moltke became the most powerful man in Germany.\nPublic opinion and pressure groups played a major role in influencing German politics. The Army and Navy each had their nationwide network of supporters, with a million members in the German Navy League, founded in 1898, and 20,000 in the German Army League, founded in 1912.. The most articulate and aggressive civilian organization was the \"Pan-German League\". The agrarian interest was led by large landowners who were especially interested in exports and was politically well organized. Major corporations in the steel and coal industries were effective lobbyists. All of these economic groups promoted an aggressive foreign-policy. Bankers and financiers were not as pacifistic as their counterparts in London, but they did not play a large role in shaping foreign policy. \n\nPacifism had its own well-organized groups, and the labour unions strongly denounced war before it was declared. In the 1912 elections, the Socialists (Social Democratic Party or SPD), based in the labour unions, won 35% of the national vote. Conservative elites exaggerated the implicit threats made by radical Socialists such as August Bebel and became alarmed. Some looked to a foreign war as a solution to Germany's internal problems; others considered ways to suppress the Socialists. SPD policy limited antimilitarism to aggressive wars--Germans saw 1914 as a defensive war. On 25 July 1914, the SPD leadership appealed to its membership to demonstrate for peace and large numbers turned out in orderly demonstrations. The SPD was not revolutionary and many members were nationalistic. When the war began, some conservatives wanted to use force to suppress the SPD, but Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg wisely refused. The SPD members of parliament voted 96-14 on 3 August to support the war. There remained an antiwar element especially in Berlin. They were expelled from the SPD in 1916 and formed the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany.\n\nNewspaper editorials indicated that the nationalist right-wing was openly in favor of war, even a preventive one, while moderate editors would only support a defensive war. Both the conservative press and the liberal press increasingly used the rhetoric of German honour and popular sacrifice, and often depicted the horrors of Russian despotism in terms of Asiatic barbarism. \n\nHistorian Fritz Fischer unleashed an intense worldwide debate in the 1960s on Germany's long-term goals. American historian Paul Schroeder agrees with the critics that Fischer exaggerated and misinterpreted many points. However, Schroeder endorses Fischer's basic conclusion:\n\nHowever, Schroeder argues, all that was not the main cause of the war in 1914--Indeed the search for a single main cause is not a helpful approach to history. Instead, there are multiple causes any one or two of which could have launched the war. He argues, \"The fact that so many plausible explanations for the outbreak of the war have been advanced over the years indicates on the one hand that it was massively overdetermined, and on the other that no effort to analyze the causal factors involved can ever fully succeed.\"\n\nMany historians in recent years have stressed that insecurity about the future deeply troubled German policy makers and motivated them toward preemptive war before it was too late. The nation was surrounded by enemies who were getting stronger; the bid to rival British naval supremacy had failed. Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg was mesmerized by the steady growth of Russian power, which was in large part due to French financial and technical assistance. For the Germans, this deepened the worry often expressed by the Kaiser that Germany was being surrounded by enemies who were growing in strength. One implication was that time was against them, and a war happening sooner would be more advantageous for Germany than a war happening later. For the French, there was a growing fear that Russia would become significantly more powerful than France, and become more independent of France, possibly even returning to its old military alliance with Germany. The implication was that a war sooner could count on the Russian alliance, but the longer it waited the greater the likelihood of a Russian alliance with Germany that would doom France.\n\nFrance, a third smaller than Germany, needed Russia's vast potential, and the fear was that together the two would in a few years clearly surpass Germany's military capability. This argued for war sooner rather than later. Bethmann Hollweg knew he was undertaking a calculated risk by backing a local war in which Austria would politically destroy Serbia. The hope was to \"localize\" that war by keeping the other powers out of it. Russia had no treaty obligations to Serbia, but was trying to fashion itself as the leader of the Slavic peoples in opposition to their German and Austrian oppressors. If Russia intervened to defend Serbia, Germany would have to intervene to defend Austria, and very likely France would honor its treaty obligation and join with Russia. Bethmann Hollweg assumed Britain had no interest in the Balkans and would remain neutral. It was also possible that Russia would go to war but France would not follow, in which case the Triple Entente would become meaningless. The calculated risk failed when Russia mobilized. The German general staff, which was always hawkish and eager for war, now took control of German policy. Its war plan called for immediate action before Russia could mobilize much force, and instead use very rapid mobilization of German active duty and reserve forces to invade France through Belgium. Once France was knocked out, the German troops would be sent to the East to defeat Russia with the assistance of the Austrian army. Once Russia mobilized, on July 31, Austria and Germany mobilized. The Germans had a very sophisticated plan for rapid mobilization. It worked well while everyone else was days or weeks behind. The general staff convinced the Kaiser to activate their war plan, and Bethmann Hollweg could only follow along. Most historians treat the Kaiser as a man far out of his depth who was under the spell of the Army General staff. \n\nIn 1913, the Army Act raised Germany's peace strength to 870,000 men, and raising the eventual war strength from 4.5 million to 5.4 million. France responded by expanding the training period for all draftees from two years to three. Russia likewise raised its army size to a wartime basis of 5.4 million. Austria in 1913 raised its war strength to 2.0 million. All the rival armies improved their efficiency, especially with more powerful artillery and machine guns.\n\nThe main war plan, the Schlieffen Plan, was drawn up by the Army headquarters. It called for a great infantry sweep through Belgium to encircle Paris and defeat France in a matter of weeks. Then the forces would be moved by rail to the Eastern Front, to defeat the Russians. The plan was not shared with the Navy, the Foreign Office, the Chancellor, the main ally in Vienna, or the separate Army commands in Bavaria and the other states. No one could point out problems or plan to coordinate with it. The generals who did know about it counted on it giving a quick victory within weeks--if that did not happen there was no \"Plan B.\"\n\nIn explaining why neutral Britain went to war with Germany, Kennedy (1980) recognized it was critical for war that Germany become economically more powerful than Britain, but he downplays the disputes over economic trade imperialism, the Baghdad Railway, confrontations in Central and Eastern Europe, highly-charged political rhetoric and domestic pressure groups. Germany's reliance time and again on sheer power, while Britain increasingly appealed to moral sensibilities, played a role, especially in seeing the invasion of Belgium as a profound moral and diplomatic crime. Kennedy argues that by far the main reason was London's fear that a repeat of 1870 — when Prussia and the German states smashed France — would mean that Germany, with a powerful army and navy, would control the English Channel and northwest France. British policymakers insisted that that would be a catastrophe for British security.\n\nThe British Royal Navy dominated the globe in the 19th century, but after 1890, Germany attempted to challenge Britain's supremacy. The resulting naval race heightened tensions between the two nations. In 1897 Admiral Tirpitz became German Naval Secretary of State and began the transformation of German Navy from small, coastal defence force to a fleet that was meant to challenge British naval power. As part of wider bid to alter the international balance of power decisively in Germany's favour, Tirpitz called for a \"Risikoflotte\" (Risk Fleet), so called because, although still smaller than the British fleet, it would be too large for Britain to risk taking on.\n\nThe German Navy, under Tirpitz, had ambitions to rival the great Royal Navy and dramatically expanded its fleet in the early 20th century to protect the colonies, German commerce, the homeland, and to exert power worldwide. Tirpitz started a programme of warship construction in 1898. In 1890, to protect its new fleet Germany traded possessions. It obtained the strategic island of Heligoland off the German North Sea coast and gave up the island of Zanzibar in Africa. The British, however, were always well ahead in the race. The British \"Dreadnought\" battleship of 1907 was so advanced in terms of speed and firepower that all other warships were immediately made obsolete. Germany copied it but never surged ahead in quality or numbers.\n\nBerlin repeatedly and urgently called on Vienna to act quickly in response to the assassination on June 28, so that a counter alliance would not have time to organize, and Austria could blame its intense anger at the atrocious act. Vienna delayed its critical ultimatum until July 23, and its actual invasion until August 13. That allowed time for the Russian-French opposition to organize. It also allowed an investigation to turn up many details but no evidence pointing directly to the government of Serbia. The main reason for the delay was the fact that practically the entire Austrian army was tied down at home in harvest work, providing a food supply that would be essential for any war once the reserves were called to duty.\n\nIn July, 1914, Germany gave Austria a \"blank cheque\" in handling its punishment of Serbia regarding the assassination of the heir to the Austrian throne. It meant that Germany would support whatever decision Austria made. Austria decided on war with Serbia, which quickly led to escalation with Russia. Chancellor Bethmann Hollweg on July 6 told the Austrian ambassador in Berlin:\n\nShortly after the war began, the German foreign office issued a statement justifying the Blank Check as necessary for the preservation of Austria, and the Teutonic (German) race in central Europe. The statement said:\n\nIn early July 1914, in the aftermath of the assassination of Franz Ferdinand and the immediate likelihood of war between Austria-Hungary and Serbia, the German government informed the Austro-Hungarian government that Germany would uphold its alliance with Austria-Hungary and defend it from possible Russian intervention if a war between Austria-Hungary and Serbia took place. \n\nAustria depended entirely on Germany for support – it had no other ally it could trust– but the Kaiser lost control of the German government. German Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg had repeatedly rejected pleas from Britain and Russia to put pressure on Austria to compromise. German elite and popular public opinion also was demanding mediation. Now in late July he reversed himself, and pleaded, or demanded, that Austria accept mediation, warning that Britain would probably join Russia and France if a larger war started. The Kaiser made a direct appeal to Emperor Franz Joseph along the same lines. However, Bethmann-Hollweg and the Kaiser did not know that the German military had its own line of communication to the Austrian military, and insisted on rapid mobilization against Russia. German Chief of Staff Moltke sent an emotional telegram to the Austrian Chief of Staff Conrad on July 30: \"Austria-Hungary must be preserved, mobilise at once against Russia. Germany will mobilise.\" Vienna officials decided that Moltke was really in charge--which was true--and refused mediation and mobilized against Russia. \n\nWhen Russia enacted a general mobilization, Germany viewed the act as provocative. The Russian government promised Germany that its general mobilization did not mean preparation for war with Germany but was a reaction to the events between Austria-Hungary and Serbia. The German government regarded the Russian promise of no war with Germany to be nonsense in light of its general mobilization, and Germany, in turn, mobilized for war. On 1 August, Germany sent an ultimatum to Russia stating that since both Germany and Russia were in a state of military mobilization, an effective state of war existed between the two countries. Later that day, France, an ally of Russia, declared a state of general mobilization. IThe German government justified military action against Russia as necessary because of Russian aggression as demonstrated by the mobilization of the Russian army that had resulted in Germany mobilizing in response.\n\nAfter Germany declared war on Russia, France with its alliance with Russia prepared a general mobilization in expectation of war. On 3 August 1914, Germany responded to this action by declaring war on France. Germany, facing a two-front war, enacted what was known as the Schlieffen Plan, which involved German armed forces needing to move through Belgium and swing south into France and towards the French capital of Paris. This plan aimed to gain a quick victory against the French and allow German forces to concentrate on the Eastern Front. Belgium was a neutral country and would not accept German forces crossing its territory. Germany disregarded Belgian neutrality and invaded the country to launch an offensive towards Paris. This caused Great Britain to declare war against the German Empire, as the action violated the Treaty of London that both Britain and Prussia had signed in 1839 guaranteeing Belgian neutrality and defense of the kingdom if a nation reneged.\n\nSubsequently, several states declared war on Germany in late August 1914, with Italy declaring war on Austria-Hungary in 1915 and Germany on 27 August 1916; the United States on 6 April 1917 and Greece in July 1917.\n\nTurkey had been badly defeated in a series of wars in the previous decade, losing the two Balkan wars of 1912-13 and a war with Italy in 1911-12. However, relations with Germany had been excellent, involving investment aid in financing, and assistance for the Turkish army. In late 1913 German general Liman von Sanders was hired to reorganize the army, and to command the Ottoman forces at Constantinople. Russia and France vigorously objected, and forced a reduction in his role. Russia had the long-term goal of sponsoring the new Slavic states in the Balkan region, and had designs on control of the Straits (allowing entry into the Mediterranean), and even taking over Constantinople. \n\nThere was a long-standing conflict between Britain and Germany over the Baghdad Railway through the Ottoman Empire. It would have projected German power toward Britain's sphere of influence (India and southern Persia), was resolved in June 1914. Berlin agreed not to construct the line south of Baghdad, and to recognize Britain's preponderant interest in the region. The issue was resolved to the satisfaction of both sides and did not play a role in causing the war.\nIn June, 1814, Vienna and Berlin discussed bringing Bulgaria and Turkey into their military alliance, to neutralize the threat of the Balkan League under Russian and French auspices. When the war broke out, the Ottoman Empire was officially neutral at first, but leaning toward the Central Powers. Promises of war loans, military coordination, and recovery of lost territories appealed to Turkish nationalists, especially the Young Turks under Enver Pasha and the nationalist organization \"Committee of Union and Progress\" (CUP).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5938743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938743", "title": "Hair tourniquet", "text": "Hair tourniquet\n\nHair tourniquet is a medical condition wherein a hair or other thread becomes tied around a toe or finger or male genital tightly, so as to put the digit at risk of damage. Occasionally, this is known as \"toe tourniquet\".\n\nThe problem usually arises in babies and small children when hairs and thread are lost loosely inside socks. They can become spontaneously tied round a toe and will tend to tighten with wriggling. Natural hair is much more likely to undergo this phenomenon than spun thread.\n\nIncidents similar to this can also occur during sleep, usually under duvets or sheets which have loose threads which can constrict the toes.\n\nAs this is a condition primarily of young children, symptoms are rarely reported. The child will become suddenly uncomfortable and miserable. As the digit is often inside a sock, the cause may not be clear.\n\nThe affected toe can no longer receive an adequate blood supply via the arteries, nor can blood be drained via the veins. The toe will therefore swell and turn blue, indicating ischemia.\n\nThe ligature will not stretch in response to the toe swelling and will therefore cut into the skin in more severe cases, like a cheese-wire.\n\nThe ligature is cut or dissolved as quickly as possible. Often it is possible to lift a portion of it to enable cutting, but in a severe case the ligature must be cut through the skin. This is, of course, injurious to the child, but may prevent loss of the digit. It must take place on the side of the toe, where there are no nerves or tendons.\n\nOther treatment not requiring minor surgery includes use of a chemical depilatory, such as the over-the-counter product Nair, to dissolve or weaken the hair. This option is not indicated if the hair tourniquet has cut into the skin. Use of depilatory products such as Nair is not an effective treatment on nylon or other fibers that are not human hair.\n\nDespite the distressing nature of the condition, outcomes are excellent. Loss of the toe is extremely rare, as is any residual disability. In rare cases the loss of a digit is possible. Rubber bands can have the same effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "20384781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20384781", "title": "Hot30 Countdown", "text": "Hot30 Countdown\n\nThe Hot30 Countdown was an Australian radio show hosted by Mike Christian (MC) and Mel Greig. It was broadcast on the Today Network from the studios of 2Day FM in Sydney, New South Wales to every state and the Australian Capital Territory following 'The Dirt'. It was cancelled on 10 December 2012, following the death of Jacintha Saldanha.\n\nEstablished in 1996, the show was first hosted by Ugly Phil and Jackie O under the name \"Ugly Phil's Hot 30\". Brisbane-based announcer, Kyle Sandilands, was then moved in to host with Jackie O until 2003. Labrat and Alexis took over the \"Hot30 Countdown\" from 2004 after Sandilands and Jackie O moved to the drive-time slot. A previously unknown announcer \"Higgo\" stepped in after Labrat took the morning shift on 2DayFM. Alexis and Higgo hosted the nightly show until 2005, when Craig \"Lowie\" Low came in to host the program until mid-2006. Low occasionally included Carla \"Biggzy\" Bignasca as co-host who was the executive producer of the show from the middle of 2006.\n\n\"Hot30 Countdown\" phased out the national promotion of the Black Thunders in early 2005, across the Today Network. Sam \"Sam Mac\" McMillan and Bignasca hosted the show from late 2006 until early 2007. From early 2007 Tim Lee was announced as the permanent replacement to host the show with Bignasca. In February 2010, it was announced that Lee and Bignasca would be leaving the \"Hot30 Countdown\", with Lee relocating to Fox FM in Melbourne, presenting Mornings; while Bignasca expected to focus on television opportunities. Lee and Bignasca presented their last show on Friday 12 March 2010.\n\nAustereo announced on 10 March 2010 that Charli Robinson and Chris Page would be the new hosts. They commenced on 15 March, subsequently introducing a new show at 7pm, \"The Dirt\". Page left the \"Hot30 Countdown\" at the end of 2010, moving to Triple M's \"Grill Team\" in Sydney and Delaney became the first solo host of \"The Dirt\" nationally.\n\nIn February 2011, Austereo announced that Matty Acton and Maude Garrett would be the new hosts. From 5 September 2011, it was announced by Southern Cross Austereo, the \"Hot30 Countdown\" would broadcast into syndicated channels as well as additional Today Network regional channels and with the merger it changed their Australian studio line to 13 10 60. Acton and Garrett also hosted a weekend music show on Southern Cross Ten which was launched as \"Hot30 Countdown TV\", airing Saturdays from 10am to 12noon and Sundays at 9am to 12noon.\n\nOn 31 January 2012 Garrett revealed on the show that she was leaving on 10 February and it was announced on Friday 9 March that Mel Greig (of \"Amazing Race Australia\") would be the replacement co-host. In November Acton announced that he was leaving the show to work at Sea FM on the Gold Coast, Queensland with Fox FM morning presenter, Mike Christian (MC) replacing Acton in early December.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, the day after the then pregnant Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, was admitted to King Edward VII's Hospital for a severe case of morning sickness, Mel Greig and Michael Christian rang the hospital pretending to be Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles. The prank worked, with a nurse, Jacintha Saldanha, forwarding the call on to Catherine's private nurse, and Greig and Christian were able to obtain Catherine's medical details. The prank was condemned by a journalist writing in \"The Huffington Post\", and the hospital announced they deeply regretted the incident and would be \"reviewing [their] telephone protocols.\"\n\nFollowing the incident Saldanha was found dead in a suspected suicide. Following her death both Greig and Christian, took down their Twitter accounts. An executive producer for 2Day FM, told TMZ, \"I advise you to stop trying to call them\" as the hosts have been \"ordered\" not to speak to media. It was later announced that Greig and Christian would be stepping away from their duties. The company that owned the station released a statement reported by TMZ, which stated, \"SCA and 2Day FM are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the death of nurse Jacintha Saldanha from King Edward VII’s Hospital. [...] SCA and the hosts have decided that they will not return to their radio show until further notice out of respect for what can only be described as a tragedy.\"\n\nAt a Federal Court hearing it became known that Australian media watchdog Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) had prepared a confidential, preliminary report saying that the Radio Royal hoax 'broke law'. 2Day FM acted illegally by airing the phone call without consent. On 10 December 2012, Southern Cross Austereo, announced that the show would be cancelled effective immediately. On the following day both Christian and Greig were interviewed on TV shows and apologised for their part in the incident.\n\n\nIn November 2009, a Digital Radio offshoot, \"Hot30 Jelli\", was launched. A joint venture with Jelli, the station uses a play list from current and previous \"Hot30 Countdown\" music, which is then voted on by listeners at the \"Hot30 Jelli\" website. The station has since been renamed Choose The Hits.\n\n"}
{"id": "3050478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050478", "title": "I-CON", "text": "I-CON\n\nI-CON (short for \"Island CONvention\") is a [roughly] annual fan convention, held on various college campuses in Suffolk County, Long Island, New York. First held in 1982 on the campus of Stony Brook University (then State University of New York at Stony Brook), I-CON became a very eclectic convention. The programming included things normally found at different types of convention, like speeches by and talks with science fiction authors, extensive gaming, anime fandom, comics fandom, furry fandom, multiple movie showings, and medieval programming, as well as live performances. There was also a science track discussing recent developments in various branches of science and exploring the real science behind science fiction technologies. I-CON was jointly held by ICON Science Fiction, Inc., a tax-exempt educational foundation, and the I-CON Campus Chapter of Stony Brook.\n\nI-CON was preceded by SUNYcon (April 14, 1973), Mudcon (May 8, 1977), and Brookcon (October 28–30, 1977), held on the Stony Brook campus.\n\nI-CON was held annually from 1983 through 2012 at Stony Brook University, except for 2009, when it relocated temporarily to the Brentwood campus of Suffolk County Community College, due to planned construction at Stony Brook University.\n\nIn the spring of 2012, I-CON was informed that the Stony Brook Sports Complex would be unavailable due to construction in 2013. ICON Science Fiction, Inc. scouted several possible locations on Long Island as an alternative venue, eventually entering into an agreement with Hofstra University. Due to many compounding issues including finances and delays caused by Hurricane Sandy, the board decided to postpone I-CON 32, with plans to raise funds via smaller events and return in 2014, but made no announcements about future dates.\n\nI-CON ran smaller conventions, LI-CON, in 2014 and 2015, at other venues on Long Island.\n\nI-CON 32 occurred on March 17–19, 2017, at Suffolk County Community College, Grant Campus, Brentwood, New York.\n\nNo plans have been announced on the websites. There was no I-CON in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "13897648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13897648", "title": "Ice show", "text": "Ice show\n\nAn ice show is an entertainment production which is primarily performed by ice skaters. Such shows may primarily be skating exhibitions, or may be musical and/or dramatic in nature, using skating as a medium in order to accompany a musical work or to present a story. The term generally excludes skating competitions in (professional) sports. Many companies produce fixed or touring ice shows, which are then performed for the general public in facilities such as multipurpose arenas or skating rinks which can accommodate spectators, or in theatres with a temporary ice surface installed on the stage. Ice shows are also featured as entertainment in amusement parks and on some large cruise ships.\n\n\nWell-known defunct ice shows include Ice Capades and Ice Follies.\n"}
{"id": "11574393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11574393", "title": "InProg", "text": "InProg\n\nInProg is an international progressive rock festival held almost yearly since 2001 in Moscow, Russia.\n\nThe festival was organised by the Russian Rock-magazine InRock.\n\nThe whole reason for the original festival came to be the visit of Azazello to Norway. Azazello played on a Norway festival with Wild Willy's Gang (coverband featuring Willy Bendiksen and Jorn Lande). Azazello stopped in Moscow for a while so a concert with other bands was held. Responses were very good so it was decided to make it annual. However, because December isn't the best time for a festival it was moved to the beginning of the year, therefore year 2002 was skipped.\n\nMost of the performers in this festival are progressive rock artists from Russia, but there are progressive rock artists from other countries too. The idea is to put well-known artists and unknown artists in the same concerts so more bands will gain recognition.\n\nThe organizers of this festival called it \"a festival of intellectual music\", because except giving to progressive rock artists to perform they also give to Jazz and other genre artists to perform. The official slogan of the festival is \"Music for the brains\".\n\nSince the festival began in 2001 its popularity grew from year to year.\n\nSince 2004 the festival was taking place in the biggest Moscow rock-clubs, B2 in 2004 and 2006, and Apelsin club in 2005.\n\nIn the year 2005 the festival turned into an international two-day festival, with legendary progressive rock bands not only from Russia but from other countries to coming to perform in the festival.\n\nThough there was an InProg 2007 festival planned, it did not take place because of a low financial situation.\n\nIn 2008, after kind invitation of \"Empty Hills\" festival, larges uncommercial open air festival in Russia, InProg re-emerged as \"InProg on the Hills\", sort of \"festival in festival\". It took one evening on one stage (\"Empty Hills\" was 4 days and 4 stages with all kinds of different non-commercial music from blues and folk rock to rock-underground, jazz/fusion, progressive...).\n\nAnd finally, upon finally getting a sponsor - Danish footwear company Ecco, InProg organizers decided to change its name for \"Ecco Prog Fest\". First \"Ecco Prog\" took place at 29 November 2008 in familiar \"B2 Club\", Moscow, with Swedish Flower Kings as headliners. Russian bands this times were Apple Pie from Kursk, Batisfera and Kostarev Group from Moscow.\n\n\"InProg on the Hills\" was to continue on \"Empty Hills'2009\" festival. There was big progressive rock section planned, consisting Kostarev Group, Vespero, Jazzator, Disen Gage, Rada & Ternovnik, Symfusion Orchestra, Lost World, Apple Pie, The Worm Ouroboros, Aziris, Vespero. However, festival was nearly cancelled due to logistical problems caused by heavy rains. Most of planned bands were told to stay at home and only 3 bands were able to come to the festival location and play: Kostarev Group & Jazzator (12 June) and Vespero (13 June). Disen Gage first planned to arrive, but eventually things didn't work out.\n\n2009th Ecco Prog Fest was planned at 24 October at \"Yauza Palace\", Moscow. However, because of financial reasons it was reverted to InProg Festival and moved to smaller venue DOM (but on the same date). Musically the Concert was a big success and the organization went very smooth, but the whole tendency of decreasing audiences and lack of people's enthusiasm continued, making the future of the festival again very uncertain.\n\nMeanwhile, the resque came from prog enthusiast from Yaroslavl' town, who offered to make local branch of the festival. New festival called \"Yaroslavl' InProg\" became a mix of musicians from Moscow and Yaroslavl' and happened, to local success, even twice in a year 2010.\n\n\"InProg on the Hills\" has continued in 2011. A mix of Russian and Ukraine bands played there, including well-known Sunchild.\n\nInProg on the Hills 2011 (10 June-13 June)\n\nInProg on the Hills 2010 (11 June-13 June)\n\nInProg 2009 (24 October)\n\nInProg on the Hills 2009 (12 June-13 June)\n\nEcco Prog Fest 2008 (29 November)\n\nInProg on the Hills 2008 (12 June)\n\nInProg 2006 (9 April and 23 April)\n\n\nInProg 2005 (14–15 May)\n\n\nInProg 2004 (11 April)\n\nInProg 2003 (15, 22 February)\n\n\nInProg 2001 (11 November)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15816", "title": "June 13", "text": "June 13\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2581278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2581278", "title": "Korean DMZ Conflict", "text": "Korean DMZ Conflict\n\nThe Korean DMZ Conflict, also referred to as the Second Korean War by some, was a series of low-level armed clashes between North Korean forces and the forces of South Korea and the United States, largely occurring between 1966 and 1969 at the Korean DMZ.\n\nThe Korean War had devastated both North and South Korea, and while neither side renounced its claims to reunify Korea under its control, neither side was in a position to force reunification.\nIn September 1956, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Radford indicated within the U.S. government that the military's intention was to introduce atomic weapons into Korea, which was agreed to by the United States National Security Council and President Eisenhower. However paragraph 13(d) of the Korean Armistice Agreement mandated that both sides could not introduce new types of weapons into Korea, so preventing the introduction of nuclear weapons and missiles. The U.S. decided to unilaterally abrogate paragraph 13(d), breaking the Armistice Agreement, despite concerns by United Nations allies. At a 21 June 1957 meeting of the Military Armistice Commission, the U.S. informed the North Korean representatives that the U.N. Command no longer considered itself bound by paragraph 13(d) of the armistice. In January 1958, nuclear-armed Honest John missiles and 280mm atomic cannons were deployed to South Korea, followed within a year by atomic demolition munitions and nuclear-armed Matador cruise missiles capable of reaching China and the Soviet Union.\n\nNorth Korea denounced the abrogation of paragraph 13(d) as an attempt to wreck the armistice agreement and turn Korea into a U.S. atomic warfare zone. It responded by digging massive underground fortifications resistant to nuclear attack, and forward deployment of its conventional forces so that the use of nuclear weapons against it would endanger South Korean and U.S. forces as well. In 1963, North Korea asked the Soviet Union for help in developing nuclear weapons, but was refused. China later, after its nuclear tests, similarly rejected North Korean requests for help with developing nuclear weapons.\n\nIn North Korea, the departure of the People's Liberation Army in October 1958 allowed Kim Il-Sung to consolidate his power base and embark on the Chollima Movement of collectivised agriculture and industrialization to build a base for reunifying Korea by force. North Korea remained dependent on the Soviet Union for technology and on China for agricultural assistance.\n\nFollowing the war, South Korea remained one of the poorest countries in the world for over a decade. In 1960, its gross domestic product per capita was $79, lower than most Latin American and some sub-Saharan African countries. The April Revolution that forced President Syngman Rhee from office in April 1960 was followed by a brief period of democracy before a coup d'état led to General Park Chung-hee seizing power in May 1961. Despite the political turmoil, the South Korean economy continued to grow, led by the industrial sector. Rapid industrial growth started in the late 1960s, with gross domestic product per capita rising from $100 in 1964 to $1000 in 1977.\n\nOn 10 December 1962, Kim proposed a new military strategy to the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea, with increased emphasis placed on irregular warfare, agitation and propaganda, to be achieved by the end of the current Seven-Year Plan in 1967.\n\nIn June 1965, President Park signed a treaty normalizing relations with Japan, which included payment of reparations and the making of soft loans from Japan and led to increased trade and investment between the two countries. In July 1966, South Korea and the United States signed a Status of Forces Agreement, establishing a more equal relationship between the two nations. With its growing economic strength and the security guarantee of the United States, the threat of a conventional invasion from the north seemed increasingly remote. Following the escalation of the Vietnam War with the deployment of ground combat troops in March 1965, South Korea sent the Capital Division and the 2nd Marine Brigade to South Vietnam in September 1965, followed by the White Horse Division in September 1966.\n\nThe start of the hostilities can be traced to a speech given by North Korean leader Kim Il-sung on 5 October 1966, at the Workers' Party of Korea Conference, where the status quo of the 1953 Armistice Agreement was challenged. He apparently perceived that the division of effort by the South Korean military and the ever-growing escalation of the US commitment in Vietnam had created an environment where irregular warfare could succeed in a way conventional warfare could not. Kim believed that he could force a split between the U.S. and South Korea through armed provocations targeting U.S. forces that, together with other worldwide commitments and small wars, would force the U.S. to reassess or relinquish its commitment to South Korea, allowing North Korea to incite an insurgency in the South that would topple the Park administration.\n\nThere were ongoing propaganda campaigns between the north and south, such as loudspeaker broadcasts across the DMZ at each other. Leafleting of North Korea had been resumed, such as \"Operation Jilli\" from 1964 to 1968 which delivered a few hundred million leaflets to the north.\n\nIn 1966, the Korean People's Army (KPA) deployed eight infantry divisions along the DMZ, backed by eight more infantry divisions, three motorized infantry divisions, a tank division and a collection of separate infantry and tank brigades and regiments. Its total armed forced personnel numbered 386,000. While strong, this conventional force was smaller than the South's ground forces of about 585,000, and it was unlikely that the North could deliver a knockout blow before the U.S. could deploy additional forces.\n\nThe main unconventional warfare arm was the Reconnaissance Bureau of the Ministry of Defense under the operational control of the Liaison Department of the Workers' Party of Korea which included the 17th Foot Reconnaissance Brigade and the all-officer Unit 124 and 283rd Army Units. These units were all highly trained and indoctrinated, skilled in demolitions and small-unit tactics, they would usually operate in small teams of 2–12 men, lightly armed with either PPS submachine guns or AK-47s. The Reconnaissance Bureau also controlled the 23d Amphibious Brigade, which used specially made infiltration boats to operate along the South Korean coastline. The Reconnaissance Bureau could also use conventional KPA and Korean People's Navy forces to support the infiltration and exfiltration of its teams.\n\nIn addition to the offensive irregular forces, North Korea also deployed several thousand operator-agitators to select, train, and supervise informants and guerrilla recruits, while others attempted to cause individual defections and unit dissatisfaction in the ROK military and generally undermine the morale of both the ROKs and the Americans.\n\nThe major U.S. ground combat units in Korea were the 2nd Infantry Division (2ID) and 7th Infantry Division (7ID), I Corps and 8th Army. 2ID stood with the 3rd Brigade manning 29.8 km of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) essentially due north of Seoul on either side of Panmunjom, with another nine Republic of Korea Army (ROKA) Divisions manning the remaining 212.8 km of the DMZ. All U.S. and ROKA forces were under the unified operational control of United Nations Command (Korea) (who was also the commander United States Forces Korea), General Charles H. Bonesteel III. Both U.S. Army Divisions were seriously under strength as Vietnam had priority for manpower and equipment. Troops were equipped with M14 rifles rather than M16s, the only available tanks were older gasoline powered M48A2Cs, and there were a total of only 12 UH-1 Huey helicopters in South Korea seriously restricting the ability to hunt and engage infiltrators. Troops were generally draftees serving a 13-month tour, while experienced officers and NCOs preferred service in Vietnam to Korea. The ROK Divisions were well trained and highly motivated with many of the officers and NCOs veterans of the Korean War, but all their equipment dated back to that war; their standard rifle was still the M1 Garand.\n\nThe main operational objective of the US and ROK Divisions was to defend against a conventional invasion from North Korea in a repeat of the attack of June 1950. While there were regular infiltrations into the South for intelligence-gathering, unconventional warfare was not seen as a particular threat and the troops were not generally trained or equipped for this role. No counter-guerilla units or village militias existed in South Korea in 1966 and infiltrators were variously hunted by the ROK Army, Police and the Korean Central Intelligence Agency with no unified control.\n\nIn 1976, in now-declassified meeting minutes, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense William Clements told Henry Kissinger that there had been 200 raids or incursions into North Korea from the south, though not by the U.S. military. Details of only a few of these incursions have become public, including raids by South Korean forces in 1967 that had sabotaged about 50 North Korean facilities. Up to 7,700 South Korean soldiers and agents infiltrated North Korea from the end of the Korean war until 1972, an estimated 5,300 of whom never made it back.\n\nThe ground forces were supported by fighter-bombers of the USAF 314th Air Division and by the Republic of Korea Air Force. The seas around Korea were under the control of the United States Seventh Fleet and the Republic of Korea Navy. As with the Army, the war in Vietnam was the main focus of the USAF and the USN in the Pacific.\n\nFrom October 1964 the North Koreans increased the infiltration of intelligence-gatherers and propagandists into the South. By October 1966, more than 30 South Korean soldiers and at least 10 civilians had been killed in clashes with North Korean infiltrators; however, no similar clashes had taken place along the U.S.-controlled section of the DMZ. In October 1966, South Korea staged a retaliatory attack without seeking the approval of General Bonesteel, causing tension between the U.S. command, which wished to avoid violations of the armistice, and the South Koreans, who were suffering ongoing losses.\n\nFollowing the first KPA attack on US forces in November 1966, General Bonesteel formed a working group to analyse the North Korean strategy and develop a counter-strategy to defeat it. Finding the existing U.S. Army tactical doctrines to be inapplicable to the situation they were facing, the working group developed its own doctrine to meet its operational needs. Three types of operations were identified: first to guard against infiltration across the DMZ; second was a similar naval effort along the coasts; and third was counterguerrilla operations in the interior. All three types of operations had to be accomplished without jeopardizing the conventional defense of South Korea or escalating the conflict from low-intensity to a full war.\n\nStarting in 1967 the UN Command developed a layered defense of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The Armistice restricted fortification within the DMZ, where defences were limited to patrols and observation posts without heavy weapons. More aggressive patrolling of the DMZ was ordered with patrols going out for twenty-four hours, reconnoitring by day and establishing ambushes at night; most U.S. casualties occurred during these patrols. The observation posts were fortified with sandbags and machine-guns and recoilless rifles were frequently kept hidden there in breach of the Armistice. General Bonesteel obtained $30m in funding from the U.S. Army Combat Developments Command to create a DMZ test Barrier along the portion of the DMZ occupied by the 2ID and the ROKA 21st Infantry Division. Beyond the southern boundary or \"south tape\" of the DMZ, no defensive restrictions applied and a combined U.S.-Korean engineer force constructed an in-depth Barrier comprising a 3m tall chain-link fence, topped by triple strands of concertina wire and reinforced by interwoven saplings and steel engineer pickets, behind it a narrow, raked-sand path paralleled the fence to highlight footprints. Behind the sand strip was a 120m wide cleared kill zone in which mines and tanglefoot wire fronted a line of conventional defensive positions of interlocking machine guns and pre-registered mortar and artillery fire which dominated the kill zone. Observation towers stood at intervals along the trace to permit clear view of the open areas. Various electronics and sensors were tested on the Barrier similar to the McNamara Line in Vietnam, but with the exception of Starlight scopes they were largely ineffective. The Barrier could not prevent infiltration (it was estimated that the North Koreans could cut through the fence in 30–40 seconds), rather it was intended to slow movement and provide easy observation. Behind the Barrier were the quick-reaction forces of mechanized infantry, tanks and armored cavalry that would hunt down infiltrators. The rules of engagement were also loosened to allow the frontline troops to use artillery and mortar fire against known KPA elements in or south of the DMZ and against KPA firing from north of the Military Demarcation Line, although in practice this was only used sparingly. A new 4 monthly rotation scheme was introduced in October 1967 to ensure that each Battalion received only its fair share of time manning and patrolling the Barrier. 7ID sent one infantry battalion at a time to augment the 3rd Brigade, 2ID, this increased the defense to four Battalions on the line plus the quick-reaction forces.\n\nSouth Korea launched at least three retaliatory cross-border raids in late 1967 using small teams of North Korean defectors. The raids killed 33 KPA soldiers.\n\nPreventing infiltration at sea created an impossible challenge for the UN Command, which lacked suitable aircraft, ships, radar and communications. The ROK Navy possessed only 72 vessels to patrol over 7,000 kilometers of rugged coastline. Along the coasts, some 20,000 unarmed coastwatchers, sometimes supplemented by ROKA reservists, patrolled the beaches and when signs of landings were discovered these would be reported to the National Police and quick reaction forces would be deployed. Poor communications and a lack of helicopters meant that the quick reaction forces seldom arrived in time before the infiltrators dispersed in the Korean hinterland.\n\nDuring 1966 and into 1967, there was no coordinated counterinsurgency plan in South Korea. Infiltrations were dealt with on an ad hoc basis by the ROKA, National Police, Army counter-intelligence units and the KCIA usually depending on the estimate of the threat and whichever units happened to be nearby. President Park was reluctant to raise and arm a civilian militia as he did not fully trust the loyalty of the populace to his government.\n\nGeneral Bonesteel regarded counterinsurgency as entirely an internal responsibility for the South Korean Government and while he provided some material support including his helicopters and several Special Forces A-Teams from the 1st Special Forces Group on Okinawa to train the ROKA and the newly formed Combat Police in counterinsurgency tactics, he declined to take responsibility for counterinsurgency operations.\n\nBy late 1967 it was clear that the North Koreans were attempting to develop a full-scale insurgency in the South with strongholds in the Taebaek Mountains and around Jirisan mountain. President Park, in consultation with General Bonesteel, developed a counterinsurgency strategy in the form of Presidential Instruction #18. The instruction established a national coordinating council with clear chains of command for all classes of incidents ranging from individual agent sightings to province-level unrest. Eight (later ten) new ROKA counter-infiltration battalions were to be formed, together with further expansion of the Combat Police.\n\nOn the night of 17 January 1968, 31 men of Unit 124 penetrated the 2ID sector of the DMZ by cutting through the chain-link fence and passing undetected within 30m of a manned 2ID position. The mission of Unit 124, as explained to them by KPA Reconnaissance Bureau chief, Lieutenant General Kim Chung-tae, was \"to go to Seoul and cut off the head of Park Chung Hee\". It was believed that by assassinating Park, the South would be thrown into turmoil, causing the South Korean populace to rise up and fight against the South Korean government and American soldiers, leading to reunification.\n\nOn the afternoon of 19 January Unit 124 encountered 4 woodcutters, but rather than killing them the Unit 124 commander proceeded to try to indoctrinate them with details of the coming insurrection and the glories of North Korean communism. The North Koreans released the woodcutters with warnings not to notify the authorities. The woodcutters notified the Police as soon as possible, and an alert went up the chain of command in accordance with Presidential Instruction #18. By the morning of 20 January the police and military were on full alert, but not knowing the mission of Unit 124 they were attempting to guard important sites as well as the approaches to Seoul.\n\nUnit 124 entered Seoul in 2–3 man cells on 20 January, and noting the heightened security and by eavesdropping of ROKA radio frequencies they devised a new assault plan. Changing into uniforms of the 26th Infantry Division they proceeded to march the last 2 km to the Blue House, posing as a unit returning from a counter-guerilla patrol. After passing several ROKA and Police units, Unit 124 was stopped by a Police unit only 800m from the Blue House. The Police began questioning the Unit 124 members and when a Police officer grew suspicious and drew his pistol he was shot by a Unit 124 member.\n\nA running gun battle then developed in which 2 members of Unit 124 were killed. The ROKA, Police and U.S. Army began a massive manhunt as the remaining members of Unit 124 attempted to escape north and cross the DMZ. A further 26 members of Unit 124 were killed, one captured (Kim Shin-Jo) and two missing presumed killed (though at least one member of the Unit apparently survived and returned to North Korea) while 26 South Koreans and 4 U.S. Army servicemen were killed.\n\nOn 23 January 1968 North Korean patrol boats operating under cover of MiG-21 fighters captured the in international waters northeast of Wonsan, killing one crewman. General Bonesteel was unaware of the mission of the \"Pueblo\" and the 314th Air Division had no suitable aircraft available to give assistance to the \"Pueblo\". By the time that attack aircraft could be sent to the area, the \"Pueblo\" and her remaining 82 crewmen were in captivity in Wonsan harbour.\n\nThe seizure of the \"Pueblo\" was one of a number of crises facing the Johnson Administration in January 1968: the Battle of Khe Sanh had commenced on 21 January. President Johnson ordered a show of force with a massive deployment of U.S. air and navy assets to Korea under the code-names Operation Combat Fox (200+ combat aircraft) and Operation Formation Star (6 aircraft carriers plus support vessels) as well as the partial mobilization of reservists for the first time since the Cuban Missile Crisis.\n\nDespite this military buildup, President Johnson wished to avoid escalating the existing conflict in Korea and instructed General Bonesteel to begin negotiations for the return of the \"Pueblo\" crew with the North Koreans through the Military Armistice Commission at Panmunjom. Even as the extra forces were deploying to South Korea, the Tet Offensive in South Vietnam began on 30 January 1968. President Johnson regarded the seizure of the \"Pueblo\" and the timing of the Tet Offensive to have been coordinated to divert U.S. resources away from Vietnam and to force the South Koreans to withdraw their two Divisions and Marine Brigade from South Vietnam.\n\nUnlike President Johnson, General Bonesteel saw no such connection. He regarded the Blue House Raid as having been planned at the highest levels in North Korea, while the seizure of the \"Pueblo\" seemed merely opportunistic and the timing of the Tet Offensive as helpful but coincidental. He saw no change to his mission of defending South Korea and preventing an escalation of the existing low-intensity conflict.\n\nThe South Koreans saw things differently. They regarded the Blue House Raid and the seizure of the \"Pueblo\" as signs of a North Korean threat that had to be dealt with strongly by both the ROK and the U.S.. When news of negotiations between the U.S. and North Koreans at Panmunjom became public on 6 February, the Park Administration accused the U.S. of a policy of appeasement. Newspaper editorials and Government officials suggested that the Korean units in South Vietnam should be recalled to deal with the North Korean threat, while various advisers coaxed President Park to \"Go North\" with or without the Americans. President Park refused to negotiate seriously with either General Bonesteel or Ambassador William J. Porter. It appeared that the split that Kim Il-Sung hoped to create between the ROK and the U.S. was becoming a reality.\n\nOn 10 February Cyrus Vance arrived in Seoul to negotiate with President Park on behalf of President Johnson. Vance met with Park on 11 February and set out the Johnson Administration's position: there would be no wider war in Korea, any ROK cross-border action was subject to approval by General Bonesteel who would himself need approval from President Johnson and the U.S. would negotiate as necessary to secure the release of the \"Pueblo\" crew. Vance offered Park $100M in immediate military aid (including F-4D Phantom II fighter jets) with more to follow, provided Park agreed not to \"go North.\" Four days later Park agreed to Vance's terms.\n\nThe Blue House Raid and the Pueblo Incident both served to raise the profile of the low-intensity conflict being fought in South Korea and finally brought in the resources needed to fully implement the joint U.S./ROK counterinsurgency strategy.\n\nThe massive deployment of ships and aircraft in Operations Formation Star and Combat Fox served to deter further large-scale incursions. Once the immediate threat subsided the Seventh Fleet withdrew its ships by mid-1968, while the USAF gradually reduced its deployment over a period of 16 months.\n\nOn 1 April 1968, the Department of Defense on the recommendation of General Bonesteel declared the DMZ-Imjin River area as a hostile fire zone, entitling service members stationed in the area to hostile-fire pay and later for the award of the Combat Infantryman Badge and Combat Medical Badge to all qualified men serving north of the Imjin River. This change in designation also meant that Korea would now receive priority second only to South Vietnam. In addition to the $100M promised to the ROK by envoy Vance, Congress also allocated $230M to improve U.S. and ROK facilities and combat readiness across the DMZ. $32M worth of material for the construction of the DMZ barrier and communications equipment was airlifted to South Korea, allowing the completion of the improved anti-infiltration barrier along the entire DMZ by 30 July 1968. The 6th Aviation Platoon which was en route to South Vietnam was instead deployed to South Korea, with its 12 UH-1D Hueys more than doubled the number of UH-1s available, allowing some to remain on alert with quick reaction forces while others conducted counter-infiltration operations. Several thousand additional enlisted men were allocated to Eighth Army alleviating manpower shortages while the Imjin Scout programme improved training in counterinfiltration tactics. Dog-tracker teams were deployed allowing improved detection of infiltrators, while several hundred M16 rifles were procured allowing patrols to match the firepower of KPA infiltrators. These improvements taken together resulted in a dramatic increase in the detection and elimination of KPA infiltrators in 1968.\n\nThe Blue House Raid convinced President Park to make one crucial change to Presidential Directive #18, in February 1968 he ordered the creation of the Homeland Defense Reserve Force (HDRF), publicly announced in April, within 6 months more than 2 million South Korean citizens had volunteered forming more than 60,000 local defense platoons and companies. Park also ordered the establishment of 20 Reconstruction Villages just south of the DMZ, populated by armed ex-soldiers and their families and the dispatch of ROKA civic action Medical/Enlightenment Teams into remote areas, particularly in the Taebaek and Jiri Mountain areas.\n\nWhile the DMZ became increasingly difficult to penetrate during 1968, South Korea's coastline, despite some improvements in ROK Navy capabilities, remained vulnerable to infiltration.\nOn the night of 30 October 1968, 120 men of Unit 124 landed at 8 separate locations between Ulchin and Samcheok in Gangwon province and moved inland on a 30-day mission to create guerilla bases in the Taebaek Mountains. On the morning of 31 October they entered several villages and began indoctrinating the villagers, several of whom slipped away to alert the authorities. ROKA forces soon arrived in the area aboard the UH-1 Huey's of the 6th Aviation Platoon and some of the new UH-1s provided to the ROKA under the Military Assistance Program. The 36th Homeland Defense Infantry Division, parts of two other Divisions, an ROK Marine Corps battalion, Combat Police companies, an ROK Special Forces Group and thousands of Home Defense Reserves took part in the manhunt that followed. Within two weeks most of the infiltrators had been killed. On 9 December several commandos murdered 10-year-old Lee Seung-bok and 3 other members of his family at their home on the remote northern slope of Gyebang mountain. By the time President Park suspended the operation on 26 December, 110 North Koreans had been killed and 7 captured, for the loss of 40 regular army, police and militia and 23 civilians.\n\nBy the end of 1968 it was apparent that despite two years of unconventional operations, North Korea had failed to ignite an insurgency in the South, the U.S.-ROK relationship was stronger than ever and President Park had cemented his legitimacy with the population. In late December Kim Il-Sung purged the senior military officers responsible for the unconventional warfare campaign accusing them of failing to correctly implement the Party line, there could be no suggestion that the KWP line simply did not appeal to South Koreans. Defense Minister, General Kim Chongbong and KPA Political Bureau chairman, General Ho Pong-haek were both executed, while the chief of the General Staff, the Reconnaissance Bureau chief, the KPN commander and the commanders of three frontline KPA Corps were all imprisoned. Units 124 and 283 were disbanded and special warfare capabilities were made explicitly subordinate to conventional military operations. The KPA was transformed by the institution of a Commissar system in all units down to Company level to ensure KWP control over all military activity. Despite the change in strategy North Korea continued to conduct infiltrations, apparently as cover while the purge and restructuring was carried out.\n\nThe UN Command did not initially appreciate the changes in Pyongyang, regarding the reduction in infiltrations as being caused by effective UN action rather than the abandonment by Pyongyang of its failed strategy; limited intelligence sources and few published speeches by Kim Il-Sung gave few clues as to the KWP's policy change. In mid-March the combined forces Exercise Focus Retina began in South Korea, this exercise was condemned by the North as a dress-rehearsal for an invasion and KPA regulars began a series of attacks and infiltrations against 2ID position on the DMZ that lasted until mid-May.\n\nOn 15 April 1969 (Kim Il-sung's birthday), two KPAF MiGs shot down a USAF EC-121M Warning Star on an electronic intelligence mission 167 km off the east coast of North Korea, killing all 31 crewmen. President Richard Nixon and National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger considered a reprisal air strike or an aerial escort linked to a diplomatic complaint at the truce table, both initially favored an air strike on the basis that force should be met with force. Nixon's advisers opposed an airstrike fearing that this could provoke a full-scale war when the U.S. was already committed in Vietnam and they were supported in this by General Bonesteel and Ambassador Porter. On 18 April Nixon announced that future intelligence flights would have fighter escorts (which had been the case until the end of 1968 when the tensions on the Korean peninsula were believed to have subsided) and a protest was lodged with the North Koreans at Panmunjom which was accepted without comment. From 19–26 April the Seventh Fleet's Task Force 71 (including 4 carriers and their escorts) conducted operations off the east coast of North Korea as a show of force.\n\nBy May 1969, the level of intensity of the conflict had reduced substantially. Isolated incidents continued to occur particularly along the ROKA-controlled sectors of the DMZ, but it had become clear that the North had abandoned its hopes of starting an insurgency in the South. Qualitative improvements in the ROK Army meant that the U.S. could start to contemplate reducing its military presence in South Korea. On 25 July 1969, President Nixon announced his Nixon Doctrine that, henceforth, the U.S. expected its allies to defend themselves with U.S. air and seapower support (and the nuclear umbrella), but not U.S. ground troops. While aimed primarily at South Vietnam, this policy would also apply to South Korea (however, Nixon assured President Park that his commitment to South Korea was unchanged). On 1 October 1969 General Bonesteel handed over command of USFK to General John H. Michaelis. One of General Michaelis' early tasks was negotiating the release of three U.S. soldiers captured when their OH-23 helicopter was shot down after straying across the DMZ; their release on 3 December 1969 is regarded as the official end of the conflict.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24822703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24822703", "title": "Language festival", "text": "Language festival\n\nA language festival () is a cultural and educational event held by Esperanto and other organizations in different countries around the world. The purpose of language festivals is to teach and provide information about the world's languages to people interested in languages and cultures, and to show the wealth and diversity of language. Language festivals also aim at demonstrating that all languages in the world are equally important and valuable, and that there should be no \"major\" and \"minor\" languages, which are ideas broadly propagandized by Esperantists.\n\nThe first language festival was held in 1995 by an American Esperantist, Dennis Keefe, in Tours, France. The following year, a festival organized in a similar way was held in Cheboksary, Russia. The Cheboksary Language Festival has since been the largest-scale language festival in Russia.\n\nSince then, language festivals have been held in various countries of the world, such as Australia, Belgium, Finland, France, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Ukraine, United States and Venezuela. In 2008, Dennis Keefe organized a language festival at Nanjing University, China. In 2014, Ghil'ad Zuckermann founded the Adelaide Language Festival, Australia.\n\nLanguages are presented at 20 to 60 minute introductory lessons. The presenter therein provides general information about the language, and often teaches the visitors to say a few simple phrases and sometimes to read and write in the language. There are usually several language lessons given at the same time (so-called \"language parallels\"), so that each visitor has to choose which presentation s/he would like to attend at each slot. Apart from language lessons, language festivals usually include introductory lectures on subjects related to languages and linguistics, as well as so-called \"language clubs\", which are places where visitors can speak to one another in a certain language, listen to music and see films in this language. Also, language festivals often include language concerts where songs in different languages are performed.\n\nThe presenters of the festival are by and large volunteers: language enthusiasts who agree to present one or more languages that they know without receiving any remuneration. However, in order to cover the expenses of holding the festival, some festivals introduce an entrance fee or ask visitors to donate if they like.\n\n"}
{"id": "28728573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28728573", "title": "Let's Get Loud (concerts)", "text": "Let's Get Loud (concerts)\n\nLet's Get Loud was a set of concerts by American entertainer Jennifer Lopez, in support of her second studio album \"J.Lo\" (2001). The concerts took place in San Juan, Puerto Rico at the Roberto Clemente Coliseum during the Fall of 2001.\n\nIn May 2001, Reuters reported Lopez was to film a television concert special for NBC. After her performance at the 2001 Video Music Awards, Lopez announced she will perform two concerts in Puerto Rico. She commented on her decision to perform in Puerto Rico stating, \"[…]It’s where I’m from, it’s where my roots are, it’s where my parents were born. I was born in New York, but I was raised very Puerto Rican. To be able to come here, it’s my homeland in a way. To be able to do my first show, it’s an amazing feeling.\"\n\nThe concerts marks Lopez's first \"touring\" experience since her music debut in 1999. She describes the experience as: \"You know, a couple of months ago when we first started, it was like ‘Oh, my God’. Everybody was excited, we had all these ideas. It was exciting. Then a week into it, we were like ‘what have we gotten ourselves into, this is a huge undertaking.’ And we really only had about seven weeks to put it all together, which, when you’re putting together a full length concert, you have three to four months. I do a tribute to Selena because that movie and getting to know her after the fact and to play her on screen was such a moving experience for me.\"\n\nThe shows were conceptualized by Lopez's former husband, Cris Judd, who also served as choreographer along with Eddie Garcia and Liz Imperio. Paul Pesco served as musical director. Tickets ranged from $45-$90; Marc Anthony was rumored to make an appearance at the concert but never did.\n\nAfter the performances, Lopez announced she would like to go on a full tour in 2002, however, this plan did not come to fruition.\n\n\nEncore\n\nThe concerts originally aired on November 20, 2001 on NBC. The concert special titled \"Jennifer Lopez: In Concert\" was the highest rated program for that time slot. The 80–minute concert was shortened to 44 minutes, removing all of Lopez's Spanish songs and her conversation with the audience. The special was directed by Hamish Hamilton and was nominated for an ALMA Award for \"Outstanding Performance in a Music, Variety or Comedy Special\".\n\nThe DVD, entitled \"Let's Get Loud\" was released in February 2003. The DVD featured the full concert along with a 20–minute behind–the–scenes documentary entitled \"Welcome to Puerto Rico\". The DVD received a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America\n\n"}
{"id": "18261355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18261355", "title": "Mars hoax", "text": "Mars hoax\n\nThe Mars hoax was a hoax circulated by e-mail that began in 2002, that claimed that Mars would look as large as the full Moon to the naked eye on August 27, 2003. The hoax has since resurfaced each time before Mars is at its closest to Earth, about every 22 months. It began from a misinterpretation and exaggeration of a sentence in an e-mail message that reported the close approach between Mars and the Earth in August 2003. At that time, the distance between the two planets was about 55,758,000 kilometers, which was the closest distance between them since September 24, 57,617 BC, when the distance has been calculated to have been about 55,718,000 kilometers.\n\nBoth Earth and Mars are in elliptical orbits around the Sun in approximately the same plane. By the nature of the laws of physics, the distance between them varies periodically from a minimum equal to the distance between their orbits at some point along them, to a maximum when they are on opposite sides of the Sun. These minimum (opposition) and maximum distances vary considerably as the two planets progress along their elliptical orbits, and occur about every 780 days. Mars was closer to the Earth in August 2003 (at the opposition) than it had been since 57,617 BC, and than it will be until 2287.\n\nThere was another opposition on 30 October 2005, but with a minimum distance about 25% greater than in 2003 (as reported in the original email, text below) and apparent diameter correspondingly smaller. The magnitude was −2.3, about 60% as bright as 2003. (The Moon has an apparent diameter of around 30 minutes of arc, i.e., 1800 arcseconds, with magnitude of about −12.7 when full, about 9,000 times brighter than Mars in the 2003 approach.)\n\nThe Mars hoax originated from an e-mail message in 2003, sometimes titled \"Mars Spectacular\", with images of Mars and the full moon side by side:\n\nAlthough the e-mail itself is correct except for the statement that \"it may be as long as 60,000 years before it happens again\" (in fact, Mars will definitely come closer in 2287), the hoax stemmed from a misinterpretation of the sentence \"At a modest 75-power magnification Mars will look as large as the full moon to the naked eye\". The message was often [laxly] quoted with a line break in the middle of this sentence, leading some readers to mistakenly believe that \"Mars will look as large as the full moon to the naked eye\" when, in reality, this sentence means that Mars \"enlarged 75 times\" will look as big as the moon unenlarged.\n\nIt is quite obviously scientifically incorrect that Mars, normally never more than a dot in the night sky, could suddenly become visibly large due to normal variations in orbit. If Mars did appear as large as the moon it would be so close that it would cause tidal and gravitational effects—Mars has about twice the diameter of the Moon, and hence would be about twice as far away for the same apparent size. It has nine times the mass of the Moon, and would have about the same tidal effect (nine times the larger mass divided by relative distance cubed).\n\nThe hoax has resurfaced a number of times since 2003, often showing an altered image of twin moons over the Nilov Monastery, and may continue to do so, always announcing an imminent close Earth–Mars approach. The content of the original email, although almost entirely correct for August 27, 2003, has falsely been redated to announce a new close Earth–Mars approach—the real close approach was in 2003 only—also misinterpreting the original e-mail by saying that Mars will look as large as the Moon. The later e-mails are incorrect, as Mars will not come as close to Earth as it did in 2003 until August 28, 2287.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6731674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6731674", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1987", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1987\n\nMelodifestivalen 1987 was the selection for the 27th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 26th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 1502 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 and was not broadcast on radio. The winning song's title was changed to \"Boogaloo\" for the Eurovision Song Contest as it contained chewing gum brand as well drinks company Coca-Cola in the title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5140217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140217", "title": "Moray Firth fishing disaster", "text": "Moray Firth fishing disaster\n\nThe Moray Firth fishing disaster of August 1848 was one of the worst fishing disasters in maritime history on the east coast of Scotland, and was caused by a severe storm that struck the Moray Firth. The event led to widespread improvements to harbours and significant changes to the design of fishing boats over the remainder of the 19th century.\n\nScottish fishing boats of the late 18th and early 19th centuries were generally small sail boats with open hulls that mainly fished close to shore. The shallow design of the boats allowed them to be launched by their crew from beaches or small harbours, but their open hull provided little shelter for the crew and made them susceptible to swamping and capsizing in rough seas.\n\nDutch fishermen had been fishing for herring in the North Sea from the 15th century, and had developed a large scale system of \"Buss\" fishing in deeper waters using large boats which stayed at sea for several weeks and cured the fish aboard the vessels. To compete with this method, the Government of the day introduced a bounty system which initially rewarded fishermen for using larger vessels, but later paid the bounty based on the size of catch. This led to a gradual increase in the size of fishing vessel operating from the East Coast harbours, although open hulls were still favoured because this allowed the maximum possible catch to be accommodated.\n\nThe weather on the afternoon of 18 August was favourable, promising good fishing and, from Wick to Stonehaven, around 800 boats set out to sea to gather the day's herring catch. By midnight the weather was deteriorating rapidly with strengthening winds and increasingly heavy seas. Many skippers decided to haul their nets and make for shelter. During the course of the following storm, 124 boats were lost, many while trying to enter harbour, and 100 fishermen lost their lives, leaving behind 47 widows and 161 children.\n\nIn the aftermath of the storm, the Government appointed Captain John Washington of the Admiralty to conduct an inquiry into the tragedy and make recommendations for safety improvements in the fishing industry. His report, entitled \"Report on the loss of life, and damage caused to fishing boats on the East Coast of Scotland, in the gale of 19 August 1848\", was presented to the House of Commons in 1849. Washington came to two main conclusions: firstly, that the open-hulled design of the fishing boats was deficient, leading to their susceptibility to swamping in heavy seas, and was a significant factor in the tragedy; secondly, that there was a shortage of good quality harbours accessible to fishing vessels in all tidal conditions.\n\nWashington's recommendations led to a programme of improvements to the many small harbours around the east coast of Scotland. The Fishery Board for Scotland also encouraged the introduction of decked vessels. The main types of boat used for herring fishing on the east coast were the Fifie, and the smaller Skaffie which was common around the Moray Firth. Fishermen initially resisted the introduction of decks because it reduced the space available for the catch, but they also feared that a deck would increase the risk of men being swept overboard.\n\nGradually, the provision of decks on the boats became more common, which led to a further increase in boat size to compensate for the reduced space for the catch. In addition to decks, new boats were being built with a small forecastle in the bow, which contained bunks and provided shelter for the fishermen. This evolution in boat design led to the introduction of the Baldie in 1860 and the Zulu in 1879. By the end of the century all the east coast fishing vessels were fully decked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18057582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18057582", "title": "Mozart Medal (Mozarteum)", "text": "Mozart Medal (Mozarteum)\n\nThe Mozart Medal () is an award administered by the Mozarteum International Foundation. It derives its name from Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The medal is available in three metal types: gold, silver, bronze.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4039179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4039179", "title": "Nikola Tesla electric car hoax", "text": "Nikola Tesla electric car hoax\n\nThe Nikola Tesla electric car hoax is an anecdote that refers to a supposed Nikola Tesla invention described by Peter Savo, who claimed to be a nephew of Tesla, to Derek Ahers in 1967. Savo said that Tesla took him to Buffalo, New York in 1931 and showed him a modified Pierce-Arrow car.\n\nTesla, according to the story, had removed the gasoline engine from the car and replaced it with a brushless AC electric motor. The motor was said to have been run by a \"cosmic energy power receiver\" consisting of a box measuring about 25 inches long by 10 inches wide by 6 inches high, containing 12 radio vacuum tubes and connected to a antenna. The car was said to have been driven for about 50 miles at speeds of up to 90 mph during an eight-day period.\n\nThe story has received some debate because the car's propulsion system is said to have been invented by Tesla. No physical evidence has ever been produced confirming that the car actually existed.\nTesla did not have a nephew by the name of Peter Savo, and Tesla's grand-nephew William Terbo considers the Tesla electric car story to be a fabrication.\n\nA number of web pages exist that perpetuate the tale. Every account of this purported demonstration automobile is based upon the story plus literary embellishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "22328656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22328656", "title": "Ozine Fest", "text": "Ozine Fest\n\nOzine Fest is an annual anime convention organized by the editorial committee of Otakuzine Anime Magazine, a local anime magazine published in the Philippines by PSICOM Publishing, Inc. (Now as merged and jointly owned by Viva Entertainment as Viva PSICOM Publishing Corporation). The event features mainstream activities such as cosplay competition, exhibition booths, band tournament, japanese karaoke contests and art contests.\n\nOzine Fest was first held at Robinsons Galleria in December 16, 2005 where 3,752 tickets were reportedly sold. It followed a year later and was held at the Le Pavillon, Metropolitan Park on July 30, 2006.\n\nIn April 1, 2007, the third Ozine Fest was held at a new venue, the Megatrade Hall of SM Megamall in Mandaluyong City. The Megatrade Hall became the official venue of Ozine Fest from 2007 up to 2016\n\n"}
{"id": "24282630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24282630", "title": "Parental abuse by children", "text": "Parental abuse by children\n\nAbuse of parents by their children, also known as child-to-parent violence (CPV), is a form of domestic violence, and is one of the most under-reported and under-researched subject areas in the field of psychology. Parents are quite often subject to levels of childhood aggression in excess of normal childhood aggressive outbursts, typically in the form of verbal or physical abuse. Parents feel a sense of shame and humiliation to have that problem, so they rarely seek help and there is usually little or no help available anyway.\n\nParent abuse is defined by Cottrell as ‘any harmful act of a teenager that physically harms another person, in this case the parents.' He goes on to say that although parental abuse is real, it is never really caused by the child but by the parents themselves. (This is not always the case though as some parents have done everything in their power to help their child.) Although many people try and convince themselves that someone else is to blame for their child's actions, yet they are only making it worse for the child. Parents must take the time to learn their child so they can have a meaningful relationship that the kid wants to keep healthy. \n\nAdolescent abuse towards parents and even grandparents is a problem in the United States as well as other countries around the world but it is something not often discussed or reported because most family abuse in general remains hidden from public view until law enforcement becomes involved. Child abuse and spousal abuse are discussed, but parents abused by their own offspring are still considered by many to be a taboo subject, according to some researchers. Reasons for this may be parents feel ashamed and/or think they should be able to handle the situation by themselves without outside assistance. In addition, some parents may feel it is not safe for them to attempt to control the situation for it might enrage their child more. But any form of abuse is harmful to the victim as well as the abuser and may lead to more serious consequences if ignored. Identifying or admitting there is a problem is the first step to finding a solution to adolescent parental abuse and seeking help through intervention is the next step to attempt to resolve problematic adolescent behavior.\n\nIt is difficult to ascertain the prevalence of the phenomenon due to the fact that it is hugely under reported by parents. Research carried out in Canada, United States and Oceania suggest that mothers, lone parents as well as parents facing social and family difficulties are more probable to experience parental abuse, especially if a child has experienced violence in the family.\n\nA unique factor in parental abuse is 'the culture of blame', which has deepened over the past decade.\n\nParental abuse by adolescents may be relatively common; an adolescent is a young person between the ages of 12 and 19. However, abusers can be younger or older; in fact, according to a review, 11% of abusers may be less than age 10.\n\nAccording to Cottrell and Bobic, abuse may appear in one or a combination of five forms; physical, verbal, psychological, emotional, and financial. Bobic mentioned only four of the five listed abuses; verbal abuse was not included in her 2004 article, \"Adolescent Violence Towards Parents.\"\n\nMany people consider parent abuse to be the result of bad parenting, neglect, or the child suffering abuse themselves, which some certainly have experienced, but other adolescent abusers have had \"normal\" upbringing and have not suffered from these situations. Children may be subjected to violence on TV, in movies and in music, and that violence may come to be considered \"normal.\" The breakdown of the family unit, poor or nonexistent relationships with an absent parent, as well as, debt, unemployment, and parental drug/alcohol abuse may all be contributing factors to abuse. Some other reasons for parental abuse according to several experts are:\n\n\nParental abuse is a relatively new term. In 1979, Harbin and Madden released a study using the term “parent battery” but juvenile delinquency, which is a major factor, has been studied since the late 19th century. Even though some studies have been done in the United States, Australia, Canada, and other countries, the lack of reporting of adolescent abuse toward parents makes it difficult to accurately determine the extent of it. Many studies have to rely on self-reporting by adolescents. In 2004, Robinson, of Brigham Young University, published: \"Parent Abuse on the Rise: A Historical Review\" in the American Association of Behavioral Social Science Online Journal, reporting results of the 1988 study performed by Evans and Warren-Sohlberg. The results reported that 57% of parental abuse was physical; using a weapon at 17%; throwing items at 5% and verbal abuse reported at 22%. With 82% of the abuse being against mothers (5 times greater than against fathers) and 11% of the abusers were under the age of 10 years. The highest rate of abuse happens within families with a single mother. Mothers are usually the primary caregiver; they spend more time with their children than fathers and have closer emotional connections to them. It can also be due to the size and strength of the abuser and women are often thought of as weaker and even powerless. Parental abuse can occur in any family and it is not necessarily associated with ethnic background, socio-economic class, or sexual orientation.\n\nNumerous studies concluded that gender does not play a role in the total number of perpetrators; however, males are more likely to inflict physical abuse and females are more likely to inflict emotional abuse. Studies from the United States estimate that violence among adolescents peaks at 15–17 years old. However, a Canadian study done by Barbara Cottrell in 2001 suggests the ages are 12–14 years old.\n\nParental abuse does not happen just inside the home but can be in public places, further adding to the humiliation of the parents. Abuse is not only a domestic affair but can be criminal as well. Most teenagers experience a normal transition in which they try to go from being dependent to independent, but there are some dynamics of unhealthy parental control that also play a direct part in the failure to properly raise a child in this regard. There will always be times of resistance toward parental authority. According to the Canadian National Clearinghouse on Family Violence the abuse generally begins with verbal abuse, but even then, some females can be very physically abusive towards a child who is smaller and more vulnerable than they are, and to cover their abuse, they often lie to the other parent about actual events that led to \"severe punishment.\" The child, adolescent or parent may show no remorse or guilt and feels justified in the behavior, but many times when the child is the one who is being abused, they are very remorseful for being forced to defend themselves, especially when they are not the aggressor. Parents must examine their children’s behavior and determine if it is acceptable or if it crosses the line of abusiveness, just as a parent has the responsibility as an adult who is supposed to know better should be responsible for his/her own abuses towards a child. Some teenagers can become aggressive as a result of parental abuses and dysfunction or psychological problems. Some children may have trouble dealing with their emotions, that is all part of growing up but there is a line that should not be crossed and parents may determine where that line is. Unfortunately, abused children are not afforded protections from abusive parents. This practice often helps discourage abusive behavior and show that it will not be tolerated.\n\nAccording to Spitzberg the typical interaction leading to parental abuse often seems to occur in the following sequence:\n\n\nThese types of aggressive behaviors are very important to recognize for appropriate treatment of adolescents and parents abused by the same. Yet the escalation of violence is an interactive process. When parents or others overreact and intervene emotionally, they can cause the adolescent’s aggression to escalate to a higher level, by exerting examples of violence and unreasonableness as a parent. The more tendency towards abuse and negative behaviors that the parent exemplifies, the more reactive the child will also be, more often in a negative manner. Balancing these two dynamics is the key to healthy family dynamics in reducing potential abuse within families, whether it be parental abuses or child abuses.\n\nIntervention is perhaps the best solution to confront adolescent parental abuse and the key to turn aggressive behavior by adolescents, teenagers, and young adults during its early stages and help prevent any other form of parental abuse from taking place.\n\nWhile Intervention is an option, it may not always work. There are times when the child does have a mental illness that does not allow the child, adolescent or teenager to understand what is exactly happening. Therefore, the individual acts out their emotions the only way they understand. This can present itself as violence, emotional abuse, destructive behaviors such as destroying personal property or self bodily injury. The United States currently protects abused children using Courts, Child Protective Services and other agencies. The US also has Adult Protective Services which is provided to abused, neglected, or exploited older adults and adults with significant disabilities. There are no agencies or programs that protect parents from abusive children, adolescents or teenagers other than giving up their Parental Rights to the state they live in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28855738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28855738", "title": "Racial hoax", "text": "Racial hoax\n\nA racial hoax is a hoax that occurs \"when someone fabricates a crime and blames it on another person because of [his or her] race or when an actual crime has been committed and the perpetrator falsely blames someone because of [his or her] race\".\n\nThe term was popularised by Katheryn Russell-Brown in her book \"The Color of Crime: Racial Hoaxes, White Fear, Black Protectionism, Police Harassment and Other Macroaggressions\" (1998). A racial hoax can be performed by a person of any race, against a person of any race. According to Russell-Brown racial hoaxes against African Americans are most likely to receive media attention and create a more acute social problem due to the criminal black man stereotype.\n\nPatricia L. Brougham argued that the common stereotype of criminal black men has enabled the use of racial hoaxes against this group. Brougham writes that these stereotypes cause law enforcement agencies to believe that a black perpetrator exists when in reality the allegation is false.\n\nRussell-Brown argues that racial hoaxes are devised, perpetrated, and successful because they take advantage of fears and stereotypes. According to her, white-on-black hoaxes are the most likely to receive media attention and to cause social and economics problems. She argues that anyone performing a racial hoax should face criminal charges, particularly if a black person is targeted, and that hoaxes targeting black people create more severe problems than those against other racial groups. Letha A. See in \"Violence as Seen Through a Prism of Color\" (2001) sees the hoax as a unique method used against specific racial groups, rather than against individuals. Sally S. Simpson and Robert Agnew suggest that the unusual nature of some racial hoaxes can cause them to be dismissed.\n\nBetween 1987 and 1996 in the United States, Russell-Brown documented 67 racial hoax cases, and notes the following: 70 percent were white-on-black hoaxes; more than half were exposed within a week; hoaxes are most frequently used to allege assault, rape, or murder; hoax perpetrators were charged with filing a false report in about 45 percent of cases. These cases represent only a fraction of the total number of cases because racial hoaxes are not reported as such and most crimes are not covered in the media. According to Russell-Brown, a high proportion of the white-on-black cases were performed by police and judicial officers; she documents seven such cases. Historically the most common type of hoax performed against black males was rape. Because of fears over the 'black rapist', Russell-Brown suggests \"it is not surprising that so many White women have created Black male rapists as their fictional criminals\".\n\nAn alternative type of hoax is when a member of a disadvantaged group pretends to be a victim of a hate crime, either to raise public awareness of hate or to distract attention from their own misconduct in another activity.\n\nIn the United States there has been little legal response to racial hoaxes. Russel-Brown wrote that (at the time of the book written) only New Jersey considered legislation to criminalize racial hoaxes.\n\nIn 1992, Jesse Anderson became infamous for stabbing his wife Barbara E. Anderson thirty-seven times while in the parking lot of a T.G.I. Friday's in Milwaukee. Anderson blamed two African-American men for attacking him and his wife, and even presented police with a Los Angeles Clippers basketball cap he claimed to have knocked off the head of one of the assailants.\n\nWhen details of the crime were made public, a university student told police Anderson had purchased the hat from him a few days earlier. According to employees at a military surplus store, the red-handled fishing knife which was used to murder Barbara was sold to Anderson only a few weeks earlier. Police stated that the store was the only one in Milwaukee that sold that type of knife. Anderson was shortly thereafter charged with murder, found guilty, and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nThe case of Charles Stuart is often cited as an example of a racial hoax. On 23 October 1989, in Boston, Stuart and his pregnant wife Carol were driving when, according to Stuart, a black gunman forced his way into the car and shot them both, hitting Carol in the head and Stuart in the body. Still alive, Stuart drove away and called the police, who conducted a search of Mission Hill, Boston, a mostly black area. Carol died later that night; the baby, delivered by caesarean section, died 17 days later.\n\nStuart picked out Willie Bennett, a black man, from a photo lineup. The police shifted their attention onto Stuart when Stuart's brother Matthew told them that Stuart had committed the murder, and when they noted inconsistencies in Stuart's account. On 4 January 1990, Stuart committed suicide. The police later learned that Stuart had committed the murder to cash in on his wife's insurance policy.\n\nIn October 1994, in South Carolina, Susan Smith drowned her sons by putting them in her car and letting it roll into John D. Long Lake. She called the police and stated that an armed black man had hijacked her car with her two sons inside. After an extensive manhunt, Smith confessed that she had killed her sons, and, in July 1995, was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nTawana Glenda Brawley gained notoriety in 1987–88 for falsely accusing six white men of having raped her. The charges received widespread national attention because of her age (15), the persons accused (including police officers and a prosecuting attorney), and the shocking state in which Brawley was discovered after the rape (naked and covered with feces). Brawley's accusations were given widespread media attention in part from the involvement of her advisers, including the Reverend Al Sharpton and attorneys Alton H. Maddox, Jr. and C. Vernon Mason, three other African-Americans.\n\nAfter hearing evidence, a grand jury concluded in October 1988 that Brawley had not been a victim of rape and that she herself may have created the appearance of an attack. Steven Pagones, the New York prosecutor whom Brawley had accused as being one of her assailants, successfully sued her and her three advisers for defamation.\n\nThe Duke lacrosse case was a criminal investigation into a 2006 false accusation of rape made against three members of the men's lacrosse team at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina by Crystal Mangum, an African American student at North Carolina Central University who worked as a stripper, dancer and escort.\n\nMany people involved in, or commenting on the case, including Durham prosecutor Mike Nifong (who was later disbarred), called or suggested that the alleged assault was a hate crime.\n\nIn October 2008, Ashley Todd, a volunteer for the U.S. presidential campaign of Republican John McCain, falsely claimed to have been the victim of robbery and politically motivated physical assault by a supporter of McCain's Democratic opponent Barack Obama.\n\nThe story broke less than two weeks before the 2008 United States presidential election on November 4. Todd later confessed to inventing the story after surveillance photos and a polygraph test were presented. She was charged with filing a false police report, and entered a probation program for first-time offenders.\n\nIn January 2016, two black and one Hispanic female University at Albany (SUNY) students (Alexis Briggs, Asha Burwell and Ariel Agudio) gained national attention when they accused 10 to 12 white men and women of harassment and assault and that \"racial slurs were used by the perpetrators\" while riding a public CDTA bus.\n\nThe hoax triggered campus protests. The three were eventually indicted by a grand jury and arraigned for \"10 misdemeanor charges, including assault, attempted assault and false reporting, along with a violation for harassment.\" Furthermore, the university expelled Agudio and Burwell and suspended Briggs for two years.\n\nAgudio and Burwell faced up to two years in jail for false reporting conviction but were sentenced to three years' probation, 200 hours of community service and a $1,000 fine when they were found guilty of two charges out of the original eleven. Briggs accepted a plea deal from the district attorney's office of community service in exchange for a public apology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51601370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51601370", "title": "SES-17", "text": "SES-17\n\nSES-17, is a high throughput geostationary communications satellite to be operated by SES and to be designed and manufactured by Thales Alenia Space on the all electric Spacebus Neo platform. It will weight more than , generate over 15 kW of power and have a design life of at least 15 years.\n\nIt will have around 200 K band band spot-beams to offer coverage over North America, South America, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Atlantic Ocean mainly for aircraft connectivity. It will be SES's first pure K band satellite in the geostationary orbit and is expected to be launched on an Arianespace Ariane 5 rocket in H1 2021.\n\nSES-17 is based on the three axis stabilized Spacebus Neo satellite bus. It will mass around , produce 15 kW of power and have a design life of 15 years.\n\nAs all Spacebus Neo, it will use electric propulsion exclusively for both orbit raising and station keeping.\n\nIts payload is composed of 200 K band transponders arranged spot-beams. This high throughput satellite's beams will cover North America, South America, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Atlantic Ocean for the aviation connectivity market.\n\nOn September 12, 2016, SES S.A. ordered its first K band high throughput satellite, SES-17, from Thales Alenia Space. It was to be built on the Spacebus Neo platform, weight , produce 15 kW of power and have a design life of 15 years. It would offer aviation connectivity services over North America, South America, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Atlantic Ocean and was expected to launch in 2020. Its anchor customer was going to be FlytLIVE by Thales, which would be operation since 2017 thanks to the use of other SES satellites on orbit. The project cost was expected to be around 500 Million dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "346978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346978", "title": "SuperCollider", "text": "SuperCollider\n\nSuperCollider is an environment and programming language originally released in 1996 by James McCartney for real-time audio synthesis and algorithmic composition.\n\nSince then it has been evolving into a system used and further developed by both scientists and artists working with sound. It is an efficient and expressive dynamic programming language providing a framework for acoustic research, algorithmic music, interactive programming and live coding.\n\nReleased under the terms of the GPLv2 in 2002, SuperCollider is free and open-source software.\n\nStarting with version 3, the SuperCollider environment has been split into two components: a server, \"scsynth\"; and a client, \"sclang\". These components communicate using OSC (Open Sound Control).\n\nThe SC language combines the object-oriented structure of Smalltalk and features from functional programming languages with a C-family syntax.\n\nThe SC Server application supports simple C and C++ plugin APIs, making it easy to write efficient sound algorithms (unit generators), which can then be combined into graphs of calculations. Because all external control in the server happens via OSC, it is possible to use it with other languages or applications.\n\nSuperCollider's sound generation is bundled into an optimised command-line executable (named \"scsynth\"). In most cases it is controlled from within the SuperCollider programming language, but it can be used independently. The audio server has the following features:\n\n\nSupernova, an independent implementation of the Server architecture, adds multi-processor support through explicit parallel grouping of synthesis nodes.\n\nThe SuperCollider programming language is a dynamically typed, garbage-collected, single-inheritance object-oriented and functional language similar to Smalltalk, with a syntax similar to Lisp or the C programming language. Its architecture strikes a balance between the needs of realtime computation and the flexibility and simplicity of an abstract language. Like many functional languages, it implements functions as first-class objects, which may be composed. Functions and methods can have default argument values and variable length argument lists and can be called with any order of keyword arguments. Closures are lexical, and scope is both lexical and dynamic. Further features typical of functional languages are supported, including creation of closures via partial application (explicit currying), tail call optimization, list comprehensions, and coroutines. Specifics include the implicit expansion of tuples and the stateless pattern system. Its constant-time message lookup and real-time garbage collection allows large systems to be efficient and to handle signal processing flexibly.\n\nBy supporting methods of reflective, conversational, and literate programming, SuperCollider makes it relatively easy to find new sound algorithms and to develop custom software as well as custom frameworks. With regards to domain specific knowledge, it is both general (e.g., it allows to represent properties such as time and pitch in variable degrees of abstraction) and copious of example implementations for specific purposes.\n\nThe SuperCollider language allows users to construct cross-platform graphical user interfaces for applications. The standard class library with user interface components may be extended by a number of available frameworks. For interactive programming, the system supports programmatic access to rich-text code files. It may be used to generate vector graphics algorithmically.\n\nBecause the server is controlled using Open Sound Control (OSC), a variety of applications can be used to control the server. SuperCollider language environments (see below) are typically used, but other OSC-aware systems can be used such as Pure Data.\n\n\"Third-party\" clients for the SuperCollider server exist, including rsc3, a Scheme client, hsc3, based on Haskell, ScalaCollider, based on Scala, Overtone, based on Clojure, and Sonic Pi. These are distinct from the development environments mentioned below because they do not provide an interface to SuperCollider's programming language, instead they communicate directly with the audio server and provide their own approaches to facilitating user expression.\n\nSuperCollider runs on macOS, Linux, Windows, FreeBSD, and OpenSUSE.\nFor each of these operating systems there are multiple language-editing environments and clients that can be used with SuperCollider (see below).\n\nIt has also been demonstrated that SuperCollider can run on Android and iOS.\n\nSuperCollider code is most commonly edited and used from within its own cross-platform IDE (which supports Linux, Mac, and Windows).\n\nOther development environments with SuperCollider support include:\n\n\nAs a versatile dynamic programming language, SuperCollider can be used for live coding, i.e. performances which involve the performer modifying and executing code on the fly. Specific kinds of proxies serve as high level placeholders for synthesis objects which can be swapped in and out or modified at runtime. Environments allow sharing and modification of objects and process declarations over networks. Various extension libraries support different abstraction and access to sound objects, e.g. dewdrop_lib allows for the live creation and modification of pseudo-classes and -objects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17075623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075623", "title": "The Slovak Spectator", "text": "The Slovak Spectator\n\nThe Slovak Spectator (or in abbreviated form \"Slovak Spectator\") is Slovakia's English-language newspaper.\n\nThe debut issue of \"The Slovak Spectator\" hit newsstands across Slovakia on 1 March 1995. The newspaper was founded by four Americans: Rick Zednik, Richard Lewis, Eric Koomen and Daniel J. Stoll. Currently, only Koomen and Stoll are owners along with the largest media company in Slovakia Petit Press which also owns \"SME\", \"Új Szó\", \"Korzár\" and various regional My noviny newspapers.\n\n\"The Slovak Spectator\" is published bi-weekly by The Rock, s.r.o. publishing house and covers local news, culture and business. The company also publishes four special publications that appear throughout the year, including the \"Spectacular Slovakia\" travel guide, the \"Book of Lists\" business directory, and comprehensive guides to local real estate, investment environment and human resources.\n\nIts target group includes foreigners living and working in Slovakia, Slovaks with good command of English, students at universities, foreign companies established in Slovakia and embassies as well as similar groups living abroad, especially people who are living and working in Slovakia or who are preparing to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "20037985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20037985", "title": "Theatro Lyrico Fluminense", "text": "Theatro Lyrico Fluminense\n\nThe Theatro Lyrico Fluminense (also spelled as Teatro Lírico Fluminense) was one of the main theatres in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, during the mid-19th century and was for many years the primary theatre for opera performances in that city. It was demolished on 30 April 1875 to make way for a park. \n\nWhen the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara burned down in 1851, Rio de Janeiro was left without a theatre big enough to host the touring European opera, theatre and dance companies that had been performing in the city since the late 1820s. The city decided to build a new theatre as a matter of urgency. The theatre was originally intended to last for only three years, until the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara could be rebuilt. Its construction was entrusted to a relatively inexperienced contractor, Vicente Rodrigues, and work began on 29 September 1851. Initially called the Theatro Provisório (the Provisional Theatre), it was completed six months later. The contractor held a masked ball there on 21 February 1852, and on 25 March 1852, the theatre was officially inaugurated with a performance of Verdi's \"Macbeth\". \n\nBy 1854 the Theatro São Pedro de Alcântara had been rebuilt, but it was decided to keep the Theatro Provisório as well. As the theatre was no longer \"provisional\", it was officially renamed the Theatro Lyrico Fluminense on 19 May 1854, celebrating with a performance of Verdi's \"Ernani\". For the next twenty years it was the leading opera house in Rio. The first two operas by Brazil's most famous opera composer, Antônio Carlos Gomes were premiered at the theatre - \"A noite do castelo\" (1861) and \"Joana de Flandres\" (1862). In 1871, the theatre saw the Brazilian premiere of Gomes' most famous work, \"Il Guarany\". In addition to its opera season, the theatre also put on plays and concerts with appearances by performers such as Adelaide Ristori and Sigismond Thalberg.\n\nLocated in the Campo da Aclamação, the theatre had a simple neoclassical facade. Its rose painted interior was more elaborate. The ceiling was decorated with portrait medallions honouring various composers and dramatists including Auber, Donizetti, Verdi, Bellini, Meyerbeer, Schiller, and Servandoni. In the center was Rossini surrounded by palm leaves and a laurel wreath. The arena section provided seating for 830 men (514 in seats, and 316 on benches). Seating for women and their escorts was provided by four tiers of boxes built of pine wood. However, the theatre's rapid and faulty construction led to many problems, not the least of which was the fear that it could collapse at any moment. There were also complaints about the poor acoustics and the ever-present dust that plagued the interior. The theatre was remodelled in 1865 when French tapestries and wallpaper, a ceiling fresco, and gas lighting were added. \n\nIts demise began with the inauguration of the more magnificent Theatro Dom Pedro II in 1871. The Theatro Dom Pedro had better acoustics, a slightly larger seating capacity, and was located in a more fashionable street. The Theatro Lyrico Fluminense gradually went into decline and was demolished on 30 April 1875 to make way for a park.\n\n"}
{"id": "315212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315212", "title": "Therac-25", "text": "Therac-25\n\nThe Therac-25 was a computer-controlled radiation therapy machine produced by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited (AECL) in 1982 after the Therac-6 and Therac-20 units (the earlier units had been produced in partnership with CGR of France).\n\nIt was involved in at least six accidents between 1985 and 1987, in which patients were given massive overdoses of radiation. Because of concurrent programming errors, it sometimes gave its patients radiation doses that were hundreds of times greater than normal, resulting in death or serious injury. These accidents highlighted the dangers of software control of safety-critical systems, and they have become a standard case study in health informatics and software engineering. Additionally the overconfidence of the engineers and lack of proper due diligence to resolve reported software bugs, is highlighted as an extreme case where the engineers' overconfidence in their initial work and failure to believe the end users' claims caused drastic repercussions.\n\nThe Machine offered two modes of radiation therapy:\n\nIt also included a \"Field light\" mode, which allowed the patient to be correctly positioned by illuminating the treatment area with visible light.\n\nThe six documented accidents occurred when the high-current electron beam generated in X-ray mode was delivered directly to patients. Two software faults were to blame: One, when the operator incorrectly selected X-ray mode before quickly changing to electron mode, allowed the electron beam to be set for X-ray mode without the X-ray target being in place. A second fault allowed the electron beam to activate during field-light mode, during which no beam scanner was active or target was in place.\n\nPrevious models had hardware interlocks to prevent such faults, but the Therac-25 had removed them, depending instead on software checks for safety.\n\nThe high-current electron beam struck the patients with approximately 100 times the intended dose of radiation, and over a narrower area, delivering a potentially lethal dose of beta radiation. The feeling was described by patient Ray Cox as \"an intense electric shock\", causing him to scream and run out of the treatment room. Several days later, radiation burns appeared, and the patients showed the symptoms of radiation poisoning; in three cases, the injured patients later died as a result of the overdose.\n\nA commission concluded that the primary reason should be attributed to the bad software design and development practices, and not explicitly to several coding errors that were found. In particular, the software was designed so that it was realistically impossible to test it in a clean automated way.\n\nResearchers who investigated the accidents found several contributing causes. These included the following institutional causes:\n\n\nThe researchers also found several engineering issues:\n\n\nThe software was written in assembly language that might require more attention for testing and good design. However the choice of language by itself is not listed as a primary cause in the report. The machine also used its own operating system.\n\nLeveson notes that a lesson to be drawn from the incident is to not assume that reused software is safe: \n\"A naive assumption is often made that reusing software or using commercial off-the-shelf software will increase safety because the software will have been exercised extensively. Reusing software modules does not guarantee safety in the new system to which they are transferred...\" This blind faith in poorly understood software coded paradigms is known as cargo cult programming. In response to incidents like those associated with Therac-25, the IEC 62304 standard was created, which introduces development life cycle standards for medical device software and specific guidance on using software of unknown pedigree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38643579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38643579", "title": "VanFest", "text": "VanFest\n\nVanFest is an annual music festival which takes place in Maple Valley, Washington, United States. It was founded in 2011 as a grassroots project by namesake Van Wolfe, who was a student at Tahoma Senior High School at the time and described in \"The Stranger\" as a \"superhuman\". The event series, featuring largely Pacific Northwest local bands, benefits the Maple Valley food bank. VanFest Five, held in 2015, boasted four stages and 36 bands performing. VanFest 2016 featured three stages along with a hip hop tent.\n\n"}
{"id": "350727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350727", "title": "Wanda Tinasky", "text": "Wanda Tinasky\n\nWanda Tinasky, ostensibly a bag lady living under a bridge in the Mendocino County area of Northern California, was the pseudonymous author of a series of playful, comic and erudite letters sent to the \"Mendocino Commentary\" and \"Anderson Valley Advertiser\" between 1983 and 1988. These letters were later collected and published as \"The Letters of Wanda Tinasky\". In them, Tinasky weighs in on a variety of topics – most notably local artists, writers, poets and politicians – with an irreverent wit and literate polish at odds with her apparently straitened circumstances. The harshness of the attacks was deemed excessive by the \"Commentary\" early on, and, as a result, most of the remaining letters appeared in the \"AVA\". At the time, the identity of Tinasky was completely unknown, and subject to much local speculation. Tinasky was thought by many to be novelist Thomas Pynchon until it was demonstrated that Tinasky likely an obscure Beat Generation poet named Tom Hawkins.\n\nIn 1990, Bruce Anderson, the editor of the \"AVA\", read Thomas Pynchon's \"Vineland\", a novel set in northern California. Pynchon's style reminded Anderson of Tinasky, and Pynchon's notorious secrecy fueled speculation that he had been in the area during the 1980s. It occurred to Anderson that perhaps Pynchon was Tinasky. Indeed, Tinasky had written that she was writing a novel based on the local scene in Mendocino County.\n\nSimilarities (both Tinasky and Pynchon worked for Boeing) were easy to play up, and discrepancies (Tinasky worked for Boeing ten years before Pynchon) just as easy to play down. This pattern of finding significant matches between Pynchon and Tinasky, while ignoring apparent contradictions, continued in the readings that followed.\n\nAnderson ran his speculations past some Pynchon fans, and received enough encouragement to report in the \"AVA\" that Pynchon was Tinasky. This announcement attracted little outside interest.\n\n\nThe situation changed in 1998 when Shakespeare scholar and \"literary detective\" Don Foster – who had gained publicity by correctly identifying Joe Klein as the author of \"Primary Colors\" – figured that an obscure Beat poet and writer, Tom Hawkins, as the author of the letters.\n\nFoster's previous work was based on direct comparisons between unidentified and identified texts, looking for patterns in vocabulary, usage and orthography. Foster's techniques have aroused some controversy, and his results have been mixed.\n\nThe Tinasky identification involved more direct detective work, with the crucial step involving computer searches for works written about writers mentioned in the Tinasky letters. Hawkins' name turned up, and Foster then tracked down more information about and writings by Hawkins. Eventually, many minor biographical details appeared which exactly matched the letters: recycled Hawkins poetry was discovered in the letters, and ultimately the very typewriter Hawkins used was found. Unlike the case with Pynchon, where there were both similarities and discrepancies throughout, the identified mismatches between Hawkins and Tinasky were limited to the Tinasky façade, and a small number of \"transparent forgeries\", as Foster calls them, that had been culled ahead of time.\n\nIn 2000, Foster published a popular account in his \"Author Unknown\". It has largely ended academic speculation on Tinasky's identity. Furthermore, several months after Foster's book came out, the Wanda Tinasky Letters page went blank without explanation, and the \"Letters\" soon went out of print.\n\nThomas Donald Hawkins (January 11, 1927 – September 23, 1988) was born in Pangurn, Arkansas. He grew up in Port Angeles, Washington and graduated in 1950 from the University of Washington with a degree in English. He married Kathleen Marie Gallaner and worked for Boeing in the early fifties, then in Beaumont, Texas in television, for station KFDM, and advertising. In 1960 he moved to San Francisco to join the Beats, supporting himself as a postal worker. After his work was rejected by local Beat publications, he took to self-publishing under the name \"Tiger Tim\" Hawkins. As a fan of William Gaddis, Hawkins discovered \"newspaper\", the self-published Gaddis fansheet of \"jack green\". He became convinced that green was Gaddis, a detail that would show up in the Tinasky letters. Tinasky also claimed that \"The novels of William Gaddis and Thomas Pynchon were written by the same person\".\n\nAfter Hawkins retired, he and Kathleen moved to Mendocino County just outside Fort Bragg, where they lived in poverty for most of the eighties. Hawkins engaged in petty scams and thefts, and took to disguising himself. Kathleen came into an inheritance and bought a car for herself and a pickup truck for her husband. She also bought a kiln, and began a promising career in pottery. \n\nThree weeks after the last (according to Foster) authentic Tinasky letter, Hawkins bludgeoned Kathleen to death, and kept her body inside their house, unburied. After several days, he set fire to their house and drove her car off a cliff into rocky shoals, killing himself. \n\nAt the time, no one connected the end of Tinasky with the Hawkinses' murder-suicide. Indeed, this event didn't altogether stem the flow of Tinasky's invective: at least one \"copycat\" letter, by Foster's account, had been published while Hawkins was alive, and these continued to trickle out for a short time after his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22294655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22294655", "title": "War of Laws", "text": "War of Laws\n\nThe War of Laws (, \"Voyna zakonov\") was the series of conflicts between the central government of the Soviet Union, and the governments of the Russian Federation and other constituent republics during the so-called \"parade of sovereignties\" in the last years of the USSR (1988-1991), which eventually contributed to the dissolution of the union. When Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union decided to formally release their control of Soviet Socialist Republics, the individual governments began to reassert their own sovereignty and dominance in their respective areas. This included making their own laws separate from the USSR and refusing to pay taxes to the Moscow government. This worsened the Soviet Union's economic disintegration, and was a major factor in its 1991 collapse.\n\nDuring the 1980s, legislative gridlock developed between the Soviet government and its union republics. Multiple laws were passed by the republics' governments giving them jurisdiction over their own territory; these were overturned by Moscow as unconstitutional. In response, the republics officially stated that Moscow's rulings were not relevant to the matter over which the original law had been passed. This led to a constant conflict over constitutional wording and whether the republics or Moscow were supreme in the law.\n\nThe republics began to assert their sovereignty over their regions: first Estonia in 1988, followed by the other 14 in 1990. Native languages were readopted instead of Russian, alienating some large cities made up of Russian citizens, which in turn led to attempts to create or recreate even more individual, smaller republics. These new governments continued the war of laws by rejecting new laws passed by Moscow and creating their own. While sometimes the laws passed by the republics were contradictory, they were largely almost identical to those being passed in Moscow, forming a system of what was termed \"parallel power\".\n\nFor instance, Tatarstan, having a plurality population of Muslim Tatars, declared itself an independent state with the right to self-determination in 1990 and claimed ownership of its massive oil reserves. It set itself free of Russian law and Russian taxes as did many of Russia's 89 regions.\n\nAs the splits became more and more pronounced, the Soviet government began speaking of returning to the status quo by means that wouldn't have been considered before. Gorbachev responded to this by putting marketization and reform on hold in order to focus on reorganizing the USSR in order to maintain its unity. The Treaty of the Union was made that gave more control to the republics over their own affairs, an attempt to keep them in the Union. However, this act was far too late and no amount of publicizing made the republics change their minds from withdrawal.\n\nThe vacuum of power that had been created was filled with the arrival of Boris Yeltsin, who attempted to gain support for himself while denouncing Gorbachev. Gorbachev, and the Kremlin, responded with a censure of Yeltsin and his remarks.\n\nThe anti-government feelings were influenced further by the August Coup that involved the attempted overthrow of Gorbachev. It was put down, but with the effect of destabilization that reduced Gorbachev's power drastically. Control of the situation moved toward the republics and Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia were given independence. The other twelve republics settled on much less strict forms of Soviet governance. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was declared ended officially with the signing of the Belavezha Accords between Russia, the Ukraine, and Belarus.\n\nThe result of the signing was the Commonwealth of Independent States, which still exists today, and the resignation of Gorbachev. He was replaced by Boris Yeltsin, new leader of a post-Soviet Russia.\n\nWhile Yeltsin's rise was timely and seemed to express a new future for Russia, he faced considerable opposition in implementing laws vital to the continuance of Russia. Those members previously Soviets were largely stripped of power, replaced with other Russian citizens, though many Soviets were able to switch over to a nationalistic stance and retain their positions.\n\nAfter the new government reorganized itself, Yeltsin found himself in a position that should have offered him the ability to change Russia as he saw fit, but this was undermined by the Russian parliament. Another war of laws began between Yeltsin and parliament, a conflict that also trickled through the lower echelons of the government. Pressured to find a way to go around the parliament, Yeltsin made major concessions to his subject regions with the signing of the Federal Treaty in an attempt to gain their favor in his legal battle. He even went further with the creation of the Russian Constitution that gave more powers to the republics still affiliated with Russia.\n\nGeorgia, a country in the Caucasus region, near where the Middle East meets Europe and Asia, has frequently been the source of conflict in recent decades. These conflicts have arisen between itself and its seceded partially recognized republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. The ongoing war between Georgia and Abkhazia has resulted in repeated interventions from Russia, the regional superpower.\n\nWith Abkhazia originally part of the Georgian republic, its people were under the rule of the Georgian government and, consequently, under the rule of Stalinist Russia. The migration of Russians to Georgia and then the further movement of Georgians into the region of Abkhazia raised nationalistic fears there. Petitions to Moscow for allowed separation went unanswered, but a policy preferential toward the Abkazians began to emerge. The ethnic tension that resulted because of this, especially during détente, was a sign of the oncoming war.\n\nAs the latter half of the 1980s ended, the Soviet Union began showing signs of its imminent fall. 1988 saw the creation of numerous national movements in both countries, often aimed harmfully at the other. Georgia began the movement of separation from Russia at the expense of the Abkhazians. In response, the Abkhazians officially announced their secession from the Georgian republic.\n\nThe Soviet intervention on April 9, 1989, resulted in the \"Tbilisi Massacre\". This event pushed the Abkhasians even further away from Georgia in an effort to show themselves as pro-Soviet and the Georgians as offending anti-communists. In an effort to stave off further resentment against itself for invading again, Russia left the region alone to its own whims. What came from this was a war of laws between Georgia and Abkhazia.\n\nWith Vladimir Putin's rise to presidency in 2000, a much more rigid, \"unified\" Russia was expected to form. While the constituent republics had obtained a large amount of autonomy and sovereignty after the USSR collapse, their constitutions still considered them to be unified with Russia in one form or another. Putin's presidency led to the passing of several regulations pushing reintegration.\n\nTatarstan was the republic that led the way for regional autonomy, the main region pushing for the policy of \"official asymmetry.\" This stance was imperiled by the creation of legislation known as \"federal intervention\", in which the president of Russia can remove any leader of a republic and dissolve the republic's legislature if the region twice refuses to obey court decisions in Moscow.\n\nIn response, the courts were bombarded with cases in an attempt to change the law, but this only led to further disintegration of laws protecting the regions. Tatarstan was forced to reword its constitution to foster closer ties with the Russian government. The capital, Kazan, made these conciliatory moves while still remaining independent in some forms. However, nationalistic movements sprouted among the people and the reintegration of Tatarstan became one filled with strife and conflict.\n"}
{"id": "2228426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228426", "title": "World Scrabble Championship 1995", "text": "World Scrabble Championship 1995\n\nThe World Scrabble Championship 1995 was the third World Scrabble Championship. The winner was David Boys of Canada.\n\nA fifteen round, Swiss-paired preliminary event was used to determine initial placement. The top four players then played a three-game round-robin (with the results of the first 15 games carrying over) to determine the finalists, who played a best-of-five final.\n\nThe first game of the finals was a close one with Sherman winning 431–421. Sherman missed a bingo (pENTROOF) but at that point, the game was already in the bag.\n\nIn the second game, many felt that Sherman blundered in his opening play while Boys cruised to an easy 404–278 victory despite missing ABOmASA early on.\n\nSherman and Boys traded wins again in games three and four, setting up a single game to decide the championship.\n\nThe final game was a bit of an anti-climax with Boys winning easily 432–300 (after challenging off Sherman's early phony TWINNERS) to take the World Championship. With two tiles in the bag, Boys chose to bypass a 98-point bingo (LADYBUGS) to block a triple-triple line that Sherman had a 1-in-18 chance of using for the game-winning 212-point PEJORATE. The blocking play left Sherman with no chance to win and left Boys as World Champion.\n\n\n"}
