{"id": "23203777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23203777", "title": "Adolphe Ferrière", "text": "Adolphe Ferrière\n\nAdolphe Ferrière (Geneva, 1879 - Geneva, 1960) was one of the founders of the movement of the progressive education. \nHe shortly worked in a school in Glarisegg (TG,CH) and later founded an experimental school ('La Forge') in Lausanne, Switzerland, but Adolphe Ferrière had to quickly abandon teaching due to his deafness. In 1921, he founded the New Education Fellowship, in which he wrote the charter. The congress of this league until the Second World War included a number of other teachers: Maria Montessori, Célestin Freinet, Gisèle de Failly and Roger Cousinet. He worked as a humanist and an editor from 1919 to 1922 on the pacifist journal 'l'Essor' (The Rise). He was one of the founding members of the International Bureau of Education (IBE) in 1925, and served as its first Deputy Director alongside Elisabeth Rotten. He was also a member of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). Throughout his life, he has published a substantial number of books, some of which were done with Karl-Ernst Krafft. \n\nHe is listed as one of the 100 most famous educators, by the International Bureau of Education (IBE).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3191665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3191665", "title": "Ann Brown", "text": "Ann Brown\n\nAnn Leslie Brown (1943–1999) was an educational psychologist who developed methods for teaching children to be better learners. Her interest in the human memory brought Brown to focus on active memory strategies that would help enhance human memory and developmental differences in memory tasks. Her realization that children's learning difficulties often stem from an inability to use metacognitive strategies such as summarizing led to profound advances in educational psychology theory and teaching practices.\n\nBrown was born in an air raid shelter in Portsmouth, England, during World War II. She was dyslexic and did not learn to read until she was 13. Just before entering the University of London, she saw a documentary about how animals learn in their natural environments and decided to major in psychology. \nBrown received a PhD in psychology from the University of London for research on “Anxiety and Complex Learning Performance in Children.” She moved to the United States where she met her husband and collaborator Joseph Campione. Brown received several prestigious awards for her research and served as president of American Educational Research Association.\n\nShe died at 56 on June 4, 1999 in San Francisco. She was survived by husband Joseph Campione, son Richard Campione, two brothers Peter and Michael Taylor, and granddaughter Sophia Campione.\n\nIn the words of one fifth-grade student quoted by Palincsar (2003):\n\nAnn Brown—she’s really very sophisticated. She knows a lot about a lot of things.\nIt’s no wonder people picked her to be president of AERA. She’s good at organizing\nand she keeps track of all our work no matter how much we do. She spends a lot of\ntime with kids. Yeah, that’s what I like. When she comes to school she spends time\nwith the kids instead of the adults. She listens to make sure that we have learned. To\ntell you the truth, she really is a big help. She makes you feel so proud of yourself.\nYou know, your self-confidence gets better.\n\nThrough her research, Brown and her colleagues hypothesized that some metacognitive strategies, such as general problem solving routines like summarizing and self-testing, had advantages over other strategies i.e. mnemonic instruction. Instead of recalling relative meaningless material, studies moved towards connecting the material, which allowed Brown to move towards further research in text comprehension.\n\nBrown was also instrumental in the development of the method of reciprocal teaching, in which teachers and students take turns leading structured discussions of text.\n\nFostering Community of Learners (FCL) was a program launched by Brown along with her husband Joseph Campione at the University of California, Berkeley. The project was noted to be similar to earlier reform methods such as progressive education, and discovery learning. Critics questioned how Brown and Campione's project of FCL would differ from Dewey and perhaps succeed where Dewey did not. Brown and Campione assure that while the approaches to the FCL project are similar to Dewey's early works, there are also differences. The approach to the project was to create a program that met between the theories of discovery learning and didactic learning. According to Brown and Campione, discovery learning that was unguided could potentially be dangerous, while didactic study led to passive learners. Therefore, Brown and Campione's approach of “guided discovery” was the middle ground between the two.\n\nIn FCL, students were encouraged to design their own learning through a curriculum they prepared themselves therefore acting as collaborative researchers. A teacher, or guide, is then responsible for modeling, fostering, and guiding the process of discovery into forms of disciplined examination. The project also utilized reciprocal teaching, which allowed students to study and share their expertise with a group and discuss material they have prepared themselves.\nThe curriculum of a FCL classroom was a key feature to the program. Depending on the curricula, the classroom activity fostered various themes and units that aided in the further development of the student. Biological themes included interdependence and adaptation while environmental science themes included balance, competition, and cooperation.\n\nThrough the Brown and Campione team, the FCL research enhanced the interaction between classroom and laboratory research. Research conducted in a laboratory allowed a better understanding of the developmental patterns demonstrated by children and in turn gave rise to classroom observations in which hypotheses could be systematically explore in relatively controlled environments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36890920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36890920", "title": "BAHCEP", "text": "BAHCEP\n\nBAHCEP (Beijing And Hong Kong Cultural Exchange Program) is an annual exchange initiative organized by the China Study Society, Hong Kong University Student's Union (CSS, HKUSU). In 2012, the three participating universities include Peking University, Tsinghua University and the University of Hong Kong. These are generally considered as the best universities of their respective regions. 20 students from Beijing are going to spend a week in Hong Kong together with local students during their autumn break (29 September - 6 October). The goal of this exchange is to give them an opportunity to communicate freely and come to a mutual understanding. Therefore, unguided face-to-face group discussions are the main focus of this event.\n"}
{"id": "39556707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39556707", "title": "Bhim Public High School", "text": "Bhim Public High School\n\nBhim Public High School is located in Bhimeshwor Municipality,Suntwapar Dolakha. It is one of the oldest high school in Dolakha District. It is established in 2007 B.S.Most of the students were local. Since there were not any High School in surrounding town or village, most of the students used to come this school for study. Some of the popular teachers were late Dr. Kabitaram Shrestha, Badriman Shrestha, Tirtha Narayan Manandhar, Chok Bahadur Dahal, Shyam Krishna Shrestha. The old building of school was built by the effort of local people from Dolakha Bazaar and some money funded by the government. \n\nPrincipal (Head Masters of the School.\n"}
{"id": "1499950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499950", "title": "Caroline Baillie", "text": "Caroline Baillie\n\nCaroline Baillie is a materials scientist and specialist in engineering education, since 2017 the inaugural Professor of Praxis in the School of Engineering at the University of San Diego, USA.\n\nBaillie was born and educated in south-east UK. She has a Bachelors in Materials Technology, University of Surrey (1985). Her first job after undergraduate study was in public relations, and she resigned when asked to promote asbestos despite its carcinogenic properties. She returned to Surrey for a PhD in materials science and engineering (1991). She has one son born in 2012.\n\nHer first lectureship in materials was in the Dept. of Mechanical and Mechatronic Engineering, University of Sydney (1992-1996), where she also took a Masters in Higher Education, which helped to fuel her developing interest in student learning. She was then lecturer in Materials and education development at Imperial College London, then deputy director of the UK Centre for Materials Education at Liverpool University, Liverpool, United Kingdom (2000-2003). She then became the DuPont Canada Chair in Engineering Education at the Faculty of Applied Science at Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn 2009 she moved back to Australia, to the University of Western Australia in Perth where she held a Chair in Engineering Education and was Director of the Faculty Academy for the Scholarship of Education.\nIn 2017 she became Professor of Praxis in the School of Engineering, University of San Diego.\n\nBaillie was the host of \"Building the Impossible\", a four-part documentary commissioned by the BBC in which a team of experts undertook the challenge of building historical inventions to their original specification to see if they really worked.\n\nCaroline is co-founder and co-director, along with Eric Feinblatt, of Waste for Life, a network of scientists, engineers, academics, designers, and local communities working together to research, implement, and disseminate poverty-reducing solutions to specific environmental problems.\n\nBaillie is also a member of Critical Stage Company, which is \"committed to new writing, or tackling established pieces in a new way...\" Through Critical Stage and the Integrated Learning Centre at Queen's University, she put on several productions using student and members of the Kingston community that linked to the themes of engineering and society.\n\nShe is also an associate editor of the \"Journal of Engineering Education\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29304478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29304478", "title": "Christopher Hinton (animator)", "text": "Christopher Hinton (animator)\n\nChristopher Hinton (b. 1952 Galt, Ontario) is a Canadian film animator, film director and professor, living in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. Hinton's films have won international awards and been twice nominated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film: in 1991 for the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) animated short film \"Blackfly\" and in 2003 for his independently made short \"Nibbles\". Hinton won a Genie Award for his 2004 short film \"cNote\". He began freelancing for the NFB in Winnipeg in the 1970s. He has written and directed over a dozen films for the National Film Board and CBC Sesame Street. Recent films, \"Flux\" (NFB,2003), \"cNote\" (NFB, 2005), \"Chroma Concerto\" (2007), and \"Compression\" (2008), explore the boundaries of narrative and abstraction and the integration of contemporary media into the moving image. He was a full-time professor in the Animation Program at Concordia University.\n\n"}
{"id": "27812828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27812828", "title": "Classical education movement", "text": "Classical education movement\n\nThe classical education movement advocates a form of education based in the traditions of Western culture, with a particular focus on education as understood and taught in Classical antiquity and the Middle Ages. The curriculum and pedagogy of classical education was first developed during the Middle Ages by Martianus Capella and systematized during the Renaissance by Petrus Ramus. Capella's original goal was to provide a systematic, memorable framework to teach all human knowledge. The term \"classical education\" has been used in Western culture for several centuries, with each era modifying the definition and adding its own selection of topics. By the end of the 18th century, in addition to the trivium and quadrivium of the Middle Ages, the definition of a classical education embraced study of literature, poetry, drama, philosophy, history, art, and languages.\n\nIn the 20th and 21st centuries, it has been used to refer to a broad-based study of the liberal arts and sciences, as opposed to a practical or pre-professional program.\n\nThere exist a number of informal groups and professional organizations which undertake the classical approach to classical education in earnest. Within the secular classical movement, in the 1930s Mortimer Adler and Robert Hutchins set forth the \"Great Books\" of Western civilization as center stage for a classical education curriculum. Also some public schools (primarily charters) have structured their curricula and pedagogy around the trivium and integrate the teaching of values (sometimes called \"character education\") into the mainstream classroom. There are several major societies and associations within the classical Christian education movement, including the Society for Classical Learning, the Association of Classical and Christian Schools, Trinity Schools, and the CiRCE Institute.\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania seal (1894) depicted the trivium as a stack of books providing the foundation for a 'modified' quadrivium of mathematics, natural philosophy (empirical science), astronomy, and theology.\nClassical education developed many of the terms now used to describe modern education. Western classical education has three phases, each with a different purpose. The phases are roughly coordinated with human development, and would ideally be exactly coordinated with each individual student's development.\n\n\nIn classical terms, primary education was the \"trivium\" comprising grammar, logic, and rhetoric.\n\nLogic and rhetoric were often taught in part by the Socratic method, in which the teacher raises questions and the class discusses them. By controlling the pace, the teacher can keep the class very lively, yet disciplined.\n\nGrammar consists of language skills such as reading and the mechanics of writing. An important goal of grammar is to acquire as many words and manage as many concepts as possible so as to be able to express and understand clearly concepts of varying degrees of complexity. Classical education traditionally included study of Latin and Greek to reinforce understanding the workings of languages and allow students to read the Classics of Western Civilization untranslated. In the modern renaissance of classical education, this period refers to the upper elementary school years.\n\nLogic (dialectic) is the process of correct reasoning. The traditional text for teaching logic was Aristotle's Logic. In the modern renaissance of classical education, this logic stage (or dialectic stage) refers to the junior high or middle school aged student, who developmentally is beginning to question ideas and authority, and truly enjoys a debate or an argument. Training in logic, both formal and informal, enables students to critically examine arguments and to analyze their own. The whole goal is to train the student's mind not only to grasp information, but to find the analytical connections between seemingly different facts/ideas, to find out why something is true, or why something else is false (in short, reasons for a fact).\n\nRhetorical debate and composition are taught to somewhat older (often high school aged) students, who by this point in their education have the concepts and logic to criticize their own work and persuade others. According to Aristotle \"Rhetoric is the counterpart of dialectic\", concerned with finding \"all the available means of persuasion.\" The student now learns to articulate answers to important questions in his/her own words, to try to persuade others with these facts, and to defend ideas against rebuttal. The student learns to reason correctly in the Logic stage so that they can now apply those skills to Rhetoric. Traditionally, students would read and emulate classical poets in learning how to present their arguments well.\n\nSecondary education, classically the \"quadrivium\" or \"four ways,\" consist of arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy. Arithmetic is Number in itself, which is a pure abstraction; that is, outside of space and time. Geometry is Number in space. Music is Number in time, and Astronomy is Number in space and time. Sometimes architecture was taught alongside these, often from the works of Vitruvius.\n\nHistory was always taught to provide a context and show political and military development. The classic texts were from ancient authors such as Herodotus, Thucydides, Livy, Cicero, and Tacitus.\n\nBiographies were often assigned as well; the classic example being Plutarch's \"Lives\". Biographies help show how persons behave in their context, and the wide ranges of professions and options that exist. As more modern texts became available, these were often added to the curriculum.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, these were the best available texts. In modern terms, these fields might be called history, natural science, accounting and business, fine arts (at least two, one to amuse companions, and another to decorate one's domicile), military strategy and tactics, engineering, agronomy, and architecture.\n\nThese are taught in a matrix of history, reviewing the natural development of each field for each phase of the trivium. That is, in a perfect classical education, the historical study is reviewed three times: first to learn the grammar (the concepts, terms and skills in the order developed), next time the logic (how these elements could be assembled), and finally the rhetoric, how to produce good, humanly useful and beautiful objects that satisfy the grammar and logic of the field.\n\nHistory is the unifying conceptual framework, because history is the study of everything that has occurred before the present. A skillful teacher also uses the historical context to show how each stage of development naturally poses questions and then how advances answer them, helping to understand human motives and activity in each field. The question-answer approach is called the \"dialectic method,\" and permits history to be taught Socratically as well.\n\nClassical educators consider the Socratic method to be the best technique for teaching critical thinking. In-class discussion and critiques are essential in order for students to recognize and internalize critical thinking techniques. This method is widely used to teach both philosophy and law. It is currently rare in other contexts. Basically, the teacher referees the students' discussions, asks leading questions, and may refer to facts, but never gives a conclusion until at least one student reaches that conclusion. The learning is most effective when the students compete strongly, even viciously in the argument, but always according to well-accepted rules of correct reasoning. That is, fallacies should not be allowed by the teacher.\n\nBy completing a project in each major field of human effort, the student can develop a personal preference for further education and professional training.\n\nTertiary education was usually an apprenticeship to a person with the desired profession. Most often, the understudy was called a \"secretary\" and had the duty of carrying on all the normal business of the \"master.\" Philosophy and Theology were both widely taught as tertiary subjects in Universities, however.\n\nThe early biographies of nobles show probably the ultimate form of classical education: a tutor. One early, much-emulated classic example is of this tutor system is of Alexander the Great, who was tutored by Aristotle.\n\nThere exist a number of modern groups and professional organizations which take the classical approach to education seriously, and who undertake it in earnest.\n\nThere are several major societies and associations within the classical Christian education movement, including the Society for Classical Learning, the Association of Classical and Christian Schools, Trinity Schools, the Classic Learning Test, and the CiRCE Institute. \n\nThese schools tend to rely for upon one or more of the visions of classical education represented by Dorothy Sayers essay \"The Lost Tools of Learning\", Mortimer Adler's Paideia Proposal, Alfred North Whitehead's \"The Aims of Education,\" or Susan Wise Bauer's \"The Well Trained Mind\".\n\nMost classical Christian schools employ the trivium as three stages of learning which are linked to child development:\n\n\nClassical Christian schools vary in their approach to the sectarian integration of Christian thinking. Some schools ask parents to sign a statement of faith before attending, some do not require this of parents but are clear in their sectarian teaching, others are consciously ecumenical. In the 1970s, as a response to the campus riots and sexual revolution of the 1960s, many small classical Catholic colleges began to incorporate, e.g. the Thomas More College of Liberal Arts in Merrimack, New Hampshire (est. 1978), Thomas Aquinas College in Sao Paulo, California, and Christendom College in Front Royal, Virginia. \n\nThere exist a number of classical schools in the public/secular sector. These schools, primarily charter schools, also structure their curricula and pedagogy around the trivium and integrate the teaching of values (sometimes called \"character education\") into the mainstream classroom without involving any particular religious perspectives.\n\nMethods of classical education have also often been integrated into homeschooling, particularly due to the publication of:\n\"The Well-Trained Mind: A Guide to Classical Education at Home,\" by Jessie Wise and Susan Wise Bauer (W.W. Norton, 1999), is a modern reference on classical education, particularly in a homeschool setting. It provides a history of classical education, an overview of the methodology and philosophy of classical education, and annotated lists of books divided by grade and topic that list the best books for classical education in each category.\n\nMortimer Adler and Robert Hutchins, both of the University of Chicago set forth in the 1930s to restore the \"Great Books\" of Western civilization to center stage in the curriculum. St. John's College is an example of this type of classical education at the college level. Although the standard classical works—such as the Harvard Classics—most widely available at the time, were decried by many as out of touch with modern times, Adler and Hutchins sought to expand on the standard \"classics\" by including more modern works, and by trying to tie them together in the context of what they described as the \"Great Ideas,\" condensed into a \"Syntopicon\" index and bundled together with a new \"five foot shelf\" of books as \"The Great Books of the Western World.\" They were wildly popular during the 1950s, and discussion groups of aficionados were found all over the USA, but their popularity waned during the 1960s, and such groups are relatively hard to find today. Extensions to the original set are still being published, encompassing selections from both current and older works which extend the \"great ideas\" into the present age and other fields, including civil rights, the global environment, and discussions of multiculturalism and assimilation.\n\nA more traditional, but less common view of classical education arises from the ideology of the Renaissance, advocating an education grounded in the languages and literatures of Greece and Rome. The demanding and lengthy training period required for learning to read Greek and Latin texts in their original form has been crowded out in most American schools in favor of more contemporary subjects.\n\nThe revival of \"Classical Education\" has resulted in Latin being taught at Classical Schools, but less often Greek. It is worth noting that the Association of Classical and Christian Schools does require Latin for accreditation, and New Saint Andrews College requires both Latin and Greek to graduate with a 4-year degree. A new group of schools, the Classical Latin School Association, does require Latin to be taught as a core subject.\n\nSuch an approach—an education in the classics—differs from the usual approach of the Classical education movement, but is akin to an education on \"The Great Books\" followed by St. John's College.\n\nIn India, the classical education system is based upon the study and understanding of the ancient texts the Vedas, a discipline called Vedanga, and subjects based upon that foundation, referred to as Upaveda and incorporating medicine (Ayurveda), music, archery and other martial arts.\n\nSimilarly, in China, the fulcrum of a classical education was the study and understanding of a core canon, the Four Books and Five Classics.\n\nIn Taiwan, Classical Chinese takes up 35% of Chinese education in junior high school (7-9th grade, compulsory), and 65% in senior high school (10-12th grade).\n\n\n\"For classical Islamic education see:\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43154124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43154124", "title": "CodeHS", "text": "CodeHS\n\nCodeHS is an interactive online \nlearning platform offering computer science and programming instruction. CodeHS, which is used by individual learners and schools, is focused on spreading access to and knowledge of computer science by offering online instructional materials supported by remote tutors. In the introductory learning module, students on the site practice computer science concepts and programming skills by giving commands to a dog named Karel. Similar to the original Karel programming language developed by Richard E. Pattis, Karel the dog must complete various tasks by moving around a grid world, and putting down and picking up tennis balls using only simple commands. Later learning modules teach more advanced concepts using languages like JavaScript, Java, and HTML.\n\nCodeHS was founded in 2012 by Jeremy Keeshin and Zach Galant, both Stanford University Computer Science graduates. Keeshin and Galant based CodeHS on their experience as section leaders and teaching assistants for several of Stanford's introductory computer science courses. The company joined the Imagine K12 incubator's third class, launching in October 2012.\n\nCodeHS was selected as one of three education technology companies to take part in the 2013 Innovation Challenge, part of the NBC Education Nation initiative. Innovation Nation challenge participants CodeHS, Teachley, and GigaBryte participated in a series of challenges in October 2013, culminating in a live pitch contest broadcast live on NBC during the Education Nation Summit. CodeHS won the Innovation Challenge, earning a $75,000 prize awarded by the Robin Hood Foundation.\n\nDuring the week of December 9, 2013, CodeHS participated in the nationwide Hour of Code challenge promoted by Code.org. CodeHS was featured as a tutorial for learning JavaScript on the Computer Science Education Week website. Over the course of the week, an estimated 116,648 participants started learning to code for an hour on CodeHS.\n\nThe first learning module on CodeHS teaches introductory programming concepts by having students give basic commands to Karel the Dog using Karel-specific JavaScript commands. This approach is based on the original Karel programming language developed by Richard E. Pattis and used in Stanford University's introductory computer science classes. Karel initially knows only a few basic commands: codice_1 to have Karel move one spot forward, codice_2 to have Karel turn left, codice_3 to have Karel put down one tennis ball in the current spot, and codice_4 to have Karel pick up one tennis ball from the current spot. Karel can be \"taught\" additional commands by defining new functions composed of these basic commands. The programmer can also use elements like loops and conditionals to control the flow of the program.\n\nThe following is an example of a simple program to have Karel repeat a series of commands (put down a tennis ball, move, turn left, move, then turn right) three times:\n\nCodeHS received significant media coverage upon its launch, including articles in the Forbes, TechCrunch, and Education Week. The site has also been featured on various blogs for its interactive and beginner-focused approach to teaching programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "24885253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885253", "title": "College of Art and Built Environment (KNUST)", "text": "College of Art and Built Environment (KNUST)\n\nThe College of Art and Built Environment came into existence in January 2005 in Kumasi, Ghana, as part of the restructuring of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology into a Collegiate System. In the restructuring, the Faculty of Environmental and Development studies (FEDS) and the Institute of Land Management and Development (ILMAD) were merged to form the College.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3353308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3353308", "title": "Delaney card", "text": "Delaney card\n\nThe Delaney card (a.k.a. Visual Seating Plan) is a method of classroom management. This small one-by-three-inch card has been used extensively in the New York metropolitan area since the 1950s. Each Delaney card contains the name of one student in class, and lists the name, telephone number, address and other vital information for each student.\n\nEach Delaney card contains the name of one student in class, and lists their names, telephone numbers, addresses and other vital information of each student. The teacher keeps a large book with sturdy slotted cardboard pages, with a Delaney card in each slot. The cards are arranged alphabetically by student last name, or placed according to the position of each student's desk, much like a law school professor's class Facebook.\nOne side of the card has the school year's months and days printed in columns so that the teacher can keep track of the student's attendance. The other side contains the student's contact information, as well as a grid that is usually used by the teacher to mark class participation. The sides are also printed in different colors, and typically the card is flipped over to mark an absence, to remind the teacher the next day of a previous absence. The Visual Seating Plan card system was invented and implemented by Edward C. Delaney, a Harvard University graduate, and teacher at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, who died in 1969.\n\nTeachers in settings where the Delaney system is used often must keep track of hundreds of students; a typical teacher may handle 170 pupils per day. Progressive educators criticize the Delaney book because it encourages impersonal treatment by the teacher. \"The cardinal sin was to treat a student like a Delaney card,\" recalled a teacher at New Utrecht High School.\n\nAs students are asked to fill in the cards themselves, falsification of information is common. Phone numbers and addresses listed may not actually belong to the pupil. As a prank, students have been known to obtain extra Delaney cards and create cards using false names or fictional characters such as Clark Kent.\n\nDelaney cards often appear in works of fiction set in the New York City public school system. They are discussed in Evan Hunter's 1953 novel, \"The Blackboard Jungle\". The Delaney system also makes an appearance in the 1965 novel (and the 1967 film version of) \"Up the Down Staircase\" by Bel Kaufman.\n"}
{"id": "10538039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10538039", "title": "Deskilling", "text": "Deskilling\n\nDeskilling is the process by which skilled labor within an industry or economy is eliminated by the introduction of technologies operated by semiskilled or unskilled workers. This results in cost savings due to lower investment in human capital, and reduces barriers to entry, weakening the bargaining power of the human capital.\nDescilling is the decline in working positions through the machinery introduced to separate workers from the production process.\n\nDeskilling can also refer to individual workers specifically. The term refers to a person becoming less proficient over time. Examples of how this can occur include changes in one's job definition, moving to a completely different field, chronic underemployment (e.g. working as cashier instead of accountant), and being out of the workforce for extended periods of time (e.g. quitting a position in order to focus exclusively on child-rearing).\n\nIt is criticized for decreasing quality, demeaning labor (rendering work mechanical, rather than thoughtful and making workers automatons rather than artisans), and undermining community.\n\nExamples of deprofessionalization can be found across many professions, and include:\n\n\nWork is fragmented, and individuals lose the integrated skills and comprehensive knowledge of the crafts persons.\n\nIn an application to the arts, Benjamin Buchloh defines deskilling as \"a concept of considerable importance in describing numerous artistic endeavors throughout the twentieth century with relative precision. All of these are linked in their persistent effort to eliminate artisanal competence and other forms of manual virtuosity from the horizon of both artist competence and aesthetic valuation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "919881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919881", "title": "East China University of Political Science and Law", "text": "East China University of Political Science and Law\n\nEast China University of Political Science and Law (ECUPL; ) is a public university in Shanghai, People's Republic of China, founded in 1952.\n\nThe urban campus is located on the campus of the former St. John's University. The new campus that houses the undergraduate students is located in the Songjiang University Town adjacent to the six universities Shanghai International Studies University; Donghua University; Shanghai Institute of Foreign Trade; Shanghai University of Engineering Sciences; Shanghai Lixin University of Commerce and Shanghai Institute of Visual Art.\n\nECUPL is one of the few higher education institutions in China specializing in legal education. In the field of legal education, ECUPL enjoys unparalleled influence and prestige in Shanghai and greater East China, which is China's most developed geographical division. ECUPL's alumni are found in virtually every legal profession and institution in East China, such as law firms, governmental agencies, courts, and educational institutions.\n\nFounded in 1952, ECUPL is one of the first group of higher learning institutions of politics and law established by the People's Republic of China and it used to be one of the higher learning institutions of the Ministry of Justice of PRC. It is now a university jointly administered by the Ministry of Justice and local government, with the local government enjoying the priority of administration. Through the efforts of several generations, ECUPL has gradually developed into a multidisciplinary university of economics, management, finance, foreign languages, etc. with focus on law.\n\nECUPL now has campuses in two districts: Changning and Songjiang, covering an area of 1,064 mu (161.5 acres or 65.37 hectare) and a total building area of 240,000 square meters. At present, ECUPL has four LLD programs, i.e. legal historiography, criminal jurisprudence, economic jurisprudence, and international law, and nine LLM programs of law, i.e. theories of law, legal historiography, constitutional jurisprudence and administrative jurisprudence, criminal jurisprudence, civil and commercial jurisprudence, procedural law, economic jurisprudence，international jurisprudence, environment and resources protection jurisprudence and one LLM program of professional law and on-the-job students are accepted to pursue doctor and master's degrees. ECUPL has 22 majors for bachelors, i.e. law, economics reconnaissance study, finance, administration, English, Japanese, international business and trade, sociology, public security labour and social security, frontier defence management, politics and administration, journalism, public affairs administration, accounting and intellectual property, information science and technology, business administration, cultural industry management, Chinese literature, social work, among which the law major offers undergraduate programs intended for a second bachelor's degree in law.\n\nInternational economic law and history of law are the key subjects assigned by the Ministry of Justice, and the subject of law is the key subject by the local government. The university has four journals, named, Law, Studies of Crime, Issues of Juvenile delinquency, and the Journal of East China University of Political Science and Law. It also has more than 30 research institutions, studying ancient Chinese legal documents, juvenile delinquency and so on. The library in the university has a collection of books more than 600,000 volumes and has over 1,200 Chinese and foreign journals and magazines. ECUPL has established cooperative relationship with more than 100 overseas colleges and universities, research institutions and legal institutions in the country. There are about 800 faculty members, among whom more than 400 are teaching and research staff and more than 160 are professors or associate professors, and over 10,000 students. It is also a Shanghai Model Unit and Shanghai Garden Unit and its architecture on campus receives special protection from the government.\nFor the last fifty years, ECUPL has adhered to the party's policies on education, struck to the principle of \"Behave sincerely and learn thirstily; revere virtues and respect laws.\" It bases herself in Shanghai, faces east China and radiates the whole nation and has gradually developed into a higher learning institution with abundant teaching staff, distinct \noperating features, high teaching quality, advanced academic level, outstanding academic achievements, frequent operations and exchanges and beautiful campus. ECUPL has become an \"oriental pearl in the law education\", which makes a great contribution to the socialistic legal construction and modernization construction by bringing up more than 40,000 high-level talents of law for the party and the country.\n\nIn December 2013 the school attracted international headlines on news that lecturer Zhang Xuezhong had been expelled. Prior to his dismissal Zhang had provided legal counsel to the New Citizens' Movement and, according to state-controlled media, expressed \"political opinions that go against the law.\"\n\nEast China University of Political Science and Law (ECUPL) is always paying much attention to the cooperative exchanges with overseas universities or higher institutions. It has set up joint program with the National University of Singapore and the City University of Hong Kong. Also, it receives students groups annually from the United States and Australia.\nCurrently, it has signed cooperation agreements with around 35 overseas universities, including Case Western Reserve University School of Law in Cleveland, Ohio in the United States, Wisconsin University of the United States, Willammette University of the United States,Golden Gate University of the United States, Ghent University of Ghent, Vrije University of the Netherlands, Groningen University of the Netherlands, Queensland University of Australia, Bond University of Australia, Kyushu University of Japan, Kumamoto University of Japan, Anshan University of South Korea and so on. Every year, it selects and sends excellent faculty members and students to sister universities for further study and research. Also it encourages graduate and first-year postgraduate students to pursue the LLM degree in overseas universities. At the same time, the East China University of Political Science and Law also maintains good relationships with well-known law firms in Shanghai and world-renowned companies.\n\nNotable alumni of ECUPL include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9774947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9774947", "title": "Elise Ottesen-Jensen", "text": "Elise Ottesen-Jensen\n\nElise Ottesen-Jensen, also known as Ottar, (2 January 1886 − 4 September 1973) was a Norwegian-Swedish sex educator, journalist and anarchist agitator, whose main mission was to fight for women's rights to understand and control their own body and sexuality. She was a member of the Swedish anarcho-syndicalist union Central Organisation of the Workers of Sweden. Her followers consider her a pioneer in the field of women's rights and feminism.\n\nHer personal motto was \"I dream of the day when every new born child is welcome, when men and women are equal, and when sexuality is an expression of intimacy, joy and tenderness.\"\n\nA vicar's daughter, Ottar was born as \"Elise Ottesen\", the 17th of 18 children, in the municipality of Høyland (incorporated into Sandnes in 1965) in Rogaland county, Norway. Later in life, her father sent away her little sister Magnhild to give birth in Denmark, so that she could be forced to give up her child. Maghild was told nothing about pregnancy or birth, and for nine months she feared that her stomach would just split. She committed suicide because of the longing for the child she had to leave behind. For this, Ottar could never forgive her father, and the fate of her sister became a strong driving force for her commitment to the struggle for women's rights.\n\nOttar's dream was to become a dentist, but an explosion in the chemistry laboratory of her high school injured her fingers, spoiling her chances to pursue a dentist career. Instead she started to work in a newspaper, and eventually became a journalist. She had always questioned the preachings of her father, and early arrived at the conclusion that she was not a christian. She now found that her sympathies were with the socialists, and it was with them she would struggle for the rest of her life.\n\nShe made several attempts to organize working class women. But soon they started asking her for advice in sexual matters, asking her questions like \"Do I always have to when my husband wants to?\", \"What can I do to avoid getting pregnant?\".\n\nBy the end of the First World War, Ottar met and developed a close friendship with the Swedish anarcho-syndicalist peace agitator Albert Jensen. They later married, and Elise Ottesen changed her surname to Ottesen-Jensen. When Albert Jensen was expelled from Norway, she came with him to Denmark. There, she gave birth to their child, who died soon after birth.\n\nOttar and Albert moved to Sweden, and she came to know a doctor who amongst other things taught her how to use a diaphragm. She then set out for her first nationwide tour, in Sweden. She travelled from Skåne to Norrland, teaching female workers how to avoid pregnancy. She agitated for the right for women to experience sexual pleasure, for free abortion, for the repealing of the laws against contraceptives, for gay rights, and more. What she did was illegal and she risked harsh penalties.\n\nIn the 1920s, Ottar was a regular writer for Arbetaren, with her own column focusing on feminist issues. After a disagreements with the other editors of Arbetaren in 1925, she started her own paper, \"Vi kvinnor\". The paper did however not last for long. A few years later, she also wrote for the anarchist magazine Brand.\n\nIn 1933, Ottar, together with a number of radical medical doctors and trade union representatives, founded the Swedish Association for Sexuality Education (, RFSU). She became its first President, and held this post until 1956. Ottesen-Jensen was also one of the founders of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), in 1953. A paper published by RFSU bears the name \"Ottar\", to honour Elise Ottesen-Jensen. This paper changed its name to \"Ottar\" in 2001, and was earlier known as \"RFSU bulletin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21694803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21694803", "title": "Engineering education in Taiwan", "text": "Engineering education in Taiwan\n\nEngineering is one of the most popular majors among universities in Taiwan. The engineering degrees are over a quarter of the bachelor's degrees in Taiwan. Because high-technology manufacturing is the main industry in Taiwan, there are many career opportunities for engineering majors in the country.\n\nOut of the top fifty popular majors in Taiwanese Universities, there are eleven engineering majors in the list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "354800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354800", "title": "Equality of outcome", "text": "Equality of outcome\n\nEquality of outcome, equality of condition, or equality of results is a political concept which is central to some political ideologies and is used regularly in political discourse, often in contrast to the term equality of opportunity. It describes a state in which people have approximately the same material wealth and income, or in which the general economic conditions of their lives are alike. Achieving equal results generally entails reducing or eliminating material inequalities between individuals or households in a society and usually involves a transfer of income or wealth from wealthier to poorer individuals, or adopting other measures to promote equality of condition. A related way of defining equality of outcome is to think of it as \"equality in the central and valuable things in life\". One account in the \"Journal of Political Philosophy\" suggested that the term meant \"equalising where people end up rather than where or how they begin\", but described this sense of the term as \"simplistic\" since it failed to identify what was supposed to be made equal.\n\nEquality of outcome is often compared to related concepts of equality, particularly with equality of opportunity. Generally, most senses of the concept of equality are controversial and are seen differently by people having different political perspectives, but of all of the terms relating to equality, equality of outcome is the most \"controversial\" or \"contentious\".\n\n\nIn political philosophy, there are differing views whether equal outcomes are beneficial or not. One view is that there is a moral basis for equality of outcome, but that means to achieve such an outcome can be malevolent. Equality of outcome can be a good thing after it has been achieved since it reflects the natural \"interdependence of citizens in a highly organized economy\" and provides a \"basis for social policies\" which foster harmony and good will, including social cohesion and reduced jealousy. One writer suggested greater socioeconomic equality was \"indispensable if we want to realise our shared commonsense values of societal fairness\". In his 1987 book \"The Passion for Equality\", analyst Kenneth Cauthen suggested that there were moral underpinnings for having equal outcomes because there is a common good—which people both contribute to and receive benefits from—and therefore should be enjoyed in common. Cauthen argued that this was a fundamental basis for both equality of opportunity as well as equality of outcome. Writing in the journal \"Foreign Affairs\", analyst George Packer argued that \"inequality undermines democracy\" in the United States partially because it \"hardens society into a class system, imprisoning people in the circumstances of their birth\". Packer elaborated that inequality \"corrodes trust among fellow citizens\" and compared it to an \"odorless gas which pervades every corner\" of the nation.\n\nAn opposing view is that equality of outcomes is not beneficial overall for society since it dampens motivation necessary for humans to achieve great things, such as new inventions, intellectual discoveries and artistic breakthroughs. According to this view, economic wealth and social status are rewards needed to spur such activity and with these rewards diminished, then achievements which will ultimately benefit everybody will not happen as frequently.\n\nIf equality of outcomes is seen as beneficial for society and if people have differing levels of material wealth and social prestige in the present, then methods to transform a society towards one with greater equality of outcomes is problematic. A mainstream view is that mechanisms to achieve equal outcomes—to take a society and with unequal socioeconomic levels and force it to equal outcomes—are fraught with moral as well as practical problems since they often involve political coercion to compel the transfer.\nThere is also general agreement that outcomes matter. In one report in Britain, unequal outcomes in terms of personal wealth had a strong impact on average life expectancy, such that wealthier people tended to live seven years longer than poorer people and that egalitarian nations tended to have fewer problems with societal issues such as mental illness, violence, teenage pregnancy and other social problems. Authors of the book \"The Spirit Level\" contended that \"more equal societies almost always do better\" on other measures and as a result striving for equal outcomes can have overall beneficial effects for everybody.\n\nIn his \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971), philosopher John Rawls developed a \"second principle of justice\" that economic and social inequalities can only be justified if they benefit the most disadvantaged members of society. Rawls further claims that all economically and socially privileged positions must be open to all people equally. Rawls argues that the inequality between a doctor's salary and a grocery clerk's is only acceptable if this is the only way to encourage the training of sufficient numbers of doctors, preventing an unacceptable decline in the availability of medical care (which would therefore disadvantage everyone). Writing in \"The New York Times\", analyst Paul Krugman agreed with Rawls' position in which both equality of opportunity and equality of outcome were linked and suggested that \"we should try to create the society each of us would want if we didn’t know in advance who we’d be\". Krugman favored a society in which hard-working and talented people can get rewarded for their efforts, but in which there was a \"social safety net\" created by taxes to help the less fortunate.\n\nThe German economist and philosopher Karl Marx is sometimes mistakenly characterized as an egalitarian and a proponent of equality of outcome and the economic systems of socialism and communism are sometimes misconstrued as being based on equality of outcome. In reality, Marx eschewed the entire concept of equality as abstract and bourgeois in nature, focusing his analysis on more concrete issues such as opposition to exploitation based on economic and materialist logic. Marx renounced theorizing on moral concepts and refrained from advocating principles of justice. Marx's views on equality were informed by his analysis of the development of the productive forces in society.\n\nSocialism is based on a principle of distribution whereby individuals receive compensation proportional to the amount of energy and labor they contribute to production (\"To each according to his contribution\"), which by definition precludes equal outcomes in income distribution.\n\nIn Marxist theory, communism is based on a principle whereby access to goods and services is based on free and open access (often referred to as distribution based on one's needs in the literature); Marx stressed free access to the articles of consumption. The \"equality\" in a communist society is thus not about total equality or equality of outcome, but about equal and free access to the articles of consumption. Marx argued that free access to consumption would enable individuals to overcome alienation.\n\nDespite this, socialists, communists and Marxists believe that by eliminating exploitation their respective principle of compensation will lead to emancipation and greater equality than that found in capitalism because there would be no inequality arising from private ownership of productive property.\n\nPerhaps the most insistent proponent of equality of outcome in modern political discourse was Fabian socialist, political thinker and dramatist Bernard Shaw (1856–1950). As opposed to Marxists, Shaw would have socialists place more emphasis on distribution rather than production. He developed his ideas on economic equality (and its implications for social, democratic, legal, military and gender concerns) in lectures and articles in the ten years following the writing of his 1905 play on poverty and power, \"Major Barbara\", at the same time as his Fabian colleague Beatrice Webb as primary author of the 1909 Minority Report on the Poor Law, along with her husband Sidney Webb, was proposing to abolish poverty in industrial societies by introducing what we now call the welfare state. In the 1907 preface to \"Major Barbara\", Shaw was probably the first to argue for what he called \"Universal Pensions for Life\", now known as universal incomes. Following major lectures on equality in 1910 and 1913, he gave his fullest exposition of economic equality in a series of six highly publicized Fabian public lectures at the end of 1914, “On Redistribution of Income”—a phrase, as he put it at the time, that he wanted to get into circulation. Although largely unacknowledged, most of the terms of the equality debate since (such as, for example, John Rawls and many recent writers on inequality) are as outlined in some detail in Shaw’s 1914 series of lectures, where he argued for a gradual incremental process towards equal incomes, mostly by levelling-up from the bottom though union activity and labor laws, minimum and basic incomes as well as by using such mechanisms as income and wealth (inheritance) taxes to prevent incomes rising at the top. In the end, the goal would have been achieved not at absolute equality, but when any remaining income differences would not yield any significant social difference. Like the later Fabian, W. H. Tawney, who further developed the equality debate, Shaw considered equality of opportunity as virtually meaningless without economic equality. Shaw later expanded his pre-World War One work on equality into his 1928 political magnum opus, \"The Intelligent Woman’s Guide to Socialism and Capitalism\".\n\nEquality of outcome and equality of opportunity have been contrasted to a great extent. When evaluated in a simple context, the more preferred term in contemporary political discourse is equality of opportunity (or, meaning the same thing, the common variant \"equal opportunities\"), which the public as well as individual commentators see as the nicer or more \"well-mannered\" of the two terms. The term equality of outcome is seen as more controversial and is viewed skeptically. A mainstream political view is that the comparison of the two terms is valid, but that they are somewhat mutually exclusive in the sense that striving for either type of equality would require sacrificing the other to an extent and that achieving equality of opportunity necessarily brings about \"certain inequalities of outcome\". For example, striving for equal outcomes might require discriminating between groups to achieve these outcomes; or striving for equal opportunities in some types of treatment might lead to unequal results. Policies that seek an equality of outcome often require a deviation from the strict application of concepts such as meritocracy and legal notions of equality before the law for all citizens. Equality seeking policies may also have a redistributive focus.\n\nHowever, the two concepts are not always cleanly contrasted since the notion of equality is complex. Some analysts see the two concepts not as polar opposites but as highly related such that they can not be understood without considering the other term. One writer suggested it was unrealistic to think about equality of opportunity in isolation without considering inequalities of income and wealth. Another agreed that it is impossible to understand equality without some assessment of outcomes. A third writer suggested that trying to pretend that the two concepts were \"fundamentally different\" was an error along the lines of a conceit.\n\nIn contemporary political discourse, of the two concepts equality of outcome has sometimes been criticized as the \"politics of envy\" and is often seen as more \"controversial\" than equality of opportunity. One wrote that \"equality of opportunity is then set up as the mild-mannered alternative to the craziness of outcome equality\". One theorist suggested that an over-emphasis on either type of equality can \"come into conflict with individual freedom and merit\".\n\nCritics of equality of opportunity note that while it is relatively easier to deal with unfairness for people with different races or genders, it is much harder to deal with social class since \"one can never entirely extract people from their ancestry and upbringing\". As a result, critics contend that efforts to bring fairness by equal opportunity are stymied by the difficulty of people having differing starting points at the beginning of the socio-economic competition. A person born into an upper-middle-class family will have greater advantages by the mere fact of birth than a person born into poverty.\n\nOne newspaper account criticized discussion by politicians on the subject of equality as \"weasely\" and thought that the term was politically correct and vague. Furthermore, when comparing equality of opportunity with equality of outcome, the sense was that the latter type was \"worse\" for society. Equality of outcome may be incorporated into a philosophy that ultimately seeks equality of opportunity. Moving towards a higher equality of outcome (albeit not perfectly equal) can lead to an environment more adept at providing equality of opportunity by eliminating conditions that restrict the possibility for members of society to fulfill their potential. For example, a child born in a poor, dangerous neighborhood with poor schools and little access to healthcare may be significantly disadvantaged in his attempts to maximize use of talents, no matter how fine his work ethic. Thus even proponents of meritocracy may promote some level of equality of outcome in order to create a society capable of truly providing equality of opportunity.\n\nWhile outcomes can usually be measured with a great degree of precision, it is much more difficult to measure the intangible nature of opportunities. That is one reason why many proponents of equal opportunity use measures of equality of outcome to judge success. Analyst Anne Phillips argued that the proper way to assess the effectiveness of the hard-to-measure concept of equality of opportunity is by the extent of the equality of outcome. Nevertheless, she described a single criterion of equality of outcome as problematic—the measure of \"preference satisfaction\" was \"ideologically loaded\" while other measures such as income or wealth were inadequate and she advocated an approach which combined data about resources, occupations and roles.\n\nTo the extent that inequalities can be passed from one generation to another through tangible gifts and wealth inheritance, some claim that equality of opportunity for children cannot be achieved without equality of outcome for parents. Moreover, access to social institutions is affected by equality of outcome and it is further claimed that rigging equality of outcome can be a way to prevent co-option of non-economic institutions important to social control and policy formation, such as the legal system, media or the electoral process, by powerful individuals or coalitions of wealthy people.\n\nPurportedly, greater equality of outcome is likely to reduce relative poverty, leading to a more cohesive society. However, if taken to an extreme it may lead to greater absolute poverty, if it negatively affects a country's GDP by damaging workers' sense of work ethic by destroying incentives to work harder. Critics of equality of outcome believe that it is more important to raise the standard of living of the poorest in absolute terms. Some critics additionally disagree with the concept of equality of outcome on philosophical grounds. Still others note that poor people of low social status often have a drive, hunger and ambition which ultimately lets them achieve better economic and social outcomes than their initially more advantaged rivals.\n\nA related argument that is often encountered in education, especially in the debates on the grammar school in the United Kingdom and in the debates on gifted education in various countries, says that people by nature have differing levels of ability and initiative which result in some achieving better outcomes than others and it is therefore impossible to ensure equality of outcome without imposing inequality of opportunity.\n\nThe concept of equality of outcome is an important one in battling between differing political positions since the concept of equality was overall seen as positive and an important foundation which is \"deeply embedded in the fabric of modern politics\". There is much political jousting over what exactly equality means. It is not a new phenomenon; battling between so-called haves and have-nots has happened throughout human civilization and was a focus of philosophers such as Aristotle in his treatise \"Politics\". In \"The Guardian\", analyst Julian Gloverrote wrote that equality challenged both left-leaning and right-leaning positions and suggested that the task of left-leaning advocates is to \"understand the impossibility and undesirability of equality\" while the task for right-leaning advocates was to \"realise that a divided and hierarchical society cannot – in the best sense of that word – be fair\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11604463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604463", "title": "Estonian national awakening", "text": "Estonian national awakening\n\nThe Estonian Age of Awakening () is a period in history where Estonians came to acknowledge themselves as a nation deserving the right to govern themselves. This period is considered to begin in the 1850s with greater rights being granted to commoners and to end with the declaration of the Republic of Estonia in 1918. The term is sometimes also applied to the period around 1987–1988.\nAlthough Estonian national consciousness spread in the course of the 19th century, some degree of ethnic awareness in the literate middle class preceded this development. By the 18th century the self-denomination \"eestlane\" along with the older \"maarahvas\" spread among Estonians in the then provinces of Estonia and Livonia of the Russian Empire. The Bible was translated in 1739, and the number of books and brochures published in Estonian increased from 18 in the 1750s to 54 in the 1790s. By the end of the century more than half of adult peasants were able to read. The first university-educated intellectuals identifying themselves as Estonians, including Friedrich Robert Faehlmann (1798–1850), Kristjan Jaak Peterson (1801–1822) and Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald (1803–1882), came to prominence in the 1820s. The ruling elite had remained predominantly German in language and culture since the conquest of the early 13th century. Garlieb Merkel (1769–1850), a Baltic German Estophile, was the first author to treat the Estonians as a nationality equal to others; he became a source of inspiration for the Estonian national movement, modelled on Baltic German cultural world before the middle of the 19th century. However, in the middle of the century the Estonians, with such leaders as Carl Robert Jakobson (1841–1882), Jakob Hurt (1839–1907) and Johann Voldemar Jannsen (1819–1890), became more ambitious in their political demands and started leaning towards the Finns as a successful model of national movement and, to some extent, the neighbouring Young Latvian national movement. Significant accomplishments were the publication of the national epic, \"Kalevipoeg\", in 1862, and the organization of the first national song festival in 1869. By the end of the 1860s the Estonians became unwilling to remain reconciled with German cultural and political hegemony. Before the attempts at Russification in the 1880s–1890s their view of Imperial Russia remained positive.\nIn 1881 seventeen Estonian societies, in a memorandum inspired by Carl Robert Jakobson, called upon Emperor Alexander III of Russia for the introduction of \"zemstvo\" institutions (which had already existed in most parts of the Empire), with equal representation for Estonians and Baltic Germans and administrative unification of the ethnic Estonian areas. \"Postimees\", the first Estonian daily, began appearing in 1891. According to the 1897 census, the Estonians had the second highest literacy rate in the Russian Empire after the Finns in the Grand Duchy of Finland (96.1% of the Estonian-speaking population of the Baltic Provinces 10 years and older, roughly equally for males and females). The cities became Estonicized quickly, and in 1897 ethnic Estonians comprised two-thirds of the total Estonian urban population.\n\nIn response to a period of Russification initiated by the Russian empire in the 1880s, Estonian nationalism took on even more political tones, with intellectuals calling for greater autonomy. As the Russian Revolution of 1905 swept through Estonia, the Estonians called for freedom of the press and assembly, for universal franchise, and for national autonomy. Estonian gains were minimal, but the tense stability that prevailed between 1905 and 1917 allowed Estonians to advance the aspiration of national statehood. Following the February Revolution of 1917 Estonian lands were for the first time united in one administrative unit, the autonomous Governorate of Estonia. After the Bolshevik takeover of power in Russia in the October Revolution of 1917 and the German victories against the Russian army, Estonia declared itself an independent republic on 24 February 1918.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40043087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40043087", "title": "Eytan Pessen", "text": "Eytan Pessen\n\nEytan Pessen (born 30 August 1961 in Haifa, Israel) is a pianist, voice teacher and coach. He was former opera director of the Semperoper in Dresden, artistic advisor to Teatro Massimo in Palermo, Teatro San Carlo in Naples, and former casting director of the Staatstheater Stuttgart.\n\nBorn in Haifa, Israel, to parents of German heritage, he studied Piano (with Dr. Nilly Shilo, Walter Aufhauser, Irina Zaritskaya and Dina Turgeman), composition (with Andre Hajdu and Daniel V. Oppenheim), and musicology at the Tel-Aviv University Rubin Academy, with a Bachelor of Music, summa cum Laude, in 1983, and a Masters of Music, magna cum laude, in 1984. Further Piano studies at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia with Vladimir Sokoloff, (voice studies at Curtis with Robert Grooters), and at the Juilliard School in New York with Marshal Williamson, Margo Garrett and Alberta Masiello. In New York he worked as pianist and coach for the Metropolitan Opera young artist's programme.\n\nAs head of music staff and the casting director at the Stuttgart Opera in Germany, he worked under the German Dramaturge-Intendant Klaus Zehelein and Co-Intendant Pamela Rosenberg. When she left for San Francisco in 2001, he became casting director. In Stuttgart, Pessen launched the international carriers of conductors Constantinos Carydis, Nicola Luisotti, Carlo Montanaro and Robin Ticciati. Singers Lucas Meachem and Eva-Maria Westbroek began their international careers during his Stuttgart tenure as well. Other guest artists were Brandon Jovanovich, Catherine Naglestad and Jonas Kaufmann, who explored Italian repertoire as Barbiere-Almaviva, Rodolfo and Alfredo. In Stuttgart Pessen promoted a series of unknown baroque and classic works, and conceived the chamber music series for the orchestra at the Mozart-Saal, which is still running today.\nUnder Zehelein’s leadership the Stuttgart Opera won the \"Opera house of the year\" award of European critics six times during the fifteen years.\n\nEytan Pessen was artistic advisor to the RUHR.2010 cultural festival under music director Steven Sloane. An intense collaboration ensued with the composer Hans Werner Henze, 2010 became a year-long Hans Werner Henze project, which spanned many cities, opera and ballet companies as well as symphony orchestras and chamber music groups. Henze wrote his last opera, \"Gisela!\" For the RUHR.2010 (an opera for and about youth, premiered at the RuhrTriennale).\n\nAs opera director of the Semperoper, he invited the composer Hans Werner Henze and the director Stefan Herheim to return each season for different projects. He chose to collaborate with a young generation of directors including Bettina Bruinier, Jan Phillip Gloger, Florentine Klepper, Axel Köhler, Michael Schulz, Elisabeth Stöppler und Manfred Weiss.\n\nInterested in the artistic benefits of a stable ensemble working together over a long period, he chose to extend the Ensemble and the young ensemble (the Dresden opera’s studio programme) rather than invest in established guests.\nAmong the artists he brought to Dresden as permanent members of the ensemble are Giorgio Beruggi, Scott Connor, Emily Dorn, Vanessa Goikoexea, Evan Hughes, Pavol Kuban, Christopher Magiera, Amanda Majeski, Marjorie Owens, Barbara Senator, Tichina Vaughn, Rachel Willis-Sørensen, Sebastian Wartig and Elizabeth Zharoff.\nConductors that made their debut in Dresden include Josep Caballé Domenech, Julia Jones (conductor), Nicola Luisotti, Michele Mariotti, Carlo Montanaro, Pier Giorgio Morandi, Henrik Nánási, Daniel Oren and Omer Meir Wellber. Pessen widened the repertory span to include commissions from and Lucia Ronchetti, as well as Karl Amadeus Hartmann’s \"Simplicius Simplicissimus\", Jaromir Weinberger’s \"Svanda Dudák\", (\"Schwanda the Bagpiper\"), Kurt Weill’s \"Street Scene (opera)\", Hans Werner Henze’s \"Gisela!\" and \"We Come to the River\".\nFor this performance the famous theatre interior (by the architect Gottfried Semper) was completely rebuilt with three vast set parts (designed by Rebecca Ringst and Anette Hunger) jutting into the audience space and reaching up toward the balcony. \n\nFor the Wagner year 2013 he conceived a mini-festival that explored Richard Wagner’s development years in Dresden, combining Wagner's \"The Flying Dutchman\" with Gaspare Spontini's \"La Vestale\" and Halevy’s \"La Juive\".\n\nOpening up the Semperoper to the general public, he often wrote essays and editorials; in one case counting the calories burnt going to different operas, or imagining a conversation with the Gargoyles decorating the new building of the Semperoper. For the programme notes of Alcina he wrote a poem describing the first performance of Alcina through the eyes of a young boy.\n\nEytan Pessen now teaches voice and piano at the Opera Academy of the Grand Theatre, Warsaw (Teatr Wielki i Opera Narodowa w Warszawie), as well as numerous workshops for ENOA.\n\nSince 2007 he has been teaching at the Theaterakademie in Munich, since 2008 at the Frankfurt Opera, since 2014 at the IOS in Zürich.\n\nHe often gives masterclasses for singers, pianists and accompanists at the Académie of the Paris national opera, Les Azuriales festival, Meistersinger Akademie in Neumarkt, the Scuola d’Opera in Bologna Duszniki Zdroj, Oberlin in Italy, San Francisco Opera, North Carolina School of Arts, New Israeli Opera, Vinterakademi Voksenåsen (Oslo), the Mikhailovsky theatre in Saint Petersburg and the theatres of Stuttgart, Graz and Dresden.\n\nPessen performs in recitals and concerts with Giorgio Berrugi, Emily Dorn, Gala El Hadidi, Andrzej Filończyk, Armelle Arménouhi Khourdoïan, Pawel Konik, Maciej Kwaśnikowski, Keith Lewis, Amanda Majeski, Markus Marquardt, Danylo Matviienko, Christa Mayer, Paula Murrihy, Marjorie Owens, Michał Partyka, Christoph Pohl, Matthias Rexroth, Katharina Ruckgaber, Iurii Samoilov, Michal Shamir, Merto Sungu, Mikołaj Trąbka, Tichina Vaughn, Eva-Maria Westbroek, Rachel Willis-Sørensen and Jan Żądło.\n\nWith Motti Kastón and Helene Schneiderman he produced a CD of songs in Jiddish and Ladino. Recent appearances include the Concertgebouw Amsterdam, Rheingau Musikfestival, Bochum Symphony, and the theatres of Darmstadt, Frankfurt, Stuttgart and Dresden, the Rossini in Wildbad Festival, the Miskolc Festival, as well as radio broadcasts NDR Hamburg, DeutschlandRadio Berlin, the Berlin Philharmonie and Stuttgart opera.\n\nHe was jury member of the Stanislav Moniuszko competition in Warschau, Antonina Campi International Voice competition in Lublin, Concorso Voci Verdiane Busseto, the Belvedere competition in Vienna, as well as the Marcello Giordani competition in Catania, the Aviv competition in Tel Aviv, Concorso Internationale di Assisi and Concorso Aslico in Como, The year 2011 he was artistic advisor for the Teatro San Carlo in Naples and from December 2012 to 2014, was advisor to Teatro Massimo in Palermo, where he programmed Richard Strauss’ Feuersnot, Jaromír Weinberger's Schwanda the Bagpiper and Hans Werner Henze's Gisela!.\n\n\nPoems\n\nEssays(selection)\n\n\nYiddish\n\n\nFolk\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "13220262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13220262", "title": "Florida Institute of CPAs", "text": "Florida Institute of CPAs\n\nThe Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants (FICPA) is a professional membership organization headquartered in Tallahassee. The FICPA represents approximately 18,500 CPAs and accounting professionals in Florida and beyond. Deborah Curry, CPA, CGMA, is the FICPA's President/CEO and Alan West, CPA, is the Institute's 2017-2018 Board Chair.\n\nThe FICPA provides opportunities for professional development, knowledge sharing, networking, community involvement, leadership and camaraderie while lobbying the Florida Legislature on issues that affect CPAs and promoting the CPA designation. The FICPA also works closely with the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation to warn the public from using unlicensed CPAs. It is also one of the 11 nonprofit members of the Federation of Schools of Accountancy.\n\nIn December 2014, Forbes listed FICPA number 19 on The 100 Must-Follow Tax Twitter Feeds.\n\nThe FICPA was founded in 1905.\n\nWalter Mucklow, T.G. Hutchinson and two other Florida accountants envisioned an association that would promote the exchange of ideas; enhance confidence in public accountants among businessmen; and encourage a high standard of efficiency in the science of accounting and the art of bookkeeping. These four men lobbied the Legislature and pushed through the first accountancy law in the Southern states. They created an accountancy exam.\n\nFLORIDA SOCIETY OF ACCOUNTANTS: In April 20, 1905, they organized into a group of accountants under the name of the FLORIDA SOCIETY OF ACCOUNTANTS.\n\nOne of the first acts of the newly formed Society was the publication of a pamphlet describing the objectives of the Society, which were:\n1. To promote a higher standard of efficiency in the science of accounting and the art of bookkeeping.\n2. To bring together those interested directly or indirectly in matters of accounting, to promote the exchange of ideas, and to encourage mutual assistance between members.\n3. To encourage the adoption of improved methods and to secure uniformity in matters of accounting.\n4. To promote confidence between the public accountant, the bookkeeper, and the man of business.\n\nFIRST ACCOUNTANCY LAW: \nFor its first activity, the Society directed the collective energies of its members towards securing passage of an accountancy law. This was no easy task; while few states had such laws, none had been passed in any of the Southern States.\n\nThe principal efforts towards securing passage of the accountancy law were expanded by the Society's special legislative committee, composed of T.G. Hutchinson and John A. Hansbrough. Governor Napoleon B. Broward signed Florida's first accountancy act on June 5, 1905 and Florida became the eighth state in the Union to pass an accountancy law, being preceded by New York, 1896; Pennsylvania, 1899; Maryland, 1900; California, 1901; Illinois, 1903; Washington, 1903; and New Jersey, 1904.\n\nA relatively simple Florida law, the 1905 accountancy act set up a three-member State Board of Accountancy and prescribed its powers and duties to provide for the examination of qualified accountants and to provide penalties for violations. The Board also was authorized to grant certificates to those candidates who passed the prescribed tests. The first State Board of Accountancy appointed by Governor Broward was composed of Mucklow, E.I. Matthews and George R. DeSaussure. The Board immediately began to function and granted its first five certificates.\n\nFLORIDA SOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS: As interest and activity in accountancy increased, the members of the Florida Society of Accountants gradually arrived at the decision to restrict membership to Certified Public Accountants. This necessitated the reorganization of the group under the new name of the FLORIDA SOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS in 1916. Membership in the Society was limited to American citizens who held Certified Public Accountant certificates, issue by any State and who had been in continuous practice for themselves or in the office a public accountant for three years. Associate membership was limited to Certified Public Accountants who had not been in practice for three years.\n\nThe period from 1917 to 1923 was one of little activity for the Society's affairs. World War I and economic adjustments that occurred shortly after that conflict claimed most of the accounting profession's attention. The Florida Boom of the early 1920s left members with little time to advance the public accounting profession through Society activities.\n\nSOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS IN FLORIDA: The Society reorganized in 1924 under the name SOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS IN FLORIDA. Officers were Walter Mucklow, president' T.G. Hutchinson and John A. Hansbrough, vice-presidents; J.M. Jordan, secretary; and Robert Pentland, treasurer. The Society had 20 members in total.\n\nA NEW ACCOUNTANCY LAW: \nEarly in 1927, serious thought was given to the ethics of the profession, including such matters as advertising and solicitation of accounting work. It was decided that the accountancy law should be amended or rewritten. A revised accountancy law was approved by the Governor to become effective July 1, 1927. The adoption of revised accountancy law attracted not only the attention of Florida accountants but that of practitioners around the nation.\n\nIn 1928, the Society was officially incorporated under the name FLORIDA INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANTS.\n\nFLORIDA INSTITUTE OF CPAs: In 1955, the Florida Society of Certified Public Accountants was renamed the Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants (FICPA). At the time, there were 811 members and 350 candidates sat for the CPA exam.\n\nWith interests in building a governmental relations program, the Board of Governors voted in 1979 to relocate the FICPA's headquarters to Tallahassee, Florida. In 1985, the FICPA moved into its new, official headquarters within walking distance of the Florida State Capitol. Four years later, the building was expanded.\n\nWhen it celebrated its 100-year anniversary on April 20, 2005, it represented more than 18,400 CPAs throughout Florida. Authors Lloyd \"Buddy\" Turman and Heidi Tyline King published a paperback book titled \"FICPA: Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants\" in 2005 commemorating the milestone.\n\nThe FICPA aims to uphold the high standards of the accounting profession and ensure its continued growth and success. The organization employs 65 association professionals, who focus on programs to enhance members' competency and professionalism; support standards of independence, integrity and objectivity that also are in the public interest; promote community involvement; and monitor and actively participate in the public policy-making process.\n\n\"Chairs\"\n\n\"Presidents\"\n\nAffiliation with the FICPA represents commitment to the CPA profession, including adherence to the Code of Professional Conduct and to a stringent set of professional and technical standards. In addition to ensuring that standards are met, the FICPA provides information and resources that enable CPAs to enhance the quality of their services.\n\nPublications such as \"Florida CPA Today\", the FICPA's bi-monthly magazine and \"NewsFlash\", the Institute's electronic newsletter, update members and invite CPAs to share their expertise on important professional and public issues with members of the business community, the media and the public.\n\nThe FICPA has eight fundamental objectives around which all of its activities, benefits and services revolve. Its website states those objectives as:\n\nWith more than 19,500 members, the Florida Institute of CPAs is one of the largest CPA organizations in the United States.\n\nThe FICPA serves Florida CPAs from all areas of practice, including public accounting, industry and government. The Institute also provides specialized membership to meet the needs of accounting professionals who are not yet certified, accounting educators, professional affiliates, accounting firm administrators and students.\n\nThe FICPA membership is organized through 26 chapters across Florida. These chapters are further grouped into six geographical regions. Each region and the chapters within that region hold and promote programming of local interest and provide a conduit for communication with the FICPA leadership. Participation in local chapters provides members with the opportunity to develop leadership skills by taking an active role in both the Institute and the profession.\n\nMembers of the FICPA may also participate in leadership through the organization's 31 committees to help facilitate networking, community outreach, conference-planning, professional development and information dissemination.\n\nAs a committee of the FICPA, the Young CPA Committee (YCPA) is geared towards developing ways to engage young CPAs (age 35 and under) in the accounting profession.\n\nThe Young CPA Committee's goals are to provide increased networking opportunities for young CPAs by developing and promoting strong local YCPA organizations across the state; organize and support philanthropic events sponsored by YCPA organizations across the state; and to encourage other young CPAs to get involved with the FICPA and the profession as a whole.\n\nThe FICPA serves as a liaison for the CPA profession with various legislative and regulatory agencies in Florida. The FICPA's Governmental Affairs team helps develop annual proposed legislative and regulatory policies; monitors state legislation and regulatory actions; lobbies on behalf of the FICPA; and communicates changes to FICPA members. Fourth-generation Floridian and FSU graduate, Justin Thames is the current Director of Governmental Affairs.\n\nThe CPA/PAC is an entity completely separate from the FICPA. It is supported solely by the voluntary contributions of the FICPA's members and others. The objective of the Florida CPA/PAC is to help protect the trust, confidence and esteem the CPA certificate holds in the public's eye.\n\nIn 2001, the Florida CPA/PAC was separated into three geographic regions. Each chapter is \"nested\" into one of the three regions. Members are assigned to one of the three regional CPA/PACs based on geographic location:\n\nThe FICPA helps CPAs meet continuing professional education requirements by coordinating hundreds of in-person events across Florida as well as webcasts, webinars and on-demand courses. The Florida Board of Accountancy requires license holders to complete 80 hours of CPE for each re-establishment period, including at least 20 hours of accounting and auditing credit and four hours of ethics credit. The Florida Board of Accountancy has designated the FICPA can provide ethics courses and is a Continuing Education Ethics Provider.\n\nThe Florida Institute of CPAs is registered with the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy as a Quality Assurance Service sponsor of continuing professional education.\n\nThe FICPA Educational Foundation, Inc., is a not-for-profit organization that raises money to provide scholarships and educational programs to and for Florida’s prospective and current accounting students.\n\nEstablished in 1959, the FICPA Educational Foundation has provided more than $3 million in scholarships and education programs to support Florida's accounting students. Through the donations of FICPA members, the Foundation continues to provide more than $200,000 a year in scholarships to assist Florida’s future CPA leaders.\n\nScholarships are coordinated with Florida Colleges and Universities, including:\n\nState Universities\n\n\nOther Colleges and Universities\n\n\n\nReferences: \n"}
{"id": "2882692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882692", "title": "Freshers' Flu", "text": "Freshers' Flu\n\nFreshers' Flu (or uncapitalised as freshers' flu) is a British English name commonly given to a battery of illnesses contracted by new students during the first few weeks at a university and colleges of further education in some form; common symptoms include fever, sore throat, severe headache, coughing and general discomfort. The illnesses may or may not include actual flu and is often simply a bad cold, but is so named simply due to alliteration. The term is British and is rarely heard outside the UK and Ireland.\n\nThe most likely cause is the convergence of large numbers of people arriving from all over the world, many of whom carry pathogens to which they are immune, but others have not had a chance to acquire the necessary immunity. The poor diet and heavy consumption of alcohol during Freshers' Week is also reported as a cause for many of the illnesses contracted during this time. \"Stress, which may be induced by tiredness, combined with a poor diet, late nights and too much alcohol, can weaken the immune system and be a recipe for ill health. All this can make students and staff working with the students more susceptible to infections within their first weeks of term.\" In addition to this, nearly all university academic years in the UK commence around the end of September or beginning of October, which \"marks the start of the annual flu season\". The increased susceptibility to illness from late nights, heavy alcohol consumption and stress peaks 2–4 weeks after arrival at university and happens to coincide with the seasonal surge in the outbreaks of colds and influenza in the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nAs well as the usual viral effects, Freshers' Flu can also have some psychological effects. These effects arise where the stress of leaving home and other consequences of being independent, not to mention various levels of homesickness and the attempts at making new friends, can further weaken the immune system, increasing susceptibility to illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "76252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76252", "title": "Gottfried Semper", "text": "Gottfried Semper\n\nGottfried Semper (; 29 November 1803 – 15 May 1879) was a German architect, art critic, and professor of architecture, who designed and built the Semper Opera House in Dresden between 1838 and 1841. In 1849 he took part in the May Uprising in Dresden and was put on the government's wanted list. Semper fled first to Zürich and later to London. Later he returned to Germany after the 1862 amnesty granted to the revolutionaries.\n\nSemper wrote extensively about the origins of architecture, especially in his book \"The Four Elements of Architecture\" from 1851, and he was one of the major figures in the controversy surrounding the polychrome architectural style of ancient Greece. Semper designed works at all scales, from major urban interventions like the re-design of the Ringstraße in Vienna, to a baton for Richard Wagner. His unrealised design for an opera house in Munich was adapted by Wagner for the Bayreuth Festspielhaus.\n\nSemper was born into a well-to-do industrialist family in Altona. The fifth of eight children, he attended the Gelehrtenschule des Johanneums in Hamburg before starting his university education at Göttingen in 1823, where he studied historiography and mathematics. He subsequently studied architecture in 1825 at the University of Munich under Friedrich von Gärtner. In 1826, Semper travelled to Paris in order to work for the architect Franz Christian Gau, and he was present when the July Revolution of 1830 broke out. Between 1830 and 1833 he travelled to Italy and Greece in order to study the architecture and designs of antiquity. In 1832 he participated for four months in archaeological research at the Acropolis in Athens.\nDuring this period he became very interested in the Biedermeier-inspired polychromy debate, which centred on the question whether buildings in Ancient Greece and Rome had been colorfully painted or not. The drawn reconstructions of the painterly decorations of ancient villas he created in Athens inspired his later designs for the painted decorations in Dresden and Vienna. His 1834 publication \"Vorläufige Bemerkungen über bemalte Architectur und Plastik bei den Alten\" (\"Preliminary Remarks on Polychrome Architecture and Sculpture in Antiquity\"), in which he took a strong position in favor of polychromy - supported by his investigation of pigments on the Trajan's column in Rome - brought him sudden recognition in architectural and aesthetic circles across Europe .\n\nOn September 30, 1834 Semper obtained a post as Professor of Architecture at the Königlichen Akademie der bildenden Künste (today called the Hochschule) in Dresden thanks largely to the efforts and support of his former teacher Franz Christian Gau and swore an oath of allegiance to the King (formerly Elector) of Saxony, Anthony Clement. The flourishing growth of Dresden during this period provided the young architect with considerable creative opportunities. In 1838-40 a synagogue was built in Dresden to Semper's design, it was ever afterward called the Semper Synagogue and is noted for its Moorish Revival interior style. The Synagogue's exterior was built in romanesque style so as not to call attention to itself. The interior design included not only the Moorish inspired wall decorations, but furnishings: specifically, a silver lamp of eternal light, which caught Richard Wagner and his wife Cosima's fancy. They gave a great deal of effort to have a copy of this lamp. Semper's student, Otto Simonson would construct the magnificent Moorish Revival Leipzig synagogue in 1855.\nCertain civic structures remain today, such as the Elbe-facing gallery of the Zwinger Palace complex. His first building for the Dresden Hoftheater burnt down, and the second, today called the Semperoper, was built in 1841. Other buildings also remain indelibly attached to his name, such as the Maternity Hospital, the Synagogue (destroyed during the Third Reich), the Oppenheim Palace, and the \"Villa Rosa\" built for the banker Martin Wilhelm Oppenheim. This last construction stands as a prototype of German villa architecture.\n\nOn September 1, 1835 Semper married Bertha Thimmig. The marriage ultimately produced six children.\n\nA convinced Republican, Semper took a leading role, along with his friend Richard Wagner, in the May 1849 uprising which swept over the city . He was a member of the Civic Guard (Kommunalgarde) and helped to erect barricades in the streets. When the rebellion collapsed, Semper was considered a leading agitator for democratic change and a ringleader against government authority and he was forced to flee the city.\n\nHe was destined never to return to the city that would, ironically, become most associated with his architectural (and political) legacy. The Saxon government maintained a warrant for his arrest until 1863. When the Semper-designed Hoftheater burnt down in 1869, King John, on the urging of the citizenry, commissioned Semper to build a new one. Semper produced the plans, but left the actual construction to his son, Manfred.\n\n\"What must I have done in 48, that one persecutes me forever? One single barricade did I construct - it held, because it was practical, and as it was practical, it was beautiful\", wrote Semper in dismay.\n\nAfter stays in Zwickau, Hof, Karlsruhe and Strasbourg, Semper eventually ended up back in Paris, like many other disillusioned Republicans from the 1848 Revolutions (such as Heinrich Heine and Ludwig Börne). In the fall of 1850, he travelled to London, England. But while he was able to pick up occasional contracts — including participation in the design of the funeral carriage for the Duke of Wellington and the designs of the Canadian, Danish, Swedish, and Ottoman sections of the 1851 Great Exhibition in the Crystal Palace — he found no steady employment. If his stay in London was disappointing professionally, however, it proved a fertile period for Semper's theoretical, creative and academic development. He published \"Die vier Elemente der Baukunst\" (\"The Four Elements of Architecture\") in 1851 and \"Wissenschaft, Industrie und Kunst\" (\"Science, Industry and Art\") in 1852. These works would ultimately provide the groundwork for his most widely regarded publication, \"Der Stil in den technischen und tektonischen Künsten oder Praktische Ästhetik,\" which was published in two volumes in 1861 and 1863.\n\nConcurrently with the onset of the industrial revolution, the Swiss Federation planned to establish a polytechnical school. As the principal judge for the competition held to select a design for the new building, Semper deemed the submitted entries unsatisfactory and, ultimately, designed the building himself. Proudly situated (where fortified walls once stood), visible from all sides on a terrace overlooking the core of Zurich, the new school became a symbol of a new epoch. The building (1853–1864), which despite frequent remodeling continues to evoke Semper's concept, was initially required to accommodate not only the new school (known today as the ETH Zurich), but the existing University of Zurich, as well.\n\nIn 1855 Semper became a professor of architecture at the new school and the success of many of his students who attained success and renown served to ensure his legacy. The Swiss architect Emil Schmid was one such student. With his income as a professor, Semper was able to reunite his family, bringing them to Zurich from Saxony. The City Hall in Winterthur is among other buildings designed by Semper in Switzerland.\n\nSemper provided Bavaria's King Ludwig II with a conceptual design for a theatre dedicated to the work of Richard Wagner to be built in Munich. The project, developed from 1864 to 1866, was never realized, although Wagner 'borrowed' many of its features for his own later theatre at Bayreuth.\n\nAlready in 1833 there were first plans in Vienna for the public presentation of the Imperial Art Collections. With the planning of the Vienna Ring Road, the museum question became pressing again. Works forming the imperial art collection were scattered among several buildings. Semper was assigned to submit a proposal for locating new buildings in conjunction with redevelopment of the Ring Road. In 1869 he designed a gigantic 'Imperial Forum' which was not realized. The National Museum of Art History and the National Museum of Natural History were erected, however, opposite the Palace according to his plan, as was the Burgtheater. In 1871 Semper moved to Vienna to undertake the projects.\nDuring construction, repeated disagreements with his appointed associate architect (Karl Freiherr von Hasenauer), led Semper to resign from the project in 1876. In the following year his health began to deteriorate. He died two years later while on a visit to Italy and is buried in the Protestant Cemetery, Rome.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2731185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2731185", "title": "Haki R. Madhubuti", "text": "Haki R. Madhubuti\n\nHaki R. Madhubuti (born Don Luther Lee on February 23, 1942, in Little Rock, Arkansas, United States) is an African-American author, educator, and poet, as well as a publisher and operator of black-themed bookstore.\n\nMadhubuti is a much sought-after poet and lecturer, and has convened workshops and served as guest/keynote speaker at thousands of colleges, universities, libraries and community centers in the U.S. and abroad.\n\nThe name Haki means \"just\" or \"justice,\" and Madhubuti means \"precise, accurate and dependable,\" both names deriving from the Swahili language. He changed his name in 1974.\n\nHe received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa, and served in the U.S. Army from 1960 to 1963.\n\nMadhubuti is a major contributor to the Black literary tradition, in particular through his early association with the Black Arts Movement beginning in the mid-1960s, and which has had a lasting and major influence, even today.\nA proponent of independent Black institutions, Madhubuti is the founder, publisher, and chairman of the board of Third World Press (established in 1967), which today is the largest independent black-owned press in the United States.\n\nOver the years, he has published 28 books (some under his former name, \"Don L. Lee\") and is one of the world's best-selling authors of poetry and non-fiction, with books in print in excess of 3 million. His \"Black Men: Obsolete, Single, Dangerous?: The African American Family in Transition\" (1990) has sold over 1,000,000 copies. His latest books are \"Claiming Earth: Race, Rage, Rape, Redemption\" (1994), \"GroundWork: New and Selected Poems 1966-1996\" (1996), and \"HeartLove: Wedding and Love Poems\" (1998).\n\nMadhubuti has also co-edited two volumes of literary works from \"Gallery 37\", releasing \"The Spirit\" (1998), and \"Describe the Moment\" (2000). His poetry and essays were published in over 30 anthologies from 1997 to 2001. He also wrote \"Tough Notes: A Healing Call For Creating Exceptional Black Men\" (2002).\n\nBesides co-founding a publishing company, Madhubuti is the co-founder of the Institute of Positive Education/New Concept Development Center (established in 1969), and co-founder of the Betty Shabazz International Charter School (established 1998) in Chicago, Illinois. He is also a founder and board member of the National Association of Black Book Publishers, a founder and chairman of the board of The International Literary Hall of Fame for Writers of African Descent, and founder and director of the National Black Writers Retreat. Prior to stepping down from his position, Madhubuti held the position of Distinguished University Professor, co-founder and director emeritus of the Gwendolyn Brooks Center for Black Literature and Creative Writing and director of the Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing program at Chicago State University.\n\nMadhubuti's latest book, \"Yellow Black\", is an autobiographical novel detailing the first 21 years of his life.\n\nIn December 1967, Haki R. Madhubuti met with Carolyn Rodgers and Johari Amini in the basement of a South Side apartment to found Third World Press, an outlet for African-American literature.\nBy 2007, the company continued, 40 years later, to thrive in a multimillion-dollar facility. Over the years, this press would publish works for Pulitzer Prize-winning author Gwendolyn Brooks, as well as Sonia Sanchez, Sterling Plumpp and Pearl Cleage.\n\n"}
{"id": "14239063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14239063", "title": "JD–MBA", "text": "JD–MBA\n\nA JD/MBA is a dual degree program offered jointly by some law and business schools. The program generally lasts four years (saving one year over completing both degrees separately) and results in the candidate earning both a Juris Doctor degree and a Master of Business Administration degree.\n\nTop ranking Canadian JD-MBA programs include a four-year JD/MBA at Queen's University, the University of Toronto, the three-year JD/MBA at the University of Western Ontario, the three and a half year JD/MBA at the University of Ottawa, and both a three and four-year program at York University. Students may apply to the joint program before matriculating to either program, or after matriculating to either law school or business school.\n\nMany schools including Elon University, Northwestern University, University of Houston, Cornell University, Yale University, New York University, Harvard University, Columbia University, the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, and Villanova University offer the program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38394580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38394580", "title": "Jane's Saddlebag", "text": "Jane's Saddlebag\n\nJane's Saddlebag, located near Big Bone Lick State Park in Union, Kentucky, is a \"hands on\" historic educational experience, complete with the old restored \"Saddlebag\" home, 100-year-old mortise and tenon barn, original stone smokehouse, life size replica of a 1700s-style flatboat, and live farm animals in the petting zoo. The Jane's Saddlebag house was completely refurbished in 2003 and maintains most of its original \"saddlebag\" style qualities.\n\nThe house on the property is a restored historical structure in which preserves its original qualities. The house is a \"saddlebag\" style house, also known as a \"Double-pen\" house. This style of housing is a step up from the normal tenant houses on the larger farms in Kentucky. They are commonly spotted for their characteristic double doors on the front of the house.\nAlso on site, is an original historic smokehouse built of large grey stones. The smokehouse on the property was built in the 1800s and was used by Kentucky farmers to shelter the process of curing their meat.\n\nLocated just behind the Jane's Saddlebag building is a replica of a 1700s flatboat used by the early settlers wanting to travel further west down the river. This flatboat is available for any visitor to tour and view how early settlers would travel the river to their destinations. The flatboat was the cheapest mode of transportation for settlers and was mainly used for shorter one-way trips to their homes and then eventually broken down and used for lumber. The flatboat represents the mode of transportation that the settlers Lewis and Clark used to travel the river. The nearby Big Bone State Park is a Lewis and Clark national historic trail site.\n"}
{"id": "7518027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7518027", "title": "Journal of Chemical Education", "text": "Journal of Chemical Education\n\nThe Journal of Chemical Education is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal available in both print and electronic versions. It is published by the Division of Chemical Education of the American Chemical Society and was established in 1924 by Neil Gordon. The journal covers research on chemical education, and its target audience includes instructors of chemistry from middle school through graduate school and some scientists in commerce, industry, and government.\n"}
{"id": "1239504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239504", "title": "Leadership school", "text": "Leadership school\n\nA leadership school is an organization, or entity within an organization, that provides education that focuses on the development of leaders. \n\nThis activity can be undertaken at different levels. It can be in the form of training, seminars, institutes, or of more comprehensive frameworks that lead to the awarding of a certificate, degree, or diploma.\n\n"}
{"id": "32232362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232362", "title": "List of attacks related to post-secondary schools", "text": "List of attacks related to post-secondary schools\n\nThis is a list of attacks related to postsecondary schools, such as universities or colleges. These are attacks that occurred on school property or related primarily to school issues or events. A narrow definition of the word attacks is used for this list, excluding warfare, robberies, gang violence, political or police attacks (as related to protests), accidents, single suicides, and murder-suicides resulting from rejected suitors/spouses. Incidents that involved only staff who work at the school have been classified as belonging at List of workplace killings. It also excludes events where no injuries take place, if an attack is foiled. Each account needs a valid reliable source or it may be deleted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39208019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39208019", "title": "Margaret Craske", "text": "Margaret Craske\n\nMargaret Craske (26 November 1892 – 18 February 1990) was a British ballet dancer, choreographer and teacher of ballet.\n\nMargaret Craske was born on 26 November 1892 in Norfolk, England, daughter of Edmund and Hannah Craske.\n\nShe was a pupil and disciple of Enrico Cecchetti. When Cecchetti retired to Italy in 1923 she took over teaching at his studio in West Street, London. She taught and developed the Cecchetti method in England and later in the United States. From 1931 until her death she was a follower of Meher Baba.\n\nShe lived in India from 1939 until 1946, when she moved to the United States and resumed teaching, first at the American Ballet Theatre. From 1950 she taught at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School, and from 1968 until 1983 at the Manhattan School of Dance.\n\nHer pupils include many of the most important names in ballet in the English-speaking world, among them Frederick Ashton, Margot Fonteyn, Cyril Beaumont, Robert Helpmann and Antony Tudor.\n\nThe published works of Margaret Craske include:\n"}
{"id": "49248928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49248928", "title": "Marion Osgood", "text": "Marion Osgood\n\nMarion G. Osgood (ca. 1865–after 1924) was an American violinist, composer, and orchestra conductor. Her company, the Marion Osgood's Ladies Orchestra, was the first ladies' orchestra organized for professional work in the United States, and she was one of the leading solo violinists in the country.\n\nMarion G. Osgood was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts. Her father was associated as a teacher with Lowell Mason, and her mother, Mary A. Osgood, was an author and music composer. George L. Osgood, a Boston musician, was her cousin, and her brother was Professor Fletcher Osgood, elocutionist. She began her musical life as a child, coming from a musical and scholarly family. \n\nOsgood worked as a violin teacher in Boston and was one of the leading solo violinists in the US. She composed and published a number of vocal and instrumental pieces, was a scholarly writer regarding art, and met with local success as a writer of short stories in romantic fiction. Osgood organized and conducted the ladies' orchestra which bore her name. This company was established by her in 1884, was composed wholly of women artists, numbered 30 pieces, and was thoroughly organized with brass and wood winds, strings, and tympana. This company was the first ladies' orchestra for professional work in the US; it existed for about ten years. Among her many published works are a \"Fantaisie Caprice\", an album of descriptive pieces for violin and piano, and the song \"Loving and Loved\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25830095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25830095", "title": "Mikhail Katz", "text": "Mikhail Katz\n\nMikhail \"Mischa\" Katz (born 1958, in Chișinău) is an Israeli mathematician, a professor of mathematics at Bar-Ilan University. His main interests are differential geometry, geometric topology and mathematics education; he is the author of the book \"Systolic Geometry and Topology\", which is mainly about systolic geometry. The Katz–Sabourau inequality is named after him and Stéphane Sabourau.\n\nMikhail Katz was born in Chișinău in 1958. His mother was Clara Katz (née Landman). In 1976, he moved with his mother to the United States.\n\nKatz earned a bachelor's degree in 1980 from Harvard University. He did his graduate studies at Columbia University, receiving his Ph.D. in 1984 under the joint supervision of Troels Jørgensen and Mikhael Gromov.\n\nHe moved to Bar-Ilan University in 1999, after previously holding positions at the University of Maryland, College Park, Stony Brook University, Indiana University Bloomington, the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques, the University of Rennes 1, Henri Poincaré University, and Tel Aviv University.\n\nKatz has performed research in systolic geometry in collaboration with Luigi Ambrosio, Victor Bangert, Mikhail Gromov, Steve Shnider, Shmuel Weinberger, and others. He has authored research publications appearing in journals including \"Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics, Duke Mathematical Journal, Geometric and Functional Analysis\", and \"Journal of Differential Geometry\". Along with these papers, Katz was a contributor to the book \"Metric Structures for Riemannian and Non-Riemannian Spaces\". Marcel Berger in his article \"What is... a Systole?\" lists the book (Katz, 2007) as one of two books he cites in systolic geometry.\n\nMore recently Katz also contributed to the study of mathematics education including work that provides an alternative interpretation of the number 0.999...\n\n"}
{"id": "28858905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28858905", "title": "Milk and Bookies", "text": "Milk and Bookies\n\nMilk + Bookies is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in the United States. The organization's stated mission is two-fold: 1) providing opportunities for children to experience giving back to their community and 2) literacy promotion in underserved areas of the population. While book donations are an integral element of the Milk + Bookies' mission, another cornerstone of their program is Service Learning: instilling the seed of giving into each child participant, sparking feelings of importance, self-confidence and the desire to give and give again.\n\nMilk + Bookies was founded in 2004 by Meredith Alexander, a Los Angeles-based mother of two. In 2009, Heidi Lindelof and Laura Zimmerman, also Los Angeles-based moms, joined Meredith on the Milk + Bookies Board of Directors. That same year, Milk + Bookies was designated a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.\n\nMilk + Bookies' programs include:\n\nThrough Milk + Bookies, kids of all ages host events in their local school or hometown bookstore and are eligible to earn community service hours. The M+B Class Project requires the hosts to invite families with young children to spend the day celebrating books and experience giving. Children ages 3 and up are asked to choose, purchase and inscribe a book to be donated to a local child of a similar age who has little or no access to books. The events often include music, story-inspired arts & crafts and milk & cookies. Milk + Bookies provides students with a checklist on the necessary steps for hosting a Milk + Bookies Class Project event. The student hosts are then charged with finding a recipient group for delivery of the book donations. In the past, Milk + Bookies has recommended the following organizations as recipients of donations: Operation School Bell , Head Start or Boys and Girls Clubs of America .\n\nThe Milk + Bookies Birthday Party was conceived as a way to provide parents with an alternative for hosting a birthday party for their child, with the emphasis veering away from excessive gifts. Guests are asked to bring a new or gently used children's book in lieu of a gift for the birthday child. Milk + Bookies provides hosts with a \"Bookies Box\" which contains the necessary materials for hosting: bookplates, balloons, \"I Donated\" stickers, bookmarks and Milk + Bookies literature to facilitate parent discussions with young children regarding the importance of helping others. The guests are given the option of inscribing bookplates to adhere to their donation and subsequently receiving an \"I Donated\" sticker to wear. The birthday child and family choose a recipient group, then deliver the books to the recipients so that the birthday child can experience the joy of giving personally.\n\nLeaders+Readers is a special Milk+Bookies program designed to encourage student volunteers in the Los Angeles community, organizing book drives to benefit another Los Angeles based \"sister\" school. The goal of every Leaders+Readers Book Drive is to flood underserved Los Angeles schools with books to support learning and academic excellence AND allow students to gain experience with leadership and community service. \n\nOn April 19, 2015 Milk + Bookies hosted their 6th Annual Story Time Celebration at the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles . There was cookies, ice cream, fun games and crafts, and your favorite celebrities reading your favorite stories. Celebrity readers included J.J. Abrams, Tom Felton, Henry Winkler, Julie Bowen, Jaya Mays, and Dan Bucatinsky. Children were also able to donate over 3,000 books via Operation School Bell to kids who previously had never owned a storybook. .\n\nMilk + Bookies receives a great deal of assistance and involvement from celebrities as well as organizations and individuals based both locally in Los Angeles and nationwide.\n\n\n\nOfficial Website: http://www.milkandbookies.org\n\nAffiliated Blog: http://www.acmesharing.com/\n\n\"Social Media\"\n"}
{"id": "53861907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53861907", "title": "Millbrook Healthcare", "text": "Millbrook Healthcare\n\nMillbrook Healthcare is a provider of community equipment services, wheelchair services, and Technology Enabled Care services. It also runs a home improvement agency and was awarded the Foundations HIA Service of the Year Award 2017.\n\nThe firm is based in Southampton, where it was founded in 1946 as an upholstery business.\n\nIt operates a fleet of 400 vans from depots across southern England.\n\nIt has provided wheelchair services for Plymouth and South Hams since 2011. It took over the contract for wheelchair provision in Hampshire in 2014. At that time there was a waiting list of around 18 months. It took over the service in Kent in April 2017.\n\nIt took over the Care and Repair service from West Dorset District Council in 2015.\n\nIn August 2018 four disability groups in Kent wrote to the Clinical commissioning groups and MPs in the county to say that they “no longer had any confidence in Millbrook to provide the wheelchair service across Kent”, or in the ability of Thanet CCG to manage the contract, worth £5.1 million a year.\n"}
{"id": "37503460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37503460", "title": "Modernization plans of French universities", "text": "Modernization plans of French universities\n\nDuring the 1990s and the 2000s, the French governments have launched the modernization plans of French universities (in French, \"plans de modernisation des universités françaises\").\n\nInvestments of the state had been important, especially for the development of new academic centers before and after May 1968. However, these two modernization plans have been more publicized.\n\nThis plan was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 23 May 1990. With initial funding of 32 billion of French francs over five years (1991-1995), it would increase the number of premises, while the number of students was increasing. In 1994, operations were paid via the \"Contrat de projets État-région\" (Project contract state-region). The final funding was 40 billion francs (U2000 plan: 16.6; U2000 reported in CPER: 15.7, new operation in CPER: 8).\n\nThis scheme has helped to build 3.5 million square meters of new buildings for higher education and research, including:\n\n\nU3M plan, which combines state and local authorities, is a large-scale plan of the order of 50 billion of French francs. It is part of an overall approach, the schema utility of higher education and research. Like its predecessor, this plan has been largely funded through the CPER 2000-2006 (42 billion francs).\nIt was more than build new premises but to rehabilitate the existing. A special effort was made to student life, 25% of the funding went to libraries, restaurants and dormitories.\n\nThe Campus Plan (in French, \"Plan campus\"), differs from the other two by at least two points:\n\nOf the 35 billion euros of large loan, 22 are for higher education and research. In particular:\n\n"}
{"id": "16783065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16783065", "title": "Naale program", "text": "Naale program\n\nThe Naale program () is a program sponsored by the Israeli Ministry of Education and the Sochnut (Jewish Agency for Israel) which allows Jewish teenagers from the diaspora to study and earn a high school diploma in Israel.\n\nThis one of a kind program brings Jewish teenagers from around the world to study in some of the best Israeli high schools for three or four years.\n\nPotential candidates have to register, fill out an application, send in documents and undergo a few tests in order to be accepted to the program. Candidates are accepted based on how they did on the tests and interviews.\n\nEach student on the program gets a full scholarship funded by the Ministry of Education.\nThe scholarship includes a flight to Israel (from anywhere in the world), full tuition, books, notebooks and writing utensils, health insurance, full room and board, an allowance for traveling in Israel, pocket money, money for clothing, a phone card and more.\nGraduates of the program are eligible for an additional scholarship of two years of academic studies anywhere in Israel. \nDuring its existence, over 10,000 teenagers that came to Israel without their parents have graduated from Israeli high schools.\n\nThe students are considered foreign students and therefore are not required to change their citizenship or immigrate to Israel throughout the course of their studies. The decision to remain in Israel is theirs alone. If a student wishes to leave the program at any point he may do so.\n\nThe program was established in 1992. Since then, over 17,000 students have participated in the program with about 90% staying in Israel and 60% of the parents immigrating as well.\n\nAbout two thirds of the students are from Russia and Ukraine. About a third of the students are from the western world, especially from the United States (since 2002) and other countries around the world: Uruguay, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Britain, Germany, South Africa, the Netherlands, Hungary, Zimbabwe, Mexico, Paraguay Peru, Chile, France, Colombia and Romania.\n\nThe students and the parents choose which school to go to. The students that are accepted come to Israel in the beginning of the school year. The schools are located all over Israel and cater to many different communities. Generally students participating in the program will have a local host family. These relationships often last long after high school.\n\nBelow is the list of the Na'ale groups by year.\n\n"}
{"id": "25146405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25146405", "title": "National Institute of Public Administration (Malaysia)", "text": "National Institute of Public Administration (Malaysia)\n\nThe National Institute of Public Administration (Malay: \"Institut Tadbiran Awam Negara\") or popularly known as INTAN is a Malaysian government agency responsible for the training of civil servants in management and administration. \n\nINTAN was established in 1959 as the 'Training Centre for Civil Servants', which was situated in Port Dickson. The prime objective of the centre was to train civil servants with the necessary knowledge and expertise to face the development challenges of the nation, especially after Independence. In 1963, the Training Centre was relocated to Jalan Ilmu, Petaling Jaya, close to the University of Malaya.\n\nIn 1972, the training centre was officially upgraded to an Institute, and is officially known as Institut Tadbiran Awam Negara (INTAN). This change in status coincided with the centre's increasing role and responsibilities under the National Economic Policy (NEP 1971-1990), aimed at socioeconomic development and eradicating poverty in this fledgling nation.\n\nINTAN with the cooperation of the Public Services Department, have played pivotal roles in not only providing civil servants with the necessary facilities and training, but also scholarships, allowances, grants, and so on, for further education and career advancement (Jeong, 2007).\n\nINTAN is headed by a Director General, and assists by eight Deputy Directors. Each of the Deputy Director headed a Center. Essentially, there are eight (8) centers under INTAN:\n\n\nThese eight centers contributed positively to the relevancy of INTAN as a modern-day training center of the government, in providing the staff with the necessary knowledge, skills and expertise, in fulfilling their roles as practical public servants. \n\nFurthermore, courses in INTAN can comprise short-period courses, such as Computer Competency courses (MS Word, Excel, Excess, Basic Internet skills, and so on), to long-term courses, such as Diploma in Public Administration, Diploma in Strategic Studies, Diploma in Foreign Policy, and other short or long courses. Other courses and trainings are provided in areas such as (Jeong, 2007): \n\n\nSeminars, conferences, and workshops are also held from time to time, to update civil servants, which includes top civil officers, with the necessary knowledge, skills, and expertise, and also as a medium to exchange knowledge and expertise, to face the challenges and needs of modern public administration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5086323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5086323", "title": "Obstacle course", "text": "Obstacle course\n\nAn obstacle course is a series of challenging physical obstacles an individual or team must navigate usually while being timed. Obstacle courses can include running, climbing, jumping, crawling, swimming, and balancing elements with the aim of testing speed and endurance. Sometimes a course involves mental tests.\n\nThe military/Army obstacle course is used (mostly in recruit training) as a way to familiarize recruits with the kind of tactical movement they will use in combat, as well as for physical training, building teamwork, and evaluating problem solving skills. Typical courses involve obstacles the participants must climb over, crawl under, balance, hang, jump, etc. Puddles of muddy water, ropes/nets, and \"no touch\" restrictions are often used to make the course more difficult. Often, specialized courses are made to focus on specific needs, such as night movement, assault, and bayonet training. Military courses can also contain climbing walls and rappelling walls.\nAt the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario, officer cadets in first year participate in an obstacle course, which is designed by senior cadets. The obstacle course lasts a little over an hour and consists of thirteen obstacles built by each squadron located around the RMC grounds. Obstacles such as a wall and truck pulling are designed to test teamwork and physical fitness of First Years. The First Year flights are judged on the time it takes to complete each obstacle. The annual obstacle course race is memorialized by a sculpture by John Boxtel, \"To Overcome\", which was a gift of the class of 1991. Officer Cadets in third year take a physical education courses Obstacle Course and Water Borne Training. In the Obstacle course, cadets design obstacles with the available equipment and are evaluated on their leadership and innovation in the design of an obstacle course for their classmates. In the WB training, cadets learn about aquatic obstacle courses training and improve their basic swimming skills.\nAt the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY, Cadets must take and pass the Indoor Obstacle Course Test (IOCT). The test consists of 11 obstacles that must be navigated sequentially and is a vigorous test of total body fitness and high intensity cardio-vascular capacity. First year Cadets take the IOCT as part of mandatory gymnastics training, while Third Year Cadets must pass the IOCT as a stand-alone test of fitness.\n\nInflatable (air filled) obstacle courses can have participants go through a variety of areas like the Bish Bash, a tall loose structure to push or wade through, nets to crawl under, walls to climb over and holes to jump through. Some larger inflatables have even more areas.\n\nAn assault obstacle course can be done inside or outside. The outside course is usually messy and filled with mud and muddy water. An inside course is similar to an inflatable course, but it is used in physical education lessons or holiday camps, using gym equipment or whatever is at hand.\n\nSeveral indoor commercial indoor recreation and trampoline park companies have begun to include obstacle courses at their facilities, in many cases because of demand generated by television shows such as American Ninja Warrior, according to \"The Wall Street Journal.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57936473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57936473", "title": "Pasadena Waldorf School", "text": "Pasadena Waldorf School\n\nPasadena Waldorf School is a co-educational Waldorf school in Altadena established in 1979 and whose educational system is based on the methods of Rudolf Steiner.\n\nThe Pasadena Waldorf School was started as a K-8 school in 1979 and now offers grades till 12. \n\nThe campus lies on the Scripps Kellogg estate which is one of the remaining largest estates on “Millionaire’s Row” in Altadena.\n\nTheir religious affiliation is nonsectarian.\n\nThe school follows a tradition that pairs a first-grade student with an eighth-grade student who will participate together in the various school activities and events.\n\nThe student to teacher ratio is 9:1 (national average is 13:1) with 25% of faculty with advanced degrees.\n\nThey provide organizational support for high school students with IEP or 504 plan.\n\nThere are 340 students, and the average class size is 25.\n\nThey provide an average financial aid of $10000 and has 28% accepting the same.\n\nThey offer four sports (Basketball, Flag Football, Track and Field, Volleyball) and 16 extracurriculars. In 2017 they formed a shared high school athletics team with Judson International School with the approval of California Interscholastic Federation Southern Section (CIF).\n"}
{"id": "45560242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45560242", "title": "Peggy Deamer", "text": "Peggy Deamer\n\nPeggy Deamer is an architect, architectural educator, and currently Assistant Dean and Professor of Architecture at Yale University. Her research explores the nature of creative work, stretching from a psychoanalytic interpretation of art production and reception – initiated in the dissertation on Adrian Stokes, who was analyzed by Melanie Klein – to neo-Marxist examinations of creative labor.\n\nPeggy (ne: Margaret) Deamer (February 15, 1950 – present) is a principal in the firm of Deamer, Architects and formerly, Deamer + Phillips, Architects. She received a B.Arch. from Cooper Union and a Ph.D. from Princeton University. Her dissertation was on the British art critic, Adrian Stokes. She has taught at Princeton University, Barnard College, Columbia University, Ohio State University, University of Kentucky amongst others. In New Zealand, where she was the Head of the School of Architecture and Planning at the University of Auckland in 2007, she has also taught at Unitec and Victoria University. She has been a board member of Storefront for Art and Architecture and the Beverly Willis Architecture Foundation and is currently on the board of Perspecta: The Yale Journal of Architecture and a member of ArchiteXX. She is the founding member of the advocacy group, the Architecture Lobby.\n\nRecent articles include “Office Management,” in OfficeUS’s Agenda, “Work” in Perspecta 47, “The Changing Nature of Architectural Work,” in Design Practices Now Vol II, The Harvard Design Magazine no. 33; “Detail Deliberation,” in Building (in) the Future: Recasting Labor in Architecture; and “Practicing Practice,” in Perspecta 44. Her writing on architecture, design and psychoanalysis include “Adrian Stokes: Surface Suicide” in Architecture Post Mortem: The Diastolic Architecture of Decline, Dystopia, and Death (Ashgate, Donald Kunze, Editor), “Adrian Stokes: The Architecture of Phantasy and the Phantasy of Architecture, Architecture and Psychoanalysis: The Annuals of Psychoanalysis, and “Subject/Object/Text” in Drawing/Building/Text, (Princeton Architectural Press, Andrea Kahn, ed.) amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2168290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2168290", "title": "Peter McLaren", "text": "Peter McLaren\n\nPeter McLaren (born August 2, 1948) is Distinguished Professor in Critical Studies, College of Educational Studies, Chapman University, where he is Co-Director of the Paulo Freire Democratic Project and International Ambassador for Global Ethics and Social Justice. He is also Emeritus Professor of Urban Education, University of California, Los Angeles, and Emeritus Professor of Educational Leadership, Miami University of Ohio. He is also Honorary Director of Center for Critical Studies in Education in Northeast Normal University, Changchun, China.\n\nHe is the author and editor of over forty-five books and hundreds of scholarly articles and chapters. His writings have been translated into over 20 languages.\n\nMcLaren is married to Yan Wang from Northeast China. They currently live in Orange, California. He has a son and daughter from previous marriages.\n\nMcLaren is known as one of the leading architects of critical pedagogy and for his scholarly writings on critical literacy, the sociology of education, cultural studies, critical ethnography, and Marxist theory. Paulo Freire, a founding figure of critical pedagogy, stated: \"Peter McLaren is one among the many outstanding 'intellectual relatives' I 'discovered' and by whom I in turn was 'discovered.' I read Peter McLaren long before I ever came to know him personally (...) Once I finished reading the first texts by McLaren that were made available to me, I was almost certain that we belonged to an identical 'intellectual family.'\"\n\nDuring a keynote address at Chapman University on October 25, 2014, Dr. Nita Freire, eminent educational scholar and widow of Paulo Freire remarked: \"It is ... a huge thrill for me to see Peter McLaren and Donaldo Macedo, who ever since through discussions and dialogue became old friends of work and friendship, partners of ideological and theoretical ideas of Paulo. They along with Henry Giroux formulated the critical pedagogy as we know of today.\"\n\nHe has developed a reputation for his uncompromising political analysis influenced by a Marxist humanist philosophy and a unique literary style of expression. He has worked with Abahlali baseMjondolo, in South Africa; the landless workers’ movement, Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra – MST, in Brasil, the Zapatistas in Mexico, and members of the Bolivarian revolution in Venezuela.; and with the left education workers union in Turkey where in the midst of a demonstration he was teargassed and hurled to the ground by a police's riot shield.\n\nProfessor McLaren is a faculty member at the Institute of Critical Pedagogy at The Global Center for Advanced Studies and he lectures worldwide on the politics of education. In Finland he gave an Opening Lecture in Paulo Freire Center–Finland in November 20, 2007. La Escuela Normal Superior de Neiva in Colombia has named one of its buildings after Peter McLaren.\n\nPeter McLaren was born in Toronto, Ontario in 1948 and raised in Toronto and also, for a 4-year period, in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He is the only child of Frances Teresa Bernadette McLaren and Lawrence Omand McLaren, from Canada. McLaren's early family life was working-class until his father, a WWII war veteran with the Royal Canadian Engineers, returned from battle in Europe and began work as a television salesman, eventually rising to the rank of General Manager of Phillips Electronics, Eastern Canada. McLaren's mother was a homemaker before working as telephone operator.\n\nMcLaren used to read voraciously in literature, philosophy, poetry, social theory, and literary and art criticism, was making creative 35 mm. movies at 16, and dreamt of being an artist or film director. McLaren's father had one sister, Bonnie, who married Terry Goddard, a WWII Royal Airforce pilot who is credited with helping to sink the German battleship, Bismark. McLaren's mother had four sisters and two brothers. McLaren compensated for being an only child by spending time with his many cousins, and with engaging in creative writing. McLaren's first writing award was during middle school where he won top writing honors by producing a science fiction story.\n\nAt 19, McLaren hitchhiked throughout the US, met with Black Panthers in Oakland, lived in San Francisco and Los Angeles where he participated in anti-Vietnam war protests, met with Timothy Leary and Allen Ginsburg and began writing poetry and short stories. His first commercial publication was about his great Aunt, Irma Wright, who won the competition of the world's fastest typist in 1928. \n\nHe earned a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature at University of Waterloo in 1973 (specializing in Elizabethan drama), attended Toronto Teachers College and went on to earn a Bachelor of Education at the University of Toronto’s Faculty of Education, a Masters of Education at Brock University’s College of Education, and a Ph.D. at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, University of Toronto (where he worked with the late Richard Courtney, a leading international authority in children's drama).\n\nMcLaren taught elementary and middle school from 1974-1979. Most of that time was spent teaching in Canada's largest public housing complex located in Toronto's Jane-Finch Corridor. \"Cries from the Corridor\", McLaren's book about his teaching experiences, made the Canadian bestseller list and was one of top ten bestselling books in Canada in 1980 (\"Maclean's Magazine\", \"The Toronto Star\"), initiating a country-wide debate on inner-city schools. (Later McLaren would harshly criticize this book and go on to transform it into the highly acclaimed pedagogical text, \"Life in Schools\").\n\nAfter earning his doctorate in 1983, he served as Special Lecturer in Education at Brock University where, as a one-year sabbatical replacement, he specialized in inner city education and language arts. After the Dean did not follow through on his promised extension of McLaren's contract, McLaren decided to pursue an academic appointment in the United States. However, he remains on good terms with faculty at Brock University, with whom he remains in a relationship of solidarity and friendship.\n\nMcLaren left Canada in 1985 to teach at Miami University's School of Education and Allied Professions where he spent eight years working with colleague Henry Giroux during a time when the epistemology known as critical pedagogy was gaining traction in North American schools of education. McLaren also served as Director of the Center for Education and Cultural Studies, and held the title of Renowned Scholar-in-Residence at Miami University before being recruited by the Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California, Los Angeles, in 1993.\n\nIn 2013, McLaren was appointed Distinguished Fellow in Critical Studies at Chapman University Orange, California.\n\nFirst Phase, 1980-1993\n\nThe theoretical orientations of the first ten years of McLaren's research and writing can be traced to his early undergraduate work in Elizabethan drama, theater arts, and from there to his graduate studies in symbolic anthropology, critical ethnography and social semiotics. As a young man, McLaren had always admired the life and work of William Morris author, poet, artist and craftsman, printer and calligrapher, formidable socialist and activist, businessman and private individual. At the time that he enrolled in doctoral studies at the University of Toronto's Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (Institut d'Etudes Pedagogiques de L'Ontario), Victor Turner, the world-renowned symbolic anthropologist, was conducting path breaking transdisciplinary work at the University of Virginia, bringing dramaturgical theory and anthropology into close collaboration, particularly as this applied to the study of ritual. McLaren soon became a scholar of Turner's work. After auditing a course at the Toronto Semiotics Institute taught by philosopher Michel Foucault, and another by Umberto Eco, McLaren began to develop a transdisciplinary approach to the study of ritual. He found a rich transdisciplinary milieu in which to conduct his studies at Massey College, University of Toronto. Modeled after Balliol College, Oxford University, England, Massey College facilitates interdisciplinary collaboration among high achieving graduate students from various departments on campus. Looking back at his educational experiences at Massey, it is not surprising that the work of performance theorists, political economists, anthropologists, dramaturgical theorists, literary critics, and symbolic interactionists informed the theoretical basis of his first major scholarly publication, Schooling as a Ritual Performance Towards a Political Economy of Educational Symbols and Gestures (first edition, Routledge, 1986; revised editions, 1994, 1997) which was based on his Ph.D. dissertation.\n\nMcLaren's early work from 1984-1994 spanned diverse intellectual and empirical terrains. He remained steadfast in his interest in the contemporary themes of the Frankfurt School: social psychology in the context of a lack of revolutionary social protest in Europe and the United States; a critique of positivism and science; developing a critical theory of art and representation; an interrogation of the mass media and mass culture; investigating the production of desire and identity; and the globalization of capitalism and forms of integration in neoliberal societies. In other words, when viewed against the major themes of the Frankfurt School, there was a fundamental coherence to his work as a whole.\n\nFurther, each of McLaren's scholarly projects attempted to explore the construction of identity in school contexts within a neo-liberal society. This meant engaging in numerous critical projects: exploring the debilitating effects of logical positivism in the social sciences and the assault on critical theory and critical ethnography; exploring the increasing colonization of the lifeworld by the mass media and developing a critical pedagogy of media literacy and a political aesthetics of pedagogical experience; analyzing the decline of critical rationality in postmodern societies and the development of critical literacies; advancing in specific pedagogical terms the struggle to redefine the meaning of liberation and empowerment in an age of despair and cynicism; investigating the politics of post-liberal societies with specific reference to the practices of cultural racism and sexism, and developing an analysis of the production, distribution, consumption, and exchange of cultural objects in schools and larger social sites with an emphasis on the social construction of subjectivity.\n\nIn this early period, McLaren's research emphasized the development of a critical emancipatory consciousness, self-conscious reason, and the centrality of nonidentity thinking towards a non essentialist view of revolutionary consciousness grounded in a theory of intersubjective understanding through language. Practically, his work attempted to create an oppositional cultural politics that enabled teachers and students to analyze how the dominant and negotiated meanings that inform classroom texts were produced and to uncover the ideological and political meanings that circulated within them. McLaren attempted through critical reading strategies to illuminate the dominant pedagogical codes of teachers as well as the normative codes within classroom cultures of students. His purpose was to create alternative readings as well as new pedagogical practices. In this sense, critical pedagogy, as McLaren was formulating it, attempted to re engage a social world that operates under the assumption of its collective autonomy and so remains resistant to human intervention.\n\nIn his early work, McLaren engaged four main strands in educational theory and studies: critical ethnography, critical pedagogy, curriculum studies and critical multiculturalism.\n\nSecond Phase, 1994–present\n\nMcLaren work during the past several decades is not so much a break from his early work, as an extension of it. A discernible shift occurred in the sense that he now focuses more on a critique of political economy. But his early work also included a critique of capitalism, except during that time McLaren operated from primarilya Weberian understanding of class and was concerned at that time with the politics of consumption and lifestyle/identity. McLaren's new turn saw him focus on the social relations of production and its relation to the production of subjectivity and protagonist agency. Between 1994 up to the present, McLaren's work is less directed at the classroom per se, and more focused on issues such as a critique of political economy, cultural contact and racial identity, anti-racist/multicultural education, the politics of white supremacy, resistance and popular culture; the formation of subjectivity, the coloniality of power and decolonial education; revolutionary critical pedagogy informed by a Marxist humanist analysis and liberation theology.\n\nDuring this time McLaren began spending time in Latin America—working with Chavistas in Venezuela and with labor and union leaders in Mexico and Colombia and becoming more interested in Marxist critique of political economy. McLaren came to believe that postmodern theory could be quite a reactionary approach in so far as it failed to challenge with the verve and sustained effort that is demanded of the times the social relations of capitalist production and reproduction. While McLaren adopted the term, critical postmodernism, or resistance postmodernism, to describe his work up until the late 1990s, he recognized that he needed to engage the work of Marx and Marxist thinkers.\n\nThe more McLaren began engaging in the work of Marx, and meeting social activists driven by Marxist anti-imperialist projects throughout the Americas, he no longer believed that the work on ‘radical democracy’ convincingly demonstrated that it was superior to the Marxist problematic. It appeared to McLaren that, in the main, such work had despairingly capitulated to the inevitability of the rule of capital and the regime of the commodity. That work, along with much of the work in post-colonialist criticism, appeared to McLaren as too detached from historical specificities and basic determinations. McLaren believed that Marxist critique more adequately addressed the differentiated totalities of contemporary society and their historical imbrications in the world system of global capitalism. Rather than employ the term critical pedagogy, McLaren now uses the term that British educator Paula Allman has christened “revolutionary critical pedagogy.” McLaren describes his current work as Marxist humanist, a term developed by Raya Dunayevskaya, who once served as Trotsky's secretary in Mexico and who developed the tradition of Marxist humanism in the US. McLaren's work constitutes counterpoint to the way social justice is used in progressive education by inviting students to examine critically the epistemological and axiological dimensions of democracy in the light of a Marxist critique of political economy and the coloniality of power (a term developed by Anibal Quijano). McLaren's work today comprises poetry, reflections on his activist work in Venezuela, Mexico and other countries, contributions to critical theory and Marxist analysis as applied to current educational policy and reform initiatives.\n\nMcLaren's Critical Pedagogy\n\nMcLaren's work has broken new ground in education. He is considered one of the architects of critical pedagogy, having been influenced early in his career by Paulo Freire and Henry Giroux. He also has been credited with laying the groundwork for performance studies in education with the publication of his book, Schooling as a Ritual Performance. The Peter McLaren Upstander Lecture was recently announced as part of the Annual International Critical Research in Applied Theater Symposium, Auckland, New Zealand. The lecture is to be presented each year by a graduate student in education from the School of Critical Studies in Education at the University of Auckland. Currently McLaren is known as one of the leading exponents of revolutionary critical pedagogy, an approach to everyday life influenced by Marxist humanist philosophy, also known as a “philosophy of praxis.” McLaren's work is controversial for its uncompromising politics of class struggle. McLaren is also a gifted orator and social activist, and his academic writing has been both praised and criticized for its unique blend of poetry and literary tropes and cutting-edge theoretical analysis. At least one documentary is in the planning about McLaren's life.\n\nMcLaren approaches critical pedagogy as a praxiological effort to develop a politics of everyday life in a number of ways. First, it situates its critical analyses within the realms of popular culture. Secondly, it pays close theoretical attention to the ways in which everyday discourses and social practices both constitute and reinforce relations of power as well as serve as sites for struggle, resistance, and transformation. Thirdly, critical pedagogy as developed by McLaren attempts to seize opportunities to make links between new social movements and the networks of power associated with \"school life.\" It does this by attempting to link the micropolitical (everyday lives of teachers and students) with the macropolitical (larger economic, cultural, social, and institutional structures).\n\nCritical pedagogy, as McLaren develops it, seeks to analyze the possibilities for the resistance and transformation of social life, both individual and collective, personal and macropolitical. It engages in such an analysis by attempting to understand how wider relations of power are played out in the agential spaces of classroom and community life but also by attempting to investigate how wider structures of mediation at the level of the economy are able to \"take root\" in the everyday lives of students and teachers who operate at the level of common sense actions. This means constantly reflecting on the cultural construction of the identities of teachers, students, researchers and also connecting such critical reflection to a wider terrain of political action and class struggle. McLaren takes critical pedagogy beyond a discursive politics that sees politics as merely a text to be deconstructed and interpreted. Instead, McLaren approaches cultural politics as a terrain that operationalizes the textuality of political life by linking textuality to materiality. That is, McLaren seeks to make connections between the texts that we read (cultural artifacts) and those that read us (the realm of language and discursive structures in general) in light of current modes and social relations of production and the political consequences that these connections bring about in our pedagogies, curricula, and policies.\n\nBetween 1994–present, McLaren revised and extended some of his earlier insights in Schooling as a Ritual Performance, and Life in Schools, and other works, through an engagement with Marx and leading Marxist philosophers and theorists.\n\nWhile anti-capitalist struggle and Marxist analysis has an indistinct and relatively undigested place in the field of educational theory, there is some movement towards Marx in the social sciences here in North America. Marx is being revisited by social scientists of all disciplinary shapes and sizes – even, and perhaps most especially and urgently today, when capitalism is in a state of severe crisis. While hardly on their way to becoming entrenched and pervasive, Marx's ideas are taking their significance most strikingly from the particular and varied contexts in which his ideas are being engaged. Thank to McLaren's work, Marx's ideas are gaining traction in education.\n\nIn McLaren's post-1994 phase, Marxist theory has provided McLaren with an approach to praxis that is fundamentally necessary to better contextualize changes in the socio-political and economic sphere as it relates to education. Through McLaren's current reengagement with Marx, and the tradition of historical materialism, McLaren supports the work of colleagues whose work is paving the way for new generations of educationalists to encounter Marx. Marx is being reevaluated on numerous fronts today: sociology, political science, philosophy, economics, ethics, history, and the like.\n\nMcLaren is the author, co-author, editor, and co-editor of approximately forty books and monographs. Several hundred of his articles, chapters, interviews, reviews, commentaries, and columns have appeared in dozens of scholarly journals and professional magazines worldwide.\n\nHis most recent books include:\n\nHe is also author of \"Life in Schools: An Introduction to Critical Pedagogy in the Foundations of Education\" (Allyn & Bacon) which is in its fifth edition (2006). \"Life in Schools\" has been named one of the 12 most significant writings worldwide in the field of educational theory, policy and practice] by an international panel of experts assembled by the Moscow School of Social and Economic Sciences; other writers named by the panel include Paulo Freire, Ivan Illich, and Pierre Bourdieu. In 2011, Instituto Peter McLaren was established in Ensenada, Mexico.\n\nProfessor McLaren's work has been the subject of three recent books: \"Teaching Peter McLaren: Paths of Dissent\", edited by Marc Pruyn and Luis M. Huerta-Charles (Peter Lang, 2005) [translated into Spanish as \"De La Pedagogia Critica a la pedagogia de la Revolucion: Ensayos Para Comprender a Peter McLaren\", Mexico City, Siglo Veintiuno Editores], Peter McLaren, \"Education, and the Struggle for Liberation\", edited by Mustafa Eryaman (Hampton Press, 2008), and \"Crisis of Commonwealth: Marcuse, Marx, McLaren\", edited by Charles Reitz (Lexington Books, 2013).\n\nMcLaren has also recently debuted as a poet with his poem \"The Despoiling of the American Mind\" in \"MRZine\". His works have been praised, among others, by Slavoj Žižek and Paula Allman. Žižek comments McLaren's book \"Che Guevara, Paulo Freire and the Pedagogy of Revolution\" as follows: \"\"Che Guevara is usually perceived as a Romantic model whom we should admire, while pursuing our daily business as usual—the most perverse defense against what Che stood for. What McLaren's fascinating book demonstrates is that, on the contrary, Che is a model for our times, a figure we should imitate in our struggle against neoliberal global capitalism.\" Allman notes that the book is \"brilliant blend of passion, commitment, and critical analysis and insight. (...) It is also one of the most important books on critical education, and thus also education and social justice, to have been written in the twentieth century.\"\" \n\nPeter McLaren was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Lapland, Finland in 2004 and by Universidad del Salvador, Buenos Aires, Argentina in 2010 and by the Universidad Nacional de Chilecito in La Rioja, Argentina. He also received the Amigo Honorifica de la Comunidad Universitaria de esta Institucion by La Universidad Pedagogica Nacional, Unidad 141, Guadalajara, Mexico.\n\nIn 2005, a group of scholars and activists in Northern Mexico established La Fundacion McLaren de Pedagogía Critica to develop a knowledge of McLaren's work throughout Mexico and to promote projects in critical pedagogy and popular education. On September 15, 2006 the Catedra Peter McLaren was inaugurated at the Bolivarian University of Venezuela.\n\nPeter McLaren's webpages and CV\n\nPeter McLaren's text\n\nTexts on Peter McLaren\n\nInterviews\n"}
{"id": "48672817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48672817", "title": "Qalam institute of higher education", "text": "Qalam institute of higher education\n\nQalam Institute of Higher Education was founded by a team of technical and managerial professionals on 31 May 2015 also registered with the Ministry of Higher Education, Islamic republic of Afghanistan.\n\nQalam Institute of higher education contain two faculties (faculty of Administration and policy and faculty of Islamic Law). Faculty of Administration and policy is further divided into for department as below:\n\nDuring last entry test which was conducted on the campus of Institute, which is located in serah-e-khawaja Bughra khair khana district #15, the total of 83 students meet our requirement from 200 candidates of this faculty, these students are currently studying on the second semester, 40% of them are girls and 60% are boys.\nThe institute have the total of 25 lecturers (15 of them are Permanent and 10 of them are visiting) for dally scheduled classes of institute.\nThe campus of Qalam institute of Higher Education is currently operating in five storage building which have 19 class rooms all of them decorated with the up-to date classroom equipment for delivering lectures.\n\nThe advantage which is given by the institute to the students: the fully accessible library with about 1000 books and E-library online and offline on the campus. Computer lab of 20 PCs with access of internet for students in the form of hotspot. Conference room with facility of video conference to connect the students with other national and international reputed universities to acquire the educational and research base programs. tuck-shop to provide the notes, chapters and stationary for student. And canteen for refreshment of students.\n"}
{"id": "27586489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27586489", "title": "Remote Medical International", "text": "Remote Medical International\n\nRemote Medical International (RMI) operates worldwide providing medical support services for companies and individuals operating in remote environments. RMI offers five main medical support services known as Core 5: RMI Staffing, RMI Topside Assistance, RMI Equipment & Supply, RMI Training, and RMI Consulting. The company serves clients in the energy sector, government and industrial services, military and law enforcement, executive protection, non-government organizations, and global logistics providers.\n\nRemote Medical International is headquartered in Seattle, Washington, USA with employees based all over the globe. The company was founded by Andrew Cull, a remote area paramedic in 2003. Inc. Magazine has named RMI three times as one of the 500 fastest growing companies in the US. In 2011, Remote Medical International was listed in the \"Top Twenty Places to Work\" in Seattle. RMI has approximately 100 employees, most of which are medical professionals.\n\nIn 2013, Remote Medical International received an $8 million investment from \"Seattle-based Columbia Pacific Management, which already owns 23 hospitals in India, Malaysia, Vietnam and Indonesia through a related company, Columbia Asia.\" RMI partners with Columbia Asia and uses its hospital as a base of operations in Asia.\n\nRemote Medical International medical providers are available for onsite deployments operating in remote areas worldwide. Medical providers include experienced EMTs, paramedics, physician assistants, nurses, and doctors who respond to routine and emergent medical incidents. RMI medics are most commonly deployed on offshore seismic research vessels and land-based mineral exploration and production sites.\n\nIn 2013, Remote Medical International launched RMI Topside Assistance, a global telemedicine service that operates out of the company's Global Coordination Center in Seattle. The service offers access to medical advice and logistical support 24/7 year-round via phone, internet, and video calls. The Global Coordination Center is staffed by Medical Coordination Specialists who connect clients to physicians for emergency consultation and advice and coordinate medical evacuations when necessary.\n\nRemote Medical International is an authorized distributor of medical supplies and holds an export license for pharmaceuticals. RMI handles custom clearance of overseas narcotics including hazardous and cold-chain supply shipments worldwide. The company also operates an online store with remote medical equipment and healthcare supplies.\n\nRemote Medical International provides remote medicine training courses taught by professionally trained and clinically active practitioners. RMI has trained over 13,000 students through public and private training courses including Wilderness First Aid, Wilderness First Responder, Remote Emergency Medical Technician, Remote Medicine for the Advanced Provider, and multiple recertification courses. RMI students include: all branches of the US military, energy companies, US intelligence agencies, law enforcement, FBI, executive protection, border patrol, special operations, national research organizations, National Park and Forest Services, universities, science foundations, guiding services, and individual adventurers.\n\nRemote Medical International provides medical program consulting services as a solution for corporate medical needs and requirements. Examples include Medical Emergency Response Plans, Local Health Facilities Reviews, Health and Safety Audits, Onsite Health Promotion Programs and Substance Misuse Testing Services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58620873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58620873", "title": "Reuters - The World's Most Innovative Universities", "text": "Reuters - The World's Most Innovative Universities\n\nThe World's Most Innovative Universities by Reuters is an annual empirical ranking that identifies educational institutions doing the most to advance science, invent technologies and power new markets. \n\nEmpirical metrics focus on how often a university’s patent applications are granted, how many patents are filed with global patent offices and local authorities, and how often a university's patents were cited by others. \n\nUniversities are evaluated in terms of the percentage of articles that featured a co-author from industry. The process cross references 500 academic and government organizations with the greatest number of scholarly journal articles as indexed in the Web of Science database against the patents and patent equivalents each organization filed in the same period in the Derwent World Patents Index and the Derwent Innovations Index. \n\nThe ranking has a European edition featuring the top 100 institutions across that region, an Asia-Pacific edition featuring the top 75 institutions and an edition featuring the top 25 most innovative governmental institutions in the world.\n"}
{"id": "17768653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17768653", "title": "SIGACCESS", "text": "SIGACCESS\n\nACM SIGACCESS is the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Accessible computing, an interdisciplinary group of academic and industrial researchers, clinicians and rehabilitation personnel, policy makers, end users, and students to develop technologies for use by people with disabilities.\n\nIn 1964, the Association for Computing Machinery started a Committee on Professional Activities for the Blind, which published a newsletter for four years and organized a conference in 1969. The purpose of the committee was to promote and support blind people as capable programmers. The committee broadened its focus to include other people with disabilities and became the \"Special Interest Group on Computers and the Physically Handicapped\" (SIGCAPH) in 1971.\nIn 2003, the SIG was renamed to SIGACCESS.\n\nThe ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility (ASSETS) is the flagship annual conference. All conference contributions are peer-reviewed by an international program committee, and accepted papers, posters and demonstrations are archived in the ACM Digital Library. All authors of accepted papers will be invited to submit extended versions of their papers to a special issue of the \"ACM Transactions on Accessible Computing\" (\"TACCESS\").\n\nSIGACCESS also sponsors other ACM workshops and conferences on a rotating basis.\n\n\"Transactions on Accessible Computing\" is a quarterly ACM journal that publishes refereed articles about accessible computing. The journal places emphasis on contributions with experimental results, but also accepts papers with new theoretical insights or positions.\n\nSIGACCESS also publishes the \"Accessibility and Computing\" newsletter.\nThe ASSETS Paper Impact Award is given to authors whose papers have made a significant impact on the field. Papers must be at least ten years old to be considered.\n\nThe Outstanding Contribution award is given in even-numbered years and recipients give a keynote presentation at the following ASSETS conference.\n\nPrevious recipients:\n"}
{"id": "25041801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25041801", "title": "Student loans refinancing", "text": "Student loans refinancing\n\nStudent loan refinancing is an aid needed by students who have some problems paying their Student loan on time. A student may consider refinancing student loans when he/she cannot handles payments with multiple loans. Multiple loans can be described as multiple interest rates. By refinancing student loans, students may be able to consolidate their multiple loan payments into one low interest rate. Students may significantly lower their recurring premiums by refinancing their loans.\n\nStudent loan lenders will buy out your loan from your existing servicer, allowing you to have a new loan at a potentially lower interest rate. This process will also consolidate all of the loans you refinance into one convenient payment. Like any form of debt, your goal with a student loan should be to pay as low an interest rate as possible. Other than a mortgage, you will likely never have a debt as large as your student loan. If you are able to reduce the interest rate by refinancing, then you should consider the transaction.\n\nYou need to find a lender willing to refinance your student loans and borrowers generally want that offer to result in savings over their existing loans. Then, you submit your personal information to them (which often includes loan balance, income, credit score) to get a personalized refinancing offer. If you get an offer that you like, you then usually need to send them a few documents (e.g. a pay stub) to prove the information you provided is true and then sign on the new loan. There are existing loan comparison tools such as student-lending marketplaces to help borrowers get the transparency of rates they deserve.\n\nLoan approval rules vary by lender. However, all of the lenders will want:\n\nShow that you can afford your payments. For instance, proof of a job with an income that is sufficient to cover your student loan et al.\nShow that you are a responsible borrower, with a demonstrated record of on-time payments. For some lenders, that means that they use the traditional FICO, requiring a good score. For other lenders, they may just have some basic rules, like no missed payments, or a certain number of on-time payments required to prove that you are responsible.\n\n"}
{"id": "428973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428973", "title": "Sue Johanson", "text": "Sue Johanson\n\nSue Johanson, (born March 16, 1930) is a Canadian writer, public speaker, registered nurse, sex educator, and media personality.\n\nJohanson was born Susan Powell in Toronto, Ontario, to Wilfrid Powell, a decorated British war hero, and an affluent Ontario-born Irish Protestant mother, Ethel Bell. Her great-uncle was Lord Baden-Powell. Her mother died when Johanson was ten. Johanson attended nursing school in St. Boniface Hospital Winnipeg, graduating as a registered nurse. Soon after, she married a Swedish-Canadian electrician named Ejnor Johanson. They had three children: Carol, Eric and Jane. The family moved to North York, where Johanson kept house and raised her children.\n\nIn 1972, Johanson opened a birth control clinic in Don Mills CI high school, the first of its kind in Canada. She worked there as clinic coordinator until 1986. She continued her education at the Toronto Institute of Human Relations (a postgraduate course in counseling and communication), the University of Toronto (family planning), and the University of Michigan (human sexuality), graduating as a counselor and sex educator.\n\nJohanson's career rose rapidly since her first classroom teaching in the North York schools. Later some other districts of the country noticed her performances and began to invite her in schools and universities all over the country. Johanson's humour and frankness make her a popular speaker at Canadian universities. She frequently packs auditoriums to capacity, making even standing room hard to come by.\n\nJohanson achieved popularity as a sex educator and therapist on rock radio station Q107. Originally she had a one-hour phone-in radio show dedicated to advice on sex. Later, the show was increased to two hours. The show was called \"Sunday Night Sex Show\" and existed for nineteen years between 1984 and 2005. In 1985 this radio program was turned into a TV talk show with the same name on the community television, Rogers Cable. In 1996 it became a national show on the Women's Television Network (WTN) with a high rating.\n\nThe first seven seasons were delivered to American audiences by Oxygen Media in 2002. The recorded program was very popular, but American viewers missed the opportunity to call in and ask their own questions. The U.S. version of \"Sunday Night Sex Show\", called \"Talk Sex with Sue Johanson\", produced especially for American audiences, debuted in November 2002 on the Oxygen Media.\n\n\"Talk Sex with Sue Johanson\" was an educational talk show airing every Sunday night. The program was divided into a several segments all covering the following topics: sexual life, love and relationships. Call-in segment includes viewers' live calls with questions immediately being answered by Sue. The discussions included the most common worries about arousal or erection, pregnancy, contraception, infections, and diseases. Johanson easily covered such topics as BDSM, sex positions, sexuality trends, sex and age, and much more. The show also included a sex quiz, a sex poll where viewers could vote via the internet and see the results at the end of the episode, and included important sexual news and information before and after commercial breaks.\n\nThe \"Hot Stuff Bag\" segment of the show was dedicated to reviewing a new sex toy which has been tested out by one or more members of the crew. The toy is shown and its usage is explained, as well its pros and cons. It is then rated on a scale of 1–4.\n\nThe show also usually includes a book review.\nThe educational format of the show combined with Johanson's profound knowledge of the subject and healthy sense of humour made the program popular with all age groups. Approximately 4.2 million Americans watch the show every Sunday. The show appears in Israel, Brazil, and twenty European countries in five languages.\n\nJohanson made two cameo appearances in the teen drama \"Degrassi Junior High\" as \"Dr. Sally\", essentially a fictionalised version of herself. She reprised the role a decade later for two episodes of \"\".\n\nIt was announced on May 7, 2008, that Sunday night's episode on May 11, 2008, would be her last, opting to retire. Johanson ended the show very emotionally and was joined by her staff on stage as she said goodbye.\n\nJohanson is the author of three books: \"Talk Sex\" (), \"Sex Is Perfectly Natural but Not Naturally Perfect\" (), and \"Sex, Sex, and More Sex\" (). All of them cover the sex topics from different points and include the detailed answers of the most delicate questions asked commonly about sexual life, Johanson's advice and health information.\n\nJohanson is also the author of a weekly column published in the Health section of the \"Toronto Star\" newspaper.\n\nJohanson's work educating and informing the public about birth control and sexual health earned her Canada's fourth highest honor (after the Victoria Cross, Cross of Valour, and the Order of Merit), appointment to the Order of Canada in 2001, for lifetime achievement. In 2010, Johanson was presented the Bonham Centre Award from the Mark S. Bonham Centre for Sexual Diversity Studies for her contributions to the advancement and education of issues around sexual identification.\n\n"}
{"id": "5101167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5101167", "title": "Swarthmore Lecture", "text": "Swarthmore Lecture\n\nSwarthmore Lecture is one of a series of lectures, started in 1908, addressed to Britain Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers).\n\nThe preface to the very first lecture explains the purpose of the series.\n“This book is the first of a series of public addresses to be known as the Swarthmore Lectures. The Lectureship was established by the Woodbrooke Extension Committee, at a meeting held December 9th, 1907. The Minute of the Committee provides for “an annual lecture on some subject relating to the Message and Work of the Society of Friends.” The name “Swarthmore” was chosen in memory of the home of Margaret Fox, which was always open to the earnest seeker after Truth, and from which loving words of sympathy and substantial material help were sent to fellow-workers.\n\n“The Woodbrooke Extension Committee requested Rufus M. Jones, M.A., D.Litt., of Haverford College, Pennsylvania, to give the first lecture on the evening preceding the holding of the Friends’ Yearly Meeting of 1908. In accordance with this decision, the lecture was delivered in the Central Hall, Birmingham, on May 19th.\n\n“The Swarthmore Lectureship has been founded with a two-fold purpose: firstly, to interpret further to the members of the Society of Friends their Message and Mission; and secondly, to bring before the public the spirit, the aims and the fundamental principles of the Friends. This first lecture presents Quakerism as a religion of experience and first-hand reality—a dynamic, practical religion of life.”\nThe transcripts of the 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2011 lectures (not necessarily the text printed in the books listed below) are available as free downloads from the Woodbrooke Quaker Study Centre website. Reviews of some lectures are online on the Nayler blog.\n"}
{"id": "54385919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54385919", "title": "The Strike That Changed New York", "text": "The Strike That Changed New York\n\nThe Strike That Changed New York is a history book about the New York City teachers' strike of 1968 written by Jerald Podair and published by the Yale University Press in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "54534731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54534731", "title": "Tuteria", "text": "Tuteria\n\nTuteria is a Nigerian platform for offline and online tutoring, co-founded in 2015 by Godwin Benson and Abiola Oyeniyi, systems engineers.\n\nGoodwin Benson and Abiola Oyeniyi launched Tuteria -a tutoring platform- in June 9, 2015 after Godwin Benson left Deloitte. The platform is intended to link tutors with Nigerian learners. Benson was inspired by his own experience as a tutor to launch this project and Abiola Oyeniyi who is one of the top Python developers in Nigeria is the CTO of Tuteria and writes the code.\n\nThe selection of potential tutors is ensured by a verification process that includes an ID and qualifications check along with standard competency tests.\n\nIn April 2015, Tuteria’s developers were among the winners of the Microsoft Mobile devices and services “Passion to Empire” campaign. The start-up was able to raise N3.5million during this campaign.\n\nIn 2016, Tuteria won the Internet.org innovation challenge for education.\n\nIn May 23, 2017, Tuteria won Africa Prize for Engineering Innovation and received a US$32,000 prize by UK’s Royal Academy of Engineering.\n\nThe website caters for a wide range of learners and it has 450 approved subjects with 6 main fields: mathematics, science, business, music, languages and computer science.\n\nThe tutoring platform also accommodates for other handcrafts and skills like bead-making, dance and photography.\n\nTuteria received a $20 000 grant from Niara-Africa Inspire and Microsoft Lumia Nigeria.\n\nThe tutoring platform generates revenue from commissions on lessons booked via the website or the mobile application. Tuteria charges 15 to 30% for each paid lesson.\n\n"}
{"id": "12641695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12641695", "title": "Victoria College School", "text": "Victoria College School\n\nVictoria College School is a school in Amman, Jordan. It is from kindergarten through high school. The school has branches in Egypt and Saudi Arabia and other countries. \n\nOn the 25th of October 2018, 44 students and staff members had been swept away by floods in the Dead Sea region in Amman, Jordan, whilst on a field trip, which resulted in 18 deaths and 34 injuries in what has been called the Dead Sea disaster \n\nThere has been immense backlash aimed at the school following the accident; criticizing that the school allowed the field trip during unstable weather and the fact that the official documents stated that the destination for the field trip was not the Dead Sea but Al Azraq region. The documents also reveal that the approved number of students was 30, when in fact 37 students attended the trip. "}
{"id": "23167590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23167590", "title": "Wedad Lootah", "text": "Wedad Lootah\n\nWedad Nasser Lootah (, sometimes transliterated as Widad Naser Lutah, born in 1964) is an Emirati marriage counselor working for Dubai's main courthouse, and the author of the Arabic sex guide \"Top Secret: Sexual Guidance for Married Couples\", published in 2009. She caused a controversy in the Islamic world by discussing sensitive topics in her book, such as oral sex, the danger of anal sex, female orgasm, the necessity of sex education, and homosexuality in Islamic societies. Although Lootah's frankness earned praise from liberal Muslims, it also drew death threats from fundamentalists who consider the book blasphemorous and her \"an infidel, and a sinner\". However, Lootah claims that none of her advice in the book violates the teachings of the Qur'an and that the book was published after the Mufti of Dubai gave an approval, even though he warned her that \"Arab readers might not be ready for such a book\".\n\nLootah wrote in her book that many men have their first sexual experiences with other men in Saudi Arabia and other Muslim countries with strict gender segregation, which she claims negatively affects their sex life in marriage later. In her interview with \"The New York Times\", Lootah commented that \"many men who had anal sex with men before marriage want the same thing with their wives, because they don't know anything else. This is one reason we need sex education in our schools.\"\n\nLootah has been working as a marriage counselor at the Family Guidance section in the Dubai Courthouse since its opening in 2001, and remains the only female counselor there. Her \"Top Secret\" is the first sexual guidebook published in the United Arab Emirates.\n\n"}
{"id": "36809506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36809506", "title": "World Computer Exchange", "text": "World Computer Exchange\n\nWorld Computer Exchange (WCE) is a United States Canada based charity organization whose mission is \"to reduce the digital divide for youth in developing countries, to use our global network of partnerships to enhance communities in these countries, and to promote the reuse of electronic equipment and its ultimate disposal in an environmentally responsible manner.\" According to UNESCO, it is North America's largest non-profit supplier of tested used computers to schools and community organizations in developing countries.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1999 by Timothy Anderson.\n\nThe organization is a non-profit organization, and tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) in the US.\nWCE headquarters is in Hull, Massachusetts, and there are 15 chapters in the USA and five in Canada.\nIn 2015, WCE opened a chapter in Puerto Rico.\n\nBy November 2002, the organisation shipped 4,000 computers to 585 schools in many developing countries.\nBy October, 2011, along with partner organizations, WCE has shipped 30,000 computers, established 2,675 computer labs.\n\nWCE provides computers and technology, and the support to make them useful in the developing communities. WCE delivers educational content and curriculum on agriculture, health entrepreneurship, and even water and energy. The program also ensures that teachers will know how to use the technology and content by providing staff and teacher training, as well as ongoing tech team support.\n\nEach chapter of WCE collects donated computers, refurbishes and prepares the shipment for the projects. While preparing shipments, they also raise funds to ship the computers.\n\nVolunteers of WCE chapters inspect each computer, repair if necessary, install operating system as well as educational material to each computer.\n\nWCE calls recipients of its computers \"partners.\" The requests of computer donations originate from the partners. Once the refurbished computers and the funds to ship the computers are fulfilled, WCE initiates shipment. When possible, WCE coordinates the shipments of computers with other non-profit organizations, such as University of the People, Peace Corps, Computers4Africa.org, ADEA (Assoc. for the development of Education in Africa) and others.\n\nIn November 2015, WCE sent two 2 Spanish speakers to visit Honduras for 2 weeks in 2015 to pilot an employable tech skills training for youth under a WCE contract with World Vision.\n\nThe WCE Computers for Girls (C4G) initiative is field testing of eight tools to provide technological training and STEM education for interested teachers helping their girl students in four West African countries (Ghana, Liberia, Mali, and Zambia) and Pakistan.\n\nIn September 2016, World Computer Exchange-Puerto Rico and 4GCommunity.org, two not-for-profit corporations, have announced their alliance to improve public school and family access to technology where needed throughout Puerto Rico.\nTo install the computers at a partner site without access to experts otherwise, WCE recruits and supports volunteers from the USA under its \"eCorp\" initiative. To be eligible, volunteers must be 21 years of age, have necessary tech skills, and be prepared to self-fund their travel and accommodation expenses. 18 eCorps training teams have worked in Dominican Republic (2), Ethiopia, Georgia, Ghana (2), Honduras, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Tanzania (4), and Zimbabwe.\n\nThe eCorps \"Travelers\" program is geared towards those already planning to go to one of the countries in the WCE network, to provide tech support during their trip. 79 eCorps \"Travelers\" have visited the following 41 developing countries including: Armenia, Bolivia (2), Cambodia, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Dominican Republic (2), Ecuador, Ethiopia, Haiti, Honduras, India (2), Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya (2), Liberia, Malawi, Mexico (2), Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Palestine, Panama, Peru (2), Puerto Rico, Qatar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa (2), Swaziland, Tanzania (2), Togo, and Uganda. In FY'15, \"Travelers\" visited: Cambodia, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and South Africa.\n\nWCE uses Ubuntu operating system to prepare computers, citing the cost of license and less prone computer viruses while providing sufficient computing environment such as word processor and printer drivers.\nUnlike One Laptop per Child, the prepared computers do not contain specialized software. Each computer is loaded with educational materials which allows users to learn materials without internet connection.\n\n\n"}
