{"id": "3168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3168", "title": "Afrobeat", "text": "Afrobeat\n\nAfrobeat is a music genre which involves the combination of elements of West African musical styles such as fuji music and highlife with American funk and jazz influences, with a focus on chanted vocals, complex intersecting rhythms, and percussion.\n\nThe term was coined by Nigerian multi-instrumentalist and bandleader Fela Kuti, who is responsible for pioneering and popularizing the style both within and outside Nigeria. It was partially borne out of an attempt to distinguish Fela Kuti's music from the soul music of American artists such as James Brown.\n\nAfrobeat began in Ghana in the early 1920s. During that time, Ghanaian musicians incorporated foreign influences like the foxtrot and calypso with Ghanaian rhythms like osibisaba (Fante). Highlife was associated with the local African aristocracy during the colonial period and was played by numerous bands including the Jazz Kings, Cape Coast Sugar Babies, and Accra Orchestra along the county's coast. Nigeria later joined the Afrobeat wave in the late 60s led by Fela Kuti who experimented with different contemporary music of the time. Upon arriving in Nigeria, Kuti also changed the name of his group to Africa '70. The band maintained a five-year residency in the Afrika Shrine from 1970 to 1975 while afrobeat thrived among Nigerian youth.[4][5] The new sound hailed from a club that he established called the Afrika Shrine.\n\nAlthough the term Afrobeat was coined as early as 1968, after making a trip to the United States, Kuti wasn’t really making music in the category of Afrobeat. The name “Afrobeat” shows the significance of groove to the music, as opposed to Afrofunk.  \n\nIn 1969, Kuti and his band went on a trip to the U.S. and met Sandra Smith, a singer and former Black Panther. Sandra Smith (now known as Sandra Isadore) introduced Kuti to many writings of activist such as Martin Luther King Jr., Angela Davis, Jesse Jackson, and his biggest influence of all Malcolm X.\n\nBeing that Kuti was interested in African American politics, Smith would inform him on the current events. In return, Kuti would fill her in on African culture. Since Kuti stayed at Smith’s house and was spending so much time with her, he started to re-evaluate his music. That was when Fela Kuti noticed that he was not playing African music. From that day forward, Kuti changed his sound and the message behind his music.\n\nPrevalent in his and Lagbaja's music are native Nigerian harmonies and rhythms, taking different elements and combining, modernizing, and improvising upon them. Politics are essential to Afrobeat, since founder Kuti used social criticism to pave the way for social change. His message can be described as confrontational and controversial, which can be related to the political climate of most of the African countries in the 1970s, many of which were dealing with political injustice and military corruption while recovering from the transition from colonial governments to self-determination. As the genre spread throughout the African continent many bands took up the style. The recordings of these bands and their songs were rarely heard or exported outside the originating countries but many can now be found on compilation albums and CDs from specialist record shops.\n\nBig band (15 to 30 pieces: Fela-era afrobeat) and energetic performances\n\n\n\nFela Kuti included the traditional Gbedu drum in his ensemble, with a percussionist pounding out a thunderous rhythm from a drum lying on its side.\n\nMany jazz musicians have been attracted to Afrobeat. From Roy Ayers in the 1970s to Randy Weston in the 1990s, there have been collaborations that have resulted in albums such as \"Africa: Centre of the World\" by Roy Ayers, released on the Polydore label in 1981. In 1994 Branford Marsalis, the American jazz saxophonist, included samples of Fela's \"Beast of No Nation\" on his \"Buckshot LeFonque\" album. The new generation of DJs and musicians of the 2000s who have fallen in love with both Kuti's material and other rare releases have made compilations and remixes of these recordings, thus re-introducing the genre to new generations of listeners and fans of afropop and groove (see Afrobeats section below).\n\nAfrobeat has also profoundly influenced important contemporary producers and musicians like Brian Eno and David Byrne, who credit Fela Kuti as an essential influence. Both worked on Talking Heads' highly acclaimed 1980 album \"Remain In Light\", which brought polyrhythmic afrobeat influences to Western music.\n\nThe horn section of Antibalas have been guest musicians on TV On The Radio's highly acclaimed 2008 album \"Dear Science\", as well as on British band Foals' 2008 album, \"Antidotes\". Some Afrobeat influence can also be found in the music of Vampire Weekend and Paul Simon.\n\nIn 2009 the music label Knitting Factory Records (KFR) produced the Broadway Musical \"FELA!\" As said on the musical’s website, the story showcased Fela Kuti’s “courage and incredible musical mastery” along with the story of his life. The show had 11 Tony nominations, receiving three for Best Costumes, Best Sound and Best Choreography. \"FELA!\" Was on Broadway for fifteen months and was produced by notables such as Shawn “Jay-Z” Carter and Will & Jada Pinkett-Smith. Many celebrities were noted on attending the shows such as, Denzel Washington, Madonna, Sting, Spike Lee (who saw it eight times), Kofi Annan, and even Michelle Obama. Michelle Williams, former singer of girl group Destiny’s Child, was casted as the role of Sandra Isadore.\n\n\nFrom early in the 21st century, a new type of sound, originating in Nigeria, has become increasingly prominent in African popular music.This name echoes Afrobeat, the 1970s fusion of Jazz and traditional Nigerian and Ghanaian music which is an important influence, but Afrobeats is a largely different style. \n\n\"Afrobeats is not a style, per se, like Afrobeat. It simply means the new sound of Africa, which takes in diverse influences that take inspiration from its African roots and is combined with the sounds of Rap, Reggae/Dancehall, and even R&B. It’s an extremely eclectic combination that makes for quite the enjoyable sound.\"\n\nAfrobeats is most identifiable by its signature driving drum beat rhythms, whether electronic or instrumental. These beats harken to the stylings of a variety of traditional African drumbeats across West Africa as well as the precursory genre of Afrobeat. The beat in Afrobeats music is not just a base for the melody, but acts as a major character of the song, taking a lead role that is sometimes equal to are of greater importance than the lyrics and almost always more central than the other instrumentals. Another distinction within Afrobeats is the notably west African, specifically Nigerian or Ghanaian, accented English that is often blended with local slangs, pidgin English, as well as local Nigerian or Ghanaian languages depending on the backgrounds of the performers. \n\nDJs and producers like DJ Black, Elom Adablah, and C-Real (Cyril-Alex Gockel) for example, have been a crucial part in spreading the popularity of this form of music. Their artistic mixing of beats and sounds allow a younger audience to experience a sound that is somewhat familiar in its influences and yet uniquely African. Their mixing and promotion of popular hits on the continent is also a tried and true method for success. Often what the play in clubs, radio shows, podcasts, etc. are what become popularized both within Africa and abroad. \n\nSince 2012, Afrobeats have gained mainstream recognition outside of Africa, especially within the UK. UK hits have included \"Oliver Twist\" by D'banj a Nigerian which reached 9 on the UK Singles Chart in 2012, and \"Million Pound Girl (Badder Than Bad)\" by the Ghanaian British artist Fuse ODG, which reached 5 on the UK Singles Chart in 2014. Afrobeats nightclubs are now primary features of UK's nightlife with clubs opening in most major cities.\n\nOther mainstream popularity garnered by Afrobeat is shown in Canadian artist Drake's music. Drake's 2017 album \"More Life\" contains many Afrobeat and Dancehall influences.\n\nAfrobeats has captured the attention of many award shows as well. For example, the BET Awards usually highlights the musical genre of Afrobeats and/or other types of music by having the category “The Best International Act.” In the year 2018, the famous Nigerian afrobeats singer Davido won and when presented the award, the audience knew he was from Nigeria. When accepting his awards, Davido says, “My continent has been so blessed to influence other cultures. Let’s collaborate everybody.” In this statement, Davido tried to show the audience of American celebrities that African artists would love to collab and make their mark in America. In previous years other famous artists have won the category as well, such as the singer Wizkid (Nigeria) in 2017 and in 2016 the DJ Back Coffee (South Africa) won.\n\nAccording to David Drake, the eclectic genre \"reimagines diasporic influences and—more often than not—completely reinvents them.\" However, some caution against equating Afrobeats to contemporary pan-African music, in order to prevent the erasure of local musical contributions.\n\nAfrobeats is primarily produced between Lagos, Accra, and London. Paul Gilroy, of \"The Black Atlantic\", reflects on the changing London music scene as a result of shifting demographics:\"We are moving towards an African majority which is diverse both in its cultural habits and in its relationship to colonial and postcolonial governance, so the shift away from Caribbean dominance needs to be placed in that setting. Most of the grime folks are African kids, either the children of migrants or migrants themselves. It's not clear what Africa might mean to them\"Many first and second generation African immigrants follow - and produce - Afrobeats music. Fuse ODG, a UK artist of Ghanaian descent, coins #TINA or This is New Africa as a means to change perceptions of Africa:\"This movement will shed light on Africa in a positive way and focus on how we can improve Africa. It’s not about just plying your talents in the Western world; it’s about going back home and helping Africa.\"\n\nNotable musicians whose music have been classified as Afrobeats:\n\n\nA music festival that’s recognized worldwide is \"One Africa Music Fest\". The festival has four different locations: New York City, Houston, London, and Dubai. \"One Africa Music Fest\" showcases modern Afrobeat music and talent.\n\nAs stated on the official website, the main focus of the music festival is to help strengthen Africa’s position in the entertainment industry on a global level. The festival also wants to create awareness to display the positive side of Africa that people don’t usually know about. This Afrobeats music festival promotes collaboration between other artists, businesses and communities.\n\nAfro Beat Fest is an annual festival in Newark, New Jersey celebrating African culture including music, art, fashion, dance, crafts and cuisine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "861818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861818", "title": "Albert Cohen", "text": "Albert Cohen\n\nAlbert Cohen (August 16, 1895, Corfu, Greece – October 17, 1981, Geneva, Switzerland) was a Greek-born Romaniote Jewish Swiss novelist who wrote in French. He worked as a civil servant for various international organizations, such as the International Labour Organization. He became a Swiss citizen in 1919.\n\nAbraham Albert Cohen () was born in Corfu, Greece, in 1895, to Greek Jewish parents. Albert's parents, who owned a soap factory, moved to Marseille, France when he was a child. Albert Cohen discusses this period in his novel \"Le Livre de ma mère\" (The Book of my Mother). He studied at a private Catholic school. In 1904, he started high school at Lycée Thiers, where he met and started a lifelong friendship with Marcel Pagnol, and graduated in 1913.\n\nIn 1914, he left Marseille for Geneva, Switzerland, and enrolled in Law school. He graduated from Law School in 1917 and enrolled in Literature School in 1917, where he remained until 1919. In 1919, he became a Swiss citizen. That same year he married Elisabeth Brocher, who in 1921 gave birth to their daughter, Myriam. In 1924, his wife died of cancer. In 1925, Albert Cohen became director of \"Revue Juive\" (The Jewish Review), a periodical whose writers included Albert Einstein and Sigmund Freud. From 1926 to 1931, he served as a civil servant in Geneva. In 1933, he married his second wife, Marianne Goss.\n\nDuring the German occupation, in 1940, Cohen fled to Bordeaux, then to London. The Jewish Agency for Palestine then made him responsible for establishing contacts with exiled governments. On January 10, 1943, Cohen's mother died in Marseille. That same year, he met his future third wife, Bella Berkowich. In 1944, he became an attorney for the Intergovernmental Committee for Refugees. In 1947, Cohen returned to Geneva. In 1957, he turned down the post of Israeli Ambassador in order to pursue his literary career.\n\nHe is buried in the Jewish Cemetery of Veyrier, near Geneva.\n\nThrough four different books, Cohen's fiction can be considered as one long autobiographical fiction. It is the story of the radiant Solal - Cohen's double - the handsome and successful civil servant of the League of Nations whose charismatic identity is a constant struggle between his Jewish roots and his social status.\n\nHis masterpiece, \"Belle du Seigneur\", originally included the novel that was later published as \"Les Valeureux\". \"Belle du Seigneur\" is called \"the book of love\", and tells Solal's passionate, cruel yet realistic love affair with \"Ariane Deume\" - a married non-Jewish woman. In 1968, the novel received the French Academy award. Since then, the novel has been one of the biggest sellers of the prestigious Gallimard White Collection.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2511603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511603", "title": "American-Born Confused Desi", "text": "American-Born Confused Desi\n\n\"American-Born Confused Desi\" (\"ABCD\") is a term used to refer to Indian Americans born or raised in the United States, in contrast to those who were born overseas and later settled in the USA.\n\n\"ABCD\" or \"American-Born Confused Desi\" has become a polarizing factor in the Indian and other South Asian diaspora in the US, with first-generation immigrant parents and young South Asians of second or later generations. Though the term was originally coined in reference to Indian-Americans, it has been adopted by the South Asian community at large. The term \"desi\" comes from the word \"des\" (homeland) in Hindi. The word has its origin in Sanskrit \"desh\". It's pronounced as \"desh\" in Bengali language (Bangla) too. \"Desi\" means \"of the homeland\" and denotes anything or anyone from South Asia. The term has been commonly known since at least the 1980s. The term \"confused\" is used to describe the psychological state of many second-generation South Asian Americans who struggle to balance values and traditions taught at home with attitudes and practices that are more conducive to the majority white culture.\n\nThe longer and lesser known form \"American Born Confused Desi, Emigrated From Gujarat, House In Jersey\" is also occasionally seen; playing on the alphabet theme, it has been expanded for K-Z variously as \"Kids Learning Medicine, Now Owning Property, Quite Reasonable Salary, Two Uncles Visiting, White Xenophobia, Yet Zestful\" or \"Keeping Lotsa Motels, Named Omkarnath Patel, Quickly Reaching Success Through Underhanded Vicious Ways, Xenophobic Yet Zestful\". The former version of the A—Z expansion was proposed by South Asian immigrants as a reaction to the latter version that derogated them.\n\n\"Confused Americanized Desi (CAD)\" is a related term, which refers to people of South Asian origin who are both born and living in the subcontinent but tend to follow western lifestyle and values.\nCoconuts is also a term used which basically refers to people who are \"white from the inside and brown from the outside\".\n\nAmong South Asian Americans, the term may be considered divisive, as first generation South Asian Americans use it to criticize the Americanization and lack of belonging to either Indian Asian or American culture they perceive in their second-generation peers or children. Writer Vijay Prashad describes the term as \"ponderous and overused\" and notes it as one of the mechanisms by which new immigrants attempt to make second-generation youth feel \"culturally inadequate and unfinished.\".\n\nThe term American-Born Confused Desi first appeared in the movie \"American Desi\" (2001).\"\" is a 2013 Malayalam language movie released in India.The film narrates the journey of two young American Malayalees to their motherland, Kerala, with the title based on the term \"American-Born Confused Desi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3248247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3248247", "title": "Ariadna Tyrkova-Williams", "text": "Ariadna Tyrkova-Williams\n\nAriadna Vladimirovna Tyrkova-Williams (; November 13, 1869, Saint Petersburg – January 12, 1962, Washington, DC; Ariadna Borman during the first marriage) was a liberal politician, journalist, writer and feminist in Russia during the revolutionary period until 1920. Afterwards, she lived as a writer in Britain (1920–1951) and the United States (1951–1962).\n\nAriadna Vladimirovna Tyrkova was born on 13 November 1869, the daughter of Vladimir Tyrkov, a landowner whose hereditary estate was Vergezhi in the Novgorod region. She studied in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThere she married A. N. Borman, an engineer, and with him had a son, Arcadiy (b. 1891). In the early 1900s, she became active among liberal opposition groups linked to Pyotr Struve's periodical, \"Osvobozhdenie\" ('Liberty'), and in 1904 was arrested while trying to smuggle 400 copies of \"Osvobozhdenie\" into Russia . Later the same year, she was arrested again, sentenced to 30 months in prison and fled to Stuttgart, where she met Williams; together they moved to Paris. At the end of the year Williams was sent to St Petersburg. His wife would follow. Returning to Russia under the general amnesty granted by the October Manifesto during the Russian Revolution of 1905, she helped found the Constitutional Democratic party (also known as the Kadet Party), and in 1906 became a member of its Central Committee.\n\nIn 1906, she married Harold Williams (1876–1928), a New Zealand-British Slavist who was working as a journalist in Saint Petersburg for the \"Morning Post\". The same year she joined the All-Russian Union for Women's Equality and, with Ekaterina Kuskova, became a leading campaigner for equal rights for women, prompting the Constitutional Democratic party to add women's suffrage to its platform .\n\nAfter the defeat of the revolution in late 1907, Tyrkova-Williams moved to the far Right of the Constitutional Democratic party, and advocated an alliance with the Progressive faction in the State Duma and the Left wing of the Octobrist party .\n\nIn 1911, the family was briefly embroiled in controversy, when Harold Williams was accused of espionage, supposedly as a result of Russian secret police machinations .\n\nDuring World War I, she worked in the All-Russian Union of Cities. She also spent a year in Turkey and wrote a book about her experiences there (\"Staraya Turtsia\", 1916) .\n\nOn March 17, 1917, immediately after the February Revolution, Tyrkova-Williams was elected a member of the Petrograd Committee of the Kadet party. She coordinated party publications in Petrograd, and in the summer of 1917 was elected to the Petrograd Duma, where she led the Constitutional Democratic faction. In August, she became a member of the Democratic Conference, and in September was elected to the Pre-Parliament. After the Bolshevik seizure of power during the October Revolution of 1917 she ran for the Constituent Assembly in November elections, and, with Alexander Izgoev, briefly edited the newspaper, \"Borba\", until it was shut down by the Bolshevik government.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly by the Bolsheviks, she helped organize anti-Bolshevik resistance in southern Russia. But in the spring of 1918, she emigrated to Britain, and in 1919 published an account of the first year of the Russian revolution, \"From Liberty to Brest-Litovsk\", before returning to Russia in the spring, when Harold Williams was sent to the areas controlled by Gen. Anton Denikin to report on the progress of the White Movement. By then, she had moved further to the Right, and wrote:\n\nWe must support the army first and place the democratic programs in the background. We must create a ruling class and not a dictatorship of the majority. The universal hegemony of Western democracy is a fraud, which politicians have foisted upon us. We must have the courage to look directly into the eye of the wild beast—which is called the people .\n\nIn late 1919, General Denikin was defeated, and Tyrkova-Williams returned to Britain in 1920.\n\nIn London, she became a founder of the Russian Liberation Committee, edited its publications, and raised money for Russian orphans . In November 1928, her husband died. Afterwards she wrote a biography of Alexander Pushkin (\"Zhizn' Pushkina\", 2 vols., 1928–1929) , and a book about her late husband (\"Cheerful Giver\", 1935).\n\nAfter the second World War, in March 1951, she migrated to the United States of America and later published three volumes of memoirs (1952, 1954, 1956) in Russian.\n\nAriadna Tyrkova-Williams died on 12 January 1962 in Washington DC and was buried there in Rock Creek Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4718487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718487", "title": "Armenian-Dutch", "text": "Armenian-Dutch\n\nArmenian-Dutch () are citizens of the Netherlands of Armenian ancestry. The number of Armenians in the country is unknown because the Dutch Immigration Office only offers data on country of origin. \n\nArmenian and Dutch interactions are believed to have started in the 13th and 14th centuries, when Dutch merchants arrived in Cilicia and Armenian trading houses opened in the Low Countries. Armenians brought into the Low Countries carpets, dyes, cotton, and spices from Armenia and from around the world.\n\nApart from the contemporary Armenian community spread out over the Netherlands, there had been an independent Armenian community concentrated in Amsterdam during the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nMany Armenian merchants in Amsterdam went to Southeast Asia in the 19th century to trade, and to set up factories and plantations, establishing a community of Armenians in Java.\n\nThe Napoleonic wars put an end to the Armenian life in the Netherlands. The city of Amsterdam was almost depopulated after its occupation by the French. In 1713 the city of Amsterdam permitted the Armenians to erect a church of their own. After serving its purpose for about a century and a half, this edifice was closed because of the dwindling of its congregation. In 1874, by order of the Catholicos of Echmiadzin, the building was sold for 10,000 florins, which was transmitted to him. It is probable that the Armenian community assimilated into the wider Dutch nation during the 19th century.\n\nArmenians arrived in the Netherlands from Indonesia (the former Dutch Indies in the 1950s), Turkey (1970s), Lebanon (1970s), Iran (1980s), Iraq (early 1990s), Russia and Armenia (1990s).\n\nThe largest group of Armenians arrived from Turkey (Diyarbakir and Şırnak) in the 1970s as guest workers in chain migration, finding employment in textile plants in Almelo and Hengelo. \n\nCurrently most Armenians live in the major urban centres in the western part of the Netherlands: Amsterdam, Dordrecht, The Hague, Leiden and Rotterdam. Armenian church services are held in Amsterdam, Maastricht and Almelo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19380708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19380708", "title": "Australians Missing in Action in the Vietnam War", "text": "Australians Missing in Action in the Vietnam War\n\nAt the end of the Vietnam War, six Australians were among the 2,338 people then listed as missing in action. Four Australian Army soldiers and two Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) were classified \"missing in action\" in four separate incidents with all six presumed to have been killed in action. Following the war, the remains of the servicemen were recovered and repatriated to Australia. As of 30 July 2009, no Australian servicemen remain missing in action from the Vietnam War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1912132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912132", "title": "Bari people", "text": "Bari people\n\nThe Bari people, also known as the Karo, are a Nilotic ethnic group mainly inhabiting South Sudan, as well as adjacent parts of northwestern Uganda. They are known as the Duor by other communities occupying the savanna lands of the White Nile. The Bari speak the Bari language as a mother tongue, which belongs to the Nilo-Saharan family.\n\nThe Bari of the Nile are sedentary agro-pastoralist. They exploit the savanna lands along the river Nile, and up to 40 miles east and west of the Nile. The Bari economy is based on subsistence mixed farming; their domestic livestock (small and large) are mainly raised for supplementing food, but mostly as a socio-economic and financial investment. Notably, livestock are exchanged as gifts in marriages, and other social functions or sacrificed in celebrations, and funerals; and whenever the need arises they are sold for cash.\n\nThe Bari are consistently under pressure: now from modern urbanization annexing their green lands and infusing different cultures into their lifestyles; and historically the Baris have been devastated by slave traders, and forced by Belgians (especially from the Lado Enclave) into labor camps and used as porters to carry ivory tusks to the Atlantic coast. The two Sudanese Civil Wars (1955–1973; 1983–2005) have also affected the Bari social, economic and financial dynamics.\n\nWar (intertribal or resisting foreigners) is not alien to Bari history. Generally, the Bari have co-existed well with the neighboring ethnic groups, but have had to pick up arms to defend their land against slave traders, and plundering warriors. There is documentation of Bari resistance against invasion by Dinka, Azande (Zande), and numerous encounters with Turkish slave traders.\n\nTraditionally the Baris believe in one almighty God and existence of powerful spirits (good and evil). Today the Bari's demography is made up of Christians (Catholics and Protestants), Muslims, and followers of traditional religions (not organized).\n\nIn the past it was a fashion among the Bari to undergo initiation ceremonies. Both boys and girls subjected themselves to removal of lower front teeth. The girls, in addition got tattoos: around the belly area, the flank, the back, and the face (on the temple) in the form of arrow shapes, or simple flowers.\n\nAlong the banks of the Nile, in the heart of the Bari land, lies the historical villages of Mongalla, Lado, Gondokoro (Kondokoro), and Rejaf (Rageef). The capital city of South Sudan, the town of Juba, is also in the Bari land, situated ten miles to the south of Gondokoro, and seven miles to the north of Rejaf.\n\nBased on Bari folklore, the Bari people settled in their current lands prior to the end of the grand trans-migration in Africa. By the time the Luo ethnic groups invaded and migrated through the Bari lands about 1650, the Bari were already sedentary agro-pastoralists, living, and trading peacefully with the neighboring ethnic groups.\n\nThe second Expedition to discover the source of the White Nile entered the Bari lands on 24 January 1841. Unfortunately with this progress in the quest for knowledge, came undesirable invaders in the form of European and Turkish traders looking for slaves and ivory. This was the first time Bari encountered Europeans travellers. The Bari were lucky in this encounter, as the Turkish army assigned to protect the Nile explorers behaved, unlike the brutality they unleashed on the ethnic groups (Mondari, Dinka, Shilluk) to the north of the Bari, Pojulu, Kakwa to the South and Kuku to the South-East. However, subsequent expeditions were different.\n\nThe third expedition (1841–42) to discover the source of the White Nile also discovered that Ivory was abundant in the Bari area. From thence onwards, the rush for ivory tusks in the White Nile valley escalated. Initially, both European and Arab traders began sponsoring trips to Gondokoro for ivory. And for a decade the Bari freely sold ivory tusks and other artefacts to the traders without intimidation, and no incidents of slavery was reported by that point in time.\n\nIn April 1854, the peaceful relationship between the traders/explorers and the Bari came to an end when a Turkish trader, without provocation, fired his guns into a crowd of Bari at Gondokoro. Accordingly, the Bari mounted a counterattack that was devastating to both sides. Subsequent to this the Bari became defensive and less friendly, and the traders (mostly Arabs, and Turks) resorted to violent means to procure ivory tusks, but also started taking people (young men and women) as slaves. Girls were raped, or taken as wives by force. Some of the merchants even built fortified depots near Gondokoro where people were kept awaiting shipment down the White Nile.\n\nDiaries of European missionaries in the region, indicate that in the market of Cairo (Egypt), the number of slaves to be sold to Europe from the White Nile area increased from 6,000 between 1858 and 1862, to approximately 12,000-15,000 per annum. These numbers reflected mostly, Bari, Dinka, and Mundari; but also included people of other ethnic groups neighboring the Bari, and beyond were hunting for elephant tusks was intense during that time. By 1863 when Sir Samuel White Baker arrived at Gondokoro, also on an expedition to discover the sources of the Nile, boats of buccaneers (even one flying an American flag) were anchoring at Gondokoro, with the sole purpose of picking up slaves to the new world. By 1865 about 3000 slaves at any one time could be found waiting at Gondokoro to be carried down the Nile.\n\nBaker returned in 1869 with the express purpose of stamping out the slave trade. By this time, the Bari people and land were already devastated. Bari folklore tells us of how long ago the land flanking the Nile was full of strings of villages spread out to the horizon, as far as the eye could see. Baker concurs, in his book \"Ismailia\" (1874), that this had been so when he first visited the area. However he describes how, by the time of his next expedition, the slave traders had reduced the Bari villages to a miserable few. Neither could he obtain co-operation from the Bari, who had been persuaded by Abou Saood, the chief slaver of Agad and Company, who had a government monopoly for trade and slaving, that it was in their best interests to help the slavers and hinder Baker.\n\nEver since then, recovery has been difficult, considering also the fact that the civil wars in 1955-1973; and 1983-2005 have further taken their toll on the Bari.\n\nIn the past, it was not uncommon for the Bari to use intermarriage to form bonds between two families. Although these arrangements were sometimes made when the children were very young, the bride price was not necessarily paid until the betrothed children reached marrying age. Today, marriage among the Bari more often involves a period of courtship followed by consent of the families involved.\n\nAfter a period of courtship, the male suitor usually declares his intent to marry (\"nyera\" in Bari) by presenting himself at the house of the girl's parents, accompanied by a few close relatives and friends. Before the wedding ceremony (\"budu\", typically several months later), the families meet in the bride's parents' house to negotiate the bride price that the bridegroom is obligated to offer; the parents of the bride and bridegroom are never directly involved in these negotiations, though they may be involved indirectly and behind the scenes. Because the Bari have long been agro-pastoralists, the bride price is traditionally paid in the form of live animals. A typical bride price might be composed of two dozen cattle and 40 head of sheep and goats. When the use of animals is too difficult, such as in the case of drought or natural disaster, bride prices in the form of cash may also be acceptable. Behaviors considered disrespectful may increase the bride price during negotiations (though it is also possible for civil courts to get involved); these can include premarital sex, eloping, and aggression towards in-laws. Once the negotiations are successful, both families bless the marriage and commence in a feast that involves drinking and dancing. After the feast, the bridegroom returns home alone, but after about two weeks, the bride arrives to take charge of her house.\n\nFor Bari who have converted to Christianity, an additional step occurs wherein the marriage also receives a church blessing. Ideally, this would occur before the husband and wife begin living together. However, because of the financial burden of having both a Bari traditional wedding feast \"and\" a Christian wedding ceremony, the trend has been to first have the traditional feast and then put off the Christian wedding for a year or longer while the couple saves up money for the occasion. This can be problematic when couples do not also wait to have children, which may be perceived as producing children out of wedlock. While the Second Vatican Council (1962–65) declaration opened the door for adaptation of some African traditional practices into the church, this has not yet led to the formation of a single wedding ceremony for Bari Christians.\n\nThe Bari people speak the Bari language as a mother tongue. It belongs to the Eastern Nilotic subdivision of the Nilo-Saharan family.\n\nBari is a tone language. It has vowel harmony, subject-verb-object word order, and agglutinative verbal morphology with some suppletion.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\", the Bari people inhabiting the Democratic Republic of the Congo now instead speak a dialect of another local Nilo-Saharan language, Logo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52498620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52498620", "title": "Belarusians in Latvia", "text": "Belarusians in Latvia\n\nBelarusians make up Latvia's third largest ethnic group after Latvians and Russians.\n\nAccording to 2017 statistics, 69.3 thousands of the inhabitants of Latvia identify themselves as ethnic Belarusians, which is slightly higher than according to the 2011 census (68 202) but still much lower than the numbers for 1989 and 2000.\n\nThe border regions of Latvia are predominantly inhabited by Belarusians, there is a Belarusian school in Riga and several Belarusian organizations.\n\nAccording to research by the early 20th century ethnographers Yefim Karsky and Mitrofan Dovnar-Zapol'skiy, the territory of modern Latvia is a home to an autochthonous Belarusian population in southern Latgalia. Daugavpils (, \"Dzvinsk\") and the territory of southern Latgalia were declared part of the Belarusian Democratic Republic in 1918 and the Soviet Socialist Republic of Belarus in 1919 but were then transferred by the bolsheviks to the independent Latvia.\n\nAfter Latvia gained independence, several organizations of the Belarusian minority were established in the country, as well as about 40 Belarusian schools, two Belarusian lyceums, two theatres (in Riga and Daugavpils), a newspaper and several magazines.\n\nAfter the 1934 Latvian coup d'état, the Belarusian education in Latvia began to feel pressure from the officials and was completely shut down by 1940 when the country was occupied by the USSR and later for a few years by Nazi Germany.\n\nDuring the Soviet occupation, Latvia saw an influx of migrants from Belarus.\n\nDuring the Perestroika, new organizations of the Belarusian minority have been established. After the country restored its independence, some ethnic Belarusians left for Belarus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "908620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908620", "title": "Birdsill Holly", "text": "Birdsill Holly\n\nBirdsill Holly Jr. (8 November 1820 – 27 April 1894) was a mechanical engineer and inventor of water hydraulics devices. He is noted for his inventions related to city water system equipment and apparatus for fire protection, like the fire hydrant.\n\nHolly was born 8 November 1820 in Auburn, New York. His father was Birdsill Holly, Sr. and his mother was Comfort Holly. When Holly was born his father moved the family to Auburn to become part of the crew constructing the new prison facility being built in the area. Eventually that work ended and then his father found a job at the Auburn Theological Seminary in construction. Eventually that work ended also. His father then tried farming, without very much success. Holly's father then moved the family to Seneca Falls, New York, where there was a water-powered industry with many jobs. Holly grew up in the Seneca Falls, New York, area since his father was able to find work as a millwright and general mechanic.\n\nHolly was forced then to drop out of school to help support the family at the age of 10 when his father died prematurely. Holly was only in the third grade. He was influenced by his father and took an interest in similar trade skills of mechanical engineering. Holly first became an apprentice in a cabinetry shop and then he apprenticed in a machine shop. In his late teens Holly became a superintendent in a machine shop and later an owner of a machine shop in Uniontown, Pennsylvania.\n\nHolly eventually moved back to Seneca Falls in his early twenties and became one of the partners of a new firm called Silsby, Race and Holly in 1845. The firm manufactured hydraulic machinery and steam-powered fire engines. Holly was the firm's visionary and contributed much to their success. There in 1849 he received his first patent, which was for a rotary water pump.\n\nHolly was a co-inventor of the Silsby steam fire engine in 1855, which was first produced in 1856. Ultimately over a thousand were made, becoming the most popular steam fire engine built in the United States. The unconventional rotary motion steam-cylinder engine and pump were Holly's invention (US39259A and US12350A). The first of these machines weighed up to 9,500 pounds, producing 60 pounds of steam pressure so it could throw four streams of water over 200 feet. If six fire hoses were used the streams of water were about 150 feet each. The nozzles to the fire hoses were just a little over one inch. The greatest distance recorded for a stream was 364 feet on 24 September 1881 in Reading, Pennsylvania.\n\nHolly left Seneca Falls in 1851 for Lockport, New York, where he established Holly Manufacturing Company in 1859 with the financial assistance of Washington Hunt and Thomas Flagler. The company produced sewing machines, cistern pumps, and rotary pumps. Holly built the Lockport Fire Protection and Water System in 1863, which used pumps powered by water-turbines and steam-engines to bring water to hydrants in the city. His system was adopted by Covington, Kentucky, in 1871. He patented a fire hydrant in 1869 used for fire protection.\n\nHolly's machinery inventions pumped water under pressure directly into city main water supply lines, since there were no water towers at the time for pressure from a local water supply reservoir for drinking water and fire protection. The pumps ran at various speeds according to usage. It was regulated by the pressure in the discharge main. Holly's company facilities doubled when he built a similar system for the city of Lockport water works department. He applied his water works system equipment in over two thousand cities in the United States and Canada.\n\nHolly's system of pumping water into Lockport's city mains was unique. It not only supplied drinking water for domestic service, but also furnished water under pressure for hydrants in a city fire protection service. His technology innovations provided the impetus for similar future city water works construction projects across the United States.\n\nHolly’s interests changed later from fire protection systems to the problem of heating buildings from a central point for better energy efficiency. He wondered if maybe there couldn't be a more efficient way of heating several nearby buildings than with individual small boilers in each building. He then set up an experimental steam heating system at his home in Lockport in 1876. Holly ran a short underground pipe line from his house to his barn in the back. Through this wooden pipe he ran steam and found that there was little heat loss. He next ran a longer 100 foot pipe to a neighbor's property for his steam experiment to transfer heat. The experiment worked successfully and he convinced others of the possibility of wide-scale central steam heating.\n\nHolly then formed a company from interested investors in his steam concept of a central point to make heat. He combined this company of investors with his Holly Manufacturing Company, coming up with Holly Steam Combination Company in 1877 for the commercial distribution of heat from a central station, developing district heating for towns and cities across the United States and Canada. Holly’s district heating system used a large boiler at a central plant factory location. This system furnished steam to a group of town buildings in a surrounding city district through a circuit of water pipes that supplied the steam vapors and returned the liquid water after being condensed. They were insulated to reduce loss of heat energy. The serviced buildings were metered and charged for the heat consumed from the steam supply. The metering was done by the water condensation of the steam they received. Holly with his companies designed and invented all the necessary control regulators and measuring devices to run a city district of buildings to heat.\n\nHolly patented 150 inventions in his lifetime. He was a friend of the renowned inventor Thomas Edison. Edison once asked Holly to become an assistant at his research laboratory in Menlo Park, but he refused wishing to concentrate on his own businesses instead.\n\nHolly had the dream of making a nineteen-story skyscraper building. He thought that someday Niagara Falls would become a tourist attraction, so proposed the idea of constructing a structure on Goat Island near the falls for viewing. This, however, did not transpire because of financing. He could not get enough investors for such an expensive, highly speculative, project. The concept of such heights for skyscraper buildings did transpire however in New York City shortly before his death in 1894, but were not of his architectural concepts.\n\nNearby there is a tourist viewing structure, that has a height measuring from the bottom of the falls.\n\nThe following are some of his 150 patents –\n\n\nBirdsill Holly died on April 27, 1894, at 7pm. He had suffered from a long illness and the cause of death was listed as heart failure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56053920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56053920", "title": "Bosniaks in Albania", "text": "Bosniaks in Albania\n\nBosniaks in Albania (, ) are an ethnic group living within the republic of Albania.\n\nThe Bosniak community of the Shijak area whose presence dates back to 1875 inhabits almost entirely the village of Borakaj and in the neighbouring village Koxhas they live alongside Albanians and form a minority. Bosniaks from these settlements have also settled in Durrës, Shijak and in 1924 some went and settled in the village of Libofshë where they have mostly become linguistically assimilated.\n\nWith the emergence of the Great Eastern Crisis, in particular the events of the Herzegovina Uprising in 1875 Bosniaks from the Herzegovina Mostar area migrated and resettled in Northern Albania in the Shijak area. On October 13, 2017, Albania passed a Law on National Minorities that recognised nine minorities, including the Bosniak one.\n\n"}
{"id": "58429332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58429332", "title": "Brittany Friedman", "text": "Brittany Friedman\n\nBrittany Michelle Friedman is an American sociologist focusing on criminology, racial inequality, and incarceration. She is currently Assistant Professor of Sociology and Faculty Affiliate in the Program in Criminal Justice at Rutgers University New-Brunswick. Her research intersects at the sociology of law, sociology of race, and criminal justice. Since 2014, Friedman is most known for her research on the Black Guerilla Family, solitary confinement, and the black power movement behind bars. She is an outspoken proponent of criminal justice reform and a frequent commentator on public media outlets. Her most notable project is a book manuscript tracing the relationship between the rise of the Black Guerilla Family in California, institutional logics, and racial oppression. Separate work includes a study of solitary confinement and racial inequality and an investigation with Mary Pattillo into how monetary sanctions in the criminal justice system disproportionately punish the poor. She has also written on colorism and gender discrimination in the Brazilian criminal justice system. Outside of the academy, she is a research fellow at Argonne National Laboratory.\n\nFriedman's research has been supported by the National Science Foundation and the American Society of Criminology.\n\nFriedman completed her bachelor of arts in History at Vanderbilt University, her master of arts in Latin American Studies at Columbia University, and her PhD in Sociology at Northwestern University under the direction of acclaimed sociologist John Hagan. \n\nFriedman attended Jefferson City High School in Jefferson City, Missouri and was born . Her maiden name is Jenkins.\n\n"}
{"id": "21807714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21807714", "title": "Building Bridges Coalition", "text": "Building Bridges Coalition\n\nThe Building Bridges Coalition (also referred to as the BBC) is a project of The Brookings Institution’s Initiative on International Volunteering and Service. It is a consortium of international volunteering organizations, universities and colleges, corporations, and government agencies working collaboratively to increase the number of volunteers from 50,000 to 100,000 by 2010. Sample members include Global Citizen Network, Partners of the Americas, Globe Aware, and Washington University.\n\nThe Coalition began in 2006 as one of three key components of the Brookings Institution’s Initiative on International Volunteering and Service. It currently comprises a coalition of more than 70 groups. These include corporations, non-governmental organizations, leading universities, and government agencies. All work in partnership to encourage more Americans to volunteer internationally.\n\nThe Brookings Initiative on International Volunteering and Service sought to explore ways in which the culture of volunteerism can help enhance global understanding and security. The resulting initiative has an ambitious goal—to double the number of Americans that volunteer overseas by 2010.\n\nThe initiative has two key areas in addition to the Building Bridges Coalition. The Public Policy Group, co-chaired by Senator Harris Wofford and John Bridgeland, focuses on policy development and education, and advances recommendations that include doubling the Peace Corps and creating a Global Fellowship to sponsor individual volunteers. The Research and Impacts Group, led by the Center for Social Development at Washington University in St. Louis and Brookings Fellow David Caprara, focuses on assessing the status and impacts of international volunteering and service and promoting effective practices.\n\nLed by David Caprara, Director and Nonresident Fellow at the Brookings Institution, the goal is to improve service quality, capacity, and positive impacts in communities throughout the world. These goals will be achieved through four distinct areas of operation and strategy:\n\nAssessment of international service\nPublic policy analysis and recommendations\nBuilding Bridges Coalition and public engagement\nCorporate sector engagement\n\nThe Building Bridges Coalition is one among a host of organizations conceived of as tools of American soft power around the world. To that end, the BBC has been represented at various conferences focused on the role of Citizen Diplomacy in international affairs. These include the 2007 Congressional Forum on Citizen Diplomacy in the 21st Century and the DRAFT National Summit on Citizen Diplomacy in 2008. The International Labor Organization has stated that a better understanding of the scope and contribution of volunteer work would improve policy-making and help raise living standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34426197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34426197", "title": "Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities", "text": "Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities\n\nThe House of Commons Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities (HUMA) is a standing committee of the House of Commons of Canada.\n\n\n\nStanding Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities (HUMA)\n"}
{"id": "22452234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22452234", "title": "Chinese people in Kazakhstan", "text": "Chinese people in Kazakhstan\n\nThe number of Chinese people in Kazakhstan is not very clear. There have been various migrations of ethnic minorities from China to Kazakhstan in the 19th and early 20th centuries, such as that of the Dungan people fleeing Qing Dynasty forces after a failed 1862–1877 rebellion in northwest China, or the Uyghur and Kazakh exodus from Xinjiang during the 1950s Great Leap Forward; however, their descendants do not consider themselves to be \"Chinese people\". The modern wave of migration from China only dates back to the early 1990s.\n\nDuring the Mongol Empire, Han Chinese were moved to Central Asian areas like Besh Baliq, Almaliq, and Samarqand by the Mongols where they worked as artisans and farmers. The Daoist Chinese master Qiu Chuji travelled through Kazakhstan to meet Genghis Khan in Afghanistan.\n\nChina and Kazakhstan agreed on visa-free travel in early 1992, which led to 150 to 200 Chinese citizens entering Kazakhstan each day and not returning to China. Most are believed to have simply used Kazakhstan as a transit point to Europe. Visa-free travel was terminated in 1993. The border between the two countries remained strictly controlled and highly militarised until the 1995 China–Kazakhstan Joint Declaration, following which People's Liberation Army units in the region were redeployed to the borders with Tajikistan and Afghanistan in southern Xinjiang. Starting from them, many Chinese traders began flowing into Kazakhstan. When the Kazakhstani government first opened a consulate in Ürümqi in 1997, it did not even issue visas to local people, but by 2004 it was possible for Chinese people to obtain business visas with an invitation from an organisation in Kazakhstan. Chinese citizens of Kazakh ethnicity do not require visas at all.\n\nSome Kazakhstan popular media reports claimed there were as many as 300,000 Chinese people in Kazakhstan by the year 2000. An article from China's official Xinhua News Agency repeated this same number in 2009. However, official entrance statistics showed only 28,000 in 2004, 34,000 in 2005, and 29,000 in 2006. Furthermore, surveys show that among migrants from China, non-Han ethnicities form the majority. 67% of Kazakhstanis expect that migration from China will increase in the future.\n\nEntry of migrant workers from China, largely entering the country as employees of Chinese companies, dates back to 1993, when 559 workers from China entered the country. This grew to 1,457 by 2004 and 5,008 by 2006. Initially, most were concentrated in Almaty, but more are spreading out to southern and western Kazakhstan as well. They are commonly employed in energy and construction companies. Some Chinese who have officially entered the country on short-term business visas for the purpose of trade are also in reality employed as labourers by Chinese companies.\n\nIn the 2000s, independent entrepreneurs running import-export businesses, as well as larger investors, began to become more active. Most of the products which Chinese traders sell are purchased in the special economic zones in the Xinjiang border regions. Over 4,000 Chinese firms or Kazakhstani firms with some Chinese investors are officially registered with the government; however, , only 213 were active.\n\nThere is a Chinese bazaar in Almaty, the Barakholka Bazaar, which in addition to selling general Chinese-made products such as electronics or foodstuffs to local people, also sells products aimed at Chinese people such as Chinese pop music or Chinese-language newspapers. These are not in evidence in other urban areas. It came to be dominated by Uyghur and Dungan traders in the 1990s; it is actually located near the site of a former Dungan \"kolkhoz\". The Dungan have often played an intermediary role in business ventures between migrants from China and local people.\n\nA Xinjiang-based free newspaper aimed at Chinese people in Kazakhstan, the \"Hāsàkèsītǎn Huáqiáo Bào\" (哈萨克斯坦华侨报, literally \"Kazakhstan Chinese Emigrant Newspaper\"), received permission from the Kazakhstan government in April 2009 to begin publication. The editors plan to publish it bilingually in both Russian and Chinese, with two issues of eight pages each per month. It is printed by the same department responsible for the \"Xinjiang Economic Daily\".\n\nThe Kazakh government has sought to promote permanent settlement of ethnic Kazakhs from abroad in Kazakhstan by providing them with financial assistance and land grants in border areas. However, this eventually requires them to give up their Chinese nationality and right of residence; according to Xinjiang media, many later come to regret this move. They experience difficulty in integration because they are more used to the Perso-Arabic orthography for the Kazakh language rather than the Cyrillic one used in Kazakhstan, and also only speak Russian as a second language, if at all. They tend to find jobs at Chinese companies or joint ventures.\n\n, \"oralman\" (the term for ethnic Kazakhs who settle in Kazakhstan under such government assistance) formed 1,109 out of 1,116 Chinese citizens with permanent official residency in Kazakhstan, and 3,907 out of 3,916 former Chinese citizens who acquired Kazakhstani nationality that year. Most are concentrated around Almaty and East Kazakhstan Province. They form the majority of teachers of the Chinese language at Kazakhstani universities.\n\nKazakhstanis generally express negative sentiments about the presence of the Chinese in their country. There is even some opposition to the presence or further migration of Uyghurs or Kazakhs from Xinjiang, because of the perception that their presence may draw more Chinese influence into the country as well. A 2009 proposal by the Chinese government to lease one million hectares of steppe for cultivation of soybeans sparked a series of protests in Almaty in December and January over the possibility that Chinese labourers would be brought to the country to work the land.\n\nAccording to a 2009 survey, national minorities, people between 18 and 29 years of age, and people in Almaty show the most tolerant attitudes towards Chinese. There is a popular perception that a large and rapidly growing number of Chinese people marry Kazakhstani citizens to obtain permanent residency in the country, but in fact, there were only 74 such marriages between 1991 and 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "51778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51778", "title": "Church of Satan", "text": "Church of Satan\n\nThe Church of Satan is a religious organization dedicated to Satanism as codified in \"The Satanic Bible\". The Church of Satan was established at the Black House in San Francisco, California, on Walpurgisnacht, April 30, 1966, by Anton Szandor LaVey, who was the Church's High Priest until his death in 1997. In 2001, Peter H. Gilmore was appointed to the position of High Priest, and the church's headquarters were moved to Hell's Kitchen, Manhattan, New York City.\n\nThe church does not believe in the Devil, nor a Christian or Islamic notion of Satan. Peter H. Gilmore describes its members as \"skeptical atheists\", embracing the Hebrew root of the word \"Satan\" as \"adversary\". The church views Satan as a positive archetype who represents pride, individualism, and enlightenment, and as a symbol of defiance against the Abrahamic faiths which LaVey criticized for what he saw as the suppression of humanity's natural instincts.\n\nThe Church of Satan describes its structural basis as a cabal that is \"an underground cell-system of individuals who share the basis of [our] philosophy\". Membership in the Church of Satan is available on two levels: registered membership and active membership. Registered members are those who choose to affiliate on a formal level by filing out the required information and sending a one time registration fee. Active membership is available for those who wish to take a more active role in the organization, and is subject to the completion of a more comprehensive application. The organization does not disclose official membership numbers. The church provides wedding, funeral, and baptismal services to members. Such ceremonies are performed by a member of the church's priesthood.\n\nThe Church maintains a purist approach to Satanism as expounded by LaVey, rejecting the legitimacy of any other organizations who claim to be Satanists. Scholars agree that there is no reliably documented case of Satanic continuity prior to the founding of the Church of Satan. It was the first organized church in modern times to be devoted to the figure of Satan, and according to Faxneld and Petersen, the Church represented \"the first public, highly visible, and long-lasting organization which propounded a coherent satanic discourse\".\n\nThe Church does not espouse a belief in Satan as an entity who literally exists, and LaVey did not encourage the worship of Satan as a deity. In an interview with David Shankbone, High Priest Peter H. Gilmore stated \"My real feeling is that anybody who believes in supernatural entities on some level is insane. Whether they believe in the Devil or God, they are abdicating reason\". Gilmore defines the word \"Satan\" as \"a model or a mode of behavior\", noting that in Hebrew the word means \"adversary\" or \"opposer\", which can be regarded as \"one who questions\". Gilmore describes Satanism as beginning with atheism, and taking the view that the universe is indifferent: \"There's no God, there's no Devil. No one cares!\" LaVey sought to cement his belief system within the secularist world-view that derived from natural science, thus providing him with an atheistic basis with which to criticize Christianity and other supernaturalist beliefs. He legitimized his religion by highlighting what he claimed was its rational nature, contrasting this with what he saw as the supernaturalist irrationality of established religions.\n\nChurch members may also participate in a system of magic which LaVey defined as greater and lesser magic. Greater magic is a form of ritual practice and is meant as psychodramatic catharsis to focus one's emotional energy for a specific purpose; lesser magic is the practice of manipulation by means of applied psychology and glamour (or \"wile and guile\") to bend an individual or situation to one's will. Although many of LaVey's ideas are shaped around a secular and scientific world-view, others express the belief that there are various magical forces in existence; rather than characterising these as supernatural, LaVey expressed the view that they were part of the natural world yet thus far undiscovered by science. He believed that the successful use of magic involved the magician manipulating these natural forces using the force of their own willpower, a trait of the religion that has been compared with Christian Science and Scientology. Outlined in \"The Satanic Bible\", LaVey defined magic as \"the change in situations or events in accordance with one's will, which would, using normally accepted methods, be unchangeable.\"\n\nThe term \"Theistic Satanism\" has been described as \"oxymoronic\" by the church and its High Priest. The Church of Satan rejects the legitimacy of any other organizations who claim to be Satanists, atheistic or otherwise, dubbing them reverse-Christians, pseudo-Satanists or Devil worshipers.\nProminent Church leader Blanche Barton described Satanism as \"an alignment, a lifestyle\". LaVey and the Church espoused the view that \"Satanists are born, not made\"; that they are outsiders by their nature, living as they see fit, who are self-realized in a religion which appeals to the would-be Satanist's nature, leading them to realize they are Satanists through finding a belief system that is in line with their own perspective and lifestyle. Adherents to the philosophy have described Satanism as a non-spiritual religion of the flesh, or \"...the world's first carnal religion\". The \"central convictions\" of the Church are formulated in the Nine Satanic Statements, Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth, Nine Satanic Sins, and Pentagonal Revisionism, which are regularly reproduced within the Church of Satan's written material.\n\nIn 1956, LaVey purchased a Victorian house in the Richmond District of San Francisco, which he painted black. During the late 1950s, LaVey hosted Friday night lectures on occult subjects at his house. The process of writing his lectures led him to distill his philosophy based on his earlier research into topics considered bizarre and arcane, and experiences as a psychic investigator and hypnotist, as well as work in the carnivals. He gradually gathered regular visitors who became known as the \"Magic Circle\". During this time, LaVey also held \"witches workshops\", classes to instruct women on the art of seduction and manipulation through glamour and feminine wiles. According to sociologist and early group affiliate, Randall Alfred, these \"workshops\" included \"various aspects of Satanism\" and were part of the Friday night lectures. Though actual numbers are unknown, it has been suggested that the group comprised around twenty people. Accounts suggest that the \"circle\" included authors, artists, doctors, policemen, and academics among other professions.\n\nIn the early 1960s Anton LaVey formed a group called the Order of the Trapezoid, which later became the governing body of the Church of Satan. The group included: \"The Baroness\" Carin de Plessen, Dr. Cecil Nixon, Kenneth Anger, City Assessor Russell Wolden, and Donald Werby. According to the Church of Satan historiography, other LaVey associates from this time include noted science fiction and horror writers Anthony Boucher, August Derleth, Robert Barbour Johnson, Reginald Bretnor, Emil Petaja, Stuart Palmer, Clark Ashton Smith, Forrest J. Ackerman, and Fritz Leiber Jr.\n\nIn the mid-60's, prior to the publishing of \"The Satanic Bible\", LaVey's writings were disseminated among his circle in the form of a series of papers known as the \"rainbow sheets\", an assortment of essays describing the philosophy, presented as \"an introduction to Satanism\". These essays were later featured in \"The Book of Lucifer\". In addition was a paper describing magic and containing instructions for the practice or ritual.\n\nLaVey founded the Church of Satan on Walpurgisnacht of 1966, which he proclaimed to be \"the Year One\", \"Anno Satanas\"—the first year of the \"Age of Satan\". LaVey began performing weekly Satanic rituals with followers at his house in San Francisco, which was known as \"the Black House\". In February 1967, LaVey and the Church performed a much publicized Satanic marriage of Judith Case and journalist John Raymond. The ceremony was attended by Joe Rosenthal. LaVey performed the first publicly recorded Satanic baptism in history for his youngest daughter Zeena, which garnered worldwide publicity and was originally recorded on \"The Satanic Mass\" LP.\n\nLaVey attracted a number of celebrities to join his Church, most notably Sammy Davis Junior and Jayne Mansfield. LaVey also established branches of the Church, known as \"grottos\", in various parts of the United States; these included the Babylon Grotto in Detroit, the Stygian Grotto in Dayton, and the Lilith Grotto in New York City. The Church of Satan was the subject of a number of books, magazine and newspaper articles during the 1960s and 1970s. It is also the subject of a documentary, \"Satanis\" (1970). LaVey appeared in Kenneth Anger's film \"Invocation of My Demon Brother\", acted as technical adviser on \"The Devil's Rain\", which starred Ernest Borgnine, William Shatner, and introduced John Travolta.\n\nLaVey ceased conducting group rituals and workshops in his home in 1972. In 1973, church leaders in Michigan, Ohio, and Florida split to form their own Church of Satanic Brotherhood, however this disbanded in 1974 when one of its founders publicly converted to Christianity. Subsequently, members of the Church of Satan based in Kentucky and Indiana left to found the Ordo Templi Satanis. In 1975, LaVey phased out the Church's \"Grotto\" system and eliminated people he thought were using the Church as a substitute for accomplishment in the outside world. Thereafter, conventional achievement in society would be the criterion for advancement within the Church of Satan.\n\nIn the 1980s the media reported concerns of criminal conspiracies within the Church of Satan. The FBI would later issue an official report refuting the criminal conspiracy theories of this time. This phenomenon became known as the \"Satanic Panic\". LaVey's daughter Zeena was the spokesperson and High Priestess in the Church of Satan during the 1980s. During this period, she appeared on television and radio broadcasts, in part to educate about the Church, and in part to debunk the mythology surrounding the Satanic Panic—a period of time in the same era in which Satanism was blamed for the actions of Satanic ritual abuse.\n\nFrom then until her renunciation of the Church of Satan in 1990, Zeena appeared in such nationally syndicated programs as \"The Phil Donahue Show\", \"Nightline with Ted Koppel\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"The Late Show\", \"Secrets & Mysteries\" and \"the Sally Jesse Raphael Show\". The appearances were made at the behest of the Church of Satan as its spokesperson. She did this on behalf of her father Anton LaVey, who was no longer interested in making media appearances, as she stated while being interviewed alongside her husband by televangelist Bob Larson.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s remaining members of the Church of Satan became active in media appearances to refute allegations of criminal activity. The Church of Satan and its members were very active in producing movies, music, films, and magazines devoted to Satanism. Most notably Adam Parfrey's Feral House publishing, the music of Boyd Rice, musician King Diamond, and the films of Nick Bougas (a.k.a. A. Wyatt Mann), including his documentary \"\". The Church of Satan and Anton LaVey were also the subject of numerous magazine and news articles during this time.\n\nAfter LaVey's death in 1997, leadership of the Church was turned over to his partner, Blanche Barton. On November 7, 1997 Karla LaVey made a press release about continuing the church with fellow high priestess Blanche Barton. Barton eventually received ownership of the organization, which she held for 4 years. Karla LaVey ultimately left the Church of Satan and founded First Satanic Church. That year, the Church established an official website. In 2001, Blanche ceded her position to longtime members Peter H. Gilmore and Peggy Nadramia, the current High Priest and High Priestess and publishers of \"The Black Flame\", the official magazine of The Church of Satan. The Central Office of the Church of Satan has also moved from San Francisco to New York City's Hell's Kitchen neighborhood.\n\nAfter LaVey's death, conflict over the nature of Satanism intensified within the Satanic community. The Church of Satan became increasingly doctrinally-rigid and focused on maintaining the purity of LaVeyan Satanism. The Church's increased emphasis on their role as the bearer of his legacy was partly a response to the growth in non-LaVeyan Satanists. Some Church members – including Gilmore – claimed that only they were the \"real\" Satanists and that those belonging to different Satanic traditions were \"pseudo\" Satanists. After examining many of these claims on the Church's website, Lewis concluded that it was \"\"obsessed\" with shoring up its own legitimacy by attacking the heretics, especially those who criticize LaVey\". Meanwhile, the Church experienced an exodus of its membership in the 2000s, with many of these individuals establishing new groups online.\n\nIn October 2004 the Royal Navy officially recognised its first registered Satanist, 24-year-old Chris Cranmer, as a technician on .\n\nOn June 6, 2006 the Church of Satan held the first public ritual Satanic Mass in 40 years at the Steve Allen Theater in the Center for Inquiry in Los Angeles to mark the Church's fortieth birthday. The ritual, based on the rites outlined in \"The Satanic Bible\" and \"The Satanic Rituals\", was conducted by Reverend Bryan Moore and Priestess Heather Saenz.\n\nIn December 2007 the Associated Press reported on a story concerning the Church of Satan, in which a teenager had sent an email to High Priest Gilmore stating he wanted to \"kill in the name of our unholy lord Satan\". Gilmore then reported the message to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, who informed local police, who arrested the teenager.\n\nMembership to the Church is gained by paying $225 and filling out a registration statement, and thus initiates are bestowed with lifetime memberships and not charged annual fees. The church emphasizes that one does not have to join the organization to consider oneself a Satanist, and that one only needs to recognize himself in The Satanic Bible and live according to the tenets outlined therein. The Church states they do not solicit memberships nor proselytize.\n\nAs the Church does not publicly release membership information, it is not publicly known how many members belong to the Church. The 1973 US Army Chaplain's Handbook written by Cecil D Lewis stated that once memberships reached ten thousand the figures were no longer made public. The 2000 edition of the Chaplain's handbook edited by J. Gordon Melton, removed this observation and simply stated the Church does not publish membership information. According to the Church of Satan web page, memberships are for a lifetime and membership has \"always grown as the years pass\". Despite no official published membership number, the issue of membership size continues to be debated. According to Maxwell Davies, estimates have placed membership from 300 to 20,000. Sociologist Massimo Introvigne placed membership at 1,000 in 1997, and in his 2016 book \"Satanism: A Social History\" stated that Church membership probably \"never exceeded one or two thousand\". In a 1988 TV appearance, then Church of Satan spokesperson Zeena LaVey answered Geraldo Rivera's question about membership numbers by stating \"hundreds of thousands? I can't say, thousands easily.\" According to scholar of religion and ordained minister in the United Methodist Church J. Gordon Melton, Church of Satan \"always counted its active membership in the hundreds\".\"Active membership\" is an application dependent subset of the total membership. According to an interview with the Church of Satan, \"interest in the Church of Satan and Satanism is growing all the time if our mailboxes, answering and fax machines, and e-mail is any indication.\" While not indicative of active membership, the organization's social media accounts have hundreds of thousands of followers.\n\nMemberships may be terminated on written request of the member, at the discretion of the ruling body of the Church of Satan consisting of the High Priest, the High Priestess, and the Council of Nine.\n\nChurch membership operates on a system of degrees, with \"active membership\" being the first degree. One must apply and be approved for an active membership, and this is subject to one's answers to a lengthy series of questions. Promotion to a higher degree is by invitation only, and the requirements for each degree are not open to the public. Members of the third through fifth degrees constitute the Priesthood. LaVey implemented a system of five initiatory levels that the Satanist could advance through by demonstrating knowledge of Satanic philosophy and personal accomplishments in life. These were known as Apprentice (Satanist I°), Brother/Sister of the Cauldron (Witch or Warlock II°), Priest/ Priestess of Mendes (Wizard or Enchantress III°), Magister Cavemi/Magister Templi/Magister Magnus (Magister IV°), and Magister Satanas (Magus V°).\n\n\nMembers of the Priesthood make up the Council of Nine, which is the ruling body of the Church of Satan, of which Magistra Templi Rex Blanche Barton is the chairmistress. Individuals who are part of the priesthood are those who act as spokespersons of the Church of Satan. The priesthood is exclusive to third, fourth, and fifth degree members. Members of the priesthood may be referred to as \"reverend\". The High Priest and Priestess act as administrative chiefs and primary public representatives; each position (High Priest and High Priestess) is held by a single individual at a time. The current High Priest is Peter H. Gilmore, the current High Priestess is Peggy Nadramia.\n\nWithin the Church, a \"Grotto\" (from Italian \"grotta\", a type of cave) is a clandestine association or gathering of Satanists within geographical proximity for means of social, ritual, and special interest activities. The Black House, the founding place and headquarters of the Church of Satan from 1966 to 1997, was effectively the first grotto, and was for a time referred to as the \"Central Grotto\". Grottos existed for a time in various parts of the United States; these included the Babylon Grotto in Detroit, the Stygian Grotto in Dayton, and the Lilith Grotto in New York. In 1975, LaVey disbanded all \"grottos\", then reinstated them in the 1980s. The Church of Satan no longer formally recognizes or charters grottos.\n\nOn June 6, 2006 the Church of Satan conducted a Satanic High Mass at the Center for Inquiry West's Steve Allen Theater in Los Angeles, California. The event was by invitation only, and over one hundred members of the Church of Satan from around the world filled the theatre to capacity. The event was documented, and many members of the Church of Satan were interviewed, by the BBC with permission. The main ritual, based on the rites outlined in \"The Satanic Bible\" and \"The Satanic Rituals\", was conducted by Reverend Bryan Moore and Priestess Heather Saenz. The music for the mass was created and performed by Lustmord and was subsequently released on his album \"Rising\".\n\nLaVey is thought to be directly responsible for the genesis of Satanism as a serious religious movement. Scholars agree that there is no reliably documented case of Satanic continuity prior to the founding of the Church of Satan. It was the first organized church in modern times to be devoted to the figure of Satan, and according to Faxneld and Petersen, the Church represented \"the first public, highly visible, and long-lasting organization which propounded a coherent satanic discourse\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18204479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18204479", "title": "Connected Urban Development", "text": "Connected Urban Development\n\nConnected Urban Development (CUD) is a private-public partnership, initiated in 2006 by Cisco in cooperation with the cities of Amsterdam, San Francisco, and Seoul, to work towards a further reduction of carbon emissions through improvements in the efficiency of the urban infrastructure. It follows on Cisco's commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative.\n\nThe CUD program initially involved three pilot cities: San Francisco, California; Amsterdam, The Netherlands; and Seoul, South Korea. These cities were selected because each had implemented or planned to implement a next-generation [broadband] (fiber and/or wireless) infrastructure. Other common factors are the significant traffic congestion issues each city faces and the fact that each is led by a visionary mayor already involved in green initiatives. In 2008 the three initial cities were joined by Lisbon, Hamburg, Madrid and Birmingham.\nLearnings from the CUD partnership should serve as blueprint of best practices and methodologies that other cities can use as a reference. All cities involved are strongly relying on the use of information and communication technologies to achieve their goals. \n\nCUD is an ongoing program, to deliver innovative, sustainable models for urban planning and economic development. The exchange of ideas is promoted through bi-annual conferences in which representatives of all participating cities meet, together with representatives of other interested cities. The first CUD Conference took place in February 2008 in San Francisco, the second is planned for Amsterdam in September 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "53785707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53785707", "title": "Corruption in Turkmenistan", "text": "Corruption in Turkmenistan\n\nCorruption in Turkmenistan is considered by many independent sources as a serious problem. The country is near the bottom of several annual indices that measure corruption, including \"The Wall Street Journal\"s Index of Economic Freedom. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 167th place out of 180 countries.\n\nAccording to an August 2015 statement by the U.S. Embassy in Turkmenistan, corruption is \"widespread in both public and private sectors\" in the country. \"There are no standards-setting consortia or organizations besides Turkmen State Standards and the licensing agency. There is no independent body for filing complaints. Financial disclosure requirements are neither transparent nor consistent with international norms. Government enterprises are not required to publicize financial statements, even to foreign partners. Financial audits are often conducted by local auditors, not internationally recognized firms.\"\n\nTurkmenistan's government, the U.S. Embassy states, \"strictly controls foreign exchange flows, and the conversion of excess amounts of the local currency, the manat, remains problematic. ... While Turkmenistan has undertaken some initiatives to improve Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection, including the creation of the State Agency for Intellectual Property and the signing of some WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization) conventions, it has not adopted comprehensive administrative and civil procedures to improve the enforcement of IPR.\" Moreover, \"the country's regulatory system is not implemented transparently, and the government has influence over courts’ decision-making processes.\" Owing to these and other problems, Turkmenistan has attracted little investment by American firms.\n\nAll of the countries that were once part of the USSR face special challenges when it comes to corruption. According to the American Security Project, corruption is the foremost factor inhibiting these nations from developing along \"liberal-democratic lines.\" Corruption prevents many citizens of these countries from pursuing any economic development and growth in their nations, all while inhibiting foreign investment.\n\nTurkmenistan is part of the Central Asian region, an area of former Soviet republics in which levels of corruption are unusually high even for post-Soviet states. According to the Regional Anti-Corruption Initiative, Turkmenistan \"lies in a virtual hotbed of corrupt states.\" Central Asia has the highest perceived corruption of any of the post-Soviet regions. From best to worst, those regions are: the Baltics, the Caucasus, Eastern Europe, Russia, and Central Asia. The level of perceived corruption seems to rise as one travels from West to East, \"with the major deviation being that the Caucasus are perceived as less corrupt than Eastern Europe.\"\n\nAccording to the Corruption Perceptions Index 2014, Estonia is viewed as the least corrupt post-Soviet state and Turkmenistan the most corrupt. Two Central Asian countries, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, were dubbed \"Worst of the Worst\" by Freedom House in 2015. Only seven other countries around the world fell into that category.\n\n\"Corruption in Post-Soviet Central Asia is something very familiar to people living in the region,\" states one source. \"Without bribing, one is destined to see their case be delayed for a long time, very often beyond time limits defined by laws.\" Another source affirm that in Central Asia, \"you can buy everything, not only standard products in plenty of recently opened supermarkets, but also unique civil documents, university diplomas, certifications, tanks, combat aircraft and other useful things.\" The source describes corruption as \"pervasive,\" stating that government employees \"are dependent on additional 'little money' because of their low monthly incomes,\" while \"university rectors oversee the sale of diplomas and entrance exams tests as it is the only source to finance school.\"\n\nAt the lower levels of Central Asian society, \"corruption is a way of life, and the higher up you go, the bigger the theft gets. It sadly appears that the corruption tries to monopolize the mechanism of market competition and the forms of it become more sophisticated...Half-baked, poorly designed, inadequately implemented market reforms boost corruption.\" One source sums the situation up as follows: \"Be it application for a new passport, or registration at a new place of living, or even finding a day care for your kid — bribing is the easiest way to get it all done faster and without a hassle\".\n\n\"The high level of corruption in Central Asian States,\" explains one source, \"can be attributed to the low wages of civil servants, the many opportunities for corruption during the last decade, historical roots and the lack of political will in implementing anticorruption measures.\" Two \"bright spots\" are that Central Asia's \"perceived corruption is decreasing over time and its levels of illicit financial flows (IFFs) have been fairly low.\" Yet as the region continues to experience economic growth, without standards of accountability, elites will have access to illicit enrichment from enlarging natural resource industries.\n\nAccording to a January 2014 report by the European Court of Auditors (ECA), \"local corruption and a lack of co-operation from governments\" are \"the main driving factors behind the EU's development aid failures in Central Asia.\" The court criticized the way in which \"the European Commission's External Action Service (EEAS) managed development assistance in Central Asian countries between 2007 and 2012.\" The ECA report stated that the EEAS \"provided assistance to a larger number of sectors than is consistent with best practice.\"\n\nIn a September 2015 article, Matthew Crosston suggested that corruption \"is arguably more important in regions of the world currently undergoing in one form or another democratic transition and entrance into the global market economy,\" such as the Caspian littoral nations.\n\nTurkmenistan has routinely had the worst corruption statistics in the region. The country is \"highly corrupt and vulnerable to tomfoolery...Misuse of the state’s revenues have driven many investors away and led to high levels of corruption.\" While the region \"averages only 13% in terms of controlling corruption governmentally,\" Turkmenistan's score is only 2%; while the region's average score for \"Rule of Law\" score is 25%, Turkmenistan scores only 4%; while the region scores a 13% average for \"Voice and Accountability,\" Turkmenistan scores what one website characterizes as a \"laughable\" 1%.\n\nOne source compares Turkmenistan to its neighbor Kazakhstan. Corruption is rampant in both countries, but while Kazakhstan has \"a free private sector and the emerging middle class which creates jobs,\" Turkmenistan has a stagnant economy in which the \"only tangible source of jobs is a gas agreement with China.\" Also, while the Kazakh and Uzbek media report on the corruption of those countries' rulers, in Turkmenistan the President’s family and their business activities, corrupt or otherwise, are kept \"out of the focus of public attention.\" Another source states that when it comes to corruption, \"both Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan are getting worse year after year.\"\n\nTurkmenistan was named by World Bank Vice President Johannes Linn in 2000 as \"the only former Soviet republic where loans have been halted because of corruption allegations.\" Five Western firms were \"banned from work on any World Bank projects\" in Turkmenistan owing to \"alleged fraud and corruption – including bribe payments to Turkmen authorities in an attempt to win contracts for Bank-funded projects.\"\n\nTurkmenistan is widely viewed as one of the most repressive regimes on earth. Both its first president, Saparmurat Niyazov, who died in 2006, and his successor, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow, have exercised absolute power. The parliament is a rubber stamp, the regime is packed with Berdimuhamedow relatives, most regime opponents are based abroad, and most of those who are not abroad are in prison. It is Berdimuhamedow himself who selects foreign companies for major contracts. \"Most of the foreign investment,\" said one source, \"is governed by project-specific presidential decrees, which can grant privileges not provided by legislation.\"\n\nBerdimuhamedow \"has unquestioned authority over all decisions, and thus has the ability to funnel out money to finance luxurious urban developments and grand personal lifestyles.\" Berdimuhamedow's nephews, notably his sister Anabat's son, are also reportedly major players in the business sector. Indeed, an October 2011 Reuters report, citing WikiLeaks, described Berdimuhamedow as \"a vain liar accused of corruption on a vast scale\" and as \"a control freak who personally signs off minutiae such as work rotas for leading doctors in the capital.\"\n\nBerdimuhamedow and his associates are believed to have diverted government funds into private bank accounts, and the late president Niyazov is thought to have done the same thing. Relatives of the president reportedly maintain prominent positions in key industries. It is said that the nation's elites have cultivated power from enacting a patronage system to ensure loyal persons rise up in the ranks. The entire economy is controlled by a \"limited number of patronage networks commanded by Berdimuhamedow,\" each with its own sphere of influence. This arrangement has spawned a \"culture of bribery, nepotism, and embezzlement,\" with bribe-taking \"particularly prevalent among customs, licensing, and social service agencies.\"\n\nAs of 2013, Tom Mayne of Global Witness believed that Turkmenistan, under Berdimuhamedow, was \"even more corrupt than under Niyazov's leadership.\" While Niyazov generally avoided regional nepotism and favoritism, Berdimuhamedow is said to frequently have done the opposite. The best ways for foreign firms to enter the Turkmen market, according to Freedom House, is to forge \"a personal relationship with the president or, alternatively, working through established foreign businessmen or high-ranking foreign officials.\" During Berdimuhamedow's first three years in power, \"the price of introductions to him\" rose \"by 10 to 15 percent, well above inflation rates.\"\n\nThe Turkmen system gives the President total control over the revenues from the sale of hydrocarbons, which is the nation's main income source. The government uses these funds \"to finance pervasive security services and vanity construction projects as well as to secure the support of patronage networks.\" Freedom House describes Berdimuhamedow as presiding over a system that allows him to legally appropriate oil profits and allocate them for personal use or physical assets for the state.\n\nA 2009 report quoted a US diplomat as stating that power energy companies are known to present \"small gifts\" to officials in order to arrange appointments with Berdimuhamedow and other top-level figures. The same diplomat maintained that Itera, a Russian gas holding company, gave the President a $60 million yacht named Galkenysh in order to \"speed up the conclusion\" of a contract involving gas works on the Caspian Sea. During Berdimuhamedow’s first three years in power, \"the price of introductions to him has risen by 10 to 15 percent, well above inflation rates.\"\n\nThe late president Saparmurad Niyazov \"reintroduced genealogical descent as a criterion for public sector employment,\" arguing that the country should look to \"the experience of our ancestors, who chose their leaders, military commanders, and judges from among the worthiest compatriots with high moral standards.\"\n\nElections are rigged. Although the December 2013 Parliamentary elections were said to be Turkmenistan’s first multiparty elections, they were \"fundamentally noncompetitive, as all candidates were progovernment and previously vetted by government leadership.\" In 2016, Berdimuhamedow was re-elected to his second term with 97% of the vote.\n\n\"To try and hide the corruption\" that is rampant in Turkmenistan, states one source, \"the state does not publish reports on economic figures or the national budget.\" Freedom House states that there is \"a notable lack of transparency\" in Turkmenistan \"with regard to economic figures, including government income, spending, and extra-budgetary accounts.\" The nation's budget \"is not published in full, and the figures that are made public are often incorrect, having been altered to give a false impression of economic growth.\" According to a report from the US Embassy, Turkmenistan has no mechanisms in place to enforce transparency or accountability among state-run enterprises.\n\nIn addition to corruption by high-level government officials who take massive bribes in exchange for awarding contracts to foreign firms, Turkmenistan is riddled with \"household corruption,\" meaning that everyday necessities, likes education and medicine, require bribes. Bribery is so commonplace that citizens are generally oblivious to its presence or significance. Bribery is so pervasive in Turkmenistan, according to a 2010 US diplomatic cable, that \"the public expects to pay bribes during almost any interaction with the government.\" The cable, published by Wikileaks, goes on to list the costs of a bribe for traffic offenses: running a red light, $50; drunk driving $150–220; speeding tickets are forgotten for as little as $5–30.\n\nTurkmen citizens have to pay bribes to get into hospitals, to get their children into \"more prestigious\" schools and universities, to record false lower sales prices when registering a purchase of property, to obtain licenses for businesses. \"Almost 70% of driving licenses were simply bought for the price of US$50–70.\" Business people say that \"their high costs are due to the payoffs they have to make to government officials for sanctions, bank loans, and permits.\" Also, \"the paternalistic role of government in organizing and subsidizing preferred industries leads to direct social benefit and creates avenues for rent seeking and bribe taking. Privileges are distributed in the form of special interest legislation, tariff protection, price supports. The resulting patronage allows the state to be captured by narrow, private interest group.\"\n\nUnder Berdimuhamedow, this kind of lower-level corruption is reportedly even more widespread than under Niyazov, because when Niyazov was in charge, according to Michael Laubsch of the Eurasian Transition Group, Soviet institutions remained in place, leaving little room for this kind of activity. However, with privatization, more opportunities arise for officials to take advantages.\n\nIn Turkmenistan, according to the US Embassy in the country, developing a rapport with the government is a must to do business. US firms identify prevalent corruption, most notably rent seeking as the greatest barrier to investment in Turkmenistan. Such corruption \"is most pervasive in the areas of government procurement, the awarding of licenses and customs.\" The Turkmen regime, states the U.S. Embassy, is highly selective when choosing investment partners, making it almost impossible to do business successfully without a connection in the government.\n\nTom Mayne of Global Witness warns that foreign companies which decide to do business in Turkmenistan should realize that they are \"doing business with an irrational government prone to mood swings\" and that when a contract is being finalized, the Turkmen government \"can urge them to work in cooperation with unknown, unreliable partners since it is beneficial for the authorities for some reason.\" Such foreign companies, moreover, will be compelled to engage in activities that violate \"US or UK legislation combating corruption.\"\n\nPrivatization in the country has been largely shrouded, with bidding processes for public contracts occurring often behind closed doors. In addition, it is said that to even gain access to the bidding process, one must first receive approval from a state agency. Another important factor is that all land in the country is under the government's ownership. No business, domestic or foreign, can receive long-term leases for non-agricultural use of land. The president maintains supreme power to grant licenses for non-agricultural purposes.\n\nAlthough the Turkmen government has sought \"to introduce an element of competition for state contracts by announcing international tenders for some projects,\" contracts are still often awarded on political, not economic, grounds, and the process \"is often badly managed and nontransparent.\" One U.S. firm \"was told that it had won a tender and began investing in the project’s design, only to be informed that the government was considering other options. The project ultimately was awarded by the government to a new company at twice the American company’s bid.\"\n\nA Law on Tenders that went into effect on July 1, 2015, \"seeks to develop competition among bidders, ensure transparency and effective implementation of tender procedures, and compliance with international standards,\" but it is so far unclear whether the law has resulted in greater honesty and transparency. Also, any contract with a foreign firm must be approved by the State Commodity and Raw Materials Exchange, the Central Bank, the Supreme Control Chamber, and the Cabinet of Ministers. This process \"is not transparent and is often politically driven,\" nor is there any assurance that \"information provided by companies to the Government of Turkmenistan will be kept confidential.\"\n\nU.S. diplomatic cables made public by Wikileaks called the construction industry the most corrupt in the nation, noting contractors regularly inflate prices by as much as 30 percent to pay bribes. Foreign contractors are said to regularly make illicit payments to Turkmen officials.\n\nA March 2009 report by Global Witness criticized Deutsche Bank for enabling former President Saparmurat Niyazov to siphon billions of public funds to a personal bank account. Niyazov was accused of stashing up to $3 billion in state energy revenues from 1995 until his death in 2006. The report also stated that \"Turkmenistan is the only country that Global Witness has ever come across where none of the natural resource wealth appeared to be making it on to the government's budget.\" Deutsche Bank declined to comment on whether other family members or government officials also have accounts.\n\nIn April 2010, the German and Russian subsidiaries of Daimler, which manufactures Mercedes-Benz and Smart cars, agreed to plead guilty to criminal charges and pay the U.S. Department of Justice a $185 million fine in exchange for the dismissal of a lawsuit against Daimler for violating \"fair trade\" rules. Meanwhile, the parent firm and its Chinese division agreed \"to suspend prosecution for two years, as long as they comply with certain conditions.\" Daimler had been accused of \"bribing foreign officials in at least 22 countries...between 1998 and 2008, according to court papers released yesterday.\" Among those countries was Turkmenistan. Daimler and its distributor had attempted to enter the Turkmen market in 2000 by presenting a €300,000 armored car to \"a high ranking Turkmen official\" and by arranging the publication of 10,000 copies in German of President Niyazov’s \"quasi-spiritual guidebook for the nation,\" The Ruhnama (Book of the Soul).\n\nThe US Embassy has noted that Turkmenistan has \"no independent 'watchdog' organization ... that monitors corruption.\" The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of National Security, and the General Prosecutor’s Office are technically responsible for fighting corruption, and Berdimuhamedow has said that he will not tolerate corruption. But these are widely viewed as empty guarantees. In November 2000, according to one source, \"officials from Turkmenistan’s General Prosecutor's Office, the Parliament, several government ministries, the Tax Service and law-enforcement agencies took part in a two-day workshop ... focusing on the implementation of the UN Convention against Corruption. The OSCE Centre in Ashgabat organized the workshop with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Office of the Co-ordinator of OSCE Economic and Environmental Activities and Turkmenistan's Foreign Ministry to help Turkmenistan's develop its legal framework on combating corruption. External participants discussed the main provisions of the Convention and experiences of implementing anti-corruption programmes from Kazakhstan, Latvia, Russia and Uzbekistan. Representatives from the OECD and the OSCE also presented their organizations' activities in the area of combating corruption.\"\n\nIn March 2005,Turkmenistan adopted the UN Anticorruption Convention. It is not, however, a member of the OECD convention on Combatting Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. In January 2010, Turkmenistan established a Financial Intelligence Unit under the Ministry of Finance, purportedly to enhance efforts to fight money laundering and the financing of terrorism. On January 1, 2012, Turkmenistan’s banks switched to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The country's government agencies transitioned to National Financial Reporting Standards (NFRS) in January 2014.\n\nIn October 2012, Berdimuhamedow \"announced that Turkmenistan would join the Egmont Group, an international organization specializing in the exchange of best practices on AML/CFT. Turkmenistan’s membership, he said, would demonstrate to the international community its commitment to combating money laundering and terrorism financing.\" As of August 2015, however, Turkmenistan had not yet joined the Egmont Group.\n\nIn March 2014, the Turkmen parliament passed an anti-corruption law that established \"a legal and institutional framework to help identify cases of corruption.\" Under this law, certain categories of civil servants were forbidden for the first time \"to engage in entrepreneurial activity, to open accounts in foreign banks, to accept gifts, contrary to established order, to receive honorary and special titles, awards and other insignia of foreign states, international organizations and political parties. Civil servants also have to provide information about their income, expenses and assets as well as income, expenses and assets of their [spouses] and minor children.\" The US Embassy noted, however, that given the country's \"weak legal institutions,\" it was \"difficult to see how this law could be effectively enforced.\" Also, while Turkmenistan has anti-corruption laws, they are not generally enforced.\n\nIn September 2014, seven Turkmen government and law-enforcement officials took part in an OSCE-organized study visit in Riga. The purpose was for the visitors \"to observe how anti-corruption and anti-money laundering mechanisms are implemented in practice\" in Latvia.\n\nAt a July 9, 2015, cabinet meeting, Berdimuhamedow fired several high officials, including his economy and development minister, a deputy premier overseeing the economic and finance sector, and a deputy premier in charge of agriculture. The president accused them of involvement in bribery and also said they \"had failed to assess the impact of the global crisis on Turkmenistan's economy.\" State television reported that \"80 banking, tax and financial services workers\" had been \"charged with committing various crimes\" in \"recent times.\"\n"}
{"id": "2403135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2403135", "title": "Dabke", "text": "Dabke\n\nDabke ( also spelled Dabka, Dubki, Dabkeh, plural Dabkaat), is an Arab folk dance native to the Levant. Dabke combines circle dance and line dancing and is widely performed at weddings and other joyous occasions. The line forms from right to left. The leader of the \"dabke\" heads the line, alternating between facing the audience and the other dancers. In English, its name is also transliterated \"dabka\", \"dabki\", \"dabkeh\".\n\nThe word 'Dabke' is derived from the Arabic word () meaning (\"stamping of the feet\").\n\nThe Palestinian dabkeh jumps may or may not have origins in age-old Canaanite fertility rites which reflected the increasing growth of plants. They were used to scare away evil forces and to protect the security and growth of seedlings.\n\nAccording to Yazbec, the Phoenicians were the first teachers of the dance in the world, and the dabke is a representative descendant of the Phoenician dances.\n\nAccording to one folk tradition, the dance originated in the Levant where houses were built from stone with a roof made of wood, straw and dirt. The dirt roof had to be compacted which required stomping the dirt hard in a uniform way to compact it evenly. This event of cooperation is called \"ta'awon\" and from here comes the word \"awneh\", meaning \"help.\" This developed into the song \"Ala Dalouna\" (), roughly translated, \"Let's go and help\". The dabke and the rhythmic songs go together in an attempt to keep the work fun and useful.\n\nIn Jordan there are around 19 types of The Jordanian Dabke. Habel Mwadea’ (حبل مودع) is the Jordanian dabke of any type performed by men and women jointly. Jordanian dabke types include but are not limited to:\n\n\nAmongst Palestinians, two common types of dabke are the \"shamaliyya\" and \"sha'rawiyya\" – which have six measure phrases – and the \"karaadiyya\" which has square phrases (of four or eight measures). Another type is the \"dabke niswaniyyah\", danced specifically by women. Each type of dabke dance has its own corresponding set of songs, the theme of which is often love.\nThere are six main types of dabke:\n\n\"Al-Shamaliyya\" \"(الشمالية)\": is probably the most famous type of dabke. It consists of a \"lawweeh\" \"(لويح)\" at the head of a group of men holding hands and formed in a semicircle. The \"lawweeh\" is expected to be particularly skilled in accuracy, ability to improvise, and quickness (generally light on his feet). Typically, the dabke begins with a musician playing a solo on the \"mijwiz\" or \"yarghoul\" of a \"Dal Ouna\" piece, often with two singers accompanying his music. The dancers develop a synchronized movement and step and when the singers finish their song, the \"lawweeh\" breaks from the semicircle to dance on his own. When the leader of the dabke sees that the men's steps are one, in sync, he instructs the dancers to slow down and begin a movement crossing their right foot in front of the opposite one (their left foot). The \"lawweeh\" continues to inform the dancers of their basic rhythms, and at this point other guests at the wedding or event occurring will join in the dabke line. This is the most popular and familiar form of dabke danced for happy family celebrations, such as weddings, circumcisions, the return of travelers, release of prisoners, and also for national holidays, in which dabke becomes a demonstration of national personality.\n\n\"Al-Sha’rawiyya\" \"(الشعراوية)\": is limited to men and is characterized by strong steps or stomps. The \"lawweeh\" is the most important element in this type of dabke.\n\n\"Al-Karaadiyya\" \"(الكرادية)\": is characterized by a lack of a \"lawweeh\" and slow movement with an \"azif\" \"(عازف)\" (flute player) in the middle of the circle.\n\n\"Al-Farah\" \"(الفره)\": is one of the most active types of dabke and therefore requires a high degree of physical fitness.\n\n\"Al-Ghazal\" \"(الغزل)\": is characterized by three strong stomps of the right foot, and is usually tiring for those dancing.\n\n\"Al-Sahja\" \"(السحجة)\": is a popular Palestinian and Jordanian dance which became significantly more popular during the British Mandate for Palestine. Al-Sahja belongs mostly to northern and central Palestine, and in the south has two kinds: As-Samir \"(السامر)\" and Al-Dahiyya \"(الدحية)\". As-Samir's form involves 2 rows of men on opposite walls, competing with folk poetry, sometimes improvised and even exchanging insults, competing in cleverness of retorts. Al-Dahiyya is a Bedouin version of the same kind in which there is a professional dancer that dances between the two opposing walls of men who are competing for her attention, and at times give her money. \"Al-Sahja\" usually occurs the night before the wedding party of the groom (\"zafat al-'arees\"), with most of the men in the village participating, especially those who will be attending or are directly involved in the other wedding festivities.\n\nThe \"Oxford International Encyclopedia of Dance\" also mentions these additional kinds of line dances in its entry under \"Middle East\":\n\nThe \"Murdah\" was originally performed by women in Arab states of the Persian Gulf while the men of the community were away on extended fishing and pearling expeditions. It involves two lines of dancers who move toward each other with small steps and then retreat while singing rhymed couplets. These couplets were largely laments for absent loved ones. Although seafaring is no longer economically important in the region, women continue to perform this dance at social gatherings.\n\nThe \"Ahwash\" (Fr., ahouache) performed by Berber tribes of the Moroccan High Atlas Mountains, includes one or several curved lines of men and one or several curved lines of women, the whole forming a circle or ellipse around male drummers (Jouad and Lortat-Jacob, 1978; Lortat-Jacob, 1980). One line recites a poem that the other line responds to with another poem; then all move to the beat of the drums. Customarily, the whole community participates. While performing, women dancers hold themselves very straight and move with staccato steps, holding onto the weaving rod of the house. Women as well as men compose the poetry that is recited. A similar dance reported for Morocco is the dukkala. In one variation a man and woman facing each other compete to see which one can dance the longest (Mercier, 1927).\n\nThere are numerous kinds of songs that are sung during and specifically for dabke, by both men and women respectively, depending on the occasion, song, and audience. Some of the most popular of these songs, such as \"Dal Ouna\" \"(دلعونا)\", \"Al Jafra\" \"(الجفرا)\", \"Al Dahiyya\" \"(الدحية)\", and \"Zareef il-Tool\" \"(ظريف الطول)\", are actually entire genres in themselves, in the sense that lyrics can vary significantly in each performance but the basic rhythm of the music is consistent and recognizable. This variation can be seen in the hundreds of lyrical variations heard and recorded of these songs which regardless of specific lyrics, are recognized by their rhythm and at times, a single phrase, as in \"Ala Dal Ouna, Jafra\", and others. For example, even though one might have heard \"Ala Dal Ouna\" sung previously telling a different story in this famous love song, people will still call another song ascribing to the same rhythm and theme as \"Dal Ouna\".\n\nThe Oud, from which the English word \"lute\" comes, is shaped like a half pear with a short non-fretted neck. It has six courses of two strings and played with a plectrum, usually a trimmed eagle’s feather. This instrument creates a deep and mellow sound.\n\nThe mijwiz \"(مجوز)\" which means “double” in Arabic is very popular in Lebanese music. It is a type of reed clarinet. It is played by breathing smoothly through a circular aperture at the end and by moving the fingers over the holes down the front of the tube in order to create the different notes. The minjjayrah is similar to the mijwiz, an open ended reed flute played in the same style..\n\nThe tablah is a small hand-drum also known as the durbakke. Most tablahs are beautifully decorated, some with wood, tile or bone inlay, etched metal, or paintings in designs typical of the Near East. One of the most commonly played of the percussion instruments; the tablah is a membranophone of goat or fish skin stretched over a vase-shaped drum with a wide neck. Usually made of earthenware or metal, it is placed either under the left arm or between the legs and struck in the middle for the strong beats and on the edge for the sharp in-between beats. Though today fishskin heads are rarely used due to the climate. When used it becomes loose, you would have to heat the head to get the correct sound back. The membrane or head of the drum is now made out of plastic. The most common head is from Alexandria, Egypt.\n\nThe daff, also known as the Riq, is similar to the tambourine. It consists of a round frame, covered on one side with goat or fish skin. Pairs of metal discs are set into the frame to produce the jingle when struck by the hand. The sounds of this percussion instrument set the rhythm of much Arab music, particularly in the performances of classical pieces.\n\nThe arghul, \"(يرغول)\" also known as the \"yarghoul\", is commonly used in solos, often accompanied by singers, that begin dabke performances. Unlike the \"mijwiz\", it only has finger holes in one of its pipes/reeds. (see \"Al-Shamaliyya\", under Types).\n\nCompetitions or shows may consist of different cultural dances and other \"dabke\" groups performing \"dabke\". For example, the International Fiesta which is well known at the University at Buffalo consists of a series of clubs performing their cultural dances. This competition occurs every semester in the main stage theater of the UB Center for the Arts during the spring time, usually at the end of February or beginning of March. This allows the Organization of Arab Students to participate and show the cultural awareness of \"dabke\". \nMany universities have an event called Arab Night or a similar title. When these shows occur, \"dabke\" is either performed on stage (inside or outside), in a hall on the floor, or outside on the floor.There are different steps that comprise the Debka dance: the belbel, the inzel, shemmel and taxi; a combination of each of these steps as well as the occasional jump and turn make the dance complete.\nIn America, the tradition has not been lost and is held in the same places as it would in the original homeland and the dance music is also commonly played in America at Arab-community cultural centers and conventions such as the annual convention hosted by the American Federation of Ramallah Palestine.\n\nIn August 2011, a group in a Lebanese village Dhour El Choueir, Lebanon set a new world record. Organized by Dhour El Choueir Summer Festival, a human chain of 5,050 was made and currently holds the world record.\n\nDhour El Choueir event broke the record set by Tollab, Lebanese Student Federation in Montreal, with the participation of \"La Troupe Folklorique Les Chevaliers du Liban\" that had made a human chain of 4,475 people dancing the \"dabke\" for more than five minutes straight at Montreal's Marcelin Wilson Park.\n\nTollab had itself broken a record of 2,743 set by a group of Israeli Arabs in Acre, Israel. An earlier record of 1,700 had been set in Toronto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26516971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26516971", "title": "Daud Arsala", "text": "Daud Arsala\n\nDaud Arsala ( داود ارسلاه ) (born 7 May 1965) is an Afghan politician, who ran for the Afghan parliamentarian election in 2005.\nHe was a chief campaigner of Hamid Karzia's presidential election in N.W.F.P in 2004. He and his party workers were warned many times by other political groups and Talibans in Nangarhar and some of his party's political activists were killed after the parliamentarian elections in 2005 and all allegations were on Hazrat Ali and Taliban.\n"}
{"id": "18517065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18517065", "title": "Demographic history of Romania", "text": "Demographic history of Romania\n\nThis article presents the demographic history of Romania through census results. See Demographics of Romania for a more detailed overview of the country's present-day demographics.\n\nThe 1930 census was the only one to cover Greater Romania. Censuses in 1948, 1956, 1966, 1977, 1992, 2002 and 2011 covered Romania's present-day territory. All but the 1948 census, which asked about mother tongue, had a question on ethnicity. Moldavia and Wallachia each held a census in 1859. The Romanian Old Kingdom conducted statistical estimates in 1884, 1889 and 1894, and held censuses in 1899 and 1912. Ion Antonescu's regime also held two: a general one in April 1941, and one for those with \"Jewish blood\" in May 1942.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Mainly in Dobruja (details)\n\nEthnic figures for 2011 are given as a percentage of individuals for whom data is available, while the \"data unavailable\" cohort is given as a percentage of the total population.\n\n"}
{"id": "1436412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1436412", "title": "Eba", "text": "Eba\n\nẸ̀bà is a staple food eaten in West African subregion and beyond. It is made from dried grated cassava (manioc) flour, commonly known as \"garri\".\n\nTo make ẹ̀bà, garri flour (which should be further pounded or ground if not already 'fine') is mixed into hot water and stirred well with a wooden spatula until it becomes like a firm dough, firmer than, say, mashed potatoes, so it can be rolled into a ball and can keep its shape. When you put hot water in the bowl of garri to make ẹbà, you leave it for a few seconds or minutes; then you stir it until i becomes a firm dough; then you can call it ẹ̀bà.\n\nTo eat, a small amount of ẹ̀bà is taken with the fingers and rolled into a small ball and dipped into the ọbẹ̀ (a thick soup) such as okra soup, bitter leaf (ewúro) soup or pepper soup (\"ọbẹ̀ ata\" or \"ẹ̀fọ́\" depending on dialect) with either okro, ọgbọnọ (Igbo)/apọn (Yorùbá), or ewédú, meat or fish, stewed vegetables or other sauces such as \"gbẹ̀gìrì\", banga soup or egusi soup (melon).\n\nẸ̀bà can either come as yellow or an offshade. It is made from mixing dried grated cassava with palmoil. \nGarri is very rich in starch and carbohydrate. It is quite heavy as a meal and a staple food of West Africans. It is often eaten with richly made soups and stews, with beef, stockfish or mutton depending on personal taste.\n\n"}
{"id": "21784366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21784366", "title": "Erromintxela language", "text": "Erromintxela language\n\nErromintxela () is the distinctive language of a group of Romani living in the Basque Country, who also go by the name Erromintxela. It is sometimes called \"Basque Caló\" or \"Errumantxela\" in English; \"caló vasco, romaní vasco,\" or \"errominchela\" in Spanish; and \"euskado-rromani\" or \"euskado-romani\" in French. Although detailed accounts of the language date to the end of the 19th century, linguistic research began only in the 1990s.\n\nThe Erromintxela are the descendants of a 15th-century wave of Kalderash Roma, who entered the Basque Country via France. Both ethnically and linguistically, they are distinct from the Caló-speaking Romani people in Spain and the Cascarot Romani people of the Northern Basque Country. Erromintxela is a mixed language (referred to as Para-Romani in Romani linguistics), deriving most of its vocabulary from Kalderash Romani but using Basque grammar, similar to the way the Angloromani language of the Roma in England mixes Romani vocabulary and English grammar. The development of the mixed language was facilitated by the unusually-deep integration of the Erromintxela people into Basque society and the resultant bilingualism in Basque. The language is in decline; most of the perhaps 1000 remaining speakers live on the coast of Labourd and in the mountainous regions of Soule, Navarre, Gipuzkoa and Biscay.\n\nThe origin of the name Erromintxela is unclear and may be of relatively recent origin; Basque speakers had previously grouped the Erromintxela under more general terms for Romani such as \"ijitoak\" \"Egyptians\", \"ungrianok\" \"Hungarians\", or \"buhameak\" \"Bohemians\". However, a number of authors believe it to be a Basque rendering of the French name \"romanichel\" or \"romané-michel,\" a name attested primarily in the vicinity of the Pyrenees and in particular the Northern Basque Country. \"Romanichel\" is in turn a French rendering of the Romani phrase \"Romani čel\" \"Romani person\". Though now uncommon in France, it is found in the names of the British Ròmanichal and the Scandinavian Romanisæl, all descendants, like the Erromintxela, of a group of Roma who had migrated to France.\n\nEarly attestations of the name in Basque include \"Errama-itçéla, Erroumancel,\" later \"errumanzel\" and \"erremaitzela.\" The initial \"e-\" is the Basque prosthetic vowel, which was added at a time that no Basque word was allowed to begin with an \"r-\". The final \"-a\" is the absolutive case suffix, which is used when citing a name. If that etymology is correct, it is a rare case of a native Romani name for themselves (an endonym) being borrowed by another language.\n\nThe people identify themselves as \"ijitoak,\" Basque for \"gypsies\", but more specifically as Erromintxela, in contrast to the Caló Romani, whom they refer to as the \"xango-gorriak,\" Basque for \"red-legs\".\n\nThere are currently an estimated 500 speakers in the Southern Basque Country in Spain, approximately 2% of a population of 21,000 Romanis, and another estimated 500 in France. In Spain the remaining fluent speakers are elderly people mostly over the age of 80; some are equally fluent in Spanish, Basque, or Caló. Middle-aged Erromintxela are mostly passive bilinguals, and the youngest speak only Basque or Spanish. In the Northern Basque Country, however, the language is still being passed on to children. The percentage of speakers among Spanish Erromintxela are higher than 2%, as large numbers of Caló-speaking Romanis moved to the Basque Country in the intense period of industrialisation in the 20th century.\n\nTo date, there has been little literary production in the language. The most notable works are a poem by Jon Mirande entitled \"Kama-goli\" in his 1997 anthology \"Orhoituz\" and the 1999 novel \"Agirre zaharraren kartzelaldi berriak\" by Koldo Izagirre Urreaga with the main character using the language.\n\nThe Erromintxela arrived in the Basque Country in the 15th century speaking Kalderash Romani. They integrated much more deeply into Basque society than other Romani groups. In the process, they acquired the Basque language and adopted aspects of Basque culture such as increased rights of women and important traditions such as bertsolaritza (extemporaneous poetic song) and pelota (the national Basque ballgame). Muñoz and Lopez de Mungia suspect that the morphological and phonological similarities between Romani and Basque facilitated the adoption of Basque grammar by the bilingual Romanis.\n\nIt appears that many Romanis chose to stay in the Basque Country to escape persecution elsewhere in Europe. Nonetheless, even here they were not safe from persecution. For example, the Royal Council of Navarre in 1602 passed an edict to round up all \"vagabonds\" (meaning Romani), who were to be condemned to 6 years of galley duty. By the 18th century however attitudes had changed, and the emphasis shifted towards integration. In 1780–1781 the Courts of Navarre passed Law 23, which called for \"the authorities to take care of them, find them locations for settlement and honest occupations and ways of living...\"\n\nThe oldest account of the language dates to 1855, when the French ethnographer Justin Cenac-Moncaut located the Erromintxela primarily in the Northern Basque Country. The oldest coherent Erromintxela text, a poem entitled \"Kama-goli,\" published by Basque writer Jon Mirande in a collection of Basque poetry, only dates to ca. 1960.\n\nAlexandre Baudrimont's 40-page study \"Vocabulaire de la langue des Bohémiens habitant les pays basques français\" of 1862, the most extensive of the early accounts, covers both vocabulary and aspects of grammar. He worked with two female informants, a mother and her daughter from the Uhart-Mixe area near Saint-Palais, whom he describes as highly fluent. Unfortunately, he was only able to conduct a single session as the women were then told not to cooperate further for the fear of outsiders prying into the secrets of the Romani. There is a certain degree of confusion in Baudrimont's publication—he himself states that he could not always be certain the correct forms were elicited. For example, most of the verb forms he tried to elicit lack the verbal \"-tu\" ending and appear to be participles.\n\nThe French sociologist Victor de Rochas refers to the Romani in the Northern Basque Country speaking Basque, rather than French, in his 1876 \"Les Parias de France et d'Espagne (cagots et bohémiens)\". The Canon Jean-Baptiste Daranatz published a wordlist in the periodical \"Eskualdun Ona\" in 1906 and in 1921 Berraondo and Oyarbide carried out some research. Although labelled \"gitano\" (Spanish for 'gypsy') or \"bohémien / gitan\" (French for 'gypsy'), some data can also be found in Azkue's 1905 dictionary and Pierre Lhande's 1926 dictionary, both of which list a number of words identifiable as Erromintxela.\n\nLittle more was done until the late 20th century. In 1986 Federico Krutwig published a short article in the \"Revista Internacional de Estudios Vascos\" entitled \"Los gitanos vascos\", with a short word list and a brief analysis of the language's morphology. However, the most detailed research to date was carried out by Basque philologist Josune Muñoz and historian Elias Lopez de Mungia, who began their work in the Southern Basque Country in 1996 at the behest of the Romani organisation Kalé Dor Kayiko, with support from the Euskaltzaindia and the University of the Basque Country. Kalé Dor Kayiko, who had been working to promote the Romani language, was alerted to the existence of Erromintxela in the 1990s through an article by the historian Alizia Stürtze, \"Agotak, juduak eta ijitoak Euskal Herrian\" \"Agotes, Jews, and Gypsies in the Basque Country\". Kalé Dor Kayiko intends to continue research into the language, attitudes, identity, and history of the Erromintxela people in the less well researched provinces of Navarre and the Northern Basque Country.\n\nThe research by Muñoz and Lopez de Mungia has confirmed that Erromintxela is not derived from Caló, the mixed Spanish-Romani language spoken throughout Spain, but is instead based on Kalderash Romani and the Basque language. The vocabulary appears to be almost exclusively Romani in origin; the grammar however, both morphology and syntax, derives from various Basque dialects. Few traces appear to remain of Romani grammatical structures. The language is incomprehensible to speakers of both Basque and of Caló. \n\nTypologically, Erromintxela displays the same features as the Basque dialects it derives its grammatical structures from. Its case marking follows the ergative–absolutive pattern where the subject of an intransitive verb is in the absolutive case (which is unmarked), the same case being used for the direct object of a transitive verb. The subject of a transitive verb is marked with the ergative case. Similarly, auxiliary verbs agree with the subject and any direct object and indirect object present and verb forms are marked for allocutive (i.e. a marker is used to indicate the gender of the addressee).\n\nSince both Erromintxela and Caló derive from Romani, many Erromintxela words are similar to Spanish Caló and Catalan Caló. \n\nAccording to Baudrimont's description of 1862 and modern southern sources, Erromintxela appears to have, at maximum, the sound system below. Southern speakers appear not to have the rounded vowel or the consonant , in line with north-south differences in Basque, and it is not clear if the northern distinction between and also exists in the south. \n\nBaudrimont uses a semi-phonetic system with the following diverging conventions:\nExamples of morphological features in Erromintxela:\nMost verbs have a Romani root plus the Basque verb forming suffix \"-tu.\" Examples of Erromintxela verbs are given below. (Forms given in angle brackets indicate spellings in the sources which are no longer in use. Basque is included for comparison.)\n\nMost Erromintxela verbal inflections are virtually identical to those found in Basque dialects:\nNegations are formed with \"na/nagi\" (Romani \"na/níči\"); cf Basque \"ez/ezetz\". The word for \"yes\" is \"ua\" (Romani \"va\"); cf Basque \"bai/baietz\".\n\nThe majority of nouns have Romani roots, but frequently attested with Basque suffixes. The variation of nouns cited with or without a final \"-a\" is likely due to informants supplying them with or without the absolutive ending. (Forms given in angle brackets indicate spellings in the sources which are no longer in use.)\nAccording to Baudrimot, the Erromintxela have adopted the Basque names of the months. Note that some of the Basque names represent pre-standardisation names of the months, e.g. August is \"Abuztua\" in Standard Basque rather than \"Agorrila\".\n\nBaudrimont claims that subdivisions of the year (apart from the months) are formed with the word \"breja\" (bréχa) \"year\": \"breja kinua\" \"month\" and \"breja kipia\" \"week\".\n\nNumerals (Basque included for contrasting purposes):\nAdjectives and adverbs are also mostly derived from Romani forms:\nPronouns are derived from both languages:\nMuch of Baudrimont's wordlist is easily related to other Erromintxela sources. However, some of the material collected by Baudrimont deserves a more detailed overview due to its peculiarities. Most of these relate to the verbs and verb forms he collected but some include nouns and other items.\n\nHis material contains a relatively high number of Basque-derived items.\nCertain items are peculiar. Baudrimont lists \"mintxa\" as \"tooth\". The Kalderash term is \"dand\" (\"daní\" in Caló) but the term given is immediately more reminiscent of Northern Basque \"mintzo\" \"speech\" or \"mintza\" \"skin\" (with expressive palatalization). This, and other similar items, raise the question of whether Baudrimont was simply pointing at items to elicit forms.\n\nThe forms he attempted to elicit are questionable in some cases as well. For example, he attempted to agricultural terms such as plough, harrow and aftermath from his (female) informants and records the suspiciously similar \"sasta\" \"plough\" and \"xatxa\" (shatsha) \"harrow\".\n\nThe verb systems and pronouns recorded by Baudrimont is peculiar in several ways. Apart from his problem of eliciting the citation form of verbs as opposed to participles, he lists pronouns and possessive pronouns that appear to contain Romani roots and an unexpected auxiliary.\n\nThe verb \"ajin\" for \"to have\" attested elsewhere although Basque derived forms appear more common overall. Kalderash Romani employs the 3rd person of \"to be\" and a dative pronoun to express ownership:\n\nThe negative particle \"na\" is fairly clear in the forms above. \"Buter\", as Baudrimont notes, is the word for \"much, many\" and may not be a true pronoun. Kalderash uses the accusative pronouns to express possession but the forms above are more reminiscent of wrongly parsed Kalderash dative forms \"mangé, tuké, léske, léke\" etc. and perhaps a different case of \"to be\" (the full Kalderash paradigm being \"sim, san, si, si, sam, san/sen, si\"). \n\nOn the whole, it raises questions about the level of communication between Baudrimont and his informants and the quality of (some of the) material elicited.\n\nExamples with interlinear versions (lexical items of Romani origin marked in bold):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57976", "title": "Eusko Abendaren Ereserkia", "text": "Eusko Abendaren Ereserkia\n\nIt should not be confused with Eusko Gudariak (\"Basque Soldiers\"), the anthem of the \"Eusko Gudarostea\" (the Basque Army during the Spanish Civil War) or with the \"Gernikako Arbola\" (\"The tree of Guernica\"), a popular Basque song.\n\nIt is sung to a traditional Basque tune. One of the most prominent Basque nationalists, Sabino Arana, wrote the lyrics. It was used by his party (PNV) and in the 1930s adopted by the first Basque government.\n\nIts re-proclamation by the Basque Parliament on 14 April 1983 was opposed by several parties that deemed it still to be bound to the PNV rather than to the rest of the Basques.\nThe law makes official the music with no lyrics, since opposition parties felt the Arana text too religious and linked to PNV.\n\nIt is a testament to the word usage of Sabino Arana that the three words of the title are neologisms he created himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "145072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145072", "title": "Failed state", "text": "Failed state\n\nA failed state is a political body that has disintegrated to a point where basic conditions and responsibilities of a sovereign government no longer function properly (see also fragile state and state collapse). Likewise, when a nation weakens and its standard of living declines, it introduces the possibility of total governmental collapse. The Fund for Peace characterizes a failed state as having the following characteristics:\n\nCommon characteristics of a failing state include a central government so weak or ineffective that it has an inability to raise taxes or other support, and has little practical control over much of its territory and hence there is a non-provision of public services. When this happens, widespread corruption and criminality, the intervention of state and non-state actors, the appearance of refugees and the involuntary movement of populations, sharp economic decline, and foreign military intervention can occur.\n\nThe level of government control required to avoid being considered a failed state varies considerably amongst authorities. Furthermore, the declaration that a state has \"failed\" is generally controversial and, when made authoritatively, may carry significant geopolitical consequences.\n\nAccording to the political theories of Max Weber, a state is defined as maintaining a monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force within its borders. When this is broken (e.g., through the dominant presence of warlords, paramilitary groups, armed gangs, or terrorism), the very existence of the state becomes dubious, and the state becomes a \"failed state\". The difficulty of determining whether a government maintains \"a monopoly on the legitimate use of force\", which includes the problems of the definition of \"legitimate\", means it is not clear precisely when a state can be said to have \"failed\".\n\nThe problem of legitimacy can be solved by understanding what Weber intended by it. Weber explains that only the state has the means of production necessary for physical violence. This means that the state does not require legitimacy for achieving monopoly on having the means of violence (\"de facto\"), but will need one if it needs to use it (\"de jure\").\n\nTypically, the term means that the state has been rendered ineffective and is not able to enforce its laws uniformly or provide basic goods and services to its citizens because of (variously) high crime rates, insurgency, extreme political corruption, an impenetrable and ineffective bureaucracy, judicial ineffectiveness, military interference in politics, and cultural situations in which traditional leaders wield more power than the state over a certain area. Other factors of perception may be involved. A derived concept of \"failed cities\" has also been launched, based on the notion that while a state may function in general, polities at the substate level may collapse in terms of infrastructure, economy and social policy. Certain areas or cities may even fall outside state control, becoming a \"de facto\" ungoverned part of the state.\n\nThere is no real consensus on the definition of a \"failed state\"; the subjective nature of indicators that are used to measure state failure have led to an ambiguous understanding of the term. Some scholars focus on the capacity and effectiveness of the government to determine if a state is failed or not. Other indices such as the Fund for Peace’s Fragile States Index underline the democratic character of state institutions in order to determine its level of failure. Finally, other scholars focus their argument on the legitimacy of the state, on the nature of the state, on the growth of criminal violence in a state, on the economic extractive institutions, or on the states’ capacity to control its territory. Robert H. Bates refers to state failure as the \"implosion of the state\", where the state transforms \"into an instrument of predation\" and the state effectively loses its monopoly on the means of force.\n\nAs part of the debate about the state failure definition, Charles T. Call (2010) attempts to abandon the concept of state failure altogether; as, he argues, it promotes an unclear understanding of what state failure means. Indeed, one of the main contributions to the theorization of the \"failed-state\" is the \"gap framework\" developed by Call (2010). This framework builds on his previous (2008) criticisms of ‘state failure’, as a concept used as a catch-all term for diverse states with varying problems and as a base and explanation for universal policy prescriptions. It unpacks the concept of \"state failure\" focusing on three gaps that the state is not able to provide when it is in the process of failure: capacity, when state institutions lack the ability to effectively deliver basic goods and services to its population; security, when the state is unable to provide security to its population under the threat of armed groups; and legitimacy, when a \"significant portion of its political elites and society reject the rules regulating power and the accumulation and distribution of wealth.\" The \"gap framework\" seems to be more useful than other definitions. Instead of attempting to quantify the degree of failure of a state, the gap framework provides a three-dimensional scope useful to analyse the interplay between the government and the society in states in a more analytical way. Call does not necessarily suggest that states that suffer from the challenges of the three gaps should be identified as failed states; but instead, presents the gap idea as an alternative to the state failure concept as a whole. Although Call recognizes that the gap concept in itself has limits, since often states face two or more of the gap challenges, his conceptual proposition presents a useful way for more precisely identifying the challenges within a society and the policy prescriptions that are more likely to be effective for external and international actors to implement.\n\nFurther critique for the way in which the way the ‘failed state’ concept has been understood and operationalised is brought forth in research by Morten Bøås and Kathleen M. Jennings who, drawing on five case studies—Afghanistan, Somalia, Liberia, Sudan, and the Niger Delta region of Nigeria—argue that \"the use of the ‘failed state’ label is inherently political, and based primarily on Western perceptions of Western security and interests\". They go on to suggest that Western policy-makers attribute the 'failed' label to those states in which 'recession and informalisation of the state is perceived to be a threat to Western interests'. Furthermore, this suggests a hypocritical approach on behalf of Western policy-makers, due to the fact that the characteristics that would lead certain states to be labelled as failed are accepted in other states where these characteristics are in accordance with Western interests. In fact, \"this feature of state functioning is not only accepted, but also to a certain degree facilitated, as it creates an enabling environment for business and international capital. These cases are not branded ‘failed states'\".\n\nA relevant contribution to the field of failed states and its attributes was made by J. Goldstone in his paper \"Pathways to State Failure\". He defines a failed state as one that has lost both its effectiveness and legitimacy. Effectiveness means the capability to carry out state functions such as providing security or levying taxes. Legitimacy means the support of important groups of the population. A state that retains one of these two aspects is not failed as such; however it is in great danger of failing soon if nothing is done. He identifies five possible pathways to state failure:\n\n\nAlthough Goldstone identifies pathways to state failure he is quick to warn about simplifying the issue. Often (re)-building either legitimacy or effectiveness implies a trade off with the other aspect of the state. Since these states are missing one of the two pillars to stability, it is dangerous to initiate such a trade-off as it takes time to rebuild trust from the population. \nAlthough state failure has been studied for decades by numerous scholars, it remains a contested concept vulnerable to political, ideological and economical agendas.\n\nThe measurement methods of state failure are generally divided into the quantitative and the qualitative approach.\n\nQuantitative measurement of state failure means the creation of indexes and rankings underlying certain indicators. To measure state failure the \"Fragile States Index\" (FSI), formerly called \"Failed States Index\", the \"Fragility Index\" (FI) and the \"State Fragility Index\" (SFI) are particularly important. However, a number of other indexes are generally used to describe state weakness, often focusing on the developmental level of the state. Examples are: the \"Freedom House Index\" (FHI), the \"Human Development Index\" (HDI) or the \"World Bank Governance Indicators\". Additionally, regional evaluation might give concrete details about, inter alia, the level of democracy such as the Report of Democratic Development in Latin America (\"Informe de desarrollo democrático de América Latina\"). However, the Fragile States Index has received comparatively much attention since its first publication in 2005. Edited by the magazine \"Foreign Policy\", the ranking examines 178 countries based on analytical research of the Conflict Assessment System Tool (CAST) of the Fund for Peace.\n\nThe Fragile States Index published its eleventh annual report in 2015, prepared by the Fund for Peace and published by \"Foreign Policy Magazine\". The Index categorizes states in four categories, with variations in each category. The Alert category is in dark red, Warning in orange, Stable in yellow and Sustainable in green.\n\nThe FSI total score is out of 120, and in 2015 there were 178 states making the ranking. Initially, the FSI only ranked 75 countries in 2005. The FSI uses two criteria by which a country qualifies to be included in the list: first of all, the country must be a United Nations member state, and secondly, there must be a significant sample size of content and data available for that country to allow for meaningful analysis. There are three groupings: social, economic and political with overall twelve indicators.\n\nSocial indicators:\nEconomic indicators:\nPolitical and military indicators:\nThe indicators each count for 10, adding up to a total of 120. However, in order to add up to 120, the indicator scores are rounded up-or-down to the nearest one decimal place. In the 2015 Index, South Sudan ranked number one, Somalia number two, and the Central African Republic number three. Finland is currently the most stable and sustainable country in the list.\n\nWhile it is important to note that the FSI is used in many pieces of research and makes the categorization of states more pragmatic, it often receives much criticism due to several reasons. Firstly, it does not include the Human Development Index to reach the final score, but instead focuses on institutions to measure what are often also considered human aspects for development. Secondly, it parallels fragility or vulnerability of states with underdevelopment. This comparison firstly assumes that underdevelopment (economic) creates vulnerability, thus assuming that if a state is \"developed\" it is stable or sustainable. Thirdly, it measures the failure (or success) of a state without including the progress of other areas outside the sphere of the 12 indicators, thus excluding important measures of development such as the decline in child mortality rates, and increased access to clean water sources and medication, amongst others. Nonetheless, when discussing failed states it is important to mention the FSI not just for its use by governments, organisations, educators and analysts, but also because it provides a measure of assessment that tries to address the issues that cause threats, both domestically and internationally.\n\nThe qualitative approach embraces theoretical frameworks. Normally, this type of measurement applies stage models to allow a categorisation of states. In three to five stages, researchers show state failure as a process. Notable researchers, inter alia, are\nRobert I. Rotberg in the Anglo-American and Ulrich Schneckener in the German sphere.\n\nUlrich Schneckener’s (2006) stage model defines three core elements, monopoly of violence, legitimacy and rule of law. The typology is based on the \"security first\" logic and thus, shows the relevance of the monopoly of violence in comparison to the other two while at the same time acting as the precondition for a functioning state. His four statehood types are: (1) consolidated and consolidating states, (2) weak states, (3) failing and (4) collapsed/failed states. The first type is directed towards functioning states; all core functions of the state are functioning in the long term. In weak states, the monopoly of force is still intact, but the other two areas show serious deficits. Failing states lack the monopoly of force, while the other areas function at least partially. Finally, collapsed or failed states are dominated by parastatal structures characterised by actors trying to create a certain internal order, but the state cannot sufficiently serve the three core elements.\n\nBoth research approaches show some irregularities. While the quantitative approach lacks transparency concerning its indicators and their balancing in the evaluation process of countries, the qualitative approach shows a diversity of different foci. One of the major discrepancies is the question whether all the stages have to be taken continuously or if a state can skip one phase. Schneckener stresses that his model should actually not be interpreted as a stage model as, in his opinion, states do not necessarily undergo every stage. Robert I. Rotberg’s model underlies an ordinal logic and thus, implies that the state failure process is a chronological chain of phases.\n\nCharles Tilly (1985) argued that war-making was an indispensable aspect of state development in Europe through the following interdependent functions:\nTilly summarized this linkage in the famous phrase: \"War made the state, and the state made war.\"\n\nSimilarly, Herbst (1990) added that a war might be the only chance to strengthen an extraction capability since it forced rulers to risk their political lives for extra revenue and forced subjects to consent to pay more tax. It is also important for state development in that the increased revenue would not return to its original level even after the end of wars. Contrary to European states, however, he also pointed out that most Third World states lacked external threats and had not waged interstate wars, implying that these states are unlikely to take similar steps in the future.\n\nSteward and Knaus (2012) tackled a question \"can intervention work?\" and concluded that \"we can help nations build themselves\" by putting an end to war and providing \"well resourced humanitarian interventions.\" They criticized the overconfidence of policy makers on nation-building by contrasting successful interventions in Bosnia (1995) and Kosovo (1999) with failed attempt of nation-building in Iraq (2003) and Afghanistan (2001) in which the U.S. lost thousands of lives over ten years and expended more than a trillion dollars without realizing its central objective of nation-building.\n\nPritchett, Woolcock and Andrews (2013) analyzed the systematic failure of the development of failed states. They defined \"state administrative capability for implementation\" as the key aspect of state development, and found out the mechanism in which failed states stumbled regardless of decades of development practices tried, billions of dollars spent, and alleged \"progress\" boasted. These countries adopted the following techniques which led to undermine it: \n\nIn light of the fact that many of these countries would likely need centuries to reach the state capability of developed countries, they suggested creating \"context-specific institutions\", promoting \"incremental reform process\", and setting \"realistic expectations\" for attaining the goal of substantial development.\n\nMoss, Todd, Gunilla Pettersson, and Nicolas Van de Walle (2006) acknowledged the controversy over the effect of foreign aid that has developed in recent years. They argued that although there is a call for an increase in large aid efforts in Africa by the international community, this will actually create what they call an “aid-institutions paradox.” This paradox is formed because the large cash contributions that Western countries have given to African countries have created institutions that are “less accountable to their citizens and under less pressure to maintain popular legitimacy.” They mention that the gradual decrease of aid may help foster long-lasting institutions, which is proven by the United States’ efforts in Korea after the Cold War.\n\nBerman, Eli, Felter, Shapiro, and Trolan (2013) also found similar evidence to support the paradox, stating that large US aid attempts in African agriculture have only resulted in further conflict between citizens. Notably, small investments such as grants for schools have proven to decrease violence compared to large investments, which create “incentives to capture economic rents through violence.”\n\nFurthermore, Binyavanga Wainaina (2009) likens Western aid to colonization, in which countries believe that large cash contributions to spur the African economy will lead to political development and less violence. In reality, these cash contributions do not invest in Africa’s growth economically, politically and most of all, socially.\n\nJames Fearon and David Laitin (2004) suggest that the problem of failed states can be addressed through a system of \"neotrusteeship,\" which they compare to \"postmodern imperialism.\" Fearon and Laitin's idea of neotrusteeship involves a combination of international and domestic organizations which seek to rebuild states. Fearon and Laitin start with the assumption that failed states comprise a collective action problem. Failed states impose negative externalities on the rest of the international system, like refugees who are displaced by war. It would be a net good for the international system if countries worked to develop and rebuild failed states. However, intervention is very costly, and no single nation has a strong enough incentive to act to solve the problem of a failed state. Therefore, international cooperation is necessary to solve this collective action problem.\n\nFearon and Laitin identify four main problems to achieving collective action to intervene in failed states:\n\nFearon and Laitin do propose some solutions to these problems. To solve the recruitment problem, they argue for having a powerful state with security interests in the failed state to take the lead in the peacekeeping operations and serve a point role. Having a single state lead the peacekeeping operation would also help solve the coordination problem. Empowerment of a UN body to investigate human rights abuses would solve the accountability problem. Finally, forcing the failed state to contribute funds to peacekeeping operations after several years can reduce the incentives of the peacekeepers to exit. Fearon and Laitin believe that multilateral interventions which solve the above four collective action problems will be more effective at rebuilding failed states through neotrusteeship.\n\nJeremy Weinstein disagrees that peacekeeping is necessary to rebuild failed states, arguing that it is often better to allow failed states to recover on their own. Weinstein fears that international intervention may prevent a state from developing strong internal institutions and capabilities. One of Weinstein's key arguments is that war leads to peace. By this, he means that peace agreements imposed by the international community tend to freeze in place power disparities that do not reflect reality. Weinstein believes that such a situation leaves a state ripe for future war, while if the war were allowed to play out for one side to win decisively, future war would be much less likely. Weinstein also claims that war lead to the development of strong state institutions. Weinstein borrows from Charles Tilly to make this argument, which states that wars require large expansions in state capabilities, so the states that are more stable and capable will win wars and survive in the international system through a process similar to natural selection. Weinstein uses evidence from Uganda's successful recovery following a guerilla victory in a civil war, Eritrea's forceful secession from Ethiopia, and development in Somaliland and Puntland—autonomous regions of Somalia—to support his claims. Weinstein does note that lack of external intervention can lead to mass killings and other atrocities, but he emphasizes that preventing mass killings has to be weighed against the ensuing loss of long-term state capacity.\n\nCapability trap means that countries are progressing at a very slow pace in the expansion of state capability even in the contemporary world, which is also the core problem of failed states. Many countries remain stuck in conditions of low productivity that many call “poverty traps.” Economic growth is only one aspect of development; another key dimension of development is the expansion of the administrative capability of the state, the capability of governments to affect the course of events by implementing policies and programs. Capability traps close the space for novelty, establishing fixed best-practice agendas as the basis of evaluating failed states. Local agents are therefore excluded from the process of building their own states, implicitly undermining the value-creating ideas of local leaders and front line workers.\n\nMatt, Lant and Woolcock from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government proposed an approach called the \"Problem Driven Iterative Adaptation (PDIA)\", to escaping the capability traps. Given that many development initiatives fail to improve performance because they promote \"isomorphic mimicry\", PDIA focuses on solving locally nominated and prioritized performance problems of failed states. It involves pursuing development interventions that engage broad sets of local agents to ensure the reforms are politically supportable and practically implementable.\n\nLarry Diamond (2006) argues that weak and failed states pose distinctive problems for democracy promotion. In these states, the challenge is not only to pressure authoritarian state leaders to surrender power but rather to figure out how to regenerate legitimate power in the first place.\n\nThere are mainly two distinct types of cases, and each of these three types of cases requires specific kinds of strategies for democracy promotion:\n\nGenerally speaking, order is the most important prerequisite for democracy promotion, which relies heavily on formal democratic mechanisms, particularly elections to promote post-conflict state-building. In the absence of an effective state, there are basically three possibilities: If there has been a civil war and a rebel force has ultimately triumphed, then the vacuum may be filled by the rebellious army and political movement as it establishes control over the state; second, there may be a patchwork of warlords and armies, with either no real central state (as in Somalia) or only a very weak one. In this situation, the conflict does not really end, but may wax and wane in decentralized fashion, as in Afghanistan today; the third possibility is that an international actor or coalition of actors steps in to constitute temporary authority politically and militarily. This may be an individual country, a coalition, an individual country under the thin veneer of a coalition, or the United Nations acting through the formal architecture of a UN post-conflict mission.\n\nAccording to U.S. Department of Justice Trial Attorney Dan E. Stigall, \"the international community is confronted with an increasing level of transnational crime in which criminal conduct in one country has an impact in another or even several others. Drug trafficking, human trafficking, computer crimes, terrorism, and a host of other crimes can involve actors operating outside the borders of a country which might have a significant interest in stemming the activity in question and prosecuting the perpetrator\".\n\nA study of the Cligendael Center for Strategic Studies explains why states that are subject to failure serve as sanctuaries (used to plan, execute, support, and finance activities) for terrorist organisations. When the government does not know about the presence of the organisation or if it is not able to weaken or remove the organisation, the sanctuary is referred to as a \"Terrorist Black Hole\". However, next to governmental weakness there need to be \"Terrorist Comparative Advantages\" present for a region to be considered as a \"Terrorist Black Hole\". According to the study, social tensions, the legacy from civil conflict, geography, corruption and policy failure, as well as external factors contribute to governmental weakness. The comparative advantages are: religion and ethnicity, the legacy from civil conflict, geography, economic opportunities, economic underdevelopment and regional stimuli. Only the combinations of the two factors (governmental weakness and Terrorist Comparative Advantages) explain what regions terrorists use as sanctuaries.\n\nResearch by James Piazza of the Pennsylvania State University finds evidence that nations affected by state failure experience and produce more terrorist attacks. Contemporary transnational crimes \"take advantage of globalization, trade liberalization and exploding new technologies to perpetrate diverse crimes and to move money, goods, services and people instantaneously for purposes of perpetrating violence for political ends\".\n\nContributing to previous research on the matter, Tiffiany Howard looks at a different dimension of the connection between state failure and terrorism, based on evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa. She argues that \"citizens of failed states are attracted to political violence because of the deteriorating conditions within this type of states\". Focusing on individual citizens decision-making patterns, it is suggested that \"individuals living in failed states are\nattracted to political violence because the system is broken—the state has failed in its duty\". This finding is based on empirical evidence using barometer survey data. This individual-level approach, which differs from previous research which has focused on the attractiveness of failed states for terrorists and insurgents finds that \"failed states threaten an individual’s survival, which ultimately drives them to obtain tangible political and economic resources through other means, which include the use of political violence\". This finding has significant implications for the international community, such as the fact that \"this pattern of deprivation makes individuals in these states more susceptible to the influence of internationally sponsored terrorist groups. As a consequence, failed states are breeding grounds for terrorists, who then export their radical ideologies to other parts of the world to create terrorist threats across the globe\"\n\nThe link between state failure (and its characteristics) and terrorism, however, is not unanimously accepted in the scholarly literature. Research by Alberto Abadie, which looks at determinants of terrorism at the country level, suggests that the \"terrorist risk is not significantly higher for poorer countries, once the effects of other country-specific characteristics such as the level of political freedom are taken into account\". In fact, as the argument goes, \"political freedom is shown to explain terrorism, but it does so in a non-monotonic way: countries in some intermediate range of political freedom are shown to be more prone to terrorism than countries with high levels of political freedom or countries with highly authoritarian regimes\". While poverty and low levels of political freedom are not the main characteristics of failed states, they are nevertheless important ones. For this reason, Abadie's research represents a powerful critique to the idea that there is a link between state failure and terrorism. This link is also questioned by other scholars, such as Corinne Graff, who argues that 'there is simply no robust empirical relationship between poverty and terrorist attacks'.\n\nMoreover, \"problems of weakened states and transnational crime create an unholy confluence that is uniquely challenging. When a criminal operates outside the territory of an offended state, the offended state might ordinarily appeal to the state from which the criminal is operating to take some sort of action, such as to prosecute the offender domestically or extradite the offender so that he or she may face punishment in the offended state. Nonetheless, in situations in which a government is unable (or unwilling) to cooperate in the arrest or prosecution of a criminal, the offended state has few options for recourse\".\n\nThe term “failed state” has faced criticism along two main strands. The first argues that the term lends itself to overgeneralization, by lumping together different governance problems amongst diverse countries, and without accounting for variations of governance within states. The second is concerned with the political application of the term in order to justify military interventions and state-building based on a Western model of the state.\n\nOlivier Nay, William Easterly and Laura Freschi have complained that the concept of state failure “has no coherent definition”, with indexes combining various indicators of state performance with arbitrary weights to arrive at unclear and aggregated measurements of state fragility. Call (2008) argues that the label of ‘failed state’ has been applied so widely that it has been effectively rendered useless. As there has been little consensus over how to define failed states, the characteristics commonly used to identify a failing state are numerous and extremely diverse, from human rights violations, poverty, corruption to demographic pressures. This means that a wide range of highly divergent states are categorised together as failed (or failing) states. This can conceal the complexity of the specific weaknesses identified within individual states and result in one size fits all approach typically focused on strengthening the state’s capacity for order. Furthermore, the use of the term 'failed state' has been used by some foreign powers as a justification for invading a country, or determining a specific prescriptive set of foreign policy goals. Following 2001, Call notes that the US stated that failed states were one of the greatest security threats facing the country, based on the assumption that a country with weak – or non-existent – state institutions would provide a safe haven for terrorists, and act as a breeding ground for extremism.\n\nCall (2008) suggests that instead of branding countries as failed states they could be categorised in more relevant understandable terms. For example, a 'collapsed state' would refer to a country where the state apparatus completely falls apart and ceases to exist for a couple of months. This would only apply to a country where absolutely no basic functions of the state were working, and non-state actors were carrying out such tasks. A 'weak state' could be used for states whereby informal institutions carry out more of the public services and channelling of goods than formal state institutions. A 'war-torn' state, might not be functioning because of conflict, but this does not necessarily imply it is a collapsed state. Rotburg argued that all failed states are experiencing some form of armed conflict. However, the challenges to the state can be very different depending on the type of armed conflict, and whether it encompasses the country as a whole and large territories, or is specifically focused around one regional area. Another type of state that has been traditionally put under the umbrella term 'failed state' could be an 'authoritarian state'. While authoritarian leaders might come to power by violent means, they may ward off opposition once in power and as such ensure there is little violence within their regime. Call (2008) argues that the circumstances and challenges facing state-building in such regimes are very different to those posed in a state in civil war. These four alternative definitions highlight the many different circumstances that can lead a state to be categorised under the umbrella term a 'failed state', and the danger of adopting prescriptive one-size-fits-all policy approaches to very different situations.\n\nPakistan has been used as an example of how intrastate variations in governance undermine the concept of state failure. The British writer Anatol Lieven draws a distinction between \"genuinely failed and failing\" states in Sub-Saharan Africa with states in South Asia, whose rulers he says \"have not traditionally exercised direct control over ... most of their territory and have always faced continual armed resistance somewhere or other\". Although he concedes that Pakistan might be considered \"failed\" when compared to the industrialized states of Western Europe, he criticizes how commentators use the War in North-West Pakistan to brand Pakistan as \"failed\".\n\nIn addition to the previous critiques of the 'failed state' concept, Alex Maroya argues that the term 'failed' is limited in its approach. He suggests that \"it is the model of statehood based on territorially sovereign, extensive central government that has failed much of the world, and the frontier areas of the former European empires in particular.\" Rather than producing states that mirror the Western system, these states should develop their own model of statehood, which does not use coercion as a form of rule. The author, in fact, argues for more radically decentralised concepts of the state, instead of the rigid borders which have contributed to conflict and instability. In 2003, Maroya argued that certain so-called \"failed states\" might be better off under a decentralized government. Instead of merely labelling these states as 'failed' and almost 'doomed' to perpetual conflict, the literature should focus on alternatives such as multiple levels of governance and regional integration. In other words, \"the international relations discourse needs to move away from blithe talk of 'state failure' and towards a critical understanding of the kinds of states that have developed in former frontier regions.\"\n\nThe concept has been criticised for being teleological, ahistorical and reflecting a Western bias of what constitutes a successful state. Inherent in the concept of the failed state is the assumed association with terrorism and other transnational threats. They are sometimes described as incubators for international terrorism.\n\n\n\nFor a critical approach, see: \n"}
{"id": "35132866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35132866", "title": "Gumalu language", "text": "Gumalu language\n\nGumalu is a Papuan language of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "24713239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24713239", "title": "Hiperbarrio", "text": "Hiperbarrio\n\nHiperbarrio comprises a small group of digital communities that use free media self-publishing tools on the Internet in order to practice and promote new forms of self-representation and participation in the Knowledge Society.\n\nBy means of blogs, podcasts, YouTube and dotSUB video, young people from peripheral areas in Colombia learn to think critically and to publish their own stories, experiences, and views about themselves and their surroundings. HiperBarrio engages people in the gathering the Cultural and historical memory of their local neighborhoods, the Fine Arts, Free Culture Self-expression and Citizen journalism.\n\nWhat motivates and inspires their work are issues of transparency in social exchanges, the defense of The Public Good and the cooperation and participation of all human beings and specially those historically neglected and underprivileged. Through different projects the participants become authors and engaged participants in their social and geographic environments. HiperBarrio is part of Global Voices Online Advocacy Program which through \"Rising Voices\" gathers, and links 22 groups scattered throughout the world.\n"}
{"id": "21328678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21328678", "title": "History of Christianity in Ireland", "text": "History of Christianity in Ireland\n\nThis article details the history of Christianity in Ireland. Ireland is an island to the north-west of continental Europe. Politically, Ireland is divided between the Republic of Ireland, which covers just under five-sixths of the island, and Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom, which covers the remainder and is located in the north-east of the island. Roman Catholicism is the largest religious denomination, representing over 73% for the island and about 87% of the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe introduction of Christianity to Ireland dates to sometime before the 5th century, presumably in interactions with Roman Britain. Christian worship had reached pagan Ireland around 400 AD. It is often misstated that St. Patrick brought the faith to Ireland, but it was already present on the island before Patrick arrived. Monasteries were built for monks who wanted permanent communion with God. The lengths they went to for tranquility are evident from the monastery of Skellig Michael. Via Aidan, Christianity spread among the Picts and Northumbrians.\n\nScholars have long considered the term \"Celtic Church\" to be inappropriate for describing Christianity among Celtic-speaking peoples, since this would imply a notion of unity, or a self-identifying entity, that did not exist. As Paul Wormald explained, \"One of the common misconceptions is that there was a 'Roman Church' to which the 'Celtic' was nationally opposed.\" Celtic-speaking areas were part of Latin Christendom as a whole, wherein a significant degree of liturgical and structural variation existed, along with a collective veneration of the Bishop of Rome that was no less intense in Britain and Ireland. Some scholars have chosen to apply the term \"Insular Christianity\" to this Christian practice that arose around the Irish Sea.\n\nAccording to Prosper of Aquitaine, Palladius was from a noble family in Gaul. In 429, he was serving as a deacon in Rome. The Pope commissioned him to send Germanus, Bishop of Auxerre, to investigate rumors of Pelagianism in Britain. In 431, Pope Celestine I consecrated Palladius a bishop and sent him to minister to the \"Scots believing in Christ\". His mission mainly seems to have been to Irish Christians in the east midlands, Leinster, and perhaps east Munster. It is uncertain if he converted any Irish. What little is known of his mission appears to have been successful, though it was later downplayed by partisans of Patrick.\n\nSaint Patrick's dates are uncertain. All that can be said is that he was alive sometime in the fifth century, and was a missionary bishop rather than ministering to Christians. His areas appear to have been Ulster and north Connacht, but very little can be said with certainty about him. Later tradition from the seventh-century onwards is known to be unreliable.\n\nMonastic establishments arose in the sixth century, such as Clonard, founded by St. Finian, Clonfert by St. Brendan, Bangor by St. Comgall, Clonmacnoise by St. Kieran, Killeaney by St. Enda; and, in the seventh century, Lismore by St. Carthage and Glendalough by St. Kevin.\n\nIn 563, St. Columba, a native of Donegal, accompanied by a few companions, crossed the sea to Caledonia and founded a monastery on the desolate island of Iona.\n\nFresh arrivals came from Ireland; the monastery with Columba as its abbot was soon a flourishing institution, from which the Dalriadian Scots in the south and the Picts beyond the Grampians were evangelized. When Columba died in 597, Christianity had been preached and received in every district in Caledonia, and in every island along its west coast. In the next century Iona had so prospered that its abbot, St. Adamnan, wrote in excellent Latin the \"Life of St. Columba\". From Iona had gone south the Irish Aidan and his Irish companions to evangelize Northumbria, Mercia, and Essex.\n\nMissionaries from Ireland to England and Continental Europe spread news of the flowering of learning, and scholars from other nations came to Irish monasteries. The excellence and isolation of these monasteries helped preserve Latin learning during the Early Middle Ages. The period of Insular art, mainly in the fields of illuminated manuscripts, metalworking, and sculpture flourished and produced such treasures as the Book of Kells, the Ardagh Chalice, and the many carved stone crosses that dot the island.\n\nThese monasteries served as sanctuary to many of the continents great scholars and theologians. It was here that the lamp of Latin learning was preserved for the ages. During this age, the great illuminated manuscripts of Ireland were produced. Arguably the finest such work is \"The Book of Kells\" which may still be viewed at Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nThe first significant renewal of learning in the West came with the Carolingian Renaissance of the Early Middle Ages. Charlemagne, advised by Peter of Pisa and Alcuin of York, attracted the scholars of England and Ireland, and by decree in AD 787 established schools in every abbey in his empire. These schools, from which the name \"scholasticism\" is derived, became centres of medieval learning. During the early Scholastic period, knowledge of the Greek language had vanished in the west except in Ireland, where it was widely dispersed in the monastic schools.\n\nIrish scholars had a considerable presence in the Frankish court, where they were renowned for their learning. Among them was Johannes Scotus Eriugena, one of the founders of scholasticism. Eriugena was the most significant Irish intellectual of the early monastic period, and an outstanding philosopher in terms of originality. He had considerable familiarity with the Greek language, and translated many works into Latin, affording access to the Cappadocian Fathers and the Greek theological tradition.\n\nDuring the ninth and tenth centuries, waves of Norse warriors ransacked the countryside. The monasteries were favourite targets for their treasures of golden religious ornaments.\n\nAs the eighth century neared its close, religion and learning still flourished, but unexpected dangers approached and a new enemy came, before whose assaults monk and monastery and saint and scholar disappeared. These invaders were the Danes from the coasts of Scandinavia. Pagans and pirates, they were formidable foes both on land and sea.\n\nIn Ireland as elsewhere they attacked the monasteries and churches, desecrated the altars, carried away the gold and silver vessels, and smoking ruins and murdered monks attested the fury of their assaults. Under native and Christian chiefs churches were destroyed, church lands appropriated by laymen, monastic schools deserted, and lay abbots ruled at Armagh and elsewhere. Bishops were consecrated without sees and conferred orders for money, there was chaos in church government and corruption everywhere.\n\nIn a series of synods beginning with Ráth Breasail (1118) and including Kells (1152), at which the pope's legate presided, many salutary enactments were passed, and for the first time diocesan episcopacy was established. Meanwhile, St. Malachy, Archbishop of Armagh, had done very remarkable work in his own diocese and elsewhere. His early death in 1148 was a heavy blow to the cause of church reform. Nor could so many evils be cured in a single life, or by the labours of a single man; and in spite of his efforts and the efforts of others the decrees of synods were often flouted, and the new diocesan boundaries ignored.\n\nIn December 1154, Henry Plantagenet, Duke of Normandy and Aquitaine, by the Treaty of Wallingford and a large fleet, became in addition Henry II, King of England. In that same month an Englishman, Nicholas Breakspeare, was elected Pope Adrian IV. Henry intended, as shown by his later Constitutions of Clarendon, to establish the supremacy of the civil law and courts above the ecclesiastical law and courts. In the first full year of Henry's reign (1155) he procured the Papal Bull Laudabiliter from the Hertfordshire born Pope Adrian IV authorizing Henry to proceed to conquer Ireland \"to check the torrent of wickedness to reform evil manners, to sow the seeds of virtue\". The quid pro quo was the condition that a penny should be yearly paid from each house to the See of Rome (the still extant Peter's Pence). Henry and the Pope also had other reasons (see Henry II, section \"Lordship over Ireland\"). The invasion was put aside while Henry attended to other matters. Henry continued to battle the supreme power of the Church, and Thomas Becket in England. In 1166, Henry took the opportunity to accede to the request by displaced Irish Rí of Leinster, Diarmait Mac Murchada for assistance in regaining his Irish territory. A first contingent of the Norman Invasion of Ireland came to Ireland in 1169 under Maurice Fitzgerald, followed by a stronger force under Strongbow (Richard de Clare, 2nd Earl of Pembroke) in 1170, the year Thomas à Beckett was murdered. In 1171 Henry himself landed at Waterford and proceeded to Dublin, where he spent the winter, and received the submission of most of the Irish chiefs. This submission was outlined in the Treaty of Windsor 1175.\n\nIt was not until the end of the 17th centuries that the Crown of England gained full control of Ireland by means of a series of military campaigns in the period 1534–1691. During this period, the island was progressively colonised by English and Scottish Protestant settlers. Most of the Irish remained Roman Catholic.\n\nHenry VIII decided to destroy the power of the Anglo-Norman kings and take control of Ireland. As he did so, he put English lords in charge of confiscated land and plundered the Catholic monasteries and churches, as he had done in England. In 1536 during the Reformation, Henry arranged to be declared head of the Church in Ireland through an act of the Irish Parliament. When the Church of England was reformed under Edward VI, so too was the Church of Ireland.\n\nIn the beginning of his reign, Henry VIII was preoccupied with more pressing matters in England and on the European Continent, and therefore paid little attention to Ireland. It was not until he had reigned for a quarter of a century on the throne that he turned his attention to Ireland and then it was primarily due his conflict with the Church over his marriage to Catherine of Aragon. Then Parliament passed the Act of Supremacy, which invested Henry with spiritual jurisdiction over England and proclaimed him head of the Church of England rather than the Pope. When the proctors of the clergy refused to agree to this measure, the irate monarch deprived them of the right of voting, confiscated church lands and suppressed monasteries, in some cases shedding the blood of their inmates, in the remaining cases evicting them and making them homeless and poor.\n\nFearing Ireland's Catholicism and strategic value for her enemies, Elizabeth consolidated English power in Ireland.\n\nThe established church in Ireland underwent a period of more radical Calvinist doctrine than occurred in England. James Ussher (later Archbishop of Armagh) authored the Irish Articles, adopted in 1615. In 1634, the Irish Convocation adopted the English Thirty-Nine Articles alongside the Irish Articles. After the Restoration of 1660, it seems that the Thirty-Nine Articles took precedence; they remain the official doctrine of the Church of Ireland even after disestablishment.\n\nThe English-speaking minority mostly adhered to the Church of Ireland or to Presbyterianism, while the Irish-speaking majority remained faithful to the Latin liturgy of Roman Catholicism. From this period on, sectarian conflict became a recurrent theme in Irish history.\n\nThe first Irish translation of the New Testament was begun by Nicholas Walsh, Bishop of Ossory, who worked on it until he was murdered in 1585. The work was continued by John Kearny, his assistant, and Nehemiah Donellan, Archbishop of Tuam; it was finally completed by William O'Domhnuill (William Daniell, Archbishop of Tuam in succession to Donellan). Their work was printed in 1602. The work of translating the Old Testament was undertaken by William Bedel (1571–1642), Bishop of Kilmore, who completed his translation within the reign of Charles I, although it was not published until 1680 in a revised version by Narcissus Marsh (1638–1713), Archbishop of Dublin. William Bedell had undertaken a translation of the Book of Common Prayer in 1606. An Irish translation of the revised prayer book of 1662 was effected by John Richardson (1664–1747) and published in 1712.\n\nThe first translation of the entire Bible that was approved by the church was \"An Bíobla Naofa\", supervised by Pádraig Ó Fiannachta at Maynooth and published in 1981.\n\nThe Irish Confederate Wars resulted in much destruction of church property. Irish Catholics were severely persecuted under Oliver Cromwell, their situation only slightly improving under the Stuart kings. The land settlements in the aftermath of these wars, and the defeat of James II in 1691, reduced Irish Catholic freeholders to a fraction of their previous size. The introduction of the Penal Laws further proscribed the practise of Roman Catholicism, with many priests and bishops forced into hiding or exile. Not until the 1770s did the religious climate relax, somewhat.\n\nBefore the Stuart accession, Ireland was divided into thirty-four boroughs. In 1613, forty new boroughs were created, all of them dominated by Protestants. The consequence of this was the reduction of the Catholic majority in the Irish parliament to a minority. By the end of the seventeenth century all Catholics, representing some 85% of Ireland's population then, were banned from the Irish parliament. As a result, political power rested entirely in the hands of a British settler-colonial, and more specifically Anglican, minority while the Catholic population suffered severe political and economic privations.\n\nBy the late 18th century, many of the Anglo-Irish ruling class had come to see Ireland as their native country. A Parliamentary faction led by Henry Grattan agitated for a more favourable trading relationship with England and for greater legislative independence for the Parliament of Ireland. However, reform in Ireland stalled over the more radical proposals to enfranchise Irish Catholics. This was enabled in 1793, but Catholics could not yet enter parliament or become government officials.\n\nBy the Treaty of Limerick the Catholic soldiers of King James were pardoned, protected against forfeiture of their estates, and were free to go abroad if they chose. All Catholics might substitute an oath of allegiance for the oath of supremacy, and were to have such privileges \"as were consistent with the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy in the reign of Charles II\". King William also promised to have the Irish Parliament grant a further relaxation of the penal laws in force. This treaty, however, was soon torn to shreds, and in spite of William's appeals the Irish Parliament refused to ratify it, and embarked on fresh penal legislation. Under these new laws Catholics were excluded from Parliament, from the bench and bar, from the army and navy, from all civil offices, from the corporations, and even from the corporate towns. They could not have Catholic schools at home or attend foreign schools, or inherit landed property, or hold land under lease, or act as executors or administrators, or have arms or ammunition, or a horse worth £5. Neither could they bury their dead in Catholic ruins, or make pilgrimages to holy wells, or observe Catholic holidays. They could not intermarry with the Protestants, the clergyman assisting at such marriages being liable to death. The wife of a Catholic landlord turning Protestant got separate maintenance; the son turning Protestant got the whole estate; and the Catholic landlord having only Catholic children was obliged at death to divide his estate among his children in equal shares. All the regular clergy, as well as bishops and vicars-general should quit the kingdom. The secular clergy might remain, but must be registered, nor could they have on their churches either steeple or bell.\n\nIn 1728, the Catholics outnumbered Protestants 5 to 1. A few Catholics managed to hold their estates with the collaboration of friendly Protestants; the remainder gradually sank to the level of cottiers and day-labourers, reduced to a standard of living far below what they had been used to. Many Catholics chose to emigrate in the hopes of finding a more congenial environment.\n\nIn the Irish Parliament meanwhile a spirit of independence appeared. As the Parliament of the Pale it had been so often used for factious purposes that in 1496 Poynings' Law was passed, providing that henceforth no Irish Parliament could meet, and no law could be proposed, without the previous consent of both the Irish and English Privy Councils. Further, the English Parliament claimed the right to legislate for Ireland; and in the laws prohibiting the importation of Irish cattle (1665), and Irish woollen manufactures (1698), and that dealing with the Irish forfeited estates (1700), it asserted its supposed right.\n\nWhen one member, Molyneux, protested, the English Parliament condemned him, and ordered his book to be burned by the common hangman. Moreover, it passed an Act in 1719 expressly declaring that it had power to legislate for Ireland, taking away also the appellate jurisdiction of the Irish House of Lords. The fight made by Swift against Wood's halfpence showed that, though Molyneux was dead, his spirit lived; Lucas continued the fight, and Grattan in 1782 obtained legislative independence.\n\nIn 1778 by an Act enabling Catholics to hold all lands under lease; and in 1782 by a further Act allowing them to erect Catholic schools, with the permission of the Protestant bishop of the diocese, to own a horse worth more than £5, and to assist at Mass without being compelled to accuse the officiating priest. Nor were Catholic bishops any longer compelled to quit the kingdom, nor Catholic children specially rewarded if they turned Protestant. Not for ten years was there any further concession, and then an Act was passed allowing Catholics to erect schools without seeking Protestant permission, admitting Catholics to the Bar, and legalizing marriages between Protestants and Catholics. Much more important was the Act of 1793 giving the Catholics the Parliamentary and municipal franchise, admitting them to the universities and to military and civil offices, and removing all restrictions in regard to the tenure of land. They were still excluded from Parliament, from the inner Bar, and from a few of the higher civil and military offices.\n\nAlways in favour of religious liberty, Grattan would have swept away every vestige of the Penal code. But, in 1782, he mistakenly thought that his work was done when legislative independence was conceded. He forgot that the executive was still left independent of Parliament, answerable only to the English ministry; and that, with rotten boroughs controlled by a few great families, with an extremely limited franchise in the counties, and with pensioners and filling so many seats, the Irish Parliament was but a mockery of representation.\n\nLike Grattan, Flood and Charlemont favoured Parliamentary reform, but, unlike him, they were opposed to Catholic concessions. As for Foster and Fitzgibbon, who led the forces of corruption and bigotry, they opposed every attempt at reform, and consented to the Act of 1793 only under strong pressure from Pitt and Dundas. These English ministers, alarmed at the progress of French revolutionary principles in Ireland, fearing a foreign invasion, wished to have the Catholics contented. In 1795 further concessions seemed imminent. In that year an illiberal viceroy, Lord Westmoreland, was replaced by the liberal-minded Lord Fitzwilliam, who came understanding it to be the wish of Pitt that the Catholic claims were to be conceded. He at once dismissed from office a rapacious office-holder named Beresford, so powerful that he was called the \"King of Ireland\"; he refused to consult Lord Chancellor Fitzgibbon or Foster, the Speaker; he took Grattan and Ponsonby into his confidence, and declared his intention to support Grattan's bill admitting Catholics to Parliament. The high hopes raised by these events were dashed to the earth when Fitzwilliam was suddenly recalled, after having been allowed to go so far without any protest from Portland, the home secretary, or from the premier, Pitt. The latter, disliking the Irish Parliament because it had rejected his commercial propositions in 1785, and disagreed with him on the regency in 1789, already mediated a legislative union, and felt that the admission of Catholics to Parliament would thwart his plans. He was probably also influenced by Beresford, who had powerful friends in England, and by the king, whom Fitzgibbon had mischievously convinced that to admit Catholics to Parliament would be to violate his coronation oath. Possibly, other causes concurred with these to bring about the sudden and disastrous change which filled Catholic Ireland with grief, and the whole nation with dismay.\n\nThe new viceroy, Lord Camden, was instructed to conciliate the Catholic bishops by setting up a Catholic college for the training of Irish priests; this was done by the establishment of Maynooth College. But he was to set his face against all Parliamentary reform and all Catholic concessions. These things he did with a will. He at once restored Beresford to office and Foster and Fitzgibbon to favour, the latter being made Earl of Clare. And he stirred up but too successfully the dying embers of sectarian hate, with the result that the Ulster factions, the Protestant \"Peep-of-Day Boys\" and the Catholic \"Defenders\", became embittered with a change of names. The latter, turning to republican and revolutionary ways, joined the United Irish Society; the former became merged in the recently formed Orange Society, taking its name from William of Orange and having Protestant ascendancy and hatred of Catholicism as its battle cries. Extending from Ulster, these rival societies brought into the other provinces the curse of sectarian strife. Instead of putting down both, the Government took sides with the Orangemen; and, while their lawless acts were condoned, the Catholics were hunted down. An Arms' Act, an Insurrection Act, an Indemnity Act, a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act placed them outside the pale of law. An undisciplined soldiery, recruited from the Orange lodges, were then let loose among them. Martial law, free quarters, flogging, picketing, half-hanging, destruction of Catholic property and life, outrages on women followed, until at last Catholic blood was turned into flame. Then Wexford rose. Looking back, it now seems certain that, had Hoche landed at Bantry in 1796, had even a small force landed at Wexford in 1798, or a few other counties displayed the heroism of Wexford, English power in Ireland would, temporarily at least, have been destroyed. But one county could not fight the British Empire, and the rebellion was soon quenched in blood.\n\nCamden's place was then given to Lord Cornwallis, who came to Ireland for the express purpose of carrying a Legislative Union. Foster refused to support him and joined the opposition. Fitzgibbon, however, aided Cornwallis, and so did Castlereagh, who for some time had discharged the duties of chief secretary in the absence of Mr. Pelham, and who was now formally appointed to the office. And then began one of the most shameful chapters in Irish history. Even the corrupt Irish Parliament was reluctant to vote away its existence, and in 1799 the opposition was too strong for Castlereagh. But Pitt directed him to persevere, and the great struggle went on. On one side were eloquence and debating power, patriotism, and public virtue, Grattan, Plunket, and Bushe, Foster, Fitzgerald, Ponsonby, and Moore, a truly formidable combination. On the other side were the baser elements of in Parliament, the needy, the spendthrift, the meanly ambitious, operated upon by Castlereagh, with the whole resources of the British Empire at his command. The pensioners and placemen who voted against him at once lost their places and pensions, the military officer was refused promotion, the magistrate was turned off the bench. And while anti-Unionists were unsparingly punished, the Unionists got lavish rewards. The impecunious got well-paid sinecures; the briefless barrister was made a judge or a commissioner; the rich man, ambitious of social distinction, got a peerage, and places and pensions for his friends; and the owners of rotten boroughs to large sums for their interests. The Catholics were promised emancipation in a united Parliament, and in consequence many bishops, some clergy, and a few of the laity supported the Union, not grudging to end an assembly so bigoted and corrupt as the Irish Parliament. By these means Castlereagh triumphed, and in 1801 the United Parliament of Great Britain and Ireland opened its doors.\n\nThe next quarter of a century was a period of unrequited hope. Dr. Troy, the Archbishop of Dublin, had been a strong advocate of the Union, and had induced nine of his brother bishops to concede a veto on episcopal appointments, not uncommon in European monarchies. In return, he wanted Emancipation linked with the Union. Castlereagh was not averse; but Pitt was publicly non-committal and vague, though the Catholic Unionists had no doubt that he favoured linking concession with passage of the Union thereby creating a totally new dispensation for a United Kingdom. Disappointment ensued when nothing was done in the first session of the United Parliament, and it was increased when Pitt resigned office and was succeeded by Addington, the narrow-minded Speaker. Cornwallis, however, assured Dr. Troy that Pitt had resigned, unable to overcome the reluctance of King George III, who believed it contravened the Act of Settlement, and his coronation oath. Pitt declared that he would never again take office if emancipation were not conceded. In spite of this, he became Premier again in 1804, no longer an advocate of emancipation having pledged never again to raise the question in Parliament during the lifetime of the king. To this pledge he was as faithful as he had been false to his former assurances; when Fox presented the Catholic petition in 1805, Pitt opposed it. After 1806, when both Pitt and Fox died, the Catholic champion was Grattan, who had entered the British Parliament in 1805. In the vain hope of conciliating opponents he was willing, in 1808, to concede the veto. Dr. Troy and the higher Catholics acquiesced. The other bishops were unwilling, and rejected the offer of a state-paid clergy or state-appointed bishops. The agitation of the question, however, did not cease, and for many years it distracted Catholic plans and weakened Catholic effort. Further complications arose when, in 1814, the prefect of the Propaganda, Quarantotti, issued a rescript favouring the veto. He acted, however, beyond his powers in the absence of Pius VII, who was in France. When the Pope returned to Rome, after the fall of Napoleon, the rescript was disavowed.\n\nIn these years the Catholics badly needed a leader. John Keogh, the able leader of 1793, was then old, and Lords Fingall and Gormanstone, Mr. Scully and Dr. Dromgoole, were not the men to grapple with great difficulties and powerful opponents. An abler and more vigorous leader was required, one with less faith in petitions and protestations of loyalty. Such a leader was found in Daniel O'Connell, a Catholic barrister whose first public appearance in 1800 was on an anti-Unionist platform. A great lawyer and orator, a great debater, of boundless courage and resources, he took a prominent part on Catholic committees, and from 1810 he held the first place in Catholic esteem. Yet the Catholic cause advanced slowly, and, when Grattan died in 1820, emancipation had not come. Nor would the House of Lords accept Plunket's Bill of 1821, even though it passed the House of Commons and conceded the veto. At last O'Connell determined to rouse the masses, and in 1823, with the help of Richard Lalor Sheil, he founded the Catholic Association. Its progress at first was slow, but gradually it gathered strength. Dr. Murray, the new Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, joined it, and Dr. Doyle, the great Bishop of Kildare; other bishops followed; the clergy and people also came in; and thus rose a great national organization, supervising from its central office in Dublin subsidiary associations in every parish; maintained by a Catholic rent; watching over local and national affairs, discharging, as Mr. Canning described it, \"all the functions of a regular government, and having obtained a complete mastery and control over the masses of the Irish people\". The Association was suppressed in 1825 by Act of Parliament; but O'Connell merely changed the name; and the New Catholic Association with its New Catholic rent continued the work of agitation as of old. Nor was this all. By the Catholic Relief Act of 1793 the forty-shilling freeholders obtained the franchise. These freeholders were in the power of the landlords. Protected by a powerful association, and encouraged by the priests and by O'Connell, the freeholders broke free. In Waterford, Louth, Meath, and elsewhere they voted for the nominees of the Catholic Association at elections, and humbled the landlords. They returned O'Connell himself for Clare in 1828. The Tory ministers, Wellington and Peel, steered the passage of the Catholic Relief Bill of 1829. The forty-shilling freeholders, however, were temporarily disfranchised, and provisions excluding Catholics from some of the higher civil and military offices, prohibiting priests from wearing vestments outside their churches, bishops from assuming the titles of their sees, and clergy from obtaining charitable bequests. In other respects U.K. Roman Catholics were placed on a level with other denominations, and at last were fully admitted within to the benefits fruits of the constitution.\n\nThe Irish Catholics had several grievances still calling for redress: the established state Church, landlordism, and educational inequality. Mr. Gladstone commenced with the Church of Ireland. He introduced a Bill disendowing and disestablishing it. Commissioners were appointed to wind it up, taking charge of its property, then computed at more than £15,000,000. Of this sum, £11,000,000, was given to the disestablished Church, part to the holders of existing offices, part to enable the Church to continue its work. A further sum of nearly £1,000,000 was distributed between Maynooth College, deprived of its annual grant, and the Presbyterian Church deprived of the Regium Donum, the latter getting twice as much as the former. The surplus was to be disposed of by Parliament for such public objects as it might determine.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has had a powerful influence over the Irish state since its inception in 1922 although that influence has diminished somewhat in recent decades. The clergy's influence meant that the Irish state had very conservative social policies, banning, for example, divorce, contraception, abortion and pornography as well as encouraging the censoring of many books and films. In addition the church largely controlled the state's hospitals, schools and remained the largest provider of many other social services.\n\nWith the partition of Ireland in 1922, 92.6% of the Free State's population were Catholic while 7.4% were Protestant. By the 1960s, the Protestant population had fallen by half. Although emigration was high among all the population, due to a lack of economic opportunity, the rate of Protestant emigration was disproportionate in this period. Many Protestants left the country in the early 1920s, either because they felt unwelcome in a predominantly Catholic and nationalist state, because they were afraid due to the burning of Protestant homes (particularly of the old landed class) by republicans during the civil war, because they regarded themselves as British and did not wish to live in an independent Irish state, or because of the economic disruption caused by the recent violence. The Catholic Church had also issued a decree, known as \"Ne Temere\", whereby the children of marriages between Catholics and Protestants had to be brought up as Catholics.\n\nSince the early 1990s, the church in Ireland has been rocked by many cases of sexual abuse. Enquiries established that hundreds of priests had abused thousands of children in previous decades. In many cases, the abusing priests were moved to other parishes to avoid embarrassment or a scandal, assisted by senior clergy. By 2010 a number of in-depth judicial reports had been published, but with relatively few prosecutions.\n\nSee Roman Catholic Church sexual abuse scandal in Ireland and Magdalene asylum\n\nIn the Irish Free State, now Ireland, the church had a great influence on public opinion as it had supervised public education for about 90% of the population since at least the 1830s. Historically it was associated with the Jacobite movement until 1766, and with Irish nationalism after Catholic emancipation was secured in 1829. The church was resurgent between 1829 and the disestablishment of the Church of Ireland in 1869-71, when its most significant leaders included Bishop James Doyle, Cardinal Cullen and Archbishop MacHale. The hierarchy supported the democratic and mainly non-violent Irish Parliamentary Party in the 1880s, and its offshoots, and the policy of Irish Home Rule in 1886-1920. It did not support the Irish republican movement until 1921, as it espoused violence, in spite of support from many individual priests, and opposed the anti-Treaty side in the Irish Civil War. Despite this relative moderation, Irish Protestants were concerned that a self-governing Ireland would result in \"Rome Rule\" instead of home rule, and this became an element in the creation of Northern Ireland.\n\nMajor popular church events attended by the political world have included the Eucharistic Congress in 1932 and the Papal Visit in 1979. The last prelate with strong social and political interests was Archbishop McQuaid, who retired in 1972.\n\nAfter independence in 1922, the Church remained heavily involved in health care and education, raising money and running institutions which were staffed by Catholic religious institutes, largely because the new state remained impoverished. Its main political effect was to continue to run schools where religious education was a major element. The hierarchy opposed the free public secondary schools service introduced in 1968 by Donogh O'Malley, in part because they ran almost all such schools. Some have argued that the church's strong efforts since the 1830s to continue the control of Catholic education was primarily to guarantee a continuing source of candidates for the priesthood, as they would have years of training before entering a seminary.\n\nFrom 1930 hospitals were funded by a sweepstake (lottery) with tickets frequently distributed or sold by nuns or priests. On health matters it was seen as unsympathetic to women's needs and in 1950 it opposed the Mother and Child Scheme.\n\nIt helped reinforce public censorship and maintained its own list of banned literature which influenced the State's list. Divorce allowing remarriage was banned in 1924 (though it had been rare), and selling artificial contraception was made illegal. The Church's influence slipped somewhat after 1970, impacted partly by the media and the growing feminist movement. For instance the Health (Family Planning) Act, 1979 showed the ability of the Catholic Church to force the government into a compromise situation over artificial contraception, though unable to get the result it wanted; contraception could now be bought, but only with a prescription from a doctor and supplied only by registered chemists. In the 1983 Amendment to the constitution introduced the constitutional prohibition of abortion, which the Church supported, though abortion for social reasons remains illegal under Irish statute law. However the Church failed to influence the June, 1996, removal of the constitutional prohibition of divorce. While the church had opposed divorce allowing remarriage in civil law, its canon law allowed for a law of nullity and a limited divorce \"a mensa et thoro\"\", effectively a form of marital separation. In a further repudiation of the church's teaching, on May 22, 2015, 62% of Irish voters approved the legalization of same sex marriage in Ireland.\n\nThe Government of Ireland Act of 1920 acted as the constitution of Northern Ireland, in which was enshrined freedom of religion for all of Northern Ireland's citizens. Here Roman Catholics formed a minority of some 35% of the population, which had mostly supported Irish nationalism and was therefore historically opposed to the creation of Northern Ireland.\n\nThe Roman Catholic schools' council was at first resistant in accepting the role of the government of Northern Ireland, and initially accepted funding only from the government of the Irish Free State and admitting no school inspectors. Thus it was that the Lynn Committee presented a report to the government, from which an Education Bill was created to update the education system in Northern Ireland, without any co-operation from the Roman Catholic section in education. Instead, in regard to the Roman Catholic schools, the report relied on the guidance of a Roman Catholic who was to become the Permanent Secretary to the Minister of Education — A. N. Bonaparte Wyse.\n\nMany commentators have suggested that the separate education systems in Northern Ireland after 1921 prolonged the sectarian divisions in that community. Cases of gerrymandering and preference in public services for non-Catholics led on to the need for a Civil Rights movement in 1967.\n\nIn both parts of Ireland Church policy and practice changed markedly after the Vatican II reforms of 1962. Probably the largest change was that Mass could be said in vernacular languages and not in Latin, and in 1981 the Church commissioned its first edition of the Bible in Irish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5233720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5233720", "title": "Hyphen (magazine)", "text": "Hyphen (magazine)\n\nHyphen is an American print and online magazine, founded in 2002 by a group of San Francisco Bay Area journalists, activists, and artists including Melissa Hung, a former reporter for the \"Houston Press\" and \"East Bay Express\"; Claire Light, former executive director at Kearny Street Workshop; Yuki Tessitore, of \"Mother Jones; \"Mia Nakano, photojournalist, filmmaker Jennifer Huang, and Stefanie Liang, a graphic designer from \"Red Herring magazine\". Its advisory board includes notable Asian American journalists such as Helen Zia and Nguyen Qui Duc, the host of \"Pacific Time\". The first issue was released in June 2003. \"Hyphen\" is one of several Asian American media ventures created in the wake of \"A Magazine\"'s demise.\n\nShortly after its release, the publication was sharply criticized by \"AsianWeek\" columnist Emil Guillermo who theorized that \"Hyphen\"'s young editors were arrogant, ashamed of their Asian heritage, and disrespectful of existing ethnic media in his weekly column. He later said that he had not actually read the magazine.\n\nThe magazine's first issue contained a story package on the history of Asian American community activism. Its content is decidedly to the left, feminist, and non-mainstream. Its coverage includes politics, arts, and pop culture.\n\nIn 2004, the magazine was nominated for an Utne Independent Press Award for Best New Title. In January 2006, \"Hyphen\"'s Body Issue won the Independent Press Association's Best Cover award for an image of an Asian American man, Yusuke Miyashita, partially submerged in a bathtub full of edamame.\nMr. Hyphen, a pageant created by the magazine to showcase more positive images of Asian American men, debuted in May 2006. In the fall of 2007, the magazine received its second nomination for an Utne Independent Press Award, this time for Best Design.\n\nStarted in 2007, Hyphen Magazine partnered with The Asian American Writers' Workshop to start a short story contest called the Hyphen Asian American Short Story Contest, the only national, pan-Asian American writing competition of its kind. Previous winners include Preeta Samarasan, Sunil Yapa, Shivani Manghnani, and Timothy Tau. Previous judges include Porochista Khakpour, Yiyun Li, Alexander Chee, Jaed Coffin, Brian Leung, Monique Truong and Monica Ferrell.\n\nOn May 5, 2010, \"Hyphen\" and the Asian American Action Fund announced a cross-posting partnership.\n\n"}
{"id": "58103413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58103413", "title": "I'm a Scientist, Get me out of here!", "text": "I'm a Scientist, Get me out of here!\n\nI'm a Scientist, Get me out of here! is an online science enrichment activity that runs three times a year in the UK. School students spend two weeks interacting with scientists in text-based live chats. At the end of the event the school students vote for their favourite scientist and the winner is awarded £500 to support further science communication.\n\nPilots for \"I'm a Scientist, Get me out of here\" began in 2008, and were well received by school students and teachers. It was founded by Shane McCracken of Gallomanor Communications. The activity is divided into several zones, which focus on either general science or a specific industry. The funding for each zone is provided by an associated learned society, organisation or industry. The competition format is similar to The X Factor, and school students vote for the winner based on answers they receive to their questions submitted online and in live, text-based chats with the scientists. Participating scientists are given an opportunity to develop their communication skills whilst school students and teachers benefit from contact time with a real-life, practising scientist. The competition is also run for engineers, geoscientists, medics and astronauts.\n\nThe activity takes place annually in the UK, Ireland, Spain, Kenya, and Vietnam. It has also run in previous years in the United States, Malaysia and Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16810875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16810875", "title": "International Review of Social History", "text": "International Review of Social History\n\nThe International Review of Social History (IRSH) is a scholarly journal founded, in its current format, in 1956, by the International Institute of Social History (IISH). The current academic journal revived an earlier publication by the same name issued by IISH from 1936 until its termination due to the approach of World War II in 1938.\n\nIn 1936 the International Institute of Social History established its first publication, the \"International Review for Social History\" (IRSH). This publication was joined by another, the \"Bulletin of the International Review of Social History,\" in 1937. Although both were interrupted by World War II, with the first iteration of the IRSH terminated in 1938, some ten volumes were published under that name, ending in 1955.\n\nThe prewar \"International Review for Social History\" was a multilingual publication, including material published in English, German, Dutch, and French.\n\nAn revived postwar \"International Review of Social History\" (IRSH) was launched in 1956. The IRSH publishes academic articles that focus on research into social and labor history from a transnational perspective, accepting articles from both the modern and the early modern periods. It is well regarded by professional international social and labour historians as a journal which publishes authoritative papers on the discipline.\n\nThe journal publishes 4 issues per year, one of which is always a special issue collecting together articles on a given theme, edited by a guest editor. The current executive editor is Aad Blok, of the International Institute of Social History. The IRSH is published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of the IISG.\n\n"}
{"id": "1965420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1965420", "title": "Jacques Corriveau", "text": "Jacques Corriveau\n\nJacques Corriveau ( 1933 – 23 June 2018) was a Quebec businessperson, owner of the graphic design firm Pluri Design Canada Inc, a long-time Liberal Party of Canada organizer, and convicted criminal.\n\nCorriveau was known for having a very close relationship with once Prime Minister of Canada Jean Chrétien. He first met Chrétien in 1976 and was a participant in Chrétien's failed 1984 bid for Liberal Party leadership. On Chrétien's second bid in 1990, Corriveau was campaign organizer. \n\nThrough Pluri Design, Corriveau was the designer of several pavilions at the 1967 Montreal Expo as well as the athletes' village for the 1976 Summer Olympics. The firm also obtained several major printing contracts for Liberal elections posters for the 1993, 1997, and 2000 federal elections. \n\nThe Gomery inquiry has found that Pluri Design made a little less than $9 million from sponsorship related contracts. As well, he personally earned roughly $0.5 million as a subcontractor for Groupaction.\n\nIn December 2013, Corriveau was charged under the Criminal Code with fraud against the government, forgery, and laundering proceeds of crime. He was subsequently convicted and sentenced to a four-year prison term. He died on June 23, 2018, while his sentence was being appealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2891230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2891230", "title": "Kingdom of Arles", "text": "Kingdom of Arles\n\nThe Kingdom of Arles (also Kingdom of Arelat or Second Kingdom of Burgundy) was a Frankish dominion established from lands of the early medieval Kingdom of the Burgundians in 933 by the merger of the kingdoms of Upper and Lower Burgundy under King Rudolf II (located in modern southeastern France).\n\nThe new kingdom was named after the Lower Burgundian residence at Arles. Its territory stretched from the Mediterranean Sea to the High Rhine River in the north, roughly corresponding to the present-day French regions of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, Rhône-Alpes and Franche-Comté, as well as western Switzerland. It was ruled by independent kings until 1032, after which it was incorporated into the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nSince the conquest of the First Burgundian kingdom by the Franks in 534, its territory had been ruled within the Frankish and Carolingian Empire. In 843, the three surviving sons of Emperor Louis the Pious, who had died in 840, signed the Treaty of Verdun which partitioned the Carolingian Empire between them: the former Burgundian kingdom became part of Middle Francia, which was allotted to Emperor Lothair I (\"Lotharii Regnum\"), with the exception of the later Duchy of Burgundy—the present-day \"Bourgogne\"—which went to Charles the Bald, king of West Francia. King Louis the German received East Francia, comprising the territory east of the Rhine River.\n\nShortly before his death in 855, Emperor Lothair I in turn divided his realm between his three sons in accordance with the Treaty of Prüm. His Burgundian heritage would pass to his younger son Charles of Provence (845–863). Then in 869 Lothair I's son, Lothair II, died without legitimate children, and in 870 his uncle Charles the Bald and Louis the German by the 870 Treaty of Meerssen partitoned his territory: Upper Burgundy, territory north of the Jura mountains (\"Bourgogne Transjurane\"), went to Louis the German, while the rest went to Charles the Bald. By 875 all sons of Lothair I had died without heirs and the other Burgundian territories were held by Charles the Bald.\nIn the confusion after the death of Charles' son Louis the Stammerer in 879, the West Frankish count Boso of Provence established the Kingdom of Lower Burgundy (\"Bourgogne Cisjurane\") at Arles. In 888, upon the death of the Emperor Charles the Fat, son of Louis the German, Count Rudolph of Auxerre, Count of Burgundy, founded the Kingdom of Upper Burgundy at Saint-Maurice which included the County of Burgundy, in northwestern Upper Burgundy.\n\nIn 933, Hugh of Arles ceded Lower Burgundy to Rudolph II of Upper Burgundy in return for Rudolph relinquishing his claim to the Italian throne. Rudolph merged both Upper and Lower Burgundy to form the Kingdom of Arles (\"Arelat\"). In 937, Rudolph was succeeded by his son Conrad the Peaceful. Inheritance claims by Hugh of Arles were rejected, with the support of Emperor Otto I.\n\nIn 993, Conrad was succeeded by his son Rudolph III, who in 1006 was forced to sign a succession treaty in favor of the future Emperor Henry II. Rudolph attempted to renounce the treaty in 1016 without success.\n\nIn 1032, Rudolph III died without any surviving heirs, and the kingdom passed in accordance with the 1006 treaty to Henry's successor, Emperor Conrad II from the Salian dynasty, and Arelat was incorporated in the Holy Roman Empire, though the kingdom operated with considerable autonomy. Though from that time the Emperors held the title \"King of Arles\", few went to be crowned in the cathedral of Arles. An exception was Emperor Frederick Barbarossa who in 1178 was crowned King of Burgundy by the Archbishop of Arles.\n\nBetween the 11th century and the end of the 14th century, several parts of Arelat's territory broke away: Provence, Vivarais, Lyonnais, Dauphiné, Savoy, the Free County of Burgundy, and parts of western Switzerland. The Free County of Burgundy was acquired by the Imperial House of Hohenstaufen in 1190 and the eastern parts of Upper Burgundy fell to the House of Zähringen. Later, when the Zähringen line died out, these lands were inherited by the Habsburgs. Most of the territory of Lower Burgundy was progressively incorporated into France—the County of Provence fell to the House of Anjou in 1246 and finally to the French crown in 1481, the Dauphiné was annexed and sold to the French king Charles V of Valois in 1349 by the dauphin de Viennois Humbert II de La Tour-du-Pin. In 1361, Emperor Charles IV of Luxembourg detached the County of Savoy from the Burgundian kingdom.\n\nIn 1365, Charles was the last emperor to be crowned King of Arles. In 1378, Charles appointed the Dauphin of France (later King Charles VI of France) as permanent Imperial vicar to administer nominally on behalf of the Empire what remained of Arelat, and from then on Arelat in effect ceased to exist. However, the title \"King of Arles\" remained one of the Holy Roman Emperor's subsidiary titles until the dissolution of the Empire in 1806, and the office of the Archbishop of Trier continued to act as an archchancellor and prince-elector for the King of the Romans (the designated future Holy Roman Emperor), a status that was confirmed by the Golden Bull of 1356.\n\nDespite the title's permanent union with that of King of the Romans, the Arelat was considered for reconstitution as a separate state several times. The most serious occasion was under Pope Nicholas III and sponsored by Charles of Anjou. Between 1277 and 1279, Charles, at that time already King of Naples, Rudolf of Habsburg, King of the Romans and aspirant to the Imperial crown, and Margaret of Provence, Queen-Mother of France, settled their dispute over the County of Provence, and also over Rudolf's bid to become the sole Imperial candidate. Rudolf agreed that his daughter Clemence of Austria would marry Charles's grandson Charles Martel of Anjou, with the whole Arelat as her dowry. In exchange, Charles would support the imperial crown being made hereditary in the House of Habsburg. Pope Nicholas expected Northern Italy to become a kingdom carved out of the Imperial territory and be given to his family, the Orsini. In 1282, Charles was ready to send the child couple to reclaim the old royal title of Kings of Arles, but the War of the Sicilian Vespers frustrated his plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8357688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8357688", "title": "List of social nudity places in Europe", "text": "List of social nudity places in Europe\n\nThis list of social nudity places in Europe is a list of places where social nudity is practised for recreation in Europe. It includes free beaches (or clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches) and some resorts.\n\n\nIn Vienna the following beaches can be found\n\n\nTopfree sunbathing is tolerated on all beaches.\n\nUnlike the former East Germany, but like many other countries that were part of the Communist bloc Bulgaria's nudists were kept cordoned off behind tall fences. There are however a number beaches on the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast where nudism is practised; there are no official nude beaches. People always enter naked in public baths, but those are separate for men and women.\n\n\n \nCroatia has a well developed naturist culture with camp sites and hotels specifically catering for naturists. Naturism has been popular in Croatia ever since the future King Edward VIII and his then-mistress, Wallis Simpson, were allowed to swim nude at one of Rab's beaches in 1936. Toplessness is permitted on most beaches.\n\nOn the Istria peninsula the following nude beaches and resorts can be found:\n\n\nIn the Kvarner gulf the following nude beaches and resorts can be found:\n\n\nIn Dalmatia gulf the following nude beaches and resorts can be found:\n\n\n\nThere are no legal nudist beaches in Cyprus. A number of beaches, including the beach at Avdimou, have signs warning that nudism is not permitted. A community leader of Pissouri said that for decades there has been an \"unspoken understanding\" whereby nudism would be tolerated at an area away from the main beach at Pissouri, but not on the beach of Pissouri Bay. According to the community leader, nudists may visit the area which is on the eastern side of the bay, beyond the cliffs, as it offers some privacy.\n\nTopfree is tolerated on all places. Public nudity is not illegal in the Czech Republic, but it may be regulated by local authorities.\n\nSince 1976 it is permissible to be nude at any beach in Denmark. There are more than of coastline to choose from. A large number of clothing-optional beaches exist throughout the country.\n\nThe beach at the village of Husby in the Holstebro Municipality is being promoted as a FKK beach.\n\nNaturist swims are held in the Blovstrød (Allerød Municipality) indoor swimming pool on Friday evenings in Autumn.\n\nEstonian naturist beaches used to be overseen by the NGO Estnat (which closed in 2012). No tickets are necessary.\n\n\n\n\nNaturist venues in Alsace.\n\n\nNaturist venues in Aquitaine.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCorsica is the fifth most popular naturist destination in France.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following are nudist venues in the Languedoc-Roussillon region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPublic nudity is not illegal in Germany but may be regulated by local authorities mostly because of safety and health issues, not morality. Apart from urban areas and public baths (some of which offer nude swimming days), nude bathing is common in Germany: unofficial clothing optional areas exist at most lakes and rivers and other sites, such as abandoned sand and rock quarries. Many designated \"Freikörperkultur\" (FKK – Free Body Culture) areas exist at the seaside, at lakes and in baths, especially in the former East Germany, where nudism remains more widespread than in the west. Many unregulated clothing optional (FKK) free beaches are available along the Nordsee and Baltic seashores, Rügen and other islands. The attitude is: all beaches are nude beaches until somebody complains. Families especially like to spend their leisure time in naturist areas; sauna bathing is generally practiced in the nude.\n\nThe list of social nudity places in Germany includes:\n\n\nNaturism is practised widely in the Greek Islands although, strictly speaking, legal only in a relatively few designated locations but almost on all islands there are unofficial nudist beaches. Topfree is tolerated on almost all beaches.\n\nBeaches and resorts in Crete include:\n\n\n\n\nPublic nudity is not common, but occasionally practised, since there are natural thermal pools in remote areas. An example is Hellulaug geothermal pool in Vatnsfjörður fjord in the Westfjords of Iceland. Hellulaug pool is a geothermal pool which is located right by the beach. It is lovely sitting there with the view of the ocean and Vatnsfjörður fjord. Hellulaug cannot be seen from the road, but there is a parking lot above the pool and a good path down to the ocean. The pool is deep and the temperature of the water is about . The geothermal water comes from a borehole above the pool.\n\n\n\n\nBeautiful beach with clear and clean water, protected by a rock wall in which there's a recess with natural shade.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany beaches in Sicily are topless, and there are also naturist beaches.\n\n\n\nLatvian naturist beaches are overseen by the \"Latvian Naturist Association\".\n\n\nNaturist beaches in Lithuania are overseen by local communities.\n\n\n\n\nPublic saunas in the Netherlands are always mixed gender and nudity is the norm when using these. In the Netherlands tanning top free is legal on almost all beaches. Municipalities with a beach (usually including quiet parts) tend to have a nudist beach; even if the municipality does not like it, it designates a quiet part as such in order to be able to forbid nudity on the rest of the beach.\n\nA pretty complete list of nude beaches in the Netherlands can be found on the Dutch language website naaktstrandje.nl. Here you can click on the province of your choice and get a list of beaches and other nudist activities.\n\n\n\n\nNudist beaches are at Neptun, Costineşti, 2 Mai and Vama Veche sea resorts, and the beach between Eforie Nord and Eforie Sud on the Black Sea. Also on Sulina and Sfântu Gheorghe, Tulcea (Danube Delta) there are a few wild beaches used for nudism.\n\nToplessness is tolerated on all Romanian beaches .\n\n\nBelgrade has several nudist beaches, including:\n\n\n\nPublic nudity on the beach is, in general, not illegal in Spain, however some local municipalities do outlaw nudity on beaches that are within city limits. The city of Cadiz is one example.\n\nFor nudity lovers, Spain offers various options for nude sunbathing. In addition to the long sandy beaches in the vicinity of large cities, topless sunbathing is possible on all beaches, even in front of smaller villages.\n\nFollowing a request by the Association for the Development of Naturism (ADN) an email was sent by the city of Madrid's sports department to the 21 district heads explaining that municipal pools, if they see fit, have authorization to organize a \"Bathing Suit-Free Day\", or an \"Optional Bathing Suit Day\", some time in the 2016 summer.\n\n\nThere are hundreds of public nudist beaches in mainland Spain, all over the coast line, and some more inland. This is only a selection:\n\nAlthough nudism is not illegal, it is preferable to practice it on beaches meant for that specific purpose. This is a list of nudist beaches\n\n\nPublic nudity is generally legal in the entire country with the notable exception of the canton Appenzell Innerrhoden where public nudity, including naked hiking, carries a fine of up to 200 Swiss Francs. Nude hiking is mainly popular in the sparsely populated alpine regions among nudists, less so in the low lands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMale and female toplessness tolerated on most beaches. The following are beaches where naturism is practised.\n\n"}
{"id": "28711145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28711145", "title": "Mahmud Karzai", "text": "Mahmud Karzai\n\nMahmood Karzai, also spelled Mahmud Karzai, or Mahmoud Karzai, is an Afghan businessman, CEO and Chairman of the Board for the Afghan Investment Company who is closely tied to the Kabul Bank scandal and other controversies. He is the brother of Ahmed Wali Karzai a figure who was killed by his bodyguard in Afghanistan following various allegations surrounding narcotics, nepotism, corruption and family infighting. He is also the elder brother of the former president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai.\n\nIn October 2010, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Karzai could soon be indicted for tax evasion in the U.S., by the Internal Revenue Service though he is aware of the investigation, telling the newspaper: \"I'm giving any charges\", and insisting his only interest is \"rebuilding Afghanistan.\" To date, no charges have been brought against Karzai.\n\nIn 2011, investigative reporters reported that Karzai was under review by a U.S. grand jury for alleged racketeering, extortion and tax evasion. He reportedly hired a Washington, D.C.-based criminal defense attorney as a result of the grand jury investigation.\n\nIn 2013, Karzai, who has resided in Afghanistan since 2002, renounced his American citizenship to assume a bigger role in Afghan politics. The move was perceived as Mahmood expressing interest in running in the 2014 Presidential Election.\n\nMahmud Karzai is closely connected to the Kabul Bank scandal and former U.S. Congressman Donald L. Ritter, a conservative, Jewish-American, Republican from Pennsylvania, widely criticized and scrutinized for supporting big business interests allegedly involved with serious environmental degradation, toxic waste, pollution and global warming. Ritter and Mahumud Karzai, closely associated on various controversial efforts and ventures, have been criticized by many policy experts, including investigative reporter Sibel Edmonds, \"The Boiling Frogs Post\" newspaper, and other national security experts and whistle blowers, including the National Security Whistleblowers Coalition (NSWBC), for various alleged scandals and controversies. Mahmud Karzai is also the brother of the controversial and assassinated figure Ahmed Wali Karzai who was allegedly killed by one of his bodyguards.\n\nDemocratic and Republican members of the U.S. Congress, who have supported U.S. efforts to assist Afghanistan, including Dana Rohrabacher, have raised serious concerns and issues about Mahood Karzai's role in Afghanistan with Hamid Karzai and others.\n\nMahmood Karzai is a shareholder in Kabul Bank, owning 20,548 shares, which represents 7.41% of the bank.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and other investigative newspapers reported about the Kabul Bank scandal and Mahmood Karzai's role including the freezing of the Bank's assets in 2010.\n\nDuring the September 2010 run on the bank Mahmood Karzai reportedly told the \"Boston Globe\" that \"America should do something.\"\n\nKarzai previously owned the only Toyota dealership in Afghanistan, Afghan Auto Limited.\n\nMahmood Karzai is a partner in Afco International company, the developer of Aynomena in Kandahar, Afghanistan.\n\nKarzai allegedly owned, or leased, the only cement factory in Afghanistan, the Ghori Cement Factory, which investigative news reporters have found to have a host of troubling issues involving alleged corruption, cronyism, insider dealings involving the Kabul Bank scandal, unsafe working conditions and very low wages ($3 per day in 2010).\n\nIndependent news reporters have raised serious questions about the link between Mahood Karzai and his elder brother, President Hamid Karzai, especially as they relate to the cement factory scandal and alleged questionable ties between Karzai family, and public, finances.\nReports about Mahmood Karzai, his brother Ahmed Wali Karzai, and increased reports of problems with corruption in Afghanistan surrounding President Hamid Karzai's government persist.\n\nKarzai owns numerous American companies under the name \"Helmand\", and finances realty companies from Massachusetts to Virginia.\n\nAn alleged bitter Karzai family business dispute between Mahmoud Karzai and his brother, Shah Wali Karzai, reportedly centered around a large property and housing complex project in Kandahar, Afghanistan.\n"}
{"id": "31306425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31306425", "title": "Nenana Ice Classic", "text": "Nenana Ice Classic\n\nThe Nenana Ice Classic is an annual ice pool contest held in Nenana, Alaska. It is a fundraising event in which individuals attempt to guess the exact time the Tanana River ice will break up at Nenana. Tickets are on sale from February 1 through April 5 of each year throughout Alaska. The Nenana Ice Classic is a non-profit charitable gaming organization. As such, the proceeds benefit many volunteer and non-profit organizations.\n\nThe Ice Classic began as an ice betting pool in 1906 with six entries: Adolph Nelson, Jim Duke, Gunnysack Jack, Jonesy, Louis and Joe Johnson, and the first winner, Oliver Lee. After coming the closest to betting on breakup of the Tanana ice, Lee won an equivalent amount of \"a couple of rounds at the trading post bar.\" The ice pool subsequently became inactive until 1916. In that year, railroad workers revived the betting through ticket sales at Jimmy Duke's Roadhouse, but limited the betting to Nenana residents. After word of the lottery spread to towns along the local railroad by Alaska Railroad Commission workers, the lottery was opened up to residents of the Alaska and Yukon territories in 1917.\n\nIn 1917, railroad engineers bet $801 on when the ice would break. In 2009 the 93rd annual prize money was $283,723. In 2014 the jackpot was a record $363,627. Since the Classic's beginning in 1906 over 10 million dollars in prize money has been given away.\n\nThe \"tripod\", which actually has four supports, is planted on the river ice between the highway and railroad bridges in Nenana, 300 ft from the shore. The tripod is connected to a clock which stops as the ice goes out, moving the tripod with it. The Nenana Ice Classic annual festival is the time that the tripod is erected on the ice of the frozen Tanana River. The tripod parts are built and painted prior to the festival sourcing local timber and enlisting community members. Using a chainsaw, a trough is carved into the river ice which is usually around three feet thick at that time of year. The base of the tripod is lowered into the trough. An auger is implemented to bore a hole further into the ice until the river water is released, flooding the trough. This will freeze the tripod securely to the frozen river. As a high point during the festival the community gathers together and using ropes attached to the tripod uprights they work together to lift the uprights into place. The uprights are then secured to each other. A line is attached to the top of the tripod and once that end is anchored the other end is taken to the Ice Classic tower nearby on the banks of the river. Attached there to the clock inside the tower, when the ice goes out and moves the tripod 100 feet the line breaks and stops the clock. \n\nThe Tanana River at Nenana usually freezes between October and November, reaching an average peak thickness of on April 1. The ice then melts on top due to weather and bottom due to water movement.\n\nIce measurements from 1989 through April 5, 2012 \n"}
{"id": "53654259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53654259", "title": "Overseas trained doctors in Australia", "text": "Overseas trained doctors in Australia\n\nOverseas trained doctors in Australia (OTDs) are medical practitioners who completed their core medical training overseas. Historically, from time to time there has been a shortage of qualified medical practitioners in Australia, especially in rural Australia, and the Australian Government has at times encouraged immigration for such graduates to Australia.\n\nAustralia has welcomed and continues to rely on a considerable number of doctors from overseas, with the largest numbers from the UK, India, Malaysia, China and New Zealand. The number of overseas born doctors in Australia has increased in recent years (though not all are overseas trained). In 2011, more than half of GPs (56%) and just under half of specialists (47%) were born overseas, up from 46% and 37% respectively in 2001. In comparison, less than a third (28%) of the total employed population of Australia in 2011 were born overseas.\n\nInternational medical graduates who wish to be licensed in Australia must apply to the Australian Medical Council (AMC) to arrange an appropriate assessment pathway. The standard pathway involves an IMG sitting a series of assessments, including an AMC Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) Exam and an AMC clinical exam. AMC MCQ Exam consists of 150 MCQs organized through computer adaptive scoring.\n\nFor AMC clinical exam, a candidate is required to pass 12 out of 16 cases including one compulsory case in each of Gynecology and pediatrics.\n\nThose OTDs who have passed the necessary exams and obtained AMC certification can then apply to an Australian specialty training positions.\n\nAustralia is in the process of establishing a national registration process for all the doctors under Medical Board of Australia.\n\nIn 2010 the Minister for Health and Ageing (Australia) launched an Inquiry process into registration and accreditation processes for international medical graduates which reported in 2012. Recommendations included measures around procedural fairness, transparency and efficiency in recognising OTDs especially for specialist training and qualification.\n\nAustralia has a restricted Immigration Policy since the 1950s, where potential immigrants are assessed based on a number of characteristics, including education and profession. Immigration was restricted often to whites through the White Australia Policy, and with the end of the White Australia Policy after about 1966 to 1973 many of the modern first non-white immigrants (from India for example) were overseas trained doctors.\n\nWhile Medical Practitioners have often been encouraged to immigrate, there has been resistance in some quarters despite a continued rural shortage.\n\nThe Australian Medical Association recognised the importance of OTDs, however highlighted the need to train doctors locally.\n\nIn 2016 Skilled migration lists were updated to remove 41 medical fields of expertise, in an effort to restrict immigration of OTDs. However, as of 2017, 33 medical fields of expertise remain on the list, with 9 flagged for removal\n\nWhile some argue it is harder to qualify as an overseas trained doctor than as a locally trained doctor in Australia, despite the stringent processes, there is a perception that OTDs and non-white doctors in particular face discrimination.\n\nWhile base medical practice licensing is one hurdle, speciality recognition has proven considerably more difficult for some OTDs. In one case, the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine was criticised for passing only 6.8% of non-white applicants whereas 88% of white caucasians passed. In 2017 the college initiated an inquiry chaired by Dr Helen Szoke\n\nA study showed that OTDs attracted 24% more complaints and 41% more adverse findings than non-OTDs in Australia, with the study acknowledging that complaints leading to adverse findings were not always an objective measure of deficient practices.\n\nA number of high-profile cases involving OTDs include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12981566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12981566", "title": "Pattusali", "text": "Pattusali\n\nPattusali (also spelt as Pattu Sale, Pattushali, Pata Sali & Patha Sali) is a Hindu community predominantly residing in the Indian states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka and Gujarat. \n\nThey wear the sacred thread, follow Hinduism and are mainly Vaishnavas, though there is a significant proportion of Shaivas as well.\n\nThese people have migrated from Saurashtra in Gujarat and specialise in weaving silk used to decorate and worship gods with silk cloth known as \"Pattu\" in Tamil, hence the name \"Pattusali\" in Telugu and \"Patnūlkarar\" in Tamil and are collectively called Saurashtra people.\n\nThese people are found largely in the state of Andhra Pradesh particularly in Anantapur, Godavari, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vijayanagaram districts.\n\nTraditionally, Pattusalis as the name suggests are confined to weave only silk and other finer quality of yarn, where as Padmashalis weave only coarse cloths from cotton, they are often confused with Padmashali while there is no direct connection between their origin or cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "267824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267824", "title": "Public service announcement", "text": "Public service announcement\n\nA public service announcement (PSA), or public service ad , is a message in the public interest disseminated without charge, with the objective of raising awareness, changing public attitudes and behavior towards a social issue. In the UK, they are generally called 'public information films' (PIFs); in Hong Kong, they are known as 'announcements in the public interest' ('APIs').\n\nThe earliest public service announcements (in the form of moving pictures) were made before and during the Second World War years in both the UK and the US.\n\nIn the UK, amateur actor Richard Massingham set up Public Relationship Films Ltd in 1938 as a specialist agency for producing short educational films for the public. In the films, he typically played a bumbling character who was slightly more stupid than average, and often explained the message of the film through demonstrating the risks if it was ignored. The films covered topics such as how to cross the road, how to prevent the spread of diseases, how to swim and how to drive without causing the road to be unsafe for other users. During the war, he was commissioned by the Ministry of Information to produce films for the war effort. Massingham began to produce longer films, for both private companies and the Government, after the War.\n\nIn the US, the Ad Council (initially called the War Advertising Council) was set up in 1941, when America entered World War II. It began implementing on a massive scale the idea of using advertising to influence American society on a range of fronts. Its first campaigns focused on the country's needs during World War II, such as encouraging the American public to invest their savings in government bonds.\n\nAfter the war, PSAs were used to educate the public on a broader range of important issues. In the UK, they were produced for the Central Office of Information (COI), and again by private contractors, which were usually small film companies, such as Richard Taylor Cartoons. They were supplied to broadcasters free of charge for them to use whenever they wished. Their usefulness as a cost-free means to fill the gaps in fixed-duration commercial breaks left by unsold advertising airtime led to their being used regularly and extensively in the 60s, 70s and much of the 80s, and consequently, within both the COI and broadcasting companies, they were typically known as \"fillers\". They are still being produced, although the vastly reduced need for broadcasters to turn to third-party filler material to deal with unused airtime during breaks or junctions means they are now only seen rarely. \n\nIn the US, the Ad Council expanded its focus to address issues such as forest fires, blood donations and highway safety.\n\nThe most common topics of PSAs are health and safety, such as the multimedia \"Emergency Preparedness & Safety Tips On Air and Online\" (talk radio/blog) campaign. A typical PSA is part of a public awareness campaign to inform or educate the public about an issue such as obesity or compulsive gambling. The range of possible topics has expanded over time.\n\nFrom time to time a charitable organization enlists the support of a celebrity for a PSA; examples include actress Kathryn Erbe telling people to be green and Crips gang leader Stanley Williams speaking from prison to urge youth not to join gangs. Some PSAs tell people to adopt animals instead of buying them. Protecting our Earth, also known as being green, is another example of a current PSA topic.\n\nSome television shows featuring very special episodes made PSAs after the episodes. For example, \"\" talked about child abduction in one episode, so it had a PSA about child abduction. Another example is when the original \"Law & Order\" did an episode about drunk driving, which had a PSA about drunk driving.\n\nOne of the earliest television public service announcements came in the form of Smokey Bear.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a large number of American cartoon shows contained PSAs at the end of their shows. These may or may not have been relevant to the episode itself. Three of the most widely known are the closing moral segments at the end of \"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe\", the \"Knowing is Half the Battle\" epilogues in \"\" and the \"Sonic Sez\" segments from \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\".\n\nSome television PSAs have topics such as on not watching so much television, or not taking fictional stories literally; or about television, movie, or video game ratings. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, environmental–political issues became popular, such as the \"Turtle Tips\" or \"Planeteer Alert\".\n\nPublic service advertising has become a significant force in changing public attitudes on topics such as drinking and driving, crime abatement and various health/safety issues. While stations have never been mandated by the FCC to use a prescribed number of PSAs, they are required to prove they broadcast in the public interest and PSAs are one of the ways they meet that requirement as part of serving as a \"public trustee.\" Many television affiliates and cable networks employ PSA directors who review all the PSAs provided by nonprofit organizations and choose which ones to schedule.\n\nPublic Information Films produced by the Britain's COI covered a wide range of subjects, most related to safety, but also on other subjects, including animal cruelty, environment, crime prevention and voting.\n\nAdvertisements produced by companies and private groups, such as the NSPCC's \"Cartoon Boy\", and British Gas' commercials about gas leaks are considered by fans as a form of non-Governmental PIFs.\n\nChina's first PSAs in 1986 were about saving water and were broadcast on Guiyang television. In Hong Kong, terrestrial television networks have been required since National Day 2004 to preface their main evening news broadcasts with a minute-long announcement in the public interest which plays the Chinese National Anthem in Mandarin over various patriotic montages.\n\nIAA Responsibility Awards is an annual international festival of public service announcements, held by the \"International Advertising Association\" since 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5387416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5387416", "title": "Raisani", "text": "Raisani\n\nRaisani is a Brahvi tribe that resides in Brahvistan. They speak the Brahui language. \nThe Raisani tribal chief is called the Chief of Sarawan. The present Chief of Sarawan is Nawab Muhammad Aslam Khan Raisani. The principal sections into which the tribe is divided are the Anarizai Ráhusainzai, Rustamzai, Sirajzai, Sahizai and Jamalzai. Each section is named after brothers and sons of the tribe's founding members.\n\nsiraj raisani is dead in mastung blast"}
{"id": "12226864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12226864", "title": "Reverb (non-profit)", "text": "Reverb (non-profit)\n\nReverb is a non-profit environmental organization that aims to educate and engage musicians and their fans to promote environmental sustainability. It was founded by environmentalist Lauren Sullivan and her musician husband, Guster guitarist/vocalist Adam Gardner.\n\nThe organization's services include carbon neutral concerts and venues, biodiesel for vehicles and generators, waste reduction, biodegradable catering products; recycling, green bus supplies and cleaners, energy efficiency, green contract rider, environmentally sustainable merchandise, green sponsorship, and educational outreach.\n\nReverb provides learning experiences designed to engage volunteers with local nonprofit groups. Customers can also donate money for environmental causes and receive a sticker.\n\nThe group has worked with artists including Jason Mraz, The Dead, Phish, Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer, Harry Styles and the Lilith Fair.\n"}
{"id": "365266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365266", "title": "Robert Frank", "text": "Robert Frank\n\nRobert Frank (born November 9, 1924) is a Swiss-American photographer and documentary filmmaker. His most notable work, the 1958 book titled \"The Americans\", earned Frank comparisons to a modern-day de Tocqueville for his fresh and nuanced outsider's view of American society. Critic Sean O'Hagan, writing in \"The Guardian\" in 2014, said \"The Americans\" \"changed the nature of photography, what it could say and how it could say it. [ . . . ] it remains perhaps the most influential photography book of the 20th century.\" Frank later expanded into film and video and experimented with manipulating photographs and photomontage.\n\nFrank was born in Switzerland. His mother was named Rosa Franks and his father was named Hermann Frank. Robert Frank states in Gerald Fox's 2005 documentary \"Leaving Home, Coming Home\" that his mother, Rosa (other sources state her name as Regina), had a Swiss passport, while his father, Hermann originating from Frankfurt, Germany had become stateless after losing his German citizenship as a Jew. They had to apply for the Swiss citizenship of Robert and his older brother, Manfred. Though Frank and his family remained safe in Switzerland during World War II, the threat of Nazism nonetheless affected his understanding of oppression. He turned to photography, in part as a means to escape the confines of his business-oriented family and home, and trained under a few photographers and graphic designers before he created his first hand-made book of photographs, \"40 Fotos\", in 1946. Frank emigrated to the United States in 1947, and secured a job in New York City as a fashion photographer for \"Harper's Bazaar\".\n\nIn 1949, the new editor of \"Camera\" magazine, Walter Laubli (1902–1991), published a substantial portfolio of Jakob Tuggener pictures made at upper-class entertainments and in factories, alongside the work of the 25 year-old Frank who had just returned to his native Switzerland after two years abroad, with pages including some of his first pictures from New York. The magazine promoted the two as representatives of the ‘new photography’ of Switzerland.\n\nTuggener was a role model for the younger artist, first mentioned to him by Frank's boss and mentor, Zurich commercial photographer Michael Wolgensinger (1913–1990) who understood that Frank was unsuited to the more mercenary application of the medium. Tuggener, as a serious artist who had left the commercial world behind, was the “one Frank really did love, from among all Swiss photographers,” according to Guido Magnaguagno and \"Fabrik\", as a photo book, was a model for Frank’s Les Américains ('The Americans') published ten years later in Paris by Delpire, in 1958.\n\nHe soon left to travel in South America and Europe. He created another hand-made book of photographs that he shot in Peru, and returned to the U.S. in 1950. That year was momentous for Frank, who, after meeting Edward Steichen, participated in the group show \"51 American Photographers\" at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA); he also married fellow artist Mary Frank née Mary Lockspeiser, with whom he had two children, Andrea and Pablo.\nThough he was initially optimistic about the United States' society and culture, Frank's perspective quickly changed as he confronted the fast pace of American life and what he saw as an overemphasis on money. He now saw America as an often bleak and lonely place, a perspective that became evident in his later photography. Frank's own dissatisfaction with the control that editors exercised over his work also undoubtedly colored his experience. He continued to travel, moving his family briefly to Paris. In 1953, he returned to New York and continued to work as a freelance photojournalist for magazines including \"McCall's\", \"Vogue\", and \"Fortune\". Associating with other contemporary photographers such as Saul Leiter and Diane Arbus, he helped form what Jane Livingston has termed The New York School of photographers (not to be confused with the New York School of art) during the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nIn 1955 Frank received the further recognition that came the inclusion by Edward Steichen of seven his photographs (many more than most other contributors) in the world-touring Museum of Modern Art exhibition The Family of Man that was to be seen by 9 million visitors and with a popular catalogue that is still in print. Frank's contributions had been taken in Spain (of a woman kissing her swaddled babe-in-arms), of a bowed old woman in Peru, a rheumy-eyed miner in Wales, and the others in England and the USA, including two (one atypically soft-focus) of his wife in pregnancy, and one of six laughing women in the window of the White Tower Hamburger Stand on Fourteenth Street, New York City, later included in \"The Americans\".\n\nInspired by fellow Swiss Jakob Tuggener's 1943 filmic book \"Fabrik,\" Bill Brandt's \"The English at Home\" (1936), and Walker Evans \"American Photographs\" (1938), and on the recommendation of Evans (a previous recipient), Alexey Brodovitch, Alexander Leiberman, Edward Steichen, and Meyer Schapiro, Frank secured a Guggenheim Fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation in 1955 to travel across the United States and photograph all strata of its society. Cities he visited included Detroit and Dearborn, Michigan; Savannah, Georgia; Miami Beach and St. Petersburg, Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana; Houston, Texas; Los Angeles, California; Reno, Nevada; Salt Lake City, Utah; Butte, Montana; and Chicago, Illinois. He took his family along with him for part of his series of road trips over the next two years, during which time he took 28,000 shots. 83 of these were selected by him for publication in \"The Americans\".\n\nFrank's journey was not without incident. He later recalled the anti-Semitism to which he was subject in a small Arkansas town. \"I remember the guy [policeman] took me into the police station, and he sat there and put his feet on the table. It came out that I was Jewish because I had a letter from the Guggenheim Foundation. They really were primitive.\" He was told by the sheriff, \"Well, we have to get somebody who speaks Yiddish.\" ... \"They wanted to make a thing out of it. It was the only time it happened on the trip. They put me in jail. It was scary. Nobody knew where I was.\" Elsewhere in the South, he was told by a sheriff that he had \"an hour to leave town.\" Those incidents may have contributed to the dark view of America found in the work.\n\nShortly after returning to New York in 1957, Frank met Beat writer Jack Kerouac on the sidewalk outside a party and showed him the photographs from his travels. Kerouac immediately told Frank, \"Sure I can write something about these pictures.\" He eventually contributed the introduction to the U.S. edition of \"The Americans\". Frank also became lifelong friends with Allen Ginsberg, and was one of the main visual artists to document the Beat subculture, which felt an affinity with Frank's interest in documenting the tensions between the optimism of the 1950s and the realities of class and racial differences. The irony that Frank found in the gloss of American culture and wealth over this tension gave his photographs a clear contrast to those of most contemporary American photojournalists, as did his use of unusual focus, low lighting and cropping that deviated from accepted photographic techniques.\n\nThis divergence from contemporary photographic standards gave Frank difficulty at first in securing an American publisher. \"Les Américains\" was first published in 1958 by Robert Delpire in Paris, as part of its \"Encyclopédie Essentielle\" series, with texts by Simone de Beauvoir, Erskine Caldwell, William Faulkner, Henry Miller and John Steinbeck that Delpire positioned opposite Frank's photographs. It was finally published in 1959 in the United States, without the texts, by Grove Press, where it initially received substantial criticism. \"Popular Photography\", for one, derided his images as \"meaningless blur, grain, muddy exposures, drunken horizons and general sloppiness.\" Though sales were also poor at first, the fact that the introduction was by the popular Kerouac helped it reach a larger audience. Over time and through its inspiration of later artists, \"The Americans\" became a seminal work in American photography and art history, and is the work with which Frank is most clearly identified. Critic Sean O'Hagan, writing in \"The Guardian\" in 2014, said \"it is impossible to imagine photography's recent past and overwhelmingly confusing present without his lingeringly pervasive presence.\" and that \"The Americans\" \"changed the nature of photography, what it could say and how it could say it. [ . . . ] it remains perhaps the most influential photography book of the 20th century.\"\n\nIn 1961, Frank received his first individual show, entitled \"Robert Frank: Photographer\", at the Art Institute of Chicago. He also showed at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 1962.\n\nTo mark the fiftieth anniversary of the first publication of \"The Americans\", a new edition was released worldwide on May 30, 2008. For this new edition from Steidl, most photographs are uncropped (in contrast to the cropped versions in previous editions), and two photographs are replaced with those of the same subject but from an alternate perspective.\n\nA celebratory exhibit of \"The Americans\", titled \"Looking In: Robert Frank's The Americans\", was displayed in 2009 at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA), and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The second section of the four-section, 2009, SFMOMA exhibition displays Frank's original application to the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation (which funded the primary work on \"The Americans\" project), along with vintage contact sheets, letters to photographer Walker Evans and author Jack Kerouac, and two early manuscript versions of Kerouac's introduction to the book. Also exhibited were three collages (made from more than 115 original rough work prints) that were assembled under Frank's supervision in 2007 and 2008, revealing his intended themes as well as his first rounds of image selection. An accompanying book, also titled \"Looking In: Robert Frank's The Americans\", was published, the most in-depth examination of any photography book ever, at 528 pages. While working as a guard at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Jason Eskenazi asked other noted photographers visiting the \"Looking In\" exhibition to choose their favorite image from \"The Americans\" and explain their choice, resulting in the book, \"By the Glow of the Jukebox: The Americans List\".\n\nBy the time \"The Americans\" was published in the United States, Frank had moved away from photography to concentrate on filmmaking. Among his films was the 1959 \"Pull My Daisy,\" which was written and narrated by Kerouac and starred Ginsberg, Gregory Corso and others from the Beat circle. The Beats emphasized spontaneity, and the film conveyed the quality of having been thrown together or even improvised. \"Pull My Daisy\" was accordingly praised for years as an improvisational masterpiece, until Frank's co-director, Alfred Leslie, revealed in a November 28, 1968 article in the \"Village Voice\" that the film was actually carefully planned, rehearsed, and directed by him and Frank, who shot the film with professional lighting.\n\nIn 1960, Frank was staying in Pop artist George Segal's basement while filming \"The Sin of Jesus\" with a grant from Walter K. Gutman. Isaac Babel's story was transformed to center on a woman working on a chicken farm in New Jersey. It was originally supposed to be filmed in six weeks in and around New Brunswick, but Frank ended up shooting for six months.\n\nFrank's 1972 documentary of the Rolling Stones, \"Cocksucker Blues\", is arguably his best known film. The film shows the Stones on tour, engaging in heavy drug use and group sex. Frank said of the Stones, \"It was great to watch them — the excitement. But my job was after the show. What I was photographing was a kind of boredom. It's so difficult being famous. It's a horrendous life. Everyone wants to get something from you.\" Mick Jagger reportedly told Frank, \"It's a fucking good film, Robert, but if it shows in America we'll never be allowed in the country again.\" The Stones sued to prevent the film's release, and it was disputed whether Frank as the artist or the Stones as those who hired the artist owned the copyright. A court order restricted the film to being shown no more than five times per year, and only in the presence of Frank. Frank's photography also appeared on the cover of the Rolling Stones' album \"Exile on Main St.\".\n\nOther films by Frank include \"Me and My Brother\", \"Keep Busy\", and \"Candy Mountain\" (the last was co-directed with Rudy Wurlitzer).\n\nThough Frank continued to be interested in film and video, he returned to still images in the 1970s, publishing his second photographic book, \"The Lines of My Hand\", in 1972. This work has been described as a \"visual autobiography\", and consists largely of personal photographs. However, he largely gave up \"straight\" photography to instead create narratives out of constructed images and collages, incorporating words and multiple frames of images that were directly scratched and distorted on the negatives. None of this later work has achieved an impact comparable to that of \"The Americans.\" As some critics have pointed out, this is perhaps because Frank began playing with constructed images more than a decade after Robert Rauschenberg introduced his silkscreen composites—in contrast to \"The Americans\", Frank's later images simply were not beyond the pale of accepted technique and practice by that time.\n\nFrank and Mary separated in 1969. He remarried, to sculptor June Leaf, and in 1971, moved to the community of Mabou, Nova Scotia in Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia in Canada. In 1974, tragedy struck when his daughter, Andrea, was killed in a plane crash in Tikal, Guatemala. Also around this time, his son, Pablo, was first hospitalized and diagnosed with schizophrenia. Much of Frank's subsequent work has dealt with the impact of the loss of both his daughter and subsequently his son, who died in an Allentown, Pennsylvania hospital in 1994. In 1995, he founded the Andrea Frank Foundation, which provides grants to artists.\n\nSince his move to Nova Scotia, Canada, Frank has divided his time between his home there in a former fisherman's shack on the coast, and his Bleecker Street loft in New York. He has acquired a reputation for being a recluse (particularly since the death of Andrea), declining most interviews and public appearances. He has continued to accept eclectic assignments, however, such as photographing the 1984 Democratic National Convention, and directing music videos for artists such as New Order (\"Run\"), and Patti Smith (\"Summer Cannibals\"). Frank continues to produce both films and still images, and has helped organize several retrospectives of his art. His work has been represented by Pace/MacGill Gallery in New York since 1984. In 1994, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. presented the most comprehensive retrospective of Frank's work to date, entitled \"Moving Out\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2820525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2820525", "title": "Romanians of Serbia", "text": "Romanians of Serbia\n\nRomanians (, / ) are a recognised national minority in Serbia. The total number of declared Romanians according to the 2011 census was 29,332, while 35,330 people declared themselves Vlachs; there are differing views among some of the Vlachs over they should be regarded as Romanians or as members of a distinctive nationality. Declared Romanians are mostly concentrated in Banat, while declared Vlachs are mostly concentrated in Eastern Serbia.\n\nOf the total number of 29,332 declared Romanians in the 2011 census, 22,353 live in Banat and 1,826 live in Eastern Serbia. Of the total number of 35,330 declared Vlachs, 32,805 live in Eastern Serbia, and 134 in Banat. The largest concentration of Romanians in Banat are to be found in the municipalities of Alibunar (24.1%) and Vršac (10.4%).\n\nAfter World War I, the Treaty of Versailles, which defined the borders between Romania and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, left a Romanian minority of 75,223 people (1910 census in Vojvodina) inside the borders of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. In the 1921 census in Vojvodina, Romanian-speakers numbered 65,197 people. According to the 2011 census, there were 42,391 Romanians in Vojvodina (2.2% of the population of Vojvodina).\n\nSettlements in the Serbian Banat (Vojvodina) with a Romanian majority or plurality (2002 census data):\n\nIt is likely that a part of the Vlachs can trace their ancient roots to this region. The present geographic location of the Vlachs is near a former location in the medieval Second Bulgarian Empire (also called the Empire of Vlachs and Bulgars) of the Asens, suggesting their continuity in the area. In addition a Vlach population in the regions around Braničevo (near the ancient Roman city of Viminacium) is attested by 15th century Ottoman defters (tax records). The modern Vlachs occupy the same area where in antiquity the Romans had a strong presence for many centuries: Viminacium and Felix Romuliana.\n\nHowever, some of the Vlachs of north-eastern parts of Central Serbia were settled there from regions north of the Danube by the Habsburgs at the beginning of the 18th century. The origins of these Vlachs are indicated by their own self-designations: \"Ungureani (Ungureni)\" (serb. \"Ungurjani\"), i.e. those who came from Hungary (that is, Banat and Transylvania) and \"Ţărani\" (serb. \"Carani\"), who are either an autochthonic population of the region (their name means \"people of the country\" or \"countrymen\"), either they came from Wallachia ( - \"Romanian State\").\n\nThe area roughly defined by the Morava, the Danube and the Timok rivers where most of the Vlachs live became part of modern Serbia. Until 1833 the eastern Serbian border was the Homolje-Mountains (the slopes of the Serbian Carpathians) and the state had no common border with Walachia. Prior to that, the land was part of the Ottoman Empire (Pashaluk of Vidin and Pashaluk of Smederevo) and Habsburg Empire (Governorate of Serbia).\n\nThe second wave of Vlachs from present-day Romania came in the middle of the 19th century. In 1835 feudalism was fully abolished in the Principality of Serbia and smaller groups from Wallachia came there to enjoy the status of free peasants. (1856: 104,343 Romanians lived in Serbia, 1859: 122,593 Romanians)\n\nAccording to the Treaty of Neuilly-sur-Seine from 1919, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes annexed from Bulgaria also a small section along the Timok River in the municipality and District of Zaječar, composed by 8 localities (7 populated by Romanians and 1 populated by Bulgarians).\n\nAs Daco-Romanian-speakers, the Vlachs have a connection to the Roman heritage in Serbia. Following Roman withdrawal from the province of Dacia at the end of the 3rd century, the name of the Roman region was changed to Dacia Aureliana, and (later Dacia Ripensis) spread over most of what is now called Serbia and Bulgaria, and an undetermined number of Romanized Dacians (Carpi) were settled there. Strong Roman presence in the region persisted through the end of Justinian's reign in the 6th century.\n\nThe region where Vlachs predominantly live later on was part of the Second Bulgarian Empire, whose first rulers, the Asens, are considered Vlach. King Stephen Uroš II Milutin of Serbia had most of Timok after his conquering of rival King Stephen Dragutin's lands. The chroniclers of the crusaders describe meeting Vlachs in the 12th and 13th century in various parts of modern Serbia. Serbian documents from the 13th and 14th century mention Vlachs, including Emperor Dušan the Mighty, in his prohibition of intermarriage between Serbs and Vlachs. 14th and 15th century Romanian (Wallachian) rulers built churches in NE Serbia. 15th century Turkish tax records (\"defters\") list Vlachs in the region of Braničevo in NE Serbia, near the ancient Roman municipium and colonia of Viminacium.\n\nStarting in the early 18th century NE Serbia was settled by Romanians (then known by their international exonym as Vlachs) from Banat, parts of Transylvania, and Oltenia (Lesser Walachia). These are the Ungureni (\"Ungurjani\"), Munteni (\"Munćani\") and Bufeni (\"Bufani\"). Today about three quarters of the Vlach population speak the Ungurean subdialect. In the 19th century other groups of Romanians, originating in Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia), also settled south of the Danube. These are the Ţărani (Carani), who form some 25% of the modern population. The very name Ţărani indicates their origin in Ţara Româneasca, i.e., \"The Romanian Land,\" Wallachia and Oltenia. It should be noted that from the 15th through the 18th centuries large numbers of Serbs also migrated across the Danube, but in the opposite direction, to both Banat and Ţara Româneasca. Significant migration ended with the establishment of the kingdoms of Serbia and Rumania, respectively, in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nThe lack of detailed census records and the linguistic effects of the Ungureni and Ţărani on the entire Vlach population make it difficult to determine what fraction of the present Vlachs can trace their origins directly to the ancient south-of-the-Danube Vlachs. The Vlachs of NE Serbia form a contiguous linguistic, cultural and historic group with the Vlachs in the region of Vidin in Bulgaria, as well as the Romanians of Banat and Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia).\n\nIn a Romanian-Yugoslav agreement of November 4, 2002, the Yugoslav authorities agreed to recognize the Romanian identity of the Vlach population in Central Serbia, but the agreement was not implemented. In April 2005, many deputies from the Council of Europe protested against the position of this population in Serbian society. In August 2007, they were officially recognized as a national minority, and their language was recognized as Romanian.\n\nIn Vojvodina, Romanian enjoys the status of official language and Romanians in this province receive a wide range of minority rights, including access to state-funded media and education in their native language. Most of the Romanians of Serbia are Eastern Orthodox by faith, belonging to the Romanian Orthodox Church (Romanians in Vojvodina) and Serbian Orthodox Church (Vlachs of Central Serbia). The relative isolation of the Vlachs has permitted the survival of various pre-Christian religious rites that are frowned upon by the Orthodox Church.\n\nThe language spoken by one major group of Vlachs is similar to the Oltenian variety spoken in Romania while that of the other major group is similar to the Romanian variety of Banat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "601113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601113", "title": "Second Mexican Empire", "text": "Second Mexican Empire\n\nThe Mexican Empire () or Second Mexican Empire () was the name of Mexico under a limited hereditary monarchy declared by the Assembly of Notables on July 10, 1863, during the Second French intervention in Mexico. It was created with the support of Napoleon III of France, who attempted to establish a monarchist ally in the Americas. A referendum confirmed Austrian Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian, of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine, as Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico.\n\nPromoted by the powerful and conservative elite of Mexico's \"hacendados\", with the support of the French, as well as from the Austrian and Belgian crowns, the intervention attempted to create a monarchical system in Mexico, as it had functioned during the 300 years of the viceroyalty of New Spain and for the short term of the imperial independent reign of Emperor Agustín I of Mexico. Support came mainly from conservative Catholics, who were at the time a majority within Mexico, and the main means came from the Mexican nobility, who aimed to promote stability. The Empire came to an end on June 19, 1867, with the execution of Emperor Maximilian I.\n\nThe rule of Emperor Maximilian was blemished by constant conflict. On his arrival in 1864 with his wife, Empress Carlota of Mexico, daughter of King Leopold I of the Belgians, he found himself in the middle of a political struggle between the Conservatives who backed him and the opposing Liberals, headed by Benito Juárez. The two factions had set up parallel governments: the Conservatives in Mexico City controlling central Mexico and the Liberals in Veracruz. The Conservatives received funding from Europe, especially from Isabella II of Spain and Napoleon III of France; the Liberals found backing from United States Presidents Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson, after the U.S. had finished its own Civil War in 1865.\n\nThe United States government viewed Emperor Maximilian as a French puppet, and did not regard his reign as the will of most Mexicans or see him as the legitimate leader of Mexico. They demanded the withdrawal of French forces, and France acceded. In 1867, the empire fell and Maximilian was executed at the orders of Benito Juárez, in the Cerro de las Campanas near Querétaro.\n\nMaximilian proved to be too liberal for the conservatives, and too conservative for the liberals. He regarded Mexico as his destiny and made many contributions. Before his death, Maximilian adopted the grandsons of the first Mexican emperor, Agustín de Iturbide: Agustín de Iturbide y Green and Salvador de Iturbide y Marzán.\n\nNapoleon III had more ambitious goals than the recovery of France's debts. Heavily influenced by his wife Empress Eugenie, he was intent on reviving the Mexican monarchy. Prior to 1861 any interference in the affairs of Mexico by European powers would have been viewed as a challenge to the U.S., and no one wanted to provoke a conflict with them. In 1861 the U.S. was embroiled in its own conflict, the American Civil War, which made the U.S. government in Washington, D.C., powerless to intervene. Encouraged by Empress Eugenie, who saw herself as the champion of the Catholic Church in Mexico, Napoleon III took advantage of the situation.\n\nNapoleon III saw the opportunity to make France the great modernizing influence in the Western Hemisphere, as well as enabling the country to capture the South American markets. To give him further encouragement, there was his half brother, the duc de Morny, who was the largest holder of Mexican bonds.\n\nOne of the main challenges encountered by the Emperor was the lack of sufficient infrastructure to link the different parts of the realm. The main goal was connecting the port of Veracruz and the capital in Mexico City. In 1857, Don Antonio Escandón secured the right to build a line from the port of Veracruz to Mexico City and on to the Pacific Ocean. Revolution and political instability stifled progress on the financing or construction of the line until 1864, when, under the regime of Emperor Maximilian, the Imperial Mexican Railway Company began construction of the line. Political upheaval continued to stifle progress, and the initial segment from Veracruz to Mexico City was inaugurated nine years later on January 1, 1873 by President Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada.\n\nIn 1857 the original proprietors of the government concession, the Masso Brothers, inaugurated on the 4th of July the train service from Tlatelolco, in México City, to the nearby town of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Eventually they ran out of funds and decided to sell it to Manuel Escandón and Antonio Escandón. The Escandón Brothers continued working and the project, and Antonio Escandón visited the United States and England in the last months of the year. In the first country, he hired Andrew Talcott, and in the latter, he sold company stock. Exploration of a route from Orizaba to Maltrata was performed by engineers Andrew H. Talcott and Pascual Almazán.\n\nDuring the French intervention, part of the railways were destroyed. The only option available was the establishment of a pact between the French Army, and the two companies of the Escandón Brothers. The French Army was to provide a subsidy to the companies of 120 000 francs a month for the works, and the companies were to establish service from Veracruz to Soledad para by May, actually concluding on August 15, 1862, concluding 41 kilometres of tracks. Next they reached the Camarón station, with a length of 62 kilometres. By October 16, 1864 they reached Paso del Macho with a length of 76 kilometres.\n\nOn September 19, 1864, the Imperial Mexican Railway Company (Compañía Limitada del Ferrocarril Imperial Mexicano) was Incorporated in London to complete the earlier projects and continued construction on this line. Escandón ceded his privileges to the new company. Smith, Knight and Co. was later contracted in 1864 by the Imperial Mexican Railway to continue work on the line from Mexico City to Veracruz. William Elliot was employed as Chief Assistant for three years on the construction of about 70 miles of the heaviest portion of the Mexican Railway, after which he returned to England. He had several years of experience building railways in England, India, and Brazil. In this last country, he held the position of Engineer-in-Chief of the Province of São Paulo.\n\nMaximiliano I hired engineer M Lyons for the construction of the line from La Soledad to Monte del Chiquihuite, later on joining the line from Veracruz to Paso del Macho. Works were begun in Maltrata, at the same time that the works from Veracruz and Mexico City kept moving forward. By the end of the Empire in June 1867, 76 kilometers from Veracruz to Paso del Macho were functional (part of the concession to Lyons) and the line from Mexico City reached Apizaco with 139 km.\n\nBefore 1864, there was no banking in Mexico. Credits were obtained from religious orders and merchant guilds. During the French Intervention, the branch of a British bank was opened. The London Bank of Mexico and South America Ltd began operations with a capital of two and a half million pesos. It belonged to the Baring Brothers Group, and had its head office in the corner of the Capuchinas and Lerdo Streets in Downtown Mexico City.\n\nAt the beginning of the American Civil War, the city of Matamoros was simply a sleepy little border town across the Rio Grande from Brownsville. It had, for several years, been considered a port, but it had relatively few ships arriving. Previous to the war, accounts mention that not over six ships entered the port each year. Nevertheless, in about four years, Matamoros, due to its proximity to Texas, was to assume state as a port, and multiply its inhabitants in number. Following is a quote from a Union General in 1885 describing the importance of the port in Matamoros:\n\nThe cotton trade brought together in Bagdad, Tamaulipas and Matamoros over 20,000 speculators from the Union and the Confederacy, England, France, and Germany. Bagdad had grown from a small, seashore town to a \"full-pledge town.\" The English-speaking population in the area by 1864 was so great that Matamoros even had a newspaper printed in English—it was called the \"Matamoros Morning Call\". In addition, the port exported cotton to England and France, where millions of people needed it for their daily livelihood, and it was possible to receive fifty cents per pound in gold for cotton, when it cost about three cents in the Confederacy, \"and much more money was received for it laid down in New York and European ports.\" Other sources mention that the port of Matamoros traded with London, Havana, Belize, and New Orleans. The Matamoros and New York City trade agreement, however, continued throughout the war and until 1864, and it was considered \"heavy and profitable.\"\n\nBy 1865, Matamoros was described as a prosperous town of 30,000 people, and Lew Wallace informed General Ulysses S. Grant that neither Baltimore or New Orleans could compare itself to the growing commercial activity of Matamoros. Nevertheless, after the collapse of the Confederacy, \"gloom, despondency, and despair\" became evident in Matamoros—markets shut down, business almost ceased to exist, and ships were rarely seen. \"For Sale\" signs began to sprout up everywhere, and Matamoros returned to its role of a sleepy little border town across the Rio Grande.\n\nThe conclusion of the American Civil War brought a severe crisis to the now abandoned Port of Bagdad, a crisis that until this day the port has never recovered from. In addition, a tremendous hurricane in 1889 destroyed the desolated port. This same hurricane was one of the many hurricanes during the period of devastating hurricanes of 1870 to 1889, which reduced the population of Matamoros to nearly half its size, mounting with it another upsetting economic downturn.\n\nMaximilian I wanted to reorganize the territory following scientific criteria, instead of following historical ties, traditional allegiances and the interests of local groups. The task of designing this new division was given to Manuel Orozco y Berra (1816-1881).\n\nThis task was realized according to the following criteria: \n\nOn March 13, 1865, the new Law on the territorial division of the Mexican Empire was published. The Empire was divided into 50 departments (\"\"):\n\n\n\"The information from this table was the estimate for the year 1865.\"\n\nToday, the Second Mexican Empire is advocated by small far-right groups like the Nationalist Front of Mexico, whose followers believe the Empire to have been a legitimate attempt to deliver Mexico from the hegemony of the United States. They are reported to gather every year at Querétaro, the place where Maximilian and his generals were executed.\n\nThe 1970 film \"Two Mules for Sister Sara\" was set in Mexico during the years of the Second Mexican Empire. The two main characters, played by Clint Eastwood and Shirley MacLaine, aided a Mexican resistance force and ultimately led them to overpower a French garrison.\n\nThe 1969 film \"The Undefeated\" starring John Wayne and Rock Hudson portrays events during the French Intervention in Mexico and was also loosely based on the escape of Confederate General Sterling Price to Mexico after the American Civil War and his attempt to join with Maximilian's forces.\n\nThe 1965 film \"Major Dundee\" starring Charlton Heston and Richard Harris featured Union cavalry (supplemented by Galvanized Yankees) crossing into Mexico and fighting French forces towards the end of the American Civil War.\n\nThe 1954 film \"Vera Cruz\" was also set in Mexico and has an appearance of Maximilian having a target shooting competition with Gary Cooper and Burt Lancaster's character at Chapultepec Castle. Maximilian was played by George Macready, who at 54 was twenty years older than the Emperor was in 1866.\n\nThe 1939 film \"Juarez\" featured Paul Muni as Benito Juárez, Bette Davis as Empress Carlota, and Brian Aherne as Emperor Maximilian. It was based, in part, on Bertita Harding's novel \"The Phantom Crown\" (1937).\n\nIn the \"Southern Victory Series\" by Harry Turtledove, Maximilian's Empire survives the turmoil of the 1860s into the 20th century due to the Confederate States emerging victorious in its battle against the United States of America in the \"War of Secession\"; thus, the United States becomes too weak and unwilling to pressure Maximilian's puppet state to capitulate to rebels and dissolve. It fights alongside the Confederate States against the United States in 1881-1882, 1914-1917 and 1941-1944 and experiences a civil war during the interwar years between republicans and Habsburg royalists. In 1881, it sold its northern provinces of Sonora and Chihuahua to the Confederacy and in 1944, it lost its extraterritorial province of Baja California to the United States after the Second Great War.\n\nThe 1990 novel \"The Difference Engine\", co-authored by William Gibson and Bruce Stirling, is set in an alternate 1855 where the timeline diverged in 1824 with Charles Babbage's completion of the difference engine. One consequence is the occupation of Mexico by the Second French Empire with Napoleon III as the de facto emperor instead of the installation of Emperor Maxillian.\n\nIn Mexican popular culture, there have been soap operas like \"El Carruaje\" (1967), plays, films, and historical novels such as Fernando del Paso's \"Noticias del Imperio\" (1987). Biographies, memoirs, and novels have been published since the 1860s, and among the most recent have been Prince Michael of Greece's \"The Empress of Farewells\", available in various languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16192633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16192633", "title": "Shihhi Arabic", "text": "Shihhi Arabic\n\nShihhi Arabic (also known as Shehhi, Shihu, Shihuh, or Al-Shihuh) is a variety of Arabic spoken in the Musandam Governorate of Oman and Ras al Khaimah emirate of UAE.\n\n"}
{"id": "16280461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16280461", "title": "Social nature", "text": "Social nature\n\nSocial Nature is the core concept of a geographical work on the social construction of nature, entitled \"Social nature: theory, practice and politics\", which has been published by Noel Castree and Bruce Braun in 2001.\n\nIt says that the concept of Social Nature was created by critical geographers and embraces the idea of a socialized nature. Critical geographers like David Harvey and Neil Smith \"insisted that nature is social in three related ways\":\n"}
{"id": "24610793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24610793", "title": "Sorrowful and Immaculate Heart of Mary (cult)", "text": "Sorrowful and Immaculate Heart of Mary (cult)\n\nThe Sorrowful and Immaculate Heart of Mary () is a new religious movement with Catholic background founded in 2001 by Juliano Verbard in Piton Saint-Leu, Réunion. The group, widely referred to as a cult, was the subject of a substantial coverage in the media after several judicial cases involving the founder.\n\nBorn in 1982, founder Juliano Verbard calls himself \"Little Lily of Love\" (\"Petit Lys d'Amour\"). He claims that the Virgin Mary speaks to him every day of the 8th day of each month at 22 in a coconut tree. Followers must pay 20 euro to attend to collective prayers.\n\nOn 9 July 2007, he kidnapped Alexander, a 12-year child, in Sainte-Suzanne, Réunion, in whom he saw his successor and who was released on 5 August 2007. In February 2008, he was accused of child abuse and fraud and was sentenced to fifteen-year imprisonment for raping two children who were respectively 8 and 13. In April 2009, he managed to escape from prison by helicopter with two of his followers, Alexis Michel and his son Jean-Fabrice. He was recaptured in May of the same year, and eventually sentenced to an additional 13 years for the escape.\n\nThis movement was not recognized by the Catholic hierarchy. It was inspired by an Australian religious group named the Order of Saint Charbel, created by German William Kamm, known as \"Little Pebble\" (\"Petit Caillou\"). It was also inspired by a French community named Amour et Miséricorde, located in the Jura department in which Verbard lived in 2003.\n\nThe religious group is criticized by French anti-cult associations, including CCMM and ADFI which considered it as a cult.\n"}
{"id": "21735786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21735786", "title": "Turks in South Africa", "text": "Turks in South Africa\n\nTurks in South Africa refers to the ethnic Turkish community living in South Africa.\n\nTurks began immigrating to South Africa during the 19th century. In 1889, the Ottoman Turks sent and maintained Honorary Consulates in Johannesburg and Durban. By April 1914, Mehmet Remzi Bey was assigned as Consul General of the Ottoman Empire to Johannesburg; he died in 1916 and was buried in the Braamfontein cemetery in Johannesburg. On 21 November 2011, his remains were transferred to a memorial garden at the Nizamiye Mosque in Johannesburg.\n\nAt the request of the members of the sizeable Muslim community who were living in the Cape Colony, the Ottoman government sent Abu Bakr Effendi to Cape Town to teach as well as preach Islam and help settle religious matters among Muslims. His descendants still live in various parts of South Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24148827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24148827", "title": "Urban computing", "text": "Urban computing\n\nUrban computing is an interdisciplinary field which pertains to the study and application of computing technology in urban areas. This involves the application of wireless networks, sensors, computational power, and data to improve the quality of densely populated areas:\n\nThe term \"urban computing\" was first introduced by Eric Paulos at the 2004 UbiComp conference and in his paper The Familiar Stranger co-authored with Elizabeth Goodman. Although closely tied to the field of urban informatics, Marcus Foth differentiates the two in his preface to \"Handbook of Research on Urban Informatics\" by saying that urban computing, urban technology, and urban infrastructure focus more on technological dimensions whereas urban informatics focuses on the social and human implications of technology in cities.\n\nWithin the domain of computer science, urban computing draws from the domains of wireless and sensor networks, information science, and human-computer interaction. Urban computing uses many of the paradigms introduced by ubiquitous computing in that collections of devices are used to gather data about the urban environment to help improve the quality of life for people affected by cities. What further differentiates urban computing from traditional remote sensing networks is the variety of devices, inputs, and human interaction involved. In traditional sensor networks, devices are often purposefully built and specifically deployed for monitoring certain phenomenon such as temperature, noise, and light. As an interdisciplinary field, urban computing also has practitioners and applications in fields including civil engineering, anthropology, public history, health care, urban planning, and energy, among others.\n\nCities are more than a collection of places and people - places are continually reinvented and re-imagined by the people occupying them. As such, the prevalence of computing in urban spaces leads people to supplement their physical reality with what is virtually available. Toward this end, researchers engaged in ethnography, collective memory, and public history have leveraged urban computing strategies to introduce platforms that enable people to share their interpretation of the urban environment. Examples of such projects include CLIO—an urban computing system that came out of the Collective City Memory of Oulu study—which \"allows people to share personal memories, context annotate them and relate them with city landmarks, thus creating the collective city memory.\" and the Cleveland Historical project which aims to create a shared history of the city by allowing people to contribute stories through their own digital devices.\n\nEnergy consumption and pollution throughout the world is heavily impacted by urban transportation. In an effort to better utilize and update current infrastructures, researchers have used urban computing to better understand gas emissions by conducting field studies using GPS data from a sample of vehicles, refueling data from gas stations, and self-reporting online participants. From this, knowledge of the density and speed of traffic traversing a city's road network can be used to suggest cost-efficient driving routes, and identify road segments where gas has been significantly wasted. Information and predictions of pollution density gathered in this way could also be used to generate localized air quality alerts. Additionally, these data could produce estimates of gas stations’ wait times to suggest more efficient stops, as well as give a geographic view of the efficiency of gas station placement.\n\nSmart phones, tablets, smart watches, and other mobile computing devices can provide information beyond simple communication and entertainment. In regards to public and personal health, organizations like the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) have taken to Twitter and other social media platforms, to provide rapid dissemination of disease outbreaks, medical discoveries, and other news. Beyond simply tracking the spread of disease, urban computing can even help predict it. A study by Jeremy Ginsberg et al. discovered that flu-related search queries serve as a reliable indicator of a future outbreak, thus allowing for the tracking of flu outbreaks based on the geographic location of such flu-related searches. This discovery spurred a collaboration between the CDC and Google to create a map of predicted flu outbreaks based on this data.\n\nUrban computing can also be used to track and predict pollution in certain areas. Research involving the use of artificial neural networks (ANN) and conditional random fields (CRF) has shown that air pollution for a large area can be predicted based on the data from a small number of air pollution monitoring stations. These findings can be used to track air pollution and to prevent the adverse health effects in cities already struggling with high pollution. On days when air pollution is especially high, for example, there could be a system in place to alert residents to particularly dangerous areas.\n\nMobile computing platforms can be used to facilitate social interaction. In the context of urban computing, the ability to place proximity beacons in the environment, the density of population, and infrastructure available enables digitally facilitated interaction. Paulos and Goodman's paper The Familiar Stranger introduces several categories of interaction ranging from family to strangers and interactions ranging from personal to in passing. Social interactions can be facilitated by purpose-built devices, proximity aware applications, and “participatory” applications. These applications can use a variety techniques for users to identify where they are ranging from “checking in” to proximity detection, to self-identification. Examples of geographically aware applications include Yik Yak, an application that facilitates anonymous social interaction based on proximity of other users, Ingress which uses an augmented reality game to encourage users to interact with the area around them as well as each other, and Foursquare, which provides recommendations about services to users based on a specified location.\n\nOne of the major application areas of urban computing is to improve private and public transportation in a city. The primary sources of data are floating car data (data about where cars are at a given moment). This includes individual GPS’s, taxi GPS’s, WiFI signals, loop sensors, and (for some applications) user input.\nUrban computing can help select better driving routes, which is important for applications like Waze, Google Maps, and trip planning. Wang et al. built a system to get real-time travel time estimates. They solve the problems: one, not all road segments will have data from GPS in the last 30 minutes or ever; two, some paths will be covered by several car records, and it’s necessary to combine those records to create the most accurate estimate of travel time; and three, a city can have tens of thousands of road segments and an infinite amount of paths to be queried, so providing an instantaneous real time estimate must be scalable. They used various techniques and tested it out on 32670 taxis over two months in Beijing, and accurately estimated travel time to within 25 seconds of error per kilometer.\n\nUber is an on-demand taxi-like service where users can request rides with their smartphone. By using the data of the active riders and drivers, Uber can price discriminate based on the current rider/driver ratio. This lets them earn more money than they would without “surge pricing,” and helps get more drivers out on the street in unpopular working hours.\n\nUrban computing can also improve public transportation cheaply. A University of Washington group developed OneBusAway, which uses public bus GPS data to provide real-time bus information to riders. Placing displays at bus stops to give information is expensive, but developing several interfaces (apps, website, phone response, SMS) to OneBusAway was comparatively cheap. Among surveyed OneBusAway users, 92% were more satisfied, 91% waited less, and 30% took more trips.\n\nMaking decisions on transportation policy can also be aided with urban computing. London’s Cycle Hire system is a heavily used bicycle sharing system run by their transit authority. Originally, it required users to have a membership. They changed it to not require a membership after a while, and analyzed data of when and where bikes were rented and returned, to see what areas were active and what trends changed. They found that removing membership was a good decision that increased weekday commutes somewhat and heavily increased weekend usage. Based on the patterns and characteristics of a bicycle sharing system, the implications for data-driven decision supports have been studied for transforming urban transportation to be more sustainable.\n\nUrban computing has a lot of potential to improve urban quality of life by improving the environment people live in, such as by raising air quality and reducing noise pollution. Many chemicals that are undesirable or poisonous are polluting the air, such as PM 2.5, PM 10, and carbon monoxide. Many cities measure air quality by setting up a few measurement stations across the city, but these stations are too expensive to cover the entire city. Because air quality is complex, it’s difficult to infer the quality of air in between two measurement stations.\n\nVarious ways of adding more sensors to the cityscape have been researched, including Copenhagen wheels (sensors mounted on bike wheels and powered by the rider) and car-based sensors. While these work for carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, aerosol measurement stations aren’t portable enough to move around.\n\nThere are also attempts to infer the unknown air quality all across the city from just the samples taken at stations, such as by estimating car emissions from floating car data. Zheng et al. built a model using machine learning and data mining called U-Air. It uses historical and real-time air data, meteorology, traffic flow, human mobility, road networks, and points of interest, which are fed to artificial neural networks and conditional random fields to be processed. Their model is a significant improvement over previous models of citywide air quality.\n\nChet et al. developed a system to monitor air quality indoors, which were deployed internally by Microsoft in China. The system is based in the building’s HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) units. Since HVACs filter the air of PM 2.5, but don’t check if its necessary, the new system can save energy by preventing HVACs from running when unnecessary.\n\nAnother source of data is social media data. In particular, geo-referenced picture tags have been successfully used to infer smellscape maps \n\n"}
{"id": "20384553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20384553", "title": "William F. Kirk", "text": "William F. Kirk\n\nBorn in Mankato, Minnesota, Kirk spent most of his childhood in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. He graduated from high school there and began his career in journalism on a local paper. His humor column, \"Fleeting Fancies\", was a popular feature in the \"Chippewa Falls Herald\" and later in the \"Milwaukee Sentinel\". It brought him to the attention of metropolitan dailies and was the name of his first book, published in 1904. Kirk's lyrics drew comparisons with those of other poets, whose work he sometimes parodied: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Eugene Field, and James Whitcomb Riley.\n\nA longtime newspaperman, Kirk got his start at press outlets in Chippewa Falls and Milwaukee. In 1905 he signed a contract with the Hearst organization and moved to New York, where he was employed at two of William Randolph Hearst's papers: the \"New York American\" and the \"New York Evening Journal\". After returning to Chippewa Falls in 1918, he continued working as a nationally syndicated columnist.\n\nFor eighteen years Kirk was distributed by the International Features Syndicate and reached a national audience as he wrote on subjects as diverse as baseball, temperance, women's suffrage and divorce. His pieces were seen in everything from \"The Smart Set\" to trade union publications. He was widely known for the features \"Little Bobbie's Pa\" and \"The Manicure Lady\".\n\nRecent works on baseball's deadball era have had numerous examples of Kirk's sports writing. One can, for instance, read his account of Fred Merkle's infamous blunder or his rhyming tribute to the Flying Dutchman, Honus Wagner. \"The Unforgettable Season\" by Gordon H. Fleming recounts the 1908 National League pennant race through contemporary press coverage by Kirk and others. In 1911 Kirk published a collection of baseball ballads called \"Right Off The Bat\".\n\nIn 1918 Kirk moved back to Chippewa Falls, desiring to live among old friends and familiar surroundings. He belonged to several fraternal organizations and was a prominent figure in the town.\n\nFailing health caused his early retirement, and after an illness of many months he died of cancer in 1927.\n\nWilliam F. Kirk is especially remembered for his Scandinavian dialect poetry, written for a daily column and later published in book form. His byline, \"The Norsk Nightingale\", was a familiar sight in newspapers across the country. His first collection of dialect verse, \"The Norsk Nightingale\", presented a Norwegian lumberjack from the Upper Midwest. It was his most popular book with sixteen editions printed over a period of thirty-five years. At the time of its publication one reviewer wrote: \"Novelty and freshness, and no little ingenuity as a parodist, salute us in this volume of dialect verse hailing from the haunts of the lumberjack or, more locally, northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, where dwell so many neo-Americans of Scandinavian birth.\" \n\nHis second volume of dialect verse, \"Songs of Sergeant Swanson\", reflected the experiences of a Swedish doughboy in World War I. A book of more limited appeal, it only had one edition.\n\nKirk's ethnic poetry put forth the notion that Scandinavian-Americans were good-natured but a little slow. This humorous stereotype had been employed in the 1890s by the playwright Gus Heege in such theatrical works as \"Ole Olson\" and \"Yon Yonson\".\n\nScandinavian dialect humor took other forms: vaudeville sketches, joke books, movies, records and sheet music. In quick succession Tin Pan Alley published \"Hello Wisconsin\", \"Holy Yumpin Yiminy\" and \"Scandinavia\" (Sing Dose Song And Make Dose Music). The popular recording artists Eleonora and Ethel Olson were known for their warm depictions of immigrant life in such stories as \"The Old Sogning Woman\" and \"A Norwegian Woman Using the Telephone\".\n\nEl Brendel, Yogi Yorgesson, Stan Boreson, Rose Nylund and countless others have followed in Kirk's footsteps, and there is still a receptive audience — especially among Scandinavian-Americans — for tales of lumberjacks and sergeants with more heart than brain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26101003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26101003", "title": "Women in Taiwan", "text": "Women in Taiwan\n\nThe status of women in Taiwan has been based on and affected by the traditional patriarchal views and social structure within Taiwanese society, which put women in a subordinate position to men, although the legal status of Taiwanese women has improved in recent years, particularly during the past two decades when the family law underwent several amendments.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, married women's rights were severely restricted, but they gradually improved, especially due to legal changes made in the last 20 years (the family law was revised five times between 1996 and 2002). In 1895, Taiwan came under Japanese rule and Japanese marriage laws (which discriminated against women) were applied. After Japan's defeat in 1945, the section of family law from the Civil Law promulgated on the Republican mainland in 1930, came into force in Taiwan, too (family law was later changed in the mainland by the communist regime, but this did not apply to Taiwan). The 1930 Taiwanese Civil Code provided limited rights to Taiwanese women, such as having no right in deciding their residence, the lack of right to own property, the lack of right to file a divorce, the lack of self-protection, and the lack of right to child custody, and discrimination against illegitimate children. The situation of married women improved slightly due to changes made in 1985 and 1996. By 1998, the new regulations had made divorce a little easier, allowed the wife to keep her own property registered in her name before 1985 without proving that she previously owned it; and allowed the judge to consider the best interest of children when evaluating the custody of children in a divorce case. Yet these changes did not go as \"far\" as giving wives equal rights with husbands, as the continuation of the influence of patriarchal ideology with regards to family matters was maintained: the male still had superiority in decisions related to the wife's residence, disciplinary measures for their offsprings, and managing property. In 1998, the Domestic Violence Prevention Law came into force, dealing with domestic violence. New changes to the family law between 1998 and 2000, provided that the husband and wife's domicile is that which is agreed upon by them, rather than necessarily that of the husband's; and amended the law on legal guardians of a minor. Marriage regulations are currently based on gender equality, being found in \"Chapter II- Marriage\" of the Civil Code (Articles 972 - 1058).\nMothers and fathers now have equal rights towards their children: the original Article 1089 stated that parental rights should be exercised by the father if the father and the mother did not share the same views, but this provision was declared unconstitutional (in contradiction of Article 7 of the Constitution), and, as such, Article 1089 was amended to read: \"[...] If there is inconsistency between the parents in the exercise of the rights in regard to the grave events of the minor child, they may apply to the court for the decision in accordance with the best interests of the child\". Also, the Article 1019 (which stipulated that only the husband had the right to manage the shared property of a married couple, and had the right to use and receive profits from property that originally belonged to his wife, and not vice versa ) was repealed.\n\nWomen's rights are protected in the Constitution of Taiwan: Article 7 states: \n\"All citizens of the Republic of China, irrespective of sex, religion, race, class, or party affiliation, shall be equal before the law\". The Additional Article 10, section 6 reads: \"The State shall protect the dignity of women, safeguard their personal safety, eliminate sexual discrimination, and further substantive gender equality.\"\n\nTh Act of Gender Equality in Employment ensures women's rights in the workforce. It was enacted in 2002 under the name of \"Gender Equality in Employment Law of Taiwan\", and later was amended and renamed the \"Act of Gender Equality in Employment\".\n\nAs in other parts of East Asia, sex-selective abortion is reported to happen in Taiwan.\n\n\n"}
