{"id": "4691143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4691143", "title": "Aufruf", "text": "Aufruf\n\nAufruf (Yiddish: אויפרוף \"ofrif\",\"oyfruf, ufruf/ifrif\" or אויפרופן \"ofrifn\"), which in Yiddish means \"calling up\", is the Jewish custom of a groom being called up in the synagogue for an aliyah, the recitation of a blessing over the Torah.\n\nIn the Ashkenazic Jewish community the aufruf ceremony is typically held on the Shabbat before the wedding; but it can also be held on a Monday or Thursday. In modern Hebrew and in the Sephardic and Mizrachi traditions, it is called \"Shabbat Hatan\", the groom's Sabbath, and it is typically held on the Shabbat after the wedding.\n\nAfter the Torah reading, the congregation sings a congratulatory song and the women throw candy at the groom. In non-Orthodox congregations, the bride and groom may be called up to the Torah together. It is customary for the family of the groom to invite the congregation to a festive kiddush after the services.\n\nIn many Ashkenazi Orthodox communities, the bride typically does not attend the aufruf because it is customary for the bride and groom to refrain from seeing each other for one week before the wedding. On the Shabbat preceding the wedding, there is also a custom for bride's family and friends to gather to celebrate the bride and bring her joy. This is called a \"Shabbat Kallah\", the bride's Sabbath.\n\n"}
{"id": "4683060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4683060", "title": "Aztec slavery", "text": "Aztec slavery\n\nAztec slavery, within the structure of the Mexica society, produced many slaves, known by the Nahuatl word, \"tlacotin.\" Within Mexica society, slaves constituted an important class.\n\nSlavery was not a station one was born into, but a state entered into as a form of punishment, out of financial desperation, or as a captive. The practice consisted of two systems: \n\nSlaveowners were required to provide food and shelter for their slaves.\n\nWomen slave owners exerted much in the way of choice, in regard to slaves. For example, if a woman was widowed, it was not uncommon for her to either remarry one of her husband's slaves, or make one one of his slaves her personal steward. The richest merchants in Mexica society were slave traders. Not only were they wealthy, but they were also granted special privileges. They were also considered to be very religious, and played a key role in the festival of Panquetzaliztli festival, in honor of Mexica god, Huitzilopochtli.\n\nAny person not related to a slave's master could be enslaved for trying to \"prevent\" a slave's escape. If one slave was not behave in accordance, he could be sentenced to death.\n\nWhile slavery could not be inherited, in Mexica society, one could, in fact, live indefinitely as a slave. For example, Moctezuma II, in addition to confiscating property, would condemn traitors, or their families, to slavery for life. He would also do the same to astrologers who failed to predict the occurrence of omens.\n\nSlaves were bound to their master's lands, until one's debt was paid to his master. Barring being a captive, being punished for committing a crime, or failing to pay an outstanding gambling debt, slavery was an institution one could enter into freely. In that respect, the system was not slavery, but contractual indentured servitude, resulting in \"unfree labor. However, it was such a widely held practice that the Mexica would often sell their children into slavery.\n\nSlaves wore maguey garments called \"\"cueitl,\" which was a skirt that wrapped around the hips, one end overlapping the other, held together by a belt-like strap. Reflecting their low status in society, the \"cueitl\" of slaves were colorlessness. Typically, upon the death of their owner, slaves who had performed outstanding services were freed, while the rest were passed on as part of the inheritance. As for assigned work, many slaves were sent to the regions of Cimatan and the Acalan, aquatic environments, to work as rowers and as laborers in the cacao groves, which was work that needed to be done year-round.\n\nSlaves were free to marry and make other person decisions. They were also expected to contribute to the betterment of Mexica society. For example, slaves helped move the military's equipment when it set off for battle.\n\nSlavery was most difficult for war captives who, after being captured, could be sold. In addition, they could also be sacrificed at a religious ceremony or festival. For example, slaves were selected to be \"ixiptla\", which is a representation of an god. They believed that the god would, in turn, represent a force of celestial natures such as the wind or the moon, and that through by sacrificing the slave, it would satisfy the god, who would then bring good fortune to the people. And, in the event of a nobleman's death, slaves could be killed, and buried with him, to assist him in the underworld, as they assisted him in life. The body parts of sacrificed slaves could be taken home and eaten with maize and salt as an extension of their sacrifice.\n\nA way for slaves to get their freedom was by running outside the walls, at the marketplace and stepping on a piece of human excrement, then presenting their case to the judges, asking for freedom. If granted, the slaves would then be washed, given new clothes (not owned by the master), and declared free.\n\nSlaves were also frequent faces in the market of Tenochtitlan where they could be sold along with food, cloth, and handmade goods. However, the cities with the most well-known slave markets were Azcapotzalco and Itzocan.\n\nUsually, only wealthy men, or nobles, could often afford slaves. Slaves could be bought for 30 cotton garments called \"quachtli.\" Slaves who could entertain their masters with a talent, such as by singing or dancing, were more expensive, and could cost upwards of 25 percent more.\n\nOrozco y Berra reports that a master could not sell a slave without the slave's consent, unless the slave had been classified as incorrigible by an authority. Incorrigibility could be determined on the basis of repeated laziness, attempts to run away, or general bad conduct. Incorrigible slaves were made to wear a wooden collar, affixed by rings at the back. The collar was not merely a symbol of bad conduct: it was designed to make it harder to run away through a crowd or through narrow spaces.\n\nWhen buying a collared slave, one was informed of how many times that slave had been sold. A slave who was sold three times as incorrigible could be sold to be sacrificed; those slaves commanded a premium in price. However, if a collared slave managed to present him- or herself in the royal palace or in a temple, he or she would regain liberty.\n\nSome slaves gave up their freedom to pay off gambling debts. However, becoming a slave was a process. First, the gambler had to stand before four respected elders. They would then conduct a ceremony whereby the gambler would prefers his want (or need) to become a slave and be given, by his new owner, the price of his freedom, which was often 20 pieces of cloth and the means to live alone for a year before he began his slavery. After the gambler spent that amount, his service would be exchanged for food, shelter and clothing. Anyone could be a slave, though commoners were more likely to enter slavery voluntarily. But, because slaves were looked down upon, it was usually the last option one took to pay off a debt. Beside gamblers, selling oneself into slavery was often a fate for aging courtesans or prostitutes, known among the Mexica as \"ahuini\"\".\n\nIt was believed that those who were born in the 13-day series, starting with 1 Ocelotl, were destined to be slaves, or that their lives would be burdened with something else undesirable.\n\n"}
{"id": "3183401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183401", "title": "Bruce Tuckman", "text": "Bruce Tuckman\n\nBruce Wayne Tuckman (November 24, 1938 - March 13, 2016) carried out research into the theory of group dynamics. In 1965, he published one of his theories called \"Tuckman's stages of group development\". In 1977, he added a fifth stage named Adjourning. According to the Tuckman theory of group development, there are four phases of group development: Forming, Storming, Norming, Performing (and Adjourning, added in 1977). \n\nTuckman was also known for his research on college students' procrastination and development of the Tuckman Procrastination Scale (1991).\n\nHe served as professor of educational psychology at The Ohio State University, where he founded and directed the Walter E. Dennis Learning Center with the mission of providing students of all backgrounds with strategies for college success that enabled them to enter, excel in, and complete programs of postsecondary education. To teach students strategies for succeeding in college, he co-authored the textbook, \"Learning and Motivation Strategies: Your Guide to Success\", with Dennis A. Abry and Dennis R. Smith.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18166327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18166327", "title": "Business acumen", "text": "Business acumen\n\nBusiness acumen (\"Business savvy\" and \"business sense\" are often used as synonyms) is keenness and quickness in understanding and dealing with a \"business situation\" (risks and opportunities) in a manner that is likely to lead to a good outcome. Additionally, business acumen has emerged as a vehicle for improving financial performance and leadership development. Consequently, several different types of strategies have developed around improving business acumen.\n\nIn his 2012 work, \"Seeing the Big Picture, Business Acumen to Build Your Credibility, Career, and Company\", Kevin R. Cope put forward that an individual who possesses business acumen views the business with an \"executive mentality\" - they understand how the moving parts of a company work together to make it successful and how financial metrics like profit margin, cash flow, and stock price reflect how well each of those moving parts is doing its job. Cope proposes that an individual who has the following five abilities could be described as someone having a strong sense of business acumen: \n\nRaymond R. Reilly of the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan and Gregory P. Reilly of the University of Connecticut document traits that individuals with business acumen possess: \nThus, developing stronger business acumen means a more thoughtful analysis, clearer logic underlying business decisions, closer attention to key dimensions of implementation and operation, and more disciplined performance management.\n\nFinancial literacy is a comprehensive understanding of the drivers of growth, profitability, and cash flow; an organization's financial statements; key performance measures; and the implications of decisions on value creation. In a SHRM article entitled, \"Business Acumen Involves More Than Numbers\" Chris Berger, member of human resources at CTPartners, explains that business acumen starts with the ability to understand how a company makes decisions, and that leaders must be financially literate and be able to understand numbers on company financial statements. It entails the ability to take the knowledge of business fundamentals and use it to think strategically and then take appropriate action.\n\nAccording to E. Ted Prince, \"Financial literacy is almost never the need for senior managers and high potentials. Most already possess degrees in business, including MBAs, and many have also had experience in the business sides of their professional roles. The need for these managers is to understand how their actions and their behavior impact their financial decision-making and how this in turn affects financial outcomes at the unit and the corporate level.\" It's evident that an individual with business acumen has some level of financial understanding and knowledge - but someone who is financially literate doesn't necessarily possess strong business acumen.\n\nBob Selden, faculty member of Mobilizing People, a leadership development program based in Switzerland, observes a complementary relationship between business acumen and leadership. Selden states the importance of nurturing both the development of strategic skills and that of good leadership and management skills in order for business leaders to achieve effectiveness.\n\nA study published in Human Resource Management International Digest titled, Business acumen: a critical concern of modern leadership development: Global trends accelerate the move away from traditional approaches, reveals why traditional leadership development approaches, which rely on personality and competency assessments as the scientific core of their approach, are failing. The paper demonstrates the importance of business acumen in leadership-development approaches and contends that business acumen will have an increasing impact on leadership development and HR agendas. Research into this relationship resulted in the creation of the Perth Leadership Outcome Model, which links financial outcomes to individual leadership traits.\n\nIn a study that interviewed 55 global business leaders, business acumen was cited as the most critical competency area for global leaders.\n\nIn their 2011 work, \"The Leadership Pipeline\", Ram Charan, Stephen Drotter, and James Noel study the process and criteria for selecting a group manager, and suggest that the process and criteria are similar for selecting a CEO. According to them an obvious criterium for selecting a leader is well-developed business acumen.\n\nAn organization full of high business acumen individuals can expect to see leaders with a heightened perspective that translates into an ability to inspire and excite the organization to achieve its potential.\n\nPrograms designed to improve an individual or group's business acumen have supported the recognition of the concept as a significant topic in the corporate world. Executive Development Associates' 2009/2010 survey of Chief Learning Officers, Senior Vice Presidents of Human Resources, and Heads of Executive and Leadership Development listed business acumen as the second most significant trend in executive development. A 2011 report explores the impact of business acumen training on an organization in terms of intangibles and more tangible expressions of value. The findings support the notion that business acumen is a learned skill - developed on the job by learning the required skills from knowledge mentors while working in different employment positions. They also suggest that the learning process ranges widely, from structured internal company training programs, to an individual's self-chosen moves from one position to another.\n\nThe combination of these reports and surveys indicate that business acumen is a learned skill of increasing importance within the corporate world. There are different types of business acumen development programs available:\n\nA business simulation is another corporate development tool used to increase business acumen. Several companies offer business simulations as a way to educate mid-level managers and non-financial leaders within their organization on cash flow and financial-decision-making processes. Their forms can vary from computer simulations to boardgame-style simulations.\n\nThe advent of personal assessments for business acumen is based in the emerging theories of behavioral finance and attempts to correlate innate personality traits with positive financial outcomes. This method approaches business acumen not as entirely based in either knowledge or experience, but on the combination of these and other factors which comprise an individual's financial personality or \"signature\". The results from this research have been limited, but noteworthy.\n"}
{"id": "25821227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25821227", "title": "Candle problem", "text": "Candle problem\n\nThe candle problem or candle task, also known as Duncker's candle problem, is a cognitive performance test, measuring the influence of functional fixedness on a participant's problem solving capabilities. The test was created by Gestalt psychologist Karl Duncker and published posthumously in 1945. Duncker originally presented this test in his thesis on problem-solving tasks at Clark University.\n\nThe test presents the participant with the following task: how to fix and light a candle on a wall (a cork board) in a way so the candle wax won't drip onto the table below. To do so, one may only use the following along with the candle:\n\n\nThe solution is to empty the box of thumbtacks, use the thumbtacks to nail the box to the wall, put the candle into the box, and light the candle with the match. The concept of functional fixedness predicts that the participant will only see the box as a device to hold the thumbtacks and not immediately perceive it as a separate and functional component available to be used in solving the task.\n\nMany of the people who attempted the test explored other creative, but less efficient, methods to achieve the goal. For example, some tried to tack the candle to the wall without using the thumbtack box, and others attempted to melt some of the candle’s wax and use it as an adhesive to stick the candle to the wall. Neither method works. However, if the task is presented with the tacks piled \"next\" to the box (rather than inside it), virtually all of the participants were shown to achieve the optimal solution, which is self defined.\n\nThe test has been given to numerous people, including M.B.A. students at the Kellogg School of Management in a study investigating whether living abroad and creativity are linked.\n\nGlucksberg (1962) used a 2 × 2 design manipulating whether the tacks and matches were inside or outside of their boxes and whether subjects were offered cash prizes for completing the task quickly. Subjects who were offered no prize, termed \"low-drive\", were told \"We are doing pilot work on various problems in order to decide which will be the best ones to use in an experiment we plan to do later. We would like to obtain norms on the time needed to solve.\" The remaining subjects, termed \"high-drive\", were told \"Depending on how quickly you solve the problem you can win $5.00 or $20.00. The top 25% of the \"S\"s [subjects] in your group will win $5.00 each; the best will receive $20.00. Time to solve will be the criterion used.\" (As a note, adjusting for inflation since 1962, the study's publish year, the amounts in dollars would be approximately $ and $, respectively.) The empty-boxes condition was found to be easier than the filled-boxes condition: more subjects solved the problem, and those who did solve the problem solved it faster. Within the filled-boxes condition, high-drive subjects performed \"worse\" than low-drive subjects. Glucksberg interpreted this result in terms of \"neobehavioristic drive theory\": \"high drive prolongs extinction of the dominant habit and thus retards the correct habit from gaining ascendancy\". An explanation in terms of the overjustification effect is made difficult by the lack of a main effect for drive and by a nonsignificant trend in the opposite direction within the empty-boxes condition.\n\nAnother way to explain the higher levels of failure during the high-drive condition is that the process of turning the task into a competition for limited resources can create mild levels of stress in the subject, which can lead to a sympathetic nervous system response known as fight-or-flight. This stress response effectively shuts down the creative thinking and problem solving areas of the brain in the prefrontal cortex.\n\nE. Tory Higgins and W. M. Chaires found that having subjects repeat the names of common pairs of objects in this test, but in a different and unaccustomed linguistic structure, such as \"box \"and\" tacks\" instead of \"box \"of\" tacks\", facilitated performance on the candle problem. This phrasing helps one to distinguish the two entities as different and more accessible.\nIn a written version of the task given to people at Stanford University, Michael C. Frank and language acquisition researcher Michael Ramscar reported that simply underlining certain relevant materials (\"\"on the table there is a candle, a box of tacks, and a book of matches\"...\") increases the number of candle-problem solvers from 25% to 50%.\n"}
{"id": "5237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5237", "title": "Catatonia", "text": "Catatonia\n\nCatatonia is a state of psycho-motor immobility and behavioral abnormality manifested by stupor. It was first described in 1874 by Karl Ludwig Kahlbaum, in (\"Catatonia or Tension Insanity\").\n\nThough catatonia has historically been related to schizophrenia (catatonic schizophrenia), it is now known that catatonic symptoms are nonspecific and may be observed in other mental disorders and neurological conditions. In the fifth edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM), catatonia is not recognized as a separate disorder, but is associated with psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia (catatonic type), bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other mental disorders, narcolepsy, as well as drug abuse or overdose (or both). It may also be seen in many medical disorders including infections (such as encephalitis), autoimmune disorders, focal neurologic lesions (including strokes), metabolic disturbances, alcohol withdrawal and abrupt or overly rapid benzodiazepine withdrawal. In the fifth edition of the DSM, it is written that a variety of medical conditions may cause catatonia, especially neurological conditions: encephalitis, cerebrovascular disease, neoplasms, head injury. Moreover, metabolic conditions: homocystinuria, diabetic ketoacidosis, hepatic encephalopathy, hypercalcaemia.\n\nIt can be an adverse reaction to prescribed medication. It bears similarity to conditions such as encephalitis lethargica and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. There are a variety of treatments available; benzodiazepines are a first-line treatment strategy. Electroconvulsive therapy is also sometimes used. There is growing evidence for the effectiveness of NMDA receptor antagonists for benzodiazepine-resistant catatonia. Antipsychotics are sometimes employed but require caution as they can worsen symptoms and have serious adverse effects.\n\nCatatonia can be stuporous or excited. Stuporous catatonia is characterised by immobility during which people may hold rigid poses (stupor), an inability to speak (mutism), as well as waxy flexibility, in which they maintain positions after being placed in them by someone else. Mutism may be partial and they may repeat meaningless phrases or speak only to repeat what someone else says. People with stuporous catatonia may also show stereotyped, repetitive movements (stereotypy). Excited catatonia is characterised by bizarre, non-goal directed hyperactivity and impulsiveness.\n\nCatatonia is a syndrome that can occur in various psychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, schizophreniform disorder, brief psychotic disorder, and substance-induced psychotic disorder. It appears as the Kahlbaum syndrome (motionless catatonia), malignant catatonia (neuroleptic malignant syndrome, toxic serotonin syndrome), and excited forms (delirious mania, catatonic excitement, oneirophrenia). \nIt has also been recognized as grafted on to autism spectrum disorders.\n\nAccording to the DSM-5, \"Catatonia Associated with Another Mental Disorder (Catatonia Specifier)\" (code 293.89 [F06.1]) is diagnosed if the clinical picture is dominated by at least three of the following:\n\n\nOther disorders (used additional code 293.89 [F06.1] to indicate the presence of the comorbid catatonia):\n\nIf catatonic symptoms are present but they don't form the catatonic syndrome, a medication-induced or substance-induced aetiology should first be considered.\n\n\nFink and Taylor developed a catatonia rating scale to identify the syndrome. A diagnosis is verified by a benzodiazepine or barbiturate test. The diagnosis is validated by the quick response to either benzodiazepines or electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). While proven useful in the past, barbiturates are no longer commonly used in psychiatry; thus the option of either benzodiazepines or ECT.\n\nInitial treatment is aimed at providing symptomatic relief. Benzodiazepines are the first line of treatment, and high doses are often required. A test dose of intramuscular lorazepam will often result in marked improvement within half an hour. In France, zolpidem has also been used in diagnosis, and response may occur within the same time period. Ultimately the underlying cause needs to be treated.\n\nElectroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective treatment for catatonia, however, it has been pointed out that further high quality Randomized controlled trials are needed to evaluate the efficacy, tolerance, and protocols of ECT in catatonia.\n\nAntipsychotics should be used with care as they can worsen catatonia and are the cause of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a dangerous condition that can mimic catatonia and requires immediate discontinuation of the antipsychotic.\n\nExcessive glutamate activity is believed to be involved in catatonia; when first-line treatment options fail, NMDA antagonists such as amantadine or memantine are used. Amantadine may have an increased incidence of tolerance with prolonged use and can cause psychosis, due to its additional effects on the dopamine system. Memantine has a more targeted pharmacological profile for the glutamate system, reduced incidence of psychosis and may therefore be preferred for individuals who cannot tolerate amantadine. Topiramate is another treatment option for resistant catatonia; it produces its therapeutic effects by producing glutamate antagonism via modulation of AMPA receptors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11160360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11160360", "title": "Chi Mak", "text": "Chi Mak\n\nChi Mak (; born 28 September 1940) is a Chinese-born naturalized American citizen who worked as an engineer for California-based defense contractor Power Paragon, a part of L-3 Communications. In 2007, Mak was found guilty of conspiring to export sensitive defense technology to China.\n\nMak's defense was that he thought there was nothing improper about allowing the papers on U.S. defense technology to leave the U.S., despite his training from his employer indicating quite the opposite. He had intentionally released it without his employer's permission at a 2004 international engineering conference. He had been briefed every year on regulations regarding documents designated \"For Official Use Only\" (FOUO) and items restricted by export controls. His defense argued that making the data accessible to scrutiny by the general public negated its military value and made it acceptable to transport outside the United States, despite the fact that Chi Mak was the one who released the information without authorization. The defense also argued that the data was in the public domain. However, once again this was due to Chi Mak's unauthorized release of it.\n\nThe prosecution indicated that the data was nevertheless export-controlled and that it should not have been shared with foreign nationals without authorization. The IEEE presentations cited by prosecution in the trial are currently available on a worldwide basis, due to Chi Mak's unauthorized releases.\n\nMak's brother and sister-in-law were apprehended by the FBI after boarding a flight to Hong Kong carrying one encrypted CD which contained defense-related documents. They, along with their son as well as Mak's wife, all pleaded guilty to related charges.\n\nOn March 24, 2008, he was sentenced to 24 years and 4 months in federal prison.\n\nMak lived in Hong Kong before, in the late 1970s, moving to the U.S. as an immigrant.\n\n"}
{"id": "48505834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48505834", "title": "Crowdfunding", "text": "Crowdfunding\n\nCrowdfunding is the practice of funding a project or venture by raising small amounts of money from a large number of people, typically via the Internet. Crowdfunding is a form of crowdsourcing and alternative finance. In 2015, a worldwide estimate totaling over was raised by crowdfunding.\n\nAlthough similar concepts can also be executed through mail-order subscriptions, benefit events, and other methods, the term crowdfunding refers to Internet-mediated registries. This modern crowdfunding model is generally based on three types of actors: the project initiator who proposes the idea or project to be funded, individuals or groups who support the idea, and a moderating organization (the \"platform\") that brings the parties together to launch the idea.\n\nCrowdfunding has been used to fund a wide range of for-profit, entrepreneurial ventures such as artistic and creative projects, medical expenses, travel, or community-oriented social entrepreneurship projects.\n\nCrowdfunding has a long history with several roots. Books have been crowdfunded for centuries: authors and publishers would advertise book projects in praenumeration or subscription schemes. The book would be written and published if enough subscribers signaled their readiness to buy the book once it was out. The subscription business model is not exactly crowdfunding, since the actual flow of money only begins with the arrival of the product. The list of subscribers has, though, the power to create the necessary confidence among investors that is needed to risk the publication.\n\nWar bonds are theoretically a form of crowdfunding military conflicts. London's mercantile community saved the Bank of England in the 1730s when customers demanded their pounds to be converted into gold - they supported the currency until confidence in the pound was restored, thus crowdfunded their own money. A clearer case of modern crowdfunding is Auguste Comte's scheme to issue notes for the public support of his further work as a philosopher. The \"Première Circulaire Annuelle adressée par l'auteur du \"Système de Philosophie Positive\"\" was published on 14 March 1850, and several of these notes, blank and with sums have survived. The cooperative movement of the 19th and 20th centuries is a broader precursor. It generated collective groups, such as community or interest-based groups, pooling subscribed funds to develop new concepts, products, and means of distribution and production, particularly in rural areas of Western Europe and North America. In 1885, when government sources failed to provide funding to build a monumental base for the Statue of Liberty, a newspaper-led campaign attracted small donations from 160,000 donors.\n\nCrowdfunding on the internet first gained popular and mainstream use in the arts and music communities. The first noteworthy instance of online crowdfunding in the music industry was in 1997, when fans underwrote an entire U.S. tour for the British rock band Marillion, raising US$60,000 in donations by means of a fan-based Internet campaign. They subsequently used this method to fund their studio albums. In the film industry, independent writer/director Mark Tapio Kines designed a website in 1997 for his then-unfinished first feature film \"Foreign Correspondents\". By early 1999, he had raised more than US$125,000 on the Internet from at least 25 fans, providing him with the funds to complete his film. In 2002, the \"Free Blender\" campaign was an early software crowdfunding precursor. The campaign aimed for open-sourcing the Blender 3D computer graphics software by collecting $100,000 from the community while offering additional benefits for donating members.\n\nCrowdfunding started to gain mainstream traction with the launch of ArtistShare (2003). As the model matured, more crowdfunding sites started to appear on the web such as Kiva (2005), IndieGoGo (2008), Kickstarter (2009), GoFundMe (2010), Microventures (2010), and YouCaring (2011).\n\nThe phenomenon of crowdfunding is older than the term \"crowdfunding\". According to wordspy.com, the earliest recorded use of the word was in August 2006.\n\nThe Crowdfunding Centre's May 2014 report identified two primary types of crowdfunding:\n\nReward-based crowdfunding has been used for a wide range of purposes, including motion picture promotion, free software development, inventions development, scientific research, and civic projects.\n\nMany characteristics of rewards-based crowdfunding, also called non-equity crowdfunding, have been identified by research studies. In rewards-based crowdfunding, funding does not rely on location. The distance between creators and investors on Sellaband was about 3,000 miles when the platform introduced royalty sharing. The funding for these projects is distributed unevenly, with a few projects accounting for the majority of overall funding. Additionally, funding increases as a project nears its goal, encouraging what is called \"herding behavior\". Research also shows that friends and family account for a large, or even majority, portion of early fundraising. This capital may encourage subsequent funders to invest in the project. While funding does not depend on location, observation shows that funding is largely tied to the locations of traditional financing options. In reward-based crowdfunding, funders are often too hopeful about project returns and must revise expectations when returns are not met.\n\nEquity crowdfunding is the collective effort of individuals to support efforts initiated by other people or organizations through the provision of finance in the form of equity. In the United States, legislation that is mentioned in the 2012 JOBS Act will allow for a wider pool of small investors with fewer restrictions following the implementation of the act. Unlike nonequity crowdfunding, equity crowdfunding contains heightened \"information asymmetries\". The creator must not only produce the product for which they are raising capital, but also create equity through the construction of a company. Equity crowdfunding, unlike donation and rewards-based crowdfunding, involves the offer of securities which include the potential for a return on investment. Syndicates, which involve many investors following the strategy of a single lead investor, can be effective in reducing information asymmetry and in avoiding the outcome of market failure associated with equity crowdfunding.\n\nAnother kind of crowdfunding is to raise funds for a project where a digital or software-based value token is offered as a reward to funders which is known as Initial coin offering (abbreviated to ICO). Value tokens are endogenously created by particular open decentralized networks that are used to incentivize client computers of the network to expend scarce computer resources on maintaining the protocol network. These value tokens may or may not exist at the time of the crowdsale, and may require substantial development effort and eventual software release before the token is live and establishes a market value. Although funds may be raised simply for the value token itself, funds raised on blockchain-based crowdfunding can also represent equity, bonds, or even \"market-maker seats of governance\" for the entity being funded. Examples of such crowdsales are Augur decentralized, distributed prediction market software which raised from more than 3500 participants; Ethereum blockchain; Digix/DigixDAO;\nand \"\"The DAO\".\"\nSome of the largest crowdsales using tokens in 2017 were Tezos which raised , Bancor which raised and Status which raised .\n\nDebt-based crowdfunding (also known as \"peer to peer\", \"P2P\", \"marketplace lending\", or \"crowdlending\") arose with the founding of Zopa in the UK in 2005 and in the US in 2006, with the launches of Lending Club and Prosper.com. Borrowers apply online, generally for free, and their application is reviewed and verified by an automated system, which also determines the borrower's credit risk and interest rate. Investors buy securities in a fund which makes the loans to individual borrowers or bundles of borrowers. Investors make money from interest on the unsecured loans; the system operators make money by taking a percentage of the loan and a loan servicing fee. In 2009, institutional investors entered the P2P lending arena; for example in 2013, Google invested $125 million in Lending Club. In 2014 in the US, P2P lending totalled about $5 billion. In 2014 in the UK, P2P platforms lent businesses £749 million, a growth of 250% from 2012 to 2014, and lent retail customers £547 million, a growth of 108% from 2012 to 2014. In both countries in 2014, about 75% of all the money transferred through crowdfunding went through P2P platforms. Lending Club went public in December 2014 at a valuation around $9 billion.\nDebt crowdfunding in the U.S. further evolved with the 2016 enactment of Title III of the JOBS Act, which allows unaccredited investors to invest directly in private businesses through regulated Funding Portals or Broker-Dealers.\n\nLitigation crowdfunding allows plaintiffs or defendants to reach out to hundreds of their peers simultaneously in a semiprivate and confidential manner to obtain funding, either seeking donations or providing a reward in return for funding. It also allows investors to purchase a stake in a claim they have funded, which may allow them to get back more than their investment if the case succeeds (the reward is based on the compensation received by the litigant at the end of his or her case, known as a contingent fee in the United States, a success fee in the United Kingdom, or a \"pactum de quota litis\" in many civil law systems). LexShares is a platform that allows accredited investors to invest in lawsuits.\n\nRunning alongside reward-based crowdfunding, donation-based is second as the most commonly used form of crowdfunding. Charity donation-based crowdfunding is the collective effort of individuals to help charitable causes. In charity crowdfunding, funds are raised for pro-social or pro-environmental purposes. Donors come together to create an online community around a common cause to help fund services and programs to combat issues. The major aspect of donor-based is that there is no reward for donating, rather it is based on the donor's altruistic reasoning.\n\nThe inputs of the individuals in the crowd trigger the crowdfunding process and influence the ultimate value of the offerings or outcomes of the process. Each individual acts as an agent of the offering, selecting and promoting the projects in which they believe. They sometimes play a donor role oriented towards providing help on social projects. In some cases, they become shareholders and contribute to the development and growth of the offering. Individuals disseminate information about projects they support in their online communities, generating further support (promoters). Motivation for consumer participation stems from the feeling of being at least partly responsible for the success of others' initiatives (desire for patronage), striving to be a part of a communal social initiative (desire for social participation), and seeking a payoff from monetary contributions (desire for investment). Additionally, individuals participate in crowdfunding to see new and innovative products before the public. Early access often allows funders to participate more directly in the development of the product. Crowdfunding is also particularly attractive to funders who are family and friends of a creator. It helps to mediate the terms of their financial agreement and manage each group's expectations for the project.\n\nAn individual who takes part in crowdfunding initiatives tends to reveal several distinct traits: innovative orientation, which stimulates the desire to try new modes of interacting with firms and other consumers; social identification with the content, cause or project selected for funding, which sparks the desire to be a part of the initiative; (monetary) exploitation, which motivates the individual to participate by expecting a payoff. Crowdfunding platforms are motivated to generate income by drawing worthwhile projects and generous funders. These sites also seek widespread public attention for their projects and platform.\n\nCrowdfunding websites helped companies and individuals worldwide raise US$89 million from members of the public in 2010, $1.47 billion in 2011, and $2.66 billion in 2012 — $1.6 billion of the 2012 amount was raised in North America.\nIn 2012, more than one million individual campaigns were established globally and the industry was projected to grow to US$5.1 billion in 2013. and to reach US$1 trillion in 2025. A May 2014 report, released by the United Kingdom-based The Crowdfunding Centre and titled \"The State of the Crowdfunding Nation\", presented data showing that during March 2014, more than US$60,000 were raised on an hourly basis via global crowdfunding initiatives. Also during this period, 442 crowdfunding campaigns were launched globally on a daily basis.\n\nIn 2012, there were over 450 crowdfunding platforms operating. In 2015 it was predicted that there would be over 2,000 crowdfunding sites to choose from in 2016. Project creators need to exercise their own due diligence to understand which platform is the best to use depending on the type of project that they want to launch.\nFundamental differences exist in the services provided by many crowdfunding platforms. For instance, CrowdCube and Seedrs are Internet platforms which enable small companies to issue shares over the Internet and receive small investments from registered users in return. While CrowdCube is meant for users to invest small amounts and acquire shares directly in start-up companies, Seedrs pools the funds to invest in new businesses, as a nominated agent.\n\nCurated crowdfunding platforms serve as \"network orchestrators\" by curating the offerings that are allowed on the platform. They create the necessary organizational systems and conditions for resource integration among other players to take place. Relational mediators act as an intermediary between supply and demand. They replace traditional intermediaries (such as traditional record companies, venture capitalists). These platforms link new artists, designers, project initiators with committed supporters who believe in the persons behind the projects strongly enough to provide monetary support. Growth engines focus on the strong inclusion of investors. They \"disintermediate\" by eliminating the activity of a service provider previously involved in the network. The platforms that use crowdfunding to seek stakes from a community of high net-worth private investors and match them directly with project initiators.\n\nThe Professional Contractors Group, a trade body representing freelancers in the UK, raised £100,000 over a two-week period in 1999 from some 2000 freelancers threatened by a Government measure known as IR35. In 2004, Electric Eel Shock, a Japanese rock band, raised £10,000 from 100 fans (the Samurai 100) by offering them a lifetime membership on the band's guestlist. Two years later, they became the fastest band to raise a US$50,000 budget on SellaBand.\nFranny Armstrong later created a donation system for her feature film \"The Age of Stupid\". Over five years, from June 2004 to June 2009 (release date), she raised £1,500,000. In December 2004, French entrepreneurs and producers and , launched a public Internet donation campaign to fund their short science fiction film, \"Demain la Veille (Waiting for Yesterday)\". Within a month, they managed to raise €17,000 online, allowing them to shoot their film.\n\nAs of 2015 the highest reported funding by a crowdfunded project to date was \"Star Citizen\", an online space trading and combat video game being developed by Chris Roberts and Cloud Imperium Games; it had raised $77M by that time, and while it had a devoted fan base it was also criticized for being a potential scam.\n\nBrave's $35 million Basic Attention Token (BAT) sale sold out in less than 30 seconds.\n\nOn April 17, 2014, the \"Guardian\" media outlet published a list of \"20 of the most significant projects\" launched on the Kickstarter platform prior to the date of publication:\n\n\nCrowdfunding is being explored as a potential funding mechanism for creative work such as blogging and journalism, music, independent film (see crowdfunded film), and for funding startup companies. Community music labels are usually for-profit organizations where \"fans assume the traditional financier role of a record label for artists they believe in by funding the recording process\". Since pioneering crowdfunding in the film industry, Spanner Films has published a \"how to\" guide. A \"Financialist\" article published in mid-September 2013 stated that \"the niche for crowdfunding exists in financing films with budgets in the [US]$1 to $10 million range\" and crowdfunding campaigns are \"much more likely to be successful if they tap into a significant pre-existing fan base and fulfill an existing gap in the market.\" Innovative new platforms, such as RocketHub, have emerged that combine traditional funding for creative work with branded crowdsourcing—helping artists and entrepreneurs unite with brands \"without the need for a middle man.\"\n\nSeveral crowdfunding platforms have emerged that allow people to donate or invest in food- and agriculture-related opportunities. AgFunder is one global platform that gives both individual and institutional investors access to venture capital investments, both in agriculture technology and food technology companies. Cropital has developed a platform to allow investors to invest in small-holder farmers, and rewards-based platforms like Barnraiser allow users to support farmers and food startups.\n\nThe crowdfunding platform PieShell was launched in 2016 to focus exclusively on food and beverage campaigns.\n\nA variety of crowdfunding platforms have emerged to allow ordinary web users to support specific philanthropic projects without the need for large amounts of money. GlobalGiving allows individuals to browse through a selection of small projects proposed by nonprofit organizations worldwide, donating funds to projects of their choice. Microcredit crowdfunding platforms such as Kiva (organization) facilitate crowdfunding of loans managed by microcredit organizations in developing countries. The US-based nonprofit Zidisha applies a direct person-to-person lending model to microcredit lending for low-income small business owners in developing countries.\n\nDonorsChoose.org, founded in 2000, allows public school teachers in the United States to request materials for their classrooms. Individuals can lend money to teacher-proposed projects, and the organization fulfills and delivers supplies to schools. There are also a number of own-branded university crowdfunding websites, which enable students and staff to create projects and receive funding from alumni of the university or the general public. Several dedicated civic crowdfunding platforms have emerged in the US and the UK, some of which have led to the first direct involvement of governments in crowdfunding. In the UK, Spacehive is used by the Mayor of London and Manchester City Council to co-fund civic projects created by citizens. Similarly, dedicated humanitarian crowdfunding initiatives are emerging, involving humanitarian organizations, volunteers and supports in solving and modeling how to build innovative crowdfunding solutions for the humanitarian community. Likewise, international organizations like the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) have been researching and publishing about the topic.\n\nOne crowdfunding project, iCancer, was used to support a Phase 1 trial of AdVince, an anti-cancer drug in 2016.\n\nReal estate crowdfunding is the online pooling of capital from investors to fund mortgages secured by real estate, such as \"fix and flip\" redevelopment of distressed or abandoned properties, equity for commercial and residential projects, acquisition of pools of distressed mortgages, home buyer downpayments and similar real estate related outlets. Investment, via specialised online platforms in the US, is generally completed under Title II of the JOBS Act and is limited to accredited investors. The platforms offer low minimum investments, often $100 – $10,000. There are over 75 real estate crowdfunding platforms in the United States. The growth of real estate crowdfunding is a global tendency. During 2014 and 2015, more than 150 platforms have been created throughout the world, such as in China, the Middle East, or France. In Europe, some compare this growing industry to that of e-commerce ten years ago.\n\nIn Europe the requirements towards investors are not as high as in the United States, lowering the entry barrier into the real estate investments in general. Real estate crowdfunding can include various project types from commercial to residential developments, planning gain opportunities, build to hold (such as social housing) and many more. The report from Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance addresses both real estate crowdfunding and \"peer 2 peer\" lending (property) in the UK.\n\nOne of the challenges of posting new ideas on crowdfunding sites is there may be little or no intellectual property (IP) protection provided by the sites themselves. Once an idea is posted, it can be copied. As Slava Rubin, founder of IndieGoGo, said: \"We get asked that all the time, 'How do you protect me from someone stealing my idea?' We're not liable for any of that stuff.\" Inventor advocates, such as Simon Brown, founder of the UK-based United Innovation Association, counsel that ideas can be protected on crowdfunding sites through early filing of patent applications, use of copyright and trademark protection as well as a new form of idea protection supported by the World Intellectual Property Organization called Creative Barcode.\n\nA number of platforms have also emerged that specialize in the crowdfunding of scientific projects, such as experiment.com, and The Open Source Science Project. In the scientific community, these new options for research funding are seen ambivalently. Advocates of crowdfunding for science emphasize that it allows early-career scientists to apply for their own projects early on, that it forces scientists to communicate clearly and comprehensively to a broader public, that it may alleviate problems of the established funding systems which are seen to fund conventional, mainstream projects, and that it gives the public a say in science funding. In turn, critics are worried about quality control on crowdfunding platforms. If non-scientists were allowed to make funding decisions, it would be more likely that \"panda bear science\" is funded, i.e. research with broad appeal but lacking scientific substance. Initial studies found that crowdfunding is used within science, mostly by young researchers to fund small parts of their projects, and with high success rates. At the same time, funding success seems to be strongly influenced by non-scientific factors like humor, visualizations, or the ease and security of payment.\nIn order to fund online and print publications, journalists are enlisting the help of crowdfunding. Crowdfunding allows for small start-ups and individual journalists to fund their work without the institutional help of major public broadcasters. Stories are publicly pitched using crowdfunding platforms such as Kickstarter, Indiegogo, or Spot.us. The funds collected from crowdsourcing may be put toward travel expenses or purchasing equipment. Crowdfunding in journalism may also be viewed as a way to allow audiences to participate in news production and in creating a participatory culture. Though deciding which stories are published is a role that traditionally belongs to editors at more established publications, crowdfunding can give the public an opportunity to provide input in deciding which stories are reported. This is done by funding certain reporters and their pitches. Donating can be seen as an act that \"bonds\" reporters and their readers. This is because readers are expressing interest for their work, which can be \"personally motivating\" or \"gratifying\" for reporters.\n\nSpot.us, which was closed in February 2015, was a crowdfunding platform that was specifically meant for journalism. The website allowed for readers, individual donors, registered Spot.us reporters, or news organizations to fund or donate talent toward a pitch of their choosing. While funders are not normally involved in editorial control, Spot.us allowed for donors or \"community members\" to become involved with the co-creation of a story. This gave them the ability to edit articles, submit photographs, or share leads and information. According to an analysis by Public Insight Network, Spot.us was not sustainable for various reasons. Many contributors were not returning donors and often, projects were funded by family and friends. The overall market for crowdfunding journalism may also be a factor; donations for journalism projects accounted for .13 percent of the $2.8 billion that was raised in 2013.\n\nLarger crowdfunding platforms such as Indiegogo or Kickstarter, both of which are not journalism-specific, may garner more success for projects. This is because these large-scale platforms can allow journalists to reach new audiences. In 2017, 2.3 million out of Kickstarter's 7.9 million users had donated toward more than one project.\n\nTraditionally, journalists are not involved in advertising and marketing. Crowdfunding means that journalists are attracting funders while trying to remain independent, which may pose a conflict. Therefore, being directly involved with financial aspects can call journalistic integrity and journalistic objectivity into question. This is also due to the fact that journalists may feel some pressure or \"a sense of responsibility\" toward funders who support a particular project. Crowdfunding can also allow for a blurred line between professional and non-professional journalism because if enough interest is generated, anyone may have their work published.\n\nThere is some hope that crowdfunding has potential as a tool open for use by groups of people traditionally more marginalized. The World Bank published a report titled \"Crowdfunding's potential for the Developing World\" which states that \"While crowdfunding is still largely a developed world phenomenon, with the support of governments and development organizations it could become a useful tool in the developing world as well. Substantial reservoirs of entrepreneurial talent, activity, and capital lay dormant in many emerging economies...Crowdfunding and crowdfund investing have several important roles to play in the developing world's entrepreneurial and venture finance ecosystem.\"\n\nAs the popularity of crowdfunding expanded, the SEC, state governments, and Congress responded by enacting and refining many capital-raising exemptions to allow easier access to alternative funding sources. Initially, the Securities Act of 1933 banned companies from soliciting capital from the general public for private offerings. However, \"President Obama signed the Jumpstart Our Small Businesses Act (\"JOBS Act\") into law on April 5, 2012, which removed the ban on general solicitation activities for issuers qualifying under a new exemption called 'Rule 506(c).'\" A company can now broadly solicit and generally advertise an offering and still be compliant with the exemption's requirements if:\nAnother change was the amendment of SEC Rule 147. Section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Act allows for unlimited capital raising from investors in a single state through an intrastate exemption. However, the SEC created Rule 147 with a number of requirements to ensure compliance. For example, intrastate solicitation was allowed, but a single out-of-state offer could destroy the exemption. Additionally, the issuer was required to be incorporated and do business in the same state of the intrastate offering. With the expansion of interstate business activities because of the internet, it became difficult for businesses to comply with the exemption. Therefore, on October 26, 2016 the SEC adopted Rule 147(a) which removed many of the restrictions to modernize the Rules. For example, companies would have to do business and have its principal place of business in the state where the offering is sold, and not necessarily where \"offered\" per the prior rule.\n\nCrowdfunding campaigns provide producers with a number of benefits, beyond the strict financial gains. The following are non financial benefits of crowdfunding.\n\nThere are also financial benefits to the creator. For one, crowdfunding allows creators to attain low-cost capital. Traditionally, a creator would need to look at \"personal savings, home equity loans, personal credit cards, friends and family members, angel investors, and venture capitalists.\" With crowdfunding, creators can find funders from around the world, sell both their product and equity, and benefit from increased information flow. Additionally, crowdfunding that supports pre-buying allows creators to obtain early feedback on the product. Proponents of the crowdfunding approach argue that it allows good ideas which do not fit the pattern required by conventional financiers to break through and attract cash through the wisdom of the crowd. If it does achieve \"traction\" in this way, not only can the enterprise secure seed funding to begin its project, but it may also secure evidence of backing from potential customers and benefit from word of mouth promotion in order to reach the fundraising goal. Another potential positive effect is the propensity of groups to \"produce an accurate aggregate prediction\" about market outcomes as identified by author James Surowiecki in his book \"The Wisdom of Crowds\", thereby placing financial backing behind ventures likely to succeed.\n\nProponents also identify a potential outcome of crowdfunding as an exponential increase in available venture capital. One report claims that If every American family gave one percent of their investable assets to crowdfunding, $300 billion (a 10X increase) would come into venture capital. Proponents also cite that a benefit for companies receiving crowdfunding support is that they retain control of their operations, as voting rights are not conveyed along with ownership when crowdfunding. As part of his response to the Amanda Palmer Kickstarter controversy, Albini expressed his supportive views of crowdfunding for musicians, explaining: \"I've said many times that I think they're part of the new way bands and their audience interact and they can be a fantastic resource, enabling bands to do things essentially in cooperation with their audience.\" Albini described the concept of crowdfunding as \"pretty amazing.\"\n\nCrowdfunding also comes with a number of potential risks or barriers. For the creator, as well as the investor, studies show that crowdfunding contains \"high levels of risk, uncertainty, and information asymmetry.\"\n\nFor crowdfunding of equity stock purchases, there is some research in social psychology that indicates that, like in all investments, people don't always do their due diligence to determine if it's a sound investment before investing, which leads to making investment decisions based on emotion rather than financial logic. By using crowdfunding, creators also forgo potential support and value that a single angel investor or venture capitalist might offer. Likewise, crowdfunding requires that creators manage their investors. This can be time-consuming and financially burdensome as the number of investors in the crowd rises. Crowdfunding draws a crowd: investors and other interested observers who follow the progress, or lack of progress, of a project. Sometimes it proves easier to raise the money for a project than to make the project a success. Managing communications with a large number of possibly disappointed investors and supporters can be a substantial, and potentially diverting, task.\n\nSome of the most popular fundraisings are for commercial companies which use the process to reach customers and at the same time market their products and services. This favors companies like microbreweries and specialist restaurants – in effect creating a \"club\" of people who are customers as well as investors. In the USA in 2015, new rules from the SEC to regulate equity crowdfunding will mean that larger businesses with more than 500 investors and more than $25 million in assets will have to file reports like a public company. The \"Wall Street Journal\" commented: \"It is all the pain of an IPO without the benefits of the IPO.\" These two trends may mean crowdfunding is most suited to small consumer-facing companies rather than tech start-ups.\n\nThere are several ways in which a well-regulated crowdfunding platform can provide attractive returns for investors:\n\nOn crowdfunding platforms, the problem of information asymmetry is exacerbated due to the reduced ability of the investor to conduct due diligence. Early stage investing is typically localized, as the costs of conducting due diligence before making investment decisions and the costs of monitoring after investing both rises with distance. However, this trend is not observed on crowdfunding platforms - these platforms are not geographically constrained and bring in investors from near and far. On non-equity or reward-based platforms, investors try to mitigate this risk by using the amount of capital raised as a signal of performance or quality. On equity-based platforms, crowdfunding syndicates reduce information asymmetry through dual channels – through portfolio diversification and better due diligence as in the case of offline early-stage investing, but also by allowing \"lead investors\" with more information and better networks to lead \"crowds\" of backers to make investment decisions.\n\n\nStudies and Papers\nPress\n"}
{"id": "45220412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45220412", "title": "Dar al-Bashair", "text": "Dar al-Bashair\n\nDar al-Bashair is a royal palace located in the Bir al-Azab district of Sana'a, Yemen.\n\nIt was the residence of King Muhammad al-Badr. On September 26, 1962, the commander of the royal guard Abdullah al-Sallal in an act of state treason staged a coup and had the palace shelled.\n\n"}
{"id": "3275333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275333", "title": "De Situ Albanie", "text": "De Situ Albanie\n\nDe Situ Albanie (or \"dSA\" for short) is the name given to the first of seven Scottish documents found in the so-called Poppleton Manuscript, now in the Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris. It was probably written sometime between 1202 and 1214, in the reign of the William the Lion, by a French-speaking resident of Scotland (north of the Forth), as an introduction to the compilation. \n\nThe title is taken from the opening words of the piece, which reads: \n\n\"De Situ Albanie que in se figuram hominis habet quomodo fuit primitus is septem regionibus diuisa quibusque nominibus antiquitus sit uocata et a quibus inhabitata\"\n\nThe piece proceeds to carry out the purpose highlighted in the introduction. It recounts that Albanectus, son of Brutus, had seven sons; and that, on his death, the kingdom was split into 7 parts, each one corresponding to a son. The writer lists the seven ancient kingdoms/sons of Albania/Albanectus. \n\nLIST ONE (or DSa)\n\n\nThe author then tells us that Andrew, Bishop of Caithness, related another list. This list contradicts the first, as when, for instance, the seventh kingdom in Andreas' list is Argyll rather than Caithness. \n\nLIST TWO (or DSb)\n\n\nThe author shows no awareness that the two lists contradict each other. Since the author was probably a Scotto-Norman, this should not surprise us. There have been suggestions that the first list corresponds to a list of Bishoprics, leaving the second as more authentic. What is certain is that the medieval Scots did have legends of seven ancient kingdoms.\n\nThe author's motive for writing the dSA and compiling the Scottish Poppleton remain unknown, although he probably can be seen in the tradition of Geoffrey of Monmouth. In the past, the dSA was regarded as an anachronism, and hence as a window on the Gaelic or Pictish past. It has frequently been used as a source for the so-called \"seven ancient Kingdoms of Pictland\". It was thought that, for instance, the first list represented the ninth century when Argyll was in Pictland, while the second list represented the period before that, before Argyll was taken, and before Caithness was lost. \n\nHowever, this conception of the document has been discredited in recent years. Firstly by Isabel Henderson, and more recently by the Glasgow University-based medievalist Prof. Dauvit Broun. Most likely, the document has little if nothing at all to do with the Picts. \n\nThe document in fact makes perfect sense in the early thirteenth century, and much of his information can actually be traced to the other Scottish documents in the Poppleton MS. For instance, the names of seven sons of Cruithne (=Albanactus?) are given in the Pictish kinglist that follows one document after the dSA. (There is another source for the seven kingdoms myth, in a Gaelic quatrain contained in versions of the Lebor Bretnach). Pictland probably had no such structure, and if it did, it was unknown to the author of dSA, except perhaps through Bishop Andreas. \n\nOther matters of interest are the man-simile, the linguistic discussions, and the light the document sheds on the relationship between the Gaelic language (\"Scottica\") and Scottish national identity. On matters such as these, the dSA is in fact a wonderfully useful historical document. David Howlett has recently put a case forward that the structure of the text is based on a biblical paradigm.\n\n"}
{"id": "20651278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20651278", "title": "Denis L. Feron", "text": "Denis L. Feron\n\nDenis Lucien Emile Feron (born March 22, 1928) is former owner and Chief Executive Officer of the Midwestern copper smelter, Chemetco. He was born in Sint-Pieters-Woluwe, Belgium.\n\nFeron competed in the 1952 Winter Olympics and in the 1956 Winter Olympics in alpine skiing. In 1952 he finished 63rd in the downhill event, 73rd in the giant slalom competition, 46th in the slalom contest but was eliminated in the first run. Four years later he finished 38th in the 1956 downhill event, 46th in the slalom competition, and 65th in the giant slalom contest. His older brother Michel competed in the 1948 and 1952 Winter Games, also in alpine skiing.\n\nOn April 21, 1999, a federal grand jury charged Chemetco Inc., Feron, and five of his employees with violating the United States Clean Water Act for using an illegal secret discharge pipe to deliberately pump hazardous waste water contaminated with various pollutants and industrial waste including cadmium, lead and zinc into Long Lake (Illinois), a tributary of the Mississippi River. Those named in the indictment were: Chemetco President Denis L. Feron, Gary Reed, George Boud Jr., Roger Copeland, Kevin Youngman, and Chemetco plant manager Bruce Hendrickson. Before filing for bankruptcy in 2001, Chemetco produced about 50% of the United States copper output from non-mined sources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36507312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36507312", "title": "Direcção Nacional de Estatística", "text": "Direcção Nacional de Estatística\n\nDirecção Nacional de Estatística (Portuguese for National Directorate of Statistics) or DNE is the national bureau for statistics of East Timor. The organization, a state department under the Directorate-General of Analysis and Research of the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for compiling and disseminating data on the people, society, economy and environment of the nation and the national censuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "31153489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31153489", "title": "Disability in Sierra Leone", "text": "Disability in Sierra Leone\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, an estimated 15% of the world’s population experience some form of disability or impairment. The proportion of disabled people is much higher in Sierra Leone, a West African country which had emerged from a decade-long civil war back in 2002 where the trademark of the rebel groups was to hack off the limbs of civilians. \n\nIt is estimated that there are about 450,000 disabled people in Sierra Leone, although this number may be an under-representation. Common disability issues include blindness, deafness, war wounded including amputees, and polio.\n\nIn a 2009 study of disability in Sierra Leone, one third of the disabled people surveyed were employed while twice as many disabled people (16.4%) had no access to healthcare as compared to non-disabled people (7.1%). In addition, according to the United Nations Development Programme, only 35% of Sierra Leone’s population above 15 years of age is educated and the statistic is even lower for citizens with disabilities. Poor people are also more at risk of acquiring a disability due to a lack of access to sanitation as well as a safe living and working environment.\n\nMental healthcare in Sierra Leone is almost non-existent. Many sufferers try to cure themselves with the help of traditional healers. During the Civil War (1991–2002), many soldiers took part in atrocities and many children were forced to fight. This left them traumatised, with an estimated 400,000 people (by 2009) being mentally ill. Thousands of former child soldiers have fallen into substance abuse as they try to blunt their memories. \n\nThe government of Sierra Leone does not provide any assistance to disabled citizens. In 2010, Bentry Kalanga, the senior programme manager of Africa for SOS Children's Villages, an international charity organization, said; “Disability has not been regarded as a major development issue up to now and it must be highlighted more.”\n\nIn its 2011 report, the Human Rights Commission of Sierra Leone noted approvingly the passage in that year of the Persons with Disabilities Act 2011, which “would address the human rights concerns of Persons With Disability,” but added “that this Act has not been popularized and not much has been done to implement it, particularly the establishment of the National Commission for Persons with Disability.”\n"}
{"id": "530917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530917", "title": "Etoy", "text": "Etoy\n\nEtoy is a European digital art group formed in 1994. It has won several international awards including the Prix Ars Electronica in 1996. Their main slogan is: \"leaving reality behind.\"\n\nEtoy has routinely experimented with the boundaries of art, such as selling shares of \"stock\" in the etoy.corporation, a registered company in Switzerland and travelling the world as well as living in \"etoy.tanks\" (cargo containers).\n\nThe group first used the name \"etoy\" in 1994, for performances at raves and techno music events. The group's members, based in various European countries, were referred to \"agents\".\nIn 2007, German and Swiss director Andrea Reiter realised a documentary (produced by Hugofilm) about etoy's \"Mission Eternity\" project, a \"digital cult of the dead\".\n\nAs of 2015, a history overview on the group's website describes it as entering \"hibernation mode\" in 2013.\n\nThe \"toywar\" was a legal battle around 1999/2000 between the Internet toy retailer eToys.com and etoy about the domain name etoy.com. Fearing brand dilution and customer confusion about the similar domain names, eToys sued etoy for trademark infringement, and asked etoy to remove graphic images and profane language from their website that were bringing customer complaints. The artists refused to comply, and eToys eventually obtained a preliminary injunction against etoy which shut down their website. etoy fought back with a coordinated public relations campaign and Internet-based denial of service attacks on eToys.com. After several weeks eToys dropped the lawsuit and the etoy website returned to operation.\n\netoy activists have called it \"the most expensive performance in art history\". The story is one of the subjects of the documentary film, \"info wars\".\n\nAn email campaign was led by Internet activists including etoy agents developing the toywar website.\n\nA book about the story of the etoy corporation, \"Leaving reality behind\", by Regula Bochsler and Adam Wishart was released in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "601111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601111", "title": "First Mexican Empire", "text": "First Mexican Empire\n\nThe Mexican Empire (, ) was a short lived monarchy, and the first independent post-colonial imperial state in Mexico. It was the only former colony of the Spanish Empire to establish a monarchy after independence. Together with the Brazilian Empire, it was one of two European-style empires in the Americas. The Mexican Empire lasted two years.\n\nIt existed from the signing of the Treaty of Córdoba and the declaration of Independence of the Mexican Empire in September 1821 until the emperor's abdication in March 1823 when the Provisional Government took power and the First Mexican Republic was proclaimed in 1824. The first monarch of the state was Agustín de Iturbide, reigning as Agustín I of Mexico.\n\nThe various independentist factions in revolutionary Mexico coalesced around three principles, or \"guarantees,\" for Mexican independence from Spain: that Mexico would be an independent constitutional monarchy governed by a conservative European prince; that \"criollos\" and \"peninsulares\" would henceforth enjoy equal rights and privileges; and that the Roman Catholic Church would retain its privileges and position as the official religion of the land. These Three Guarantees formed the core of the Plan of Iguala, the revolutionary blueprint which, by combining the goal of independence and a constitution with the preservation of Catholic monarchy, brought together all Mexican factions. Under the 24 February 1821 Plan of Iguala, to which most of the provinces subscribed, the Mexican Congress established a regency council which was headed by Iturbide.\n\nAfter signing the Declaration of Independence of the Mexican Empire of 28 September 1821, the Mexican Congress intended to establish a commonwealth whereby the King of Spain, Ferdinand VII, would also be emperor of Mexico, and both countries would be governed by separate laws and form separate legislative bodies. If the king refused the position, the law provided for another member of the House of Bourbon to accede to the Mexican throne. However, the goal was merely a political tactic to appease the last royalists, and full independence was expected. King Ferdinand, however, refused to recognize Mexico's independence and said that Spain would not allow any other European prince to take the throne of Mexico.\n\nGeneral Agustín de Iturbide, a Mexican \"criollo\" who had been a royalist officer and who had led the Army of the Three Guarantees in the final phases of the war, was elected head of the provisional government and of the regency which held the imperial power while a monarch was chosen. Iturbide was extremely popular after his successes in the war of independence, and in the evening of 18 May 1822 a mass demonstration led by the Regiment of Celaya, which Iturbide had commanded during the war, marched through the streets of Mexico City and demanded that their commander-in-chief accept the throne himself.\n\nOn 19 May 1822, Mexican Congress named Iturbide as a constitutional emperor. On 21 May it issued a decree confirming this appointment, which was officially a temporary measure until a European monarch could be found to rule Mexico. Iturbide's official title was, \"By Divine Providence and the National Congress, First Constitutional Emperor of Mexico\" (). His coronation took place on 21 July 1822 in Mexico City.\n\nIn August 1822 a plot to overthrow the monarchy was discovered and on August 25, plotters, including 16 members of Congress, were arrested. As factions in the Congress began to sharply criticise Iturbide and his policies, the emperor decided on 31 October to dissolve the body. This led to provincial uprisings, the most important of which was in the garrison at Veracruz led by Antonio López de Santa Anna, who would later be president of Mexico during the secession of Texas and the disastrous Mexican–American War. Santa Anna and his troops revolted against Iturbide, calling for the restoration of the Congress on 1 December 1822. Santa Anna had secretly persuaded General Echávarri, the commander of the Imperial forces, to switch sides and support the revolution when it was ready to be proclaimed throughout Mexico. The independence heroes Vicente Guerrero, Nicolás Bravo and Guadalupe Victoria soon joined, signing the Plan of Casa Mata on February 1, 1823, which called for the restoration of the Congress.\n\nThe Plan of Casa Mata, which other Mexican generals, governors, and high-ranking governmental officials soon signed, did not recognize the First Mexican Empire and called for the convening of a new Constituent Congress. The insurrectionists sent their proposal to the provincial governments and requested their adherence to the plan. In the course of just six weeks, the Plan of Casa Mata traveled to such remote places as Texas, and almost all the provinces supported the plan.\n\nEach provincial government that accepted the plan thereby withdrew its allegiance from the Imperial government and assumed sovereignty within its own province.\n\nThis left Emperor Agustín I isolated with little support outside of Mexico City and a few factions of the Imperial Army. Consequently, he reinstalled the Congress, which he had previously abolished, abdicated the throne, and fled the country on 19 March 1823.\n\nSanta Anna and the other proponents of the Plan of Casa Mata went on to oversee the drafting of a new constitution and the establishment of the First Mexican Republic the following year.\n\nThe territory of the Mexican Empire corresponded to the borders of Viceroyalty of New Spain, excluding the Captaincies General of Cuba, Santo Domingo and the Philippines. The Central American lands of the former Captaincy General of Guatemala were annexed to the Empire shortly after its establishment, making the First Mexican Empire the largest country in North America with territory of approximately 5 million square km.\n\nUnder the First Empire, Mexico reached its greatest territorial extent, stretching from northern California to the provinces of Central America (excluding Panama, which was then part of Colombia), which had not initially approved becoming part of the Mexican Empire but joined the Empire shortly after their independence.\n\nAfter the emperor abdicated, on March 29 the departing Mexican general Vicente Filisola called for a new Central American Congress to convene and on July 1, 1823 the Central American provinces formed the Federal Republic of Central America, with only the province of Chiapas choosing to remain a part of Mexico as a state. Subsequent territorial evolution of Mexico over the next several decades (principally cessions to the United States) would eventually reduce Mexico to less than half its maximum extent.\n\nThe first Mexican empire was divided into the following intendances:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32853118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32853118", "title": "Forokarta", "text": "Forokarta\n\nThe Forokarta (φοροκάρτα) is a \"tax card\" proposed by the government of Greece in August 2011, which would be used to facilitate collection of receipts for purchases; this would allow the Greek finance ministry to clamp down on rampant tax evasion by comparing individuals' spending to their income and by comparing business' \"actual\" revenues to their accounts.\n\nThe card physically resembles a credit card. It does not display a name; it has a unique 10-digit ID number. The card was officially introduced on 3 October 2011.\n\nThe introduction of the card went hand in hand with other changes to the tax system. Because the card is used to track payments made by the holder but does not carry personally identifying information and does not entitle the holder to anything, theft of cards is not a great concern.\n\n"}
{"id": "45002140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45002140", "title": "French Red Cross", "text": "French Red Cross\n\nThe French Red Cross (), or the CRF, is the national Red Cross Society in France founded in 1864 and originally known as the \"Société française de secours aux blessés militaires\" (SSBM).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48788044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48788044", "title": "Green famine", "text": "Green famine\n\nGreen famine is the term used for a condition in which a country or area is suffering famine even though the fields are green in the absence of drought—it was described as \"suffering amongst the plenty\". The famine is caused by such problems as \"high food prices, coupled with high birth rates and poor land management\", flooding, and sometimes man-made ecological problems such as water shortages and deforestation. It is sometimes caused by a poor harvest in the prior year that causes a depletion of food stores during the winter months, thus a lack of food in the spring and summer even when the coming harvest looks \"green\" and potentially bountiful.\n\nThe phenomenon was noted in Sidamo Province, Ethiopia, as early as the 1980s, when bacterial disease and poor rains caused the destruction of much of the ensete crop after farmers had to sell their crops rather than eat them in order to pay heavy taxes; in the 1990s, when after a dry spell the sorghum was growing but carried no seed; and again in the 2000s, when \"recent rains [in 2003] created a lush landscape which masks severe hunger\".\n\nIn the 1990s North Korea suffered from a period of famine caused by poor weather and inefficient transport. This period became known as the \"Arduous March\"; political changes in countries which formerly supported the North Korean economy reduced or eliminated sources of external support.\n"}
{"id": "16885014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16885014", "title": "Hillbilly Outfield: Kentucky Derby party", "text": "Hillbilly Outfield: Kentucky Derby party\n\nThe Hillbilly Outfield: Kentucky Derby party is hosted annually by a group of volunteers called the Hillbilly Coalition, to benefit the Make A Wish Foundation. The Hillbilly Outfield Kentucky Derby party began in 2001, and is one of the biggest Kentucky Derby parties in Louisville. Because of its location in Middletown, Kentucky, being a part of the Louisville metropolitan area and fairly far from the actual Derby, it was named the \"Outfield\". This is jokingly a reference to the famous Infield at the Kentucky Derby. The event consists of an entire weekend of drinks, food, live music, audio and video Derby coverage, games, and much more. Most importantly, however, the driving motivation behind the event is that it is a non-profit event with no paid personnel solely to raise funds for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. The Hillbilly Outfield is becoming a Kentucky Derby tradition for many, and will become more and more of a tradition with every new Derby season. Between 400 and 500 people are in attendance each year. Ticket prices range between $50-$70, and cover food, drinking (non-alcoholic), camping space and entertainment. The Hillbilly Outfield supplies beers for only $1 each, including brands like Coors and Samuel Adams. The Hillbilly Outfield has been featured countless times as a must-attend event by many sources including various news channels, horse magazines, ESPN and Sports Illustrated.\n\n\nThe artwork for the event is of a unique taste, and has a great deal of influence on the magic and uniqueness of this Kentucky Derby party and its theme. There is a plethora of distinctive characters that appear every year in the artwork, with additional characters be incorporated annually. From year to year, they all seem to develop even more interesting and charming traits than before. The most important facet of the artwork is that every year it is based thematically on some related Derby event, such as this year's \"Chow Wagon\" and last year's \"Air Show\" theme.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30249772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249772", "title": "Human trafficking in the Maldives", "text": "Human trafficking in the Maldives\n\nThe Maldives is primarily a destination country for migrant workers from Bangladesh, and, to a lesser extent, India, some of whom are subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced labor. Some women are also subjected to forced prostitution. An unknown number of the 110,000 foreign workers currently working in the Maldives – primarily in the construction and service sectors – face fraudulent recruitment practices, confiscation of identity and travel documents, withholding or non-payment of wages, or debt bondage. Thirty thousand of these workers do not have legal status in the country, though both legal and illegal workers were vulnerable to conditions of forced labor. Diplomatic sources estimate that half of the 35,000 Bangladeshis in the Maldives went there illegally and that most of these workers are probably victims of trafficking. Migrant workers pay $1,000 to $4,000 in recruitment fees in order to migrate to the Maldives; such high recruitment costs increase workers’ vulnerability to forced labor, as concluded in a recent ILO report.\n\nA small number of women from Sri Lanka, Thailand, India, China, the Philippines, Eastern Europe, and former Soviet Union countries are recruited for forced prostitution in Malé, the capital. A small number of underage Maldivian girls reportedly are trafficked to Male from other islands for involuntary domestic servitude; this is a corruption of the widely acknowledged practice where families send Maldivian girls to live with a host family in Male for educational purposes.\n\nTrafficking offenders usually fall into three groups: families that subject domestic servants to forced labor; employment agents who bring low-skilled migrant workers to the Maldives under false terms of employment and upon payment of high fees; and employers who subject the migrants to conditions of forced labor upon arrival.\n\nThe Government of the Maldives does not comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking in persons; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Despite these efforts, the government lacks systematic procedures for identifying victims of trafficking among vulnerable populations, and during the reporting period it did not investigate or prosecute trafficking-related offenses or take concrete actions to protect trafficking victims and prevent trafficking in the Maldives. Therefore, the Maldives is placed on Tier 2 Watch List. After 30 years of one-party rule, the new government – formed in 2009 – is continuing to build the institutions of democratic governance.\n\nThe Government of the Maldives undertook limited anti-human trafficking law enforcement efforts during the last year. Although the Maldives does not have laws prohibiting human trafficking offenses, its constitution prohibits forced labor and slavery. The only prescribed penalty for labor trafficking offenses is a fine. The government did not investigate or prosecute any trafficking cases. The Labor Tribunal, created as part of the 2008 Employment Act, heard eight cases involving foreign workers whose wages had not been paid — a possible indicator of forced labor — but the tribunal lacked legal authority to enforce its decision. In addition, employment tribunal members and employees expressed concerns about their ability to resolve cases involving foreign workers because all their proceedings were conducted in the local language.\n\nThe Maldivian government made limited efforts to ensure that victims of trafficking received access to necessary assistance during the reporting period. The government did not develop or implement formal procedures for proactively identifying victims, and the government did not identify any specific cases of trafficking or provide an estimate of the number of victims. Officers with the Maldivian Police and the Department of Immigration and Emigration have received training in the recognition of trafficking victims. The Maldives did not provide services such as shelter, counseling, medical care, or legal aid to foreign or Maldivian victims of trafficking. On an \"ad hoc\" basis, it provided extremely short-term housing for migrants immediately before deportation. The government’s general policy for dealing with trafficking victims was deportation, and it did not provide foreign victims with legal alternatives to their removal to countries where they might face hardship or retribution. Authorities did not encourage victims to participate in the investigation or prosecution of trafficking offenders, since no investigations or prosecutions took place. Due to a lack of comprehensive victim identification procedures, the Maldives may not have ensured that expatriates subjected to forced labor and prostitution were not inappropriately incarcerated, fined, or otherwise penalized for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficking.\n\nThe Maldives made limited progress to prevent human trafficking over the last year. The government did not conduct any anti-trafficking or educational campaigns and it did not take steps to create an inter-agency structure – such as a committee or plan of action – for coordination on anti-trafficking matters. The government did not take any measures to reduce demand for forced labor on the islands. In 2010, the Maldives enacted a provision in the 2008 Employment Act requiring all employers to use employment agents. The Human Rights Commission of the Maldives, a constitutionally-established independent body, published a report in August 2009 that contained strong trafficking-related recommendations including prosecutions for forced labor offenders and regulations of recruitment agencies. In February 2010, the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Department of Immigration and Emigration prominently posted on its website a readout of bilateral discussions on trafficking. Senior government officials recently attended the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation’s convention on trafficking, which focused on sex trafficking. The Maldives is not a party to the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n"}
{"id": "41051723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41051723", "title": "Immigration to Somalia", "text": "Immigration to Somalia\n\nImmigration in Somalia is regulated by the Somali Immigration Department of the Federal Government of Somalia.\n\nDue to the long absence of governmental regulation, it is uncertain how many foreigners travel to Somalia per year. However, visas and residence permits are now mandatory for all foreign nationals. As of April 2013, the re-established Somali Immigration Department requires all undocumented foreigners to register at its offices in the capital Mogadishu.\n\nAs part of IOM Somalia's Capacity Building for Migration Management (CBMM) projects, a Migration Information and Data Analysis System (MIDAS) was installed in 2014. The new immigration and border management infrastructure strengthens security by screening travelers at 11 main ports of entry in the country. It in the process registers their biometric data and passport details, and generates statistics for policymakers.\n\nIn April 2015, the Federal Cabinet also passed a new policy prioritizing the local workforce and restricting the reliance on foreign labour.\n\nAs of 2012, most emigrants to Somalia consist of Somali expatriates, who have returned to Mogadishu and other urban areas for investment opportunities and to take part in the ongoing post-conflict reconstruction process. Through both private efforts and public initiatives like the Somali Diaspora Corps, they have participated in the renovation of schools, hospitals, banks and other infrastructure, and have played a leading role in the capital's recovery. They have also helped to propel the local real estate market.\n\nIn 2015, after the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen, many returning Somali expatriates as well as various foreign nationals began emigrating from Yemen to northern Somalia. The UN expects the number of foreign nationals to eventually reach 100,000 over the following months.\n\nAs of September 2014, the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation is scheduled to launch the first population census for Somalia in over two decades. The UNFPA assisted the Ministry in the project, which is slated to be finalized ahead of the planned plebiscite and local and national elections in 2016.\n\nTourism in Somalia is overseen by the Federal Government of Somalia's Ministry of Tourism. The autonomous Puntland and Somaliland regions maintain their own tourist offices. The industry was traditionally noted for its numerous historical sites, beaches, waterfalls, mountain ranges and national parks. After the start of the civil war in the early 1990s, the Tourism Ministry shut down operations. It was later re-established in the 2000s, and once again oversees the national tourist industry. The Mogadishu-based Somali Tourism Association (SOMTA) also provides on-the-ground consulting services.\n\nIn December 2013, the Federal Government officially launched Somalia's new e-passport. Part of a broader initiative to strengthen security, the passport will be issued by the Ministry of Interior's Department of Immigration. Citizens are eligible for the e-passport upon production of government-issued national identity documents and birth certificates.\n\nAccording to Article 54 of the national constitution, the allocation of powers and resources between the Federal Government and the Federal Republic of Somalia's constituent Federal Member States shall be negotiated and agreed upon by the Federal Government and the Federal Member States, except in matters pertaining to citizenship and immigration, foreign affairs, national defense, and monetary policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "3023875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023875", "title": "Instituto Nacional de Migración", "text": "Instituto Nacional de Migración\n\nThe National Institute of Migration (INM) is a unit of the government of Mexico dependent on the Secretariat of the Interior that controls and supervises migration in the country.\n\nDuring the Presidency of Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the \"Paisano\" program was created to assist Mexican nationals returning to Mexico for temporary visits.\n\nGrupos Beta (Beta Groups) is a service by the National Institute of Migration (INM) of Mexico offering water, medical aid, and information to immigrants at risk within the Mexican borders.\n\nOfficials of Child Protection 'OFICIALES DE PROTECCIÓN A LA INFANCIA' (OPIS) are Mexican Federal Migration Agents whose main task is to ensure respect for the human rights of children and adolescent migrants, especially children unaccompanied by an adult.\n\nThe \"Programa Temporal de Regularización Migratoria\" (PTRM) published on 12 January 2015 in the Diario Oficial de la Federación, is aimed at those foreigners who have made their permanent residence in Mexico but due to 'diverse circumstances' did not regularize their stay in the country and find themselves turning to 'third parties' to perform various procedures, including finding employment.\n\nThe program is aimed at foreign nationals who entered the country before 9 November 2012. Foreigners wishing to live and be part of the national life of Mexico, will receive through the PTRM the status of 'temporary resident' by an immigration document that is valid for four years. The temporary program will run from 13 January to 18 December 2015.\n\nIn accordance with the provisions of Articles: 1, 2, 10, 18, 77, 126 and 133 of the \"Ley de Migración\"; 1 and 143 of the \"Reglamento de la Ley de Migración\", any foreign national wishing to regularize their immigration status within Mexican territory, under the PTRM will complete the payment of fees for the following:\n\nI. Proof of payment for receiving and examining the application of the procedure... ... MXN 1124.00 (USD 77.14 as of 12 January 2015)\n\nII . For the issuance of the certificate giving them the status of temporary stay for four years ... MXN 7914.00 (USD 514.17)\n\nFor people of low income or the vulnerable, Article 16 of the \"Ley Federal de Derechos\" will exempt them from payment if it can be proven that the foreign national earns a wage at or below minimum wage. During the period that the PTRM is in effect, no fine will be applied (as is the practice otherwise).\n\nSince 1999, the INM approved the increase from 16 to 32 regional offices, one for every state of Mexico and the Federal District. It also has 45 migration stations concentrated on border states (land), Mexico City (air) and the Gulf of Mexico (sea). These stations are:\n\n\nA 2017 report commissioned by the Instituto Nacional de Migración argued that migrants from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador were subjected to physical, verbal and sexual abuse in its detention centers, including solitary confinement, death threats and unwanted sexual contact. The INM refuted the claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "37809826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37809826", "title": "Interacting particle system", "text": "Interacting particle system\n\nIn probability theory, an interacting particle system (IPS) is a stochastic process formula_1 on some configuration space formula_2 given by a site space, a countable-infinite graph formula_3 and a local state space, a compact metric space formula_4. More precisely IPS are continuous-time Markov jump processes describing the collective behavior of stochastically interacting components. IPS are the continuous-time analogue of stochastic cellular automata.\nAmong the main examples are the voter model, the contact process, the asymmetric simple exclusion process (ASEP), the Glauber dynamics and in particular the stochastic Ising model.\n\nIPS are usually defined via their Markov generator giving rise to a unique Markov process using Markov semigroups and the Hille-Yosida theorem. The generator again is given via so-called transition rates formula_5 where formula_6 is a finite set of sites and formula_7 with formula_8 for all formula_9. The rates describe exponential waiting times of the process to jump from configuration formula_10 into configuration formula_11. More generally the transition rates are given in form of a finite measure formula_12 on formula_13.\n\nThe generator formula_14 of an IPS has the following form. First, the domain of formula_14 is a subset of the space of \"observables\", that is, the set of real valued continuous functions on the configuration space formula_16. Then for any observable formula_17 in the domain of formula_14, one has\n\nformula_19.\n\nFor example, for the stochastic Ising model we have formula_20, formula_21, formula_22 if formula_23 for some formula_24 and\n\nwhere formula_26 is the configuration equal to formula_10 except it is flipped at site formula_28. formula_29 is a new parameter modeling the inverse temperature.\n\n"}
{"id": "38806182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38806182", "title": "Inuit Party", "text": "Inuit Party\n\nThe Inuit Party (, lit. \"People's Party\") was a separatist party in Greenland, formed by dissidents from the then-governing Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA). The party was opposed to the so-called big-scale law, and wanted a referendum on the law. Mette Lynge represented the party in the Naalakkersuisut (Government) and was minister for dwellings, nature and environment. At the 2014 Greenlandic general election the party did not win any seats in parliament.\n\nDuring the 2009–2013 government of Inuit Ataqatigiit, a \"big-scale law\" was passed that made it easier for foreign companies to obtain mining licenses and contract foreign workers. The law guaranteed foreign workers' right to strike and a local minimum wage, but allowed companies to deduct insurance and food costs from their pay, giving them an effectively much lower salary. As a result of the law being passed, IA dissidents concerned about the exploitation of foreign workers, as well as the social and environmental impacts of new mining operations formed the Inuit Party. It won two seats in the 2013 general elections and formed part of Aleqa Hammond's coalition government. However, early elections were held the following year, in which the party lost both its seats.\n\nOn 17 December 2016 the party regained parliamentary representation when former Siumut MP Per Rosing-Petersen defected to the party and was elected as its leader. However, he left the party two months later to join Partii Naleraq.\n\nIt was announced at a press conference on 16 March 2018 that the party was being dissolved and that the former members of the party would now ally themselves with Partii Naleraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "11223064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11223064", "title": "Iđut", "text": "Iđut\n\nIđut AS is a Norwegian publisher, based in Ikkaldas, Indre Billefjord in Porsanger. It publishes novels, children's books, text books and school books, general literature, music and films. It also has \na magazine, Š, for youth (edited by Máret Ánne Sara). \nThe main language of the publisher is Northern Sami, but it also publishes in Lule Sami, Southern Sami, Kven, and Norwegian. \nThe head of the organisation, as of 2006 is Åge Persen. Chief editor is Nan Persen.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "49009245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49009245", "title": "Kurt Warnekros", "text": "Kurt Warnekros\n\nKurt Warnekros (1882–1949) was a German gynaecologist and pioneer in sexual reassignment surgery.\n\nKurt Warnekros was born in 15 November 1882 in the family of the professor of medicine Ludwig Warnekros at the University of Berlin. Warnekros himself studied medicine in Würzburg and Berlin from 1902 to 1907. He received the medical license in 1908 and worked at the Women's Hospital of the University of Berlin from 1909. In 1918 Warnekros was appointed professor and in 1924 as head of the hospital. In addition to working as a gynecologist, Warnekros also worked scientifically in the field of X-rays, making x-rays of babies in the womb.\n\nIn 1930, following a trip to Paris, Warnekros took Einar Wegener as a patient, arranging a series of operations, transforming Wegener into Lili Elbe. This was following the operation performed at Magnus Hirschfeld's Institute for Sexual Research for the removal of Elbe's testicles. A series of three operations were performed. Lili died after the last operation when the transplanted womb was rejected by her body.\n\nKurt Warnekros is portrayed by Sebastian Koch in the 2015 film \"The Danish Girl\".\n"}
{"id": "1262005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262005", "title": "Lanc-Patuá creole", "text": "Lanc-Patuá creole\n\nLanc-Patuá is a creole language spoken in the state of Amapá in Brazil, primarily now around the capital, Macapá. It is a French-based creole language, spoken by local Indians and immigrants from French Guiana, the Caribbean and other areas of Brazil, and their descendants. It has some English and Portuguese influence on its vocabulary, but its grammar is clearly similar to the French-based creole languages of the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.\n\nLanc-Patuá is derived from Karipúna Creole spoken by indigenous Amerindians. The substratum language of Karipúna Creole was the now-extinct Tupian language Karipúna. The name comes from the French \"Langue Patois\", meaning simply dialectal language.\n\nLanc-Patuá creole typically refers to what is spoken in Macapá, the capital of Amapá state, whereas Amapá French creole refers to the French-lexified creoles in the Uaça Indian Reservation: Karipúna French creole (KFC) and Galibi-Marwono French creole (GMFC).\n\nIn Brazil, there are two Creolophone groups that speaks two creole languages: one French-lexifed and the other Portuguese-lexifed. The Portuguese-lexicon creole is spoken in the state of São Paulo, while the French-lexified creole is spoken in the state of Amapá in North Eastern Brazil, the Brazilian state bordering French Guiana. \n\nLanc-Patuá is said to be spoken by descendants of French Guiana and French Creole-speaking immigrants from the French Antilles who number approximately 25,000. The southern variety, Lanc-Patúa, shows some English influence because of a relatively large number of migrants from St. Lucia and Dominica. It is a variety of the French Guianese Creole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32268730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32268730", "title": "Mokole language (Benin)", "text": "Mokole language (Benin)\n\nMokole (or \"Mokollé, Mokwale, Monkole, Féri\") is a Yoruba language spoken in the villages surrounding the town of Kandi in Benin. It's the northernmost variety of Yoruba.\n"}
{"id": "24277234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24277234", "title": "Muslim Dhobi", "text": "Muslim Dhobi\n\nThe Muslim Dhobi are a Muslim community that is traditionally involved in washing clothes in South Asia. They are considered to be Muslim converts from the Hindu Dhobi caste, and are found in North India and Pakistan. The community is also known as Charhoa and Gazar in Pakistan and Hawari in India.\n\nKassar caste is known as muslim Dhobi. In India, they continue to depend on their traditional occupation of washing clothes. The more enterprising elements within the group have set up dry cleaning businesses. At present time kassar caste does not involve in washing clothes. They started their own business. Many in rural areas are tenant farmers. The community are distributed throughout North India and South India, with concentrations in Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Also in south Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh they found. Although they live in multi-caste and multi-religious villages, they occupy distinct quarters in towns and villages. A Dhobi settlement in often referred to as a \"dhobighat\". Each of their settlement contains a traditional caste council, which resolves disputes within the community, and deals with issues such as elopement, theft and adultery. Like other Muslim artisan castes, they have set a caste association, the All-India Jamiat al-Hawareen, which acts as a pressure group for the community.\n\nThe Dhobi community also live in Bakar Gunj, old city Kila and C.B. Gunj.\nThe Nagar Nigam Corprator Noor Jahan Begum Kassar without Israr Ahmad.\n\nThe Dhobi are an endogamous community, marrying among themselves, or occasionally with members of other artisan castes such as the Hajjam. The Dhobi are largely Sunni Muslim, and are fairly orthodox, although a small minority in Haryana are Shia. In North India, the Dhobi community are Urdu speaking, as well as speaking various local dialects such as Khari Boli and Awadhi.\n\nIn Delhi, they have two sub-divisions, the Shehri and Agharia. The Sheri trace their origin to Old Delhi, while the Agharia are originally from villages near Meerut and Hapur. They live in the localities of Farash Khana, Jama Masjid, Chitli Qabar, Lal Darwaza and Sheesh Mahal, all in Old Delhi. A large number of Delhi Dhobis emigrated to Pakistan, at the time of the independence of Pakistan in 1947. After the independence of India, their traditional occupation has suffered. Traditionally, all clothes were delivered to the Dhobi. This is no longer the case, and those Dhobis still involved in their traditional are those who have started to pick work from hotels and hospitals.\n\nIn Haryana, the community is found throughout the state. They speak Haryanvi, with educated members of the community speaking Urdu. The community is split along sectarian lines, with there being both Sunni and Shia among the Dhobi. They are also further divided into clans, known as gotras, such as the Bhatti, Taga . The Dhobi are strictly endogamous, and practice gotra exogamy. This practice is fairly common among the Haryana Muslims. Their main occupation remains the washing of clothes , although increasingly many Dhobi are now agricultural labourers. The community has informal caste councils at village level, while Haryana also has a state chapter of the All-India Jamiat al-Hawareen. Like other Haryana Muslims, the community has been greatly reduced in numbers by migration to Pakistan at the time of the independence of Pakistan in 1947.\n\nIn Gujarat, the Dhobi claim to have immigrated from Maharashtra, and settled throughout Gujarat. They speak Gujarati and Kutchi, and are Sunni Muslim. The Dhobi are strictly endogamous and marry close kins. Like other Gujarati Muslims communities, they have their own caste association, the Dhobi Muslim Jamat. The Dhobi are a landless community, with their traditional occupation remains washing and cleaning of clothes. A few successful Dhobi have started their own businesses. The community are found mainly in Baroda, Ahmedabad, Banaskantha and Kaira districts.\n\nThe Dilliwal Shaikh are a community of Muslim Dhobis, who are found in the cities of Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. They are said to have migrated from Delhi some three centuries ago, and their name literally means someone from Delhi. In Lucknow, they are found mainly in the neighbourhoods of Nalbandi Tola, Aghameel Deon, Billojpura, Gopalganj and Wazirganj. The Dilliwal are strictly endogamous, and do not intermarry with other Dhobi clans. They specialize in washing the chikan cloth, a special type of fabric found in the Awadh region. Each of their settlement contains a caste council, that maintains social control, and resolves any intra community dispute. The Dilliwal speak Awadhi, and follow the Sunni sect of Islam.\n\nIn Pakistan, the Punjab Dhobi are mainly a rural community. The Dhobi are an artisan caste, receiving a fixed share of the agricultural produce for their services. The Gazar sub-division, found in southern Punjab, have taken to agriculture. The Gazar and Charhoa are Seraiki speaking, while the Dhobi in central Punjab speak Punjabi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26735345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26735345", "title": "Narcotics in Bolivia", "text": "Narcotics in Bolivia\n\nNarcotics in Bolivia, South America, is a subject that primarily involves the coca crop, used in the production of the drug, cocaine. Trafficking and corruption have been two of the most prominent negative side-effects of the illicit narcotics trade in Bolivia and the country's government has engaged in negotiations with the United States (US) as result of the industry's ramifications.\n\nBolivia's most lucrative crop and economic activity in the 1980s was coca, whose leaves were processed clandestinely into cocaine. The country was the second largest grower of coca in the world, supplying approximately fifteen percent of the US cocaine market in the late 1980s. Analysts believed that exports of coca paste and cocaine generated between US$600 million to US$1 billion annually in the 1980s (depending on prices and output). Based on these estimates, coca-related exports equaled or surpassed the country's legal exports.\n\nCoca has been grown in Bolivia for centuries. The coca plant, a tea-like shrub, was cultivated mostly by small farmers in the Chapare and Yungas regions. About 65 percent of all Bolivian coca was grown in the Chapare region of Cochabamba Department; other significant coca-growing areas consisted of the Yungas of La Paz Department and various areas... Soaring unemployment also contributed to the boom. In addition, farmers turned to coca for its quick economic return, its light weight, its yield of four crops a year, and the abundance of United States dollars available in the trade, a valuable resource in a hyperinflated economy. The Bolivian government estimated that coca production had expanded from 1.63 million kilograms of leaves covering 4,100 hectares in 1977 to a minimum of 45 million kilograms over an area of at least 48,000 hectares in 1987. The number of growers expanded from 7,600 to at least 40,000 over the same period. Besides growers, the coca networks employed numerous Bolivians, including carriers (\"zepeadores\"), manufacturers of coca paste and cocaine, security personnel, and a large variety of other positions. The unparalleled revenues made the risk worthwhile for many.\n\nGovernment efforts to eradicate the expansion of coca cultivation in Bolivia began in 1983, when Bolivia committed itself to a five-year program to reduce coca production and created the Coca Eradication Directorate (\"Dirección de la Reconversión de la Coca—Direco\") under the Ministry of Agriculture, Campesino Affairs, and Livestock Affairs. Bolivia's National Directorate for the Control of Dangerous Substances (\"Dirección Nacional para el Control de Substancias Peligrosas\"—DNCSP) was able to eradicate several thousand hectares of coca.\n\nThese efforts put only a small dent in the coca industry and were highly controversial among thousands of peasants. Under the joint agreement signed by the United States and Bolivia in 1987, which created the DNCSP, Bolivia allocated US$72.2 million for the 1988 to 1991 period to eradication programs, including a wide-ranging rural development program for the Chapare region. The program was aided by an 88 percent drop in the local price of coca caused by the fall in cocaine prices in the United States.\n\nThe economics of eradication were particularly frustrating. As more coca was destroyed, the local price increased, making it more attractive to other growers. Bolivia, however, was seeking additional funds from the United States and Western Europe to proceed with an eradication plan that was supposed to provide peasants US$2,000 per hectare eradicated. With the 1988 passage of Law 1008, coca growing became technically illegal outside a specially mandated 12,000- hectare area in the Yungas.\n\nA four-year government eradication campaign begun in 1989 sought to convert 55 percent of coca areas into legal crops. Coffee and citrus fruits were offered as alternative crops to coca despite the fact that their return was a fraction of that of coca. These crops were also harder to sell and transport. Coca has a much longer shelf-life than that of fruit crops, which require rapid transportation.\n\nThe cocaine industry had a generally deleterious effect on the Bolivian economy. The cocaine trade greatly accelerated the predominance of the United States dollar in the economy and the large black market for currency, thereby helping to fuel inflation in the 1980s. The escalation of coca cultivation also damaged the output of fruits and coffee, which were mostly destined for local consumption. Coca's high prices, besides being generally inflationary, also distorted other sectors, especially labor markets. Manufacturers in the Cochabamba area during the 1980s found it impossible to match the wages workers could gain in coca, making their supply of labor unreliable and thus hurting the formal economy.\n\nBy the late 1980s, Bolivians had become increasingly aware of the serious threat to their society posed by drug traffickers. One Bolivian editorial identified several dimensions of that threat: the existence of hundreds of clandestine airstrips in eastern Bolivia; flights of unidentified aircraft in Bolivian airspace; the presence of armed criminal groups; the disappearance of, and trafficking in, Bolivian passports; the intervention of officials of foreign governments in Bolivia's affairs; the acceptance of foreign troops on Bolivian territory; corruption within the national security agencies and courts of justice; the growing control of mass media by narcotics traffickers; the spread of drug abuse among Bolivian youth; and the increased links between traffickers and guerrilla groups.\n\nAn unwanted by-product of Bolivia's cocaine industry was the importation of Colombian-style drug violence. In the late 1980s, Colombia's Medellín Cartel reportedly wielded considerable power in Bolivia, setting prices for coca paste and cocaine and terrorizing the drug underworld with hired assassins. Furthermore, drug barons, organized into families, had established their own fiefdoms in Cochabamba, Beni, and Santa Cruz departments, using bribes and assassinations to destroy local authority.\n\nIn September 1986, three members of a Bolivian scientific team were slain in the Huanchaca National Park in Santa Cruz Department shortly after their aircraft landed beside a clandestine coca-paste factory. The murders led to the discovery of the country's largest cocaine-processing installation, as well as evidence of an extensive international drug-trafficking organization consisting mostly of Colombians and Brazilians. President Paz Estenssoro fired the Bolivian police commander and deputy commander as a result of their alleged involvement. In a related action, suspected traffickers in Santa Cruz murdered an opposition deputy who was a member of the congressional commission that investigated the Huanchaca case.\n\nIn the late 1980s, there were several incidents of narcoterrorism against the United States presence, the judiciary, and antidrug agents. For example, the so-called Alejo Calatayu terrorist command claimed responsibility for a May 1987 bomb attack against the Cochabamba home of a DEA agent. The supreme court of justice, seated in Sucre, requested and received military police protection in mid-1986. The explosives brigade successfully removed a live briefcase-bomb from the senate library in August 1987.\n\nThe so-called Santa Cruz Cartel, allegedly linked to the Medellín Cartel in Colombia, claimed responsibility for the machine-gun murders of two members of the special antinarcotics force in Santa Cruz in March 1988. Bolivians were also concerned about the increasing brazenness of Bolivia's drug traffickers, as demonstrated in August 1988 by a low-power dynamite attack on Secretary of State George P. Shultz's car caravan as it headed to La Paz's Kennedy International Airport. The so-called Simón Bolívar Group and the Pablo Zárate Willka National Indigenous Force (\"Fuerza Indigenista Pablo Zárate Willka\"—FIPZW) claimed responsibility.\n\nDrug-related corruption reportedly began to take a firm hold within Bolivia's military and security services under General Banzer's rule (1971–78). The García Meza regime (1980–81), however, was one of Bolivia's most flagrant examples of narcotics corruption. García Meza's so-called cocaine coup was itself generally believed to have been financed by the cocaine \"mafia,\" which bribed certain military officers. García Meza reportedly ruled with an \"inner cabinet\" of leading civilians and military officers involved in the cocaine trade. Two of his ministers—Colonel Ariel Coca and Colonel Luis Arce Gómez—were well-known \"godfathers\" of the industry. By 1982 approximately 4,500 prosecutions were under way in connection with the embezzlement of state funds by civil servants, said to amount to a total of US$100 million.\n\nIn early 1986, Congress charged García Meza and fifty-five of his former colleagues with sedition, armed uprising, treason, genocide, murder, torture, fraud against the state, drug trafficking, crimes against the Constitution, and other crimes. In April 1986, however, the Supreme Court of Justice suspended the first hearing in García Meza's murder trial, after his defense demanded the removal of three judges whom it charged had participated in García Meza's military government.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Justice subsequently voted to remove its president and two other justices from the trial. After García Meza escaped from custody (he had been living under house arrest in Sucre) and reportedly fled the country in early 1989, the Supreme Court of Justice vowed to try him and two accomplices in absentia. Governmental and military/police corruption under the Paz Estenssoro government (1985–89) was less flagrant than in the 1980-82 period of military rule. Nevertheless, it reportedly remained widespread.\n\nIn December 1988, Bolivia's foreign minister asserted that narcotics traffickers were attempting to corrupt the political process. Bolivians were outraged, for example, by secretly taped \"narcovideos\" made in 1985 by Roberto Suárez Gómez (known as the \"King of Cocaine\" in Bolivia until the mid-1980s) and aired on national television in May 1988. The tapes, provided by a former naval captain cashiered for alleged corruption, showed two prominent politicians from Banzer's Nationalist Democratic Action (Acción Democrática Nacionalista—ADN) and military figures fraternizing with Suárez.\n\nThe Umopar in particular had earned a reputation for corruption, especially in the Chapare region. In 1987, according to Department of State and congressional staff, drug traffickers were offering Umopar officers and town officials in the Chapare region amounts ranging from US$15,000 to US$25,000 for seventy two hours of \"protection\" in order to allow aircraft to load and take off from clandestine airstrips. In February 1988, the deputy minister of national defense announced that about 90 percent of Umopar members, including twelve middle- and high-ranking officers, had been dismissed for alleged links to drug trafficking. The La Paz newspaper Presencia reported in March 1988 that Umopar chiefs, including the prosecutors, were working with narcotics traffickers by returning to them the large drug finds and turning only the small ones in to the authorities. Observers considered Umopar forces in Santa Cruz to be more honest and dedicated.\n\nIn October 1988, the undersecretary of the Social Defense Secretariat reiterated that drug traffickers had obtained the protection of important sectors of influence in Bolivia, including some military members and ordinary judges. He cited the example of Cochabamba's Seventh Division commander and four of his top officers, who were discharged dishonorably after they were found to be protecting a clandestine Chapare airstrip used by drug smugglers. The ministry official also announced that the navy was protecting drug-trafficking activities in the Puerto Villarroel area of the Chapare. For that reason, the United States suspended assistance to the navy temporarily in late 1988 until its commander was replaced. In December 1989, Bolivia's antidrug police captured no less a drug trafficker than Arce Gómez, who was subsequently extradited to the United States.\n\nIn the late 1980s, there continued to be concern about an overburdened and allegedly corrupt judicial system. According to the Department of State's Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 1988 and Bolivian press reports, judges were implicated in drug-related corruption. Narcotics traffickers routinely tried to bribe judicial and other officials in exchange for releasing suspected smugglers, returning captured drugs, and purging incriminating files. In 1988 the Senate's Constitution and Justice Committee ordered the suspension of thirteen judges of the La Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz superior district courts of justice for wrongdoing in drug-trafficking cases. The Supreme Court of Justice insisted, however, on its prerogative to try the judges first. After doing so, it ordered the suspension of several of the accused judges and continued to investigate others.\n\nRelatively few prosecutions or forfeitures of traffickers' assets took place. A lack of judicial investigatory power hampered the investigation of the bank accounts and the origin of wealth of people suspected of trafficking in drugs. Although thirteen of the \"big bosses\" reportedly had been identified by early 1988, arrests of drug kingpins were infrequently reported because of lack of evidence.\n\nIn ruling on the 1986 Huanchaca case involving the slaying of a leading Bolivian scientist, his pilot, and a guide, the Third Criminal Court of Santa Cruz returned a guilty verdict in April 1988 against ten Brazilians and a Colombian, in addition to a Bolivian thought to be dead. The court, however, dismissed charges against five other Bolivian suspects, including several well-known drug traffickers. The freeing of two of the suspects by the Santa Cruz judges prompted the Supreme Court of Justice to demand the resignations of the entire Santa Cruz judiciary because of its leniency toward drug traffickers. Four Santa Cruz judges were dismissed because of irregularities in the Huanchaca case, which in early 1989 remained at an impasse, under advisement in the Supreme Court of Justice.\n\nUnder the 1988 Antinarcotics Law, the Judicial Police must report antinarcotics operations to the closest Special Antinarcotics Force district within forty-eight hours. The law also called for the creation of three-judge Special NarcoticsControl Courts or tribunals (Juzgados Especiales de Narcotráfico) with broad responsibilities. In early 1989, the Supreme Court of Justice began appointing judges and lawyers to serve on the new tribunals, two of which began functioning as tribunals of first instance in narcotics-related cases, with jurisdiction for the judicial districts of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, and Beni.\n\nA total of thirteen Special Narcotics-Control Courts were supposed to be operating by mid-1989, with two in each of the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, and Beni, and only one responsible for the five remaining departments. Their judges, adjunct prosecutors, and support staff were to receive higher salaries than other judicial officials. However, the Paz Zamora government reportedly planned to disband these courts.\n\nSource: Based on information from United States, Agency for International Development, A review of AID's Narcotics Control Development Assistance Program, Washington, 1986, E-2.\n\nIn February 1987, Bolivia and the United States signed a broad outline of an agreement on a three-year, US$300 million joint plan aimed at eradicating 70 percent of Bolivia's known coca fields. The new program included a one-year voluntary eradication phase and a program in which coca growers would be paid US$350 in labor costs and US$1,650 in longer-term development assistance for each hectare of coca destroyed. According to the Department of State's Bureau of International Narcotics Matters, Bolivia exceeded the voluntary coca reduction target for the September 1987 to August 1988 period, destroying 2,000 hectares, or 200 more than required.\n\nTo implement the 1987 agreement, the Paz Estenssoro government revamped the antidrug bureaucracy that had been established, incongruously, in 1981 during the García Meza regime. The National Council Against the Unlawful Use and Illicit Trafficking of Drugs (Consejo Nacional Contra el Uso Indebido y Tráfico Ilícito de Drogas—Conalid), presided over by the foreign minister, was charged with drawing up rules and regulations and creating new antidrug-trafficking measures.\n\nTwo new secretariats were formed under Conalid. The Social Defense Subsecretariat (Subsecretaría de Defensa Social) was made subordinate to the Ministry of Interior, Migration, and Justice and charged with interdiction. It also centralized all the activities of the National Directorate for the Control of Dangerous Substances (Dirección Nacional para el Control de Substancias Peligrosas—DNCSP) and of the Umopar. The Subsecretariat of Alternative Development and Substitution of Coca Cultivation (Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Alternativo y Sustitución de Cultivos de Coca) and its Coca Eradication Directorate (Dirección de la Reconversión de la Coca—Direco) were charged with drawing up overall rural development plans for the areas affected by the substitution of the coca plantations.\n\nOn July 19, 1988, to qualify for United States aid, Paz Estenssoro signed the Law of Regulations for Coca and Controlled Substances (Ley del Régimen de la Coca y Sustancias Controladas)- -hereafter, the 1988 Antinarcotics Law. One of the strictest antinarcotics laws in Latin America, it aimed at eradicating illicit coca production and penalizing trafficking in drugs. As enacted by presidential decree in December 1988, the new law provided for a 10,000-hectare zone of legal coca cultivation in the Yungas region of La Paz Department and a small section of Cochabamba Department to meet traditional demand (down from a previous total of 80,000 hectares for the Yungas and Chapare regions) (see fig. 16).\n\nIt also provided for a transitional zone of excess production in the Chapare region subject to annual reduction bench marks of 5,000 to 8,000 hectares and provided for an illegal zone, comprising all territory outside the traditional and transitional areas, in which coca cultivation was prohibited. The law prohibited the use of chemicals or herbicides for the eradication of coca, established that some 48,000 hectares of coca plantations would be eradicated over a five-year period, and set up a special judicial mechanism to deal with illegal drug trafficking.\n\nUnder the 1988 Antinarcotics Law, drug traffickers could be sentenced to prison for anywhere between five and twenty-five years; manufacturers of controlled substances, five to fifteen years; sowers and harvesters of illicit coca fields, two to four years; transporters, eight to twelve years; and pisadores (coca stompers), one to two years. Minors under the age of sixteen who were found guilty of drug-related crimes would be sent to special centers until they were completely rehabilitated.\n\nShortly before the new law went into effect, a United States General Accounting Office report criticized Bolivia's methods of fighting drug trafficking. The study, whose undocumented generalizations about corruption reportedly irked Bolivian government officials, put the primary blame for the slow progress against drug trafficking on rampant corruption in Bolivia and \"the unwillingness or inability of the government of Bolivia to introduce and implement effective coca control and enforcement measures.\"\n\nIn rejecting the report, the minister of interior, migration, and justice noted in November 1988 that, in addition to arresting more than 1,000 individuals on drug charges, Bolivia had eradicated some 2,750 hectares of coca plantations, seized 22,500 kilograms of cocaine, and destroyed over 2,000 cocaine factories. Bolivian officials also asserted that more than 1,660 antidrug operations during 1988 had resulted in the destruction of from 1,000 to 1,400 clandestine cocaine factories and laboratories (80 percent of them in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz departments), the confiscation of about 10,000 kilograms of cocaine, and the arrest of some 700 individuals. The minister of planning and coordination stated in December that 2,900 hectares of coca crops had been eradicated under the financial compensation program.\n\nBolivia's anti-narcotics units apprehended several prominent traffickers in 1988. At the same time that the 1988 Antinarcotics Law was promulgated, the Umopar arrested Suárez at his hacienda in Beni Department. According to one theory, Suárez allowed himself to be arrested in a bid to avoid extradition to the United States (see The Criminal Justice System, this ch.). In October 1988, the Special Antinarcotics Forces captured an alleged drug \"godfather,\" Mario Araoz Morales (\"El Chichin\"), by chance during a training exercise in a jungle area. In November antidrug police in the Chapare also arrested Rosa Flores de Cabrera, alias Rosa Romero de Humérez (\"La Chola Rosa\"), described as one of the most-wanted women in the Bolivian drugtrafficking network, with connections to the Medellín Cartel.\n\nUnder the government of Jaime Paz Zamora (1989- ), antidrug institutions were restructured, but Conalid remained the regulatory body. Conalid directed the Permanent Executive Coordination and Operations Council (Consejo Permanente de Coordinación Ejecutiva y Operativa—Copceo). Like Conalid, Copceo was headed by the foreign minister, and its membership also included the ministers of interior, migration, and justice; planning and coordination; social services and public health; agriculture, campesino affairs, and livestock affairs; education and culture; national defense; and finance. A new National Executive Directorate (Directorio Ejecutivo Nacional—DEN) was to support Copceo's plans and program dealing with alternative development, drug prevention, and coca-crop eradication.\n\nCurrent President of Bolivia Evo Morales is also titular president of Bolivia's \"cocalero\" movement – a loose federation of coca growers' unions, made up of campesinos who are resisting the efforts of the United States government to eradicate coca in the province of Chapare in central Bolivia.\n\nHowever, President Morales appears to be having some success in counter-narcotics efforts. Seizures of coca paste and cocaine and destruction of drug laboratories have steadily increased since President Morales took office, and coca cultivation was down 13% in 2011 alone. Analysts such as Kathryn Ledebur and Colletta Youngers indicate that these successes have emerged from effective coca monitoring, increased economic development, and \"social control\". Such improvements in Bolivia's narcotics situation have reportedly drawn attention and led to a slight diplomatic thaw with the United States; the two countries are expected to swap ambassadors.\n\n\nWhere in the world did someone research that coca production is down in Bolivia under Evo Morales?"}
{"id": "37357005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37357005", "title": "Nationale Opsporingslijst", "text": "Nationale Opsporingslijst\n\nThe Nationale Opsporingslijst (English: National Detectionlist) is a Dutch most wanted list maintained by the Korps landelijke politiediensten. Individuals on the list can either be suspects, or irrevocably convicted, of certain crimes. Individuals generally are removed from the list only in the event of capture, death, or the withdrawal of the charges. A television program that likes to solve crimes, Opsporing Verzocht, normally publicizes fugitives newly added.\nBeyond the two criteria applied to both categories — that the criminal act bears a possible punishment of eight years in prison or longer, and that the success of other avenues of capture is deemed problematic — the Dutch Public Prosecution Service (Dutch:Openbaar Ministerie) has set criteria for placement of a suspect on the Nationale Opsporingslijst that are far more strict than for those of a convict.\n\n - Currently on the list.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "662861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662861", "title": "Norwegian Constitution Day", "text": "Norwegian Constitution Day\n\nNorwegian Constitution Day is the national day of Norway and is an official public holiday observed on May 17 each year. Among Norwegians, the day is referred to simply as syttende mai (lit. \"seventeenth May\"), \"Nasjonaldagen\" (The National Day) or \"Grunnlovsdagen\" (The Constitution Day), although the latter is less frequent.\n\nThe Constitution of Norway was signed at Eidsvoll on May 17 in the year 1814. The constitution declared Norway to be an independent kingdom in an attempt to avoid being ceded to Sweden after Denmark–Norway's devastating defeat in the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe celebration of this day began spontaneously among students and others from early on. However, Norway was at that time in a union with Sweden (following the Convention of Moss in August 1814) and for some years the King of Sweden and Norway were reluctant to allow the celebrations. For a few years during the 1820s, King Karl Johan actually banned it, believing that celebrations like this were in fact a kind of protest and disregard — even revolt — against the union. The king's attitude changed after the Battle of the Square in 1829, an incident which resulted in such a commotion that the king had to allow commemorations on the day. It was, however, not until 1833 that public addresses were held, and official celebration was initiated near the monument of former government minister Christian Krohg, who had spent much of his political life curbing the personal power of the monarch. The address was held by Henrik Wergeland, thoroughly witnessed and accounted for by an informant dispatched by the king himself.\n\nAfter 1864 the day became more established when the first children's parade was launched in Christiania, at first consisting only of boys. This initiative was taken by Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson, although Wergeland made the first known children's parade at Eidsvoll around 1820. It was only in 1899 that girls were allowed to join in the parade for the first time. In 1905, the union with Sweden was dissolved and Prince Carl of Denmark was chosen to be King of an independent Norway, under the name Haakon VII. Obviously, this ended any Swedish concern for the activities of the National Day.\n\nBy historical coincidence, the Second World War ended in Norway nine days before that year's Constitution Day, on May 8, 1945, when the occupying German forces surrendered. Even if The Liberation Day is an official flag day in Norway, the day is not an official holiday and is not widely celebrated. Instead, a new and broader meaning has been added to the celebration of Norwegian Constitution Day on May 17.\n\nA noteworthy aspect of the Norwegian Constitution Day is its very non-military nature. All over Norway, children's parades with an abundance of flags form the central elements of the celebration. Each elementary school district arranges its own parade with marching bands between schools. The parade takes the children through the community, often making stops at homes of senior citizens, war memorials, etc. The longest parade is in Oslo, where some 100,000 people travel to the city centre to participate in the main festivities. This is broadcast on TV every year, with comments on costumes, banners, etc., together with local reports from celebrations around the country. The massive Oslo parade includes some 100 schools, marching bands, and passes the royal palace where the royal family greet the people from the main balcony.\n\nTypically, a school's children parade will consist of some senior school children carrying the school's official banner, followed by a handful of other older children carrying full size Norwegian flags, and the school's marching band. After the band, the rest of the school children follow with hand-sized flags, often with the junior forms first, and often behind self-made banners for each form or even individual class. Nearby kindergartens may also have been invited to join in. As the parade passes, bystanders often join in behind the official parade, and follow the parade back to the school.\n\nDepending on the community, the parade may make stops at particular sites along the route, such as a nursing home or war memorial. In Oslo the parade stops at the Royal Palace while Skaugum, the home of the crown prince, has been a traditional waypoint for parades in Asker.\n\nDuring the parade a marching band will play and the children will sing lyrics about the celebration of the National Day. The parade concludes with the stationary singing of the national anthem \"Ja, vi elsker dette landet\" (typically verses 1, 7 and 8), and the royal anthem \"Kongesangen\".\n\nIn addition to flags, people typically wear red, white and blue ribbons. Although a long-standing tradition, it has lately become more popular for men, women and children to wear traditional outfits, called \"bunad\". The children also make a lot of noise shouting \"Hurra!\", singing, blowing whistles and shaking rattles.\n\nAll over Norway are memorials to the fallen at wars and to other notable national people honored with speeches and wreaths early in the morning. At many places (like in Oslo) at noon, salute is fired.\n\nIn addition to children's parades, there are parades for the public (\"borgertog\"), where every citizen is welcome to join in. These are led by marching bands and often local boy scouts and girl guides, local choirs, NGOs etc. This takes place in the early morning or in the afternoon, before or after the school's parade.\n\nAll parades begin or end with speeches. Both grown-ups and older children are invited to speak. After the parades, there are games for the children, and often a lot of ice cream, pop, sweets and hot-dogs are consumed.\n\nThe graduating class from videregående (upper secondary school, sixth form) the Norwegian equivalent of high school, known as russ, has its own celebration on May 17, staying up all night and making the rounds through the community. The russ also have their own parades later in the day, usually around 4 or 5 PM. In this parade, russ will parade through the street with their russebil (russ car) carrying signs and pickets. They may parody various local and political aspects, although recently this has become less frequent. Russ parades have lately become smaller and smaller due to diligent police discouragement.\n\nThe Constitution Day is celebrated in most small settlements and larger towns across Norway, with many variations.\n\nIn addition to the children's parades the streets across the country are filled with young and old, turning out in festive attire, and vendors selling ice cream, hot dogs, and lately, kebabs.\n\nAlthough May 17 is the National Day, foreigners are welcome to join in with all activities.\n\nSyttende Mai is also celebrated in many Norwegian immigrant communities throughout the world, with traditional foods, sometimes including lutefisk. In the United States and Canada, the local lodges of the Sons of Norway often play a central part in organizing the festivities.\n\nThe Bay Ridge neighborhood in Brooklyn, New York City has had an annual 17 May Parade and celebration since 1952. It is well-attended and celebrated by Norwegian-Americans who immigrated to Brooklyn in the early 20th century.\n\nOne major celebration occurs in Petersburg, Alaska also known as \"Little Norway\". The town is a Norwegian settlement and strongly retains its roots. The festival occurs the weekend closest to May 17 and includes a parade, Leikarring dancers, herring toss, Norwegian pastries such as lefse and even a pack of Vikings and Valkyries.\n\nAnother major Syttende Mai celebration occurs in Stoughton, Wisconsin which, along with Seattle, Washington, claims to be the 2nd largest in the world, and the largest in the U.S. Festivities include canoe racing, two parades, an art fair, a 20-mile run that starts in Madison, Wisconsin, and a great deal of bratwurst consumption. The festival features the Stoughton High School Norwegian Dancers, a group that tours the country showcasing traditional ethnic dances of Scandinavia.\n\nSmaller Syttende Mai celebrations are held in Norwegian-heritage communities throughout western Wisconsin, Minnesota, and elsewhere in the Midwestern United States. Members of Norway's Parliament Storting travel to Chicago to attend a three-day celebration consisting of a concert, banquet and parade hosted by the Norwegian National League. Spring Grove, Minnesota also hosts a 3-day festival on the weekend nearest to Syttende Mai, while nearby Decorah, Iowa, the home of Nordic Fest and the Vesterheim Norwegian-American Museum, also hosts a parade. Syttende Mai is also celebrated in Oswego, New York. Since 1969, the city of Westby in western Wisconsin has celebrated a four-day festival featuring authentic Norwegian foods, crafts, a \"frokost\" and Norwegian church service.\n\nOther large celebrations are held in the Ballard neighborhood of Seattle, Washington, (which also claims to be the largest Syttende Mai parade outside of Oslo) Poulsbo, Washington, and Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Epcot's Norwegian Pavilion in Florida, celebrates Constitution Day with numerous flags around the pavilion, as well as parades around the World Showcase Lagoon. Salt Lake City, Utah, holds its annual celebration at the International Peace Gardens where 400-700 people attend each year.\n\nThe Norwegian community in London holds a May 17 celebration each year in Southwark Park. The celebration is attended by a large number of Norwegians abroad, and includes a small parade, a traditional service in the church, and the selling of traditional Norwegian foods such as \"Solo\" and \"makrell i tomat\", and a lot of Norwegian flags for Norwegians who have left theirs at home. The occasional Russ has also attended the parade.\n\nIn Orkney, Scotland, 17. May is celebrated by the Orkney Norway Friendship Association in recognition of the islands' strong historic links with Norway, with similar celebrations taking place in neighbouring Shetland.\n\nIn Glasgow, Scotland, the 17th of May is celebrated at Murano Street Student Village where Norwegian students and their friends congregate to enjoy the traditional festivities of the day. This includes the wearing of Norwegian traditional colours as well as the consumption of copious amounts of alcoholic beverages.\n\nStockholm, Sweden, has a big celebration with a parade starting at Engelbrektsplan and ending at Skansen, in which more than 10,000 participate every year. The event includes Stockholm's only dedicated 17. May marching band, Det Norske Korps.\n\nIt is also common for Norwegians living abroad to gather and celebrate. In some countries, typically where the population of Norwegian expatriates is small, the Norwegian embassy or the diplomats' spouses arrange the event.\n\nIn New Zealand the 17th of May is celebrated in Fiordland, a small piece of Norway in the fjords and mountains of southwest New Zealand. All Fjordland buildings are made of eucaliptus and are inspired by Norwegian architecture. They have an exposition of photos and facts about Norway, typical food, and a presentation with six Fjord Horses making a choreography with Norwegian music Vi på Langedrag by Sigmund Groven.\n\nThe poet Henrik Wergeland is credited with making \"Søttende/Syttende mai\" a celebratory day for the children rather than a day of patriotic pride. Actually, the day demonstrates that the children, i.e. the country's future, \"are\" the patriotic pride, if we follow Wergeland's thought. Flags and music dominate the day, and there are few military parades. To commemorate his contribution, the russ in Oslo place an oversized hat on his statue near the Norwegian parliament; the Jewish community place a wreath on his grave in the morning as a tribute to his efforts on their behalf.\n\nThe Royal Guard performs on the main street of the capital city, Oslo. During the parade, the Guard display their drill and musical skills. The marching band of the Royal Guard also attend the children's parade in central Oslo together with the schools' own marching bands, their black uniforms and impeccable drill being a very popular part of the Oslo parade.\n\nForsvarets Musikkorps Vestlandet (Norwegian Armed Forces' Music Corps Western Norway), followed by parts of the military defence is participating the parade of Bergen.\n\nThe former Norwegian president of parliament Jo Benkow noted that the day has increasingly become a celebration of Norway's growing ethnic diversity.\n\nSeveral factors have probably contributed to the inclusive nature of the celebration:\n\nOne can add that the day should be regarded as an expression of thankfulness, on behalf of the old values freedom, equality and brotherhood, the ideological basis for the constitution, and also on behalf of the circumstances that led up to the constitution. The aspect of \"thanksgiving\" in the national celebrations of Norway is easily forgotten in the long span of years from 1814.\n\nThere has been dispute over whether foreign flags should be allowed in the parade. In 2008, the 17 May committee of Oslo banned the use of foreign flags, but was overturned by the mayor of Oslo, Fabian Stang. Similar discussions have taken place in other cities. In 2013, the 17 May committee of Ålesund turned down a request from a local school to use handmade paper flags that also included foreign flags. The decision was later overturned.\n\n"}
{"id": "36973610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36973610", "title": "Russians of Croatia", "text": "Russians of Croatia\n\nRussians of Croatia (, ) are one of 22 national minorities of Croatia. According to the 2011 Census, there were 1,279 Croatian citizens in the country, who identified themselves as Russians, most of them living in Zagreb.\n\nEthnic Russians in Croatia, who are citizens of Croatia, are expressly cited as one of 22 national minorities recognised by the Constitution of Croatia. According to 2011 Census, there were 1,279 Russians in Croatia. Historically, notable figures include: , a principal dancer and choreographer of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb; generals , and , who consecutively headed the Zagreb chapter of the Russian All-Military Union (ROVS); counter admiral who in 1931 took over as chairman of Zagreb′s chapter of the Union of Russian Officers; generals , and ; archbishop Germogen (Maximov), who became the primate of the Croatian Orthodox Church in 1942.\n\nSignificant numbers of Russians began to arrive in what is now the territory of Croatia in 1915 and were predominantly prisoners of the First World War jailed by Austria-Hungary on the island Goli Otok. Some of them died shortly thereafter, others returned to Soviet Russia, while the rest of them stayed. \n\nIn Crikvenica, an Orthodox church of St Nicholas was built in 1923–1924 specifically for Russian worshippers and survives as a building. There is also a ″Russian″ chapel in Zagreb′s Mirogoj cemetery, which was consecrated on 4 November 1928. Those were erected by White Russian exiles, mainly former Russian Imperial Army officers and intelligentsia, who had fled Russia and moved to what was then the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, as part of a massive Russian exodus that resulted from the Russian revolution in 1917 and the ensuing Civil War. Most of those refugees from the former Russian Empire did not initially intend to stay outside Russia permanently and hoped to return. \n\nThe government of the Kingdom of SHS in early 1920 established the State Commission for Russian Refugees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (that category then included all arrivals from the former Russian Empire irrespective of their actual ethnicity). But even before that, the government had appointed a special official who was charged with reception and accommodation of arrivals from Russia; the position was given to , a former senior official in the Russian Ministry of the Interior. Major Russian communities (″colonies″) were established in Dubrovnik, Split, Crikvenica, Zagreb, and some other towns in the early 1920s, while the majority of those arriving in the Kingdom eventually settled in Serbia. The government of the Kingdom of SHS explained its hospitality afforded to Russian exiles by presenting it as paying back the debt Serbia owed Russia for the latter′s intervention on the side of Serbia at the outbreak of WWI.\n\nThe first large group of mostly wealthy Russians arrived in Dubrovnik in March 1920 and some of those went further west. Russians arriving in Dubrovnik as refugees were sent on to Vojvodina, whereas those who arrived in Bakar (since December 1920) were mostly settled all over Croatia. Multiple Russian clubs, associations, as well as cultural, educational, political and professional institutions were founded in Zagreb. The Russian All-Military Union, an organisation set up by Gen Pyotr Wrangel in Karlovci in September 1924 that sought to embrace all the veterans of the Imperial Russian Armed Forces the world over, had an office in Zagreb. Zagreb′s Russian colony was in 1924 headed up by Stepan Stanislavovich Skovronsky and totaled about 2.000 members. For academic year 1922/1923, the University of Zagreb enrolled 232 students from Russia (10,10 percent of all those enrolled). According to the Kingdom′s Ministry of the Interior′s documents, the local population occasionally displayed hostility towards Russian refugees, usually due to the view that Russians were taking away jobs, but also due to the fact that the left-leaning strata of society tended to see all Russian émigrés as \"counter revolutionists\". In 1921, a Russian religious community was founded in Zagreb by admiral Vyatkin who chaired it until his death in 1943.\n\nAfter the German invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941 and the establishment of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH), the number of registered Russians who resided in the territory of the NDH totaled 5.000. In August 1941, the NDH government issued a directive that exempted Russians in the NDH from any discrimination or reprisals as long as they were politically loyal; political loyalty was to be certified by Russian colonies′ leadership, namely the Representation of Russian Emigration (\"Predstavništvo ruske emigracije\") in Zagreb. As early as in July 1941, a campaign was launched to recruit the Russians in the NDH to what would be in September instituted as the Separate Russian Corps (later known in German as \"Russisches Schutzkorps Serbien\"). The commander of the Corps, with headquarters in Belgrade, was Russian general Boris Shteifon, who died in Zagreb′s Esplanade hotel in April 1945 while leading his men to Austria. According to a report received by the Main Ustaša Headquarters in early 1942, in the territory of the NDH there were forty Russian colonies with about 5.500 people. Since most of the Russians in the NDH were of anti-Communist and anti-Soviet political orientation, a significant number of them had left Zagreb months before the end of WWII and the establishment of the Communist regime in Croatia, the final massive departures occurring in the autumn of 1944 and in early spring of 1945; a considerable number of those who stayed were later in 1945 subjected to reprisals and prosecution. All Russian clubs and associations were terminated after May 1945. Germogen (Maximov), along with three priests of the Croatian Orthodox Church, was court-martialled on 29 June 1945 and executed the next day.\n\nSome former citizens of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union left for the USSR, a move that was facilitated by the Decree of the Supreme Soviet of 14 June 1946. The situation for the Russians in Yugoslavia became still worse in 1948, following the Cominform Resolution of 28 June 1948 that resulted from the Tito–Stalin Split. Some Russians, who already had Yugoslavian citizenship, were stripped of it, especially in the summer and autumn of 1948; some were deported to the USSR as exposed Soviet spies. After 1948, Russians′ social and cultural life in Zagreb in any form virtually ceased.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia developed economic ties with the Soviet Union, which caused immigration of Soviets to Croatia, usually Soviet women through marriage. During the period of dissolution of Yugoslavia, Croatia′media created a negative perception of those residents of Croatia who were Orthodox Christians; teaching of the Russian language in schools was largely abandoned. Nevertheless, the number of Russians in Croatia nearly doubled in the period between 1991 and 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "643222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643222", "title": "Sabrina Harman", "text": "Sabrina Harman\n\nSabrina D. Harman (born January 5, 1978) is a former United States Army reservist, one of several persons convicted by the U.S. Army in connection with the 2003–2004 Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal in Baghdad, Iraq, during and after the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nHarman and several other soldiers were tried for allowing and inflicting sexual, physical, and psychological abuse of Iraqi prisoners of war. Harman held the rank of specialist in the 372nd Military Police company during her tour of duty in Iraq. She was sentenced to six months in prison, reduction in rank and a bad conduct discharge.\n\nHarman was imprisoned in the Naval Consolidated Brig, Miramar in San Diego, California.\n\nHarman was born in Lorton, Virginia. Her father was a homicide detective, and the family often saw photos of dead people at crime scenes. Harman's mother, Robin, has been described as a \"forensics buff.\" Harman graduated from Robert E. Lee High School in Springfield, Virginia.\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001 attacks, Harman joined the Army Reserves and was assigned to the Cresaptown, Maryland-based 372nd Military Police company. Harman worked for a time as an assistant manager at Papa John's Pizza in Alexandria, Virginia, before her company was activated for duty in Iraq in February 2003, and was deployed to Fort Lee, Virginia for additional training; however, this was in combat support, not I/R (military jargon for \"internment and resettlement.\"). While Harman acknowledged that she knew there was a lot of wrong being done, she claims she knew nothing about there being any official rules about prisoner treatment (i.e., the Geneva Conventions).\n\n\n\n[She] said she was assigned to break down prisoners for interrogation. \"They would bring in one to several prisoners at a time already hooded and cuffed,\" Harman said in interviews by e-mail this week from Baghdad. \"The job of the MP was to keep them awake, make it hell so they would talk.\" She said her military police unit took direction from the military intelligence officers in charge of the facility and from civilian contractors there who conducted interrogations.\n\n\nAs a soldier and military police officer, I failed my duties and failed my mission to protect and defend. I not only let down the people in Iraq, but I let down every single soldier that serves today. My actions potentially caused an increased hatred and insurgency towards the United States, putting soldiers and civilians at greater risk. I take full responsibility for my actions. ... The decisions I made were mine and mine alone.\n\nHarman's attorney said he hoped to see the military chain of command put on trial, rather than low-ranking reservists like Harman. \"I don't think we can even begin to imagine the kind of environment that she was in. First of all, she wasn't trained to be a prison guard, so she didn't even know the basic rules. She wasn't trained in military intelligence. I don't think any American can really truly appreciate the stress that existed along with the fact they were undermanned and not trained to perform this mission,\" he said.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41090423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41090423", "title": "Saharonim Prison", "text": "Saharonim Prison\n\nThe Saharonim Prison is an Israeli detention facility for African asylum seekers located in the Negev desert. It is the largest of a planned four camps with its total capacity of 8,000 inmates. Together with the Ktzi'ot prison, Sadot prison and the Nachal Raviv tent camp they detain South Sudanese, Sudanese and Eritrean asylum seekers who crossed the border from Egypt to Israel.\n\nSince 2010 provisions were made to detain the immigrants in the old Ktzi'ot Prison, formally used as a detention camp for Palestinians.\n\nOn January 10, 2012 the Israeli parliament (Knesset) voted a controversial amendment bill to the 1954 Prevention of Infiltration Law that made detention for up to three years possible for African immigrants, without trial. In the spring of 2012 the construction of the Saharonim Prison was started, exempt from most local and national regulations, as requested by the Israeli Defense Ministry.\n\nThe prison is located in the southern Negev desert, close to the Israeli-Egyptian border. \nThe region is known for its harsh living conditions both in summer as in winter.\n\nOn June 24, 2013 a hunger strike was started by 350 mostly Eritrean detainees in blocks 3 and 4 of the prison.\nIn a letter by one of the hunger strikers that was published in Hebrew, described their encounter with immigration authority officers during the hunger strike:\nAs of September 2013 there were around 1,800 refugees imprisoned, 1,400 of them in Saharonim and 400 in Ktziot.\n\nIn September 2013 the Supreme Court of Israel ruled that imprisoning African migrants for long periods, is unconstitutional.\n\nThe court also ruled that migrants, refugees and asylum seekers detained in the Ktziot and Saharonim prisons should be released within 90 days and those that cross the border illegally can only be detained for one year in the future.\nThe Israeli government has responded by passing an amended law to reduce the period of detention to one year and proposed the indefinite detention in \"open\" detention centers without judicial review.\n\nAs of January 2014, some 2,500 asylum seekers are housed at Saharonim and Ktziot prisons, 41 of them children imprisoned with their parents. Of these, 15 are infants and toddlers up to the age of two, and 26 are children up to the age of 10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2069275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069275", "title": "Saint Kitts Creole", "text": "Saint Kitts Creole\n\nSaint Kitts Creole is a dialect of Leeward Caribbean Creole English spoken in Saint Kitts and Nevis by around 40,000 people. Saint Kitts Creole does not have the status of an official language.\n\nSaint Kitts Creole has much the same history as other English Caribbean creoles. Its origin lies in 17th-century enslaved West Africans, who, when brought to the islands to work on sugar plantations, were forced to learn British English quickly because their labour required it. Their English was mixed with West African words and, in some cases, West African language structure. The French, who occupied the island from 1625 to 1713, had only a small impact on the creole spoken today, unlike in the formerly French islands of Dominica and Saint Lucia, which speak a French-based rather than English-based creole.\n\nSaint Kitts Creole today is spoken on the islands of St. Kitts and Nevis (although Nevisians refer to the language as \"Nevisian\" or \"Nevis creole\"), mainly in rural areas, and is spoken especially heavily in Capesterre, Christ Church Nichola Town, Cayon, and Nevis. Today's use of the creole involves a higher proportion of Standard English, possibly due to access to foreign media. Usually, only residents in rural areas and Nevis are strong creole users, although mesolectal forms of the language are employed by the majority of the population. Popular Jamaican culture and music have also played a role, as Jamaican idioms are being used more and more in the Saint Kitts creole, as well as throughout the region.\n\nSaint Kitts pronunciation is similar to the pronunciation on the neighbouring islands of Antigua and Montserrat, but with slight differences that are mostly noticeable only to residents of the Leeward Islands.\n\nSaint Kitts Creole is pronounced similarly to the creoles of neighbouring islands, namely Antigua and Montserrat. Usually only longtime residents in the islands can mark the slight differences. In rural areas and in Nevis, (as in \"house\") is usually pronounced (as in \"hose\").\n\nIn Saint Kitts Creole, words are rarely pluralized by adding an ending to the word. The word is usually followed by the word \"dem\" to indicate the pluralization. e.g. \"de gyul dem\" - \"the girls\". Note that if the Standard English form of the word is not pluralized with an \"s\", e.g. \"children\", the plural form of the word in Saint Kitts creole will be the Standard English plural form followed by \"dem\", e.g. \"children dem\".\n\nQuestions ending in \"is it?\" have the \"is it\" replaced with \"y be\" (\"i bee\"); e.g. Who is it? - \"Who y be?\" What is it? - \"Wha y be?\"\n\nWords used to intensify adjectives, such as \"very\" and \"extremely\", are rarely used. Instead, the adjective in question is repeated; for example: \"De gyul look bad bad\" - \"The girl looks very ugly.\" Alternatively, the phrase \"so tail\" is placed after the adjective to indicate a strong emphasis or intensification; for example: \"De gyul look bad so tail\" - \"The girl looks extremely ugly.\"\n\nA unique aspect of Saint Kitts Creole is to end certain sentences in the speech with the words \"burdee\", \"poopa\" or \"daady buh\", the meaning of which vary with context but tend to be used to emphasise the sentence they attach to; for example: \"Tall poopa\" - \"not at all\" (extreme). \"Hush buhdee\" - \"hush buddy\" (used when extremely annoyed).\n\nThe word \"does\" is often traditionally inserted where it would not appear in Standard English sentence structure.\n\n\"I does only buy taman jam from she.\" I only buy tamarind jam from her.\n\n\"Whey yuh does be goin erry mawnin?\" Where do you go each morning?\n\n\"I does do dah too.\" I also do that.\n\n\"Yuh does guh by dey house?\" Do you visit their home?\n\nExamples of other linguistic divergences from Standard English are\n\n\"Ah does buy it\". I usually buy it.\n\n\"Ah did buy it.\" I bought it.\n\n\"Ah done buy it\". I already bought it. Also can be said as - \"Ah did buy it arready\".\n\n\"Ah goin buy it\". I will buy it.\n\n\"Ah goin guh buy it.\" I am on my way to buy it.\n\n\"Ahwee/Awe a go dung by e fiel by d house go pik nuts.\" - We are going down to the field by the house to pick peanuts.\n\n\"Is dey dem pikni does wash dem skin.\" - There is where the children bathe (their skin).\n\n\"Unno kno who e tis u a play wit u kno.\" - You do not know with whom you are messing.\n\nSome of the Saint Kitts Creole words listed below are unique, but others are commonly used in or originated from neighbouring islands.\n\n\nO Me Monkeys!= O My!\n\nAh Geed= Yuck!\n\nBoy Aye!= Aw Man!\n\nEnt it?=Isn't that so\n\nWha Mek?=How Come\n\nM'ain know=I don't know\n\nLef Me=Leave me alone\n\nTek een=Faint/pass out\n\nAr-you/Awu=You all\n\nArwee/Awe=Us\n\nStop play=Stop kidding around\n\nY'ain hear=I know right\n\nE suit you=Serves you right\n\nIn deh, in deh!= Take that\n\nDem= Them\n\nDey=They\n\n\"Sorry fuh mawgah dawg, mawgah dawg tun roun bite yuh\" - If you extend your charity to undeserving persons, they will be ungrateful/you will regret it.\n\n\"Pig bin arkse e mammee wha mek im mout suh lang, e mammee tell im wyait fuh time\" - When you are older you will understand.\n\n\"Two man crab cyarn liv een de same hole\" - you can't have two persons in charge in a small environment.\n\n\"Monkey nah wha tree to jump pon\" - People know who they can trouble/mess with.\n\n"}
{"id": "23903884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903884", "title": "Shahsevan", "text": "Shahsevan\n\nThe Shahsevan (), are a branch of the Turkic Oghuz groups, sub-ethnic group of Azerbaijani people, located primarily in Iran and on the territory of the present-day Republic of Azerbaijan. The name \"Shahsevan\" means \"adherents of the Shah\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5545001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5545001", "title": "Shreni", "text": "Shreni\n\n\"Shreni\", in the context of Ancient India was an association of traders, merchants, and artisans. Generally, a separate shreni existed for a particular group of persons engaged in the same vocation or activity. Shrenis have sometimes been compared with the guilds. However, persons engaged in life destroying activities like hunting and fishing did not form any shreni.\n\nWell documented references to the existing of shreni have been found from 5th century BC, and texts pertaining to Buddhism and Jainism mention existence of shrenis and conversion of entire members of some shrenis to Buddhism or Jainism. Over a period of time, some shrenis became very wealthy with surplus resources, and acted as custodians and bankers of religious and other endowments. One of the widely referred shreni was of ivory carvers of Vidisha (located in the modern Indian state of Madhya Pradesh). This shreni is accredited with sponsoring and financially supporting the construction of the southern gateway of the Stupa at Sanchi, which is currently a World Heritage Site.\n\nSome scholars have opined that as the each economic activity and craft was having its specific traditions and trade secrets, shrenis were formed to protect the same, and fathers used to pass on the same to their sons, and so it continued from one generation to the next generation. Daughters were excluded from becoming the members of the shreni, as once married they went to their husbands’ homes, and were prone to divulge the trade secrets to the families of their husbands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13766203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13766203", "title": "South Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today", "text": "South Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today\n\nSouth Park and Philosophy: You Know, I Learned Something Today is the first non-fiction book in Blackwell Publishing Company’s Philosophy & Pop Culture series and is edited by philosopher and ontologist, Robert Arp, at the time assistant professor of philosophy at Southwest Minnesota State University. The series itself is edited by William Irwin, who is a professor of philosophy at King's College, Pennsylvania in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The book utilizes the five classic branches of Western philosophy, namely, metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, political philosophy, and logic, in order to analyze episodes of \"South Park\" as well as place the show in a context of current popular culture.\n\nThe book was published December 1, 2006. The following year, \"\"—volume 26 of Open Court Publishing Company's Popular Culture and Philosophy series—was published, with editing by philosopher Richard Hanley.\n\nThe book includes contributions from twenty-two academics in the field of philosophy. Topics include issues of sexuality involved in depicting Saddam Hussein and Satan as gay lovers, existentialism as applied to the death of Kenny, and a debate about whether feminists can enjoy the show due to some of its misogynistic characters. The contributors to the work utilize philosophical concepts derived from Plato, Aristotle, Freud and Sartre and place them in a \"South Park\" context.\n\nThe book's contributors all attempted to analyze the philosophical and cultural aspects of \"South Park\" in the work. One of the authors, David Koepsell, wrote about the controversial episode dealing with Scientology, entitled: \"Trapped in the Closet\". Koepsell cited the fact that the series won a Peabody Award due to its willingness to criticize intolerance in April 2006 as a \"special concern for criticizing and countering intolerance\", and the notion that \"the Church of Scientology suffers from the widely held perceptions that it seeks to silence former members and others who criticize its beliefs and practices\" as the motivation behind the episode. Koepsell analyzed Comedy Central's reaction to the episode itself, in a section of his book entitled \"2005–2006: Comedy Central Caves\". He mentions \"South Park's\" usage of the onscreen caption \"this is what Scientologists actually believe\". in the episode, noting that the same device was used in the episode \"All About the Mormons?\". In referencing this similar use of the onscreen caption device, Koepsell seemed to point to an inconsistency in the behavior of Comedy Central relative to the episode. He explained \"By a long shot, this show was more kind to Scientology than was \"All About the Mormons\" to Mormonism.\" He noted Comedy Central had suggested it would not rebroadcast the episode for the second time, though it later announced on July 12, 2006 that it would.\n\nA review in \"The Boston Herald\" called the work an \"indispensable collection of thought-provoking essays\". The book was featured on \"The Book Show\" radio program on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Host Lynne Mitchell wrote that most of the contributors to the book succeeded in teaching philosophy to the reader while discussing the various \"South Park\" episodes. However Mitchell also commented that she was annoyed by a pretend interview by the editor with the creators of \"South Park\", which she felt was made up in \"a kind of South Park pastiche\". A review in \"Publishers Weekly\" stated that \"some of the writers' attempts at lowbrow humor can be embarrassingly off-mark\", but also noted that pop-philosophy devotees and South Park fans with a philosophical bent will enjoy the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "2112097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112097", "title": "South Sea Islanders", "text": "South Sea Islanders\n\nIn an Australian context, South Sea Islanders refers to Australian descendants of Pacific Islanders from more than 80 islands in the South Seasincluding the Melanesian archipelagoes of the Solomon Islands, New Caledonia and Vanuatuwho were kidnapped or recruited between the mid to late 19th century as labourers in the sugarcane fields of Queensland. Some were kidnapped or tricked (or \"blackbirded\") into long-term indentured service. At its height, the recruiting accounted for over half the adult male population of some islands.\n\nThere were 60,000 people who were kidnapped or “blackbirded” \n\nThese people were generally referred to as Kanakas, which means \"man\", although many Islander descendants now regard the term as pejorative and an insulting reminder of their ancestors' exploitation at the hands of white planters.\n\nWith time, owing to intermarriage, many Australian South Sea Islanders also claim a mixed ancestry, including Aboriginals, Torres Strait Islanders and immigrants from the South Pacific Islands.\n\nOf some 55,000 to 62,500 Islanders recruited, around 10,000 remained in Australia in 1901. The majority were repatriated by the Australian Government in the period between 1906 and 1908 under the \" Pacific Island Labourers Act 1901\", a piece of legislation related to the White Australia policy. There was resistance to repatriation, and controversy regarding the manner in which it was done.\n\nThose exempted from repatriation, along with a number of others who escaped deportation, remained in Australia to form the basis of what is today Australia's largest non-indigenous black ethnic group. Today, the descendants of those who remained are officially referred to as South Sea Islanders. A 1992 census of South Sea Islanders reported around 10,000 descendants living in Queensland. Fewer than 3,500 were reported in the 2001 Australian census.\n\nThe question of how many Islanders were \"blackbirded\" is unknown and remains controversial. The extent to which Islanders were recruited legally, persuaded, deceived, coerced or forced to leave their homes and travel to Queensland is difficult to evaluate and also controversial. Official documents and accounts from the period often conflict with the oral tradition passed down to the descendants of workers. Stories of blatantly violent kidnapping tend to relate to the first ten or so years of the trade.\n\nIn recent generations, facing many similar forms of discrimination in Australia as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, Australian South Sea Islanders have been prominent figures in civil rights and politics. Faith Bandler, Evelyn Scott and Bonita Mabo (widow of Eddie Mabo) are prominent Indigenous activists who are also descendants of South Sea Island plantation workers. Stephen Andrew, who represents One Nation in the Queensland Parliament, was the first South Sea Islander to be elected to parliament.\n\nAnother area Australian South Sea Islanders have excelled in is sport, especially the game of rugby league. Australian international representatives Mal Meninga, Sam Backo, and Gorden Tallis are all members of the Australian South Sea Islander community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12857883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12857883", "title": "Suitcase scandal", "text": "Suitcase scandal\n\nThe maletinazo, valijagate, or \"suitcase scandal\" was a 2007 scandal involving Venezuela and Argentina, souring friendship between the countries.\n\nThe scandal began when , a Venezuelan-US entrepreneur, arrived in Argentina on a private flight, hired by Argentine and Venezuelan state officials, carrying US$800,000 in cash which he failed to declare.\n\nVenezuela had enacted strict foreign currency controls in 2003. CADIVI, the commission established by the Venezuelan government to regulate currency, prohibits taking more than US$10,000 in cash out of the country without declaring the money. Individual Venezuelans could only take US$500 or €400 cash out of the country in a single trip and there was a yearly quota of US$2,500 on credit card expenditures; a special government permit is needed to take additional US dollars out of the country.\n\nThe scandal escalated with suggestions that: Wilson was part of Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez's personal entourage; the money was meant to help finance, and thus influence, the Argentine presidential candidate Cristina Fernández de Kirchner; the money was meant to bribe Argentine officials in energy deals for Venezuelan natural gas; or, the suitcase was intended for money-laundering. No allegations were proven and the case was closed in 2015 due to the statute of limitations.\n\nThe scandal gained further notoriety when María del Luján Telpuk, the Argentine airport police officer who discovered the unreported currency, posed naked a few months later in the Argentine and Venezuelan versions of \"Playboy\" magazine.\n\nThe word Maletinazo comes from \"maletín\" (the Spanish word for suitcase or briefcase) and the suffix \"-azo\" which implies intensity or magnitude. The scandal is also known as \"valijagate\", \"maletagate\" and \"maletíngate\" (following the -gate construction and the Spanish word \"maleta\" or \"valija\" for suitcase or briefcase).\n\nPresident Hugo Chávez was planning to visit Argentina in August 2007 to refinance billions of United States dollars in Argentine debt through bond purchases and announce a natural gas deal.\n\nOn 4 August 2007, Guido Alejandro Antonini Wilson, a Venezuelan-US entrepreneur claiming to be part of Chávez's entourage, arrived in Argentina on a private plane chartered from Royal Class by Argentine and Venezuelan state officials, carrying US$790,550 in cash. He did not declare the money upon arrival and the police seized the money. Other Venezuelan passengers on the plane included Ruth Behrens, Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) representative in Uruguay; Nelly Cardozo, legal assessor of that company; Wilfredo Ávila, a protocol official; and Daniel Uzcategui Specht, son of PDVSA vice-president Diego Uzcateguil, and Maria Isabel Specht, Technology and Engineering Manager of Citgo Petroleum Corporation in Houston, Texas. Others on that flight were Exequiel Espinosa, president of Enarsa, Claudio Uberti of OCCOVI (Argentina's Highway Commission), and Victoria Bereziuk, Uberti's secretary. Although officials originally called it a simple infraction and released Antonini Wilson, both Argentine and Venezuelan officials called for an investigation.\n\nChávez arrived in Argentina on 6 August 2007, as part of a tour to sign oil deals with several South American countries. Antonini Wilson was in the signing ceremony between the presidents of Argentina and Venezuela that took place in the presidential palace, also known as the \"Casa Rosada\". On 8 August, the Argentine senate demanded a report on the incident. An Argentine judge later ordered the arrest of Antonini Wilson and he faced charges for money laundering and contraband.\n\nInitially, Argentine judge Marta Novatti took the case but she quickly resigned from the investigation. The Argentine government fired one of the state officials who was on the plane, the head of Road Deal Controls, Claudio Uberti. Argentine Minister of Planning, Julio de Vido, declared that Uberti was the \"political responsible for that flight\"; Uberti was fired.\n\nThe Argentine minister of interior, Fernández, declared the Senate's attempts to ask for a report on an individual, even if it is a crime case. He said the demand was politically motivated (referring to upcoming elections in Argentina).\n\nPDVSA announced an internal investigation to determine why four of their officials were traveling with Antonini Wilson.\n\nOn 13 August 2007, Federal judge Diego Zysman stepped aside from the case, becoming the second judge to renounce investigating the case. Judge Novatti was notified by the Judicial Chamber of Economic Cases on 14 August 2007, that she had to take back the case.\n\nThe Bolivian government declared the plane carrying to Buenos Aires only flew over Bolivia and did not land there, after some suggestions by Venezuelan officials that the money might have come from Bolivia (it would have been illegal to take that amount of money from Venezuela under current currency control laws.\n\nAccording to documents from the Supreme Court of Justice of Venezuela from 8 December 2004, an associate of Antonini, sold police equipment through a Venezuelan company Ruibal & Duran to the governor of Cojedes state, Johny Yánez, who days before declared that he did not have anything to do with Antonini. \"Clarín\" newspaper said Antonini had accompanied Yánez on a visit to Uruguay in September 2006.\n\nArgentina sent an arrest warrant to Interpol for the arrest of Antonini; Interpol released a capture order for the offense of fraud.\n\nThe investigation in Argentina generated doubt regarding the behavior of members of the Kirchner administration. The investigation is also trying to determine why Enarsa spent $90,000 for a charter flight, and why Antonini Wilson was allowed to leave Argentina outbound to Uruguay.\n\nVenezuela has had strict foreign currency controls since 2003. CADIVI is the commission established by the government to regulate currency; it prohibits taking more than US$10,000 in cash out of the country without declaring the money. Venezuelans can only take US$500 or €400 cash out of the country in a single trip and there is a yearly quota of US$2,500 on credit card expenditures; a special government permit is needed to take additional US dollars out of the country.\n\nAccording to \"El Nuevo Herald\" and \"El Universal\", Antonini Wilson owns a condo in Ocean Club, Key Biscayne, Florida; together with Wladimir Abad, he is registered as owner of a building located in Mashta Avenue, in Key Biscayne, valued at $US3.96 million. Wladimir Abad is the secretary of American Food Grain (AFG), a part of a Venezuelan holding called Proarepa, owned by Sarkis Arslanian Beyloune and Ricardo Fernández Barrueco. Proarepa was in charge of the food distribution during Venezuela's oil strike of 2002, when Chávez signed contracts for food distribution. According to the Venezuelan Government Press Office, Proarepa is a private company that has \"joined this mission (Mission Mercal) to offer food and better price to the Venezuelan consumer\". According to \"El Nuevo Herald\", Antonini Wilson's name is linked to other companies in southern Florida, such as Venuz Supply Inc., Intertel Telecom and Techmilk Inc.; \"La Nación\" says that Antonini is among a group of businessmen who benefited economically during the administration of Hugo Chávez. In May 2007, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) confiscated a jet belonging to American Food Grain. The report, according to \"The Miami Herald\", says Ricardo Fernández Barruecos had not respected federal norms to register the plane in the United States.\n\nBeginning in late August 2007, Antonini Wilson cooperated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, resulting in the \"indictment of four Venezuelans and a Uruguayan\". In December 2007, the \"St. Petersburg Times\" reported that, according to prosecutors, \"Antonini was delivering the money to the election campaign of Argentine President Cristina Fernandez\", with \"Venezuelan and Argentine officials accusing Washington of fabricating a scandal to destabilize left-wing governments in the region.\" The \"Wall Street Journal\" also reported that: \"U.S. prosecutors in Miami announced the arrest of three Venezuelans and a Uruguayan who allegedly schemed to silence Mr. Antonini about the Venezuelan contribution to the Kirchner campaign. An indictment charges the men—and a fifth who is a fugitive—with operating as Venezuelan agents unlawfully, without having notified the U.S. attorney general. In a court hearing, a U.S. attorney said Mr. Antonini is now cooperating with the investigation and wore a wire to record subsequent encounters with the alleged Venezuelan agents, who offered him $2 million in hush money, while also threatening his family if he didn't keep quiet.\"\n\nOn 13 December 2007 the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) arrested three Venezuelans and one Uruguayan, accusing them of being agents of the Venezuelan government who intended for Antonini to help cover up the scandal over the money that was intended for \"a candidate\" in the Argentine presidential elections of 2007.\n\nThe Assistant U.S. Attorney in charge of the case, Thomas Mulvihill, said that one of the arrested individuals, Franklin Durán, had declared that the money was for the then-presidential candidate Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.\n\nThe Ambassador of the United States to Argentina assured that the event had nothing to do with the Argentina-United States relations.\n\nCristina Fernández de Kirchner responded to the investigation led by the United States by dubbing it \"operación basura\" (a \"trashing operation\").\n\nThe Venezuelan ambassador in Buenos Aires declared that Antonini Wilson had nothing to do with the Venezuelan embassy.\n\nArgentine President Néstor Kirchner declared his government had nothing to do with the affair, and that there was no coverup. Venezuela's Minister of Foreign Affairs declared during the third meeting of Petrocaribe, \"why is there such a scandal? Every day things like this happen in all the countries of the world\". He said the reason for the publicity was that \"some powerful people in Washington are very nervous because we are progressing in giant steps towards the union of South American countries, of the Caribbean union. They are afraid and they tremble\".\n\nThe head of PDVSA, Ramírez, declared \"the media is trying to put PDVSA in a bad light for events that are 'completely false'\", referring to the recent denouncements of corruption at the state oil company. He said \"we see how there is premeditated attempt to publicly lynch our institution and our workers for facts that have not been supported or proved\". The second vice-president of Venezuela's parliament, Roberto Hernández, declared on 10 August that those PDVSA managers who accompanied Antonini Wilson should be fired.\n\nThe crisis prompted the Argentine government to ask Chávez to fire the person responsible for PDVSA in Argentina. The PDVSA official's son had accompanied Antonini Wilson to the flight. Other high officials from the Venezuelan and Argentine governments were present.\n\nThe Venezuelan Minister of Interior declared that if there were a crime in cooperation with public functionaries, \"the State does not have to assume any responsibility because responsibility is individual\". He said it is false the Argentine government was asking for the vice-president of PDVSA—Diego Uzcátegui, whose son was traveling with Guido Antonini—to be fired.\n\nOn 18 August, President Chávez declared he had nothing to hide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1448412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448412", "title": "Takfiri", "text": "Takfiri\n\nA takfiri ( \"\") is a Muslim who accuses another Muslim (or an adherent of another Abrahamic faith) of apostasy. The accusation itself is called \"takfir\", derived from the word \"kafir\" (unbeliever), and is described as when \"one who is a Muslim is declared impure.\"\n\nIf a person (or a group) claims to be Muslim but deny any of the basic tenets of Islam, then the one who declares them kafir, is not counted as takfiri. This is used for groups like the Ahmadiyya, who are considered kafir by many Muslims because they deny the basic tenet, The Finality of Prophethood. Accusing other Muslims of being takfiris has become a sectarian slur (used most often by Shia Muslims against Salafis, Wahhabis, Sunni terrorists and any general Sunnis who claim that Shia are kuffar, making killing them allowed by Islamic doctrine), particularly since the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War in 2011.\n\nIn principle, the only group authorised to declare a member of an Abrahamic religion a kafir (unbeliever) is the ulema, and this is only done once all the prescribed legal precautions have been taken. However, a growing number of splinter Wahhabist/Salafist groups, classified by some scholars as Salafi-Takfiris, have split from the orthodox method of establishing takfir through the processes of the Sharia. They have reserved to themselves the right to declare any Muslim an apostate, as well as any non-Muslim.\n\nTakfiris have been classified by some commentators as violent offshoots of the Salafi movement, yet while Salafism is seen as a form of 'fundamentalist Islam', it is not an inherently violent movement that condones terrorism. Takfiris, on the other hand, condone acts of violence as legitimate methods of achieving religious or political goals. Middle East expert Robert Baer has written that\n\"\"takfiri\" generally refers to a Sunni Muslim who looks at the world in black-and-white; there are true believers and then there are nonbelievers, with no shades in between. A \"takfiri\"'s mission is to re-create the Caliphate according to a literal interpretation of the Qur'an.\"Takfiris are Sunni radicals and suicide bombers (such as ISIL, Taleban, Boko Haram, al-Shabab, Sepah-e Sahaba, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, etc.) who are labeling Christians, Yazidis, Syrian Alawites, Hindus, Shias and even ordinary Sunni populations as kafirs or infidels before killing them.\n\nTakfiris believe in Islam strictly according to their own interpretation of Muhammad's and his companions' actions and statements, and do not accept any deviation from their path; they reject any reform or change to their interpretation of religion as it was revealed in the time of the prophet. Those who change their religion from Islam to any other way of life, or deny any of the fundamental foundations of Islam, or who worship, follow or obey anything other than Islam, become those upon whom the takfiris declare the \"takfir\", calling them apostates from Islam and therefore no longer Muslim.\n\nAccording to at least one source (Trevor Stanley), the precedent \"for the declaration of takfir against a leader\" came from the Medieval Islamic scholar Taqi al-Din Ibn Taymiyyah, who issued a famous fatwa declaring jihad against the invading Mongols. This was not because they were invading but because they were apostates, apostasy from Islam being punishable by death. Though the Mongols had converted to Islam, Ibn Taymiyyah reasoned that since they followed their traditional Yassa law rather than Islamic Sharia law, they were not really Muslims and were thus apostates. More recently the 18th-century Islamic Revivalist Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab and 20th-century Muslim authors Maulana Maududi and Sayyid Qutb, referred to Ibn Taymiyyah when condemning self-proclaimed Muslims as not being real Muslims. Al-Wahhab condemned the practices of Shia, Sufi and other Muslims as bid'a (innovation of the religion), and al-Wahhab's followers slew many Muslims for allegedly pagan (\"kufr\") practices. In his influential book \"Milestones,\" Sayyid Qutb argued not that some Muslims should no longer be considered Muslims, but that the failure of the world Muslim community to obey Shariah law meant, \"the Muslim community has been extinct for a few centuries,\"having fallen back into a state of pagan ignorance\" (\"jahiliyyah\").\n\nElie Podeh distinguishes between conservative Islamists, \"jihadi\" Muslims, and takfiri groups. Like jihadis, takfiri groups advocate armed struggle against the secular regime, invoking the concepts of \"jahiliyya,\" \"al-hakimiyya\" (God's sovereignty), and \"al-takfir\" (branding as apostate). However, takfiri groups are more extreme, regarding the whole of Egyptian society as kafir, for instance, and therefore completely disengaging from it. Also unlike jihadis, takfiri groups (according to Podeh) make no distinction between the regime and the ordinary population when employing violence.\n\nTakfiris also reject the traditional Muslim duty to obey one's legitimate rulers in all manners that do not contradict the Sharia, as sedition is viewed as a great danger to a nation. However, Takfiris consider all political authority that does not abide by their interpretation of Islam to be illegitimate and therefore apostate; this view closely mirrors Qutb's views on jahiliyyah. As such, violence against such regimes is considered legitimate.\n\nIn his books \"Risālah Aslu Dīn Al-Islām wa Qā’idatuhu\" and \"Kashf ush-Shubuhaat\" (\"Clarification Of The Doubts\"), Muhammad ibn Abdul-Wahhāb makes an explicit takfir of people who invoke or implore for help from dead people (such as the prophet and his family) or in other words, intercede for themselves with God by seeking intercession from the prophet and his family.\n\nTakfiri views on suicide also differ significantly from those of orthodox Islam. Takfiris believe that one who deliberately kills himself whilst attempting to kill enemies is a martyr (\"shahid\") and therefore goes straight to heaven. According to this, all sin is absolved when a person is martyred, allowing carte blanche for the indiscriminate killing of non-combatants, for example. \nOpponents of the takfiris often view them as modern-day analogues of the Khawarij, a seventh-century offshoot Islamic sect which waged war against the Caliphate.\n\nThe term \"takfiri\" was brought to a more public prominence by the BBC investigative journalist Peter Taylor, in his 2005 BBC television series \"The New Al Qaeda\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "666923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666923", "title": "The Lost World: Jurassic Park", "text": "The Lost World: Jurassic Park\n\nThe Lost World: Jurassic Park is a 1997 American science fiction adventure film and the second installment in the \"Jurassic Park\" film series. A sequel to 1993's \"Jurassic Park\", the film was directed by Steven Spielberg and written by David Koepp, loosely based on Michael Crichton's 1995 novel \"The Lost World\". The film was produced by Gerald R. Molen and Colin Wilson. Actor Jeff Goldblum returns as the chaos-theorist and eccentric mathematician Ian Malcolm, leading a cast that includes Julianne Moore, Pete Postlethwaite, Vince Vaughn, Vanessa Lee Chester, and Arliss Howard. Goldblum is the only actor from the previous film to return with a major role. Cameos feature return appearances by Richard Attenborough as John Hammond and a brief appearance by Joseph Mazzello and Ariana Richards as Hammond's grandchildren Tim and Lex.\n\nThe story is set four years after the events of the original film and centers on the fictional Central American island of Isla Sorna, off the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, where the cloned dinosaurs made by John Hammond's InGen have been roaming free in their own ecosystem. Learning that his nephew, who took control of InGen, is planning to capture the Isla Sorna dinosaurs and bring them to the mainland, Hammond sends an expedition led by Dr. Ian Malcolm to arrive there before InGen's squad. The two groups confront each other in the face of extreme danger and then team up in order to survive.\n\nAfter the original book's release and the first film's success, Crichton was pressured by fans for a novel sequel. After the book was published in 1995, production began on a film sequel. Filming occurred from September to December 1996, primarily in California, while also including a shoot in Kauai, Hawaii, where the previous film was shot. \"The Lost World\"s plot and imagery is substantially darker than the previous film, and the film has more extensive usage of computer-generated imagery to depict the dinosaurs, along with life-sized animatronics. The film received mixed reviews and grossed over $618 million worldwide. A sequel, \"Jurassic Park III\", was released on July 18, 2001.\n\nOn Isla Sorna, an island off the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, a young girl named Cathy Bowman wanders around during a family vacation, and survives an attack by a swarm of \"Compsognathus\". Her parents file a lawsuit against the genetics company InGen, now headed by John Hammond's nephew, Peter Ludlow, who plans to use Isla Sorna to alleviate the financial losses imposed by the incident that occurred at Jurassic Park four years earlier. Mathematician Dr. Ian Malcolm meets Hammond at his mansion. Hammond explains that Isla Sorna, abandoned years earlier during a hurricane, is where InGen created their dinosaurs before moving them to Jurassic Park on Isla Nublar. Hammond hopes to stop InGen by sending a team to Isla Sorna to document the dinosaurs, thus causing public support against human interference on the island. Ian, who survived the Jurassic Park disaster, is reluctant. After learning that his girlfriend, paleontologist Dr. Sarah Harding, is part of the team and is already on Isla Sorna, Ian agrees to go to the island, but only to retrieve her.\n\nIan meets his teammates, Eddie Carr, an equipment specialist and engineer, and Nick Van Owen, a video documentarian and activist. After arriving on the island, they locate Sarah and discover that Ian's daughter, Kelly, had stowed away in a trailer being used as a mobile base. They then watch as another InGen team – consisting of mercenaries, hunters, paleontologist Robert Burke, and Ludlow – arrive to capture several dinosaurs, led by big game hunter Roland Tembo, his second-in-command Dieter Stark, and Roland’s hunting partner and friend Ajay Sidhu. Roland hopes to capture a male \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" by luring it to the cries of its injured infant. That night, Ian's team sneak into the InGen camp and learn the captured dinosaurs will be brought to a newly proposed theme park in San Diego that was abandoned for the islands. This prompts Nick and Sarah to free the caged dinosaurs, wreaking havoc upon the camp.\n\nNick also frees the infant \"T. rex\" and takes it to the trailer to mend its broken leg. After securing Kelly with Eddie, Ian realizes the infant's parents are searching for it and rushes to the trailer. As soon as Ian arrives, the infant's parents emerge on both sides of the trailer. The infant is released to the adult \"T. rexes\", which then attack the trailer, pushing it over the edge of a nearby cliff. Eddie soon arrives, but as he tries to pull the trailer back over the edge with an SUV, the adult \"T. rexes\" return and devour him. The trailer and the SUV plummet off the cliff. Ian, Sarah, and Nick are rescued by the InGen team, along with Kelly. With both groups' communications equipment and vehicles destroyed, they team up to search for the old InGen compound's radio station on foot. Dieter, after being lost in the forest, is killed by a pack of \"Compsognathus\".\n\nThe next night, the two adult \"T. rexes\" find the group's camp, as they had followed the infant's blood scent on Sarah's jacket. The female \"T. rex\" chases the group to a waterfall cave and devours Burke, while Roland tranquilizes the male. Ajay and much of the remaining InGen team is killed by \"Velociraptors\" while fleeing through an elephant grass field. Nick runs ahead to the communications center at the InGen Worker's Village to call for rescue. After Ian, Sarah and Kelly reach the village, they evade raptors until a helicopter arrives and transports them, along with Nick, off the island.\n\nA freighter ship transports the male \"T. rex\" to San Diego, but crashes into the dock. After finding the ship's crew killed, a guard opens the cargo hold, accidentally releasing the \"T. rex\", which escapes into the city and goes on a destructive rampage. Ian and Sarah retrieve the infant \"T. rex\" from InGen's unfinished Jurassic Park San Diego facility, and use it to lure the adult back to the ship. Ludlow tries to intervene, but is trapped in the cargo hold and maimed by the adult \"T. rex\", and then subsequently mauled to death by the infant. Before the adult can escape again, Sarah tranquilizes it while Ian closes the cargo hold doors. The \"T. rexes\" are escorted back to Isla Sorna, and Hammond says that the American and Costa Rican governments have agreed to declare the island a nature preserve, securing the island from any human interference. While Ian sits safe at home with his family, the \"T. rexes\" are seen grazing with their infant as Hammond affirms \"life will find a way\".\n\n\nWhile \"Jurassic Park\" featured mostly the animatronic dinosaurs built by Stan Winston's team, \"The Lost World\" had a higher emphasis on the computer-generated imagery of Industrial Light & Magic. This led to the film featuring larger shots that offered plenty of space for the digital artists to add the dinosaurs. Although technology had not advanced much since the release of the first film, Spielberg noted that \"the artistry of the creative computer people\" had advanced: \"There's better detail, much better lighting, better muscle tone and movement in the animals. When a dinosaur transfers weight from his left side to his right, the whole movement of fat and sinew is smoother, more physiologically correct.\"\n\nWinston said, \"I wanted to show the world what they didn't see in 'Jurassic Park': more dinosaurs and more dinosaur action. 'More, bigger, better' was our motto.\" Some of the animatronics cost $1 million and weighed nine and a half tons. Michael Lantieri, the special effects supervisor, said, \"The big T. rex robot can pull two Gs of force when it's moving from right to left. If you hit someone with that, you'd kill them. So, in a sense, we did treat the dinosaurs as living, dangerous creatures.\"\n\n\nAfter the release of the novel \"Jurassic Park\" in 1990, Michael Crichton was pressured by fans for a sequel novel. Having never written a sequel, he initially refused. While filming the novel's film adaptation, \"Jurassic Park\", director Steven Spielberg believed that if a sequel film were made, it would involve the retrieval of a canister that contained dinosaur DNA and that was lost during the events of the first film. Discussions about a sequel film began after the 1993 release of \"Jurassic Park\", which became a financial success. Spielberg held discussions with David Koepp and Crichton who both wrote the previous film to discuss possible ideas for a sequel film. The production schedule for a second \"Jurassic Park\" film was dependent on whether Crichton would write a sequel to the first novel.\n\nIn March 1994, Crichton said there would probably be a sequel novel and sequel film, stating that he had a story idea for another novel, which would then be adapted into a film sequel. By that time, Spielberg had not committed to directing the new novel's film adaptation, as he planned to take a year off from directing. In March 1995, Crichton announced that he was nearly finished writing the novel sequel, scheduled for release later that year, although he declined to specify its title or plot. At the time of the announcement, Spielberg had signed on to produce the film adaptation, with filming to begin in summer 1996 for release in 1997. Spielberg, who was busy with his new DreamWorks studio, had not yet decided if he would direct the film, stating, \"I'd love to direct it, but I just have to see. My life is changing.\" Joe Johnston, who offered to direct the sequel, later directed the next film, \"Jurassic Park III\".\n\nA production team was assembled in spring 1995, as Crichton was finishing the second novel, titled \"The Lost World\"; simultaneously, Spielberg and Koepp were developing ideas for the screenplay. Crichton's novel was published in September 1995, while Spielberg was announced as director for the film adaptation in November 1995. Production designer Rick Carter traveled to the Caribbean, New Zealand, and Central America to scout possible locations for filming. By February 1996, northern New Zealand had been chosen as a filming location rather than Kauai, Hawaii, where the previous film was shot, as the filmmakers desired to shoot the new film in a different location that would not be recognized from its predecessor. New Zealand was also chosen because it was believed to have better represented an actual dinosaur environment. Crichton had wished for the film to be shot on Kauai.\n\nIn August 1996, it was announced that Humboldt County, California had been chosen as a filming location instead of New Zealand, where filming would have been too costly. Humboldt County was chosen because of financial incentives that would keep the film's production costs low. Other locations that had been considered were Costa Rica and Oregon. Filming locations in Humboldt County were to include the redwood forests of Eureka, California. The location was picked because research indicated dinosaurs did not inhabit tropical habitats, but forests like the ones in Eureka.\n\nThe plot for Crichton's \"Lost World\" novel involved a second island of dinosaurs, with no reference to the canister of dinosaur DNA (the canister was later used as a plot aspect in a rejected early draft for \"Jurassic Park IV\"). After the novel was finished, Crichton was not consulted about the sequel, and it was not until he declined to approve certain merchandising rights that he received a copy of the script. Kathleen Kennedy, the film's executive producer who previously produced \"Jurassic Park\", said, \"In the same way Michael doesn't see writing as a collaboration, Steven went off and did his own movie. When Michael turned the book over to Steven, he knew his work was finished.\"\n\nSpielberg and Koepp discarded much of the novel's scenes and ideas, choosing to devise a new story instead while including the two ideas from the novel that Spielberg liked: a second island populated with dinosaurs, and a scene in which a trailer dangles from a cliff after being attacked by T. rexes. To prepare for writing the script, Spielberg was more insistent on having Koepp watch the 1925 film, \"The Lost World\", than he was on having him read Crichton's novel, which Koepp also did.\n\nDuring an early meeting with Koepp, Spielberg determined that while the primary conflict of the original film involved herbivorous dinosaurs vs. carnivorous dinosaurs, the script for the new film should involve humans who are \"gatherers\" (observers of the dinosaurs) and \"hunters\" (who capture the dinosaurs for a zoo). Koepp said the plot of the 1962 film \"Hatari!\" about African animals being captured for zoos had \"a big influence\" on \"The Lost World\"'s script. Koepp named the characters of Roland Tembo and Nick Van Owen as a reference to one of his favorite songs, \"Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner\", by Warren Zevon. Koepp said \"since Roland is a mercenary in the song, that seemed like a good name for the hunter-for-hire in our movie. While I was at it, I thought it would be fun to make his nemesis' last name Van Owen, like in the song.\"\n\nCrichton's novel revolves around Malcolm's team and a rival team led by InGen's corporate rival, Biosyn, which was written out of the film adaptation in favor of two competing InGen teams. Several characters from the novel were excluded from the film adaptation, including Lewis Dodgson, the leader of the Biosyn team; and field equipment engineer Doc Thorne, whose characteristics were partially implemented into the film's version of Eddie. Spielberg regretted excluding a scene from the script that would have depicted characters on motorcycles attempting to flee velociraptors, similar to a sequence in the novel. An alternate version of the scene was later added into the 2015 film, \"Jurassic World\".\n\nDieter's death scene was ultimately inspired by John Hammond's death in the first novel, in which \"Procompsognathus\" kill him. The film's opening scene was also inspired by an early chapter in the first novel that was ultimately excluded from its film adaptation, in which a girl on a beach is bitten by a \"Procompsognathus\". The first novel also included a scene in which characters hide behind a waterfall from a \"T. rex\"; this scene was briefly excluded from the first film as well, and was ultimately added into \"The Lost World: Jurassic Park\". According to paleontologist Jack Horner, the film's technical advisor, part of the waterfall scene was written in as a favor for him by Spielberg. Burke greatly resembles Horner's rival Robert Bakker. In real life, Bakker argues for a predatory \"T. rex\" while Horner views it as primarily a scavenger. Spielberg had Burke written into this part to have him killed by the \"T. rex\" as a favor for Horner. After the film came out, Bakker, who recognized himself in Burke and loved it, actually sent Horner a message saying, \"See, I told you \"T. rex\" was a hunter!\"\n\nIn the original script, the film would briefly end with an aerial battle, where \"Pteranodons\" attack the helicopter trying to escape Isla Sorna. Three weeks before filming began, Spielberg ultimately suggested to instead have the \"T. rex\"'s attack through San Diego, as he was interested in seeing dinosaurs attacking the mainland. Spielberg had initially wanted such a scene to be saved for a third film, but later decided to add it into the second film after realizing that he would probably not direct another film in the series. The sequence was inspired by a similar attack scene involving a \"Brontosaurus\" in London in the 1925 version of \"The Lost World\", which was adapted from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 1912 novel of the same name, both of which inspired the title for Crichton's novel. Koepp wrote a total of nine drafts for the film.\n\nIn November 1994, Richard Attenborough said that he would reprise his role as John Hammond from the previous film. In 1995, Spielberg met Vanessa Lee Chester at the premiere of \"A Little Princess\", in which she appeared. Chester later recalled, \"As I was signing an autograph for him, he told me one day he'd put me in a film.\" Spielberg met with Chester the following year to discuss \"The Lost World: Jurassic Park\" before ultimately casting her as Malcolm's daughter, Kelly. In April 1996, Julianne Moore was in discussions to star in the film alongside Jeff Goldblum. Spielberg had admired Moore's performance in \"The Fugitive\". In June 1996, Peter Stormare was in final negotiations to join the cast. In August 1996, Vince Vaughn was announced to have joined the cast. Spielberg was impressed with Vaughn's performance in the film \"Swingers\", which he saw after the filmmakers requested his permission to use music from his earlier film, \"Jaws\". After meeting with Spielberg, Vaughn was subsequently cast without having to do a screen test.\n\nFilming began on September 5, 1996, at Fern Canyon, a part of California's Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park. Filming continued for two weeks in other state parks and on private land in northern California, including Eureka. Throughout the fall of 1996, filming continued on stages at Universal Studios Hollywood. The Site B workers village was constructed there and left intact after filming to become a part of the theme park tour. For the scene where a trailer dangles from a cliff, a whole mountainside was built over the structure of Universal's multi-storey car park.\n\nIn October 1996, it was announced that filming would take place over five days in December at New Zealand's Fiordland National Park, where the film's opening sequence was to be shot. Scenes involving Hammond's residence were shot during the final week of filming, at Mayfield Senior School in Pasadena, California. Also shot in Pasadena was a scene in which Vaughn's character emerges from a lake.\n\nIn early December 1996, plans to film in Fiordland were abruptly cancelled. Principal photography concluded ahead of schedule on December 11, 1996. However, in mid-December 1996, plans were approved to shoot the opening sequence on a beach in Kauai after the cancellation of the New Zealand shoot. Filming in Kauai was underway on December 20, 1996, with plans to conclude two days later. Although Spielberg was in Kauai at the time and had visited the production, the opening sequence was filmed by a second unit crew. The film was shot on a budget of $73 million.\nAlthough the \"T. rex\"'s rampage takes place in San Diego, only one scene is actually shot there, where the InGen helicopter flies over the wharf and banks towards the city. The other sequences were all shot in Burbank, California. Scenes set in San Diego were shot behind barricades to maintain secrecy; Spielberg noted that, \"It looked like road-repair work was going on.\" Various members of the film crew were featured running from the \"Tyrannosaurus\", with screenwriter David Koepp playing the \"Unlucky Bastard\" who gets eaten during a scene set in San Diego.\n\nInspired by how \"Jurassic Park\" featured the Ford Explorer, Mercedes-Benz signed an endorsement deal to introduce in the film its first sports utility vehicle, the M320. Spielberg did not allow for rehearsals among the cast, stating, \"You want to capture the actors when they taste the words for the first time, when they look at each other for the first time–that's the sort of magic you can only get on a first or second take.\" Cinematographer Janusz Kamiński, who had worked with Spielberg in \"Schindler's List\", was brought onto the project to give a darker, more artistic look to the film, leading to a \"more elegant and rich\" approach focused on contrast and shadow.\n\nFor the sequel, composer John Williams avoided using most of the previous film's main themes, writing a more action oriented score. The was released on May 20, 1997. It, along with the soundtrack to the first movie, was re-released and remastered on November 29, 2016.\n\n\"The Lost World: Jurassic Park\" premiered on May 19, 1997, at a Cineplex Odeon theater in Universal City, California. The \"Los Angeles Times\" called the premiere \"low-key\". The film received a wider release on May 23, 1997. Fox Network paid $80 million for the broadcasting rights of \"The Lost World\", which debuted on November 1, 1998. The television version was expanded with deleted scenes, that included John Hammond's ouster by InGen executives.\n\nOn February 10, 1997, Universal announced a $250 million marketing campaign with 70 promotional partners. The marketing campaign was even more extensive than with \"Jurassic Park\". The leading partners were Burger King, whose promotion was concurrent with one for another Universal dinosaur-based franchise, \"The Land Before Time\"; JVC and Mercedes-Benz, whose products are featured in the movie; and Timberland Co., making its first film tie-in. Another partner was a then-sister company of Universal under Seagram, Tropicana Products. Other promotional partners included Hamburger Helper and Betty Crocker, while General Mills introduced Jurassic Park Crunch cereal. Derivative works included , including both a pinball machine and an arcade game by Sega, and a four-part comic series released by Topps Comics.\n\nOther promotional items included a toy line of action figures by Kenner and remote-controlled vehicles by Tyco, as well as a board game by Milton Bradley Company. Also produced were Hershey's chocolate bars that featured holographic dinosaur patterns. Universal hoped for promotional profits to exceed $1 billion.\n\nIn December 1996, a special version of the film's teaser trailer debuted at 42 theaters in the United States and Canada, at a cost of $14,000 for each theater; the trailer made use of synchronized strobe lights that mimicked lightning during a rain scene. The film's first trailer was aired on January 26, 1997, during Super Bowl XXXI. A detailed website for the film was also created, and provided backstory for characters and events that were not referenced in the film. Shortly after the film's release, hackers broke into the website and briefly changed the film's logo to feature a duck instead of a \"T. rex\". The film's title in the logo was also changed to \"The Duck World: Jurassic Pond\". Universal denied that the hacking was a publicity stunt to promote the film, stating that it was traced to a \"16-year-old hacker kid from back East.\" The website was still online as of 2018.\n\nThe film made its VHS and LaserDisc debut on October 21, 1997. The DVD was first released on October 10, 2000, and also made available in a package with predecessor \"Jurassic Park\". The films were also featured in a deluxe limited edition box set featuring both the DVDs and soundtrack albums of the two films, two lenticulars, stills from both films, and a certificate of authenticity signed by all three producers of the set, all inside a collector case. After the release of sequel \"Jurassic Park III\", box sets including all three movies were also made available, as \"Jurassic Park Trilogy\" on December 11, 2001, and as the \"Jurassic Park Adventure Pack\" on November 29, 2005. \"The Lost World\" was first made available on Blu-ray on October 25, 2011 as part of a trilogy release. The entire \"Jurassic Park\" film series was released on 4K UHD Blu-Ray on May 22, 2018.\n\n\"The Lost World\" took in $72.1 million on its opening weekend ($92.6 million for the four-day Memorial Day holiday) in the U.S., which was the biggest opening weekend at the time, surpassing the previous record-holder \"Batman Forever\" at $52.8 million. It held onto this record for four and a half years, until the release of \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\" in November 2001. \"The Lost World\" took the record for highest single-day box office take of $26.1 million on May 25, a record held until the release of \"\". It also became the fastest film to pass the $100 million mark, achieving the feat in just six days. However, despite these records, its total box office gross fell below the total of the original film. It grossed $229.1 million in the U.S. and $389.5 million internationally, for a total of $618.6 million worldwide, becoming the second highest-grossing film of 1997 behind \"Titanic\". The film sold an estimated 49,910,000 tickets in North America.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 53% based on 68 reviews and an average rating of 5.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Lost World\" demonstrates how far CG effects have come in the four years since \"Jurassic Park\"; unfortunately, it also proves how difficult it can be to put together a truly compelling sequel.\" On Metacritic, the film has an average rating of 59/100 based on reviews from 18 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert, who gave the first film three stars, gave \"The Lost World\" only two, writing that \"It can be said that the creatures in this film transcend any visible signs of special effects and seem to walk the earth, but the same realism isn't brought to the human characters, who are bound by plot conventions and action formulas.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" also gave the film two stars and said, \"I was disappointed as much as I was thrilled because 'The Lost World' lacks a staple of Steven Spielberg's adventure films: exciting characters. [...] Even in the original 'Jurassic Park,' the dinosaurs – not to mention the human beings – had more distinct personalities than they have here. Save for superior special effects, 'The Lost World' comes off as recycled material.\" Conversely, Kevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" saw improved character development over the original, saying, \"It seemed such a mistake in \"Jurassic Park\" to sideline early on its most interesting character, the brilliant, free-thinking and outspoken theorist Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) with a broken leg, but in its most inspired stroke, \"The Lost World\" brings back Malcolm and places him front and center,\" calling it \"a pleasure to watch such wily pros as Goldblum and Attenborough spar with each other with wit and assurance\". The dinosaurs were even more developed as characters, with Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" saying, \"\"The Lost World\", unlike \"Jurassic Park\", humanizes its monsters in a way that \"E.T.\" would understand.\" Owen Gleiberman of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a B grade; he remarked, \"Mr. T-Rex was cool in the first Spielberg flick, sure, but it wasn't until [it was in] San Diego that things got crazy-cool. It's the old 'tree falling in the woods' conundrum: Unless your giant monster is causing massive property damage, can you really call it a giant monster?\"\n\nSpielberg confessed that during production he became increasingly disenchanted with the film, admitting, \"I beat myself up... growing more and more impatient with myself... It made me wistful about doing a talking picture, because sometimes I got the feeling I was just making this big silent-roar movie... I found myself saying, 'Is that all there is? It's not enough for me.'\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4714245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714245", "title": "Vani (custom)", "text": "Vani (custom)\n\nVani (), or Swara (), is a cultural custom found in parts of Pakistan and Afghanistan whereby a young girl is married as punishment for some crime committed by her male relatives. \"Vani\" is a form of arranged child marriage, and the result of punishment decided by a council of tribal elders named \"jirga\". It is tied to blood feuds among the different tribes and clans and is most common among Pashtuns. \"Vani\" is sometimes spelled as \"Wani\" or \"Wanni\". It is a Pashto word derived from vanay which means blood. It is also known as Sak and Sangchatti () in different regional languages of India. Some claim \"Vani\" can be avoided if the clan of the girl agrees to pay money, called \"Deet\" ().\n\nThe custom became illegal in Pakistan between 2005 and 2011, however, it still continues. Recently the courts in Pakistan have begun taking serious note and action against the continuation of the practice.\n\nHashmi and Koukab claim this custom started almost 400 years ago when two northwestern Pakistani Pashtun tribes fought a bloody war against each other. During the war, hundreds were murdered. The Nawab, regional ruler, settled the war by calling a \"Jirga\" of elders from both sides. The elders decided that the dispute and crime of men be settled by giving their girls as \"Qisas\", a retaliatory punishment.\n\nEver since then, tribal and rural \"jirgas\" have been using young virgin girls from 4 to 14 years old, through child marriages, to settle crimes such as murder by men. This \"blood for blood\" tradition is practiced in different states of Pakistan such as Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan and KPK and tribal areas.\n\nA report by Pakistan's Law Commission states that sharia principle of Qisas is the rationale for Vani.\n\nSome scholars claim the Hudud Ordinance of 1979 by Pakistan government, which made Sharia its prime source of law, as another driver encouraging \"Vani\".\n\nIn 2012, 13 girls ranging from age 4 to 16 years were forced into marriage to settle a dispute with an allegation of murder between two clans of Pakistan. The case was tried by elders from the two groups, with a member of Balochistan state assembly Mir Tariq Masoori Bugti, leading the jirga. The jirga’s verdict included \"Vani\", that is an order that the 13 girls must be handed over as wives to members of opposing group, for a crime committed by one man who could not be found for the trial. The sentence was carried out, and the politician Mr. Bugti defended the practice of \"Vani\" as a valid means to settle disputes.\n\nNumerous other cases have been reported. In 2011, for example, a 12-year-old girl was handed over as wife to an 85-year-old man, under \"vani\", for a crime alleged to have been committed by the girl’s father. In 2010, another politician participated as a member of a ‘‘jirga’’ and ruled in favor of ‘‘Vani’’.\n\nThe custom of \"Vani\" is very common many regions of Pakistan. The Supreme Court of Pakistan served suo motu notices in 2012 to help reduce and stop the custom of Vani.\n\nIn Afghanistan, a similar custom is called Ba'ad, sometimes as \"Sawara\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31330688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31330688", "title": "Vegan Awareness Foundation", "text": "Vegan Awareness Foundation\n\nThe Vegan Awareness Foundation, also known as Vegan Action, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization (FIN# 94-3224024) in Virginia, United States and founded in 1995. Dedicated to helping animals, the environment, and human health by educating the public about the benefits of a vegan lifestyle and encouraging the spread of vegan food options through public outreach campaigns. One of the goals of Vegan Action is to create growth in the vegan marketplace and increase the availability of vegan products. They have introduced a logo to certify vegan products, vegan food options into schools nationwide, and ideas behind veganism.\n\nSince 2000, Vegan Action administers a \"Certified Vegan\" logo which is a registered trademark applied to foods, clothing, cosmetics and other items that contain no animal products and are not tested on animals. The logo is easily visible to consumers interested in vegan products and helps vegans to shop without consulting ingredient lists. Since introduction, there have been over eight-hundred companies taking advantage of the logo and thousands of products featuring it.\n\nEach year, Vegan Action helps people worldwide organize McVegan events which involve passing out thousands of free vegan food samples and dietary information to the public. In 1995, McDonald's threatened to sue Vegan Action for trademark infringement over McVegan shirts which featured McDonald’s well-known golden arches with the logo \"McVegan. Billions and billions saved.\" Instead of backing down, Vegan Action enlisted pro-bono services from an intellectual property legal firm and developed a defense based on the First Amendment's protection of parody. The story was picked up by \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"San Francisco Examiner\", \"Houston Chronicle\", \"Chicago Tribune\", the AP and UPI wires, National Public Radio, and four local television networks. The McVegan story even appeared in German and Australian newspapers. After two weeks of widespread press, McDonald's backed down and formally withdrew their threat of legal action.\n\nVegan Action has worked to help dozens of campus groups across the country bring vegan food options into their dorms. Their dorm food campaigns have made college life more convenient for vegan students while introducing thousands of other students to the possibilities of a vegan diet. Vegan Action began after a successful petition in 1994 at UC-Berkeley. Working with two campus groups, Students in Support of Animals and The Coalition of Students for Healthy Dorm Food, the Vegan Action founders circulated a petition for improved vegan food options, obtaining signatures from 1,200 dorm residents. The groups then met with dorm administrators, armed with the Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine's Gold Plan, which supplies vegan recipes and nutritional information to food-service personnel, and other supportive material.\nVegan Action has started a campaign to help, encourage, and reach those already concerned about the treatment of animals in our society. In doing so, they’ve developed a package of literature, mailings, and presentations to reach humane societies and advocate a humane diet.\n\nBoard of Directors:\n\nAdvisory Committee:\n\n"}
{"id": "2016860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2016860", "title": "Walkout", "text": "Walkout\n\nIn labor disputes, a walkout is a labor strike, the act of employees collectively leaving the workplace as an act of protest.\n\nA walkout can also mean the act of leaving a place of work, school, a meeting, a company, or an organization, especially if meant as an expression of protest or disapproval.\n\nA walkout can be seen as different from a strike in that a walkout can occur spontaneously, and need not necessarily involve all the workers present, whereas a strike is often voted on beforehand by the workers, giving notification both to all of the workers and to the company affected.\n\nWalkouts have often been staged against the presence of a speaker or the content of an in-progress speech at a meeting. The protest, which is often a silent, non-violent means of expressing disapproval, is often interpreted as an exercise of the freedom of association while allowing the speaker to exercise the freedom of speech, albeit with a reduced audience in attendance.\n\nThese were a series of 1968 protests against unequal conditions in Los Angeles Unified School District high schools, beginning on March 6.\n\nIn the beginning of the 19th century there was a change in economic circumstances with the booming Industrial Revolution and young single women, between ages of fourteen to early twenties felt the need to work to relieve financial pressures from their family and to gain a sense of independence of living on their own. They left home and began a new life in the mill boarding houses. While working in the mills they would send some monthly earnings back home to still fulfill the role as a contributing part of the family. However, the majority of their earnings was saved in the bank for their own desires. Most women who made this change came from a modest farming backgrounds and made the move to areas of New England and Mid Atlantic States.\n\nIn the early months of 1834, textile sales were slow and profits were not up to standard to provide sufficient wages for the women mill workers of Lowell, Massachusetts. As a result, wages were cut and the price of room and board went up. The mill factory women saw this wage cut and price increase as an offense to their dignity, social quality, and economic autonomy. The women decided to take action and many started petitions and held meetings during dinner breaks. They pledged that they would quit if the wage rates decreased. On a Friday in February 1834, a sporadic walkout began after a meeting in which an agent of a mill company dismissed a woman factory worker. Protesting began and the women quit work and started parading through the city streets, attempting to persuade other mill women to join. This walkout was short lived and by the middle of the next week the women either returned to work or left town. Only about one-sixth of all women workers in Lowell walked out.\n\nIn October 1836, the women workers in the Lowell, Massachusetts factory mills walked out once again for the same reasons as the strike in 1834. The young women saw the wage-cut and the increasing prices of housing board as a direct assault on their social and economic independence, and they wouldn't let the revolting wage-cut and rising prices undermined their status as \"daughters of freemen\". Furthermore, as influenced by their traditional values, the young women did not accept to be treated as slaves so they protested. In this second walkout however, the women workers were more organized, and the number of workers involved in the strikes were far numerous than the one sixth of all the factory workers in 1834 and this had a greater impact on the success of their operation. The other cause to their success of this second walkout was the economic prosperity of the 1840s; the mills profits were booming and they needed more workers. Therefore, the walkout of 1836 affected the mills greatly because they were short in workers, and the lengthy absence of the women accentuated the impact. As a result, some of the mills were obliged to cut their charges on housing, and they were forced to cooperate with the women workers' organization.\n\nThe women wanted to take a stand for their independence. With the decision making of having walkouts, they portrayed how women started a new revolution with a new idea of feminine autonomy and power. The 1834 and 1836 walkouts symbolized women standing against oppression by employers who wished to lower their wages, as well as increase the price in housing. With these walkouts women took a stand for themselves as well as paved the way for the generations of women to come.\n\n"}
{"id": "146788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146788", "title": "We Are the Champions", "text": "We Are the Champions\n\n\"We Are the Champions\" is a song by the British rock band Queen, first released on their 1977 album \"News of the World\". Written by lead singer Freddie Mercury, it is one of Queen's most popular songs and one of rock's most recognisable anthems. The song was a worldwide success, reaching number two in the UK Singles Chart and number four on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the United States. In 2009, \"We Are the Champions\" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame and was voted the world's favourite song in a 2005 Sony Ericsson world music poll. In 2011, a team of scientific researchers concluded that the song was the catchiest in the history of popular music.\n\n\"We Are the Champions\" has become an anthem for victories at sporting events, including as an official theme song for the 1994 FIFA World Cup, and has been often used or referenced in popular culture. The song has also been covered by many artists.\n\nOn 7 October 2017, Queen released a \"Raw Sessions\" version of the track to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the release of \"News of the World\". It was made from previously unheard vocal and instrumental takes from the original multi-track tapes. It also presents for the first time the original recorded length of the track, which is two choruses more than the 1977 edited single.\n\nWritten by Freddie Mercury, \"We Are the Champions\" was built on audience response following a concert at Bingley Hall, Stafford in which the audience sang \"You'll Never Walk Alone\" to the band. It embodies numerous elements of arena rock, with Brian May stating, \"We wanted to get the crowds waving and singing. It's very unifying and positive.\" \n\nMusically, it is based on Mercury's piano part, with Roger Taylor and John Deacon providing a drums and bass guitar backing. May overdubbed some guitar sections, initially subtle, but building to a \"solo\" played simultaneously with the last chorus. Mercury employed many jazz chords (major and minor 6th, 7th, 9th, 11th and 13th harmonies), and the choruses featured these voiced as 4 and 5-part vocal harmonies. The lead vocal is very demanding and strident (highest point is a C5 both belted and in falsetto), with one of Mercury's most notable performances taking place at the Live Aid concert, at Wembley Stadium, London in 1985. \n\nThe single featured \"We Will Rock You\" as a B-side, and followed the song on the album. The two songs were often played consecutively at the close of Queen concerts, and are customarily played together on radio broadcasts (in album order). Keeping with tradition, it was also used to close the 1992 Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert with all the show's acts joining in behind the lead vocal of Liza Minnelli.\n\nThe video for the song was filmed at a special video shoot with fan club members at the New London Theatre Centre on 6 October 1977 and was directed by Derek Burbridge. An alternate version which starts in monochrome before blasting into colour as the drums and guitars kick in was broadcast on \"Top of the Pops 2\" and comprises alternate footage shot on the same day.\n\nIn 2011, a team of scientific researchers concluded that the song was the catchiest song in the history of pop music, despite its not hitting #1 in the charts in any major market. Dr. Daniel Mullensiefen said of the study, \"Every musical hit is reliant on maths, science, engineering and technology; from the physics and frequencies of sound that determine pitch and harmony, to the hi-tech digital processors and synthesisers which can add effects to make a song more catchier. We’ve discovered that there’s a science behind the sing-along and a special combination of neuroscience, math and cognitive psychology that can produce the elusive elixir of the perfect sing-along song.\"\n\nIn 1977–1978, \"We Are the Champions\" was released as a single in many countries, reaching number 2 on the UK Singles Chart. number 4 on \"Billboard\" in the US., the top 10 in Ireland, Netherlands, and Norway, and top 15 in Germany, Austria and Sweden.\n\nIn 1992, 1993 and 1998, the single was re-released in France, totalling 45 weeks on the chart and peaking respectively at #19, #14, and #10 during the 1998 FIFA World Cup.\n\n\n\nA cover version by Crazy Frog titled \"We Are the Champions (Ding a Dang Dong)\" was released as a single on 5 June 2006, to coincide with the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Vocal arrangements include a sample portion of Queen's original recording.\n\nThe music video depicts Crazy Frog in bed dreaming that he is competing in a soccer match against Killbots. Though outnumbered, he easily defeats and humiliates them. One goal rebounds off the net knocking him out and causing him to briefly wake up. Having defeated his enemies he finds himself hovering in a soccer universe.\n\nHe happens to glance at hundreds of clones marching toward him. He panics and runs in fear. He reaches a tall stairway leading up to a giant gold trophy. Crazy Frog becomes exhausted near the top unlike his indefatigable pursuants. The trophy turns into a giant soccer ball that begins to roll rapidly down toward Crazy Frog.\n\nCrazy Frog is crushed and falls with the ball all the way back to the ground, startling him enough to wake up. When the music video was originally released online, it appeared as it was released. However, the current version lacks the soccer ball being kicked and the accompanying sound effects.\n\nAfter being internationally released, it was shown before the animated movie \"Cars\".\n\nThe single had its greatest success in France. It went straight to #1 on 10 June 2006, and stayed at this position for five weeks. It remained for nine weeks in the Top 10, seventeen weeks in the top fifty, and twenty five weeks in the chart. On 30 August 2006, it was certified Gold disc two months after its release by SNEP, the French certifier, and became the fifteenth best selling single in 2006 in that country.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46741127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46741127", "title": "West Virginia State Society", "text": "West Virginia State Society\n\nThe West Virginia State Society of Washington, D.C. (WVSS) was founded for those who live in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area and have West Virginia connections. WVSS is a non-profit organization that hosts opportunities for West Virginians located in Washington, D.C. to gather, socialize, and create a strong identity in the city.\n\nFounded on September 12, 1914, the Society's first president was David W. Gall. Among the 78 original members were U.S. Senators, Nathan B. Scott and Davis Elkins. In 1939, State Societies began to coordinate events and in the late forties organized a Conference of State Societies. On April 3, 1952, Congress formally created the Conference of State Societies. The West Virginia State Society was led by U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd in 1963. On July 5, 1968 the name of the Conference was changed to the National Conference of State Societies. WVSS is a member of the NCSS.\n\nFour past Presidents of the National Conference of State Societies have been members of the West Virginia State Society of Washington, D.C. Additionally, the Society has been honored with a dinner with President of the United States of America in 1978, and has received the Haines Award from the NCSS in 1977-78.\n\n\n"}
