{"id": "46417962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46417962", "title": "1972 Olympics Black Power salute", "text": "1972 Olympics Black Power salute\n\nThe 1972 Olympics Black Power Salute was a political protest by two US Olympic runners Vincent Matthews and Wayne Collett during the 1972 Summer Olympics at the Olympic Stadium in Munich, West Germany. This event is sometimes referred to as \"The Forgotten Protest.\" This event came four years after the 1968 Olympics Black Power salute.\n\nMatthews was a 1968 Olympian who had retired. He was frustrated by problems that included having to pay his own travel to the US Trials.\n\nBoth runners refused to stand for the US National Anthem. They subsequently stroked their beards, and twirled their medals as they left the stadium. The crowd booed both runners for their display.\n\nThe Associated Press noted that the casual behavior of Matthews and Collett during the playing of the anthem as \"disrespectful,\" and described the conduct as follows:Collett, bare-footed, leaped from the No. 2 tier to the No. 1 stand beside his teammate. They stood sideways to the flag, twirling their medals, with Matthews stroking his chin. Their shoulders slumped, neither stood erect nor looked at the flag. ... As whistles and catcalls continued, Collett raised a clenched fist to the crowd before entering the portal of the dressing room.\n\nRobert Markus reported in the Chicago Tribune on September 9, 1972\n[Matthews] was angry at Coach Bill Bowerman-as most of the U.S. trackmen seem to be-because Bowerman had hinted he would like to remove him from the place he had earned in the 400-meter field. He was angry that he had been forced to train on his own in unsuitable facilities, had to travel 4 or 5 times from N.Y. to the west coast in order to get any kind of competition, and had been put down by some of the press as a drag on America's hopes for a 400-meter sweep.\n\nThe Chicago Tribune further reported\nMatthews said his and Collett's actions were directed at the U.S. coaching staff, not the flag or the National Anthem. \"We were just mad about a lot of things. We didn't think it would blow up like this. We were asked to apologize. I'm not really sorry for what I did. I'm sorry for the way people took it [hoots and whistles from the stands when the anthem finished]. What I tried to get across to the Olympic Committee was if it was pre-meditated I could have done something better than that. It was just something that happened. We didn't realize the implications to the people in the stands.\"\n\nIn an interview after the medal ceremony with the American Broadcasting Company, Collett said the national anthem meant nothing to him. He explained that he had felt unable to honor the anthem, because of the struggle faced by African Americans at the time: \"I couldn't stand there and sing the words because I don't believe they're true. I wish they were. I believe we have the potential to have a beautiful country, but I don't think we do.\" The pair were banned from future Olympic competition by the IOC; since John Smith had pulled a hamstring 80 meters into the final while leading and had been ruled unfit to run, the USA were now unable to field a team in the 4 × 400 m relay and were forced to scratch from the event.\n\nI wasn't acting any differently than I usually do, but we were like goldfish in a fishbowl, in front of all those people. If they wanted me to stand at attention, I could've probably done that, but it wouldn't be me, and I was led to believe that the Olympics was for the athlete. We consider ourselves athletes, not politicians, or marching bands. Our athletic competition was over, and we were both happy.\n\nMatthews was banned from all future Olympic events. Both runners in fact received a lifelong ban from the IOC and the USOC. This banning likely cost the US medals in the 4x400. Both runners were eventually elected to the Black Olympian Hall of Fame. IOC President Avery Brundage stated the actions of Matthews and Collett made for a \"disgusting display.\" This display by the athletes would be overshadowed by the Munich massacre. Collett went on to become a lawyer. In 2011, Matthews was elected to the USATF Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "48778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48778", "title": "Action theory (philosophy)", "text": "Action theory (philosophy)\n\nAction theory (or theory of action) is an area in philosophy concerned with theories about the processes causing willful human bodily movements of a more or less complex kind. This area of thought involves epistemology, ethics, metaphysics, jurisprudence, and philosophy of mind, and has attracted the strong interest of philosophers ever since Aristotle's \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (Third Book). With the advent of psychology and later neuroscience, many theories of action are now subject to empirical testing.\n\nPhilosophical action theory, or the philosophy of action, should not be confused with sociological theories of social action, such as the action theory established by Talcott Parsons.\n\nBasic action theory typically describes action as behavior caused by an \"agent\" in a particular \"situation\". The agent's \"desires\" and \"beliefs\" (e.g. my wanting a glass of water and believing the clear liquid in the cup in front of me is water) lead to bodily behavior (e.g. reaching over for the glass). In the simple theory (see Donald Davidson), the desire and belief jointly cause the action. Michael Bratman has raised problems for such a view and argued that we should take the concept of intention as basic and not analyzable into beliefs and desires.\n\nIn some theories a desire plus a belief about the means of satisfying that desire are always what is behind an action. Agents aim, in acting, to maximize the satisfaction of their desires. Such a theory of prospective rationality underlies much of economics and other social sciences within the more sophisticated framework of rational choice. However, many theories of action argue that rationality extends far beyond calculating the best means to achieve one's ends. For instance, a belief that I ought to do X, in some theories, can directly cause me to do X without my having to want to do X (i.e. have a desire to do X). Rationality, in such theories, also involves responding correctly to the reasons an agent perceives, not just acting on wants.\n\nWhile action theorists generally employ the language of causality in their theories of what the nature of action is, the issue of what causal determination comes to has been central to controversies about the nature of free will.\n\nConceptual discussions also revolve around a precise definition of action in philosophy. Scholars may disagree on which bodily movements fall under this category, e.g. whether thinking should be analysed as action, and how complex actions involving several steps to be taken and diverse intended consequences are to be summarised or decomposed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57504451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57504451", "title": "Algorithms and Combinatorics", "text": "Algorithms and Combinatorics\n\nAlgorithms and Combinatorics () is a book series in mathematics, and particularly in combinatorics and the design and analysis of algorithms. It is published by Springer Science+Business Media, and was founded in 1987.\n\n, the books published in this series include:\n"}
{"id": "46994568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46994568", "title": "Archaeological looting", "text": "Archaeological looting\n\nArchaeological looting is the illicit removal of artefacts from an archaeological site. Such looting is the major source of artefacts for the antiquities market. Looting has been linked to the economic and political stability of the possessing nation, with levels of looting increasing during times of crisis. However, looting is also endemic in so-called \"archaeological countries\" like Italy, Greece, Turkey, Sicily, Cyprus and other areas of the Mediterranean Basin, as well as many areas of Africa, South East Asia and Central and South America, which have a rich heritage of archaeological sites, a large proportion of which are still unknown to formal archaeological science.\n\n"}
{"id": "37096645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37096645", "title": "Bengali Language Movement (Manbhum)", "text": "Bengali Language Movement (Manbhum)\n\nThe Bengali Language Movement in Manbhum was a movement in Manbhum district, present day Purulia district of West Bengal state, during the late 1940s to mid-1950s, to fight for Bengali language and to protest against the forcible imposition of Hindi language to the Bengali speaking people.\n\nIn 1765, the nominal Mughal Emperor Shah Alam II was defeated to the British East India Company in the Battle of Buxar. He granted \"Diwani\" (right to collect revenue) of Bengal (which included Bihar to the East India Company. The East India Company started Tax-Collection process in the Jungal-Mahal area. To have a greater Control over the area, East India Company split the area into smaller districts like Panchet (1773), Jungle-Mahal (1805) and Manbhum (1833). The Manbhum District was formed with an area of 7,896 square miles. The district of Manbhum was again split in 1845, 1846, 1871 and finally in 1879, and as a result the area of Manbhum was reduced to 4,112 square miles.\n\nThe Partition of Bengal was started in 1905, and, as an effect of that, a new state, Bihar-Odisha, was formed. The Manbhum District was included to the Bihar-Odisha. The whole district started protesting against the inclusion. The language movement or Bhasa Andolon had started as a demand to include Manbhum District as a part of Bengal.\n\nAt the time of independence of India in 1947, Manbhum district was a part of Bihar. From 1948 Bengali speaking peoples of Manbhum district started suffering as restrictions on Bengali language as well as forcible imposition of Hindi language over Bengali speaking people had started. Bengali officers of Manbhum district were transferred to the others districts of Bihar, D.I. of school issued notice to teach Hindi from Primary classes, Bengali department was closed in zilla school. Installation of notice board in Hindi language become Compulsory for the schools and business establishment. Presenting the Domicile Certificate became mandatory for the Bengalis of Manbhum District. Hindi was declared as official language of Manbhum District.\n\nAfter seeing the plight of Bengali speaking people, a proposal to make the Bengali as the language of Manbhum district has given. But it was defeated in 43–55 at the Congress Party on 30 May 1948. On 14 June 1948 the Lok Sevak Sangha was established to protect Bengali Language as well as to fight for forcible imposition of Hindi Language over the Bengali Language as the state policy of the then Bihar government. The government restricted the use of Bengali language in education to the Bengali speaking people of Manbhum District. The government banned rallies also. All these incident sparked the protest to the fullest in Manbhum District.\n\nLok Sevak Sangha started the agitation in various level.\n\nThousands of Bengali people of Manbhum district with the song \"Shun Bihari-bhai / Tora Rakhte Larbi / Dang Dekhai… … (O Bihari-brothers/ You cannot keep us in Bihar / We are showing you sticks… …)\" went to jail. The Bar association, Purulia Municipality and Communist party also joined this agitation.\n\nAs an effect of this agitation a commission named \"State Re Organization Commission\" was set up by the Central government on 23 December 1953. The Commission held hearing in Manbhum district on 5 February 1955 and submitted its report on 10 October 1955. In its report the commission proposed the formation of a new district \"Purulia\", primarily dominated by Bengali speaking people to West Bengal from erstwhile Manbhum district of Bihar.The new Purulia district comprised 19 Police stations from the then Manbhum district. But as a Special request from TISCO the then Chief minister of West Bengal, Dr. Bidhan Chndra Roy gave consent for accession of three police station (Patamda, Ichagarh and Chandil) to the Bihar.\n\nOn 1 November 1956 with 16 Police stations, 2007 square mile area and with a population of the new district Purulia was acceded to West Bengal.\n"}
{"id": "3968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3968", "title": "Bodhisattva", "text": "Bodhisattva\n\nIn Buddhism, Bodhisattva ( ) is the Sanskrit term for anyone who has generated Bodhicitta, a spontaneous wish and compassionate mind to attain Buddhahood for the benefit of all sentient beings. Bodhisattvas are a popular subject in Buddhist art.\n\nIn early Buddhism, the term \"bodhisattva\" was primarily used to refer specifically to Gautama Buddha (a contemporary of Mahavira) in his former life. The Jataka tales, which are the stories of the Buddha's past lives, depict the various attempts of the bodhisattva to embrace qualities like self-sacrifice and morality. The bodhisattva is also called a pusa. This is one who had achieved Buddhahood but chooses to remain in merciful attachment to the world. In Sanskrit this is called a Avalokitesvara.\n\nAccording to the Jataka tales, the term \"bodhisattva\" originally referred to the pre-enlightened practitioner of austerities that surpassed Śrāvakayāna and Pratyekabuddhayāna by far and completed the \"Bodhisattvayāna\" (Mahayāna Buddhism). Mount Potalaka, for example, is one of Bodhisattvayana. The term for practitioners who have not yet reached Bodhisattvayāna was not fixed, but the terms \"Śrāvaka-Bodhisattva\" (聲聞菩薩) and \"Pratyekabuddha-Bodhisattva\" (縁覚菩薩) had already appeared in the Āgamas of early Indian Buddhism.\n\nMahayana Buddhism did not place much emphasis in honoring the Śrāvakayāna or Pratyekabuddhayāna since they were classified as part of the \"Hinayana\", but praise of the general Bodhisattvayāna was commonplace. Because Hinayana was disliked and the terms Śrāvaka-Bodhisattva or Pratyekabuddha-Bodhisattva were not widely used, while usage of the general term \"bodhisattva\" had grown in popularity. Nevertheless, \"bodhisattva\" retained an implied reference to someone on the path to become an arhat or pratyekabuddha. In contrast, the goal of the bodhisattva path is to achieve \"samyaksambodhi.\" \n\nIn early Buddhism, the equivalent Pali term \"bodhisatta\" is used in the Pāli Canon to refer to Gautama Buddha in his previous lives and as a young man in his current life in the period during which he was working towards his own liberation. During his discourses, to recount his experiences as a young aspirant he regularly uses the phrase \"When I was an unenlightened bodhisatta...\" The term therefore connotes a being who is \"bound for enlightenment\", in other words, a person whose aim is to become fully enlightened. In the Pāli canon, the bodhisatta is also described as someone who is still subject to birth, illness, death, sorrow, defilement, and delusion. Some of the previous lives of the Buddha as a bodhisattva are featured in the Jataka tales.\n\nAccording to the Theravāda monk Bhikkhu Bodhi, the bodhisattva path is not taught in the earliest strata of Buddhist texts such as the Pali Nikayas (and their counterparts such as the Chinese Āgamas) which instead focus on the ideal of the Arahant. In later Theravada literature, the term \"bodhisatta\" is used fairly frequently in the sense of someone on the path to liberation. The later tradition of commentary also recognizes two additional types of bodhisattas: the \"paccekabodhisatta\", who will attain Paccekabuddhahood, and the \"savakabodhisatta\", who will attain enlightenment as a disciple of a Buddha. In the 1st-2nd century BCE Sri Lankan work, the Buddhavamsa, the idea of the person who makes a Bodhisatta vow to become a fully enlightened Buddha out of compassion for all sentient beings is presented. Another related concept outlined in the Buddhavamsa and in another text called the Cariyapitaka is the need to cultivate certain Bodhisatta perfections or paramitas\nKings of Sri Lanka were often described as bodhisattvas, starting at least as early as Sirisanghabodhi (r. 247-249), who was renowned for his compassion, took vows for the welfare of the citizens, and was regarded as a mahāsatta (Sanskrit \"mahāsattva\"), an epithet used almost exclusively in Mahayana Buddhism. Many other Sri Lankan kings from the 3rd until the 15th century were also described as bodhisattvas and their royal duties were sometimes clearly associated with the practice of the Ten Pāramitās.\n\nTheravadin bhikkhu and scholar Walpola Rahula stated that the bodhisattva ideal has traditionally been held to be higher than the state of a \"śrāvaka\" not only in Mahayana but also in Theravada Buddhism. He also quotes the 10th century king of Sri Lanka, Mahinda IV (956-972 CE), who had the words inscribed \"none but the bodhisattvas will become kings of a prosperous Lanka,\" among other examples.\nPaul Williams writes that some modern Theravada meditation masters in Thailand are popularly regarded as bodhisattvas.\n\nAccording to Jeffrey Samuels, it \"may more accurately portray the differences that exist between the two yanas by referring to Mahayana Buddhism as a vehicle in which the bodhisattva ideal is more universally applied, and to Theravada Buddhism as a vehicle in which the bodhisattva ideal is reserved for and appropriated by certain exceptional people.\"\n\nMahāyāna Buddhism is based principally upon the path of a bodhisattva.\nAccording to Jan Nattier, the term \"Mahāyāna\" (\"Great Vehicle\") was originally even an honorary synonym for \"Bodhisattvayāna\", or the \"Bodhisattva Vehicle.\" The \"\" contains a simple and brief definition for the term \"bodhisattva\", which is also the earliest known Mahāyāna definition. This definition is given as the following.\n\nThe earliest depiction of the Bodhisattva path in texts such as the Ugraparipṛcchā Sūtra describe it as an arduous, difficult monastic path suited only for the few which is nevertheless the most glorious path one can take. Three kinds of Bodhisattvas are mentioned in the early Mahayana texts: the forest, city, and monastery Bodhisattvas - with forest dwelling being promoted a superior, even necessary path in sutras such as the Ugraparipṛcchā and the Samadhiraja sutras. The early Rastrapalapariprccha sutra also promotes a solitary life of meditation in the forests, far away from the distractions of the householder life. The Rastrapala is also highly critical of monks living in monasteries and in cities who are seen as not practicing meditation and morality. The Ratnagunasamcayagatha also says the Bodhisattva should undertake ascetic practices (dhutanga), \"wander freely without a home\", practice the paramitas and train under a guru in order to perfect his meditation practice and realization of prajnaparamita. These texts seem to indicate the initial Bodhisattva ideal was associated with a strict forest asceticism.\n\nMahāyāna Buddhism encourages everyone to become bodhisattvas and to take the bodhisattva vows. With these vows, one makes the promise to work for the complete enlightenment of all sentient beings by practicing the six perfections. Indelibly entwined with the bodhisattva vow is merit transference (\"pariṇāmanā\").\n\nIn the \"Lotus Sūtra\", life in this world is compared to people living in a house that is on fire. People take this world as reality pursuing worldly projects and pleasures without realizing that the house is ablaze and will soon burn down (due to the inevitability of suffering). A bodhisattva is one who has a determination to free sentient beings from samsara and its cycle of death, rebirth and suffering. This type of mind is known as the mind of awakening (\"bodhicitta\").\n\nA commonly repeated misconception in Western literature is that bodhisattvas delay their own liberation. This confusion is based on a misreading of several different scriptural concepts and narratives. One of these is the Tibetan teaching on three types of motivation for generating bodhicitta. According to Patrul Rinpoche's 19th century \"Words of My Perfect Teacher\" (\"Kun bzang bla ma'i gzhal lung\"), a bodhisattva might be motivated in one of three ways. They are:\n\nThese three are not types of people, but rather types of motivation. According to Patrul Rinpoche, the third quality of intention is most noble though the mode by which buddhahood actually occurs is the first; that is, it is only possible to teach others the path to enlightenment once one has attained enlightenment oneself. The ritualized formulation of the bodhisattva vow also reflects this order (becoming a buddha so that one can then teach others to do the same). A bodhisattva vow ritual text attributed to Nāgārjuna, of the second-third century CE, states the vow as follows: \"Just as the past tathāgata arhat samyaksambuddhas, when engaging in the behavior of a bodhisattva, generated the aspiration to unsurpassed complete enlightenment so that all beings be liberated, all beings be freed, all beings be relieved, all beings attain complete nirvana, all beings be placed in omniscient wisdom, in the same way, I whose name is so-and-so, from this time forward, generate the aspiration to unsurpassed complete enlightenment so that all beings be liberated, all beings be freed, all beings be relieved, all beings attain complete nirvana, all beings be placed in omniscient wisdom.\" \n\nAnother reason for the misconception that a bodhisattva \"delays\" liberation is that a bodhisattva rejects the liberation of the śravaka and pratyekabuddha, described in Mahāyāna literature as either inferior (as in Asaṅga's fourth century \"Yogācārabhūmi\") or nonexistent (as in the \"Lotus Sūtra\"). That a bodhisattva has the option to pursue such a lesser path, but instead chooses the long path towards buddhahood is one of the five criteria for one to be considered a bodhisattva. The other four are: being human, being a man, making a vow to become a buddha in the presence of a previous buddha, and receiving a prophecy from that buddha. \n\nThe six perfections that constitute bodhisattva practice should not be confused with the actual acts of benefiting beings that the bodhisattva vows to accomplish once he or she is a buddha. The six perfections are a mental transformation and need not actually benefit anyone. This is seen in the story of Vessantara, an incarnation of Śākyamuni Buddha while he was still a bodhisattva, who commits the ultimate act of generosity by giving away his children to an evil man who mistreats them. Vessantara's actual acts do not benefit beings; in fact, he causes direct harm. However, the merit from his perfection of generosity fructifies in his lifetime as Śākyamuni Buddha when he attains complete enlightenment.\n\nAccording to many traditions within Mahāyāna Buddhism, on the way to becoming a Buddha, a bodhisattva proceeds through ten, or sometimes fourteen, grounds or \"bhūmis.\" Below is the list of the ten \"bhūmis\" and their descriptions according to the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" and \"The Jewel Ornament of Liberation,\" a treatise by Gampopa, an influential teacher of the Tibetan Kagyu school. (Other schools give slightly variant descriptions.)\n\nBefore a bodhisattva arrives at the first ground, he or she first must travel the first two of five paths:\n\nThe ten grounds of the bodhisattva then can be grouped into the next three paths\n\nThe chapter of ten grounds in the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" refers to 52 stages. The 10 grounds are:\n\n\nAfter the ten \"bhūmis\", according to Mahāyāna Buddhism, one attains complete enlightenment and becomes a Buddha.\n\nWith the 52 stages, the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\" recognizes 57 stages. With the 10 grounds, various Vajrayāna schools recognize 3–10 additional grounds, mostly 6 more grounds with variant descriptions.\n\nA bodhisattva above the 7th ground is called a \"mahāsattva\". Some bodhisattvas such as Samantabhadra are also said to have already attained buddhahood.\n\nSome sutras said a beginner would take 3–22 countless eons (\"mahāsaṃkhyeya kalpas\") to become a buddha. Pure Land Buddhism suggests buddhists go to the pure lands to practice as bodhisattvas. Tiantai, Huayan, Zen and Vajrayāna schools say they teach ways to attain buddhahood within one karmic cycle.\n\nVarious traditions within Buddhism believe in specific bodhisattvas. Some bodhisattvas appear across traditions, but due to language barriers may be seen as separate entities. For example, Tibetan Buddhists believe in various forms of Chenrezig, who is Avalokiteśvara in Sanskrit, Guanyin in China, Gwan-eum in Korea, Quan Am in Vietnam, and Kannon in Japan. Followers of Tibetan Buddhism consider the Dalai Lamas and the Karmapas to be an emanation of Chenrezig, the Bodhisattva of Compassion.\n\nKṣitigarbha is another popular bodhisattva in Japan and China. He is known for aiding those who are lost. His greatest compassionate vow is:\n\nThe place of a bodhisattva's earthly deeds, such as the achievement of enlightenment or the acts of Dharma, is known as a \"bodhimaṇḍa\", and may be a site of pilgrimage. Many temples and monasteries are famous as bodhimaṇḍas. Perhaps the most famous bodhimaṇḍa of all is the Bodhi Tree under which Śākyamuṇi achieved buddhahood. In the tradition of Chinese Buddhism, there are four mountains that are regarded as bodhimaṇḍas for bodhisattvas, with each site having major monasteries and being popular for pilgrimages by both monastics and laypeople. These four bodhimandas are:\n\n\n4 Great Bodhisattvas (in Chinese Buddhism) \n\n四大菩薩.  (菩薩 is short for菩提薩埵)\n\nIn this order: Compassion, Wisdom, Vow and Practice. \n\n悲 智 願 行 \n\n1, Avalokitesvara Bodhisattva 觀世音 菩薩 short: 觀音 菩薩\n\nStands for Great Compassion.\n\n2, Manjusri Bodhisattva  文殊師利 菩薩 short: 文殊 菩薩\n\nStands for Great Wisdom.\n\n3, Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva  地藏 菩薩\n\nStands for Great Vow.\n\n4, Samantabhadra Bodhisattva 普賢 菩薩\n\nStands for Great Practice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32700874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32700874", "title": "Common employment", "text": "Common employment\n\nCommon employment was an historical defence in English tort law that said workers implicitly undertook the risks of being injured by their co-workers, with whom they were in \"common employment\". The US labor law terminology was the \"fellow servant rule\".\n\nThe operation of the doctrine was seen first in \"Priestly v Fowler\" in the United Kingdom. In the United States the doctrine was seen in \"Farwell v. Boston & Worcester R.R. Corp\".\n\nBunker Hill Mining Company operated by the fellow servant doctrine. According to Katherine Aiken, \"persons engaged in the same common pursuit for the same employer were fellow servants and companies were not liable for injuries where a fellow servant was at fault. Thus, either the miner himself or his coworker was ultimately responsible for accidents.\" Between March 1893 and Feb. 1894, 15 fatalities occurred at the mine.\n\nIt was abolished altogether by the Law Reform (Personal Injuries) Act 1948 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe doctrine has been superseded in the United States by worker's compensation laws, by which a worker can file for a quasi-tort, regardless of their co-worker's fault.\n\n"}
{"id": "14308145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14308145", "title": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis", "text": "Comparative bullet-lead analysis\n\nComparative bullet-lead analysis (CBLA), also known as compositional bullet-lead analysis, is a now discredited and abandoned forensic technique which used chemistry to link crime scene bullets to ones possessed by suspects on the theory that each batch of lead had a unique elemental makeup.\n\nThe technique was first used after U.S. President John F. Kennedy's assassination in 1963. From the early 1980s through 2004 the US Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted about 2,500 analyses on cases submitted by law-enforcement groups. The results of these analyses had often been questioned by defence lawyers and the press, so the FBI finally asked the United States National Academy of Science's Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy to research the scientific merit of the process.\n\nIn 2004 the Board's study was summarized in \"Forensic Analysis: Weighing Bullet Lead Evidence.\" The Board determined that the chemical analyses were being performed correctly and were probably sufficient to determine correlation between two bullets from separate sources (the analysis used plasma-optical emission spectroscopy to identify trace elements in the bullets). The report also concluded that the seven trace elements selected for the analyses (arsenic, antimony, tin, copper, bismuth, silver and cadmium) are acceptable for sample correlation. The report finally concluded that the procedure is the best available method for such correlations. The greatest caveat in the report was that the statistical tests as applied by the FBI could cause confusion and misinterpretation when transmitted to prosecutors or when explained to a trial jury. Because of the significance of this weakness, the report concluded that the analysis should be used with caution. This report helped the FBI decide in 2004 to voluntarily cease offering the analysis to law-enforcement entities. The National Academy of Sciences never required that the FBI stop using the test.\n\n\"CNN PRESENTS Encore Presentation: Reasonable Doubt\" examined the unreliability of this technique. It has been discontinued as of September 1, 2005.\n\nThe U.S. government has fought releasing the list of the estimated 2,500 cases over three decades in which it performed the analysis, which may have led to false convictions. According to the FBI, only 20% of the 2,500 tests performed introduced the CBLA results into evidence at trial.\n\nOn 17 December 2008, Jimmy Ates was released from a Florida prison after serving ten years on the conviction of having murdered his wife, a conviction obtained largely on the strength of a bullet-lead analysis. His conviction was overturned as a consequence of the 2004 report.\n\n"}
{"id": "44237411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237411", "title": "Connecticut Critics Circle", "text": "Connecticut Critics Circle\n\nThe Connecticut Critics Circle is an organization of reviewers, feature writers, columnists, and broadcasters throughout Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New York. It was founded in 1990\n\n\"To honor the actors, directors, designers and others who help make professional Connecticut theater so outstanding. ... The organization's members also meet to discuss issues regarding theater criticism. Additionally, it invites prominent guest speakers to address the membership in meetings that are open to the public.\"\n\nTheir annual awards are considered prestigious\n\nThe Tom Killen Memorial Award \"is bestowed upon those who have made extraordinary contributions to Connecticut's Equity professional theater.\" Gordon Edelstein won that award, among others, including Outstanding Director of a Play for Uncle Vanya in 2007.\n\nJeff Kready received a Connecticut Critics Circle Nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Musical.\n\nJeremy Jordan was nominated in 2008 for his role as Alex in \"The Little Dog Laughed\" at Hartford Theatreworks\n\nJoyce Ebert earned a special achievement award in 1996 for \"30 years of \"outstanding contribution to a theater in Connecticut.\"\n\nDavid Esbjornson\n\nFrank Ferrante for his portrayal of Captain Spalding in Animal Crackers at Goodspeed Opera House\n"}
{"id": "83392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83392", "title": "Counter-terrorism", "text": "Counter-terrorism\n\nCounter-terrorism (also spelled counterterrorism) incorporates the practice, military tactics, techniques, and strategy that government, military, law enforcement, business, and intelligence agencies use to combat or prevent terrorism. Counter-terrorism strategies include attempts to counter financing of terrorism.\n\nIf terrorism is part of a broader insurgency, counter-terrorism may employ counter-insurgency measures. The United States Armed Forces use the term foreign internal defense for programs that support other countries in attempts to suppress insurgency, lawlessness, or subversion or to reduce the conditions under which these threats to security may develop.\n\nIn response to the escalating terror campaign in Britain carried out by the militant Irish Fenians in the 1880s, the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt, established the first counter-terrorism unit ever. The Special Irish Branch was initially formed as a section of the Criminal Investigation Department of the London Metropolitan Police in 1883, to combat Irish republican terrorism through infiltration and subversion.\n\nHarcourt envisioned a permanent unit dedicated to the prevention of politically motivated violence through the use of modern techniques such as undercover infiltration. This pioneering branch was the first to be trained in counter-terrorism techniques.\n\nIts name was changed to Special Branch as it had its remit gradually expanded\nto incorporate a general role in counterterrorism, combating foreign subversion and infiltrating organized crime. Law enforcement agencies, in Britain and elsewhere, established similar units.\n\nCounterterrorism forces expanded with the perceived growing threat of terrorism in the late 20th century. Specifically, after the September 11 attacks, Western governments made counter-terrorism efforts a priority, including more foreign cooperation, shifting tactics involving red teams and preventive measures.\n\nMost counter-terrorism strategies involve an increase in standard police and domestic intelligence. The central activities are traditional: interception of communications, and the tracing of persons. New technology has, however, expanded the range of military and law enforcement operations.\nDomestic intelligence is often directed at specific groups, defined on the basis of origin or religion, which is a source of political controversy. Mass surveillance of an entire population raises objections on civil liberties grounds. Homegrown terrorists, especially lone wolves are often harder to detect because of their citizenship or legal status and ability to stay under the radar.\n\nTo select the effective action when terrorism appears to be more of an isolated event, the appropriate government organizations need to understand the source, motivation, methods of preparation, and tactics of terrorist groups. Good intelligence is at the heart of such preparation, as well as political and social understanding of any grievances that might be solved. Ideally, one gets information from inside the group, a very difficult challenge for HUMINT because operational terrorist cells are often small, with all members known to one another, perhaps even related.\n\nCounterintelligence is a great challenge with the security of cell-based systems, since the ideal, but nearly impossible, goal is to obtain a clandestine source within the cell. Financial tracking can play a role, as can communications intercept, but both of these approaches need to be balanced against legitimate expectations of privacy.\n\nIn response to the growing legislation.\n\nSince 1978 the UK's terrorism laws have been regularly reviewed by a security-cleared Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation, whose often influential reports are submitted to Parliament and published in full.\n\nOne of the primary difficulties of implementing effective counter-terrorist measures is the waning of civil liberties and individual privacy that such measures often entail, both for citizens of, and for those detained by states attempting to combat terror. At times, measures designed to tighten security have been seen as abuses of power or even violations of human rights.\n\nExamples of these problems can include prolonged, incommunicado detention without judicial review or long periods of 'preventive detention'; risk of subjecting to torture during the transfer, return and extradition of people between or within countries; and the adoption of security measures that restrain the rights or freedoms of citizens and breach principles of non-discrimination. Examples include:\n\nMany would argue that such violations could exacerbate rather than counter the terrorist threat. Human rights advocates argue for the crucial role of human rights protection as an intrinsic part to fight against terrorism. This suggests, as proponents of human security have long argued, that respecting human rights may indeed help us to incur security. Amnesty International included a section on confronting terrorism in the recommendations in the Madrid Agenda arising from the Madrid Summit on Democracy and Terrorism (Madrid March 8–11, 2005):\n\nWhile international efforts to combat terrorism have focused on the need to enhance cooperation between states, proponents of human rights (as well as human security) have suggested that more effort needs to be given to the effective inclusion of human rights protection as a crucial element in that cooperation. They argue that international human rights obligations do not stop at borders and a failure to respect human rights in one state may undermine its effectiveness in the international effort to cooperate to combat terrorism.\n\nSome countries see preemptive attacks as a legitimate strategy. This includes capturing, killing, or disabling suspected terrorists before they can mount an attack. Israel, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Russia have taken this approach, while Western European states generally do not.\n\nAnother major method of preemptive neutralization is interrogation of known or suspected terrorists to obtain information about specific plots, targets, the identity of other terrorists, whether or not the interrogation subjects himself is guilty of terrorist involvement. Sometimes more extreme methods are used to increase suggestibility, such as sleep deprivation or drugs. Such methods may lead captives to offer false information in an attempt to stop the treatment, or due to the confusion brought on by it. These methods are not tolerated by European powers. In 1978 the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the Ireland v. United Kingdom case that such methods amounted to a practice of inhuman and degrading treatment, and that such practices were in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights Article 3 (art. 3).\n\nThe human security paradigm outlines a non-military approach which aims to address the enduring underlying inequalities which fuel terrorist activity. Causal factors need to be delineated and measures implemented which allow equal access to resources and sustainability for all people. Such activities empower citizens providing 'freedom from fear' and 'freedom from want'.\n\nThis can take many forms including the provision of clean drinking water, education, vaccination programs, provision of food and shelter and protection from violence, military or otherwise. Successful human security campaigns have been characterized by the participation of a diverse group of actors including governments, NGOs, and citizens.\n\nForeign internal defense programs provide outside expert assistance to a threatened government. FID can involve both non-military and military aspects of counter-terrorism.\n\nA 2017 study found that \"governance and civil society aid is effective in dampening domestic terrorism, but this effect is only present if the recipient country is not experiencing a civil conflict.\"\n\nTerrorism has often been used to justify military intervention in countries like Pakistan where terrorists are said to be based. That was the main stated justification for the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan. It was also a stated justification for the second Russian invasion of Chechnya.\n\nMilitary intervention has not always been successful in stopping or preventing future terrorism, like during the Malayan Emergency, the Mau Mau uprising, and most of the campaigns against the IRA during the Irish Civil War, the S-Plan, the Border Campaign (IRA) and the Troubles in Northern Ireland. Although military action can disrupt a terrorist group's operations temporarily, it sometimes doesn't end the threat completely.\n\nThus repression by the military in itself (particularly if it is not accompanied by other measures) usually leads to short term victories, but tend to be unsuccessful in the long run (e.g. the French's doctrine described in Roger Trinquier's book \"Modern War\" used in Indochina and Algeria). However, new methods (see the new \"Counterinsurgency\" Field Manual) such as those taken in Iraq have yet to be seen as beneficial or ineffectual.\n\nPolice, fire, and emergency medical response organizations have obvious roles. Local firefighters and emergency medical personnel (often called \"first responders\") have plans for mitigating the effects of terrorist attacks, although police may deal with threats of such attacks.\n\nWhatever the target of terrorists, there are multiple ways of hardening the targets to prevent the terrorists from hitting their mark, or reducing the damage of attacks. One method is to place Hostile vehicle mitigation to enforce protective standoff distance outside tall or politically sensitive buildings to prevent car and truck bombing. Another way to reduce the impact of attacks is to design buildings for rapid evacuation.\n\nAircraft cockpits are kept locked during flights, and have reinforced doors, which only the pilots in the cabin are capable of opening. UK railway stations removed their rubbish bins in response to the Provisional IRA threat, as convenient locations for depositing bombs.\n\nScottish stations removed theirs after the 7 July 2005 London Bombings as a precautionary measure. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority purchased bomb-resistant barriers after the September 11 terrorist attacks.\nAs Israel is suffering from constant shelling of its cities, towns and settlements by artillery rockets from the Gaza Strip (mainly by Hamas, but also by other Palestinian factions) and Lebanon (mainly by Hezbollah), Israel developed several defensive measures against artillery, rockets and missiles. These include building a bomb shelter in every building and school, but also deploying active protection systems like the Arrow ABM, Iron Dome and David's Sling batteries which intercept the incoming threat in the air. Iron Dome has successfully intercepted hundreds of Qassam rockets and Grad rockets fired by Palestinians from the Gaza Strip.\n\nA more sophisticated target-hardening approach must consider industrial and other critical industrial infrastructure that could be attacked. Terrorists need not import chemical weapons if they can cause a major industrial accident such as the Bhopal disaster or the Halifax Explosion. Industrial chemicals in manufacturing, shipping, and storage need greater protection, and some efforts are in progress. To put this risk into perspective, the first used 160 tons of chlorine. Industrial shipments of chlorine, widely used in water purification and the chemical industry, travel in 90 or 55 ton tank cars.\n\nTo give one more example, the North American electrical grid has already demonstrated, in the Northeast Blackout of 2003, its vulnerability to natural disasters coupled with inadequate, possibly insecure, SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) networks. Part of the vulnerability is due to deregulation leading to much more interconnection in a grid designed for only occasional power-selling between utilities. A small number of terrorists, attacking key power facilities when one or more engineers have infiltrated the power control centers, could wreak havoc.\n\nEquipping likely targets with containers (i.e., bags) of pig lard has been utilized to discourage attacks by suicide bombers. The technique was apparently used on a limited scale by British authorities in the 1940s. The approach stems from the idea that Muslims perpetrating the attack would not want to be \"soiled\" by the lard in the moment prior to dying. The idea has been suggested more recently as a deterrent to suicide bombings in Israel. However, the actual effectiveness of this tactic is probably limited as it is possible that a sympathetic Islamic scholar could issue a fatwa proclaiming that a suicide bomber would not be polluted by the swine products.\n\nIn North America and other continents, for a threatened or completed terrorist attack, the Incident Command System (ICS) is apt to be invoked to control the various services that may need to be involved in the response. ICS has varied levels of escalation, such as might be needed for multiple incidents in a given area (e.g., the 2005 bombings in London or the 2004 Madrid train bombings, or all the way to a National Response Plan invocation if national-level resources are needed. National response, for example, might be needed for a nuclear, biological, radiological, or large chemical attack.\n\nFire departments, perhaps supplemented by public works agencies, utility providers (e.g., gas, water, electricity), and heavy construction contractors, are most apt to deal with the physical consequences of an attack.\n\nAgain under an incident command model, local police can isolate the incident area, reducing confusion, and specialized police units can conduct tactical operations against terrorists, often using specialized counter-terrorist tactical units. Bringing in such units will normally involve civil or military authority beyond the local level.\n\nEmergency medical services will triage, treat, and transport the more seriously affected victims to hospitals, which will also need to have mass casualty and triage plans in place.\n\nPublic health agencies, from local to national level, may be designated to deal with identification, and sometimes mitigation, of possible biological attacks, and sometimes chemical or radiologic contamination.\n\nToday, many countries have special units designated to handle terrorist threats. Besides various security agencies, there are elite tactical units, also known as special mission units, whose role is to directly engage terrorists and prevent terrorist attacks.\n\nSuch units perform both in preventive actions, hostage rescue and responding to on-going attacks. Countries of all sizes can have highly trained counter-terrorist teams. Tactics, techniques and procedures for manhunting are under constant development.\n\nMost of these measures deal with terrorist attacks that affect an area, or threaten to do so. It is far harder to deal with assassination, or even reprisals on individuals, due to the short (if any) warning time and the quick exfiltration of the assassins.\n\nThese units are specially trained in tactics and are very well equipped for CQB with emphasis on stealth and performing the mission with minimal casualties. The units include take-over force (assault teams), snipers, EOD experts, dog handlers and intelligence officers. See Counter-intelligence and counter-terrorism organizations for national command, intelligence, and incident mitigation.\n\nThe majority of counter-terrorism operations at the tactical level, are conducted by state, federal and national law enforcement agencies or intelligence agencies. In some countries, the military may be called in as a last resort. Obviously, for countries whose military are legally permitted to conduct police operations, this is a non-issue, and such counter-terrorism operations are conducted by their military.\n\nSee counter-intelligence for command, intelligence and warning, and incident mitigation aspects of counter-terror.\n\nSome counterterrorist actions of the 20th and 21st century are listed below. See list of hostage crises for a more extended list, including hostage-taking that did not end violently.\n\nThe scope for Anti-terrorism systems is very large in physical terms (long borders, vast areas, high traffic volumes in busy cities, etc.) as well as in other dimensions, such as type and degree of terrorism threat, political and diplomatic ramifications, and legal issues. In this environment, the development of a persistent Anti-terrorism protection system is a daunting task. Such a system should bring together diverse state-of-the-art technologies to enable persistent intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions, and enable potential actions. Designing such a system-of-systems comprises a major technological project.\n\nA particular design problem for this system is that it will face many uncertainties in the future. The threat of terrorism may increase, decrease or remain the same, the type of terrorism and location are difficult to predict, and there are technological uncertainties. Yet we want to design a terrorism system conceived and designed today in order to prevent acts of terrorism for a decade or more. A potential solution is to incorporate flexibility into system design for the reason that the flexibility embedded can be exercised in future as uncertainty unfolds and updated information arrives. And the design and valuation of a protection system should not be based on a single scenario, but an array of scenarios. Flexibility can be incorporated in the design of the terrorism system in the form of options that can be exercised in the future when new information is available. Using these 'real options' will create a flexible Anti-terrorism system that is able to cope with new requirements that may arise.\n\nWhile some countries with longstanding terrorism problems, such as Israel, have law enforcement agencies primarily designed to prevent and respond to terror attacks, in other nations, counter-terrorism is a relatively more recent objective of civilian police and law enforcement agencies.\n\nWhile some civil-libertarians and criminal justice scholars have called-out efforts of law enforcement agencies to combat terrorism as futile and expensive or as threats to civil liberties, other scholars have begun describing and analyzing the most important dimensions of the policing of terrorism as an important dimension of counterterrorism, especially in the post-9/11 era, and have argued how police institutions view terrorism as a matter of crime control. Such analyses bring out the civilian police role in counterterrorism next to the military model of a 'war on terror'.\n\nPursuant to passage of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies began to systemically reorganize. Two primary federal agencies (the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)) house most of the federal agencies that are prepared to combat domestic and international terrorist attacks. These include the Border Patrol, the Secret Service, the Coast Guard and the FBI.\n\nFollowing suit from federal changes pursuant to 9/11, however, most state and local law enforcement agencies began to include a commitment to \"fighting terrorism\" in their mission statements. Local agencies began to establish more patterned lines of communication with federal agencies. Some scholars have doubted the ability of local police to help in the war on terror and suggest their limited manpower is still best utilized by engaging community and targeting street crimes.\n\nWhile counter-terror measures (most notably heightened airport security, immigrant profiling and border patrol) have been adapted during the last decade, to enhance counter-terror in law enforcement, there have been remarkable limitations to assessing the actual utility/effectiveness of law enforcement practices that are ostensibly preventative. Thus, while sweeping changes in counter-terrorism rhetoric redefined most American post 9/11 law enforcement agencies in theory, it is hard to assess how well such hyperbole has translated into practice.\n\nIn intelligence-led policing(ILP) efforts, the most quantitatively amenable starting point for measuring the effectiveness of any policing strategy (i.e.: Neighborhood Watch, Gun Abatement, Foot Patrols, etc.) is usually to assess total financial costs against clearance rates or arrest rates. Since terrorism is such a rare event phenomena, measuring arrests or clearance rates would be a non-generalizable and ineffective way to test enforcement policy effectiveness. Another methodological problem in assessing counter-terrorism efforts in law enforcement hinges on finding operational measures for key concepts in the study of homeland security. Both terrorism and homeland security are relatively new concepts for criminologists, and academicians have yet to agree on the matter of how to properly define these ideas in a way that is accessible.\n\n+ indicates military organization allowed to operate domestically.\n\n\n\nGiven the nature of operational counter-terrorism tasks national military organizations do not generally have dedicated units whose sole responsibility is the prosecution of these tasks. Instead the counter-terrorism function is an element of the role, allowing flexibility in their employment, with operations being undertaken in the domestic or international context.\n\nIn some cases the legal framework within which they operate prohibits military units conducting operations in the domestic arena; United States Department of Defense policy, based on the Posse Comitatus Act, forbids domestic counter-terrorism operations by the U.S. military. Units allocated some operational counter-terrorism task are frequently Special Forces or similar assets.\n\nIn cases where military organisations do operate in the domestic context some form of formal handover from the law enforcement community is regularly required, to ensure adherence to the legislative framework and limitations. such as the Iranian Embassy Siege, the British police formally turned responsibility over to the Special Air Service when the situation went beyond police capabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885960", "title": "Debutante", "text": "Debutante\n\nA debutante or deb (from , \"female beginner\") is a young woman of aristocratic or upper-class family background who has reached maturity and, as a new adult, comes out into society at a formal \"debut\" or possibly debutante ball. Originally, the term meant the woman was old enough to be married, and part of the purpose of her coming out was to display her to eligible bachelors and their families with a view to marriage within a select circle.\n\nIn Australia, débutante balls (or colloquially \"deb balls\") are usually organised by high schools, church groups or service clubs, such as Lions or Rotary. The girls who take part are in either Year 10, 11 or 12 at high school (i.e. aged between 15 and 18). The event is often used as a fund-raiser for local charities.\n\nThe Australian debutante wears a white or pale-coloured gown similar to a wedding dress. However, the dress does not come with a train on the skirt, and the debutante does not wear a veil. The boy wears black tie or another formal dress suit.\n\nIt is customary for the female to ask a male to the débutante ball, with males not being able to \"do the deb\" unless they are asked. The débutantes and their partners must learn how to ballroom dance. Débutante balls are almost always held in a reception centre, school hall, the function room of a sporting or other community organisation venue e.g. RSL club, or ballroom. Usually they are held late in the year and consist of dinner, dancing, and speeches.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the last débutantes were presented at Court in 1958, after which Queen Elizabeth II abolished the ceremony. Attempts were made to keep the tradition going by organising a series of parties for young girls who might otherwise have been presented at Court in their first season (to which suitable young men were also invited) by Peter Townend. However, the withdrawal of royal patronage made these occasions increasingly insignificant, and scarcely distinguishable from any other part of the social season.\n\nThe expression \"débutante\", or \"deb\" for short, has continued to be used, especially in the press, to refer to young girls of marriageable age who participate in a semi-public upper class social scene. The expression \"deb's delight\" is applied to good looking unmarried young men from similar backgrounds.\n\nThe presentation of débutantes to the Sovereign at Court marked the start of the British social season. Applications for young women to be presented at court were required to be made by ladies who themselves had been presented to the Sovereign; the young woman's mother, for example, or someone known to the family. A mother-in-law who herself had been presented might, for example, present her new daughter-in-law.\n\nThe presentation of debutantes at court was also a way for young girls of marriageable age to be presented to suitable bachelors and their families in the hopes of finding a suitable husband. Bachelors, in turn, used the court presentation as a chance to find a suitable wife. Those who wanted to be presented at court were required to apply for permission to do so; if the application was accepted, they would be sent a royal summons from the Lord Chamberlain to attend the Presentation on a certain day. According to Debrett's, the proceedings on that day always started at 10 am. As well as débutantes, older women, and married women who had not previously been presented could be presented at Court.\nOn the day of the court presentation, the débutante and her sponsor would be announced, the debutante would curtsy to the Sovereign, and then she would leave without turning her back.\n\nThe court dress has traditionally been a white evening dress, but shades of ivory and pink were acceptable. The white dress featured short sleeves and white gloves, a veil attached to the hair with three white ostrich feathers, and a train, which the débutante would hold on her arm until she was ready to be presented. Débutantes would also wear pearls but many would also wear jewellery that belonged to the family.\n\nAfter the débutantes were presented to the monarch, they would attend the social season. The season consisted of events such as afternoon tea parties, polo matches, races at Royal Ascot, and balls. Many débutantes would also have their own \"coming-out party\" or, alternatively, a party shared with a sister or other member of family.\n\nA cotillion or débutante ball in the United States is a formal presentation of young ladies, débutantes, to \"polite society\", typically hosted by a charity or society. The ladies introduced can vary from the ages of 16 to 18 (younger ages are more typical of Southern regions, while older are more common place in the North). In some areas 15- and 16-year-olds are called \"junior débutantes\".\n\nOne of the most prestigious, the most exclusive and the most expensive debutante balls in the world is the invitation-only International Debutante Ball held at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City, where girls from prominent world families are presented to high society. The International Debutante Ball has presented princesses, countesses, baronesses and many European royalty and aristocrats as debutantes to high society, including Princess Katarina of Yugoslavia, Vanessa von Bismarck (great-great-granddaughter of Otto von Bismarck), Princess Natalya Elisabeth Davidovna Obolensky (granddaughter of the Prince Ivan Obolensky, who is the Chairman of the International Debutante Ball and himself the grandson of John Jacob Astor IV – founder of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel), Princess Ines de Bourbon Parme, Countess Magdalena Habsburg-Lothringen (great-great-granddaughter of Empress Elisabeth \"Sisi\" of Austria) and Lady Henrietta Seymour (daughter of the Duke and Duchess of Somerset) Daughters and granddaughters of billionaire businessmen, American politicians, senators, congressmen, ambassadors and even many United States Presidents have also been presented at the International Debutante Ball; for example, Tricia Nixon, Julie Nixon, Jennie Eisenhower, Ashley Walker Bush (granddaughter of President George H. W. Bush and niece of President George W. Bush), Lucinda Robb (granddaughter of President Lyndon B. Johnson), Christine Colby (daughter of CIA director William Colby), Hollister Knowlton (future wife of CIA director David Petraeus), Charlotte and Catherine Forbes (granddaughters of Malcolm Forbes) and Christina Huffington (daughter of Arianna Huffington of the Huffington Post). Ivanka Trump (daughter of President Donald Trump) and Sasha and Malia Obama (daughters of President Barack Obama) have also been invited to be presented as debutantes at the International Debutante Ball in New York City.\n\nTo gain entrance to a debutante ball, débutantes must usually be recommended by a distinguished committee or sponsored by an established member of élite society, typically their mothers or other female relatives. Wearing white gowns and satin or kid gloves, the débutantes stand in a receiving line, and then are introduced individually to the audience. The débutante is announced and then is walked around the stage, guided by her father who then presents her. Her younger male escort then joins her and escorts her away. Each débutante brings at least one escort, sometimes two. Many débutante balls select escorts and then pair them with the debs to promote good social pairings. Cotillions may be elaborate formal affairs and involve not only \"debs\" but junior débutantes, escorts and ushers, flower girls and pages as well. Every débutante must perform a curtsy also known as the St. James Bow or a full court bow, with the exception of Texas débutantes who are presented at the International Debutante Ball at New York City's Waldorf Astoria Hotel, who perform the \"Texas Dip\". This gesture is made as the young woman is formally presented. Débutante balls exist in nearly every major city in the United States but are more common and larger affairs in the American South. The Christmas Cotillion in Savannah, Georgia, first held in 1817, is the oldest débutante ball in the United States. Many cities such as Dallas and Atlanta have several balls in a season. Dallas, for example, is home of the traditional Idlewild organisation, as well as more modern organisations such as the Dallas Symphony Orchestra Presentation Ball and La Fiesta de las Seis Banderas, both of which benefit charities. The National Cotillion and Thanksgiving Ball of Washington, DC., hosted by Mary-Stuart Montague Price, has met every November for over 60 years with proceeds going to Children's Hospital.\n\nIn New Orleans, Louisiana, a débutante is usually presented during the Carnival season. In New York City, there are still several deb balls. One that draws from all over the world is the International Debutante Ball. Also, there are other charity and social balls such as the Infirmary (benefits the local hospital), the Society of Mayflower Descendants Ball, and the Saint Nicholas Society of the City of New York Ball (founded 1835). As an alternative to a ball, and more commonly in the old North, a young woman might have her own \"coming-out party\", given by her parents. Unlike a collective ball, which would be only held at a certain time of the year, such a party could be at any time of the year, but might well be scheduled around the débutante's birthday or graduation from high school or university. In theory, the only women who could be invited would be those who had already made their débuts, thus affording a sort of rank-order to the débutante season. \"Old-money\" families often send their preteen sons and daughters to dancing classes, called cotillion, and etiquette lessons in preparation for these parties, which launch their children into society and act as major networking events. Even less grand débutante balls typically require debs to attend a few lessons in social dance, comportment, and in executing their curtsy.\n\nThe African American community has a long tradition of charitable events and activities since the early 20th century. A large portion of these activities happened during social events and formal activities, namely, cotillions and debutante balls. It was at these events that those African Americans who had the means to expand their wealth were able to meet with other successful African Americans, and make social and political and economic connections. These formal cotillion and debutante balls still thrive as a viable outlet for those seeking success to participate in one of the most traditional vestiges of the African American upper class.\n\nVarious Ukrainian émigré organisations in the United States such as the Ukrainian American Medical Association of North America, the Ukrainian Engineers' Society of America, Plast Ukrainian Scouting Organization, and the Ukrainian American Youth Association have hosted annual black-tie debutante balls since the Second World War as fundraisers and introduce young Ukrainian ladies between the ages of 16 and 18 to their local Ukrainian communities. Ukrainian American debutante balls take place in many American cities such as Chicago, Philadelphia, Newark, Washington D.C., and Detroit. Besides the traditional waltz of the debutantes, one of the highlights of these balls is the Kolomyjka which usually takes place past midnight wherein every guest has the opportunity to spontaneously demonstrate their Ukrainian dance skills such as the Hopak or Arkan. Kolomyjka dances tend to last upwards of a half-hour of nonstop folk dancing, ultimately returning to the traditional black-tie ball atmosphere.\n\nIn most areas of the United States, the debutante ball and coming out party have largely been replaced with a combination of the senior prom and the graduation party (see Academic graduation by country) which extend the \"coming out\" to include young adult males. The senior prom is a black-tie dance hosted by the school for high schoolers in their last year, seen as a teenage rite of passage. Prom season tends to last from April until May. Upon their child's graduation from high school, parents may throw him or her a high school graduation party to celebrate the achievement and the child's ascension into \"adulthood\". Graduation party season may last from May until June of each year, with multiple parties held each weekend, and the parent's coworkers, extended family, and members of the community are invited for networking, rather than solely the honoree's friends. Instead of a ball, these parties usually follow an informal open house (common school event) reception model or may be a garden party, with guests coming and going as they please. Cash gifts and advice for the honoree are expected in most communities and it is considered insulting to decline attendance.\n\nSeveral television series focused on young people from wealthy families include episodes with débutante events. \"The Debut,\" an episode of \"The O.C.\" (a drama about upper middle class Californians), featured a representation of an American débutante ball. \"Hi, Society,\" (season 1 episode 10), \"They Shoot Humphreys, Don't They?,\" (season 3 episode 9), \"Riding in Town Cars with Boys (season 5, episode 10), and \"Monstrous Ball\" (season 6, episode 5) of \"Gossip Girl\", also from \"The O.C.\" creator Josh Schwartz, features a débutante ball in New York City. \"Presenting Lorelai Gilmore\", an episode of \"Gilmore Girls\" shows Rory Gilmore as a débutante. She makes her debut at a Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) débutante ball that her grandmother helped put together. In \"The Critic\", Jay Sherman's younger sister Margo is persuaded to reluctantly attend her débutante ball.\n\nCrime dramas also have investigated début-related murders. \"Zoo York,\" an episode of \"\", featured the CSI team investigating the murder of a débutante. Medical examiner Evan Zao comments that he attended a débutante ball. \"Debut\", an episode of \"Cold Case\", tells the story of a young girl who is murdered the night of her débutante ball. In an episode of \"\", entitled \"Streetwise\", detectives investigated the rape and murder of a débutante.\n\nFilms with débutante themes include \"Metropolitan\", Whit Stillman's début feature film, a comedy of manners set during the deb season in Manhattan, and \"What a Girl Wants\", a 2003 film in which Amanda Bynes plays an American teen whose estranged father is a British Lord, and who is presented at a coming out party after being reunited with her mother. In another movie featuring Bynes, \"She's The Man\", the main character attends a debutantes preparation program throughout the movie which ends with the Debutante's ball\". Something New\", a romantic comedy has a cotillion scene of upper class African Americans on the west coast. \"The Debut\", a film considered to be an accurate snapshot of contemporary Filipino American life, touches upon a wide variety of cultural themes within the plot of an informal débutante event. The 1992 film \"The Addams Family\" is centred around the reconciliation of Gomez and Fester Addams, who had had a falling out as teenagers when Gomez had wooed both his date and Fester's (Flora and Fauna Amore, the siamese twins) at the débutante ball. In the 1994 film \"Little Women\", a 'coming-out' party is thrown, Aunt March is also seen talking to Marmee about when Meg will be introduced into society.\n\nIn the premiere of \"The City\", Whitney Port's reality show, her co-worker Olivia Palermo describes her first pair of Manolo Blahnik shoes that she wore to her \"Deb\" back when she was 18 years of age.\n\nIn the Disney Channel made-for-TV movie \"Cow Belles\", starring Aly & AJ, one of their characters gets kicked out of the ball for not having enough money.\n\nIn an episode of the Nickelodeon television series CatDog, there is an entire story based on the debutante of the character Shriek, a member of a gang called the Greaser Dogs who happens to come from a wealthy family.\n\nIn season 4, episode 11, \"Time's Arrow\" of the Netflix original series BoJack Horseman, Bojack's elderly mother with dementia, Beatrice Sugarman, recalls the time she met Bojack's father, Butterscotch Horseman, after he crashed her debutante ball.\n\nIn Mexico, Dominican Republic, Panama, Puerto Rico and Paraguay, débutantes are young girls who take part in a \"Festival de Debutantes\", or a \"Quince Años\" upon their fifteenth birthday.\n\nIn Brazil and Mexico, such events are called \"Baile de Debutante\" (Spanish and Portuguese) or \"Festa de Debutante\" (only Portuguese), or \"Quince Años\" (Spanish) or \"Quinze Anos\" (Portuguese).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30303286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30303286", "title": "Decoding Reality", "text": "Decoding Reality\n\nDecoding Reality: The Universe as Quantum Information is a popular science book by Vlatko Vedral published by Oxford University Press in 2010. Vedral examines information theory and proposes information as the most fundamental building block of reality. He argues what a useful framework this is for viewing all natural and physical phenomena. In building out this framework the books touches upon the origin of information, the idea of entropy, the roots of this thinking in thermodynamics, the replication of DNA, development of social networks, quantum behaviour at the micro and macro level, and the very role of indeterminism in the universe. The book finishes by considering the answer to the ultimate question: where did all of the information in the Universe come from? The ideas address concepts related to the nature of particles, time, determinism, and of reality itself.\n\nVedral believes in the principle that information is physical. \"Creation ex nihilo\" comes from Catholic dogma, the idea being that God created the universe out of nothing. Vedral says that invoking a supernatural being as an explanation for creation does not explain reality because the supernatural being would have to come into existence itself too somehow presumably from nothing (or else from an infinite regression of supernatural beings), thus of course the reality can come from nothing without a supernatural being. Occam's razor principle favours the simplest explanation. Vedral believes information is the fundamental building block of reality as it occurs at the macro level (economics, human behaviour etc.) as well as the subatomic level. Vedral argues that information is the only candidate for such a building block that can explain its own existence as information generates additional information that needs to be compressed thus generating more information. 'Annihilation of everything' is a more fitting term than \"creation ex nihilo\" Vedral states, as compression of possibilities is the process of how new information is created.\n\nVedral uses an Italo Calvino philosophical story about a tarot-like card game as the kernel for his metaphor of conscious life arriving \"in medias res\" to a pre-existing contextual reality. In this game the individual observers/players (Vedral suggests: quantum physics, thermodynamics, biology, sociology, economics, philosophy) lay down cards with ambiguous meanings as an attempt to communicate messages to deduce meaning out of the other players' interactions. The results (information) of previous rounds establish contextual rules for observers/players in subsequent rounds. The point of this game is not established until the last card has been played as later cards can change the meaning of previous events, as in the case of the quantum explanation for the photoelectric effect instantly disproving classical physics. Vedral points out that in our reality there is no last card.\n\nShannon entropy or information content measured as the surprise value of a particular event, is essentially inversely proportional to the logarithm of the event's probability, i = log(1/p). Claude Shannon's information theory arose from research at Bell labs, building upon George Boole's digital logic. As information theory predicts common and easily predicted words tend to become shorter for optimal communication channel efficiency while less common words tend to be longer for redundancy and error correction. Vedral compares the process of life to John von Neumann's self replicating automata. These are enduring information carriers that will survive wear and tear of the individual by producing copies that can in turn go on to produce more copies.\n\nGenetic code as an efficient digital information store, containing built in codon redundancy for error correction in transcription.\n\nExamines the Second law of thermodynamics and the process of information increasing entropy. Maxwell's Demon was thought to be a way around this inevitability, however such a demon would run out of information storage space and have to delete unwanted data thus having to do work to do so, increasing entropy.\n\nBlackjack as controlled risk taking using Shannon's information theory probability formulas. Casino as a ′cool′ financial entropy source and the gambler as a ′hot′ financial source, once again the Second law of thermodynamics means the flow is almost always from hot to cold in the long run. For managed risk spread bets widely and in high risk high reward investments (assuming a known probability), this is the Log optimal portfolio approach.\n\nSix degrees of separation means well connected people tend to be more successful as their social networks expose them to more chances to make choices they want. Schelling precommitment as strategy in social and self-control, for example burning your bridges by buying gym membership to help motivated self win over lazy self. Mutual information resulting in phase transitions in social and political demography as well as physical systems, like water freezing into ice at a particular critical temperature or magnetic fields spontaneously aligning in certain atoms when cooling from a molten state.\n\nVedral examines the basis of quantum information, the qubit, and examines one-time pad quantum cryptography as the most secure form of encryption because of its uncomputability. Quantum entanglement demonstrates the importance of mutual information in defining outcomes in a reality.\n\nQuantum computers offer a search advantage over classical computers by searching many database elements at once as a result of quantum superpositions. A sufficiently advanced quantum computer would break current encryption methods by factorizing large numbers several orders of magnitude faster than any existing classical computer. Any computable problem may be expressed as a general quantum search algorithm although classical computers may have an advantage over quantum search when using more efficient tailored classical algorithms. The issue with quantum computers is that a measurement must be made to determine if the problem is solved which collapses the superposition. Vedral points out that unintentional interaction with the environment can be mitigated with redundancy, and this would be necessary if we were to scale up current quantum computers to achieve greater utility, i.e. to utilize 10 qubits have a 100 atom quantum system so that if one atom decoheres a consensus will still be held by the other 9 for the state of the same qubit.\n\nRandomness is key to generating new sources of surprise in a reality. Compression of these new sources to discard unimportant information is the deterministic element and organising principle.\n\nThe information content of the universe as measured in bits or qubits. Vedral uses the initial effort of Archimedes of Syracuse in calculating the amount of sand that could theoretically fit inside the universe and compares it to a modern-day attempt to calculate the bit content of the universe. Vedral however sees this content as ultimately limitless as possibly maximum entropy is never reached as compression of complexity is an open ended process and random events will continue to occur. As Vedral sees information as the ultimate building block of physical reality, he speculates that information originating at any scale can force outcomes in all other scales to abide where mutual information is shared. For example, a human performed macro-level scientific test in search of a behaviour in a quantum particle could set parameters for that type of particle in the future when subjected to a similar test.\n\nThe information basis for \"creation ex nihilo\". According to John von Neumann, starting trivially from an empty set of numbers an infinite sequence of numbers can bootstrap their way out. An empty set creates the number 1 by observing an empty set within itself which is enough of a basis for distinguishability. It creates the number 2 by observing an empty set within the second empty set and the number 1, and so on. Vedral sees this not as creation but as data compression, as every event of a reality breaks the symmetry of the pre-existing formlessness. Science is the process of describing a large amount of observed phenomena in a compressed programmatic way to predict future outcomes, and in this process of data compression science creates new information by eliminating all contrary possibilities to explain those phenomena.\n\nThe book explains the world as being made up of information. The Universe and its workings are the ebb and flow of information. We are all transient patterns of information, passing on the recipe for our basic forms to future generations using a four-letter digital code called DNA. In this engaging and mind-stretching account, Vlatko Vedral considers some of the deepest questions about the Universe and considers the implications of interpreting it in terms of information. He explains the nature of information, the idea of entropy, and the roots of this thinking in thermodynamics. He describes the bizarre effects of quantum behaviour - effects such as 'entanglement', which Einstein called 'spooky action at a distance' and explores cutting edge work on the harnessing quantum effects in hyperfast quantum computers, and how recent evidence suggests that the weirdness of the quantum world, once thought limited to the tiniest scales, may reach into the macro world. Vedral finishes by considering the answer to the ultimate question: where did all of the information in the Universe come from? The answers he considers are exhilarating, drawing upon the work of distinguished physicist John Wheeler and his concept of “it from bit”. The ideas challenge our concept of the nature of particles, of time, of determinism, and of reality itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "591638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591638", "title": "Dihydrotestosterone", "text": "Dihydrotestosterone\n\nDihydrotestosterone (DHT, 5α-dihydrotestosterone, 5α-DHT, androstanolone or stanolone) is an endogenous androgen sex steroid and hormone. The enzyme 5α-reductase catalyzes the formation of DHT from testosterone in certain tissues including the prostate gland, seminal vesicles, epididymides, skin, hair follicles, liver, and brain. This enzyme mediates reduction of the C4-5 double bond of testosterone. Relative to testosterone, DHT is considerably more potent as an agonist of the androgen receptor (AR).\n\nIn addition to its role as a natural hormone, DHT has been used as a medication, for instance in the treatment of low testosterone levels in men; for information on DHT as a medication, see the androstanolone article.\n\nDHT is biologically important for sexual differentiation of the male genitalia during embryogenesis, maturation of the penis and scrotum at puberty, growth of facial, body, and pubic hair, and development and maintenance of the prostate gland and seminal vesicles. It is produced from the less potent testosterone by the enzyme 5α-reductase in select tissues, and is the primary androgen in the genitals, prostate gland, seminal vesicles, skin, and hair follicles.\n\nDHT signals mainly in an intracrine and paracrine manner in the tissues in which it is produced, playing only a minor role, if any, as a circulating endocrine hormone. Circulating levels of DHT are 1/10th and 1/20th those of testosterone in terms of total and free concentrations, respectively, whereas local DHT levels may be up to 10 times those of testosterone in tissues with high 5α-reductase expression such as the prostate gland. In addition, unlike testosterone, DHT is inactivated by 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3α-HSD) into the very weak androgen 3α-androstanediol in various tissues such as muscle, adipose, and liver among others, and in relation to this, DHT has been reported to be a very poor anabolic agent when administered exogenously as a medication.\n\nIn addition to normal biological functions, DHT also plays an important causative role in a number of androgen-dependent conditions including hair conditions like hirsutism (excessive facial/body hair growth) and pattern hair loss (androgenic alopecia or pattern baldness) and prostate diseases such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer. 5α-Reductase inhibitors, which prevent DHT synthesis, are effective in the prevention and treatment of these conditions.\n\nMetabolites of DHT have been found to act as neurosteroids with their own AR-independent biological activity. 3α-Androstanediol is a potent positive allosteric modulator of the GABA receptor, while 3β-androstanediol is a potent and selective agonist of the estrogen receptor (ER) subtype ERβ. These metabolites may play important roles in the central effects of DHT and by extension testosterone, including their antidepressant, anxiolytic, rewarding/hedonic, anti-stress, and pro-cognitive effects.\n\nMuch of the biological role of DHT has been elucidated in studies of individuals with congenital 5α-reductase type II deficiency, an intersex condition caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the gene encoding 5α-reductase type II, the major enzyme responsible for the production of DHT in the body. It is characterized by a defective and non-functional 5α-reductase type II enzyme and a partial but majority loss of DHT production in the body. In the condition, circulating testosterone levels are within or slightly above the normal male range, but DHT levels are low (around 30% of normal), and the ratio of circulating testosterone to DHT is greatly elevated (at about 3.5 to 5 times higher than normal).\n\nGenetic males (46,XY) with 5α-reductase type II deficiency are born with undervirilization including pseudohermaphroditism (ambiguous genitalia), pseudovaginal perineoscrotal hypospadias, and usually undescended testes. Their external genitalia are female-like, with micropenis (a small, clitoris-like phallus), a partially unfused, labia-like scrotum, and a blind-ending, shallow vaginal pouch. Due to their lack of conspicuous male genitalia, genetic males with the condition are typically raised as girls. At the time of puberty however, they develop striking phenotypically masculine secondary sexual characteristics including partial virilization of the genitals (enlargement of the phallus into a near-functional penis and descent of the testes), voice deepening, typical male musculoskeletal development, and no menstruation, breast development, or other signs of feminization that occur during female puberty. In addition, normal libido and spontaneous erections develop, they usually show a sexual preference for females, and almost all develop a male gender identity.\n\nNonetheless, males with 5α-reductase type II deficiency exhibit signs of continued undervirilization in a number of domains. Facial hair was absent or sparse in a relatively large group of Dominican males with the condition. However, more facial hair has been observed in patients with the disorder from other parts of the world, although facial hair was still reduced relative to that of other men in the same communities. The divergent findings may reflect racial differences in androgen-dependent hair growth. A female pattern of androgenic hair growth, with terminal hair largely restricted to the axillae and lower pubic triangle, is observed in males with the condition. No temporal recession of the hairline or androgenic alopecia (pattern hair loss or baldness) has been observed in any of the cases of 5α-reductase type II deficiency that have been reported, whereas this is normally seen to some degree in almost all Caucasian males. Individuals with 5α-reductase type II deficiency were initially reported to have no incidence of acne, but subsequent research indicated normal sebum secretion and acne incidence.\n\nIn genetic males with 5α-reductase type II deficiency, the prostate gland is rudimentary or absent, and if present, remains small, underdeveloped, and unpalpable throughout life. In addition, neither BPH nor prostate cancer have been reported in these individuals. Genetic males with the condition generally show oligozoospermia due to undescended testes, but spermatogenesis is reported to be normal in those with testes that have descended, and there are case instances of men with the condition successfully fathering children.\n\nUnlike males, genetic females with 5α-reductase type II deficiency are phenotypically normal. However, similarly to genetic males with the condition, they show reduced body hair growth, including an absence of hair on the arms and legs, slightly decreased axillary hair, and moderately decreased pubic hair. On the other hand, sebum production is normal. This is in accordance with the fact that sebum secretion appears to be entirely under the control of 5α-reductase type I.\n\n5α-Reductase inhibitors like finasteride and dutasteride inhibit 5α-reductase type II and/or other isoforms and are able to decrease circulating DHT levels by 65 to 98% depending on the 5α-reductase inhibitor in question. As such, similarly to the case of 5α-reductase type II deficiency, they provide useful insights in the elucidation of the biological functions of DHT. 5α-Reductase inhibitors were developed and are used primarily for the treatment of BPH. The drugs are able to significantly reduce the size of the prostate gland and to alleviate symptoms of the condition. Long-term treatment with 5α-reductase inhibitors is also able to significantly reduce the overall risk of prostate cancer, although a simultaneous small increase in the risk of certain high-grade tumors has been observed. In addition to prostate diseases, 5α-reductase inhibitors have subsequently been developed and introduced for the treatment of pattern hair loss in men. They are able to prevent further progression of hair loss in most men with the condition and to produce some recovery of hair in about two-thirds of men. 5α-Reductase inhibitors seem to be less effective for pattern hair loss in women on the other hand, although they do still show some effectiveness. Aside from pattern hair loss, the drugs are also useful in the treatment of hirsutism and can greatly reduce facial and body hair growth in women with the condition.\n\n5α-Reductase inhibitors are overall well-tolerated and show a low incidence of adverse effects. Sexual dysfunction, including erectile dysfunction, loss of libido, and reduced ejaculate volume, may occur in 3.4 to 15.8% of men treated with finasteride or dutasteride. A small increase in the risk of affective symptoms including depression, anxiety, and self-harm may be seen. Both the sexual dysfunction and affective symptoms may be due partially or fully to prevention of the synthesis of neurosteroids like allopregnanolone rather necessarily than due to inhibition of DHT production. A very small risk of gynecomastia has been associated with 5α-reductase inhibitors (1.2 to 3.5%). Based on reports of 5α-reductase type II deficiency in males and the effectiveness of 5α-reductase inhibitors for hirsutism in women, reduced body and/or facial hair growth is a likely potential side effect of these drugs in men. There are very few studies evaluating the side effects of 5α-reductase inhibitors in women. However, due to the known role of DHT in male sexual differentiation, 5α-reductase inhibitors may cause birth defects such as ambiguous genitalia in the male fetuses of pregnant women. As such, they are not used in women during pregnancy.\n\nMK-386 is a selective 5α-reductase type I inhibitor which was never marketed. Whereas 5α-reductase type II inhibitors achieve much higher reductions in circulating DHT production, MK-386 decreases circulating DHT levels by 20 to 30%. Conversely, it was found to decrease sebum DHT levels by 55% in men versus a modest reduction of only 15% for finasteride. However, MK-386 failed to show significant effectiveness in a subsequent clinical study for the treatment of acne.\n\nDHT is a potent agonist of the AR, and is in fact the most potent known endogenous ligand of the receptor. It has an affinity (K) of 0.25 to 0.5 nM for the human AR, which is about 2- to 3-fold higher than that of testosterone (K = 0.4 to 1.0 nM) and 15–30 times higher than that of adrenal androgens. In addition, the dissociation rate of DHT from the AR is 5-fold slower than that of testosterone. The EC of DHT for activation of the AR is 0.13 nM, which is about 5-fold stronger than that of testosterone (EC = 0.66 nM). In bioassays, DHT has been found to be 2.5- to 10-fold more potent than testosterone.\n\nThe terminal half-life of DHT in the body (53 minutes) is longer than that of testosterone (34 minutes), and this may account for some of the difference in their potency. A study of transdermal DHT and testosterone treatment reported terminal half-lives of 2.83 hours and 1.29 hours, respectively.\n\nUnlike other androgens such as testosterone, DHT cannot be converted by the enzyme aromatase into an estrogen like estradiol. Therefore, it is frequently used in research settings to distinguish between the effects of testosterone caused by binding to the AR and those caused by testosterone's conversion to estradiol and subsequent binding to and activation of ERs. Although DHT cannot be aromatized, it is still transformed into metabolites with significant ER affinity and activity. These are 3α-androstanediol and 3β-androstanediol, which are predominant agonists of the ERβ.\n\nDHT is synthesized irreversibly from testosterone by the enzyme 5α-reductase. This occurs in various tissues including the genitals (penis, scrotum, clitoris, labia majora), prostate gland, skin, hair follicles, liver, and brain. Around 5 to 7% of testosterone undergoes 5α-reduction into DHT, and approximately 200 to 300 μg of DHT is synthesized in the body per day. Most DHT is produced in peripheral tissues like the skin and liver, whereas most \"circulating\" DHT originates specifically from the liver. The testes and prostate gland contribute relatively little to concentrations of DHT in circulation.\n\nThere are two major isoforms of 5α-reductase, SRD5A1 (type I) and SRD5A2 (type II), with the latter being the most biologically important isoenzyme. There is also third 5α-reductase: SRD5A3. SRD5A2 is most highly expressed in the genitals, prostate gland, epididymides, seminal vesicles, genital skin, facial and chest hair follicles, and liver, while lower expression is observed in certain brain areas, non-genital skin/hair follicles, testes, and kidneys. SRD5A1 is most highly expressed in non-genital skin/hair follicles, the liver, and certain brain areas, while lower levels are present in the prostate, epididymides, seminal vesicles, genital skin, testes, adrenal glands, and kidneys. In the skin, 5α-reductase is expressed in sebaceous glands, sweat glands, epidermal cells, and hair follicles. Both isoenzymes are expressed in scalp hair follicles, although SRD5A2 predominates in these cells. The SRD5A2 subtype is the almost exclusive isoform expressed in the prostate gland.\n\nThe plasma protein binding of DHT is more than 99%. In men, approximately 0.88% of DHT is unbound and hence free, while in premenopausal women, about 0.47–0.48% is unbound. In men, DHT is bound 49.7% to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), 39.2% to albumin, and 0.22% to corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), while in premenopausal women, DHT is bound 78.1–78.4% to SHBG, 21.0–21.3% to albumin, and 0.12% to CBG. In late pregnancy, only 0.07% of DHT is unbound in women; 97.8% is bound to SHBG while 2.15% is bound to albumin and 0.04% is bound to CBG. DHT has higher affinity for SHBG than does testosterone, estradiol, or any other steroid hormone.\n\nDHT is inactivated in the liver and extrahepatic tissues like the skin into 3α-androstanediol and 3β-androstanediol by the enzymes 3α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, respectively. These metabolites are in turn converted, respectively, into androsterone and epiandrosterone, then conjugated (via glucuronidation and/or sulfation), released into circulation, and excreted in urine.\n\nUnlike testosterone, DHT cannot be aromatized into an estrogen like estradiol, and for this reason, has no propensity for estrogenic effects.\n\nDHT is excreted in the urine as metabolites, such as conjugates of 3α-androstanediol and androsterone.\n\nSerum DHT levels are about 10% of those of testosterone, but levels in the prostate gland are 5- to 10-fold higher than those of testosterone due to a more than 90% conversion of testosterone into DHT by locally expressed 5α-reductase. For this reason, and in addition to the fact that DHT is much more potent as an AR agonist than is testosterone, DHT is considered to be the major androgen of the prostate gland.\n\nDHT is available in pharmaceutical formulations for medical use as an androgen or anabolic–androgenic steroid (AAS). It is used mainly in the treatment of male hypogonadism. When used as a medication, dihydrotestosterone is referred to as \"androstanolone\" () or as \"stanolone\" (), and is sold under brand names such as \"Andractim\" among others. The availability of pharmaceutical DHT is limited; it is not available in the United States or Canada, but is available in certain European countries. The available formulations of DHT include buccal or sublingual tablets, topical gels, and, as esters in oil, injectables like androstanolone propionate and androstanolone valerate.\n\nDHT, also known as 5α-androstan-17β-ol-3-one, is a naturally occurring androstane steroid with a ketone group at the C3 position and a hydroxyl group at the C17β position. It is the derivative of testosterone in which the double bond between the C4 and C5 positions has been reduced or hydrogenated.\n\nDHT was first synthesized by Adolf Butenandt and his colleagues in 1935. It was prepared via hydrogenation of testosterone, which had been discovered earlier that year. DHT was introduced for medical use as an AAS in 1953, and was noted to be more potent than testosterone but with reduced androgenicity. It was not elucidated to be an endogenous substance until 1956, when it was shown to be formed from testosterone in rat liver homogenates. In addition, the biological importance of DHT was not realized until the early 1960s, when it was found to be produced by 5α-reductase from circulating testosterone in target tissues like the prostate gland and seminal vesicles and was found to be more potent than testosterone in bioassays. The biological functions of DHT in humans became much more clearly defined upon the discovery and characterization of 5α-reductase type II deficiency in 1974. DHT was the last major sex hormone, the others being testosterone, estradiol, and progesterone, to be discovered, and is unique in that it is the only major sex hormone that functions principally as an intracrine and paracrine hormone rather than as an endocrine hormone.\n"}
{"id": "1504970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504970", "title": "Exclusionary rule", "text": "Exclusionary rule\n\nIn the United States, the exclusionary rule is a legal rule, based on constitutional law. The rule prevents evidence collected or analyzed in violation of the defendant's constitutional rights from being used in a court of law. This may be considered an example of a prophylactic rule formulated by the judiciary in order to protect a constitutional right. The exclusionary rule may also, in some circumstances at least, be considered to follow directly from the constitutional language, such as the Fifth Amendment's command that no person \"shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself\" and that no person \"shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law\".\n\n\"The exclusionary rule is grounded in the Fourth Amendment and it is intended to protect citizens from illegal searches and seizures.\" The exclusionary rule is also designed to provide a remedy and disincentive, which is short of criminal prosecution in response to prosecutors and police who illegally gather evidence in violation of the Fifth Amendment in the Bill of Rights compelled to self-incrimination. The exclusionary rule also protects against violations of the Sixth Amendment, which guarantees the right to counsel.\n\nMost states also have their own exclusionary remedies for illegally obtained evidence under their state constitutions and/or statutes, some of which predate the federal constitutional guarantees against unlawful searches and seizures and compelled self-incrimination.\n\nThis rule is occasionally referred to as a legal technicality because it allows defendants a defense that does not address whether the crime was actually committed. In this respect, it is similar to the explicit rule in the Fifth Amendment protecting people from double jeopardy.\nIn strict cases, when an illegal action is used by police/prosecution to gain any incriminating result, \"all\" evidence whose recovery stemmed from the illegal action—this evidence is known as \"fruit of the poisonous tree\"—can be thrown out from a jury (or be grounds for a mistrial if too much information has been irrevocably revealed).\n\nThe exclusionary rule applies to all persons within the United States regardless of whether they are citizens, immigrants (legal or illegal), or visitors.\n\nUp until the independence of the United States, the courts of England excluded self-incriminating evidence that was provided as a result of official compulsion, regardless of its reliability. In 1769, Lord Chief Justice Mansfield explained as follows:\n\nChief Justice Mansfield also explained that \"If any evidence or confession has been extorted from her, it will be of no prejudice to her on the trial.\" Additionally, a defendant could sue to suppress and regain possession of at least some types of illegally seized evidence, in a common law action for replevin.\n\nHowever, in the 1783 case of \"Ceglinski v. Orr\", the English courts declined to suppress evidence obtained by illegal coercion. In the \"Warickshall\" case, evidence was gathered as a result of an involuntary confession, and the court held that the evidence (but not the confession itself) could be admitted. It is questionable whether the \"Warickshall\" rule became known in the United States before 1789 (when the U.S. Bill of Rights was written), and whether it applied to confessions obtained by both governmental and private parties. In any event, no decision by the Supreme Court of the United States has ever endorsed the \"Warickshall\" rule as a constitutional matter.\n\nGenerally speaking, English law before 1789 did not provide as strong an exclusionary rule as the one that later developed under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, regarding unlawful searches and seizures. The Fourth Amendment, after all, was partly a reaction against English law including the general warrant and the writs of assistance.\n\nIn the 1886 case of \"Boyd v. United States\", the U.S. Supreme Court addressed compulsory production of business papers, and the Court excluded those papers based on a combination of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. \"Boyd\" was closely limited to its facts, and several years later the Court stated that the Fourth Amendment does not extend to \"excluding testimony\" about wrongful searches and seizures.\n\nIn 1897, the U.S. Supreme Court held, in \"Bram v. United States\", that involuntary confessions are inadmissible as evidence. The Court in \"Bram\" did not announce a strong version of the exclusionary rule that would apply uniformly to exclude all evidence gathered in violation of the Bill of Rights, but instead announced a weak version that excluded only self-incriminating testimony that was compelled in violation of the Fifth Amendment. The distinction between testimonial versus other self-incriminating evidence is a matter of continuing debate.\n\nBefore a strong version of the exclusionary rule was addressed and adopted by the federal courts, it had already been adopted by at least one state court, namely the Iowa Supreme Court, as that court would later describe:\n\nIn 1914, the U.S. Supreme Court announced a strong version of the exclusionary rule, in the case of \"Weeks v. United States\", under the Fourth Amendment prohibiting unreasonable searches and seizures. This decision, however, created the rule only on the federal level. The \"\"Weeks\" rule,\" which made an exception for cases at the state level, was adopted by numerous states at a time during prohibition. In adopting the rule, actions by states often reflected attitudes towards prohibition, which was enacted by adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment and was enforced through the Volstead Act. Concerns about privacy violations also extended to other instances where criminal sanctions were permitted for \"victimless\" crime, such as illegal gambling or narcotics violations.\n\nIn 1920, the U.S. Supreme Court adopted the \"fruit of the poisonous tree\" doctrine in the case of \"Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States\". The Court stated that allowing evidence gathered as an indirect result of an unconstitutional search and seizure \"reduces the Fourth Amendment to a form of words\".\n\n\"Wolf v. Colorado\" ruled that states were not required to adopt the exclusionary rule. Despite the ruling, some states adopted the exclusionary rule. In 1955, the Supreme Court of California ruled in \"People v. Cahan\" that the exclusionary rule applied for cases in the state of California. By 1960, 22 states had adopted the rule without substantial qualifications: California, Delaware, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Washington, Texas, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming. Michigan also had an exclusionary rule, but with limitations for some narcotics and firearms evidence. In Alabama, Maryland, and South Dakota, the exclusionary rule applied in some situations.\n\nIt was not until \"Mapp v. Ohio\" in 1961 that the exclusionary rule was also held to be binding on the states through the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees due process. Up until \"Mapp\", the exclusionary rule had been rejected by most states.\n\nIn 2016, Utah v. Strieff dealt with the exclusionary rule and outstanding warrants and was viewed to be generally favorable towards police.\n\nThe exclusionary rule does not apply in a civil case, in a grand jury proceeding, or in a parole revocation hearing.\n\nEven in a criminal case, the exclusionary rule does not simply bar the introduction of all evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth, Fifth, or Sixth Amendment. In \"Hudson v. Michigan\", Justice Scalia wrote for the U.S. Supreme Court:\n\nLimitations on the exclusionary rule have included the following:\n\nThe exclusionary rule is not applicable to non-U.S. nationals residing outside of U.S. borders. In \"United States v. Alvarez-Machain\", the U.S. Supreme Court decided that property owned by aliens in a foreign country is admissible in court. Certain persons in the U.S. receive limited protections, such as prisoners, probationers, parolees, and persons crossing U.S. borders. Corporations, by virtue of being, also have limited rights under the Fourth Amendment (see corporate personhood).\n\nIn the case of Florida v. Jimeno it was found that the evidence found to convict Jimeno, although at first was not admissible, later was found to in fact be admissible since it passed the test of reasonable standards. The defendant consented to a search of his car, and when the officer searched a package and found drugs, it was not said to be in violation because a reasonable person would expect illegal narcotics to be kept in a package or container.\n\nThe Special Operations Division of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration advises DEA agents to follow a process of \"parallel construction\" when launching criminal investigations of Americans based on SOD tips that may be based on warrantless surveillance.\n\nThe exclusionary rule as it has developed in the United States has been long criticized. Judge Benjamin Cardozo, Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals between 1927 and 1932, stated that under the rule, \"The criminal is to go free because the constable has blundered.\" The judge noted that many states had rejected the rule, but suggested that the adoption by the federal courts would affect the practice in the sovereign states.\n\nIn the 1970s, Dallin H. Oaks, Malcolm Wilkey, and others called for the exclusionary rule to be replaced with a comprehensive judicial remedy against all illegal arrests and searches and seizures (e.g., tort remedy). By the 1980s, the exclusionary rule remained controversial and was strongly opposed by President Ronald Reagan. But, some opponents began seeking to have the rule modified, rather than abolished altogether. The case, \"Illinois v. Gates\", before the Supreme Court brought the exclusionary rule for reconsideration. The Supreme Court also considered allowing exceptions for errors made by police in good faith. The Reagan administration also asked Congress to ease the rule. It has been proposed that the exclusionary rule be replaced with restitution to victims of police misconduct.\n\nA major criticism of the Fourth Amendment exclusionary rule is that it allegedly defies the original intent of the Constitution. Yale Law Professor Akhil Amar, for example, has argued that \"nothing in the text, history, or structure of the Fourth Amendment\" supports the rule. Critics like Amar, Oaks and Wilkey point to the fact that the text of the Fourth Amendment does not indicate that illegally seized evidence must be excluded. Some legal historians argue that the Constitution's Framers intended only that victims of unreasonable searches or seizures could file civil lawsuits.\n\nIn 2009, Roger Roots presented evidence that the idea of exclusion can be found in the earliest set of law books published in American history. In 2014, Roots elaborated that certain eighteenth-century British law books and pamphlets which discuss the exclusion of illegally seized evidence circulated widely in the American colonies and were owned by numerous prominent Framing-era lawyers and statesmen. Also in 2014, Professor Richard Re proposed that the Due Process Clause provides an ample basis for the Exclusionary Rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37632", "title": "Fighting Fantasy", "text": "Fighting Fantasy\n\nFighting Fantasy is a series of single-player role-playing gamebooks created by Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone. The first volume in the series was published in paperback by Puffin in 1982.\n\nThe series distinguished itself by mixing Choose Your Own Adventure-style storytelling with a dice-based role-playing element included within the books themselves. The caption on many of the covers claimed each title was an adventure \"in which YOU are the hero!\" The majority of the titles followed a fantasy theme, although science fiction, post-apocalyptic, superhero, and modern horror gamebooks were also published. The popularity of the series led to the creation of merchandise such as action figures, board games, role-playing game systems, magazines, novels, and video games.\n\nPuffin ended the series in 1995, but the rights to the series were eventually purchased by Wizard Books in 2002. Wizard published new editions of the original books and also commissioned six new books over two series, ending in 2012. The rights were then acquired by Scholastic in 2017, which has since published two new titles and reissued ten of the original books with new artwork.\n\nThe main text of each gamebook does not progress in a linear fashion, but rather is divided into a series of numbered sections (usually 400, though a few are shorter or longer). Beginning at the first section, the reader typically must pick one of a series of options provided by the text, each option being detailed at a separate non-sequential numbered section (e.g. the reader may be presented with a choice to turn from Section 1 directly to either Section 83 or Section 180) which in turn provides an outcome for the option chosen. The book continues in this fashion until their character is killed in combat, is stopped by the story, or completes the story. “\"Fighting Fantasy\" gamebooks empower the reader, who felt the anxiety or joy of being fantasy heroes themselves – they lived or died by their decisions. And if at first you don’t succeed, try and try again,” said Ian Livingstone of the format.\n\nThe typical \"Fighting Fantasy\" gamebook tasks players with completing a quest. A successful play usually ends with the player reaching the final numbered section of the book. In some cases this can only be achieved by obtaining various story items (e.g. gems in \"Deathtrap Dungeon\"); many of the titles only feature one path to the solution.\n\nAll \"Fighting Fantasy\" gamebooks are illustrated, including full-page pieces and smaller, repeated images scattered throughout the book as breaks or space fillers between sections. Regular contributors (excluding Scholastic editions) included Les Edwards, Terry Oakes, Russ Nicholson, Leo Hartas, Ian Miller, John Blanche, Martin McKenna, and Iain McCaig.\n\nEach \"Fighting Fantasy\" gamebook requires the reader to create their character, randomly assigning scores to three statistics (Skill, Stamina, and Luck). These, in conjunction with rolling six-sided dice, are used to resolve skill challenges and the combat sections. Some titles use additional statistics or conflict resolution mechanics; most also require the reader to keep an inventory of items.\n\nMost early \"Fighting Fantasy\" titles were set in locations later revealed to be on the same continent called Allansia. Later on a whole world named Titan was developed with subsequent gamebooks set on three main continents - Allansia, Khul and the Old World. Other titles are set in unrelated fantasy, horror, modern day, and sci-fi environments.\n\nIn 1980, Steve Jackson (not to be confused with the US-based game designer of the same name) and Ian Livingstone attended a Games Day, and after meeting with a Penguin Books editor Geraldine Cook decided to create a series of single-player gamebooks. Their first submission, \"The Magic Quest\", was a short adventure intended to demonstrate the style of game. \"The Magic Quest\" was eventually accepted by Penguin, although the authors devoted a further six months to expanding and improving upon their original concept.\n\nThe end result was \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\" and, after several rewrites, the book was accepted and published in 1982 under Penguin's children's imprint, Puffin Books. Following the success of this title, Jackson and Livingstone began writing individually to create additional \"Fighting Fantasy\" gamebooks. In 1983, \"The Citadel of Chaos\" and \"The Forest of Doom\" were published, by Jackson and Livingstone respectively. Four more titles followed: \"Starship Traveller\" (the first title with a science fiction setting), \"City of Thieves\", \"Deathtrap Dungeon\" and \"Island of the Lizard King\". In 1984, a decision was made to hire more writers to continue the series: Steve Jackson (the U.S.-based founder and owner of Steve Jackson Games) was the first, followed by others such as Andrew Chapman, Carl Sargent (aka Keith Martin), Marc Gascoigne, and Peter Darvill-Evans. Jackson and Livingstone, however, continued to be involved and approved all cover and internal illustrations within the UK. \nJackson wrote a self-contained four-part series titled \"Steve Jackson's Sorcery!\" (1983-1985), which combined the use of combat and sorcery, and introduced the continent later known as the Old World. These featured dice images at the bottom of each page, making it possible for the player to randomly flip through the pages for the equivalent of a dice roll (the \"Fighting Fantasy\" titles published by Wizard Books used the same device). \n\nAndrew Chapman and Martin Allen also wrote a two-book, two-player adventure titled \"Clash of the Princes\" (1986). There were also several supplemental books produced that provided more information about the \"Fighting Fantasy\" universe, including a comprehensive bestiary of monsters and a sample adventure. \n\nAlthough the \"Fighting Fantasy\" titles had successful sales the increasing dominance of video games in the 1990s caused a gradual decline. The series was scheduled to conclude with \"Return to Firetop Mountain\" (book 50, Livingstone, 1992), but due to strong sales of that volume, ten more books were scheduled. Nine were published, the series ending with \"Curse of the Mummy\" (1995). \"Bloodbones\", the tenth scheduled title (meant to have been book 60 in the series) was cancelled, but was eventually published by Wizard Books as part of their later reprinting efforts.\n\nIn 2002, Wizard Books acquired the rights to the \"Fighting Fantasy\" series and reprinted many of the original titles in a revised order (initially only the gamebooks actually written by Jackson and/or Livingstone were published), starting with \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\". They also incorporated the \"Sorcery!\" miniseries, as books 9, 11, 13, and 15. A new title, \"Eye of the Dragon\" (by Ian Livingstone) was released in 2005, followed by \"Bloodbones\" in 2006 and \"Howl of the Werewolf\" in 2007. This series used a new logo, the rationale being that the old covers did not suit the modern market.\n\n2007 also marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of \"Fighting Fantasy\", and to commemorate the event Wizard Books published a special hardcover edition of \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\" that used the original 1982 cover image and contained extra material such as the dungeon solution and a commentary on \"Fighting Fantasy\" by Livingstone. This series concluded that same year, ending with 29 books.\n\nWizard Books then began again with a new series of reprints in 2009, again featuring a different cover art style, and again starting with \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\". These books were physically larger than prior releases, being produced in B-format (like the original \"Advanced Fighting Fantasy\" volumes). Three other original titles were added during this run, including \"Blood of the Zombies\" by Ian Livingstone to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary in 2012. This series was 17 books long, although \"Blood of the Zombies\", the last volume released, is unnumbered and packaged differently than the rest.\n\nA new Fighting Fantasy book by Ian Livingstone, \"The Port of Peril\", was published in August 2017 by Scholastic in celebration of the 35th anniversary of the series. Scholastic also released five of the original books. Instead of reusing the original artwork or its style, Scholastic commissioned new artwork. In April 2018 a further six titles were published, including a new adventure by author Charlie Higson, entitled \"The Gates of Death\".\n\n\"Warlock\" magazine (first published by Puffin Books and later Games Workshop) provided additional information on the \"Fighting Fantasy\" universe, and each issue featured a short gamebook adventure, new rules, monsters, reviews and comic strips. It was published from 1983 to 1986 and ran for 13 issues in the UK. It was also published in other countries, and continued in Japan until 1997.\n\nIn 1984, Steve Jackson published a roleplaying game, \"Fighting Fantasy – The Introductory Role-playing Game\". A second game was published in 1989: \"Advanced Fighting Fantasy\" (AFF). AFF was re-released as a new and further expanded edition by Arion Games in 2011.\n\nIn 1985, Steve Jackson wrote a picture gamebook with the title \"Tasks of Tantalon\", in which the player was required to solve a series of puzzles which were presented as large, full-colour pictures containing hidden clues to be located and assembled.\n\n\"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\" (1986) and \"Legend of Zagor\" (1993) were released as board games by Games Workshop and Parker Brothers respectively.\n\nIn 1992, the \"Fighting Fantasy 10th Anniversary Yearbook\" (a diary with articles, trivia and a gamebook) complete with a boxed set of dice and character sheets was published.\n\nIn 2003, Jamie Wallis (not to be confused with James Wallis) adapted eight \"Fighting Fantasy\" and \"Sorcery!\" gamebooks to the \"D20 System\". These adventures were published by Myriador (now defunct, though PDFs are still available for purchase from Greywood Publishing via third-party online retailers). \n\nA comic series based on \"Freeway Fighter\" was published by Titan Books in May 2017.\n\nIn September 2017 a series of audio dramas based on classic Fighting Fantasy titles was launched by FoxYason Productions at Fighting Fantasy Fest 2, starting with \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain: The Hero's Quest\". A boxset of 4 more titles is slated for release during 2018..\n\nSeveral \"Fighting Fantasy\" titles have been released as video games, including seven \"Fighting Fantasy\" titles (\"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\", \"The Citadel of Chaos\", \"The Forest of Doom\", \"Temple of Terror\", \"Seas of Blood\", \"Appointment with F.E.A.R.\" and \"Rebel Planet\") for the Commodore 64, Amstrad, BBC, and Sinclair ZX Spectrum (1984) and \"Deathtrap Dungeon\" for the PC and PlayStation by Eidos Interactive (1998). On August 18, 2011 an adaption of \"Talisman of Death\" was released by UK developer Laughing Jackal for the \"PlayStation Minis\" platform (playable on the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation 3). \nCambridge-based studio Inkle released another interactive version of \"The Shamutanti Hills\" for iOS in May 2013, and has since gone on to release all four parts of Sorcery! on iOS, Android, Windows and Mac.\n\nThe video game \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain: Goblin Scourge Edition\" was released by Tin Man Games for the Nintendo Switch on Sep 13, 2018. \n\nOn December 5, 2006, it was announced that Jackson and Livingstone were planning to release a new series of handheld games based on \"Fighting Fantasy\" for Nintendo DS and Sony's PSP. The first of these, \"\", was released for the DS in the United States on November 25, 2009, and for the Apple iPhone and iPod in early January 2010.\n\nOn February 10, 2011 an Amazon Kindle edition of \"The Warlock of Firetop Mountain\" was launched by UK developer Worldweaver Ltd, for the US market. \"Warlock\" and four other gamebooks were released on iOS by Big Blue Bubble, but were removed from the app store in 2012 when they lost the licence. \n\nAustralian game developers \"Tin Man Games\" have since published several iOS and Android versions of Fighting Fantasy books, including \"Blood of the Zombies\", \"House of Hell\", \"Forest of Doom\", \"Island of the Lizard King\" and \"Starship Traveller\", and an iOS version of the first part of the Sorcery! series was released by Bright Al Ltd in 2010.\n\nInkle's Sorcery! series is available on iOS, Android, Windows and Mac.\n\nThe series sold 20 million copies in the 80s and 90s.\n\n\"Fighting Fantasy\" was ranked 47th in the 1996 reader poll of \"Arcane\" magazine to determine the 50 most popular roleplaying games of all time. The UK magazine's editor Paul Pettengale commented: \"To say that it is basic would be a huge understatement – \"Fighting Fantasy\" has just a couple of stats from which a character is created, and combat is a simple case of rolling six-sided dice, pitching one creature's slats against another. It's fun, quick and easy, which explains its popularity.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39350444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39350444", "title": "First stellation of rhombic dodecahedron", "text": "First stellation of rhombic dodecahedron\n\nIn geometry, the first stellation of the rhombic dodecahedron is a stellation of the rhombic dodecahedron. This polyhedron is sometimes called \"Escher's solid\"; it appears in M. C. Escher's works \"Waterfall\" and in a study for \"Stars\" (although \"Stars\" itself features a different shape, the compound of three octahedra). \nIt has 48 faces, all triangles. It has 26 vertices in total: 6 with degree 8, 8 with degree 6, and 12 with degree 4. It has 72 edges in total, giving an Euler characteristic of 26 + 48 − 72 = +2. Its vertices are identical to those of the cuboctahedron. It can be constructed by taking a square pyramid of base length 2 and height 1, with the base centered at the origin and the apex on the Z-axis, and then rotating it so that the apex lies on each of the 6 half-axes in turn. The union of the six square pyramids gives the stellated rhombic dodecahedron.\n\nIt can tessellate space in the stellated rhombic dodecahedral honeycomb. Six stellated rhombic dodecahedra meet at each vertex. This honeycomb is cell-transitive, edge-transitive and vertex-transitive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54397689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54397689", "title": "Flowers in a Wan-Li Vase", "text": "Flowers in a Wan-Li Vase\n\nFlowers in a Wan-Li Vase is a circa 1620s floral painting by Balthasar van der Ast in the collection of the Suermondt-Ludwig-Museum.\n\nBalthasar van der Ast was a respected flower painter from Middelburg, active in Utrecht, and considered a member of the \"Bosschaert dynasty\" and one of the great flower painters of his time. Little is known about Van der Ast's workshop and whether or not he worked on commission. Even less is known of the early provenance of his paintings. Besides what can be learned from his surviving paintings, archival evidence indicates he was active in Utrecht at the same time as Roelant Savery.\n\nThe painting shows flowers of various seasons accompanied by various \"fauna\" in an arranged bouquet on a stone slab, often in an unusual vase, and in this case, a Chinese export porcelain vessel called a \"Wan-Li vase\". This motief was not his invention and was already quite common among his colleagues, and would remain popular for over a century, with Jan van Huysum and Rachel Ruysch still enjoying high prices for their flower bouquets crawling with bugs and reptiles such as this one.\n\nThe flaming red and gold tulip at the top is a variety quite common in Dutch gardens today, but is actually suffering from the tulip breaking virus that gives it that \"flaming\" striped effect. This painting is symbolic of the popular appreciation of tulips that would reach amazing heights in the so-called Tulip Mania that was yet to come.\n\nBesides the tulip, the work shows the following flower species: Rosa gallica, Anemone hepatica, Aquilegia, Tagetes, Cyclamen, lacerta agilis, Cynthia cardui, a fly, a dragonfly, and a grasshopper (on the vase).\n\nThis painting was stored for safe-keeping during WWII in the Albrechtsburg in Meissen, from whence it was found and taken by marauding Ukrainian troops in 1945. Somehow it ended up in the possession of the German Alice Siano who later emigrated to Canada in 1951 (when she married, she became Alice Tittel) with twelve paintings, presumably eight of which were from the Meissen storage depot, and this one appeared on the art market in 1954, where it was purchased by the Dutch art collector Sidney J. van den Bergh who sold it to a New York collector in 1972. In 1991 it was part of a visiting exhibition \"Great Dutch Masters from America\" which referred to it as being very similar to the lost Suermondt Museum piece. It has now been purchased back and returned to the museum after 70 years. The museum had earlier recovered \"Flowers in a Glass Vase\" by Nicolaes Verendael, which had also been sold by Alice Tittel to a New York collector. About 200 paintings from the museum's collection were stolen in 1945. It is unknown how many are still missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "8951253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8951253", "title": "Frankfurt cases", "text": "Frankfurt cases\n\nFrankfurt cases (also known as Frankfurt counterexamples or Frankfurt-style cases) were presented by philosopher Harry Frankfurt in 1969 as counterexamples to the principle of alternate possibilities (PAP), which holds that an agent is morally responsible for an action only if that person could have done otherwise.\n\nThe principle of alternate possibilities (PAP) forms part of an influential argument for the incompatibility of responsibility and causal determinism, often called the \"core argument\" for incompatibilism. It was formulated by Libertarian Robert Kane. This argument is detailed below:\n\n(1) PAP: An agent is responsible for an action only if said agent could have done otherwise.\n\n(2) An agent could have done otherwise only if causal determinism is false.\n\n(3) Therefore, an agent is responsible for an action only if causal determinism is false.\n\nTraditionally, compatibilists (defenders of the compatibility of free will and determinism, like A. J. Ayer, Walter Terence Stace, and Daniel Dennett) reject premise two, arguing that, properly understood, free will is not incompatible with determinism. According to the traditional compatibilist analysis of free will, an agent is free to do otherwise when he would have done otherwise had he wanted to do otherwise. Agents may possess free will, according to the conditional analysis, even if determinism is true.\n\nFrom the PAP definition \"a person is morally responsible for what he has done only if he could have done otherwise\", Frankfurt infers that a person is not morally responsible for what he has done if he could not have done otherwise – a point with which he takes issue: our theoretical ability to do otherwise, he says, does not necessarily make it \"possible\" for us to do otherwise.\n\nFrankfurt's examples are significant because they suggest an alternative way to defend the compatibility of moral responsibility and determinism, in particular by rejecting the first premise of the argument. According to this view, responsibility is compatible with determinism because responsibility does not require the freedom to do otherwise.\n\nFrankfurt's examples involve agents who are intuitively responsible for their behavior even though they lack the freedom to act otherwise. Here is a typical case:\n\nIf Frankfurt is correct in suggesting both that Donald is morally responsible for voting Democratic and that he is not free to do otherwise, moral responsibility, in general, does not require that an agent have the freedom to do otherwise (that is, the principle of alternate possibilities is false). Thus, even if causal determinism is true, and even if determinism removes the freedom to do otherwise, there is no reason to doubt that people can still be morally responsible for their behavior.\n\nHaving presented his counter argument against the principle of alternate possibilities, Frankfurt suggests that it be revised to take into account the fallacy of the notion that coercion precludes an agent from moral responsibility. It must be \"only because\" of coercion that the agent acts as he does. The best definition, by his reckoning, is this: \"[A] person is not morally responsible for what he has done if he did it \"only because\" he could not have done otherwise.\"\n\nOne of the first objections raised by opponents of the Frankfurt-style cases is the two-horned dilemma. This objection was most notably raised by philosophers such as Widerker, Ginet, and Kane. The two-horned dilemma focuses on the connection between the agent's inclination and the agent's decision. This connection can be either deterministic or indeterministic.\n\nIf the connection between the agent's inclination and the agent's decision is deterministic, then proponents of the Frankfurt-style cases are charged with begging the question. A deterministic connection begs the question because proponents of Frankfurt-style cases are assuming the very thing that is being debated, that moral responsibility does not require alternate possibilities or the ability to do otherwise. Suppose the agent's inclination is causally sufficient for bringing about the agent's decision. This would mean that the agent was determined to make that decision prior to any kind of decision-making. Thus, the agent did not freely come to the decision for reasons of her own. Opponents of the Frankfurt-style cases would immediately contend that the agent is not morally responsible. This is because they are operating from the get-go that moral responsibility requires free will. Therefore, if the Frankfurt-style cases are operating within a metaphysically deterministic framework, then proponents of Frankfurt-style cases cannot reasonably expect their opponents to be convinced. Furthermore, Frankfurt-style cases would be begging the question since they are deriving moral responsibility from a completely deterministic scenario. \n\nOn the other hand, if the connection between the agent's inclination and the agent's decision is indeterministic, then opponents of the Frankfurt-style cases argue that the agent has the ability to do otherwise. This is problematic for proponents of the Frankfurt-style cases because they are supposed to show a situation where an agent is morally responsible her decision and yet is unable to truly do otherwise. Suppose the agent's inclination and the agent's decision is indeterministic. This means that the agent's inclination is not necessarily indicative of what the agent's decision will be. Thus, it is possible for the agent to show the correct inclination, evade the computer device, but then make the \"wrong\" decision. Even if the computer device kicks in after the \"wrong decision,\" the agent still encountered the ability to do otherwise. This kind of Frankfurt-style case would fail to present a situation where an agent is morally responsible while lacking alternate possibilities. \n\nThere have been a number of responses to the two-horned dilemma. One response has been to argue that a deterministic connection does not actually beg the question. Fischer has argued for this response by arguing that the Frankfurt-style case cannot stand alone, but must be taken in conjunction with other arguments. These other arguments are supposed to show that causal determinism in and of itself and apart from ruling out alternate possibilities does not threaten moral responsibility. \n\nA second response is to revise the Frankfurt-style cases. This revision consist in creating a case with an explicit indeterministic connection where the agent is still morally responsible without any alternate possibilities. These kind of Frankfurt-style cases do it by incorporating buffer zones that act to eliminate alternate possibilities.\n\nThe success of these responses are still being debated. It remains to be seen whether the Frankfurt style cases are successfully in showing what Harry Frankfurt intended them to show.\n\nMichael Otsuka provides a more specific answer to proposed problems with Frankfurt's counterexamples. In his article, Otsuka says,\n\"my strategy is to propose that the Principle of Alternate Possibilities be rejected in favor of a different incompatibilist principle,\" that is, different from Frankfurt's, \"that I call the 'Principle of Avoidable Blame'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20753314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20753314", "title": "Freedom House (Roxbury, Massachusetts)", "text": "Freedom House (Roxbury, Massachusetts)\n\nFreedom House is a nonprofit community-based organization in Roxbury, Massachusetts (a neighborhood of Boston). Freedom House is located in an area sometimes referred to as Grove Hall that lies along Blue Hill Ave. at the border between the Roxbury and Dorchester neighborhoods of Boston. Although it was historically identified with Roxbury, Freedom House currently refers to itself as being located either in Dorchester or in Grove Hall.\n\nThe mission of Freedom House is to promote economic self-sufficiency and social justice for residents in historically underserved neighborhoods through targeted educational development, increased civic and political engagement and progressive cultural advocacy.\n\nFreedom House was founded in 1949 as a center of civil rights and advocacy for Boston's African American community. The founders were the social workers (and married couple) Otto P. Snowden and Muriel S. Snowden. The initial goal of Freedom House was to centralize community activism in the fight for neighborhood improvement, good schools, and harmony among racial, ethnic, and religious groups in Roxbury (a neighborhood of Boston), Massachusetts. Criticized in the 1960s by black militants for taking a \"self-help\" approach to racial equality, Freedom House re-examined its mission, and went on to play an increasingly critical role in the struggle for civil rights in Boston, especially during the period of desegregation of Boston's public schools.\n\nFreedom House's original location was at 151 Humboldt Street in Roxbury. In 1952, it moved to 14 Crawford Street on the Grove Hall section of Roxbury. On the night of January 31, 1960, a fire destroyed the Crawford Street facility. A rebuilding campaign ensued, and Boston Mayor John F. Collins was the first to \"buy a brick\" to help in this effort. The rebuilt facility opened in 1961 and remains the current home of the organization.\n\nIn 1984, Muriel and Otto Snowden retired as co-directors. A number of directors have served since then; the Executive Director is currently the Snowden's daughter, Gail Snowden.\n\nIn 1996, Freedom House considered merging with other community organizations, although in the end it decided not to do so.\n\nThe initial focus of the organization was on urban renewal; neighborhood improvement programs designed to protect Upper Roxbury from urban blight began in 1949 when Freedom House helped to organize neighborhood clean-up projects and playground construction. Concerned over the escalating number of bars in the neighborhood, Freedom House led the community in an effort to reduce the number of new and renewed applications for liquor licenses.\n\nEarly programming also focused on strengthening relations between the African American and Jewish residents of Upper Roxbury. An interracial preschool, one of few in the city, was established and Freedom House participated in a Black-Jewish Roundtable fostering business ties and friendships between black and Jewish entrepreneurs.\n\nIn the area of education, Freedom House administered Project Reach, supported by a private donation, which gave scholarship funds for minority students to go to college. Freedom House also provided scholarship counseling. A travel/study program provided scholarships for high school students to study in Europe for the summer. In the years before court-ordered desegregation, Freedom House also raised money to support Operation Exodus, a voluntary desegregation project that bused predominantly African American students from overcrowded schools in Roxbury and Dorchester to predominantly white, underenrolled schools in other parts of Boston. In 1966, Operation Exodus discontinued busing children; the Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity (METCO) began busing Boston children between the city and suburban schools on a voluntary basis. Exodus bused children within the City of Boston while METCO was a separate program of urban and suburban exchange.\n\nSchool desegregation was court-ordered in Boston in 1974, and in that year, the Freedom House Institute on Schools and Education was established. The Institute began as a means of information dissemination to African-American families, as well as to ensure the safety of school children being bused to neighborhoods attempting to block the desegregation order. The Institute grew to become a locus of community action, offering tutoring and teacher training, and providing a forum for communication between families and city administrators.\n\nIn the area of employment, Freedom House held job fairs, including Boston's first job fair for minorities, and promoted affirmative action. They raised money for college scholarships for black students and for study programs in Africa. They even established a credit union.\n\nFreedom House has often acted as a forum and meeting place for the community, in times of grief as well as in times of celebration. The Center has held galas, fashion shows and tea parties to raise money for causes that it supported, celebrated the anniversaries and birthdays of notables like Edward Brooke, an African-American U.S. Senator from Massachusetts, and held Christmas and Halloween parties for children. More than 500 residents attended a mass meeting at Freedom House after the murder of 16-year-old Daniela Saunders in 1963.\n\nCurrently, Freedom House programs focus on education, technology, and leadership development. Freedom House provides tutoring for the MCAS (Mass. school achievement tests), access to a computer lab, and technology training. Freedom House also works with other organizations and the City of Boston to lower the dropout rate in Boston's high schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "67918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67918", "title": "Genital modification and mutilation", "text": "Genital modification and mutilation\n\nThe terms genital modification and genital mutilation can refer to permanent or temporary changes to human sex organs. Some forms of genital alteration are performed on adults with their informed consent at their own behest, usually for aesthetic reasons or to enhance stimulation. However, other forms are performed on people who do not give informed consent, including infants or children. Any of these procedures may be considered modifications or mutilations in different cultural contexts and by different groups of people.\n\nMany types of genital modification are performed at the behest of the individual, for personal, sexual, aesthetic or cultural reasons. Penile subincision, or splitting of the underside of the penis, is widespread in the traditional cultures of Indigenous Australians. This procedure has taken root in Western body modification culture, the modern primitives. Meatotomy is a form that involves splitting of the glans penis alone, while bisection is a more extreme form that splits the penis entirely in half.\n\nGenital piercings and genital tattooing may be performed for aesthetic reasons, but piercings have the benefit of increasing sexual pleasure for the pierced individual or their sex partners.\n\nSimilarly, Pearling involves surgical insertion of small, inert spheres under the skin along the shaft of the penis for the purpose of providing sexual stimulation to the walls of the vagina. Similar to tattooing, genital scarification is primarily done for aesthetic reasons by adding cosmetic scars to the skin. The genital decoration by scars is an ancient tradition in many cultures, both for men and women. The Hanabira-style (Jap. for petal) is a special form of scarification originating in Japan, it involves the decoration of the mons pubis.\n\nClitoris enlargement may be achieved temporarily through the use of a clitoral pump, or it may be achieved permanently through the application or injection of testosterone. Penis enlargement is a term for various techniques used to attempt to increase the size of the penis, though the safety and efficacy of these techniques are debated.\n\nPeople who are transgender or intersex may undergo sex reassignment surgery in order to modify their bodies to match their gender identity. Not all transgender people elect to have these surgeries, but those who do usually see an improvement in their sexual lives as well as their mental and emotional well-being. Some of the surgical procedures are breast augmentation and vaginoplasty (creation of a vagina) for trans women and mastectomy (breast removal), metoidioplasty (elongation of the clitoris), and phalloplasty (creation of a penis) for trans men. Trans women may also benefit from hair removal and facial feminization surgery, while some trans men may have liposuction to remove fat deposits around their hips and thighs.\n\nHijra, a third gender found in the Indian subcontinent, may opt to undergo castration.\n\nIntersex children and children with ambiguous genitalia may be subjected to surgeries to \"normalize\" the appearance of their genitalia. These surgeries are usually performed for cosmetic benefit rather than for therapeutic reasons. Most surgeries involving children with ambiguous genitalia are sexually damaging and may render them infertile. For example, in cases involving male children with micropenis, doctors may recommend the child be reassigned as female. The Intersex Society of North America objects to elective surgeries performed on people without their informed consent on grounds that such surgeries subject patients to unnecessary harm and risk.\n\nIn some cases, a child's gender may be reassigned due to genital injury. There have been at least seven cases of healthy male infants being reassigned as female due to circumcision damaging their penises beyond repair, including the late David Reimer (born Bruce Reimer, later Brenda Reimer), who was the subject of John Money's John/Joan case; an unnamed American child, who was awarded $750,000 by Judge Walter McGovern of the Federal District Court after a military doctor was found guilty of medical malpractice in 1975; and an unnamed child who was circumcised at Northside Hospital, who received an undisclosed amount of money from the hospital.\n\nIn India, Andhra Pradesh a 75 year old surgeon working at the kurnool government hospital in kadappa named as naganna was arrested by the CB-CID for conducting forced sex change surgeries on kidnapped victims for nearly a decade by using a nationwide network of hijras, transgenders.\n\nIf the genitals become diseased, as in the case of cancer, sometimes the diseased areas are surgically removed. Females may undergo vaginectomy or vulvectomy (to the vagina and vulva, respectively), while males may undergo penectomy or orchiectomy (removal of the penis and testicles, respectively). Reconstructive surgery may be performed to restore what was lost, often with techniques similar to those used in sex reassignment surgery.\n\nDuring childbirth, an episiotomy (cutting part of the tissue between the vagina and the anus) is sometimes performed to increase the amount of space through which the baby may emerge. Advocates of natural childbirth and unassisted birth state that this intervention is often performed without medical necessity, with significant damage to the person giving birth.\n\nHymenotomy is the surgical perforation of an imperforate hymen. It may be performed to allow menstruation to occur. An adult individual may opt for increasing the size of her hymenal opening, or removal of the hymen altogether, to facilitate sexual penetration of her vagina.\n\nThe world's first penis reduction surgery was performed in 2015, on a 17-year-old boy who had an American football-shaped penis as a result of recurrent priapism.\n\nA person may engage in self-inflicted genital injury or mutilation such as castration, penectomy, or clitoridectomy. The motivation behind such actions vary widely; it may be done due to skoptic syndrome, personal crisis related to gender identity, mental illness, self-mutilation, body dysmorphia, or social reasons.\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting (FGC), female circumcision, or female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C), refers to \"all procedures involving partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other surgery of the female genital organs whether for cultural, religious or other non-therapeutic reasons.\" It is not the same as the procedures used in gender reassignment surgery or the genital modification of intersex persons. It is practised in several parts of the world, but the practice is concentrated more heavily in Africa, parts of the Middle East, and some other parts of Asia. Over 125 million women and girls have experienced FGM in the 29 countries in which it is concentrated. Over eight million have been infibulated, a practice found largely in Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia and Sudan. Infibulation, the most extreme form of FGM (known as Type III), consists of the removal of the inner and outer labia and closure of the vulva, while a small hole is left for the passage of urine and menstrual blood; afterwards the vagina will be opened after the wedding for sexual intercourse and childbirth (see episiotomy). In the past several decades, efforts have been made by global health organizations, such as the WHO, to end the practice. FGM is condemned by international human rights instruments. The Istanbul Convention prohibits FGM (Article 38). FGM is also considered a form a violence against women by the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women which was adopted by the United Nations in 1993; according to which: \"Article Two: Violence against women shall be understood to encompass, but not be limited to, the following: (a) Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring in the family, including [...] female genital mutilation [...]\". However, because of its importance in traditional life, it continues to be practised in many societies.\n\nHymenorrhaphy refers to the practice of thickening the hymen, or, in some cases, implanting a capsule of red liquid within the newly created vaginal tissue. This new hymen is created to cause physical resistance, blood, or the appearance of blood, at the time that the individual's new husband inserts his penis into her vagina. This is done in cultures where a high value is placed on female virginity at the time of marriage. In these cultures, a woman may be punished, perhaps violently, if the community leaders deem that she was not virginal at the time of consummation of her marriage. Individuals who are victims of rape, who were virginal at the time of their rape, may elect for hymenorrhaphy.\n\nLabia stretching is the act of elongating the \"labia minora\" through manual manipulation (pulling) or physical equipment (such as weights). It is a familial cultural practice in Rwanda, common in Sub-Saharan Africa, and a body modification practice elsewhere. It is performed for sexual enhancement of both partners, aesthetics, symmetry and gratification.\n\nCosmetic surgery of female genitalia, known as \"elective genitoplasty\", has become pejoratively known as \"″designer vagina″\". In May 2007, an article published in the \"British Medical Journal\" strongly criticised this craze, citing its popularity being rooted in commercial and media influences. Similar concerns have been expressed in Australia.\n\nSome women undergo vaginoplasty or labiaplasty procedures to alter the shape of their vulvas to meet personal or societal aesthetic standards. The surgery itself is controversial, and critics refer to the procedures as \"designer vagina\".\n\nIn the article Designer Vaginas by Simone Weil Davis, she talks about the modification of woman's vagina and the outside influences women are pressured with, which can cause them to feel shame towards their labia minora. She states that the media, such as pornography, creates an unhealthy view of what a \"good looking vagina\" is and how women feel that their privates are inferior and are therefore pressured to act upon that mindset. These insecurities are forced upon women by their partners and other women as well. Also leading to a surge of these types of procedures is increased interest in non-surgical genital alterations, such as Brazilian waxing, that make the vagina more visible to judgment. The incentive to participate in labia- and vaginoplasty may also come about in an effort to manage women's physical attributes and their sexual behavior, treating their vagina as something needing to be managed or controlled and ultimately deemed \"acceptable\".\n\nClitoral hood reduction is a form of hoodplasty. When performed with the consent of the adult individual, it can be considered an elective plastic surgery procedure for reducing the size and the area of the clitoral hood (prepuce) in order to further expose the clitoral glans of the clitoris; the therapeutic goal is thought to improve the sexual functioning of the woman, and the aesthetic appeal of her vulva. The reduction of the clitoral prepuce tissues usually is a sub-ordinate surgery within a labiaplasty procedure for reducing the labia minora; and occasionally within a vaginoplasty procedure. When these procedures are performed on individuals without their consent, they are considered a form of female genital mutilation.\n\nCastration in the genital modification and mutilation context is the removal of the testicles. Sometimes the term (meaning \"cutting\") is also used to refer to penis removal, but that is less common. Castration has been performed in many cultures throughout history, but is now rare. In the 21st century, castration has been reported among slave boys in South Asia. In addition the Czech Republic performs surgical castration on some male sex offenders. It should not be confused with chemical castration.\n\nThe removal of one testicle (sometimes referred to as \"unilateral castration\") is usually done in the modern world only for medical reasons.\n\nCircumcision is the surgical removal of part or all of the foreskin from the penis. It is usually performed for religious, cultural or medical reasons and leaves some or all of the glans permanently exposed. Jews and many Americans typically have their infants circumcised during the neonatal period, while Filipinos, most Muslims and African tribes such as the Maasai and Xhosa circumcise in teenage years or childhood as an initiation into adulthood.\n\nIn modern medicine, circumcision may be used as treatment for severe phimosis or recurrent balanitis. Advocacy is often centered on preventive medicine, while opposition is often centered on human rights (particularly the bodily integrity of the infant when circumcision is performed in the neonatal period) and the potentially harmful side effects of the procedure. Neonatal circumcision is generally safe when done by an experienced practitioner, with complications being rare, though death has been reported in some cases.\n\nThe World Health Organization estimates that one-third of the world's men are circumcised;the majority of circumcised male population is located in Muslim countries and in the United States, although there are various explanations for why the infant circumcision rate in the US is different from comparable countries. \n\nIn 2012 the American Academy of Pediatrics stated that health benefits of non-therapeutic circumcision aren't great enough to recommend it for every newborn, and that the benefits outweigh the risks, so that the procedure may be done for families who choose it.\n\nForeskin restoration is the partial recreation of the foreskin after its removal by circumcision. Surgical restoration involves grafting skin taken from the scrotum onto a portion of the penile shaft. Nonsurgical methods involve tissue expansion by stretching the penile skin forward over the glans penis with the aid of tension. Nonsurgical restoration is the preferred method as it is less costly and typically yields better results than surgical restoration. A foreskin restoration device may be of help to men pursuing nonsurgical foreskin restoration. While restoration cannot recreate the nerves or tissues lost to circumcision, it can recreate the appearance and some of the function of a natural foreskin.\n\nInfibulation literally means to close with a clasp or a pin. The word is used to include suturing of the foreskin over the head of the penis.\n\nInfibulation is seen in rock art in Southern Africa.\n\nEarly Greek infibulation consisted of piercing the foreskin and applying a gold, silver or bronze ring (\"annulus\"), a metal clasp (\"fibula\") or pin. This was done for aesthetic reasons. The Greeks also used a nonsurgical form of infibulation by wearing a kynodesme. Infibulation in Romano-Greek culture is attested as early as Aulus Cornelius Celcus (25 BC-50 AD) and as late as Oribasisus (325-405 AD).\n\nIn the Victorian era, both in the UK and in the United States, routine infibulation was second only to circumcision in the \"war on masturbation\" and was used in orphanages and mental institutions, supported by leading physicians.\n\nIn modern times, male infibulation may be performed for personal preferences or as part of BDSM.\n\nAlso known as \"total castration\" or \"nullification\", emasculation is the combination of castration and penectomy.\n\nDue to the high risk of death from bleeding and infection, it was often considered a punishment equivalent to a death sentence. It was part of the eunuch-making of the Chinese court, and it was widespread in the Arab slave trade. A castrated slave was worth more, and this offset the losses from death.\n\nNullification or \"nullo\" is the term used by the modern body modification community.\n\nIn modern day South Asia, some members of Hijra communities reportedly undergo emasculation. It is called \"nirwaan\" and seen as a rite of passage.\n\nPearling or genital beading is a form of body modification, the practice of permanently inserting small beads made of various materials beneath the skin of the genitals—of the labia, or of the shaft or foreskin of the penis. As well as being an aesthetic practice, this is usually intended to enhance the sexual pleasure of partners during vaginal or anal intercourse.\n\nPenectomy involves the partial or total amputation of penis. Sometimes, the removal of the entire penis was done in conjunction with castration, or incorrectly referred to as castration. Removing the penis was often performed on eunuchs and high ranking men who would frequently be in contact with women, such as those belonging to a harem. The Hijra of India may remove their penis as an expression of their gender identity. In the medical field, removal of the penis may be performed for reasons of gangrene or cancer. Penis removal may occur through unintentional genital injury.\n\nIn the ulwaluko circumcision ceremony, which is performed by spear, accidental penectomy is a serious risk.\n\nPenis removal for purposes of assault or revenge is overwhelmingly a female-on-male crime, particularly in Thailand. Lorena Bobbit infamously removed her husband's penis in 1993. In some circumstances it may be possible to reattach the penis.\n\nPenile subincision is a form of genital modification involves a urethrotomy and vertically slitting the underside of the penis from the meatus towards to the base. It is performed by people of many cultures, such as the Indigenous Australians, the Arrente, the Luritja, the Samburu, the Samoans, and the Native Hawaiians. It may also be performed for personal preference. Penile subincision may leave a man with an increased risk of sexually transmitted diseases, issues with fertility (due to lack of control over what direction the sperm goes after ejaculation), and may require a man to sit down while urinating. When the surgery is not performed in a hospital or by a licensed medical professional, complications such as infection, exsanguination, or permanent damage are major concerns.\n\nA dorsal slit (also known as superincision) is an incision made along the upper length of the foreskin with the intention to expose the glans penis without removing skin or tissue.\n\nThe practice appears to have occurred in Ancient Egypt, though not commonly: \nIt may be performed as a part of traditional customs, such as those in the Pacific Islands and the Philippines. In the medical field, it may be performed for as an alternative to circumcision when circumcision is undesired or impractical. It remains a rare surgery and practice overall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40576276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40576276", "title": "Government Security Classifications Policy", "text": "Government Security Classifications Policy\n\nThe Government Security Classifications Policy (GSCP) is a new system for classifying sensitive government data in the United Kingdom.\n\nHistorically, the Government Protective Marking Scheme was used by government bodies in the UK; it divides data into UNCLASSIFIED, PROTECT, RESTRICTED, CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET and TOP SECRET. This system was designed for paper-based records; it is not easily adapted to modern government work and is not widely understood.\n\nThe GSCP uses three levels of classification: OFFICIAL, SECRET and TOP SECRET. This is simpler than the old model and there is no direct relationship between the old and new classifications. \"Unclassified\" is deliberately omitted from the new model. Government bodies are not expected to automatically remark existing data, so there may be cases where organisations working under the new system still handle some data marked according to the old system.\n\nInformation Asset Owners continue to be responsible for information. The new policy does not specify particular IT security requirements - IT systems should be built and used in accordance with existing guidance from CESG.\n\nEverybody who works with government - including contractors and suppliers - is responsible for protecting information they work with, regardless of whether it has a protective marking.\n\nAggregation does not automatically trigger an increase in protective marking. For instance, a database with thousands of records which are individually OFFICIAL should not be relabeled as a SECRET database. Instead, information owners are expected to make decisions about controls based on a risk assessment, and should consider what the aggregated information is, who needs to access it, and how.\n\nOFFICIAL includes most public-sector data, including a wide range of information on day-to-day government business. It is not subject to any special risks. Personal data would usually be OFFICIAL. The data should be protected by controls based on commercial best practice instead of expensive, difficult specialist technology and bureaucracy. There is no requirement to mark every document as \"OFFICIAL\" - it is understood that this is the default for government documents.\n\nOrganisations may add \"descriptors\" to highlight particular types of official data, for instance commercially sensitive information about contracts, or diplomatic data which should not be seen by locally hired embassy staff. These descriptors do not automatically require special controls. \"OFFICIAL\" will usually include the kinds of data that were previously UNCLASSIFIED, RESTRICTED, or CONFIDENTIAL; but this may vary.\n\nThe threat model for OFFICIAL data is similar to typical large private-sector organisations; it anticipates that individual hackers, pressure groups, criminals, and investigative journalists might attempt to get information. The threat model does not guarantee protection against very persistent and skilled attacks, for instance by organised crime groups or by foreign governments; these are possible, but normal controls would make them more difficult, and much stronger controls would be disproportionate. People with routine access to OFFICIAL information should be subject to BPSS screening.\n\nOFFICIAL may include data which is subject to separate regulatory requirements, such as the Data Protection Act (personal data) or PCI DSS (card payments).\n\nOFFICIAL-SENSITIVE is an additional caveat for OFFICIAL data where it is particularly important to enforce need to know rules. OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE documents should be marked, but they are not necessarily tracked.\n\n\"Very sensitive information\", which might (for example) seriously harm national defense or crime investigations. Data should only be marked as SECRET if the Senior Information Risk Owner (which is a board level position in an organisation) agrees that it is high-impact \"and\" that the data must be protected against very capable attackers. Although some specialist technology might be used to protect the data, there is still strong emphasis on reuse of commercial security tools.\n\nSECRET is a big step up from OFFICIAL; government bodies are warned against being overcautious and applying much stricter rules when OFFICIAL would be sufficient.\n\nPeople with routine access to SECRET information should usually have SC clearance. SECRET data may often be exempt from FOIA disclosure.\n\nData with exceptionally high impact levels; compromise would have very serious impacts - for instance, many deaths. This requires an extremely high level of protection, and controls are expected to be similar to those used on existing \"Top Secret\" data, including CESG-approved products. Very little risk can be tolerated in TOP SECRET, although no activity is completely risk-free.\n\nPeople with routine access to TOP SECRET information should usually have DV clearance. TOP SECRET information is assumed to be exempt from FOIA disclosure. Disclosure of such information is assumed to be above the threshold for Official Secrets Act prosecution.\n\nSpecial handling instructions are additional markings which used in conjunction with a classification marking to indicate the nature or source of its content, limit access to designated groups, and / or to signify the need for enhanced handling measures. In addition to a paragraph near the start of the document special handling instructions include Descriptors, Codewords, Prefixes and national caveats.\n\nA DESCRIPTOR is used with the security classification to identify certain categories of sensitive information and indicates the need for common sense precautions to limit access. The normal descriptors are 'COMMERCIAL’, 'LOCSEN’ and 'PERSONAL’.\n\nA Codeword is a single word expressed in CAPITAL letters that follows the security classification to providing security cover for a particular asset or event. They are usually only applied to SECRET and TOP SECRET assets.\n\nThe UK prefix is added to the security classification of all assets sent to foreign governments or international organisations. This prefix designates the UK as the originating country and that the British Government should be consulted before any possible disclosure.\n\nNational caveats follow the security classification. Unless explicitly named, information bearing a national caveat is not sent to foreign governments, overseas contractors, international organisations or released to any foreign nationals. Example\nWith the exception of British Embassies and Diplomatic Missions or Service units or establishments, assets bearing the UK EYES ONLY national caveat are not sent overseas.\n\nAs per the previous GPMS model, the choice of classification relates only to the data's confidentiality.\nUnlike the old model it replaces however, the GSCP does not consider the consequence of a compromise as the primary factor, but instead is based on the capability and motivation of potential threat actors (attackers) and the acceptability of that risk to the business.\n\nWhere a capable and motivated attacker such as a Foreign Intelligence Service, or Serious and Organised Crime are considered to be in scope of the data to be classified, the business must implicitly accept this risk to classify the data as OFFICIAL.\nIf they do not or cannot accept this risk they must at least initially consider the data to be SECRET, though it may be reduced to OFFICIAL or increased to TOP SECRET later when the consequences of a compromise are also considered.\n\nThe implication of this approach and the binary nature of determining if a risk from capable and motivated attackers is acceptable or not, means that data cannot easily progress through the GSCP in a linear fashion as it did through GPMS. \n\nThis is a complexity often lost on Information Asset Owners previously used to the strictly hierarchical tiered rising structure of GPMS (e.g. UNCLASSIFIED, PROTECT, RESTRICTED, CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET, TOP SECRET).\n\nBy contrast GSCP data starts either with an OFFICIAL OR SECRET classification depending on the nature of threat and its acceptability to the business, and thereafter moves up or down accordingly based on consequence of compromise.\n\nOFFICIAL data may therefore rise to TOP SECRET, but cannot be SECRET unless the risk previously accepted for a capable attacker is revised.\n\nSECRET data may be reduced to OFFICIAL where no serious consequences can be identified from a potential breach, or SECRET can also rise to TOP SECRET if serious consequences could arise. \n\nImpact levels also consider integrity and availability, but CESG's system of Business Impact Levels (BIL) is under review too and in most practical contexts have now fallen into disuse. \n\nIt is therefore no longer strictly the case that the greater the consequences if the data confidentiality were to be compromised, the higher the classification, since data with a high impact (including material which could result in threat to life) may still be classified as OFFICIAL if the relevant business owner believes it is not necessary to protect this from an attacker who has the capabilities of a Foreign Intelligence Service or Serious and Organised Crime.\n\nConversely some data with much lower consequences (for example ongoing Police investigations into a criminal group, or intelligence information relating to possible prosecutions) but where the business will not accept compromise from such an attacker could be classified as SECRET.\n\nGuidance issued in April 2014 at the implementation of the GSCP and still available on Gov.UK sources suggested that UK Government information systems would continue to be accredited much as before, normally using CESG Information Assurance Standard 1 & 2. \nThis has however been progressively discarded through GDS and NCSC blog statements since May 2014 and the IS1 & 2 standard itself is no longer maintained or mandated.\nAccreditation has also been largely replaced by alternative models of assurance aligned to various commercial practices. \n\nThe NAO report \"Protecting Information across Government\" (Sep 2016) was somewhat critical of the move to this model and the adoption of GSCP overall \n\nExisting published guidance continues to suggest that storage media which hold UK government data should still be destroyed or purged according to HMG IA Policy No. 5, however terminology in this guidance and other material has not been updated fully to reflect the changes from GPMS protective markings to GSCP classifications and as such its value is now arguably somewhat reduced as a published standard.\n\nHigher classifications still tend to require stricter personnel vetting.\n\nThe Government Security Classifications Policy was completed and published in December 2012; additional guidance and supporting processes were developed over time.\n\nGovernment bodies (and the armed forces) were expected to start using the GSCP in April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22980399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22980399", "title": "Head injury criterion", "text": "Head injury criterion\n\nThe Head Injury Criterion (HIC) is a measure of the likelihood of head injury arising from an impact. The HIC can be used to assess safety related to vehicles, personal protective gear, and sport equipment. \n\nNormally the variable is derived from the measurements of an accelerometer mounted at the center of mass of a crash test dummy’s head, when the dummy is exposed to crash forces.\n\nIt is defined as:\nformula_1 \nwhere \"t\" and \"t\" are the initial and final times (in seconds) chosen to maximize HIC, and acceleration \"a\" is measured in \"g\"s (standard gravity acceleration). The time duration, \"t\" – \"t\", is limited to a maximum value of 36 ms, usually 15 ms.\n\nThis means that the HIC includes the effects of head acceleration and the duration of the acceleration. Large accelerations may be tolerated for very short times.\n\nAt a HIC of 1000, there is an 18% probability of a severe head injury, a 55% probability of a serious injury and a 90% probability of a moderate head injury to the average adult.\n\nHIC is used to determine the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) star rating for automobile safety and to determine ratings given by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.\n\nAccording to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, head injury risk is evaluated mainly on the basis of head injury criterion. A value of 700 is the maximum allowed under the provisions of the U.S. advanced airbag regulation (NHTSA, 2000) and is the maximum score for an \"acceptable\" IIHS rating for a particular vehicle. \n\nA HIC-15 (meaning a measure of impact over 15 milliseconds) of 700 is estimated to represent a 5 percent risk of a severe injury (Mertz et al., 1997). A \"severe\" injury is one with a score of 4+ on the Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) (Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine, 1990). \n\nData for specific vehicles can be found on various automotive review websites. Some sample data is as follows, for comparative purposes:\nA comprehensive searchable database of vehicles and their HIC scores is available at safercar.gov.\n\nSport physiologists and biomechanics experts use the HIC in the research of safety equipment and guidelines for competitive sport and recreation. In one study, concussions were found to occur at HIC=250 in most athletes. Studies have been conducted in skiing and other sports to test adequacy of helmets \n\n"}
{"id": "255989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255989", "title": "Honne and tatemae", "text": "Honne and tatemae\n\nHonne and tatemae are Japanese words that describe the contrast between a person's and .\nThe public use of this dyadic concept began in the post-war era.\n\n\"Honne\" may be contrary to what is expected by society or what is required according to one's position and circumstances, and they are often kept hidden, except with one's closest friends. \"Tatemae\" is what is expected by society and required according to one's position and circumstances, and these may or may not match one's \"honne\".\n\nIn many cases \"tatemae\" leads to outright telling of lies in order to avoid exposing the true inward feelings.\n\nThe \"honne–tatemae\" divide is considered by some to be of paramount importance in Japanese culture.\n\n\"Honne\" and \"tatemae\" are similar to the Persian concepts of \"zaher\" (ظاهر) and \"batin\" (باطن). The self in Iranian culture is thought of as having two separate and distinct levels: an inner private core self (batin), and a social self or the \"proper public face\" (zaher).\n\nSome analysts see \"honne\" and \"tatemae\" as a cultural necessity resulting from a large number of people living in a comparatively small island nation. Close-knit co-operation and the avoidance of conflict are considered to be of vital importance in everyday life. The vulnerability of the Japanese to failures and slurs ,which make them feel shame, inferiority, makes them to feel competitions so keenly to avoid them except necessary ones. A Japanese worthy of being called sincere never verges on the danger of insulting a person he does not mean to provoke to aggression. For this reason, the Japanese tend to go to great lengths to avoid conflict, especially within the context of large groups.\n\nThe conflict between \"honne\" and \"giri\" (social obligations) is one of the main topics of Japanese drama throughout the ages. For example, the protagonist would have to choose between carrying out his obligations to his family/feudal lord or pursuing a clandestine love affair.\n\nThe same concept in Chinese culture is called inside face and outside face, and they also frequently come into conflict.\n\nContemporary phenomena such as \"hikikomori\" and parasite singles are seen as examples of late Japanese culture's growing problem of the new generation growing up unable to deal with the complexities of \"honne–tatemae\" and pressure of an increasingly consumerist society.\n\nDebate over whether \"tatemae\" and \"honne\" are a uniquely Japanese phenomenon continues in Japan, especially among those Japanese who feel their culture is unique in having the concepts of \"private mind\" and \"public mind\". Although there might not be direct single word translations for \"honne\" and \"tatemae\" in some languages, they do have two-word descriptions; for example in English \"private mind\" and \"public mind\".\n\nSome researchers suggest that the need for explicit words for \"tatemae\" and \"honne\" in Japanese culture is evidence that the concept is relatively new to Japan, whereas the unspoken understanding in many other cultures indicates a deeper internalization of the concepts. In any case, all cultures have conventions that help to determine appropriate communication and behavior in various social contexts which are implicitly understood without an explicit name for the social mores on which the conventions are based.\n\nA similar discord of Japanese true own feeling and the pretension before public is observed in \"yase-gaman\", the phrase means even starving to skeleton,being content or pretending to be so.Nowadays,the phrase is used for two different meanings, expressing archaic samurai virtue of self-discipline, silent moral heroism, or ridiculing stubbornness, face-savingness.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "41807996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41807996", "title": "Idam", "text": "Idam\n\nIdam(Tamil) (Sanskrit: इदम् or अयम् or इयम्) is a Tamil/Sanskrit word which denotes location or position or place. In grammar it is used at the beginning or middle of a sentence as a nominative or attributive pronoun, combined with or without \"ya\", adds emphasis to other nouns, propositions etc.; and means - this, here or yonder, present or seen nearby, fit for, or without reference to noun refers to एतद् ('that') or to what precedes.\n\nIn the Bhagavad Gita (Sloka XVI.13), in the phrase – इदम् अस्तीदम् अपि मे the word, \"idam\", has been used to mean 'this', \"this it is, this also mine\", and in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad (Stanza I.i.10) in the phrase – पर्याप्तं त्विदम् एतेषां, meaning \"sufficient though that of these\", \"idam\" used as एतद् refers to 'that', whereas (in Stanza. II.5.9) in the phrase – अयम् स्तनयित्नुः, meaning \"Thunder is Vayu\", \"ayam\" refers to 'is'. In the phrase – ब्रह्म इदम् सर्वं, which means - \"Brahman possessing all the qualities is all-pervading\", the word \"idam\" is used in the sense of 'it is', the Atman is identified with \"idam sarvam\" and the same phrase also expresses the whole world because the world springs from the Atman as is indicated in Stanza V.iii.1. In the Vedas, \"idam\" as \"ayam\" has been used as a subject in nominal sentences as an equivalent of a proposition.\n\nIn Pada 32 of Book II Ch.IV of his Ashtadhyayi Pāṇini, who states that words apply per object, explains that: \nइदमोऽन्वादेशेऽशनुदात्त तृत्यादौ ||\nin the room of \"idam\" 'this', in case of its re-employment in a subsequent member of the same sentence and referring to the same thing (\"anvadesha\" i.e. \"adesha\" after re-employment) there is the substitution of as’ which is a \"anudatta\" i.e. gravely accented, when the third case-affix and the rest follow. That means – अ replaces इदम् in all cases except the nominative and the accusative. In this context Katayayana stipulates that one should specify a pronominal used in subsequently referring to something should be co-referential with a previously used term because replacement by an anaphoric pronoun should not possibly be allowed where there is not co-reference. And, with regard to \"taddhita\" affixation abstract patterns like \"tasya idam\" ('prescribing a genitive relationship'), \"tad asmin\" ('prescribing a locative relationship') and \"tat karoti\" ('prescribing an action meaning involving an accusative relationship') have been identified. The genitive form of \"idams\" is explained as a \"sthaneyoga sasthi\" (Pada I.i.49) and the locative form is explained as \"parasaptami\" when a case ending beginning with the instrumental case endings follows. A substitute which has s’ as an it-letter replaces the whole of the original form which step requires an \"anubandha\".\n\nKaiyata tells us that words with \"Krta\" and \"Tadditha\" affixes denoting \"bhava\" ('being') extended for \"bhava\" to mean \"dravya\" ('object') would result in \"dravya\", a pronoun, referring to anything not specified i.e. to an individual object or locus. According to Patanjali the verb as’ means - \"bhava\" or \"kriya\". The term, \"Kriyadharma\" ('the properties of an action'), is also used in contrast with the terms \"dravyadharma\" and \"sattvadharma\"; and Helaraja states that which has the latter two is something that can be referred to by demonstratives such as \"idam\" ('this') and \"tad\" ('that').\n\nIn Pali language, \"Ida\" and \"Idam\" are accusative singular neuters as is the original \"etad\" or \"eghad\". In Tamil literature \"idam\" refers to land, landscape or place, which word is one of the six forming the three sets of oppositions; \"idam\" pairs in opposition with \"kalam\" ('time') i.e. \"idavakupeyar\" that gives name to a place or to something in or from that place, and \"kalavakupeyar\" which applies the name of a time or season to something that occurs in time and season.\n\nMinard (according to whose criteria repetition would imply an adverb and a declined form indicates a pronoun) considers \"idam\" in the phrase \"idam sarvam\" as an adverb but \"idam\" of the Shatapatha Brahmana ( Stanza 7.4.1.25) firstly implies the article and thereafter 'the All', the Absolute totality which removes the anti-thesis of \"ayam\" ('this') and \"asau\" ('yonder world').\n\nMadhvacharya consistent with Samkhya philosophy and Sayana with Advaita Vedanta, take \"idam\" occurring in the first line – न वि जानामि यदिवेदमस्मि निण्यः संनध्दो मनसा चरामि in Mantra I.164.37 of the Rig Veda to mean 'the Universe' instead of its adverbial meaning \"here\", where the word \"samnaddho\" means ignorance rather than scepticism.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita’s and the post-Vedic use of \"idam\" and \"tad\" refers to the Absolute or Brahman or \"the All\" i.e. to that which the Vedic sages sought to clarify. The \"idam\" occurring in the beginning of Rig Veda mantra X.135.7 refers to the seat of Yama where is heard the sound of Yama’s flute which no mortal can resist. \"Idam\" is the nominative singular neuter demonstrative pronouns, Being and Non-being the singular subject which is one without a second, in which condition it applies to anything falling within the range of human experience.\n\nAccording to Sankara, \"aham\" (I-sense secured in introspection, \"visayi\") and \"idam\" (thou-sense sense secured in extrospection, \"visaya\") are polarly related, they are as opposed as light and darkness. \"Idam Brahman\" refers to \"etadakshara\" - Brahman as the objective unity and the \"tadakshara\" – Brahman refers to the subject, the Atman i.e. Brahman as Itself, which cannot be an object matter of \"pramana-jnana\" since the Atman is non-dual and does not have the knowing and the known in it. Reality is to be cognized objectively as an \"idam\" as the goal by looking inwards otherwise the \"vidhi-vakyas\" would serve no purpose. Beyond \"I\" is not any person knower or doer but the transcendental ground of \"I\", the unspeakable; the indeterminate cannot be spoken about directly. Sankara condemns avidya or Adhyasa, the wrong apprehension of a content where it is not nor can ever be, which the true knowledge of \"idam\" or Brahman alone can eradicate. The \"idam\" aspect of \"ahamkara\" reflected by the light of the pure self becomes the object of the \"I-sense\". Brahman cannot be known in the objective attitude as an object somewhere in the beyond as an \"idam\". Advaita Vedanta holds Brahman as the Atman and Brahman as \"idam sarvam\" (\"all this\").\n\nThe Yoga school of Hindu philosophy considers the Individual Self inseparable from and identical with the Universal Self. Shiva represents the supreme consciousness Brahman; the subject (consciousness) which is the positive \"Shiva-tattva\" is called \"aham\" and the object ('power of consciousness') which is the negative \"Shakti-tattva\" is called \"idam\"('this'), the former which pervades the thirty-five \"tattvas\" being passive is dependent on Shakti (\"idam\") for creation to occur. The three principal modes of Shakti are \"iccha-shakti\" ('will power'), \"jnana-shakti\" ('power of knowledge') and \"kriya-shakti\" ('power of action'). \"Sadashiva-tattva\", which is the first thing with a cause, identified with \"iccha-shakti\" consists of both \"aham\", and \"idam\", \"Ishvara-tattva\" identified with \"jnana-shakti\" accounts for \"aham\" recognizing \"idam\", and \"Sadvidya-tattva\" identified with \"kriya-shakti\" is the complete \"subject-object unity\". In \"Cit-shakti\", \"Ananda-shakti\", \"Iccha-shakti\", \"Jnana-shakti\" and \"Kriya-shakti\" the \"svatantraya\" of Shiva is reflected. \"Shakti-tattva\" too is a reflection of \"Shiva-shakti\". The four \"tattvas\" are not created by the energies of Shiva but are an expression or \"ushma\" (\"heat\") of His true nature. \"Suddhavidya\" is the real state of Shiva or the state of \"aham aham-idam ida\", Ishvara which is the state of \"idam-aham\", \"Sadashiva\" is the state of \"aham-idam\" and \"Shakti\" is the state of \"aham\". In the first section of \"aham aham-idam idam\", \"aham aham\" signifies the stable state associated with one’s cognition of the real nature of Self, the truth of this universe, and the second section \"idam idam\" signifies the unstable state when one experiences the universe is false and unreal. The fourth energy called the \"pralayakala pramatri shakti\" makes one reside in the state of \"Suddhavidya\".\n\nShaivism defines \"sristi\" (\"Creation\") as the act of the Supreme Lord making \"idam\" ('object') appear through self-manifestation in the back-ground of \"akasha\" (void or space) created by self-limitation or self-negation. Here \"Idam\" signifies the Anatman which \"Idamta\" though not different from \"Ahamta\" is not eternal; the self-experience of \"Ahamta\" prevails over the self-experience of indistinct \"Idamta\" which disappears on attaining the \"stithi\" state – \"aham eva idam\" (\"I am all this\"). \"Idamta\", a self-extension, aids in the realization of \"Paramshiva\".\n"}
{"id": "1094491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094491", "title": "Immaculate perception", "text": "Immaculate perception\n\nThe expression immaculate perception has been used in various senses by various philosophers.\n\n\nRapper 8Ball released a song in March 2012 titled \"immaculate perception\" featuring Waka Flocka Flame and Yelawolf.\n"}
{"id": "492516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492516", "title": "Inclusion map", "text": "Inclusion map\n\nIn mathematics, if formula_1 is a subset of formula_2, then the inclusion map (also inclusion function, insertion, or canonical injection) is the function formula_3 that sends each element, formula_4, of formula_1 to formula_4, treated as an element of formula_2:\n\nA \"hooked arrow\" () is sometimes used in place of the function arrow above to denote an inclusion map; thus: formula_9 (On the other hand, this notation is sometimes reserved for embeddings.)\n\nThis and other analogous injective functions from substructures are sometimes called natural injections.\n\nGiven any morphism \"f\" between objects \"X\" and \"Y\", if there is an inclusion map into the domain formula_10, then one can form the restriction \"fi\" of \"f\". In many instances, one can also construct a canonical inclusion into the codomain \"R\"→\"Y\" known as the range of \"f\".\n\nInclusion maps tend to be homomorphisms of algebraic structures; thus, such inclusion maps are embeddings. More precisely, given a sub-structure closed under some operations, the inclusion map will be an embedding for tautological reasons. For example, for a binary operation formula_11, to require that\n\nis simply to say that formula_11 is consistently computed in the sub-structure and the large structure. The case of a unary operation is similar; but one should also look at nullary operations, which pick out a \"constant\" element. Here the point is that closure means such constants must already be given in the substructure.\n\nInclusion maps are seen in algebraic topology where if \"A\" is a strong deformation retract of \"X\", the inclusion map yields an isomorphism between all homotopy groups (i.e. is a homotopy equivalence).\n\nInclusion maps in geometry come in different kinds: for example embeddings of submanifolds. Contravariant objects such as differential forms \"restrict\" to submanifolds, giving a mapping in the \"other direction\". Another example, more sophisticated, is that of affine schemes, for which the inclusions\n\nand\n\nmay be different morphisms, where \"R\" is a commutative ring and \"I\" an ideal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "240790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240790", "title": "Indicator function", "text": "Indicator function\n\nIn mathematics, an indicator function or a characteristic function is a function defined on a set \"X\" that indicates membership of an element in a subset \"A\" of \"X\", having the value 1 for all elements of \"A\" and the value 0 for all elements of \"X\" not in \"A\". It is usually denoted by a symbol 1 or \"I\", sometimes in boldface or blackboard boldface, with a subscript specifying the subset.\n\nIn other contexts, such as computer science, this would more often be described as a boolean predicate function (to test set inclusion).\n\nThe indicator function of a subset \"A\" of a set \"X\" is a function\n\ndefined as\n\nThe Iverson bracket allows the equivalent notation, formula_3, to be used instead of formula_4.\n\nThe function formula_5 is sometimes denoted formula_6, formula_7, \"K\" or even just formula_8. (The Greek letter formula_9 appears because it is the initial letter of the Greek word χαρακτήρ, which is the ultimate origin of the word \"characteristic\".)\n\nThe set of all indicator functions on formula_10 can be identified with formula_11, the power set of formula_10. Consequently, both sets are sometimes denoted by formula_13. This is a special case (formula_14) of the notation formula_15 for the set of all functions formula_16.\n\n\nA related concept in statistics is that of a dummy variable. (This must not be confused with \"dummy variables\" as that term is usually used in mathematics, also called a bound variable.)\n\nThe term \"characteristic function\" has an unrelated meaning in classic probability theory. For this reason, traditional probabilists use the term indicator function for the function defined here almost exclusively, while mathematicians in other fields are more likely to use the term \"characteristic function\" to describe the function that indicates membership in a set.\n\nIn fuzzy logic and modern many-valued logic, predicates are the characteristic functions of a probability distribution. That is, the strict true/false valuation of the predicate is replaced by a quantity interpreted as the degree of truth.\n\nThe \"indicator\" or \"characteristic\" function of a subset \"A\" of some set \"X\", maps elements of \"X\" to the range {0,1}.\n\nThis mapping is surjective only when \"A\" is a non-empty proper subset of \"X\". If \"A\" ≡ \"X\", then\n1 = 1. By a similar argument, if \"A\" ≡ Ø then 1 = 0.\n\nIn the following, the dot represents multiplication, 1·1 = 1, 1·0 = 0 etc. \"+\" and \"−\" represent addition and subtraction. \"formula_19\" and \"formula_20\" is intersection and union, respectively.\n\nIf formula_8 and formula_22 are two subsets of formula_10, then\n\nwhere |\"F\"| is the cardinality of \"F\". This is one form of the principle of inclusion-exclusion.\n\nAs suggested by the previous example, the indicator function is a useful notational device in combinatorics. The notation is used in other places as well, for instance in probability theory: if formula_10 is a probability space with probability measure formula_27 and formula_8 is a measurable set, then formula_5 becomes a random variable whose expected value is equal to the probability of formula_8:\n\nThis identity is used in a simple proof of Markov's inequality.\n\nIn many cases, such as order theory, the inverse of the indicator function may be defined. This is commonly called the generalized Möbius function, as a generalization of the inverse of the indicator function in elementary number theory, the Möbius function. (See paragraph below about the use of the inverse in classical recursion theory.)\n\nGiven a probability space formula_32 with formula_33, the indicator random variable formula_34 is defined by formula_35 if formula_36 otherwise formula_37\n\n\n\n\nKurt Gödel described the \"representing function\" in his 1934 paper \"On Undecidable Propositions of Formal Mathematical Systems\". (The paper appears on pp. 41–74 in Martin Davis ed. \"The Undecidable\"):\n\nStephen Kleene (1952) (p. 227) offers up the same definition in the context of the primitive recursive functions as a function φ of a predicate P takes on values 0 if the predicate is true and 1 if the predicate is false.\n\nFor example, because the product of characteristic functions φ*φ* . . . *φ = 0 whenever any one of the functions equals 0, it plays the role of logical OR: IF φ = 0 OR φ = 0 OR . . . OR φ = 0 THEN their product is 0. What appears to the modern reader as the representing function's logical inversion, i.e. the representing function is 0 when the function R is \"true\" or satisfied\", plays a useful role in Kleene's definition of the logical functions OR, AND, and IMPLY (p. 228), the bounded- (p. 228) and unbounded- (p. 279ff) mu operators (Kleene (1952)) and the CASE function (p. 229).\n\nIn classical mathematics, characteristic functions of sets only take values 1 (members) or 0 (non-members). In fuzzy set theory, characteristic functions are generalized to take value in the real unit interval [0, 1], or more generally, in some algebra or structure (usually required to be at least a poset or lattice). Such generalized characteristic functions are more usually called membership functions, and the corresponding \"sets\" are called \"fuzzy\" sets. Fuzzy sets model the gradual change in the membership degree seen in many real-world predicates like \"tall\", \"warm\", etc.\n\nA particular indicator function is the Heaviside step function. The Heaviside step function \"H\"(\"x\") is the indicator function of the one-dimensional positive half-line, i.e. the domain [0, ∞). The distributional derivative of the Heaviside step function is equal to the Dirac delta function, i.e.\n\nwith the following property:\n\nThe derivative of the Heaviside step function can be seen as the 'inward normal derivative' at the 'boundary' of the domain given by the positive half-line. In higher dimensions, the derivative naturally generalises to the inward normal derivative, while the Heaviside step function naturally generalises to the indicator function of some domain \"D\". The surface of \"D\" will be denoted by \"S\". Proceeding, it can be derived that the inward normal derivative of the indicator gives rise to a 'surface delta function', which can be indicated by δ(x):\n\nwhere \"n\" is the outward normal of the surface \"S\". This 'surface delta function' has the following property:\n\nBy setting the function \"f\" equal to one, it follows that the inward normal derivative of the indicator integrates to the numerical value of the surface area \"S\".\n\n"}
{"id": "163156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163156", "title": "Information commissioner", "text": "Information commissioner\n\nThe role of information commissioner differs from nation to nation. Most commonly it is a title given to a government regulator in the fields of freedom of information and the protection of personal data in the widest sense. The office often functions as a specialist ombudsman service.\n\nThe Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) has functions relating to freedom of information and privacy, as well as information policy. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner, which was the national privacy regulator, was integrated into the OAIC on 1 November 2010. There are three independent commissioners in the OAIC: the Australian Information Commissioner, the Freedom of Information Commissioner, and the Privacy Commissioner.\n\nThe Information Commission of Bangladesh promotes and protects access to information. It is formed under the Right to Information Act, 2009, whose stated object is to empower the citizens by promoting transparency and accountability in the working of the public and private organizations, with the ultimate aim of decreasing corruption and establishing good governance. The Act creates a regime through which the citizens of the country may have access to information under the control of public and other authorities.\n\nThe Information Commissioner of Canada is an independent ombudsman appointed by the Parliament of Canada who investigates complaints from people who believe they have been denied rights provided under Canada's \"Access to Information Act\". Similar bodies at provincial level include the Information and Privacy Commissioner (Ontario).\n\nThe Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (FfDF) is the federal commissioner not only for data protection but also (since commencement of the German Freedom of Information Act on January 1, 2006) for freedom of information.\nThe Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data is charged with education and enforcement of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, which first came into force in 1997. The commissioner has the power to investigate and impose fines for violations.\n\nThe Central Information Commission, and State Information Commissions, receive and inquire into complaints from anyone who has been refused access to any information requested under the Right to Information Act, or whose rights under that Act have otherwise been obstructed, for example by being prevented from submitting a data request or being required to pay an excessive fee.\n\nThe Office of the Information Commissioner () was set up under the terms of the Freedom of Information Act, 1997, which came into effect in April 1998. The Information Commissioner may conduct reviews of the decisions of public bodies in relation to requests for access to information. In Ireland, the Information Commissioner also holds the position of Ombudsman. The first holder of the office was Kevin Murphy. In March 2003, the Government of Ireland nominated Emily O'Reilly to be Information Commissioner (and Ombudsman). In December 2013, Peter Tyndall was appointed as her replacement.\n\nThe Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner is responsible for the supervision of federal authorities and private bodies with respect to data protection and freedom of information legislation.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Information Commissioner's Office is responsible for regulating compliance with the Data Protection Act 1998, Freedom of Information Act 2000 and the Environmental Information Regulations 2004. The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 is the responsibility of the Scottish Information Commissioner.\n\nAll other countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area have equivalent officials created under their versions of Directive 95/46. The Europa website gives links to such bodies around Europe.\n\nThe Global Privacy Enforcement Network is a transnational organization for the coordination of privacy laws among its 23 member states and the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32813232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32813232", "title": "Ingelfinger rule", "text": "Ingelfinger rule\n\nIn scientific publishing, the 1969 Ingelfinger rule originally stipulated that \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" (\"NEJM\") would not publish findings that had been published elsewhere, in other media or in other journals. The rule was subsequently adopted by several other scientific journals, and has shaped scientific publishing ever since. Historically it has also helped to ensure that the journal's content is fresh and does not duplicate content previously reported elsewhere, and seeks to protect the scientific embargo system.\n\nThe Ingelfinger rule has been seen as having the aim of preventing authors from performing duplicate publications which would unduly inflate their publication record. On the other hand, it has also been stated that the real reason for the Ingelfinger rule is to protect the journals' revenue stream, and with the increase in popularity of preprint servers such as arXiv, figshare, bioRxiv, and PeerJPrePrints many journals have loosened their requirements concerning the Ingelfinger rule. In a defense of the policy, the journal said in an editorial that the practice discouraged scientists from talking to the media before their work was peer reviewed.\n\nThe rule is named for Franz J. Ingelfinger, the \"NEJM\" editor-in-chief who enunciated it in 1969. An earlier version of the policy had been expressed in 1960 by Samuel Goudsmit, editor of the \"Physical Review Letters\", but did not become as well known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50375", "title": "Internet relationship", "text": "Internet relationship\n\nAn internet relationship is a relationship between people who have met online, and in many cases know each other only via the Internet. Online relationships are similar in many ways to pen pal relationships. This relationship can be romantic, platonic, or even based on business affairs. An internet relationship (or online relationship) is generally sustained for a certain amount of time before being titled a relationship, just as in-person relationships. The major difference here is that an internet relationship is sustained via computer or online service, and the individuals in the relationship may or may not ever meet each other in person. Otherwise, the term is quite broad and can include relationships based upon text, video, audio, or even virtual character. This relationship can be between people in different regions, different countries, different sides of the world, or even people who reside in the same area but do not communicate in person.\n\nAccording to J. Michael Jaffe, author of \"Gender, Pseudonyms, and CMC: Masking Identities and Baring Souls\", \"the Internet was originally established to expedite communication between governmental scientists and defense experts, and was not at all intended to be the popular 'interpersonal mass medium' it has become\", yet new and revolutionary devices enabling the mass public to communicate online are constantly being developed and released.\n\nRather than having many devices for different uses and ways of interacting, communicating online is more accessible and cheaper by having an Internet function built into one device, such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and smartphones. Other ways of communicating online with these devices are via services and applications such as Email, Skype, iChat, instant messaging programs, social networking services, asynchronous discussion groups, online games, virtual worlds and the World Wide Web.\n\nSome of these ways of communicating online are asynchronous (meaning not in real time), such as YouTube and some are synchronous (immediate communication), such as Twitter. Synchronous communication occurs when two or more participants are interacting in real time via voice or text chat.\n\nMany types of internet relationships are possible in today's world of technology.\n\nInternet dating is very relevant in the lives of many individuals worldwide. A major benefit in the rise of Internet dating is the decrease in prostitution. People no longer need to search on the streets to find casual relationships. They can find them online if that is what they desire. Internet dating websites offer matchmaking services for people to find love or whatever else they may be looking for. The creation of the internet and its progressive innovations have opened up doors for people to meet other people who they may very well have never met otherwise.\n\nAlthough the availability of uploading videos to the internet is not a new innovation, it has been made easier since 2008 thanks to YouTube. YouTube began the surge of video streaming sites in 2005 and within three years, smaller web developers started implementing video sharing on their sites. Internet dating sites have benefitted greatly since the surge in easiness and accessibility of picture and video uploading. Videos and pictures are equally important for most personal profiles. These profiles can be found on sites used for interpersonal relationships other than dating as well. \"The body, although graphically absent, does not have to be any less present.\" Older and less advanced sites usually still allow, and often require, each user to upload a picture. Newer and more advanced sites offer the possibility of streaming media live via the user's profile for the site. The inclusion of videos and pictures has become almost a necessity for sexual social networking sites to maintain the loyalty of their members. It is appealing to internet users to be able to view and share videos, especially when forming relationships or friendships.\n\nAccording to an article in the \"New York Times\", mediated matchmaking has been around since the mid-1800s. Online dating was made available in the mid-1990s, with the creation of the first dating sites. These dating sites create a space for liberation of sexuality. According to Sam Yagan of OkCupid, \"the period between New Year's Day and Valentine's Day is [our] busiest six weeks of the year\". Changes that online dating companies have created include not only the increase of pickiness in singles, but the rise in interracial marriages and spread the acceptance of homosexual individuals. Dating sites \"are a place where sexual minorities, inter-sexed people and gay people are enjoying a newly found freedom\". Several studies have shown the availability of online dating to produce a greater closeness and intimacy between individuals because it circumvents barriers that face-to-face interactions might have. \"Participating in personal relationships online allow for almost full freedom from power relations in the offline/real world.\"\n\nA plethora of virtual sexual identities are represented in online profiles. The amount of personal information users are being asked to provide is constantly increasing. More and more online users are starting to explore and experiment with aspects of their sexual identities, whereas before, they may have felt uncomfortable due to social constraints or fear of possible repercussions. Most internet sites containing personal profiles require individuals to fill in \"personal information\" sections. Often these sections include a series of multiple choice questions. Due to the anonymity of these virtual profiles, individuals are more frequent to 'role'-play at being one of the predefined 'types', although offline, reservations may inhibit the individual from sharing true answers.\n\nThere have also been many studies done to observe online daters and their reason for turning to the internet to look for romantic partners. According to Robert J. Brym and Rhonda L. Lenton, users of online games, websites, and other virtual communities are encouraged to conceal their identities and learn things about themselves that they never knew before. With a concealed identity, an online user can be whoever they want to be at that exact moment. They have the ability to venture outside of their comfort zone and act as someone completely different.\n\nThe \"Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication\" reports the results of a study conducted by Robert J. Stephure, Susan D. Boon, Stacy L. MacKinnon, and Vicki L. Deveau on types of relationships online participants were seeking. They concluded that \"when asked what they were looking for in an online relationship, the considerable majority of participants expressed interest in seeking fun, companionship, and someone to talk to. Most also reported interests in developing casual friendships and dating relationships with online partners. Substantially fewer reported using the Internet for the specific purposes of identifying potential sexual or marital partners.\"\n\nHowever, a study published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in 2012 looked at about 19,000 married people and those who met their spouse online said their marriage was more satisfying than those who met their spouse offline. Plus, marriages that began online were less likely to end in separation or divorce.\n\nFaye Mishna, Alan McLuckie, and Michael Saini, co-authors of the Oxford Journal article \"Real-World Dangers in an Online Reality: A Qualitative Study Examining Online Relationships and Cyber Abuse\", reported the results of their research and observation of over 35,000 individuals between the ages of 6 and 24 who have been or currently are a part of an internet relationship. Of the final 346 posts chosen to be included in the study, the average age of online users sharing information about their online relationship(s) was 14 years old. The overwhelming result was that children and youth consider their online relationships to be just as \"real\" as their offline relationships. The study also showed that the internet plays a crucial role in most sexual and romantic experiences of adolescent users.\n\nCanaan Partners have reported that the dating industry brings in an estimate of 3-4 billion dollars yearly from membership fees and advertisements. The range of dating sites has expanded vastly over the past two decades. There are dating websites that focus on the matchmaking of certain groups of people based on religion, sexual preference, race, etc.\n\nThe average life expectancy has been on a rise, leaving many young singles feeling as if they have plenty of time to find a life partner. This opens up time to travel and experience things without the burden of a relationship. As of 1996, more than 20% of Canadians \"were not living in the same census subdivision as they were five years earlier\" and as of 1998, more than half of employed Canadians worried \"they [did] not have enough time to spend with their family and friends\". Due to an increase in many businesses requiring their employees to travel, singles, often young professionals, find online dating websites to be the perfect answer to their \"problem\", states Brym and Lenton.\n\nErik Shipmon, author of “Why Do People Date Online?\", exclaims, \"the Internet is the ultimate singles' bar—without the noise, the drunks, and the high cost of all those not-so-happy hours. Nor, thanks to online dating membership sites, do you have to depend on your friends and family to hook you up with people they think would be perfect for you—and who wouldn't be perfect for, well, anyone, which is why they are still unattached”.\n\nSome people who are in an online relationship also participate in cybersex, which is a virtual sex encounter in which two or more individuals who are connected remotely via computer network send each other sexually explicit messages describing a sexual experience. This can also include individuals communicating sexually via video or audio. Some websites offer a cybersex service, where a patron pays the website owner in exchange for an online sexual experience with another person.\n\nCybersex sometimes includes real life masturbation. The quality of a cybersex encounter typically depends upon the participants' abilities to evoke a vivid, visceral mental picture in the minds of their partners. Imagination and suspension of disbelief are also critically important. Cybersex can occur either within the context of existing or intimate relationships, e.g. among lovers who are geographically separated, or among individuals who have no prior knowledge of one another and meet in virtual spaces or cyberspaces and may even remain anonymous to one another. In some contexts cybersex is enhanced by the use of a webcam to transmit real-time video of the partners.\n\nSocial networking has enabled people to connect with each other via the internet. Sometimes, members of a social networking service do know all, or many of their \"friends\" (Facebook) or \"connections\" (LinkedIn) etc. in person. However, sometimes internet relationships are formed through these services, including but not limited to: Facebook, Myspace, Google Plus, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, DeviantArt and Xanga.\n\n\"Social networking service\" is a very broad term, branching out to websites based on many different aspects. One aspect that is possible on all social networking sites is the possibility of an internet relationship. These sites enable users to search for new connections based on location, education, experiences, hobbies, age, gender, and more. This allows individuals meeting each other to already have some characteristic in common. These sites usually allow for people who do not know each other to \"add\" each other as a connection or friend and to send each other messages. This connection can lead to more communication between two individuals. An immense amount of information about the individuals can be found directly on their social network profile. Proving those individuals include plentiful and accurate information about themselves, people in online relationships can find out much about each other by viewing profiles and \"about me's\". Communication between individuals can become more frequent, thus forming some type of relationship via the internet. This relationship can turn into an acquaintance, a friendship, a romantic relationship, or even a business partnership.\n\nOnline gaming elicits the introduction of many different types of people in one interface. A common type of online game where individuals form relationships is the MMORPG, or a massively multiplayer online role-playing game. Some examples of MMORPGs are World of Warcraft, EverQuest, SecondLife, Final Fantasy Online, and Minecraft (see List of massively multiplayer online role-playing games.) These games enable individuals to create a character that represents them and interact with other characters played by real individuals, while at the same time carrying out the tasks and goals of the actual game.\n\nOnline games other than MMORPGs can elicit internet relationships as well. Card games such as poker and board games like Pictionary have been transformed into virtual interfaces that allow an individual to play against people across the internet, as well as chatting with them. Virtual pet sites such as Webkinz and Neopets are another type of popular online game that allow individuals to socialize with other players.\n\nGames create social spaces for people of various ages, with userbases often crossing age brackets. Most of these games enable individuals to chat with each other, as well as form groups and clans. This interaction can lead to further communication, turning into a friendship or romantic relationship.\n\nAn Internet forum is a website that includes conversations in the form of posted messages. Forums can be for general chatting or can be broken down into categories and topics. They can be used to ask questions, post opinions, or debate topics. Forums include their own jargon, for example a conversation is a \"thread\". Different forums also have different lingo and styles of communicating.\n\nThere are religion forums, music forums, car forums, and countless other topics. These forums elicit communication between individuals no matter the location, gender, ethnicity, etc. although some do include age restrictions. Through these forums people may comment on each other's topics or threads, and with further communication form a friendship, partnership, or romantic relationship.\n\nEven in work settings, the introduction of the internet has established easier and sometimes more practical forms of communicating. Compared to traditional communication in business, communication through internet can be more efficient in the aspect of time-saving. The internet is often referred to as a vehicle for investor relations or the \"electronic highway\" for business transactions in the United States. The Internet has increased organizational involvement by facilitating the flow of information between face-to-face meetings and allowing for people to arrange meetings at virtually any given time. Socially, it has stimulated positive change in people's lives by creating new forms of online interaction and enhancing offline relationships worldwide, allowing for better and more efficient. In the real world, companies which are considered as leading companies in the world already introduced efficient ways of communication based on internet. (See business communication)\n\nFor more intimate relationships, research has shown that personal disclosures create a greater sense of intimacy. This gives a sense of trust and equality, which people search for in a relationship, and this is often easier to achieve online than face to face, although not all disclosures are responded to positively. Individuals are able to engage in more self-disclosure than an average interaction, because a person can share their inner thoughts, feelings and beliefs and be met with less disapproval and fewer sanctions online than is the case in face-to-face encounters. Researcher Cooper termed this type of relationship as a \"Triple A Engine\" implying that internet relationships are accessible, affordable, and anonymous.\n\nOnline, barriers that might stand in the way of a potential relationship such as physical attractiveness, social anxiety and stuttering do not exist. Whereas those could hinder an individual in face-to-face encounters, an Internet interaction negates this and allows the individual freedom. Research has shown that stigmas such as these can make a large impact on first impressions in face-to-face meeting, and this does not apply with an online relationship. Furthermore, as the internet has become a worldwide phenomenon, many people can interact with others around the world, or find someone who fits their radar or their type, if there is no one who they find physically or emotionally attractive in their own area. The internet allows for interaction of many different people so there is greater chance of finding someone more attractive. The Internet \"enhances face-to-face and telephone communication as network members become more aware of each others' needs and stimulate their relationships through more frequent contact\".\n\nAccording to Joseph Walter's Social Information Processing Theory, computer-mediated communications can work for people. While online interactions take roughly four times longer than face-to-face interactions, this gives users the opportunity to evaluate and the time to think, making sure they say the perfect response. Thus, chronemics is the only verbal clue available to digital communications. With the focus on conversation and not appearance, digital interactions over time will develop higher levels of intimacy than face-to-face interactions.\n\nIn \"The Forms of Capital\" Pierre Bourdieu defines social capital as \"the aggregate of the actual or potential resources which are linked to possession of a durable network of more or less institutionalized relationships of mutual acquaintance and recognition.\"\n\nSocial capital researchers have found that “various forms of social capital, including ties with friends and neighbors, are related to indices of psychological well-being, such as self-esteem and satisfaction with life”. Then, the use of a social networking service could help to improve the social capital.\n\nMore than helping to improve the social capital, the use of a social networking service could help to retain it. For instance, Cummings, Lee and Kraut have shown that communication services like instant messaging “help college students to remain close to their high school friends after they leave home for college”.\n\nThe Internet provides the opportunity for misrepresentation, particularly in the early stages of a relationship when commitment is low, and self-presentation and enhancement agendas are paramount. After receiving many complaints about his social networking site Ashley Madison, founder Noel Biderman responded to accusations that his and other similar cyber-dating sites are at fault for the \"rising divorce rates and growth in casual dating\". Biderman argued that the idea for Ashleymadison.com came to him when he realized the growing number of people on \"mainstream dating sites\" were married or in a relationship but posing as singles in order to start an affair.\n\nIn an empirical study of commitment and misrepresentation on the internet Cornwell and Lundgren (2001) surveyed 80 chat-room users. Half about their 'realspace' relationships, and half about their cyberspace relationships. They found that 'realspace' relationships were considered to be more serious, with greater feelings of commitment, than the cyber-relationship participants. Both groups, however, reported similar levels of satisfaction and potential for 'emotional growth' with regard to romantic relationships. Cornwell and Lundgren went on to ask about whether the participants had misrepresented themselves to their partner in a number of areas: their interests (e.g. hobbies, musical tastes); their age; their background; their appearance and 'mis-presentation of yourself in any other way' (p. 203). Participants responded using either yes or no to each question, and their score was summed into a misrepresentation measure. The results can be found below:\n\nAn often forgotten aspect on online interactions is the possible danger present. The option for an individual to conceal their identity may be harmless in many cases, but it can also lead to extremely dangerous situations. Hidden identities are often used in cases of cyberbullying and cyberstalking. Concealing person's true identity is also a technique that can be used to manipulate their new online friend or lover into convincing them that they are someone completely different. This is something most online predators do in order to prey on victims. Despite the awareness of dangers, Mishna et al. found children and youth to still partake in online relationships with little care or concern for negative effects. Brym and Lenton also claim that \"although [their] true identities are usually concealed, they sometimes decide to meet and interact in real life\". From these dangers, people seriously have considered a kind of policy forcing people to use their real name only and open their personal information. By doing this, people are not going to do harmful to others because their information can be checked by others.\n\nEngaging in internet relationships is also risky because the information placed online about an individual does not have to be accurate. An individual can formulate an entirely different persona and pose as this person as long as they desire. This can be hurtful to individuals who are honest about their identities and believe that they are in a positive relationship or friendship with the individual. This concept has been most recently illustrated on the television show, \"\".\n\nInternet affairs offer a new perspective on the definition of an affair. Some people consider internet relationships to be classified as an affair while others claim contact affairs are much more serious. Trent Parker and Karen Wampler conducted a qualitative study to discover the different perceptions of internet relationships based on gender differences. Through their study they found internet affairs were considered less of an affair than a physical relationship. Through the results from the same study Parker and Wampler also concluded that women considered sexual internet activities such as internet porn much more severe than the men did. Internet affairs and physical contact affairs are similar because they both involve another partner. \"The primary difference between an internet affair and an affair is that in an affair, the couple meet to engage in the relationship. With internet affairs, on the other hand, the couple rarely meet. This offers a unique advantage to internet affairs.\"\n\nSince the creation of the Internet, communication has become one of it is prime uses. It has become a ubiquitous force in people's everyday lives due to the increase in the regularity and quality of interaction. The internet has also created a new approach to human relationships, and it has changed the way people connect to one another in their social worlds. Online relationships have also changed which effective strategies we use to perform maintenance on our relationships, depending on the exclusivity of the internet the relationship. In the past, postal services made communication possible without the necessity of physical presence, and the invention of the telephone allowed synchronous communication between people across long distances. The internet combined the advantages of both mail and telephone, unifying the speed of the telephone with the written character of the mail service. The evolution of communication within the Internet has arguably changed the nature of individuals' relationships with one another. Some see a major negative impact resulting in an increased use of internet communication is of its diversion of true community because online interaction via computers is often regarded as a more impersonal communication medium than face-to-face communication. Others consider the incorporation of the internet allowing online activities to be \"viewed as an extension of offline activities\". The multiple techniques that humans use to communicate, such as taking turns or nodding in agreement, are absent in these settings. Without the body language cues present in a face-to-face conversation, such as pauses or gestures, participants in instant messaging may type over one another's messages without necessarily waiting for a cue to talk. Also, with or without the correct grammar, tone and context can be misunderstood. Recently people who already adapted internet-based communication have missed face-to-face interactions because this traditional way of communication is able to offer advancement in our relationships.\n\nIn 1991, Stone argued that when virtual communities began forming, this process generated a new type of social space where people could still apparently meet face-to-face, but this required a redefinition of the terms “meet” and “face-to-face.” These virtual communities allowed people to effortlessly access others, and in many ways to feel better connected, feel that they receive greater support from others, and to obtain emotional satisfaction from their families, communities and society. However, it does have several obvious problems for people to communicate with others. The representative limitation of this way of communications is that it cannot contain people's diverse emotions completely, so it can cause diverse misunderstanding between people.\n\nIn 1987, this understanding of social spaces was challenged by scholars such as James R. Beniger. Beniger questioned whether these virtual communities were “real” or were pseudo communities, “a pattern relating that, while looking highly interpersonal interaction, is essentially impersonal.” He put forward the idea that in a society within the virtual world, participants lack the necessary honesty it would take to create a “real” virtual community.\n\nIn many cases the introduction of the Internet as a social instigator may cause a repercussion leading to a weakening of social ties. In a study conducted in 1998, Robert Kraut et al. discovered that Internet users were becoming less socially involved. They linked this to an increase in loneliness and depression in relation to use of the Internet. Though these findings may have been sound, in a later study, Kraut et al. revisited his original study with the idea of expanding his current initial sample and correlating it with new subsequently collected longitudinal data. This synthesis produced a different outcome than the one that Kraut had originally presented.\n\nIn this newer paper, Kraut stated that there were fewer negative affects than he had originally found, and in some cases the negative effect had vanished. In the second study he saw that small positive effects began to appear in social involvement and psychological well-being. Assessing the effect of the Internet over a period of time, he saw people's use of the Internet increase in sophistication.\n\nDuring the Kraut et al. study, the researchers asked reclusive people if they use the Internet to counteract the loss of social skills that are needed in face-to-face encounters. They also asked people with strong social skills whether they use the Internet to amplify their abilities to network amongst people. The study discovered that these people who already possessed strong social skills were the ones who received the most beneficial outcome to using the Internet. The concluding analysis was, that rather than helping to decrease the difference between those who already had social skills compared with those lacking in social skills, internet use had actually exacerbated the differences in the skill level needed for social interaction.\n\nThis theory was later challenged in a study, by McKenna et al., that indicated that people who are more socially inept use the internet to create an initial contact which allows them to explore their “true self\" within these interactions. These social interactions within cyberspace tend to lead to closer and high quality relationships which influence face-to-face encounters. In essence, these findings meant that although it is not clear whether the internet helps reclusive people develop better social skills, it does allow reclusive people to form relationships that may not have existed otherwise because of their lack of comfort with interpersonal situations in general. When these relationships emerge into face-to-face relationships it is hard to distinguish these relationships from those that started as face-to-face interactions. Future studies on this topic may allow scholars to define whether or not society is becoming too dependent on the Internet as a social tool. Those relationships are also found for people suffering from depression, suicidal ideation and other mental health problems. For example, suicidal people were more likely to go online in search of new interpersonal relationships and to seek interpersonal help. Similar findings were found for suicidal LGBT. These studies show that people who have trouble meeting similar others, not only the 'socially inept', are using the internet to create stronger and more extensive interpersonal relationships.\n\nThe meaning of the word “friend” remains somewhat unclear, especially when it comes to online friendship. Online friends are either relations that people know it the real world or people met once at a conference, or maybe they are friends with someone known on a social networking service.\nAlbert Mehrabian showed that 93% of communication is through nonverbal means (including body language) and only 7% down to verbal communication. Thus, it would be difficult to build true friendships on a social network. Moreover, according to Sherry Tutkle, a “face-to-face friendship is risky”. That can lead people to a virtual confinement.\nThe other issue raised by experts is the race for Facebook friends. If a Facebook user had in 2012 243 friends in average, this number increased to 338 in 2014. \nWhatever the exact number is, it is safe to assume that it is greater than 150. However, According to evolutionary anthropologist Robin Dunbar, 150 is the largest number of people you can share trust and obligations with.\n\nWhether new technologies such as the Internet and mobile phones exacerbate social isolation (of any origin) is a debated topic among sociologists. With the advent of online social networking communities, there are increasing options to become involved with social activities that do not require real-world physical interaction. (see social isolation)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26279594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26279594", "title": "Interpretation (philosophy)", "text": "Interpretation (philosophy)\n\nA philosophical interpretation is the assignment of meanings to various concepts, symbols, or objects under consideration. Two broad types of interpretation can be distinguished: interpretations of physical objects, and interpretations of concepts (Conceptual model).\n\nInterpretation is related to perceiving the things. An aesthetic interpretation is an explanation of the meaning of some work of art. An aesthetic interpretation expresses an understanding of a work of art, a poem, performance, or piece of literature. There may be different interpretations to same work by art by different people owing to their different perceptions or aims. All such interpretations are termed as 'aesthetic interpretations'. Some people, instead of interpreting work of art, believe in interpreting artist himself. It pretty much means \"how or what do I believe about (subject)\"\n\nA judicial interpretation is a conceptual interpretation that explains how the judiciary should interpret the law, particularly constitutional documents and legislation (see statutory interpretation).\n\nIn logic, an interpretation is an assignment of meaning to the symbols of a language. The formal languages used in mathematics, logic, and theoretical computer science are defined in solely syntactic terms, and as such do not have any meaning until they are given some interpretation. The general study of interpretations of formal languages is called \"formal semantics\".\n\nReligious interpretation and similarly religious self-interpretation define a section of religion-related studies (theology, comparative religion, reason) where attention is given to aspects of perception—where religious symbolism and the self-image of all those who hold religious views have important bearing on how others perceive their particular belief system and its adherents.\n\nAn interpretation is a \"descriptive interpretation\" (also called a \"factual interpretation\") if at least one of the undefined symbols of its formal system becomes, in the interpretation, the name of a physical object, or observable property. A descriptive interpretation is a type of interpretation used in science and logic to talk about empirical entities.\n\nWhen scientists attempt to formalize the principles of the empirical sciences, they use an interpretation to model reality, in the same way logicians axiomatize the principles of logic. The aim of these attempts is to construct a formal system that will serve as a conceptual model of reality. Predictions or other statements drawn from such a formal system mirror or map the real world only insofar as these scientific models are true.\n\n"}
{"id": "1782201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1782201", "title": "Kleshas (Buddhism)", "text": "Kleshas (Buddhism)\n\nKleshas (; \"kilesa\"; \"nyon mongs\"), in Buddhism, are mental states that cloud the mind and manifest in unwholesome actions. \"Kleshas\" include states of mind such as anxiety, fear, anger, jealousy, desire, depression, etc. Contemporary translators use a variety of English words to translate the term \"kleshas\", such as: afflictions, defilements, destructive emotions, disturbing emotions, negative emotions, mind poisons, etc.\n\nIn the contemporary Mahayana and Theravada Buddhist traditions, the three kleshas of ignorance, attachment, and aversion are identified as the root or source of all other kleshas. These are referred to as the \"three poisons\" in the Mahayana tradition, or as the three \"unwholesome roots\" in the Theravada tradition.\n\nWhile the early Buddhist texts of the Pali canon do not specifically enumerate the three root kleshas, over time the \"three poisons\" (and the kleshas generally) came to be seen as the very roots of samsaric existence.\n\nIn the Pali Canon's discourses (\"sutta\"), \"kilesa\" is often associated with the various passions that defile bodily and mental states. In the Pali Canon's Abhidhamma and post-canonical Pali literature, ten defilements are identified, the first three of which – greed, hate, delusion – are considered to be the \"roots\" of suffering.\n\nIn the Pali Canon's Sutta Pitaka, \"kilesa\" and its correlate \"upakkilesa\" are affective obstacles to the pursuit of direct knowledge (\"abhijñā\") and wisdom (\"pañña\").\n\nFor instance, the Samyutta Nikaya includes a collection of ten discourses (SN 27, \"Kilesa-sayutta\") that state that any association of \"desire-passion\" (\"chanda-rāgo\") with the body or mind is a \"defilement of mind\" (\"cittasse'so upakkileso\"):\n\nMore broadly, the five hindrances – sensual desire (\"kāmacchanda\"), anger (\"byāpāda\"), sloth-torpor (\"thīna-middha\"), restlessness-worry (\"uddhacca-kukkucca\"), and doubt (\"vicikicchā\") – are frequently associated with \"kilesa\" in the following (or a similar) manner:\n\nAdditionally, in the Khuddaka Nikaya's Niddesa, \"kilesa\" is identified as a component of or synonymous with craving (\"\") and lust (\"rāga\").\n\nWhile the Sutta Pitaka does not offer a list of \"kilesa\", the Abhidhamma Pitaka's Dhammasangani (Dhs. 1229\"ff\".) and Vibhanga (Vbh. XII) as well as in the post-canonical Visuddhimagga (Vsm. XXII 49, 65) enumerate ten defilements (\"dasa kilesa-vatthūni\") as follows:\n\nThe Vibhanga also includes an eightfold list (\"aha kilesa-vatthūni\") composed of the first eight of the above ten.\n\nThroughout Pali literature, the first three \"kilesa\" in the above tenfold Abhidhamma list (\"lobha dosa moha\") are known as the \"unwholesome roots\" (\"akusala-mūla\" or the root of akusala); and, their opposites (\"alobha adosa amoha\") are the three \"wholesome roots\" (\"kusala-mūla\" or the root of kusala). The presence of such a wholesome or unwholesome root during a mental, verbal or bodily action conditions future states of consciousness and associated mental factors (see Karma).\n\nIn the 5th-century CE commentarial Visuddhimagga, in its discussion of \"Dependent Origination\" (Pali: \"paticca-samuppada\") (Vsm. XVII), it presents different expository methods for understanding this teaching's twelve factors (\"nidana\"). One method (Vsm. XVII, 298) divides the twelve factors into three \"rounds\" (\"vaa\"):\nIn this framework (see Figure to the right, starting from the bottom of the Figure), \"kilesa\" (\"ignorance\") conditions \"kamma\" (\"formations\") which conditions results (\"consciousness\" through \"feelings\") which in turn condition \"kilesa\" (\"craving\" and \"clinging\") which condition \"kamma\" (\"becoming\") and so on. Buddhaghosa (Vsm. XVII, 298) concludes:\nAs can be seen, in this framework, the round of defilements consists of:\n\nElsewhere in the Visuddhimagga (Vsm. XXII, 88), in the context of the four noble persons (\"ariya-puggala\", see Four stages of enlightenment), the text refers to a precursor to the attainment of nibbana as being the complete eradication of \"the defilements that are the root of the round\" (\"vaa-mūla-kilesā\").\n\nThe three kleshas of ignorance, attachment and aversion are referred to as the three poisons (Skt. \"triviṣa\") in the Mahayana tradition and as the three unwholesome roots (Pāli, \"akusala-mūla\"; Skt. \"akuśala-mūla\" ) in the Therevada tradition. These three poisons (or unwholesome roots) are considered to be the root of all the other kleshas.\n\nIn the Mahayana tradition, the five main kleshas are referred to as the five poisons (Sanskrit: \"pañca kleśaviṣa\"; Tibetan-Wylie: \"dug lnga\").\n\nThe five poisons consist of the \"three poisons\" with two additional poisons: pride and jealousy. The five poisons are:\nThe \"Abhidharma-kośa\" identifies six root kleshas (\"mūlakleśa\"):\n\nIn the context of the Yogācāra school of Buddhism, Muller (2004: p. 207) states that the Six Klesha arise due to the \"...reification of an 'imagined self' (Sanskrit: \"\")\".\n\nThe Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra lists approximately 50 kleshas, including those of attachment, aversion, stupidity, jealousy, pride, heedlessness, haughtiness, ill-will, quarrelsomeness, wrong livelihood, deceit, consorting with immoral friends, attachment to pleasure, to sleep, to eating, and to yawning; delighting in excessive talking and uttering lies, as well as thoughts of harm.\n\nMahayana literature often features an enumeration of \"two obscurations\" (Wylie: \"sgrib gnyis\"), the \"obscuration of conflicting emotions\" (Sanskrit: \"kleśa-avaraṇa\", Wylie: \"nyon-mongs-pa'i sgrib-ma\") and the \"obscuration concerning the knowable\" (Sanskrit: \"jñeya-avaraṇa\", Wylie: \"shes-bya'i sgrib-ma\").\n\nContemporary translators have used many different English words to translate the term \"kleshas\", such as: afflictions, passions, destructive emotions, disturbing emotions, etc.\n\nThe following table provides brief descriptions of the term kleshas given by various contemporary Buddhist teachers and scholars:\nAll Buddhist schools teach that through Tranquility (Samatha) meditation the kilesas are pacified, though not eradicated, and through Insight (Vipassana) the true nature of the kilesas and the mind itself is understood. When the empty nature of the Self and the Mind is fully understood, there is no longer a root for the disturbing emotions to be attached to, and the disturbing emotions lose their power to distract the mind.\n\nThe term \"kleshas\" has been translated into English as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9484013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9484013", "title": "Montrose Wolf", "text": "Montrose Wolf\n\nMontrose Madison Wolf (May 29, 1935 – March 19, 2004) was an American psychologist. He developed the technique of \"time-out\" as a learning tool to shape behavior in children in the 1960s. He was a leader in creating the discipline of problem-solving, real-world psychological research known as applied behavior analysis. He created the Teaching Family Model as an intervention program for dealing with juvenile delinquents. He helped replicate this model almost 800 times. In the field of applied behavior analysis he introduced and named the concept of social validity.\n\nDonald Baer, Sidney W. Bijou, Todd Risley, James Sherman, and Wolf established the \"Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\", in 1968 as a peer-reviewed journal publishing research about experimental analysis of behavior and its practical applications.\n"}
{"id": "419842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419842", "title": "Moral character", "text": "Moral character\n\nMoral character or character is an evaluation of an individual's stable moral qualities. The concept of \"character\" can imply a variety of attributes including the existence or lack of virtues such as empathy, courage, fortitude, honesty, and loyalty, or of good behaviors or habits. Moral character primarily refers to the assemblage of qualities that distinguish one individual from another—although on a cultural level, the set of moral behaviors to which a social group adheres can be said to unite and define it culturally as distinct from others. Psychologist Lawrence Pervin defines moral character as \"a disposition to express behavior in consistent patterns of functions across a range of situations\". Similarly, the philosopher George refers to moral character as the “sum of one’s moral habits and dispositions.”\n\nThe word \"character\" is derived from the Ancient Greek word \"charaktêr\", referring to a mark impressed upon a coin. Later it came to mean a point by which one thing was told apart from others. There are two approaches when dealing with moral character: Normative ethics involve moral standards that exhibit right and wrong conduct. It is a test of proper behavior and determining what is right and wrong. Applied ethics involve specific and controversial issues along with a moral choice, and tend to involve situations where people are either for or against the issue.\n\nIn 1982 V. Campbell and R. Bond proposed the following as major sources in influencing character and moral development: heredity, early childhood experience, modeling by important adults and older youth, peer influence, the general physical and social environment, the communications media, the teachings of schools and other institutions, and specific situations and roles that elicit corresponding behavior.\n\nThe field of business ethics examines moral controversies relating to the social responsibilities of capitalist business practices, the moral status of corporate entities, deceptive advertising, insider trading, employee rights, job discrimination, affirmative action and drug testing.\n\nIn the military field, character is considered particularly relevant in the leadership development area. Military leaders should not only \"know\" theoretically the moral values but they must embody these values.\n\nThe \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" provides a historical account of some important developments in philosophical approaches to moral character. A lot of attention is given to Plato, Aristotle, and Karl Marx's views, since they all follow the idea of moral character after the Greeks. Marx accepts Aristotle's insight that virtue and good character are based on a sense of self-esteem and self-confidence.\n\nPlato believed that the soul is divided into three parts of desire: Rational, Appetitive, or Spirited. In order to have moral character, we must understand what contributes to our overall good and have our spirited and appetitive desires educated properly, so that they can agree with the guidance provided by the rational part of the soul.\n\nAristotle tells us that there are good people in the world. These are those who exhibit excellences – excellences of thought and excellences of character. His phrase for excellences of character – \"êthikai aretai\" – we usually translate as moral virtue or moral excellence. When we speak of a moral virtue or an excellence of character, the emphasis is on the combination of qualities that make an individual the sort of ethically admirable person that he is. Aristotle defines virtuous character at the beginning of Book II in \"Nicomachean Ethics\": “Excellence of character, then, is a state concerned with choice, lying in a mean relative to us, this being determined by reason and in the way in which the man of practical wisdom would determine it. Now it is a mean between two vices, that which depends on excess and that which depends on defect”. In Aristotle's view, good character is based on two naturally occurring psychological responses that most people experience without difficulty: our tendency to take pleasure from self-realizing activity and our tendency to form friendly feelings toward others under specific circumstances. Based on his view, virtually everyone is capable of becoming better and they are the ones responsible for actions that express (or could express) their character.\n\nAbraham Lincoln once said, \"Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing.\"\n\nChristian character is also defined as exhibiting the \"Fruit of the Holy Spirit\": love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. Doctrines of grace and total depravity assert that – due to original sin – mankind, entirely or in part, was incapable of truly being good without God's intervention; otherwise at best, one could only mimic good behavior for selfish reasons.\n\nThe Milgram experiment was a study done in the early 1960s that helped measure a person's moral character. Subjects from different socio-economic groups were tested on their willingness to press a buzzer that caused a participant – posing as a subject – in another room to express great pain and distress for giving a wrong answer to a test question. When the subjects raised questions about what they are being asked to do, the experimenter applied mild pressure in the form of appealing to the need to complete the experiment. The Milgram experiment caused a huge amount of criticism among individuals. In post-experiment interviews with subjects Milgram noted that many were completely convinced of the wrongness of what they were doing. Although the subjects may have had moral values, many were criticized on whether they were a truly moral character.\n\nIn one experiment that was done in the United States in 1985, the moral character of a person was based on whether or not a person had found a dime in a public phone booth. The findings were that 87% of subjects who found a dime in a phone booth mailed a sealed and addressed envelope that was left at the booth in an apparent mistake by someone else, while only 4% of those who did not find a dime helped. Some found it very troubling that people would be influenced by such morally trivial factors in their choice whether to provide low-cost assistance to others. John M. Doris raises the issue of ecological validity – do experimental findings reflect phenomena found in natural contexts. He recognizes that these results are counterintuitive to the way most of us think about morally relevant behavior.\n\nAnother experiment that was done that asked college students at Cornell to predict how they would behave when faced with one of several moral dilemmas, and to make the same predictions for their peers. Again and again, people predicted that they would be more generous and kind than others. Yet when put into the moral dilemma, the subjects did not behave as generously or as kindly as they had predicted. In psychological terms, the experimental subjects were successfully anticipating the base rate of moral behavior and accurately predicting how often others, in general, would be self-sacrificing.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, a number of philosophers and social scientists began to question the very presuppositions that theories of moral character and moral character traits are based on. Due to the importance of moral character to issues in philosophy, it is unlikely that the debates over the nature of moral character will disappear anytime soon.\n\nSituationism can be understood as composed of three central claims:\n\n\nAccording to Situationists, the empirical evidence favors their view of moral character over the Traditional View. Hugh Hartshorne and M. A. May’s study of the trait of honesty among school children found no cross-situational correlation. A child may be consistently honest with his friends, but not with his parents or teachers. From this and other studies, Hartshorne and May concluded that character traits are not robust but rather “specific functions of life situations”.\n\nA second challenge to the traditional view can be found in the idea of moral luck. This idea is that moral luck occurs when the moral judgment of an agent depends on factors beyond the agent’s control. Fiery Cushman clarifies that this is judgement of an outcome comprising both the agent's character and an unanticipated circumstance, rather than an agent's intent. There are number of ways that moral luck can motivate criticisms of moral character. It is similar to “the kind of problems and situations one faces” If all of an agent’s moral character traits are situation-specific rather than robust, what traits an agent manifests will depend on the situation that she finds herself in. But what situations an agent finds herself in is often beyond her control and thus a matter of situational luck. Whether moral character traits are robust or situation-specific, some have suggested that what character traits one has is itself a matter of luck. If our having certain traits is itself a matter of luck, this would seem to undermine one’s moral responsibility for one’s moral character, and thus the concept of moral character altogether. As Owen Flanagan and Amélie Oksenberg Rorty write:\nA moral character trait is a character trait for which the agent is morally responsible. If moral responsibility is impossible, however, then agents cannot be held responsible for their character traits or for the behaviors that they do as a result of those character traits.\n\nA similar argument has also recently been advocated by Bruce Waller. According to Waller, no one is \"morally responsible for her character or deliberative powers, or for the results that flow from them.… Given the fact that she was shaped to have such characteristics by environmental (or evolutionary) forces far beyond her control, she deserves no blame [nor praise]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8137050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137050", "title": "National Training Laboratories", "text": "National Training Laboratories\n\nKurt Lewin founded the National Training Laboratories Institute for Applied Behavioral Science, known as the NTL Institute, an American non-profit behavioral psychology center, in 1947. NTL became a major influence in modern corporate training programs, and in particular developed the T-groups methodology that remains in place today. Lewin died early on in the project, which was continued by co-founders Ron Lippitt, Lee Bradford, and Ken Benne, among others. The NTL Institute produced or influenced other notable and influential contributors to the human relations movement in post-World War II management though, notably Douglas McGregor (who, like Lewin, also died young), Chris Argyris and Warren Bennis.\n\nNTL began publishing \"The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science\" in 1965 and it remains a renowned publication contributing a body of knowledge to the field that increases understanding of change processes and outcomes. \n\nThe NTL Institute continues to work in the field of organization development. The original center in Bethel, Maine continues to operate, but the organization has moved its headquarters to Silver Spring, Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3268041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268041", "title": "Open class system", "text": "Open class system\n\nAn open class system is the stratification that facilitates social mobility, with individual achievement and personal merit determining social rank. The hierarchical social status of a person is achieved through their effort. Any status that is based on family background, ethnicity, gender, and religion, which is also known as ascribed status, becomes less important. There is no distinct line between the classes and there would be more positions within that status. Core industrial nations seem to have more of an ideal open class system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "467428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467428", "title": "Potential gradient", "text": "Potential gradient\n\nIn physics, chemistry and biology, a potential gradient is the local rate of change of the potential with respect to displacement, i.e. spatial derivative, or gradient. This quantity frequently occurs in equations of physical processes because it leads to some form of flux.\n\nThe simplest definition for a potential gradient \"F\" in one dimension is the following:\n\nwhere is some type of scalar potential and is displacement (not distance) in the direction, the subscripts label two different positions , and potentials at those points, . In the limit of infinitesimal displacements, the ratio of differences becomes a ratio of differentials:\n\nwhere is the electromagnetic vector potential. This last potential expression in fact reduces Faraday's law to an identity.\n\nIn fluid mechanics, the velocity field describes the fluid motion. An irrotational flow means the velocity field is conservative, or equivalently the vorticity pseudovector field is zero: \n\nThis allows the velocity potential to be defined simply as:\n\nIn an electrochemical half-cell, at the interface between the electrolyte (an ionic solution) and the metal electrode, the standard electric potential difference is:\n\nwhere \"R\" = gas constant, \"T\" = temperature of solution, \"z\" = valency of the metal, \"e\" = elementary charge, \"N\" = Avogadro constant, and \"a\" is the activity of the ions in solution. Quantities with superscript ⊖ denote the measurement is taken under standard conditions. The potential gradient is relatively abrupt, since there is an almost definite boundary between the metal and solution, hence the interface term.\n\nIn biology, a potential gradient is the net difference in electric charge across a cell membrane.\n\nSince gradients in potentials correspond to physical fields, it makes no difference if a constant is added on (it is erased by the gradient operator which includes partial differentiation). This means there is no way to tell what the \"absolute value\" of the potential \"is\" – the zero value of potential is completely arbitrary and can be chosen anywhere by convenience (even \"at infinity\"). This idea also applies to vector potentials, and is exploited in classical field theory and also gauge field theory.\n\nAbsolute values of potentials are not physically observable, only gradients and path-dependent potential differences are. However, the Aharonov–Bohm effect is a quantum mechanical effect which illustrates that non-zero electromagnetic potentials along a closed loop (even when the and fields are zero everywhere in the region) lead to changes in the phase of the wave function of an electrically charged particle in the region, so the potentials appear to have measurable significance.\n\nField equations, such as Gauss's laws for electricity, for magnetism, and for gravity, can be written in the form:\n\nwhere is the electric charge density, monopole density (should they exist), or mass density and is a constant (in terms of physical constants , , and other numerical factors).\n\nScalar potential gradients lead to Poisson's equation:\n\nA general theory of potentials has been developed to solve this equation for the potential. The gradient of that solution gives the physical field, solving the field equation.\n\n"}
{"id": "35682355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35682355", "title": "Prisoners' rights in international law", "text": "Prisoners' rights in international law\n\nPrisoners' rights in international law are found in a number of international treaties. For the most part these treaties came into existence following the two World Wars and the body of law continues to be added to and amended.\n\nThe events of World War I and World War II had a profound effect on international law due to the widespread denial of civil rights and liberties on the basis of racial, religious, and political discrimination. The systematic use of violence, including murder and ultimately genocide, the use of slave labor, abuse and murder of prisoners of war, deportations, and confiscation of property forced changes to the status quo. Over the proceeding decades, large scale changes began to occur in all areas of international law, and prisoners’ rights were no exception. \n\nNow, there are international instruments \n\nFurther there are recommondations which lay down codes by which prisoners should be dealt with. Foremost amongst them are \n\n\nThe Third Geneva Convention defines humanitarian protections for prisoners of war. Prisoners of war are defined as: \n\nPrisoners of war may not renounce rights secured by the Conventions. Those rights include the rights to humane treatment which prohibits specifically violence causing death or seriously endangering health, or physical mutilation or scientific or medical experiments, protection from acts of intimidation, insults and public curiosity, protection from reprisals, exercise, protection from physical or mental torture, adequate physical and psychological treatment, to keep personal items including money, to be evacuated if the territory in which they are held becomes too dangerous, to adequate food, water, shelter and clothing, sanitary living conditions, religious freedom, and to complain. Detaining powers have the right to use appropriate force in the event of escape or a riot, to require prisoners to given their name and rank, and to utilize prisoners for labor as long the work doesn't have to do with the war effort.\n\nThe 1929 Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War was adopted in 1929 but was significantly revised and replaced by the Third Geneva Convention in 1949. The United Nations Security Council is the final international tribunal for all issues relating to the Geneva Conventions. All signatories to the UN Charter, of which there are 193, are bound by the Geneva Conventions.\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights came into force 23 March 1976. Article 10 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provides that any person deprived of their liberty shall be treated with humanity and dignity. The article imposes a requirement of separation of prisoners in pre-trial detention from those already convicted of crimes, as well as a specific obligation to separate accused juvenile prisoners from adults and bring them before trial speedily. There is also a requirement that the focus of prisons should be reform and rehabilitation, not punishment. These provisions apply to those in prisons, hospitals (particularly psychiatric hospitals), detention facilities, correction facilities or any other facility in which a person is deprived of their liberty. The article complements article 7 of the Covenant, which bans torture or other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, by guaranteeing those deprived of their liberty with the same conditions as that set for free persons.\n\nThe United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners came into force in 1955. The standards set out by the UN are not legally binding but offer guidelines in international and municipal law with respect to any person held in any form of custody. They are generally regarded as being good principle and practice for the management of custodial facilities. The document sets out standards for those in custody which covers registration, personal hygiene, clothing and bedding, food, exercise and sport, medical services, discipline and punishment, instruments of restraint, information to and complaints by prisoners, contact with the outside world, books, religion, retentions of prisoners’ property, notification of death, illness, transfer, removal of prisoners, institutional personnel and inspection of facilities. It also sets out guidelines for prisoners under sentence which further includes treatment, classification and individualisation, privileges, work, educations and recreations, and social relations and after-care. There are also special provisions for insane and mentally abnormal prisoners, prisoners under arrest or awaiting trial, civil prisoners and persons arrested or detained without charge.\n\nThe European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment entered into force on 1 March 2002. The Convention establishes the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (the Committee). The Committee is permitted to visit all places of detention, defined by the convention as \"any place within its jurisdiction where persons are deprived of their liberty by a public authority.\" Once a state government is notified of the intention of the Committee to carry out a visit it is required to allow access to the territory with the right to free travel without restriction, full information of the facility in question, unlimited access to the facility and free movement within it, the right to interview any person being held within the facility, communicate freely with any person whom it believes can supply relevant information and access to any other information which the Committee feels is necessary to carry out its task. All information gathered is confidential. In exceptional circumstances a state may make representations based on grounds of national defence, public safety, serious disorder in custodial facilities against a visit to a certain place or at a certain time. After each visit a report is drawn up with any possible suggestions to the state in question.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force on 30 March 2007 and has 154 state parties. The Convention’s purpose is to \"promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities, and to promote respect for their inherent dignity.\" Persons with disabilities are defined as those \"who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments which in interaction with various barriers may hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others.\"\" Article 13 of the Convention relates to access to justice for persons with disability. It provides that in order to \"ensure effective access to justice for persons with disabilities, States Parties shall promote appropriate training for those working in the field of administration of justice, including police and prison staff.\" \n\nGuantanamo Bay\n\nThe American government has been accused of many breaches of prisoners’ rights in international law. The most publicized case is the detention facility it maintains in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The American government claimed that the facility was not covered by the Geneva Conventions protecting prisoners of war as the detainees were ‘enemy combatants’. Regardless of the status accorded to detainees, international law still prohibits torture. It is now clear that the CIA allowed water boarding which is not only a breach of international law but also the American Army Field Manual which prohibits cruel, humiliating or degrading treatment.\n\nAfghanistan\n\nIn Afghanistan, US soldiers are accused of abusing prisoners in a secret prison in Bagram Air Base. The prisoners held there were exposed to extreme temperatures, not given adequate food, bedding, or natural light and religious duties were interfered with. There are also claims of abuse in Shebarghan prison in northern Afghanistan for which America is jointly responsible with the Afghan government. Shebarghan prison is claimed to be overcrowded with inadequate bathing and ablution facilities, as well as lack of food and medical care.\n\nIraq\n\nIn 2003, accusations started to emerge of prisoner abuse in Abu Ghraib prison. US soldiers at Abu Ghraib prison serving there were accused of beating prisoners, forcing prisoners to strip, forcing prisoners to masturbate, threatening prisoners with dogs, smearing prisoners with faeces, making prisoners simulate sex and form naked piles. There was also accusations that prisoners were raped, sodomised and beaten to death.\n"}
{"id": "12812106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12812106", "title": "Ralfonso Gschwend", "text": "Ralfonso Gschwend\n\nRalfonso \"Ralf\" Gschwend ( born April 29, 1959) is a Swiss kinetic sculptor.\nRalfonso received his undergraduate education both in Europe (Schule Schloss Salem, Abitur 1979) and in the United States (USC, Los Angeles, California, BS 1983). He continued his formal education at the Wharton School of Finance (MBA, 1985).\n\nWhile working in the real estate field in San Francisco, shortly after receiving his MBA, he began a series of kinetic sculpture drawings, which later served as the basis for his large kinetic sculptures in public places.\n\nHe is a designer of environmentally interactive, kinetic, light and sound sculptures (sculptures that interact with the environment such as wind, water, etc.). Since 1999 he specializes in the design and execution of large to monumental kinetic sculptures for public places from his studios in West Palm Beach, Florida, USA and Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nSculpture designs range in size from 2 ft to 180 ft. Sculptures have been exhibited or installed in Switzerland, Russia, \n\nWith his passion for Kinetic Art, as president from its inception, he co-founded the Kinetic Art Organization (KAO) www.kinetic-art.org in 2001 with a German and a US fellow Kinetic Artist. Now, with more than 1,000 members in over 60 Countries around the world, KAO has become the largest kinetic art organization in the world. KAO has co-organized Kinetic Art Exhibitions, such as the ART IN MOTION in The Netherlands, St. Petersburg, Russia, \nIn 2006 he established the first kinetic art website in China called KAO CHINA, dedicated to bringing kinetic art to China. Currently he is helping to establish the first Kinetic Art curriculum at the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing.\n\nAs an award winner of the Beijing City Sculpture Competition 2007 and a finalist for the \"Contest of Landscape Sculpture Designs for Beijing 2008 Olympic Games\",</ref> Ralfonso was invited to speak at \"Olympic Culture and Public Art Conference\". His speech and Dissertation was entitled \"Kinetic Art and to Olympic Union of All People\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14967273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14967273", "title": "Regenerative design", "text": "Regenerative design\n\nRegenerative design is a process-oriented whole systems approach to design. The term \"regenerative\" describes processes that restore, renew or revitalize their own sources of energy and materials. Regenerative design uses whole systems thinking to create resilient and equitable systems that integrate the needs of society with the integrity of nature. \n\nDesigners use systems thinking, applied permaculture design principles, and community development processes to design human and ecological systems. The development of regenerative design has been influenced by approaches found in the biomimicry, biophilic design, ecological economics, circular economics. As well as social movements such as permaculture, transition and the new economy. Regenerative design can also refer to process of designing systems such as restorative justice, rewilding and regenerative agriculture.\n\nA new generation of designers are applying ecologically inspired design to agriculture, architecture, community planning, cities, enterprises, economics and ecosystem regeneration. Many designers use the resilient models observed in systems ecology in their design process and recognize that ecosystems are resilient largely because they operate in closed loop systems. Using this model regenerative design seeks feedback at every stage of the design process. Feedback loops are an integral to regenerative systems as understood by processes used in restorative practice and community development.\n\nRegenerative design is interconnected with the approaches of systems thinking and with New Economy movement. The 'new economy' considers that the current economic system needs to be restructured. The theory is based on the assumption that people and the planet should come first, and that it is human well-being, not economic growth, which should be prioritized. \n\nWhereas the highest aim of sustainable development is to satisfy fundamental human needs today without compromising the possibility of future generations to satisfy theirs, the goal of regenerative design is to develop restorative systems that are dynamic and emergent, and are beneficial for humans and other species. This regeneration process is participatory, iterative and individual to the community and environment it is applied to. This process intends to revitalize communities, human and natural resources, and for some, society as a whole. \n\nIn recent years regenerative design is made possible on a larger scale using open source socio- technicle platforms and technological systems as used in SMART cities. It is an includes community and city development processes like gathering feedback, participatory governance, sortition and participatory budgeting.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, John T. Lyle (1934–1998), a landscape architecture professor, challenged graduate students to envision a community in which daily activities were based on the value of living within the limits of available renewable resources without environmental degradation. Over the next few decades an eclectic group of students, professors and experts from around the world and crossing many disciplines developed designs for an institute to be built at Cal Poly Pomona. In 1992 the Lyle Center for Regenerative Studies was built over two years and opened in 1994. In that same year Lyle's book \"Regenerative Design for Sustainable Development\" was published by Wiley. In 1995 Lyle worked with William McDonough at Oberlin College for the Adam Joseph Lewis Center for Environmental Studies completed in 2000. In 2002 McDonough's book, the more popular and successful, \"\" was published reiterating the concepts developed by Lyle.\n\nLyle saw the connection between concepts developed by Bob Rodale of the Rodale Institute for regenerative agriculture and the opportunity to develop regenerative systems for all other aspects of the world. While regenerative agriculture focused solely on agriculture, Lyle expanded its concepts and use to all systems. With regenerative agriculture, the concepts are very straight forward and simple but Lyle understood that when developing for other types of systems, more complicated ideas such as entropy and emergy must be taken into consideration.\n\nSwiss architect Walter R. Stahel developed approaches entirely similar to Lyle's also in the late 1970s but instead coined the term cradle-to-cradle design made popular by McDonough and Michael Braungart\n\nWhilst in 1974 David Holmgren and Bill Mollison first started working together to develop the theory and practice of permaculture. They met when Mollison spoke at a seminar at the Department of Environmental Design and began to work together. During their first three years together Mollison worked at applying their ideas, and Holmgren wrote the manuscript for what would become \"Permaculture One: a perennial agricultural system for human settlements\" as he completed his Environmental Design studies, and submitted it as the major reference for his thesis. He then handed the manuscript to Mollison for editing and additions, before it was published in 1978. \n\nThe term permaculture was developed and coined by David Holmgren, then a graduate student at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education's Department of Environmental Design, and Bill Mollison, senior lecturer in Environmental Psychology at University of Tasmania, in 1978. The word \"permaculture\" originally referred to \"permanent agriculture\", but was expanded to stand also for \"permanent culture\", as it was understood that social aspects were integral to a truly sustainable system as inspired by Masanobu Fukuoka’s natural farming philosophy. Regenerative design is integral to permaculture design.\n\nRegenerative and sustainable are essentially the same thing except for one key point: in a sustainable system, lost ecological systems are not returned to existence. In a regenerative system, those lost systems can ultimately begin \"regenerating\" back into existence. Put more simply regenerative systems work using regenerative feedback loops that allows for adaptability, dynamism and emergence to create and develop resilient systems than the idea that we need to a sustain the world the way we (humans) found it, now and into the future.\n\nThere is also a linguistic problem with the word \"sustainable\", which in the strict sense is meant to mean \"self-sustaining\". Because the word root \"sustain\" means \"last\" or \"endure,\" the general public and even many non-experts in the industry define the word only as \"able to last\" or \"the capacity to endure.\" In popular usage by designers and product manufacturers, \"sustainable\" has become a relative term referring to any material, process or product (including a building) which is less toxic or environmental harmful than those conventionally used. A product that contains 75% recycled material is often considered \"sustainable\", but is in fact merely MORE sustainable than a comparable product that contains no recycled material. A truly sustainable material would be one made of 100% recycled material that can, in turn, be completely recycled into a comparable new material or product. This is rarely the case.\n\n\"Regenerative\" also suffers from a slightly different linguistic problem, the term is still competing with the biological community in terms of its use for the re-growth of limbs etc.. However once the word itself gains wide usage, its meaning becomes more general, much like in the case of the term \"sustainable\". The base meaning of \"re-generative\" means the \"capacity to bring into existence again.\" So if an item or system is regenerative the item or system has the capacity to bring itself into existence again. Using the example above, a truly regenerative product would not only be 100% recycled and recyclable, but it would also improve the environmental conditions at the factory where it was made, the business where it was used and so on throughout its life-cycle (creating habitat, filtering water, catalyzing nitrogen-fixation processes in the soil, etc.).\n\nRegenerative design places more importance on conservation and biodiversity rather than on preservation. It is recognized in regenerative design that humans are a part of natural ecosystems. To exclude people is to create dense areas that destroy pockets of existing ecosystems while preserving pockets of ecosystems without allowing them to change naturally over time. By incorporating people into ecosystems all inputs are pulled from local areas and all outputs are accounted for creating a waste-less system. \n\nRegenerative farming or 'regenerative agriculture' calls for the creation of demand on agricultural systems to produce food in a way that is beneficial to the production and the ecology of the environment. It uses the science of systems ecology, and the design and application through permaculture. As understanding of its benefits to human biology and ecological systems that sustain us is increased as has the demand for organic food. Organic food grown using regenerative and permaculture design increases the biodiversity and is used to develop business models that regenerate communities. Whereas some foods are organic some are not strictly regenerative because it is not clearly seeking to maximize biodiversity and the resilience of the environment and the workforce. Regenerative agriculture grows organic produce through ethical supply chains, zero waste policies, fair wages, staff development and wellbeing, and in some cases cooperative and social enterprise models. It seeks to benefit the staff along the supply chain, customers, and ecosystems with the outcome of human and ecological restoration and regeneration.\n\nThe size of the regenerative system effects the complexity of the design process. The smaller a system is designed the more likely it is to be resilient and regenerative. Multiple small regenerative systems that are put together to create larger regenerative systems help to create supplies for multiple human-inclusive-ecological systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "38147824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38147824", "title": "Revue virtuelle", "text": "Revue virtuelle\n\nRevue virtuelle (1992-1996) was an exhibition project for early new media, virtual art technologies, computer graphics, virtual reality, hypermedia and digital art projects that was housed in the Musée National d'Art Moderne, Centre Pompidou during the years 1992 to 1996.\n\nThe Revue virtuelle also created a virtual \"magazine\" jointly created by the museum and the Centre de Création Industrielle, that addressed the issue of new technologies from the viewpoints of science, aesthetics, museography and education. These activities were documented in a bilingual CD-ROM entitled \"L'Actualité du Virtuel/Actualizing the Virtual\", published in 1996.\n\nLecture: Edmond Couchot - 15 April 1992\n\nExhibition: 17 June - 11 October 1992\nLecture: Anne-Marie Duguet - 23 September 1992\n\nExhibition: 9 December 1992 - 24 January 1993\nLecture: Scott S Fisher - 9 December 1992\n\nExhibition: 3 March - 2 May 1993\nLecture: Karl Sims - 4 March 1993\n\nExhibition: 2 June - 19 September 1993\nLecture: Derrick de Kerckhove - 3 June 1993\n\nExhibition: 13 October 1993 - 2 January 1994\nLecture: Philippe de Reffye - 13 October 1993\n\nExhibition: 2 March - 2 May 1994\nLecture: Dr. Karl Heinz Höhne - 7 April 1994\n\nExhibition: 6 July - 26 September 1994\nLecture: Alain Le Diberder, Matt Mullican, Florian Rötzer - 14 September 1994\n\nExhibition: 9 November 1994 - 23 January 1995\nLecture: George Legrady, Pierre Lévy, Nam June Paik - 9 November 1994\n\nLecture: Friedrich Kittler, Geert Lovink - 31 May 1995\n\nLecture: Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofido - 18 October 1995\n\nLecture: Siegfried Zielinski, Knowbotic Research (Christian Hübler and Yvonne Wilhelm) - 31 January 1996\n\nLecture: Jean-Marie Schaeffer - 23 February 1996\n\nLecture: Akira Asada, Toshiharu Itoh - 24 June 1996\n\n"}
{"id": "31080143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31080143", "title": "S (set theory)", "text": "S (set theory)\n\nS is an axiomatic set theory set out by George Boolos in his 1989 article, \"Iteration Again\". S, a first-order theory, is two-sorted because its ontology includes “stages” as well as sets. Boolos designed S to embody his understanding of the “iterative conception of set“ and the associated iterative hierarchy. S has the important property that all axioms of Zermelo set theory \"Z\", except the axiom of extensionality and the axiom of choice, are theorems of S or a slight modification thereof.\n\nAny grouping together of mathematical, abstract, or concrete objects, however formed, is a \"collection\", a synonym for what other set theories refer to as a class. The things that make up a collection are called elements or members. A common instance of a collection is the domain of discourse of a first-order theory. \n\nAll sets are collections, but there are collections that are not sets. A synonym for collections that are not sets is proper class. An essential task of axiomatic set theory is to distinguish sets from proper classes, if only because mathematics is grounded in sets, with proper classes relegated to a purely descriptive role.\n\nThe Von Neumann universe implements the “iterative conception of set” by stratifying the universe of sets into a series of \"stages\", with the sets at a given stage being possible members of the sets formed at all higher stages. The notion of stage goes as follows. Each stage is assigned an ordinal number. The lowest stage, stage 0, consists of all entities having no members. We assume that the only entity at stage 0 is the empty set, although this stage would include any urelements we would choose to admit. Stage \"n\", \"n\">0, consists of all possible sets formed from elements to be found in any stage whose number is less than \"n\". Every set formed at stage \"n\" can also be formed at every stage greater than \"n\".\n\nHence the stages form a nested and well-ordered sequence, and would form a hierarchy if set membership were transitive. The iterative conception has gradually become more accepted, despite an imperfect understanding of its historical origins.\n\nThe iterative conception of set steers clear, in a well-motivated way, of the well-known paradoxes of Russell, Burali-Forti, and Cantor. These paradoxes all result from the unrestricted use of the principle of comprehension of naive set theory. Collections such as \"the class of all sets\" or \"the class of all ordinals\" include sets from all stages of the iterative hierarchy. Hence such collections cannot be formed at any given stage, and thus cannot be sets.\n\nThis section follows Boolos (1998: 91). The variables \"x\" and \"y\" range over sets, while \"r\", \"s\", and \"t\" range over stages. There are three primitive two-place predicates:\n\nThe axioms below include a defined two-place set-stage predicate, \"Bxr\", which abbreviates:\n\"Bxr\" is read as “set \"x\" is formed before stage \"r\".”\n\nIdentity, denoted by infix ‘=’, does not play the role in S it plays in other set theories, and Boolos does not make fully explicit whether the background logic includes identity. S has no axiom of extensionality and identity is absent from the other S axioms. Identity does appear in the axiom schema distinguishing S+ from S, and in the derivation in S of the pairing, null set, and infinity axioms of Z.\n\nThe symbolic axioms shown below are from Boolos (1998: 91), and govern how sets and stages behave and interact. The natural language versions of the axioms are intended to aid the intuition.\nThe axioms come in two groups of three. The first group consists of axioms pertaining solely to stages and the stage-stage relation ‘<’.\n\nTra: formula_2\n\nA consequence of \"Net\" is that every stage is earlier than some stage.\n\nInf: formula_3\n\nEvery set is formed at some stage in the hierarchy.\n\nWhen: formula_4\n\nA set is formed at some stage iff its members are formed at earlier stages.\n\nLet \"A\"(\"y\") be a formula of S where \"y\" is free but \"x\" is not. Then the following axiom schema holds:\n\nSpec: formula_5\n\nIf there exists a stage \"r\" such that all sets satisfying \"A\"(\"y\") are formed at a stage earlier than \"r\", then there exists a set \"x\" whose members are just those sets satisfying \"A\"(\"y\"). The role of \"Spec\" in S is analogous to that of the axiom schema of specification of Z.\n\nBoolos’s name for Zermelo set theory minus extensionality was \"Z-\". Boolos derived in S all axioms of \"Z-\" except the axiom of choice. The purpose of this exercise was to show how most of conventional set theory can be derived from the iterative conception of set, assumed embodied in S. Extensionality does not follow from the iterative conception, and so is not a theorem of S. However, S + Extensionality is free of contradiction if S is free of contradiction.\n\nBoolos then altered \"Spec\" to obtain a variant of S he called S+, such that the axiom schema of replacement is derivable in S+ + Extensionality. Hence S+ + Extensionality has the power of ZF. Boolos also argued that the axiom of choice does not follow from the iterative conception, but did not address whether Choice could be added to S in some way. Hence S+ + Extensionality cannot prove those theorems of the conventional set theory ZFC whose proofs require Choice.\n\nInf guarantees the existence of stages ω, and of ω + \"n\" for finite \"n\", but not of stage ω + ω. Nevertheless, S yields enough of Cantor's paradise to ground almost all of contemporary mathematics.\n\nBoolos compares S at some length to a variant of the system of Frege’s \"Grundgesetze\", in which Hume's principle, taken as an axiom, replaces Frege’s Basic Law V, an unrestricted comprehension axiom which made Frege's system inconsistent; see Russell's paradox.\n\n"}
{"id": "167148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167148", "title": "Satyagraha", "text": "Satyagraha\n\nSatyagraha (; satya: \"\"truth\", graha: \"insistence\" or \"holding firmly to\"\") or holding onto truth\"\" or truth force – is a particular form of nonviolent resistance or civil resistance. Someone who practices satyagraha is a satyagrahi.\n\nThe term \"satyagraha\" was coined and developed by Mahatma Gandhi (1869–1948). He deployed satyagraha in the Indian independence movement and also during his earlier struggles in South Africa for Indian rights. Satyagraha theory influenced Martin Luther King Jr.'s and James Bevel's campaigns during the Civil Rights Movement in the United States, and many other social justice and similar movements.\n\nThe term originated in a competition in the news-sheet \"Indian Opinion\" in South Africa in 1906. Mr. Maganlal Gandhi, grandson of an uncle of Gandhi, came up with the word \"Sadagraha\" and won the prize. Subsequently, to make it clearer, Gandhi changed it to Satyagraha. \"Satyagraha\" is a tatpuruṣaya compound of the Sanskrit words \"satya\" (meaning \"truth\") and \"agraha\" (\"polite insistence\", or \"holding firmly to\"). Satya is derived from the word “sat”, which means “being”. Nothing is or exists in reality except Truth. In the context of satyagraha, Truth therefore includes a) Truth in speech, as opposed to falsehood, b) what is real, as opposed to nonexistent (asat) and c) good as opposed to evil, or bad. This was critical to Gandhi’s understanding of and faith in nonviolence: \"The world rests upon the bedrock of satya or truth. Asatya, meaning untruth, also means nonexistent, and satya or truth also means that which is. If untruth does not so much as exist, its victory is out of the question. And truth being that which is, can never be destroyed. This is the doctrine of satyagraha in a nutshell.\" \nFor Gandhi, satyagraha went far beyond mere \"passive resistance\" and became strength in practising non-violent methods. In his words:\nIn September 1935, a letter to P. K. Rao, Servants of India Society, Gandhi disputed the proposition that his idea of Civil Disobedience was adapted from the writings of Henry David Thoreau especially \"Civil Disobedience\" of 1849.\nGandhi described it as follows:\n\nGandhi distinguished between satyagraha and passive resistance in the following letter:\nIt is important to note the intrinsic connection between ahinsa and satyagraha. Satyagraha is sometimes used to refer to the whole principle of nonviolence, where it is essentially the same as ahimsa, and sometimes used in a “marked” meaning to refer specifically to direct action that is largely obstructive, for example in the form of civil disobedience.\n\nGandhi says:\nAssessing the extent to which Gandhi's ideas of satyagraha were or were not successful in the Indian independence struggle is a complex task. Judith Brown has suggested that \"this is a political strategy and technique which, for its outcomes, depends of historical specificities.\" The view taken by Gandhi differs from the idea that the goal in any conflict is necessarily to defeat the opponent or frustrate the opponent’s objectives, or to meet one’s own objectives despite the efforts of the opponent to obstruct these. In satyagraha, by contrast, “The Satyagrahi’s object is to convert, not to coerce, the wrong-doer.” The opponent must be converted, at least as far as to stop obstructing the just end, for this cooperation to take place. There are cases, to be sure, when an opponent, for e.g. a dictator, has to be unseated and one cannot wait to convert him. The satyagrahi would count this a partial success.\n\nThe theory of satyagraha sees means and ends as inseparable. The means used to obtain an end are wrapped up in and attached to that end. Therefore, it is contradictory to try to use unjust means to obtain justice or to try to use violence to obtain peace. As Gandhi wrote: “They say, 'means are, after all, means'. I would say, 'means are, after all, everything'. As the means so the end...”\n\nGandhi used an example to explain this:\nGandhi rejected the idea that injustice should, or even could, be fought against “by any means necessary” – if you use violent, coercive, unjust means, whatever ends you produce will necessarily embed that injustice. To those who preached violence and called nonviolent actionists cowards, he replied: “I do believe that, where there is only a choice between cowardice and violence, I would advise violence...I would rather have India resort to arms in order to defend her honour than that she should, in a cowardly manner, become or remain a helpless witness to her own dishonour...But I believe that nonviolence is infinitely superior to violence, forgiveness is more manly than punishment.”\n\nThe essence of satyagraha is that it seeks to eliminate antagonisms without harming the antagonists themselves, as opposed to violent resistance, which is meant to cause harm to the antagonist. A satyagrahi therefore does not seek to end or destroy the relationship with the antagonist, but instead seeks to transform or “purify” it to a higher level. A euphemism sometimes used for satyagraha is that it is a “silent force” or a “soul force” (a term also used by Martin Luther King Jr. during his famous “I Have a Dream” speech). It arms the individual with moral power rather than physical power. Satyagraha is also termed a “universal force,” as it essentially “makes no distinction between kinsmen and strangers, young and old, man and woman, friend and foe.”\n\nGandhi contrasted satyagraha (holding on to truth) with “duragraha” (holding on by force), as in protest meant more to harass than enlighten opponents. He wrote: “There must be no impatience, no barbarity, no insolence, no undue pressure. If we want to cultivate a true spirit of democracy, we cannot afford to be intolerant. Intolerance betrays want of faith in one's cause.”\n\nCivil disobedience and non-cooperation as practised under satyagraha are based on the “law of suffering”, a doctrine that the endurance of suffering is a means to an end. This end usually implies a moral upliftment or progress of an individual or society. Therefore, the non-cooperation of satyagraha is in fact a means to secure the cooperation of the opponent that is consistent with truth and justice.\n\nWhen using satyagraha in a large-scale political conflict involving civil disobedience, Gandhi believed that the satyagrahis must undergo training to ensure discipline. He wrote that it is “only when people have proved their active loyalty by obeying the many laws of the State that they acquire the right of Civil Disobedience.”\n\nHe therefore made part of the discipline that satyagrahis:\n\nThis obedience has to be not merely grudging, but extraordinary:\nGandhi envisioned satyagraha as not only a tactic to be used in acute political struggle, but as a universal solvent for injustice and harm.\n\nHe founded the Sabarmati Ashram to teach satyagraha. He asked satyagrahis to follow the following principles (Yamas described in Yoga Sutra):\nOn another occasion, he listed these rules as “essential for every Satyagrahi in India”:\n\nGandhi proposed a series of rules for satyagrahis to follow in a resistance campaign:\n\nSatyagraha theory also influenced many other movements of nonviolence and civil resistance. For example, Martin Luther King Jr. wrote in his autobiography about Gandhi's influence on his developing ideas regarding the Civil Rights Movement in the United States:\n\nIn view of the Nazi persecution of the Jews in Germany, Gandhi offered satyagraha as a method of combating oppression and genocide, stating:\n\nWhen Gandhi was criticized for these statements, he responded in another article entitled “Some Questions Answered”:\n\nIn a similar vein, anticipating a possible attack on India by Japan during World War II, Gandhi recommended satyagraha as a means of national defense (what is now sometimes called \"Civilian Based Defense (CBD) or \"social defence\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "18440919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18440919", "title": "Society reporting", "text": "Society reporting\n\nIn journalism, the society page of a newspaper is largely or entirely devoted to the social and cultural events and gossip of the location covered. Other features that frequently appear on the society page are a calendar of charity events and pictures of locally, nationally and internationally famous people.\n\nThe first true society page in the United States was the invention of newspaper owner James Gordon Bennett Jr., who created it for the \"New York Herald\" in 1835. His reportage centred upon the lives and social gatherings of the rich and famous, with names partially deleted by dashes and reports mildly satirical. Mott et al record that \"Society was at first aghast, then amused, then complacent, and finally hungry for the penny-press stories of its own doings.\" Bennett had in fact been reporting such news since 1827, with articles in the \"New York Enquirer\". In the period after the United States Civil War, there were many newly rich people in the country, and reportage of their antics, sometimes tasteless and gauche, was of considerable entertainment value. By 1885, Ward McAllister had been recruited to report on society news for the \"New York World\" by Joseph Pulitzer, and it was around that time that society reporting, both on dedicated society pages and in the new Sunday supplements, became very popular.\n\nSociety pages and society reporting was prevalent in the New York daily newspapers from the winter of 1880 onward. The previous year, Pearl Rivers had transplanted the notion to New Orleans, where she had begun the \"Society Bee\", a local society column, on March 16, 1879. Again, the initial reaction was shock. Rivers reported, in the \"Society Bee\" itself of course, the reaction of one woman who was, \"opposed to print on principle.\" Print applied to persons is her special horror and abomination … poison only fit for politics, Associated Press dispatches, and police reports. She thought me very wrong to mention any ladies' names in a newspaper. She said [that] it was 'shabby' and 'shoddy' and 'shameful'.\". But Rivers persevered, and a decade later, on November 2, 1890, the column, now entitled simply \"Society\", was the largest part of the Sunday paper carrying it.\n\nBy 1900, most daily newspapers had a woman's page The covered local high society, as well as fashion. The goal in any case was to attract women as readers, and attract subscribers by promising a new audience for consumer advertising. Women's pages in general covered issues intended to attract the readership of the stereotypical American housewife of the time: society news, fashion, food, relationships, etiquette, health, homemaking, interior decorating, and family issues. One of the most prominent leaders was Marjorie Paxson. She began her career for a wire service during World War I, when male reporters were scarce. When they returned she went to the women's page in Houston, Texas. In the 1950s she moved to women's section of the 'Miami Herald,' Which was nationally renowned for its women's page. She became women's page editor at the 'St. Petersburg Times' in 1969. She was elected national president of Theta Sigma Phi, now Association for Women in Communications, in 1963. She went on to become the fourth female publisher in the Gannett newspaper chain. After 1970, however, gender segregation faded and the term \"woman's page\" fell out of fashion. Women in journalism then moved from covering teas and bridal veils to abortion, abuse and feminism:. \n\nIn Britain, society news was at the same time emerging in the British press as part of \"women's journalism\", again aimed at attracting a female readership. It was also, in both the U.S. and Britain, largely the province of women journalists, and considered subordinate. For example: Society news, in the late 19th century, was not sent to the newspapers by reporters via the telegraph, as other news was, because that was considered too expensive for mere society reporting. Society journalists instead sent their reports by ordinary mail. Dix Harwood, author of the 1927 journalism textbook \"Getting and Writing News\", stated that society reporting rarely enjoyed much dignity.\n\nDespite the growth in popularity in the 1880s, many \"serious\" newspapers were initially cautious about society reporting. For example, the \"Ottawa Journal\" didn't permit Florence Randal, its first society reporter, to do anything but recite simple chronicles of the dowagers and debutantes of the city. The staff at the \"Globe\", whose society column began in 1893, considered society news to be \"horrid vulgar stuff\", according to the \"Globe\"'s editor Melville Hammond, and its publication was not well received by its subjects: \"high Society matrons [who were] unused to the publicizing of private life\".\n\nWilloughby Cummings ( Emily Ann McCausland), worked as a press journalist and the first society editor of the \"Toronto Globe\" under the pen name of \"Sama\". Under her stewardship, the \"Toronto Globe\" expanded its society coverage from weekly notes to a daily column in three years. In 1900, she became editor of \"Woman's Sphere\", a department of the \"Canadian Magazine\". She worked on behalf of the poor and afflicted and served as an official of various societies. In 1902, for example, she became the corresponding secretary for the National Council of Women of Canada.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, society reporting was seen as largely the province of female journalists. The \"women's pages\" were written by women. Indeed, in the 19th century in many newspapers, particularly smaller ones, the only women on the paper's staff at all were those who covered society news. Dix Harwood claimed that the society desk, and the woman who ran it, was nonetheless important:\n\nTypical topics were \"Miss Emily Bissell as a Turkish Girl\", \"Chicago Tribune\", Jan 1, 1900 or \"Maryland Society Belle Was Fair Senorita at Ball\", \"Times-Picayune\", Feb 7, 1916.\n\nMale reporters were unwilling to cover such things. As Morton Sontheimer stated in 1941, \"The women's department jobs almost invariably go to women, not because men can't do them but because they won't.\" (\"Newspaperman\", pp. 228). One such reporter who refused to do the job even though it had been handed to him was Gordon Sinclair, of the \"Toronto Star\".\n\nSinclair got the job of woman's page editor after Clifford Wallace, its previous editor, had begged to be relieved of the job. Wallace, the first male woman's page editor of the \"Star\" and nicknamed \"Nellie\" because of that, had been given the job as the result of the proprietor's wife, Mrs Atkinson, regarding the women who had previously run the women's desk as \"a menace\". In 1922, the managing editor reassigned the position from Wallace to Sinclair. Sinclair treated the position with utter contempt. He later wrote:\n"}
{"id": "31544633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31544633", "title": "Stratum Pier", "text": "Stratum Pier\n\nStratum Pier is an interactive overlook by American artist Kendall Buster. The functional sculpture is located at the Indianapolis Museum of Art's .\n\nBased on a section of a topographical map of 100 Acres the artwork consists of emerald green layered platforms that are shaped in a flowing organic manner along the south side of the sculpture parks lake. The artwork consists of fiberglass grids that sit upon a support system made of steel. The support system sits at varied heights. Visitors are welcome to walk on, sit, fish at and explore the structure, which is occasionally non-accessible due to flooding.\n\n\"Stratum Pier\" was created to appear as if it is an extension of the shoreline, exhibiting artist Kendall Buster's desire to merge \"the natural and the built environment.\" A visit to the structure allows one to view the cycles of erosion and growth in the 100 Acres environment, cycles that are represented in \"Stratum Pier\"s layered build. Fiberglass was chosen due to its light weight allowing it to easily sit in its present location and its durability which allows for heavy use by visitors to the park. Buster started to design the piece after a visit to the park and inspiration from the topographical maps created to document the parks environment. Buster expects the work to merge with the landscape as the grass and brush that surrounds the area grows into the work.\n\nBuster worked with architect Jeremy Olsen of Wheeler Kearns and project engineer Chris Rockey of Rockey Structures to create the piece. The artwork was commissioned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art and funded by a grant from The Indianapolis Foundation. In June 2010 Indianapolis based Motus Dance Theatre performed one day, every 45 minutes, on \"Stratum Pier\" in response to the installation and to celebrate the opening of the park.\n\nBefore pursuing fine art, Kendall Buster obtained her degree in medical technology, then moved on to earning her BFA at the Corcoran College of Art and Design. After receiving her MFA from Yale University she was involved in the Whitney Museum of American Art's Independent Study Studio Program. Buster's work is described as \"biological architecture\" and resides in the collections of the Kreeger Museum, the Kemper Museum, Hirshhorn Museum, among others. She has been commissioned to create public art for the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Markel Corporation, the BOK Center, Nevada Museum of Art, and many others. In 2005 Buster was awarded an American Academy of Arts and Letters Award in the Arts. Teaching at Virginia Commonwealth University, she lives and works in Richmond, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41764", "title": "Survivability", "text": "Survivability\n\nSurvivability is the ability to remain alive or continue to exist. The term has more specific meaning in certain contexts.\nFollowing disruptive forces such as flood, fire, disease, war, or climate change some species of flora, fauna, and local life forms are likely to survive more successfully than others because of consequent changes to their surrounding biophysical conditions.\n\nIn engineering, survivability is the quantified ability of a system, subsystem, equipment, process, or procedure to continue to function during and after a natural or man-made disturbance; for example a nuclear electromagnetic pulse from the detonation of a nuclear weapon.\n\nFor a given application, survivability must be qualified by specifying the range of conditions over which the entity will survive, the minimum acceptable level or post-disturbance functionality, and the maximum acceptable downtime.\n\nIn the military environment, survivability is defined as the ability to remain mission capable after a single engagement. Engineers working in survivability are often responsible for improving four main system elements: \n\n\nThe European Survivability Workshop introduced the concept of \"Mission Survivability\" whilst retaining the three core areas above, either pertaining to the \"survivability\" of a platform through a complete mission, or the \"survivability\" of the mission itself (i.e. probability of mission success). Recent studies have also introduced the concept of \"Force Survivability\" which relates to the ability of a force rather than an individual platform to remain \"mission capable\".\n\nThere is no clear prioritisation of the three elements; this will depend on the characteristics and role of the platform. Some platform types, such as submarines and airplanes, minimise their susceptibility and may, to some extent, compromise in the other areas. Main Battle Tanks minimise vulnerability through the use of heavy armours. Present day surface warship designs tend to aim for a balanced combination of all three areas.\n\nSurvivability denotes the ability of a ship and its on-board systems to remain functional and continue designated mission in a man-made hostile environment. The naval vessels are designed to operate in a man-made hostile environment, and therefore the survivability is a vital feature required from them. The naval vessel’s survivability is a complicated subject affecting the whole life cycle of the vessel, and should be considered from the initial design phase of every war ship.\n\nThe classical definition of naval survivability includes three main aspects, which are susceptibility, vulnerability, and recoverability; although, recoverability is often subsumed within vulnerability.\nSusceptibility consists of all the factors that expose the ship to the weapons effects in a combat environment. These factors in general are the operating conditions, the threat, and the features of the ship itself. The operating conditions, such as sea state, weather and atmospheric conditions, vary considerably, and their influence is difficult to address (hence they are often not accounted for in survivability assessment). The threat is dependent on the weapons directed against the ship and weapon’s performance, such as the range. The features of the ship in this sense include platform signatures (radar, infrared, acoustic, magnetic), the defensive systems on board, such as surface-to-air missiles, EW and decoys, and also the tactics employed by the platform in countering the attack (aspects such as speed, maneuverability, chosen aspect presented to the threat).\nVulnerability refers to the ability of the vessel to withstand the short-term effects of the threat weapon. Vulnerability is an attribute typical to the vessel and therefore heavily\naffected by the vessel’s basic characteristics such as size, subdivision, armouring, and other hardening features, and also the design of the ship's systems, in particular the location of equipment, degrees of redundancy and separation, and the presence within a system of single point failures. Recoverability refers to vessel’s ability to restore and maintain its functionality after sustaining damage. Thus, recoverability is dependent on the actions aimed to neutralize the effects of the damage. These actions include firefighting, limiting the extent of flooding, and dewatering. Besides the equipment, the crew also has a vital role in recoverability.\n\nThe crews of military combat vehicles face numerous lethal hazards which are both diverse and constantly evolving. Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), mines, and enemy fire are examples of such persistent and variable threats. Historically, measures taken to mitigate these hazards were concerned with protecting the vehicle itself, but due to this achieving only limited protection, the focus has now shifted to safeguarding the crew within from an ever-broadening range of threats, including Radio Controlled IEDs (RCIEDs), blast, fragmentation, heat stress, and dehydration.\n\nThe expressed goal of \"crew survivability\" is to ensure vehicle occupants are best protected. It goes beyond simply ensuring crew have the appropriate protective equipment and has expanded to include measuring the overpressure and blunt impact forces experienced by a vehicle from real blast incidents in order to develop medical treatment and improve overall crew survivability. Sustainable crew survivability is dependent on the effective integration of knowledge, training, and equipment:\n\nThreat intelligence identifying trends, emerging technologies, and attack tactics used by enemy forces enables crews to implement procedures that will reduce their exposure to unnecessary risks. Such intelligence also allows for more effective pre-deployment training programs where personnel can be taught the most up-to-date developments in IED concealment, for example, or undertake tailored training that will enable them to identify the likely attack strategy of enemy forces. In addition, with expert, current threat intelligence, the most effective equipment can be procured or rapidly developed in support of operations.\n\n\"The capability of a system to fulfill its mission, in a timely manner, in the presence of such as attacks or large-scale natural disasters. Survivability is a subset of resilience.\"\n\n“The capability of a system to fulfill its mission, in a timely manner, in the presence of attacks, failures, or accidents.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325028", "title": "Technological escalation", "text": "Technological escalation\n\nTechnological escalation describes the situation where two parties in competition tend to employ continual technological improvements in their attempt to defeat each other. Technology is defined here as a creative invention, either in the form of an object or a methodology. An example is the mutual escalation seen between e-mail spammers and the programmers of spam filters and other anti-spam techniques. Although escalation is usually meant negatively, if two companies are in an escalating competition to produce the best widget, the consumer benefits because they get a choice between better and better widgets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "751500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751500", "title": "Terrorist front organization", "text": "Terrorist front organization\n\nA terrorist front organization is created to conceal activities or provide logistical or financial support to the illegal activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31447", "title": "The Book of the Courtier", "text": "The Book of the Courtier\n\nThe Book of the Courtier ( ) is a courtesy book or book of manners which dealt with issues of etiquette, behaviour and morals, particularly at princely, or royal courts. Courtesy literature can be traced back to 13th century German and Italian writers. The \"Book of the Courtier\" was written by Baldassare Castiglione over the course of many years, beginning in 1508, and was ultimately published in 1528 by the Aldine Press in Venice just before his death. An English edition was published in 1561. \n\n\"The Book of the Courtier\" addresses the constitution of a perfect courtier, and in its last installment, a perfect lady. It takes the form of a Renaissance dialogue, a literary form that incorporated elements of drama, conversation, philosophy, and essay. Considered the definitive account of Renaissance court life, it is cited frequently, along with Stefano Guazzo's \"The civil conversation\" of 1574 and Giovanni Della Casa's \"Galateo \" of 1558, as an important resource on court life during the Italian Renaissance.\n\nThe book is organized as a series of fictional conversations that occur between the courtiers of the Duke of Urbino in 1507 (when Castiglione was in fact part of the Duke's Court). In the book, the courtier is described as having a cool mind, a good voice (with beautiful, elegant and brave words) along with proper bearing and gestures. At the same time though, the courtier is expected to have a warrior spirit, to be athletic, and have good knowledge of the humanities, Classics and fine arts. \nOver the course of four evenings, members of the court try to describe the perfect gentleman of the court. In the process they debate the nature of nobility, humor, women, and love.\n\n\"The Book of the Courtier\" was one of the most widely distributed books of the 16th century, with editions printed in six languages and in twenty European centers. The 1561 English translation by Thomas Hoby had a great influence on the English upper class's conception of English gentlemen. The Courtier enjoyed influence for some generations, not least in Elizabethan England following its first translation by Sir Thomas Hoby in 1561, a time when Italian culture was very much in fashion.\n\nOf the many qualities Castiglione’s characters attribute to their perfect courtier, oratory and the manner in which the courtier presents himself while speaking is amongst the most highly discussed. Wayne Rebhorn, a Castiglione scholar, states that the courtier’s speech and behavior in general is “designed to make people marvel at him, to transform himself into a beautiful spectacle for others to contemplate.\" As explained by Count Ludovico, the success of the courtier depends greatly on his reception by the audience from the first impression. This partly explains why the group considers the courtier's dress so vital to his success.\n\nCastiglione's characters opine about how their courtier can impress his audience and win its approval. Similar to the Classical Roman rhetoricians Cicero and Quintilian, Castiglione stresses the importance of delivery while speaking. In Book I, the Count states that when the courtier speaks he must have a “sonorous, clear, sweet and well sounding” voice that is neither too effeminate nor too rough and be “tempered by a calm face and with a play of the eyes that shall give an effect of grace.” (Castiglione 1.33) This grace, or \"grazia\", becomes an important element in the courtier’s appearance to the audience. Edoardo Saccone states in his analysis of Castiglione, “\"grazia\" consists of, or rather is obtained through, \"sprezzatura\".”\n\nAccording to the Count, \"sprezzatura\" is amongst one of the most important, if not the most important, rhetorical device the courtier needs. Peter Burke describes \"sprezzatura\" in \"The Book of the Courtier\" as “nonchalance”, “careful negligence”, and “effortless and ease.” The ideal courtier is someone who “conceals art, and presents what is done and said as if it was done without effort and virtually without thought.” (31).\n\nThe Count advocates the courtier engage in \"sprezzatura\", or this “certain nonchalance”, in all the activities he participates in, especially speech. In Book I, he states, \"Accordingly we may affirm that to be true art which does not appear to be art; nor to anything must we give greater care than to conceal art, for if it is discovered, it quite destroys our credit and brings us into small esteem.\" (Castiglione 1.26) The Count reasons that by obscuring his knowledge of letters, the courtier gives the appearance that his “orations were composed very simply” as if they sprang up from “nature and truth [rather] than from study and art.” (1.26). This much more natural appearance, even though it is not natural by any means, is more advantageous to the courtier.\n\nThe Count contends that if the courtier wants to attain \"grazia\" and be esteemed excellent, it would be in his best interest to have this appearance of nonchalance. By failing to employ \"sprezzatura\", he destroys his opportunity for grace. By applying \"sprezzatura\" to his speech and everything else he does, the courtier appears to have \"grazia\" and impresses his audience, thereby achieving excellence and perfection. (Saccone 16).\n\nAnother feature of rhetoric which Castiglione discusses is the role of written language and style. Castiglione declined to imitate Boccaccio and write in Tuscan Italian, as was customary at the time; instead he wrote in the Italian used in his native Lombardy (he was born near Mantua): as the Count says, “certainly it would require a great deal of effort on my part if in these discussions of ours I wished to use those old Tuscan words which the Tuscans of today have discarded; and what’s more I’m sure you would all laugh at me” (Courtier 70). Here, the use of the old and outdated Tuscan language is seen as a form of excess rather than a desirable trait. Castiglione states that had he followed Tuscan usage in his book, his description of sprezzatura would appear hypocritical, in that his effort would be seen as lacking in nonchalance (Courtier 71).\n\nFederico responds to the Count's assessment of the use of spoken language by posing the question as to what is the best language in which to write rhetoric. The Count’s response basically states that the language does not matter, but rather the style, authority, and grace of the work matters most (Courtier 71). Robert J. Graham, a Renaissance literary scholar, notes that “questions of whose language is privileged at any given historical moment are deeply implicated in matters of personal, social and cultural significance”, which he states is the primary reason for Castiglione’s usage of the native vernacular. This also illustrates the Count’s response on the relativity of language in Latin. With the role of language set, Castiglione begins to describe the style and authority in which the courtier must write in order to become successful.\n\nThe Count explains, \"it is right that greater pains would be taken to make what is written more polished and correct…they should be chosen from the most beautiful of those employed in speech\" (Courtier 71). This is where the style of which the courtier writes encourages the persuasiveness or successfulness of a speech. The success of a written speech, in contrast to the spoken speech, hinges on the notion that \"we are willing to tolerate a great deal of improper and even careless usage\" in oral rhetoric than written rhetoric. The Count explains that along with proper word usage, an ideal courtier must have a proper sense of style and flow to their words. These words must be factual yet entertaining as the Count states, “then, it is necessary to arrange what is to be said or written in its logical order, and after that to express it well in words that, if I am not mistaken, should be appropriate, carefully chosen, clear and well formed, but above all that are still in popular use\" (Courtier 77). This form of emphasis on language is noted by Graham as; \"Although the Count is aware that more traditional aspects of the orator (appearance, gestures, voice, etc.)…all this will be futile and of little consequence if the ideas conveyed by these words themselves are not witty or elegant to the requirements of the situation” (Graham 49).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6129269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6129269", "title": "Transport of structure", "text": "Transport of structure\n\nIn mathematics, transport of structure is the definition of a new structure on an object by reference to another object on which a similar structure already exists. Definitions by transport of structure are regarded as canonical.\n\nSince mathematical structures are often defined in reference to an underlying space, many examples of transport of structure involve spaces and mappings between them. For example, if \"V\" and \"W\" are vector spaces, and if formula_1 is an isomorphism, and if formula_2 is an inner product on formula_3, then we can define an inner product formula_4 on \"V\" by\nAlthough the equation makes sense even when formula_6 is not an isomorphism, it only defines an inner product on \"V\" when formula_6 is, since otherwise it will cause formula_8 to be degenerate. The idea is that formula_6 allows us to consider \"V\" and \"W\" as \"the same\" vector space, and if we follow this analogy, we can transport an inner product from one to the other.\n\nA more involved example comes from differential topology, in which we have the notion of a smooth manifold. If \"M\" is such a manifold, and if \"X\" is any topological space which is homeomorphic to \"M\", we can consider \"X\" as a smooth manifold as well. That is, let formula_10 be a homeomorphism; we must define coordinate charts on \"X\", which we will do by \"pulling back\" coordinate charts on \"M\" through formula_6. Recall that a coordinate chart on formula_12 is an open set \"U\" together with an injective map\nfor some \"n\"; to get such a chart on \"X\", we let\nFurthermore, it is required that the charts cover \"M\", we must check that the transported charts cover \"X\", which follows immediately from the fact that formula_6 is a bijection. Finally, since \"M\" is a \"smooth\" manifold, we have that if \"U\" and \"V\", with their maps\nare two charts on \"M\", then the composition, the \"transition map\"\nis smooth. We must check this for our transported charts on \"X\". We have\nand therefore\nTherefore the transition map for formula_24 and formula_25 is the same as that for \"U\" and \"V\", hence smooth. Therefore \"X\" is a smooth manifold via transport of structure.\n\nAlthough the second example involved considerably more checking, the principle was the same, and any experienced mathematician would have no difficulty performing the necessary verifications. Therefore when such an operation is indicated, it is invoked merely as \"transport of structure\" and the details left to the reader, if desired.\n\nThe second example also illustrates why \"transport of structure\" is not always desirable. Namely, we can take \"M\" to be the plane, and we can take \"X\" to be an infinite one-sided cone. By \"flattening\" the cone we achieve a homeomorphism of \"X\" and \"M\", and therefore the structure of a smooth manifold on \"X\", but the cone is not \"naturally\" a smooth manifold. That is, we can consider \"X\" as a subspace of 3-space, in which context it is not smooth at the cone point. A more surprising example is that of exotic spheres, discovered by Milnor, which states that there are exactly 28 smooth manifolds which are homeomorphic (but by definition \"not\" diffeomorphic) to formula_26, the 7-dimensional sphere in 8-space. Thus, transport of structure is most productive when there exists a canonical isomorphism between the two objects.\n"}
