{"id": "34060129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34060129", "title": "1836 U.S. Patent Office fire", "text": "1836 U.S. Patent Office fire\n\nThe December 15, 1836 U.S. Patent Office fire was the first of several disastrous fires the U.S. Patent Office has had in its history. An initial investigation considered the possibility of arson due to suspected corruption in the Post Office, which shared the same building, but it was later ruled out. The cause was ultimately determined to be accidental. This event is considered to be a turning point in the history of the Patent Office.\n\nLocal fire suppression efforts were incapable of preventing the damage due to lack of fire personnel and old equipment. Many patent documents and models from the preceding three decades were irretrievably lost. As a result of the fire, Congress and the newly legally revamped Patent Office changed the way it handled its recordkeeping, assigning numbers to patents and requiring multiple copies of supporting documentation.\n\nThe fire broke out at 3 a.m. on December 15. At that time the Patent Office was located in Blodget's Hotel, as was the fire department and the post office. Patent Office employees stored firewood in the basement of the hotel, near where postal employees disposed of the hot ashes from their fires. Sometime after midnight that morning the hot ashes ignited the firewood. The fire department's hose was old and defective and would not funnel the water onto the fire. All 10,000 patents and several thousand related patent models were destroyed.\n\nIn 1810, Congress had authorized the purchase of the unfinished Blodgett's Hotel from its builder to house the Post and Patent offices. Congress was aware of the fire risk. During the War of 1812, Superintendent Dr. William Thornton convinced members of the British expeditionary force to leave it standing while they burned the rest of the city. \"When the smoke cleared from the dreadful attack, the Patent Office was the only Government building . . . left untouched\" from the Burning of Washington.\n\nConsequently, a well-equipped fire station was located nearby. In 1820, \"Congress authorized the covering of the building with a slate roof and the purchase of a fire engine for its protection against fires.\" Unfortunately, the volunteer fire department lost its sense of purpose and was disbanded. In fact, a complete firehouse equipped with a fire engine was just down the street. Although equipped with a forcing pump and with riveted leather hose 1,000 feet (300 m) long (all purchased 16 years earlier by Act of Congress), there were no firefighters. Running a bucket brigade to put out the building blaze was totally ineffective.\n\nThe lost items included 168 folio volumes of records, 26 large portfolios of some nine thousand drawings, related descriptive patent documents, and miscellaneous paperwork. The 7,000 lost models included those of various textile manufacturing processes and several models of steam-powered machinery for propelling boats (including Robert Fulton's original bound folio of full-color patent drawings, done in his own hand). The Patent Office's own model-cases, press and seals, desks, book-cases and office furniture were also destroyed. The entirety of the library was lost, excepting only \"one book, volume VI of the Repertory of Arts and Manufactures (now in the Scientific Library of the Office), which an employee of the office happened to have taken to his home,\" against the office's rules. John Ruggles, chairman of the Senate investigating committee, wrote that the lost materials \"not only embraced the whole history of American invention for half a century, but were the monuments of property of vast amount, (including) 'the largest and most interesting collection of models in the world.'\"\n\nCongress investigated the fire immediately, suspecting arson. At the time of the fire the Post Office Department was under investigation for awarding dishonest mail contracts. It was first thought that perhaps the fire was set to destroy evidence. However, it turned out that the Post Office Department had saved all their documents. Investigators concluded that someone had stored hot ashes in a box in the basement. The live embers then ignited the firewood; no one was ever identified as having caused the fire. The Patent Office was moved to the old City Hall, at the time the District Courthouse.\n\nAll patents from prior to the fire are listed today as X-Patents by the office. There are estimated to be 9,957, of which only 2,845 have been restored. Congress solicited for the restoration of the lost patents and appropriated monies for this purpose. It is difficult for modern researchers to find those patents.\n\nThe fire occurred around the time of the Patent Act of 1836, which had required that patent applications be examined before being granted. An amendment to it the following year required submission of two copies of drawings—one for safekeeping in the patent office; the other attached to the patent grant transmitted to the applicant. The requirement ended in 1870 when the Office began printing complete copies of patents as issued.\n\nIn the aftermath of the fire, the way patents were identified was changed. As the National Archives notes: \"Patent records predating 1836 were unnumbered and could be accessed only by name of patentee and date of patent. After 1836, unique numbers assigned by the Patent Office distinguished each new patent.\"\n\nOn July 4, 1836, the Patent Office became a separate organization within the Department of State under the Patent Act of 1836 (5 Stat. 117). Henry Leavitt Ellsworth became its first Commissioner. He immediately began construction of a new \"fire-proof\" building, which was not completed until 1864.\n\nThe March 3, 1837, Act made provisions to restore the models and drawings lost in the 1836 fire. An amount of $100,000 was appropriated as a budget. There were some 10,000 patent records lost and some 7,000 invention models. One method of restoration was by getting back a duplicate from the original inventor. By 1849 the restoration process was discontinued and it was determined that $88,237.32 had been spent from the budget allowed.\n\nA fire in 1877 destroyed the west and north wing of the new building and caused even more damage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34148711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34148711", "title": "1993 Cherbourg incident", "text": "1993 Cherbourg incident\n\nThe 1993 Cherbourg incident were a series of maritime incidents which took place from 26 March to 2 April 1993 between the British Royal Navy and French fishermen as a result of a fishing rights dispute in and around the Channel Islands waters.\n\nThe tensions around the Channel Islands waters rose high since September 1992, when the European Union (EU) recognised a six-mile British limit for exclusive fishing rights around the islands. Until then, British and French trawlers operated in the zone without restrictions. The agreement left a three-mile limit from the coastline where only Jersey trawlers could fish, between the three-mile and the six-mile for any British-flagged boat and an outer area between the six-mile and the 12-mile limit where only British and French fishing boats could operate.\n\nThe first incident took place on 26 March, when two fishing inspectors from the Channel Islands were illegally taken on the trawler \"Impatiens\" to the French port of Barneville-Carteret, after the French fishing boat was challenged by the British fishery vessel HMS \"Orkney\" from Guernsey, which confiscated her pots. The inspectors were rescued some hours later by a French coastguard vessel. On 28 March 1993, HMS \"Blazer\" was paying a visit to Cherbourg when the local fishermen learned that a boat from their fleet, the \"La Calypso\", had been stopped at sea by a British minesweeper, HMS \"Brocklesby\". The captain of the \"La Calypso\" refused to submit and set out for Cherbourg with three British fishery protection servicemen on board. A French port vessel later returned the personnel to Royal Navy control. Eight French trawlers subsequently surrounded the \"Blazer\" at 3:00 pm and angry fishermen boarded the ship. According to witnesses, HMS \"Blazer\" was seized while manoeuvring outside the port and sailed to Cherbourg harbour by the intruders. Her crew of 16 were forced to remain below the deck for three hours, while the ship's White Ensign was burned. French authorities subsequently put an end to the situation and forcibly expelled the fishermen from \"Blazer\" and placed them under arrest. The French Navy, meanwhile, dispatched the patrol boat \"Coriander\" to Cherbourg. On 29 March a flotilla of 36 French trawlers steamed up to Saint Peter Port in Guernsey, where a preliminary deal was agreed. After the first incidents, the Royal Navy deployed unarmed Royal Marines to conduct any future similar law enforcement operations. The marines were from 40 Commando, based at Taunton in Somerset. The \"La Calypso\" was eventually caught by the fishery vessel HMS \"Jersey\" and her master was put under arrest in Guernsey on 2 April 1993. The skipper, Michel Mesnage, was released on bail on 3 April. A new incident took place on 30 June 1993, when the Guernsey-based trawler \"Sara P\" was seized by the French Navy, and had her pots confiscated.\n\nA spokeswoman for the French fishermen accused the Royal Navy of \"severe provocation\", while the British minister of Agriculture, John Gummer, stated that \"The rule of law must be upheld. I have always emphasised the need for fisheries regulations to be properly enforced throughout the EC. The regulations are there to conserve fish and the long-term interests of the fishermen themselves.\" The British Fisheries junior Minister, David Curry, claimed that the conflict was caused by the French authorities' failure to properly inform their fishermen about the agreement sanctioned by the EU in 1992, and the French legislative election, which in practice left no French government to deal with at the time of the incidents. The British Agriculture Minister had met his elected French counterpart on 1 April, and they had agreed that the 1992 EU decision should be enforced. The French government condemned the fishermen's actions. British and Cherbourg fishermen signed an informal agreement on 5 April, on the first day since the beginning of the crisis, that boats from England and the islands were allowed to unload their catch in France.\n\nA definitive agreement regarding fishing around the Channel Islands and the Contentin peninsula and Brittany was reached after an exchange of notes in Paris, on 16 August 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "58930526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58930526", "title": "Arif Iqbal Bhatti", "text": "Arif Iqbal Bhatti\n\nArif Iqbal Hussain Bhatti (death 17 October 1997) was a Pakistani jurist who was Judge of the Lahore High Court and was murdered for alleged blasphemy in verdict.\n\nIn 1995, he along Justice Khurshid Ahmed acquitted two Christian men of blasphemy charges.\n\nIn 1997, he was murdered by the Barelvi mobster Ahmed Sher for alleged blasphemy by acquitting blasphemy offenders.\n"}
{"id": "1667490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1667490", "title": "Asteroid mining", "text": "Asteroid mining\n\nAsteroid mining is the exploitation of raw materials from asteroids and other minor planets, including near-Earth objects.\n\nMinerals can be mined from an asteroid or spent comet, then used in space for construction materials or taken back to Earth. These include gold, iridium, silver, osmium, palladium, platinum, rhenium, rhodium, ruthenium and tungsten for transport back to Earth; iron, cobalt, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, aluminium, and titanium for construction.\n\nDue to the high cost of spaceflight, inaccurate identification of asteroids suitable for mining, and ore extraction challenges, terrestrial mining remains the only means of raw mineral acquisition today. If space program funding, either public or private, dramatically increases, this situation is likely to change in the future as resources on Earth are becoming increasingly scarce and the full potentials of asteroid mining—and space exploration in general—are researched in greater detail. However, it is yet uncertain whether asteroid mining will develop to attain the volume and composition needed in due time to fully compensate for dwindling terrestrial reserves.\n\nBased on known terrestrial reserves, and growing consumption in both developed and developing countries, key elements needed for modern industry and food production could be exhausted on Earth within 50 to 60 years. These include phosphorus, antimony, zinc, tin, lead, indium, silver, gold and copper.\nIn response, it has been suggested that platinum, cobalt and other valuable elements from asteroids may be mined and sent to Earth for profit, used to build solar-power satellites and space habitats, and water processed from ice to refuel orbiting propellant depots.\n\nAlthough asteroids and Earth accreted from the same starting materials, Earth's relatively stronger gravity pulled all heavy siderophilic (iron-loving) elements into its core during its molten youth more than four billion years ago. This left the crust depleted of such valuable elements until a rain of asteroid impacts re-infused the depleted crust with metals like gold, cobalt, iron, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, osmium, palladium, platinum, rhenium, rhodium, ruthenium and tungsten (some flow from core to surface does occur, e.g. at the Bushveld Igneous Complex, a famously rich source of platinum-group metals). Today, these metals are mined from Earth's crust, and they are essential for economic and technological progress. Hence, the geologic history of Earth may very well set the stage for a future of asteroid mining.\n\nIn 2006, the Keck Observatory announced that the binary Jupiter trojan 617 Patroclus, and possibly large numbers of other Jupiter trojans, are likely extinct comets and consist largely of water ice. Similarly, Jupiter-family comets, and possibly near-Earth asteroids that are extinct comets, might also provide water. The process of in-situ resource utilization—using materials native to space for propellant, thermal management, tankage, radiation shielding, and other high-mass components of space infrastructure—could lead to radical reductions in its cost. Although whether these cost reductions could be achieved, and if achieved would offset the enormous infrastructure investment required, is unknown.\n\nIce would satisfy one of two necessary conditions to enable \"human expansion into the Solar System\" (the ultimate goal for human space flight proposed by the 2009 \"Augustine Commission\" Review of United States Human Space Flight Plans Committee): physical sustainability and economic sustainability.\n\nFrom the astrobiological perspective, asteroid prospecting could provide scientific data for the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). Some astrophysicists have suggested that if advanced extraterrestrial civilizations employed asteroid mining long ago, the hallmarks of these activities might be detectable. Why extraterrestrials would have resorted to asteroid mining in near proximity to earth, with its readily available resources, has not been explained.\n\nAn important factor to consider in target selection is orbital economics, in particular the change in velocity (Δv) and travel time to and from the target. More of the extracted native material must be expended as propellant in higher Δv trajectories, thus less returned as payload. Direct Hohmann trajectories are faster than Hohmann trajectories assisted by planetary and/or lunar flybys, which in turn are faster than those of the Interplanetary Transport Network, but the reduction in transfer time comes at the cost of increased Δv requirements.\n\nThe Easily Recoverable Object (ERO) subclass of Near-Earth asteroids are considered likely candidates for early mining activity. Their low Δv makes them suitable for use in extracting construction materials for near-Earth space-based facilities, greatly reducing the economic cost of transporting supplies into Earth orbit.\n\nThe table above shows a comparison of Δv requirements for various missions. In terms of propulsion energy requirements, a mission to a near-Earth asteroid compares favorably to alternative mining missions.\n\nAn example of a potential target for an early asteroid mining expedition is 4660 Nereus, expected to be mainly enstatite. This body has a very low Δv compared to lifting materials from the surface of the Moon. However it would require a much longer round-trip to return the material.\n\nMultiple types of asteroids have been identified but the three main types would include the C-type, S-type, and M-type asteroids:\n\n\nA class of \"easily recoverable objects\" (EROs) was identified by a group of researchers in 2013. Twelve asteroids made up the initially identified group, all of which could be potentially mined with present-day rocket technology. Of 9,000 asteroids searched in the NEO database, these twelve could all be brought into an Earth-accessible orbit by changing their velocity by less than . The dozen asteroids range in size from .\n\nThe B612 Foundation is a private nonprofit foundation with headquarters in the United States, dedicated to protecting Earth from asteroid strikes. As a non-governmental organization it has conducted two lines of related research to help detect asteroids that could one day strike Earth, and find the technological means to divert their path to avoid such collisions.\n\nThe foundation's 2013 goal was to design and build a privately financed asteroid-finding space telescope, Sentinel, hoping in 2013 to launch it in 2017–2018. The Sentinel's infrared telescope, once parked in an orbit similar to that of Venus, is designed to help identify threatening asteroids by cataloging 90% of those with diameters larger than , as well as surveying smaller Solar System objects.\n\nData gathered by Sentinel was intended to be provided through an existing scientific data-sharing network that includes NASA and academic institutions such as the Minor Planet Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Given the satellite's telescopic accuracy, Sentinel's data may prove valuable for other possible future missions, such as asteroid mining.\n\nThere are three options for mining:\n\nProcessing \"in situ\" for the purpose of extracting high-value minerals will reduce the energy requirements for transporting the materials, although the processing facilities must first be transported to the mining site. \"In situ\" mining will involve drilling boreholes and injecting hot fluid/gas and allow the useful material to react or melt with the solvent and the extract the solute. Due to the weak gravitational fields of asteroids, any drilling will cause large disturbances and form dust clouds.\n\nMining operations require special equipment to handle the extraction and processing of ore in outer space.\nThe machinery will need to be anchored to the body, but once in place, the ore can be moved about more readily due to the lack of gravity. However, no techniques for refining ore in zero gravity currently exist. Docking with an asteroid might be performed using a harpoon-like process, where a projectile would penetrate the surface to serve as an anchor; then an attached cable would be used to winch the vehicle to the surface, if the asteroid is both penetrable and rigid enough for a harpoon to be effective.\n\nDue to the distance from Earth to an asteroid selected for mining, the round-trip time for communications will be several minutes or more, except during occasional close approaches to Earth by near-Earth asteroids. Thus any mining equipment will either need to be highly automated, or a human presence will be needed nearby. Humans would also be useful for troubleshooting problems and for maintaining the equipment. On the other hand, multi-minute communications delays have not prevented the success of robotic exploration of Mars, and automated systems would be much less expensive to build and deploy.\n\nTechnology being developed by Planetary Resources to locate and harvest these asteroids has resulted in the plans for three different types of satellites:\n\nTechnology being developed by Deep Space Industries to examine, sample, and harvest asteroids is divided into three families of spacecraft:\n\nAsteroid mining could potentially revolutionize space exploration. The C-type asteroids's high abundance of water could be used to produce fuel by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen. This would make space travel a more feasible option by lowering cost of fuel. While the cost of fuel is a relatively insignificant factor in the overall cost for low earth orbit manned space missions, storing it and the size of the craft become a much bigger factor for interplanetary missions. Typically 1 kg in orbit is equivalent to more than 10 kg on the ground (for a Falcon 9 1.0 it would need 250 tons of fuel to put 5 tons in GEO orbit or 10 tons in LEO). This limitation is a major factor in the difficulty of interplanetary missions as fuel becomes payload.\n\nOn some types of asteroids, material may be scraped off the surface using a scoop or auger, or for larger pieces, an \"active grab.\" \nThere is strong evidence that many asteroids consist of rubble piles, making this approach possible.\n\nA mine can be dug into the asteroid, and the material extracted through the shaft. This requires precise knowledge to engineer accuracy of astro-location under the surface regolith and a transportation system to carry the desired ore to the processing facility.\n\nAsteroids with a high metal content may be covered in loose grains that can be gathered by means of a magnet.\n\nFor asteroids such as carbonaceous chondrites that contain hydrated minerals, water and other volatiles can be extracted simply by heating. A water extraction test in 2016 by Honeybee Robotics used asteroid regolith simulant developed by Deep Space Industries and the University of Central Florida to match the bulk mineralogy of a particular carbonaceous meteorite. Although the simulant was physically dry (i.e., it contained no water molecules adsorbed in the matrix of the rocky material), heating to about 510 °C released hydroxyl, which came out as substantial amounts of water vapor from the molecular structure of phyllosilicate clays and sulphur compounds. The vapor was condensed into liquid water filling the collection containers, demonstrating the feasibility of mining water from certain classes of physically dry asteroids.\n\nFor volatile materials in extinct comets, heat can be used to melt and vaporize the matrix.\n\nThe nickel and iron of an iron rich asteroid could be extracted by the Mond process. This involves passing carbon monoxide over the asteroid at a temperature between 50 and 60 °C for nickel, higher for iron, and with high pressures and enclosed in materials that are resistant to the corrosive carbonyls. This forms the gases nickel tetracarbonyl and iron pentacarbonyl - then nickel and iron can be removed from the gas again at higher temperatures, perhaps in an attached printer, and platinum, gold etc. left as a residue.\n\nA 1980 NASA study entitled \"Advanced Automation for Space Missions\" proposed a complex automated factory on the Moon that would work over several years to build 80% of a copy of itself, the other 20% being imported from Earth since those more complex parts (like computer chips) would require a vastly larger supply chain to produce. Exponential growth of factories over many years could refine large amounts of lunar (or asteroidal) regolith. Since 1980 there has been major progress in miniaturization, nanotechnology, materials science, and additive manufacturing, so it may be possible to achieve 100% \"closure\" with a reasonably small mass of hardware, although these technology advancements are themselves enabled on Earth by expansion of the supply chain so it needs further study. A NASA study in 2012 proposed a \"bootstrapping\" approach to establish an in-space supply chain with 100% closure, suggesting it could be achieved in only two to four decades with low annual cost. A study in 2016 again claimed it is possible to complete in just a few decades because of ongoing advances in robotics, and it argued it will provide benefits back to the Earth including economic growth, environmental protection, and provision of clean energy while also providing humanity protection against existential threats.\n\nOn April 24, 2012 a plan was announced by billionaire entrepreneurs to mine asteroids for their resources. The company is called Planetary Resources and its founders include aerospace entrepreneurs Eric Anderson and Peter Diamandis. Advisers include film director and explorer James Cameron and investors include Google's chief executive Larry Page and its executive chairman Eric Schmidt. They also plan to create a fuel depot in space by 2020 by using water from asteroids, splitting it to liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen for rocket fuel. From there, it could be shipped to Earth orbit for refueling commercial satellites or spacecraft. The plan has been met with skepticism by some scientists, who do not see it as cost-effective, even though platinum is worth £22 per gram and gold nearly £31 per gram (approximately £961 per troy ounce). Platinum and gold are raw materials traded on terrestrial markets, and it is impossible to predict what prices either will command at the point in the future when resources from asteroids become available. For example, platinum traditionally is very valuable due to its use in both industrial and jewelry applications, but should future technologies make the internal combustion engine obsolete, the demand for platinum's use as the catalyst in catalytic converters may well decline and decrease the metal's long term demand. The ongoing NASA mission OSIRIS-REx, which is planned to return just a minimal amount (60 g; two ounces) of material but could get up to 2 kg from an asteroid to Earth, will cost about US$1 billion.\n\nPlanetary Resources says that, in order to be successful, it will need to develop technologies that bring the cost of space flight down. Planetary Resources also expects that the construction of \"space infrastructure\" will help to reduce long-term running costs. For example, fuel costs can be reduced by extracting water from asteroids and splitting to hydrogen using solar energy. In theory, hydrogen fuel mined from asteroids costs significantly less than fuel from Earth due to high costs of escaping Earth's gravity. If successful, investment in \"space infrastructure\" and economies of scale could reduce operational costs to levels significantly below NASA's ongoing (OSIRIS-REx) mission.This investment would have to be amortized through the sale of commodities, delaying any return to investors. There are also some indications that Planetary Resources expects government to fund infrastructure development, as was exemplified by its recent request for $700,000 from NASA to fund the first of the telescopes described above.\n\nAnother similar venture, called Deep Space Industries, was started in 2013 by David Gump, who had founded other space companies. At the time, the company hoped to begin prospecting for asteroids suitable for mining by 2015 and by 2016 return asteroid samples to Earth. Deep Space Industries planned to begin mining asteroids by 2023.\n\nAt ISDC-San Diego 2013, Kepler Energy and Space Engineering (KESE,llc) also announced it was going to mine asteroids, using a simpler, more straightforward approach: KESE plans to use almost exclusively existing guidance, navigation and anchoring technologies from mostly successful missions like the Rosetta/Philae, Dawn, and Hyabusa's Muses-C and current NASA Technology Transfer tooling to build and send a 4-module Automated Mining System (AMS) to a small asteroid with a simple digging tool to collect ~40 tons of asteroid regolith and bring each of the four return modules back to low Earth orbit (LEO) by the end of the decade. Small asteroids are expected to be loose piles of rubble, therefore providing for easy extraction.\n\nIn September 2012, the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts (NIAC) announced the Robotic Asteroid Prospector project, which will examine and evaluate the feasibility of asteroid mining in terms of means, methods, and systems.\n\nBeing the largest body in the asteroid belt, Ceres could become the main base and transport hub for future asteroid mining infrastructure, allowing mineral resources to be transported to Mars, the Moon, and Earth. Because of its small escape velocity combined with large amounts of water ice, it also could serve as a source of water, fuel, and oxygen for ships going through and beyond the asteroid belt. Transportation from Mars or the Moon to Ceres would be even more energy-efficient than transportation from Earth to the Moon.\n\nOrganizations which are working on asteroid mining include the following:\n\nAccording to the Asterank database, the following asteroids are considered the best targets for mining if maximum cost-effectiveness is to be achieved: \n\nCurrently, the quality of the ore and the consequent cost and mass of equipment required to extract it are unknown and can only be speculated. Some economic analyses indicate that the cost of returning asteroidal materials to Earth far outweighs their market value, and that asteroid mining will not attract private investment at current commodity prices and space transportation costs. Other studies suggest large profit by using solar power. Potential markets for materials can be identified and profit generated if extraction cost is brought down. For example, the delivery of multiple tonnes of water to low Earth orbit for rocket fuel preparation for space tourism could generate a significant profit if space tourism itself proves profitable, which has not been proven.\n\nIn 1997 it was speculated that a relatively small metallic asteroid with a diameter of contains more than US$20 trillion worth of industrial and precious metals. A comparatively small M-type asteroid with a mean diameter of could contain more than two billion metric tons of iron–nickel ore, or two to three times the world production of 2004. The asteroid 16 Psyche is believed to contain of nickel–iron, which could supply the world production requirement for several million years. A small portion of the extracted material would also be precious metals.\n\nNot all mined materials from asteroids would be cost-effective, especially for the potential return of economic amounts of material to Earth. For potential return to Earth, platinum is considered very rare in terrestrial geologic formations and therefore is potentially worth bringing some quantity for terrestrial use. Nickel, on the other hand, is quite abundant and being mined in many terrestrial locations, so the high cost of asteroid mining may not make it economically viable.\n\nAlthough Planetary Resources indicated in 2012 that the platinum from a asteroid could be worth US$25–50 billion, an economist remarked any outside source of precious metals could lower prices sufficiently to possibly doom the venture by rapidly increasing the available supply of such metals.\n\nDevelopment of an infrastructure for altering asteroid orbits could offer a large return on investment.\n\nScarcity is a fundamental economic problem of humans having seemingly unlimited wants in a world of limited resources. Since Earth's resources are not infinite, the relative abundance of asteroidal ore gives asteroid mining the potential to provide nearly unlimited resources, which would essentially eliminate scarcity for those materials.\n\nThe idea of exhausting resources is not new. In 1798, Thomas Malthus wrote, because resources are ultimately limited, the exponential growth in a population would result in falls in income per capita until poverty and starvation would result as a constricting factor on population. It should be noted that Malthus posited this years ago, and no sign has yet emerged of the Malthus effect regarding raw materials. \n\nContinued development in asteroid mining techniques and technology will help to increase mineral discoveries. As the cost of extracting mineral resources, especially platinum group metals, on Earth rises, the cost of extracting the same resources from celestial bodies declines due to technological innovations around space exploration. However, it should be noted that the \"substitution effect\", i.e. the use of other materials for the functions now performed by platinum, would increase in strength as the cost of platinum increased. New supplies would also come to market in the form of jewelry and recycled electronic equipment from itinerant \"we buy platinum\" businesses like the \"we buy gold\" businesses that exist now.\n\n, there are 711 known asteroids with a value exceeding US$100 trillion.\n\nSpace ventures are high-risk, with long lead times and heavy capital investment, and that is no different for asteroid-mining projects. These types of ventures could be funded through private investment or through government investment. For a commercial venture it can be profitable as long as the revenue earned is greater than total costs (costs for extraction and costs for marketing). The costs involving an asteroid-mining venture have been estimated to be around US$100 billion in 1996.\n\nThere are six categories of cost considered for an asteroid mining venture:\n\nDetermining financial feasibility is best represented through net present value. One requirement needed for financial feasibility is a high return on investments estimating around 30%. Example calculation assumes for simplicity that the only valuable material on asteroids is platinum. On August 16, 2016 platinum was valued at $1157 per ounce or $37,000 per kilogram. At a price of $1,340, for a 10% return on investment, of platinum would have to be extracted for every 1,155,000 tons of asteroid ore. For a 50% return on investment of platinum would have to be extracted for every 11,350,000 tons of asteroid ore. This analysis assumes that doubling the supply of platinum to the market (5.13 million ounces in 2014) would have no effect on the price of platinum. A more realistic assumption is that increasing the supply by this amount would reduce the price 30–50%.\n\nThe financial feasibility of asteroid mining with regards to different technical parameters has been presented by Sonter and more recently by Hein et al..\n\nHein et al. have specifically explored the case where platinum is brought from space to Earth and estimate that economically viable asteroid mining for this specific case would be rather challenging. \n\nDecreases in the price of space access matter. The start of operational use of the low-cost-per-kilogram-in-orbit Falcon Heavy launch vehicle in 2018 is projected by astronomer Martin Elvis to have increased the extent of economically-minable near-Earth asteroids from hundreds to thousands. With the increased availability of several kilometers per second of delta-v that Falcon Heavy provides, it increases the number of NEAs accessible from 3 percent to around 45 percent.\n\nSpace law involves a specific set of international treaties, along with national statutory laws. The system and framework for international and domestic laws have emerged in part through the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs. The rules, terms and agreements that space law authorities consider to be part of the active body of international space law are the five international space treaties and five UN declarations. Approximately 100 nations and institutions were involved in negotiations. The space treaties cover many major issues such as arms control, non-appropriation of space, freedom of exploration, liability for damages, safety and rescue of astronauts and spacecraft, prevention of harmful interference with space activities and the environment, notification and registration of space activities, and the settlement of disputes. In exchange for assurances from the space power, the nonspacefaring nations acquiesced to U.S. and Soviet proposals to treat outer space as a commons (res communis) territory which belonged to no one state.\n\nAsteroid mining in particular is covered by both international treaties—for example, the Outer Space Treaty—and national statutory laws—for example, specific legislative acts in the United States and Luxembourg.\n\nVarying degrees of criticism exist regarding international space law. Some critics accept the Outer Space Treaty, but reject the Moon Agreement. Therefore, it is important to note that even the Moon Agreement with its common heritage of mankind clause, allows space mining, extraction, private property rights and exclusive ownership rights over natural outer space resources, if removed from their natural place. The Outer Space Treaty and the Moon Agreement allow private property rights for outer space natural resources once removed from the surface, subsurface or subsoil of the moon and other celestial bodies in outer space. Thus, international space law is capable of managing newly emerging space mining activities, private space transportation, commercial spaceports and commercial space stations/habitats/settlements. Space mining involving the extraction and removal of natural resources from their natural location is without question allowable under the Outer Space Treaty and the Moon Agreement. Once removed, those natural resources can be reduced to possession, sold, traded and explored or used for scientific purposes. International space law allows space mining, specifically the extraction of natural resources. It is generally understood within the space law authorities that extracting space resources is allowable, even by private companies for profit. However, international space law prohibits property rights over territories and outer space land.\n\nAstrophysicists Carl Sagan and Steven J. Ostro raised the concern altering the trajectories of asteroids near Earth might pose a collision hazard threat. They concluded that orbit engineering has both opportunities and dangers: if controls instituted on orbit-manipulation technology were too tight, future spacefaring could be hampered, but if they were too loose, human civilization would be at risk.\n\nAfter ten years of negotiations between nearly 100 nations, the Outer Space Treaty opened for signature on January 27, 1966. It entered into force as the constitution for outer space on October 10, 1967. The Outer Space Treaty was well received; it was ratified by ninety-six nations and signed by an additional twenty-seven states. The outcome has been that the basic foundation of international space law consists of five (arguably four) international space treaties, along with various written resolutions and declarations. The main international treaty is the Outer Space Treaty of 1967; it is generally viewed as the \"Constitution\" for outer space. By ratifying the Outer Space Treaty of 1967, ninety-eight nations agreed that outer space would belong to the \"province of mankind\", that all nations would have the freedom to \"use\" and \"explore\" outer space, and that both these provisions must be done in a way to \"benefit all mankind\". The province of mankind principle and the other key terms have not yet been specifically defined (Jasentuliyana, 1992). Critics have complained that the Outer Space Treaty is vague. Yet, international space law has worked well and has served space commercial industries and interests for many decades. The taking away and extraction of Moon rocks, for example, has been treated as being legally permissible.\n\nThe framers of Outer Space Treaty initially focused on solidifying broad terms first, with the intent to create more specific legal provisions later (Griffin, 1981: 733–734). This is why the members of the COPUOS later expanded the Outer Space Treaty norms by articulating more specific understandings which are found in the \"three supplemental agreements\" – the Rescue and Return Agreement of 1968, the Liability Convention of 1973, and the Registration Convention of 1976 (734).\n\nHobe (2006) explains that the Outer Space Treaty \"explicitly and implicitly prohibits only the acquisition of territorial property rights\" – public or private, but extracting space resources is allowable.\n\nThe Moon Agreement (1979–1984) is often treated as though it is not a part of the body of international space law, and there has been extensive debate on whether or not the Moon Agreement is a valid part of international law. It entered into force in 1984, because of a five state ratification consensus procedure, agreed upon by the members of the United Nations Committee on Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS). Still today very few nations have signed and/or ratified the Moon Agreement. In recent years this figure has crept up to a few more than a dozen nations who have signed and ratified the treaty. The other three outer space treaties experienced a high level of international cooperation in terms of signage and ratification, but the Moon Treaty went further than them, by defining the Common Heritage concept in more detail and by imposing specific obligations on the parties engaged in the exploration and/or exploitation of outer space. The Moon Treaty explicitly designates the Moon and its natural resources as part of the Common Heritage of Mankind.\n\nThe Moon Agreement allows space mining, specifically the extraction of natural resources. The treaty specifically provides in Article 11, paragraph 3 that:\n\nNeither the surface nor the subsurface of the Moon, nor any part thereof or natural resources in place [emphasis added], shall become property of any State, international intergovernmental or non-governmental organization, national organization or non-governmental entity or of any natural person. The placement of personnel, space vehicles, equipment, facilities, stations and installations on or below the surface of the Moon, including structures connected with its surface or subsurface, shall not create a right of ownership over the surface or the subsurface of the Moon or any areas thereof.\n\nThe objection to the treaty by the spacefaring nations is held to be the requirement that extracted resources (and the technology used to that end) must be shared with other nations. The similar regime in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is believed to impede the development of such industries on the seabed.\n\nSome nations are beginning to promulgate legal regimes for extraterrestrial resource extraction. For example, the United States \"SPACE Act of 2015\"—facilitating private development of space resources consistent with US international treaty obligations—passed the US House of Representatives in July 2015. In November 2015 it passed the United States Senate. On 25 November US-President Barack Obama signed the \"H.R.2262 – U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act\" into law. The law recognizes the right of U.S. citizens to own space resources they obtain and encourages the commercial exploration and utilization of resources from asteroids. According to the article § 51303 of the law:\nIn February 2016, the Government of Luxembourg announced that it would attempt to \"jump-start an industrial sector to mine asteroid resources in space\" by, among other things, creating a \"legal framework\" and regulatory incentives for companies involved in the industry.\nBy June 2016, it announced that it would \"invest more than in research, technology demonstration, and in the direct purchase of equity in companies relocating to Luxembourg.\"\nIn 2017, it became the \"first European country to pass a law conferring to companies the ownership of any resources they extract from space\", and remained active in advancing space resource public policy in 2018.\n\nA positive impact of asteroid mining has been conjectured as being an enabler of transferring industrial activities into space, such as energy generation . A quantitative analysis of the potential environmental benefits of water and platinum mining in space has been developed, where potentially large benefits could materialize, depending on the ratio of material mined in space and mass launched into space .\n\n\nFirst successful missions by country:\nThe first mention of asteroid mining in science fiction apparently came in Garrett P. Serviss' story \"Edison's Conquest of Mars\", published in the \"New York Evening Journal\" in 1898.\n\nThe 1979 film \"Alien\", directed by Ridley Scott, features the crew of the \"Nostromo\", a commercially-operated spaceship on a return trip to Earth hauling a refinery and 20 million tons of mineral ore mined from an asteroid.\n\nC. J. Cherryh's 1991 novel, \"Heavy Time\", focuses on the plight of asteroid miners in the Alliance-Union universe, while \"Moon\" is a 2009 British science fiction drama film depicting a lunar facility that mines the alternative fuel helium-3 needed to provide energy on Earth. It was notable for its realism and drama, winning several awards internationally.\n\nSeveral science-fiction video games include asteroid mining. For example, in the space-MMO, \"EVE Online\", asteroid mining is a very popular career, owing to its simplicity.\n\nIn the computer game \"Star Citizen\", the mining occupation supports a variety of dedicated specialists, each of which has a critical role to play in the effort.\n\nIn \"The Expanse\" series of novels, asteroid mining is a driving economic force behind the colonization of the solar system. Since huge energy input is required to escape planets' gravity, the novels imply that once space-based mining platforms are established, it will be more efficient to harvest natural resources (water, oxygen, building materials, etc.) from asteroids rather than lifting them out of Earth's gravity well.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50651588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50651588", "title": "Atheists of Florida", "text": "Atheists of Florida\n\nAtheists of Florida (AOF) is a 501(c)(3) educational nonprofit organization. Their main goal is to advocate for separation of church and state.\n\nAtheists of Florida, like many other atheist groups affiliated with the Atheist Alliance, had its beginning as a chapter of American Atheists.\n\nDuring the 1980s, American Atheists (AA) operated a chapter program intended to increase membership through the activities of these chapters. To indemnify the organization from being financially depleted through a lawsuit, Madalyn Murray O’Hair, founder of AA, formed six organizations in addition to the anchor corporation, Society of Separationists, Inc. A board of directors was established for each corporation consisting of O’Hair, her son, Jon Murray, president for life of American Atheists, and her adopted granddaughter, Robin Murray O’Hair, and two other members of AA. This way, the O’Hair family retained complete control of all corporations.\n\nO’Hair structured the business to provide for the future of her family. Any funds inherited by the organization became the private property of the O’Hair family, never accounted for within the organization.\nChristos Tzanetakos, Director of the Miami Chapter of AA and a member of one of the corporate boards, expressed concerns about how AA was being run. He asserted it should be run according to laws governing 501 (c) (3) organizations whereby the membership would elect the officers, similar to the operating practices of the National Academy of Sciences. AA, he contended, was in violation of non-profit organization laws. Tzanetakos complained to the IRS suggesting AA was operating in violation of the law. O’Hair responded by closing all but one of the chapters (the surviving chapter was involved in litigation at the time). Tzanetakos had accumulated over $6,000 in donations he intended to use to instigate a scholarship fund sponsored by the Miami chapter. Chapter bank accounts had been opened using the AA 501 (c) (3) charter documents in each state, which subsequently gave the O’Hairs access to all bank accounts. The O’Hairs closed the chapter.\n\nTzanetakos, with the backing of his membership, decided to incorporate Atheists of Florida (A of F), which was don January 22, 1992.\n\nA second AA chapter had been operating in the Tampa Bay Area. When closed with all the others, it continued to hold casual meetings that accomplished little more than camaraderie among the members.\n\nUpon formation of A of F, Tzanetakos contacted the Tampa chapter informing them of his actions and explaining that if a minimum of ten members from a common geographic area joined A of F, they could form a chapter. The local chapter consented to become members of A of F.\n\nThe Miami chapter eventually dissolved while the Tampa Bay chapter continued to grow. Increasingly, the majority of board members came from the Tampa Bay area, and eventually the Tampa chapter obtained space in a commercial building in South Tampa, which evolved into the headquarters of the organization.\n\nOn July 29, 2004, a member of Atheists of Florida (Michael R. Harvey) was scheduled to give the invocation to the Tampa City Council. As the meeting opened, one of the City Council members made a motion to stop the delivery of the invocation by an atheist. Several council members defended the right of the member to deliver the invocation. The motion ended in a tie, after one council member left the meeting, asserting that \"I don't have to sit here and listen to an atheist tell me what I should or should not believe.\" With the invocation set to begin, another two council members left the meeting, claiming that they rather not listen to an atheist.\n\nIn January, 2016, Atheists of Florida met with the Hillsborough County School superintendent concerning the involvement of various religious groups in the public school system and the oversight of these groups to ensure they are following the constitution. This followed the press coverage of T-shirts supplied to various school officials proclaiming the school's partnership with a local Baptist church, along with the church's symbol on the shirts, which consisted of two crosses. Other groups were found to be participating in the schools in what appeared to be violation of the Equal Access Act. The school board has responded with an effort to ensure that all groups are following the constitution.\n\nSome of these same groups are involved in school districts throughout the state of Florida, Atheists of Florida have contacted several other school districts in regard to the involvement of these groups in their school district.\n\nAfter the Greece, New York decision by the Supreme Court, Atheists of Florida members have delivered invocations on several occasions to various local government bodies, all without incident.\n"}
{"id": "555206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555206", "title": "By any means necessary", "text": "By any means necessary\n\nBy any means necessary is a translation of a phrase used by French intellectual Jean-Paul Sartre in his play \"Dirty Hands\". It entered the popular civil rights culture through a speech given by Malcolm X at the Organization of Afro-American Unity founding rally on June 28, 1964. It is generally considered to leave open all available tactics for the desired ends, including violence; however, the “necessary” qualifier adds a caveat—if violence is not necessary, then presumably, it should not be used.\n\nThe phrase is translation of a sentence used in French intellectual Jean-Paul Sartre's play \"Dirty Hands\":\n\nIt entered the popular culture through a speech given by Malcolm X in the last year of his life.\n\nIn the final scene of the 1992 movie \"Malcolm X\", Nelson Mandela—recently released after 27 years of political imprisonment—appears as a schoolteacher in a Soweto classroom. Yet Mandela informed director Spike Lee that he could not utter the famous final phrase \"by any means necessary\" on camera; fearing that the apartheid government would use it against him if he did. Lee obliged, and the final seconds of the film feature black-and-white footage of Malcolm X himself delivering the phrase.\n\n"}
{"id": "37759956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37759956", "title": "Byron David Smith killings", "text": "Byron David Smith killings\n\nThe Byron David Smith killings occurred on Thanksgiving Day of 2012, when Haile Kifer, 18, and her cousin, Nicholas Brady, 17, broke into the home of Byron David Smith, 64, in Little Falls, Minnesota, in the United States. Smith, armed with a Ruger Mini-14, shot the teens separately and minutes apart as they entered the basement where he was, later stating to police he was worried about them being armed. \n\nThe case sparked debate over the \"castle doctrine\", which allows a homeowner to defend his home with lethal force. The prosecution alleged that Smith's actions showed aspects of premeditation (see lying in wait) and he used excessive force in relation to the threat. He was convicted and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nSmith, 64, was retired from the U.S. State Department and had a history of international travel to Moscow, Bangkok and Beijing. Smith's brother described him as a retired security engineering officer.\n\nPrior to the incident, Byron Smith had been burglarized at least half a dozen times over the preceding few months. Among the items stolen were thousands of dollars in cash, the watch his father had received after spending nearly a year as a POW in World War II, medals and ribbons Smith had earned in the Air Force during the Vietnam War, several firearms, and jewelry. Smith began routinely wearing a holster with a loaded gun inside his home. There is some evidence that Kifer and Brady committed at least a couple of the previous break-ins and were being investigated for prior burglaries, including one earlier on the day they were killed. Smith installed a security system to protect himself.\n\nOn November 22, 2012, Kifer and Brady broke into Smith's home. Video surveillance captured the teens casing the property prior to the break-in.\nBy his own account to police, Smith was in the basement when he shot Brady twice at the top of the basement stairs, and once in the face fatally after he fell to the bottom of the stairs. Minutes later when Kifer entered the basement, he shot her at the top of the stairs. Wounded, she fell down the stairs, and after Smith's rifle jammed, he shot her multiple times in the chest with a 22-caliber revolver, dragged her across the floor to set her beside the body of her cousin, and then shot her fatally under the chin. \n\nAudio and video of the events were recorded by Smith's security system. \n\nThe deaths were not immediately reported to police. Smith waited until the next day to notify police of the shootings, claiming he didn't want to bother the police on Thanksgiving. Morrison County Sheriff Michel Wetzel has acknowledged that Brady and Kifer were there to burglarize Smith's residence. Brady's sister claimed Brady stole drugs from her home August 28 in a case that was still under investigation. Evidence recovered from the car driven by Brady was linked to a burglary of the residence of a retired teacher the night before he and Kifer were killed by Byron Smith.\n\nSmith's statements to police describe delivering killing shots to the heads of both victims after he had shot them on the stairs and they had fallen to the basement floor wounded. In his statement, Smith said that Kifer had let out a short laugh after she fell down the stairs, saying \"If you're trying to shoot somebody and they laugh at you, you go again.\" The audiotape did not record Kifer laughing; instead she cries \"Oh my God!\" in fear. In police interviews Smith acknowledged \"firing more shots than I needed to\" and that he fired \"a good clean finishing shot\" into Kifer's head.\n\nLegal analysts have stated that the initial shootings most likely would have been justified under Minnesota's laws, but that the subsequent shots were not justified once any threat had been removed. Sheriff Wetzel said that \"The law doesn't permit you to execute somebody once a threat is gone.\" Hamline University School of Law professor Joseph Olson: \"I think the first shot is justified. After the person is no longer a threat because they're seriously wounded, the application of self-defense is over.\"\n\nA number of aspects of the case were noted by police as being inconsistent with self-defense. Smith moved his truck earlier in the day. He claimed it was in order to clean his garage. Prosecutors argued at his trial that it was an attempt to make the house look abandoned in order to lure the burglars into his home.\n\nIn addition to his home surveillance system, Smith also recorded at least 6 hours of audio on a digital recorder in the basement of the residence. He was sitting in a chair at the bottom of the stairs with a loaded rifle and a tape recorder that captured not only the shootings, but also a monologue by Smith. Prior to the break-in, he is heard saying \"In your left eye.\" and \"I realize I don't have an appointment but I would like to see one of the lawyers here.\". The prosecution noted that Kifer was later shot in the left eye by Smith and allege that the other statement is a rehearsal of what he would say after the shooting—an indication that he knew he would soon need an attorney. \n\nFollowing the shootings, Smith captured a number of statements including: \"I am not a bleeding heart liberal. I felt like I was cleaning up a mess - not like spilled food, not like vomit, not even like…not even like diarrhea - the worst mess possible. And I was stuck with it…in some tiny little respect…in some tiny little respect. I was doing my civic duty. If the law enforcement system couldn't handle it, I had to do it. I had to do it. The law system couldn't handle her and if it fell into my lap and she dropped her problem in my lap…and she threw her own problem in my face. And I had to clean it up.\" Smith's recorded statements, the evidence indicating he had planned the shootings, along with the excessive number of shots fired led to the charge of second degree murder. Smith was initially charged with two counts of second degree murder, however, in April 2013, he was indicted on two counts of first degree murder. Bail was later set at $50,000, which Smith posted.\n\nHamline law professor emeritus Joseph Daly commented that the laws surrounding the case were dividing the Little Falls community. \"In some states, somebody breaks into your home you are allowed to shoot them dead. Period,\" said Daly. He pointed out others states, such as Florida have a \"stand your ground\" law, but Minnesota has what's known as a reasonable person doctrine. \"If a reasonable person would see if you are in fear of great bodily harm of death. That's our statute. It comes down to what would a reasonable person see in this situation for Mr. Smith?\" said Daly.\n\nOn April 29, 2014, Byron David Smith was found guilty on two counts of first-degree murder with premeditation and on two counts of second-degree murder after three hours of jury deliberations. He was immediately sentenced to life in prison without parole. The audio recordings were named by the jurors as the biggest influence on their decision. \"That was the most damning piece of evidence in my mind,\" Wes Hatlestad, one of 12 jurors, said following the trial. \"That audio recording of the actual killings and the audio recording of Mr. Smith's interview immediately after his arrest ... pretty much convinced me that we were dealing with a deranged individual.\"\n\nUnder Minnesota state statute, \"...[R]easonable force may be used upon or toward the person of another without the other's consent when the following circumstances exist or the actor reasonably believes them to exist...when used by any person in lawful possession of real or personal property...in resisting...unlawful interference with such property...\n\nAnother state statute states: \"The intentional taking of the life of another is not authorized..., except when necessary in resisting or preventing an offense which the actor reasonably believes exposes the actor or another to great bodily harm or death, or preventing the commission of a felony in the actor's place of abode.\" \n\nAccording to another state statute: \"In criminal trials, the court shall decide questions of law, except in cases of criminal defamation, and the jury shall decide questions of fact.\"\n"}
{"id": "34387811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34387811", "title": "Carriage of Goods By Sea Act 1992", "text": "Carriage of Goods By Sea Act 1992\n\nThe Carriage of Goods By Sea Act 1992 is a UK Statute that repeals the Bills of Lading Act 1855 and makes new provisions.\n\nThe Bills of Lading Act 1855 was commendably brief and proved useful, but as time went by certain defects became apparent. The English courts devised some ways round the problem: in \"Brandt v Liverpool\" 1924 the concept of implied contracts was developed. Nevertheless, there were difficulties relating to passing of property and passing of risk.\n\nThe Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission addressed the issue in a report, \"Rights of Suit in respect of Carriage of Goods by Sea\". The Report contained a draft bill which Parliament adopted in full without amendment.\n\nThe statute makes provision for Bills of Lading and other documents of carriage, as follows:\n\nA bill of lading serves three main functions: \n\nAlthough the term \"bill of lading\" is well known and well understood, it may become obsolete. Articles 1:15 & 1:16 of the Rotterdam Rules create the new term \"transport document\"; but (assuming the Rules come into force) it remains to be seen whether shippers, carriers and \"maritime performing parties\" (another new Rotterdam Rules coinage) will abandon the long-established and familiar term, \"bill of lading\".\n\nThe Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971 incorporates the Hague-Visby Rules into English Law. These rules require (where the Article X invokes the Rules) that, on demand, the carrier must provide the shipper with a bill of lading that meets the requiirements of Article III. Although CoGSA 1992 cannot amend the Hague-Visby Rules, which are an International Convention, s.4 of the 1992 Act (above) upgrades the status of a bill of lading to be conclusive evidence of receipt for shipment.\n\n"}
{"id": "53378698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53378698", "title": "Central Directorate for Electoral Services", "text": "Central Directorate for Electoral Services\n\nThe Central Directorate for Electoral Services () is the national election commission in Italy. It is the main body responsible for the management and overseeing elections in Italy. However the Municipal Electoral Offices of an area decide whether persons are allowed to vote (and other matters), whereas the Ministry of Interior compiles the election information electronically, analyses the results of elections, referenda, and has the duty of officially announcing their results.\n\nThe Central Directorate has the responsibility over:\n"}
{"id": "1613672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1613672", "title": "Columbia River Treaty", "text": "Columbia River Treaty\n\nThe Columbia River Treaty is a 1964 agreement between Canada and the United States on the development and operation of dams in the upper Columbia River basin for power and flood control benefits in both countries. Four dams were constructed under this treaty: three in British Columbia, Canada (Duncan Dam, Mica Dam, Keenleyside Dam) and one in Montana in the United States (Libby Dam). The treaty provided for the sharing with Canada of one-half of the downstream U.S. power and flood benefits, and allows the operation of Treaty storage for other benefits. The long-term impacts of the treaty have been mixed: while the dams have provided enormous economic benefits to British Columbia and the U.S. Pacific Northwest through hydroelectric generation and flood control, there are longstanding concerns regarding social and economic impacts to the local communities, and the environmental effects associated with the construction and operation of large dams.\n\nIn 1944, the Canadian and U.S. governments agreed to begin studying the potential for joint development of dams in the Columbia River basin. Planning efforts were slow until a 1948 Columbia River flood caused extensive damage from Trail, British Columbia, to near Astoria, Oregon, completely destroying Vanport, the second largest city in Oregon. The increased interest in flood protection and the growing need for power development initiated 11 years of discussion and alternative proposals for construction of dams in Canada. In 1959, the governments issued a report that recommended principles for negotiating an agreement and apportioning the costs and benefits. Formal negotiations began in February 1960 and the Treaty was signed 17 January 1961 by Prime Minister Diefenbaker and President Eisenhower. The treaty was not implemented, however, until over three years later due to difficulties in creating arrangements for funding the construction of the Canadian dams and marketing the electrical power owed to Canada which was surplus to Canadian needs during the early treaty years. A Treaty Protocol and a Canada-B.C. agreement were signed in January 1964 that limited and clarified many treaty provisions, defined rights and obligations between the British Columbia and Canadian governments, and allowed for the sale of the Canadian Entitlement to downstream U.S. power authorities (BPA). Instruments of ratification were exchanged and the treaty was implemented on 16 September 1964.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, the United States constructed dams on the lower Columbia River for power generation, flood control, channel navigation, and irrigation in Washington as part of the Columbia Basin Project. Dam construction on the American side of the border thus began prior to the entry into force of the Columbia River Treaty. There were various plans put forward in the early 20th century for major dams on the Columbia, many focused on irrigation, but development did not begin in earnest until the 1930s. During the Great Depression, the US Federal Government provided the impetus for construction, as part of the New Deal make-work program. Construction on the Bonneville and Grand Coulee Dams began during this period, but government involvement in Columbia dam construction has continued through to the present.\n\nThe long range plans for American development of the Columbia for hydroelectricity came together in the late 1930s. In 1937, the US Congress passed the Bonneville Power Act, creating the Bonneville Power Administration. This was a new federal institution meant to build transmission lines and sell the power generated by Bonneville, Grand Coulee and future Columbia Dams. While these projects substantially increased the ability to control floods and generate power, the system was unable to provide full protection or maximize the amount of power generated. American planners realized that the full potential of the river could only be harnessed through transboundary cooperation to create additional storage capacity above the existing lower Columbia complex. With the storage provided in Canada, water releases could be timed to meet power demand, rather than relying on the snowmelt-determined natural flow rates of the river.\n\nIn Canada, British Columbia Premier W.A.C. Bennett and his Social Credit Government were responsible for the development of infrastructure throughout the province during the 1950s and 1960s. Bennett was the Canadian force behind the Columbia River Treaty and as a believer in the development of public power, he created and promoted a \"Two Rivers Policy\". This policy outlined the hydroelectric development of two major rivers within the province of British Columbia: the Peace River and the Columbia River. Bennett wanted to develop the Peace River to fuel northern expansion and development, while using the Columbia River to provide power to growing industries throughout the province.\n\nThe ongoing negotiations of the Columbia River Treaty provided a unique opportunity for W.A.C. Bennett to fulfil his Two Rivers Policy by working around British Columbia's monetary issues. During the 1950s, the government of British Columbia lacked the funds necessary to develop both the Columbia and Peace rivers and privately owned utility BC Electric was unwilling to pay for hydroelectric development on these rivers. Therefore, the BC Energy Board recommended that hydroelectric development be undertaken as a public venture. On 1 August 1961 Bill 5 was proposed to the BC legislature calling for provincial control over BC Electric and creation of the Peace River Power Development Company. Later that month, Bill 5 was passed into law paving the way for the creation of BC Hydro in 1963, completing Bennett's vision of \"public power\". BC Hydro thereafter consisted of BC Electric, the Peace River Power Development Company, and the BC Power Commission. The creation of a government owned power entity allowed Bennett to finance the dams and powerhouses on the Columbia at lower interest rates, thus reducing the cost. Next, the BC-Canada Agreement of 8 July 1963 designated BC Hydro as the entity responsible for Canadian dams outlined in the treaty, and annual operations of the treaty.\n\nLastly, Bennett directed the negotiations for a Canadian Entitlement sales agreement which provided the funds to develop both the Columbia and the Peace rivers simultaneously. Since it was illegal for Canada to export power during the 1950s and 1960s, the funds provided by the Columbia River Treaty entitlement were the only affordable way for British Columbia to develop both rivers, thus the Treaty became integral to Bennett's vision of power in British Columbia. With the cash received from the sale of the additional power generation of the Canadian Entitlement (approximately C$274.8 million in Sept. 1964 for the first 30 years) the BC government proceeded to develop power facilities on both the Columbia and Peace Rivers, fulfilling Bennett's 'Two River Policy'.\n\nIn short, BC pursued the Columbia River Treaty because it provided a unique opportunity for hydroelectric development that otherwise would not have been possible (due to the financial situation of the province during that period). It was the hope that these developments would promote industrial growth within the province and help expand the economy.\n\nUnder the terms of the agreement, Canada was required to provide 19.12 km³ (15.5 million acre-feet (Maf)) of usable reservoir storage behind three large dams. This was to be accomplished with 1.73 km³ (1.4 Maf) provided by Duncan Dam (1967), 8.76 km³ (7.1 Maf) provided by Arrow Dam (1968) [subsequently renamed the Hugh Keenleyside Dam], and 8.63 km³ (7.0 Maf) provided by Mica Dam (1973). The latter dam, however, was built higher than required by the Treaty, and thus provides a total of 14.80 km³ (12 Maf) including 6.17 km³ (5.0 Maf) of Non Treaty Storage space. Unless otherwise agreed, the three Canadian Treaty projects are required to operate for flood protection and increased power generation at-site and downstream in both Canada and the United States, although the allocation of water storage operations among the three projects is at Canadian discretion. The downstream power and flood control benefits in the United States created by the operation of Canada's Treaty reservoirs are shared by the two countries in accordance with Treaty provisions.\n\nThe Treaty also allowed the U.S. to build the Libby Dam on the Kootenai River in Montana which provides a further 6.14 km³ (4.98 Maf) of active storage in the Koocanusa reservoir. Although the name sounds like it might be of aboriginal origins, it is actually a concatenation of the first three letters from Kootenai / Kootenay, Canada and USA, and was the winning entry in a contest to name the reservoir. Water behind the Libby dam floods back into Canada, while the water released from the dam returns to Canada just upstream of Kootenay Lake. Libby Dam began operation in March 1972 and is operated for power, flood control, and other benefits at-site and downstream in both Canada and the United States. The U.S. did not pay Canada for the land submerged by the Libby Dam reservoir and Canada does not pay the U.S. for the resulting power and flood control benefits downstream on the Kootenay River.\n\nWith the exception of the Mica Dam, which was designed and constructed with a powerhouse, the Canadian Treaty projects were initially built for the sole purpose of regulating water flow. In 2002, however, a joint venture between the Columbia Power Corporation and the Columbia Basin Trust constructed the 185 MW Arrow Lakes Hydro project in parallel with the Keenleyside Dam near Castlegar, 35 years after the storage dam was originally completed. The Duncan Dam remains a storage project, and has no power generation facilities.\n\nThe Canadian and U.S. Entities defined by the Treaty, and appointed by the national governments, manage most of the Treaty required activities. The Canadian Entity is B.C. Hydro and Power Authority, and the U.S. Entity is the Administrator of the Bonneville Power Administration and the Northwestern Division Engineer for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Treaty also established a Permanent Engineering Board, consisting of equal members from Canada and the U.S., that reports to both governments annually on Treaty issues, any deviations from the operating plans, and assists the Entities in resolving any disputes.\n\nAs payment for the U.S. benefits realized by the Canadian storage operation, the Treaty required the U.S. to: \nThe Canadian Entitlement is calculated five years in advance for each operating year using an agreed treaty calculation method, and the amount varies mainly as a function of forecasted power loads, thermal generating resources, and operating procedures. The method gives Canada a \"first-added\" storage benefit that ignores U.S. dams built after 1961 (e.g. Libby and Dworshak), limits sales of surplus power to California, and excludes modern fish related constraints at U.S. dams. Without the first two of these limits, the Canadian Entitlement would be slightly less than one-half current values. The Canadian Entitlement during the August 2012 through July 2013 operating year is 504.5 average annual megawatts of energy (reduced by 3.4% for transmission losses, net ≈ 4,269 GWh), shaped hourly at peak rates up to 1321 MW (minus 1.9% for transmission losses, net = 1296 MW). The Canadian Entitlement is marketed by Powerex (electricity). The Canadian Entitlement varies from year to year, but is generally in the range of 4,400 GWh per year and about 1,250 MW of capacity.\n\nThe Treaty required the U.S. to pay a total of $64.4 million for the flood control benefits due to the operation of 8.45 Maf of Canadian storage. The payment was based on an allocation that:\n\nThe treaty has no end date, but it includes an option for either country to terminate most treaty provisions anytime after 60 years (i.e. 16 September 2024), given at least 10 years advance notice. If the treaty is terminated, several provisions continue including Called Upon flood control, operation and coordination of Libby, and Kootenay River diversion rights.\n\nThe Canadian and US governments are reviewing the treaty before the 2014 opportunity for notice for earliest termination. Options generally fall into three categories:\n\nThe BC and US governments launched websites to inform and engage citizens about the review.\n\nThere was initial controversy over the Columbia River Treaty when British Columbia refused to give consent to ratify it on the grounds that while the province would be committed to building the three major dams within its borders, it would have no assurance of a purchaser for the Canadian Entitlement which was surplus to the province's needs at the time. The final ratification came in 1964 when a consortium of 37 public and four private utilities in the United States agreed to pay C$274.8 million to purchase the Canadian Entitlement for a period of 30 years from the scheduled completion date of each of the Canadian projects. British Columbia used these funds, along with the U.S. payment of C$69.6 million for U.S. flood control benefits, to construct the Canadian dams.\n\nIn recent years, the Treaty has garnered significant attention, not because of what it contains, but because of what it is lacking. A reflection of the times in which it was negotiated, the Treaty's emphasis is on hydroelectricity and flood control. The \"Assured Operating Plans\" that determine the Canadian Entitlement amounts and establish a base operation for Canadian Treaty storage, include little direct treatment of other interests that have grown in importance over the years, such as fish protection, irrigation and other environmental concerns. However, the Treaty permits the Entities to incorporate a broad range of interests into the \"Detailed Operating Plans\" that are agreed to immediately prior to the operating year, and which modify the \"Assured Operating Plans\" to produce results more advantageous to both countries. For more than 20 years, the \"Detailed Operating Plans\" have included a growing number of fish-friendly operations designed to address environmental concerns on both sides of the border.\n\nBC Premier W.A.C. Bennett was a major player in negotiating the treaty and, according to U.S. Senator Clarence Dill, was a tough bargainer. The U.S. paid C$275 million, which accrued to C$458 million after interest. But Bennett's successor Dave Barrett was skeptical about the deal; he observed that the three dams and associated power lines ultimately cost three times that figure, in addition to other costs.\nDr. Hugh L. Keenleyside (for whom Keenleyside dam is named) dismissed these claims and other confusion about the Treaty benefits and costs in his 1974 paper \"Ten Year Later, The Results of the Columbia River Treaty.\" He explained that the original estimate of the cost of the Canadian dams was about C$411 million in 1963 dollars. Actual cost in 1973 dollars was about C$548 million, and this included $50 million in regional improvement beyond replacement of like for like. This was a 33% increase over ten years, and he noted that during that time the average cost of dams and reservoirs in Canada increased by 80%. The value of the U.S. power and flood control payments in 1973 dollars, which had increased with interest, was C$479 million; leaving a deficit of C$69 million. For this cost, B.C. was then able to add a power house at Mica, and later at Kootenay Canal, Revelstoke and Keenleyside, and construct transmission lines, to delivery power to major load centers far cheaper than alternatives. Since the end of the 30-year sale of the Canadian Entitlement to the U.S. in March 2003, the U.S. delivery of the Entitlement power to B.C. has been a benefit far greater than the C$5 million per year estimate by the Canadian government in 1964. The B.C. government reported in Dec. 2012 that the average annual revenue from the Canadian Entitlement power, which is marketed by POWEREX for the Province, over the previous ten years was C$202 million per year. Those revenues go into the Province's Consolidated Revenue Fund.\n\nVarious attitudes were generated from local residents who would be affected directly or indirectly by the construction of the Columbia River Treaty dams. BC Hydro had to relocate and compensate for peoples loss of land, and homes. In Arrow Lake 3,144 properties had to be bought and 1,350 people had to be relocated. With the construction of the Duncan Dam 39 properties were bought and 30 people moved, subsequently at Mica Dam 25 properties including trap lines and other economic resourceful lands were bought. Since Arrow Lake had the largest number of people needing to be relocated it generated the most controversy and varying of opinions. People who worked on the dam felt a sense of pride and purpose for being able to provide for their families on a long term basis. However, due to the exclusion of local hearings for the Treaty and the outcome of the Arrow Dam many residents felt powerless in the provinces decision to flood the area.\nIn response, the Columbia Basin Trust was established, in part, to address the long term socio-economic impacts in British Columbia that resulted from this flooding.\n\nJ.W Wilson who took part in the settlement agreement for BC Hydro noticed that while they looked at the physical value of the resident's houses they were unable to include the losses that went along with living self-sufficiently, which was a lifestyle that would not be possible in a city or urban area. The kind of wealth that went unnoticed consisted of agriculture, livestock, tourism and lumber. Paying minimal taxes also enabled a self-sufficient lifestyle with little cost. In addition, from an outsiders perspective it seemed as though BC Hydro was being fair with the resident's settlement prices for their land and homes. However many people thought that the settlement prices from BC Hydro were unfair, but were intimidated and felt powerless to challenge them in court, so they accepted the prices begrudgingly. The residents questioned what benefits the dam would have for them if they were just going to be relocated, and lose money in the long run. However, BC Hydro built new communities for those living from Nakusp to Edgewood, as part of the compensation process. These communities came with BC Hydro electricity, running water, telephone services, a school, a church, a park and stores. Finally, building the dam did provide work for many families, and supplied electricity to remote communities that were once out of reach of BC's transmission grid, and dependent on gas and diesel generators.\n\nDespite receiving physical reimbursement, Wilson argues that the emotional loss of peoples homes and familiar landscape could not be compensated, and increased the physical and psychological stress of relocating their homes and communities. The emotional loss was especially difficult for the First Nations people living around these areas. The Sinixt people who occupied the Columbia River Valley for thousands of years, lost sacred burial grounds, an extremely devastating experience for their community. Furthermore, the Sinixt were labeled as officially extinct by the Canadian government in 1953 despite many Sinixt people still being alive. It is questionable the timing of labeling these people extinct, with the quick follow up of signing the Columbia River Treat a few years after. With that in mind Indian Affairs of Canada had to power to possibly influence the signing of the dams in particular the Libby and Wardner Dam and potential cost of replacement as well as \"rehabilitating Indians\". However, due to the push to assimilate First Nations people into a cash based economy, and no reserves being physically affected by the dams, Indian Affairs had minimal participation and influence. Once again, like BC Hydro, Indian Affairs disregarded hunting, fishing, gathering, and sacred grounds as having either material, emotional or spiritual significance to First Nations people.\n\nThe objective of the International Joint Commission (IJC), with regard to the development of the Columbia River Basin, was to accomplish with the Columbia River Treaty (CRT) what would not have been possible through either British Columbia or the U.S. operating individually. It was expected that either additional costs would have been avoided or additional benefits gained by the cooperation between BC/Canada and the US. However, many felt that such expectations were left unrealized by the effects of the actual treaty. Soon after the treaty came into effect, it became apparent that greater combined returns had not necessarily been achieved than had each country continued operating independently. Others dispute that idea.\n\nOver the lifespan of the treaty, both positive and negative impacts have been felt by the province of British Columbia (BC). For BC, the positive impacts of the treaty have included both direct and indirect economic and social benefits. Direct benefits came in the form of better flood protection, increased power generation at both new and existing facilities, assured winter flows (for power) and the Canadian Entitlement power currently owed to BC by the U.S. (valued at approximately $300 million annually). At the beginning of the treaty, the province received lump sum payments from the U.S. for the sale of the Canadian Entitlement for 30 years and for the provision of 60 years of assured flood protection to the Northwestern States. Indirect benefits to the province have included the creation of employment opportunities for several thousand people in the construction and operation of dams as well as lower power rates for customers in both BC and the Northwestern U.S. Furthermore, many later developments in BC were made possible by the CRT because of water regulation provided by upstream storage. The Kootenay Canal Plant (1975), Revelstoke Dam (1984), 185 MW Arrow Lakes Generating Station and the Brilliant Expansion Project are examples of these developments. Another project made possible in part by the CRT was the Pacific DC Intertie, which was constructed in the U.S. and to this day remains a key part of the western power grid, facilitating easy trading of power between all parts of western Canada and the western U.S.\n\nHowever, for the province of BC, the impacts of the CRT were not entirely positive. By 1974, only ten years after the signing of the treaty, professors, politicians and experts across BC were divided on how beneficial it was to the province. Many said that the terms of the treaty would never have been accepted in their present day. The negative impacts of the CRT have affected both the economy and the environment of BC. Treaty revenue from U.S. was used to pay in part for the construction of the Duncan, Keenleyside and Mica dams, but the cost to BC to build the three dams exceeded the revenue initially received from the sale of downstream power and flood control benefits. The province also had to pay for improved highway, bridges, railway relocation, as well as welfare increases for the people affected by installation of the dams. Because of this deficit, it is alleged that school and hospital construction suffered, and services such as the Forest Service, highways and water resources were secretly tapped for funds.\n\nIt has become obvious, in retrospect, that the 30 year sale of the Canadian Entitlement was under estimated at the time of the treaty signing. W.A.C. Bennett's administration has often been criticized for being short-sighted in initial negotiations, but it was difficult to accurately value these agreements at the time. In 1960, Columbia River power produced half a million tons of aluminum for the U.S. By 1974, treaty power had increased this production threefold, hurting BC's own aluminum production, effectively exporting thousands of jobs in this industry. Further negative impacts include the flooding of approximately 600 km of fertile and productive valley bottoms to fill the Arrow Lakes, Duncan, Kinbasket and Koocanusa reservoirs. No assessment of the value of flooded forest land was ever made; land which could have produced valuable timber for the BC economy.\n\nThe Columbia River has the greatest annual drainage as compared to all other rivers along the Pacific coast. Before the introduction of dams on the river, the changes in water level rose and fell predictably with the seasons and a nine-meter displacement existed between the spring snowmelt highs and fall lows. After the dams were built, the river flows changed and in some areas the previous maximum and minimum water levels were altered by several tens of meters. High spring-summer flows were reduced, and fall-winter flows were increased to satisfy United States power demands. After the damming, the water during high floods began to cover much of the valley's arable land - and when it was drawn down to produce power it carried away fertile soil, leaving agricultural land useless. Additionally, it is estimated that the habitat of 8,000 deer, 600 elk, 1,500 moose, 2,000 black bears, 70,000 ducks and geese was flooded due to the creation of the reservoirs.\n\nThe introduction of a dam affects every living thing in the surrounding area, both up and downstream. Upstream change is obvious as water levels rise and submerge nesting grounds and migration routes for water fowl. As water levels in storage reservoirs change throughout the year, aquatic habitat and food source availability become unreliable. Plankton, a main staple of salmon and trout's diet, is especially sensitive to changes in water level. Nutrient rich sediment, that would previously have flowed downstream, becomes trapped in the reservoirs above dams, resulting in changes in water properties and temperatures on either side of the barrier. A difference in water temperature of 9 degrees Celsius was once measured between the Columbia and its tributary the Snake River. When silt settles to the bottom of the river or reservoir it covers rocks, ruins spawning grounds and eliminates all hiding place for smaller fish to escape from predators. Alteration in water quality, such as acidity or gas saturation, may not be visually dramatic, but can be deadly to certain types of aquatic life. The Columbia River, with its series of dams and reservoirs, is influenced by a complex combination of these effects, making it difficult to predict or understand exactly how the animal populations will react.\n\nSalmon and Steelhead trout travel from the ocean upriver to various spawning grounds. The construction of multiple dams on the Columbia threatened this fishery as the fish struggled to complete the migration upstream. All dams on the Columbia River downstream of Chief Joseph have fish ladders installed, from Wells to Bonneville Dam.\n\nMigration downriver is also problematic after dams are built. Pre-dam currents on the Columbia efficiently carried fry to the ocean, but the introduction of dams and reservoirs changed the flow of the river, forcing the young fish to exert much more energy to swim through slack waters. In addition, many fish are killed by the dam turbines as they try to swim further downstream. It is unclear exactly how many fish are killed in the turbines, but old estimates range between 8-12% per dam. If a fish hatches high upstream they will have to swim through multiple dams, leading to possible cumulative losses of over 50-80% of the migrating fry. Efforts to make turbines safer for fish to pass through have significantly reduced fish loses to near pre-dam levels. While hatcheries appear to be quite successful for some species of fish, their efforts to increase fish populations will not be effective until up and downstream migration is improved. There is no one solution to improving the salmon and trout populations on the Columbia as it is the cumulative effects of the dams, slack-water reservoirs, loss of habitat, pollution, and overfishing that are killing the fish.\nFrom 1965 to 1969, 27, 312 acres were logged along the Columbia River to remove timber from the new flood plain. The slashing of vegetation along the shoreline weakened soil stability and made the land susceptible to wind erosion, creating sandstorms. Conversely, in wet periods, the cleared areas turned into vast mud flats.\n\nIn the late 1940s, the BC Fish and Wildlife Branch began studying the impacts the dams were having on the area's animal inhabitants. Their findings resulted in a small sum being designated for further research and harm mitigation. Their work, in collaboration with local conservation groups, became focused on preserving Kokanee stock jeopardized by the Duncan Dam which ruined kilometers of spawning grounds key to Kokanee, Bull Trout, and Rainbow Trout survival. Since Rainbow and Bull Trout feed on Kokanee, it was essential Kokanee stock remained strong. As a result, BC Hydro funded the construction of Meadow Creek Spawning Channel in 1967, which is 3.3 km (2 miles) long, and at the time was longest human-made spawning ground and first made for fresh water sport fish. The channel supports 250,000 spawning Kokanee every year, resulting in 10-15 million fry, with the mean egg to fry survival rate at around 45%. BC Hydro has also provided some funding to Creston Valley Wildlife Management Area to help alleviate damage done by Duncan Dam to surrounding habitats. The area is a seasonal home to many unique bird species, such as Tundra Swans, Greater White-Fronted Geese and many birds of prey. Such species are sensitive to changes in the river as they rely on it for food and their nesting grounds are typically found quite close to the water. BC Hydro, in partnership with the Province of BC and Fisheries and Oceans Canada, has also been contributing to the Columbia Basin Fish and Wildlife Compensation Program since 1988.\n\nUnlike the Columbia's Canadian reach, the US portion of the river had already been heavily developed by the time the treaty entered into force. Because the US role in the agreement was largely to supply power generating capacity, and that capacity was already in place, it was not obligated to construct any new dams. While in the Upper Columbia, treaty dams meant the filling of large reservoirs, submerging large tracts of land, on the Lower Columbia no new dams had to be built. The local effects of dam construction were limited to those of the Libby Dam in Montana. The US was authorized to build this optional dam on the Kootenay River, a tributary of the Columbia. Lake Koocanusa, Libby Dam's reservoir, extends some distance into Canada.\n\nBecause this project involved a transboundary reservoir, it was slow to move from planning to construction. By 1966, when construction began, the environmental movement had begun to have some political currency. Environmental impact assessments found that this dam would be deleterious to a variety of large game animals, including big-horned sheep and elk. While the Libby Dam opened the possibilities of downstream irrigation, scientists determined that it would also destroy valuable wetland ecosystems and alter the river hydrology throughout the area of its extent, in the reservoir and far downstream.\nUnder pressure from environmental activist groups, the Army Corps of Engineers developed a mitigation plan that represents a major departure from the previous treaty dams. This plan addressed concerns about fish by building hatcheries, acquired land to serve as grazing areas for animals whose normal ranges were submerged, and implemented a technological fix as part of the dam project that enabled control of the temperature of water released from the dam.\n\nThe local environmental impact of the Libby Dam was to flood 40,000 acres (around 162 square kilometers), altering downstream and upstream ecosystems. This was the greatest direct environmental effect of the treaty in the United States. While the Libby Dam and Lake Koocanusa were the most visible results of the treaty in the US, there were long-ranging environmental implications of the new management regime. The increased storage capacity in the Upper Columbia dams afforded river managers a much greater degree of control over the river's hydrograph. Peak flows could now be more dramatically reduced, and low flows bolstered by controlled releases from storage. Peak power demands tend to occur in midwinter and midsummer, so river managers calibrate releases to coincide with periods of high demand. This is a dramatic change from the snowmelt-driven summer peak flows of the river prior to its development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11463166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11463166", "title": "Community court", "text": "Community court\n\nIn the United States and several other countries, including the United Kingdom, Canada, and South Africa, a community court is a neighborhood-focused problem-solving court that applies a problem-solving approach to local crime and safety concerns. Community courts can take many forms, but all strive to create new relationships, both within the justice system and with outside stakeholders such as residents, merchants, churches and schools. Community courts emphasize collaboration, crime prevention, and improved outcomes, including lower recidivism and safer communities. Community courts are also sometimes referred to as community or neighborhood justice centers.\n\nIn Australia, a community court is the name given to \"indigenous court\" proceedings conducted in the Magistrates Court of the Northern Territory. Australia also has a Neighbourhood Justice Centre in Collingwood, Victoria, based on the U.S.-style community court.\n\nThe first community court in the United States was the Midtown Community Court, launched in 1993 in New York City. The court, which serves the Times Square neighborhood of Manhattan, targets quality-of-life offenses, such as prostitution, illegal vending, graffiti, shoplifting, farebeating, and vandalism.\n\nOperated as a public/private partnership among the New York State Unified Court System, New York City, and the Center for Court Innovation the court initially opened as a three-year demonstration project, designed to test the ability of criminal courts to forge closer links with the community and develop a collaborative problem-solving approach to quality-of-life offenses.\n\nThe Midtown Court experiment was born of a profound frustration with the conventional response to quality-of-life crime. Supporters of the initiative, which included justice system innovators, business leaders and neighborhood residents, felt that the justice system did not take community concerns seriously. They also felt that a court could use its leverage to more effectively address the causes and conditions that contribute to crime.\n\nCourt planners sited the new court in a renovated 1896 building. The building featured clean, bright holding rooms secured with glass panels rather than bars, a pointed contrast to the typical holding pens. The new courthouse also included a full floor of office space for social workers to assist offenders. And the building was wired for an innovative computer system that would allow the judge, attorneys and social service workers to keep in touch with each other and quickly access a defendant's full record.\n\nOffenders at the Midtown Community Court are sentenced to pay back the community through work projects in the neighborhood—caring for street trees, getting rid of graffiti, cleaning subway stations and sorting recycled cans and bottles. At the same time, wherever possible, the court uses its legal leverage to link offenders with social services—drug treatment, health care, education—to help them address their problems. In these ways, the Midtown Community Court seeks to stem the chronic offending that demoralizes law-abiding residents.\n\nResearch conducted by the National Center for State Courts on the implementation and early effects of the Midtown Community Court over its first 18 months found that the project achieved its key operational objectives: to provide speedier justice; to make justice visible in the community where crimes take place; to encourage enforcement of low-level crime; to marshal the energy of local residents, organizations and businesses to collaborate on developing community service and social service projects; and to demonstrate that communities are victimized by quality-of-life offenses.\n\nThe researchers also credited the Midtown Court with changing conventional sentencing practices for low-level offenses, which were typically either sentences of \"time served\" (i.e., the time spent in jail between arrest and appearing in court) or short-term jail (a month or less). Sentencing at the Midtown Court produced significantly more intermediate sanctions than the city's conventional arraignment court. Intermediate sanctions included immediate assignment to community restitution projects (with offenders often beginning their sentences within 24 hours of their arraignments) to mandatory participation in social services, such as drug treatment or job training.\n\nIn addition, the researchers found \"substantial evidence\" that the Midtown Court contributed to improvements in quality-of-life conditions in Times Square and surrounding neighborhoods. Together, ethnographic observations of local crime and safety \"hot spots,\" interviews with offenders, analysis of arrest data, focus group interviews and interviews with local police, community leaders and residents pointed to substantial reductions in concentrations of prostitution and unlicensed vending. Arrests for prostitution in the Midtown neighborhood dropped by 56 percent over the first 18 months and arrests for unlicensed vending fell by 24 percent, reflecting a visible reduction in criminal activity on the streets. Community members also reported a marked reduction in graffiti along Ninth Avenue, the commercial strip that serves the residential community.\n\nBy 1997, the Court was arraigning an average of 65 cases per day for an annual total of over 16,000 cases. This volume made the Midtown Court one of the busiest arraignment courts in the city. In addition, sentenced offenders were performing the equivalent of $175,000 worth of community restitution work per year. The Midtown Court's emphasis on immediacy—offenders must report to the Court's community service or social service center immediately after sentencing—also improved compliance rates. Nearly 75 percent complete their community restitution sentences as mandated, the highest rate in the city.\n\nAccording to the Center for Court Innovation, community courts are animated by six key principles. They are:\n\n\nBy the end of 2010, there had been at least 19 separate evaluations conducted of community courts, including 11 impact studies, nine process evaluations, and three cost-benefit analyses. A 2012 evaluation of the District of Columbia Superior Court's East of the River Community Court found that the program brought down rates of re-offending among misdemeanor defendants.\n\nOver 30 community courts, inspired by the model of the Midtown Community Court, are in operation or planning around the U.S. Although different in many ways, the various U.S. community courts all strive to create new relationships, both within the justice system and with outside stakeholders, such as residents, merchants, churches and schools. They also test new and aggressive approaches to public safety.\nCommunity courts in the United States include: Downtown San Diego Community Court Project (opened in October 2002); Denver Community Court (opened in September 2003); Hartford Community Court (opened in November 1998); Waterbury (Connecticut) Community Court, opened in October 2000; Washington, D.C. – East of the River Community Court; Washington, D.C. – Traffic and Misdemeanor Community Court (opened in January 2002); West Palm Beach (Florida) Community Court, opened in August 1999; Westgate Community Justice Center in Palm Beach County, Florida (opened in May 2006); Atlanta Community Court (opened in March 2000); Indianapolis Community Court (opened in April 2001); Dakota County, Minnesota, Community Court (opened in October 2002); Minneapolis – Hennepin County Community Court (opened in June 1999); St. Paul (Minnesota) Community Court (opened in 2000); Babylon (New York) Community Court, (opened in September 2006); Harlem Community Justice Center (opened in May 2001); Hempstead (New York) Community Court (opened in June 1999); Red Hook ( Brooklyn, New York) Community Justice Center (opened in April 2000); Syracuse (New York) Community Court (opened in July 2001); Gresham (Oregon) Community Court (opened in March 1998); Westside Community Court in Portland, Oregon (opened in April 2001); Overland Park Community Court in Clackamas County, Oregon (opened in January 2005); Philadelphia Community Court (opened in February 2002);\nFrayser Community Court in Memphis, Tennessee (opened in February 2000); Whitehaven Community Court in Memphis, Tennessee (opened in September 2002); \nDowntown Austin Community Court (opened in October 1999); South Dallas/Fair Park Community Court (opened in October 2004); West Dallas Community Court (opened November 2008); San Antonio Community Court (opened in May 2006); Seattle Community Court (opened in March 2005).\n\nUSA Today reported that interest in community courts was growing, citing new courts in the works in Newark, N.J., among other cities.\n\nInterest in the American community court model is also increasing abroad. A report by the Open Society Institute issued in 2008 found that by the end of 2007, 52 community courts were operational around the globe. The report said an additional 27 new courts were slated to open in coming years.\n\nBased on the success of pilot community court projects in North Liverpool and Salford, in 2006 the British government announced plans to create 11 new community courts, all of which were up and running by early 2008. Seventeen community court projects are already in operation in South Africa. (In South Africa, the term \"community court\" also refers to a form of tribunal also known as Courts for Chiefs and Headmen; in these courts, an authorised African headman or his deputy may decide cases using indigenous law and custom, brought before him by an African against another African within his area of jurisdiction.)\n\nThe Collingwood Neighbourhood Justice Centre opened in Melbourne, Australia, in March 2007.\n\nThe Downtown Community Court opened in Vancouver, Canada, in 2008. The court addresses the Downtown Eastside neighborhood. The court seeks both to reduce the harm caused to the community by crime and use collaborative case management to help offenders make long-term changes to their behavior. However, Laura Track, a lawyer and housing campaigner for Vancouver's Pivot Society, says there's a legal log jam ahead unless the government invests millions more in housing and treatment programs. This new court is presided over by Justice Thomas Gove.\n\nA community court project is also being planned for Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nIn Australia, the \"community court\" is not an actual court, but is the commonly referred designation of the Court of Summary Jurisdiction of the Northern Territory when dealing with indigenous offenders accused of crime. This is to show its distinction from the usual procedures involved in that criminal court. The court commenced as a twelve-month trial in Darwin and still continues today. At present, the court only sits in Darwin. However, there is no barrier to the court sitting outside Darwin if the court determines that it is necessary to do so.\n\nThe court allows the involvement of the Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities in the sentencing process. It allows senior members of the local community to be involved in and express their views upon the particular and to be part of the sentencing process. The Court is conducted in a fairly informal manner and is conducted with a view to enhance the reaching of an agreement between the involved parties as to the most appropriate sentence to impose. The court is innovative in that it incorporates the victim of the actual crime into the restorative process.\n\nThe establishment of the court differs from other indigenous courts established around Australia. In Victoria and Queensland, each of those States have established separate and distinct courts to deal with indigenous offenders. Those courts are the Koori Court and the Murri Court respectively. The Community Court is not established as a court in its own right. The court is actually the Court of Summary Jurisdiction, which is the Territory's main criminal court dealing with summary criminal matters. Summary criminal matters are generally less serious criminal matters, as serious crime is dealt with the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory.\n\nThe court also differs in that it operates under guidelines established by the Chief Magistrate of the Northern Territory. Those guidelines are available on the Magistrates Court website. In other States, similar courts operate under special legislation. In New South Wales, this is the \"circle sentencing\" legislation which is heard by the Local Court of New South Wales. However, in practice, these distinctions make little difference to the manner in which each of the courts operate.\n\nParticipation in \"indigenous courts\" is voluntary, and offenders are eligible to participate only if they plead guilty to the offence or offences for which they have been charged. Participation in the program is available for any type of offence, although sexual assaults and domestic violence offences are usually not dealt with by the court. While participants in the court are involved in determining the appropriate sentence to be imposed upon an offender, the magistrate has the final say on the sentence imposed. In an Australian Law Reform Commission report, it was reported that participants in these types of court report higher levels of satisfaction with the system than the usual British based legal proceedings.\n\nAs the court is actually a Court of Summary Jurisdiction, the court is constituted by a magistrate. The magistrate presides, facilitates, and ultimately determines the appropriate sentence for the offender. The magistrate is assisted by at least one community representative. The community representative provides the court with information on the background of the offender, as well as being able to point out the aspects of the offence as they relate to the offender, the impacts they have on the community and the effect it has had on the victim of the crime.\n\nThe prosecutor continues to present the facts of the case and makes submissions as necessary on the crime. The offender participates in the process by agreeing to adhere to the community process involved. Lastly, the victim is encouraged to be part of the process and to outline the impact of the crime upon them. However, it is not compulsory for the victim to be involved if they do not wish to.\n\nThe court begins with the participants arranged in a circle in the venue. The presiding magistrate opens the court and explains the process of the court and the role of the various participants in the proceedings. Each participant introduces themselves, explaining who they, and their relationship to the offender. \nThe court clerk reads the charge and the offender reaffirms their earlier guilty plea to the community. The prosecutor reads out the \"fact\" of the crime. This is a narrative of the events that constitute the crime. This narrative has been agreed to before court as being accurate and a fair representation of what actually occurred. Each participant is then given an opportunity to speak about the offence. At the end of this, there may be a general discussion of the impact of the offence.\nAt the conclusion of this, the offender and the prosecutor make formal submissions to the court about the sentence. The community representatives then have an opportunity to make comments on those submissions. Lastly, the presiding magistrate determines the appropriate sentence to impose.\n\nAs the proceedings are actually a case in the Court of Summary Jurisdiction, all the usual appeal processes that apply in that court continue to apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "18199221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18199221", "title": "Directors' duties", "text": "Directors' duties\n\nDirectors' duties are a series of statutory, common law and equitable obligations owed primarily by members of the board of directors to the corporation that employs them. It is a central part of corporate law and corporate governance. Directors' duties are analogous to duties owed by trustees to beneficiaries, and by agents to principals.\n\nAmong different jurisdictions, a number of similarities between the framework for directors' duties exist.\n\n\nDirectors have Fiduciary Duties under general law in Australia. They are:\n\nDirectors also have duties under Corporations Act 2001: \n\nThere is an important distinction between the general law and statute in that there are different consequences when it comes for breach\n\nIn Canada, a debate exists on the precise nature of directors' duties following the controversial landmark judgment in \"BCE Inc. v. 1976 Debentureholders\". This Supreme Court of Canada decision has raised questions as to the nature and extent to which directors owe a duty to non-shareholders. Scholarly literature has defined this as a \"tripartite fiduciary duty\", composed of (1) an overarching duty to the corporation, which contains two component duties — (2) a duty to protect shareholder interests from harm, and (3) a procedural duty of \"fair treatment\" for relevant stakeholder interests. This tripartite structure encapsulates the duty of directors to act in the \"best interests of the corporation, viewed as a good corporate citizen\".\n\n\n\nDirectors are also strictly charged to exercise their powers only for a proper purpose. For instance, were a director to issue a large number of new shares, not for the purposes of raising capital but to defeat a potential takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions that would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution.\n\nDirectors must exercise their powers for a proper purpose. While in many instances an improper purpose is readily evident, such as a director looking to feather his or her own nest or divert an investment opportunity to a relative, such breaches usually involve a breach of the director's duty to act in good faith. Greater difficulties arise where the director, while acting in good faith, is serving a purpose that is not regarded by the law as proper.\n\nThe seminal authority in relation to what amounts to a proper purpose is the Privy Council decision of \"Howard Smith Ltd v. Ampol Ltd\". The case concerned the power of the directors to issue new shares. It was alleged that the directors had issued a large number of new shares purely to deprive a particular shareholder of his voting majority. The court rejected an argument that the power to issue shares could only be properly exercised to raise new capital as too narrow, and held that it would be a proper exercise of the director's powers to issue shares to a larger company to ensure the financial stability of the company, or as part of an agreement to exploit mineral rights owned by the company. If so, an incidental result (even desirable) that a shareholder lost his majority, or a takeover bid was defeated would not itself make the share issue improper. But if the sole purpose was to destroy a voting majority, or block a takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nNot all jurisdictions recognised the \"proper purpose\" duty as separate from the \"good faith\" duty however.\n\n\nThis represents a considerable departure from the traditional notion that directors' duties are owed only to the company. Previously in the United Kingdom, under the Companies Act 1985, protections for non-member stakeholders were considerably more limited (see e.g., s.309, which permitted directors to take into account the interests of employees but that could be enforced only by the shareholders, and not by the employees themselves. The changes have therefore been the subject of some criticism. Directors must act honestly and in \"bona fide\". The test is a subjective one—the directors must act in \"\"good faith\" in what they consider—not what the court may consider—is in the interests of the company...\" per Lord Greene MR. However, the directors may still be held to have failed in this duty where they fail to direct their minds to the question of whether in fact a transaction was in the best interests of the company.\n\nDifficult questions arise when treating the company too abstractly. For example, it may benefit a corporate group as a whole for a company to guarantee the debts of a \"sister\" company, even if there is no \"benefit\" to the company giving the guarantee. Similarly, conceptually at least, there is no benefit to a company in returning profits to shareholders by way of dividend. However, the more pragmatic approach illustrated in the Australian case of \"Mills v. Mills\" normally prevails:\n\n\"[directors are] not required by the law to live in an unreal region of detached altruism and to act in the vague mood of ideal abstraction from obvious facts which [sic] must be present to the mind of any honest and intelligent man when he exercises his powers as a director.\"\n\n\"money which [sic] is not theirs but the company’s, if they are spending it for the purposes which are reasonably incidental to the carrying on of the business of the company. That is the general doctrine. Bona fides cannot be the sole test, otherwise you might have a lunatic conducting the affairs of the company, and paying away its money with both hands in a manner perfectly bona fide yet perfectly irrational… It is for the directors to judge, provided it is a matter which is reasonably incidental to the carrying on of the business of the company… The law does not say that there are to be no cakes and ale, but there are to be no cakes and ale except such as are required for the benefit of the company.\"\n\n\n\nDirectors cannot, without the consent of the company, fetter their discretion in relation to the exercise of their powers, and cannot bind themselves to vote in a particular way at future board meetings. This is so even if there is no improper motive or purpose, and no personal advantage to the director.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that the board cannot agree to the company entering into a contract that binds the company to a certain course, even if certain actions in that course will require further board approval. The company remains bound, but the directors retain the discretion to vote against taking the future actions (although that may involve a breach by the company of the contract that the board previously approved).\n\nTraditionally, the level of care and skill a director must demonstrate has been framed largely with reference to the non-executive director. In \"Re City Equitable Fire Insurance Co\" [1925] Ch 407, it was expressed in purely subjective terms, where the court held that:\n\nHowever, this decision was based firmly in the older notions (see above) that prevailed at the time as to the mode of corporate decision making, and effective control residing in the shareholders; if they elected and put up with an incompetent decision maker, they should not have recourse to complain.\n\nHowever, a more modern approach has since developed, and in \"Dorchester Finance Co Ltd v Stebbing\" [1989] BCLC 498 the court held that the rule in \"Equitable Fire\" related only to skill, and not to diligence. With respect to diligence, what was required was:\n\nThis was a dual subjective and objective test, and one deliberately pitched at a higher level.\n\nMore recently, it has been suggested that both the tests of skill and diligence should be assessed objectively and subjectively; in the United Kingdom the statutory provisions relating to directors' duties in the new Companies Act 2006 have been codified on this basis.\n\n\nDirectors also owe strict duties not to permit any conflict of interest or conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the company. This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that,\n\n\"A corporate body can only act by agents, and it is, of course, the duty of those agents so to act as best to promote the interests of the corporation whose affairs they are conducting. Such agents have duties to discharge of a fiduciary nature towards their principal. And it is a rule of universal application that no one, having such duties to discharge, shall be allowed to enter into engagements in which he has, \"or can have\", a personal interest conflicting \"or which possibly may conflict\", with the interests of those whom he is bound to protect... So strictly is this principle adhered to that no question is allowed to be raised as to the fairness or unfairness of the contract entered into...\"\n\n\nAs fiduciaries, the directors may not put themselves in a position where their interests and duties conflict with the duties that they owe to the company. The law takes the view that good faith must not only be done, but must be manifestly seen to be done, and zealously patrols the conduct of directors in this regard; and will not allow directors to escape liability by asserting that his decision was in fact well founded. Traditionally, the law has divided conflicts of duty and interest into three sub-categories.\n\nBy definition, where a director enters into a transaction with a company, there is a conflict between the director's interest (to do well for himself out of the transaction) and his duty to the company (to ensure that the company gets as much as it can out of the transaction). This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that:\n\n\"A corporate body can only act by agents, and it is, of course, the duty of those agents so to act as best to promote the interests of the corporation whose affairs they are conducting. Such agents have duties to discharge of a fiduciary nature towards their principal. And it is a rule of universal application that no one, having such duties to discharge, shall be allowed to enter into engagements in which he has, \"or can have\", a personal interest conflicting \"or which possibly may conflict\", with the interests of those whom he is bound to protect... So strictly is this principle adhered to that no question is allowed to be raised as to the fairness or unfairness of the contract entered into...\"\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution.\n\nIn many countries there is also a statutory duty to declare interests in relation to any transactions, and the director can be fined for failing to make disclosure.\n\nDirectors must not, without the informed consent of the company, use for their own profit the company's assets, opportunities, or information. This prohibition is much less flexible than the prohibition against the transactions with the company, and attempts to circumvent it using provisions in the articles have met with limited success.\n\nIn \"Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver\" [1942] All ER 378 the House of Lords, in upholding what was regarded as a wholly unmeritorious claim by the shareholders, held that:\n\nAnd accordingly, the directors were required to disgorge the profits that they made, and the shareholders received their windfall.\n\nThe decision has been followed in several subsequent cases, and is now regarded as settled law.\n\nDirectors cannot, clearly, compete directly with the company without a conflict of interests arising. Similarly, they should not act as directors of competing companies, as their duties to each company would then conflict with each other.\n\n\nAs in most jurisdictions, the law provides for a variety of remedies in the event of a breach by the directors of their duties:\n\nS 176 A Duty not to accept benefits from third parties.\n\nA director must not accept financial or non financial benefits from third parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "15376280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15376280", "title": "Dumb pipe", "text": "Dumb pipe\n\nWith regard to a mobile network operator (MNO, or \"operator\"), the term dumb pipe, or dumb network, refers to a simple network that, with a high enough bandwidth to transfer bytes between the customer's device and the Internet without the need to prioritize content, can afford to be completely neutral with regard to the services and applications the customer accesses. The use of the term \"dumb\" refers to the fact that the network operator does not affect the customer's accessibility of the Internet such as by either limiting the available services or applications to its own proprietary portal (like a walled garden) or offer additional capabilities and services beyond simple connectivity (like a smart pipe, the term with which it contrasts). A dumb pipe primarily provides simple bandwidth and network speeds greater than the maximum network loads expected thus avoiding the need to discriminate between data types.\n\nAmong the commonly understood operational models for a MNO are the dumb pipe, the smart pipe, and the walled garden.\n\nA dumb network is marked by using intelligent devices (i.e. PCs) at the periphery that make use of a network that does not interfere with or manage an application's operation / communication. The dumb network concept is the natural outcome of the end to end principle. The Internet was originally designed to operate as a dumb network.\n\nIn some circles the dumb network is regarded as a natural culmination of technological progress in network technology. With the justification that the dumb network uniquely satisfies the requirements of the end to end principle for application creation, supporters see the dumb network as uniquely qualified for this purpose, as – by design – it is not sensitive to the needs of applications. The dumb network model can, in some ways, allow for flexibility and ease of innovation in the development of applications that is not matched by other models.\n\nOne widely regarded example of the operator \"dumb pipe\" scenario is Apple's iPhone. The iPhone enables its users to directly surf the Internet with its mobile Safari browser and connects to Apple's iTunes Store for purchasing ringtones and music instead of the operator's own portal. Operators such as AT&T Mobility cannot offer their traditional services (such as downloads of wallpapers, ringtones, games, applications, etc.) as Apple controls the total iPhone user experience. Operators must be content to provide only the network connectivity and bandwidth which the iPhone has tripled in some cities. In addition to losing valuable revenue opportunities with the customer, operators are rumored to pay Apple a percentage of the customer's monthly bill as well. While the iPhone is a good example of the dumb pipe, not everyone believes it will ultimately be bad for operators.\n\nAnother example of the operator dumb pipe / smart pipe dilemma is the upcoming deployment of WiMAX technology. Companies such as Sprint Nextel and Clearwire are looking into ways to deploy WiMAX with additional services to keep them from becoming dumb pipes.\n\nCritics of dumb network architecture posit two arguments in favor of \"intelligent\" networks. The first, that certain users and transmission needs of certain applications are more important than others and thus should be granted greater network priority or quality of service. An example is that of real time video applications that are more time sensitive than say, text applications. Thus video transmissions would receive network priority to prevent picture skips, while text transmissions could be delayed without significantly affecting its application performance. The second is that networks should be able to defend against attacks by malware and other bad actors.\n\nThe dumb network (and the end to end principle) was conceived of as an antithesis to the idea of a centralized intelligent computer network in which all applications were under central network control. A synthesis is taking place in the context aware networks. These networks allow intelligent devices to set up end-to-end applications as in the dumb network. However, they are aware of application needs and in the social and enterprise context in which the applications are being used. Thus the network can make decisions on resource allocation conflicts in light of the collective needs of all users and the purposes (social and enterprise) that guide them.\n\nAdvocates of dumb networks counter the first argument by pointing out that prioritizing network traffic is very expensive in monetary, technology, and network performance. Dumb networks advocates also consider the real purpose for prioritizing network traffic is to overcome insufficient bandwidth to handle traffic and not a network protocol issue. The security argument is that malware is an end-to-end problem and thus should be dealt with at the endpoints, and that attempting to adapt the network to counterattacks is both cumbersome and inefficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58072304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58072304", "title": "Extinctive prescription", "text": "Extinctive prescription\n\nExtinctive prescription is a legal term referring to the expiration of a legitimate inheritance as the result of prolonged failure to claim said inheritance. Extinctive Prescription is enshrined in United Kingdom by the Prescription Act 1832.\n"}
{"id": "42050754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42050754", "title": "Extradition law in the Philippines", "text": "Extradition law in the Philippines\n\nExtradition in the Philippines may come into effect when the Philippine government and an international government sign an agreement through a treaty to be ratified by their respective implementing bodies.\n\nThese are countries that have signed extradition treaties to the Philippines and have taken effect by ratification:\n\nThe United Kingdom extradition treaty was ratified by the Philippine senate in March 4 2014 and is now in force.Up until 2017 no actual person has been extradited from the Philippines to the United kingdom however a ongoing extradition of Gary Lee Johnson is awaiting decision from the UK ambassador as of January 2017.\n\nIndia, Vietnam and the United Kingdom have all signed extradition treaties with the Philippines .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55609730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55609730", "title": "Fact pattern", "text": "Fact pattern\n\nThe term fact pattern indicates a set of facts which entail some legal consequence. This fact pattern in turn may be analogized to other similar cases to form a constellation of cases, whether as binding law or merely persuasive evidence of law. The \"fact pattern\" is the minor premise of a legal syllogism. The major premise of a legal syllogism is a point of law. For example \"Murder is the killing of another human being with malice aforethought and without justification or excuse.\" is a major premise of a legal syllogism. The elements of the crime are killing (actus reus) and malice aforethought i.e. intentional action (mens rea). The defenses are a legal justification (e.g. self-defense) or excuse (e.g. no mens rea due to insanity). Note in this example no fact pattern has yet been given. One common example of a relevant fact pattern follows: \n\n\"The defendant did return home, at night and discovered a burglar in their house, armed, and then killed said burglar.\" \n\nThis is a fact pattern, and the fact pattern is the minor premise of the legal syllogism. The entailed conclusion of the legal syllogism is the judicial decision. \n\nOn these facts it is most likely no murder conviction would obtain as the legal conclusion to the syllogism because of the right to self defense and the lack of a duty to retreat in one's own home (\"castle doctrine\"). That is, this fact pattern would entail as legal conclusion that the killing was justified and thus no conviction for murder. There was an intentional killing in this hypothetical case, but it was not murder due to the justification of self-defense. Equivalent German legal terms are \"Tatbestand\" possibly also \"Fallkonstellation\" (=case constellation, i.e. a group of cases with similar fact patterns).\n"}
{"id": "23889442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889442", "title": "FinReg21", "text": "FinReg21\n\nFinReg21.com is an online media company that provides the latest news, commentary and expert content on Financial Services Regulation in the U.S. and around the world. FinReg21 was founded in March 2009, which is 6 months after the start of the 2008 Financial Crisis. David S. Evans is the Editor-In-Chief for FinReg21. David is an expert in economics, Financial Regulation, and the Payments industry. FinReg21.com is a joint venture between Market Platform Dynamics and Sift Groups.\n\nThere are six main components to FinReg21's website:\n\nThe website's editor-in-chief is David S. Evans of the University of Chicago and University of College London.\n\nThe News section of the website has two main components: Exclusive News and Aggregated News from the Web\n\nExclusive News\nThe Exclusive News portion of the website contains original content that is written by Darrell Delamaide, a reporter located in Washington, D.C. The exclusive news section boasts breaking headline news stories that is updated once per day.\n\nAggregated News from the Web\nThe Aggregated News portion of the website contains breaking Financial Regulatory news stories from top sources across the Web including the Reuters, Business Wire, and PR Newswire.\n\nThe Commentary section of the site is an aggregation of expert blogs from around the web as well as commentary from the LinkedIn Group, Proposals for the Reform of the Financial Services Industry. Some top bloggers that are aggregated on the site include Simon Johnson, Scott Sumner, Paul Krugman, and Daniel Kauffman.\n\nLombard Street is an online journal that is published bi-weekly. The journal typically features five articles and ranges a variety of topics from Banking Regulation, to Obama's Financial Plan, to Deposit Insurance. Some featured contributors are Richard Posner, Arnold Kling, Robert Litan and Viral Acharya.\n\nChannel 21 is FinReg21's multimedia channel. This section contains Expert Webcasts, Podcasts, and Power Player Profiles.\n\nExpert Webcasts \nThese Webcasts are done about once per week and they focus on the hot topics that are currently featured in the news. They are typically moderated by David S. Evans but some other moderators include Emilios Avgouleas and Geoffrey Manne.\n\nSome Featured Webcasts include:\n\nPodcasts\nPodcasts are expert to expert interviews that usually last about 30 minutes. Some experts that have been interviewed are Bill Isaac, John Reed and Laura Tyson.\n\nPower player Profiles\nThese profiles highlight important people in the Financial Services Industry.\n\nThe FinReg21 Library is devoted to providing book reviews, testimonies, and thought leadership about the financial services industry. Testimonies content is uploaded from the House Financial Services Committee and Books are updated with upcoming books.\n\nWho's Who is the community aspect to FinReg21.com. Its purpose is to bring together experts in the industry to interact and network with one another. There are Organization Profiles as well as Individual Profiles on Who's Who.\n"}
{"id": "17700492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17700492", "title": "Four Fs (legal)", "text": "Four Fs (legal)\n\nThe Four Fs is an informal term and mnemonic in English common law for fruit, fungi, flowers and foliage.\n\nPeople can gather the Four Fs so long as it is for personal use, and not for sale or commercial gain. This does not mean that people can enter land unlawfully to do so, but in areas where they can lawfully be, for example on a country park, or walking along a right of way, they are entitled to collect and take away the Four Fs.\n\nLike most common law this provision does not apply if some other legal provision over-rides it, for example the species in question is specially protected, say by listing in Schedule 8 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. The same act also prohibits uprooting of any wild plant without the landowner's permission, so the Four Fs only applies to picking, for example daisies in a public park; not to digging up, for example, bluebell bulbs or young trees. Another significant exception is that land made accessible through the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 is not subject to these rights.\n\nThis principle was put into statute in the Theft Act 1968 which states: \"A person who picks mushrooms growing wild on any land, or who pick flowers, fruit or foliage from a plant growing wild on any land, does not (although not in possession of the land) steal what he picks, unless he does it for reward or for sale or other commercial purpose. (For purposes of this subsection 'mushroom' includes any fungus, and 'plant' includes any shrub or tree.)\"\n\nLegal challenges to this right are unusual, and not always successful.\n\n"}
{"id": "4196064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4196064", "title": "Hours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention (Revised), 1935", "text": "Hours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention (Revised), 1935\n\nHours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention (Revised), 1935 was an International Labour Organization Convention that never came into force and was withdrawn.\n\nIt was established in 1935, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the partial revision of the Convention limiting hours of work in coal mines adopted by the Conference at its Fifteenth Session...\n\nThe convention did not come into force.\n\nThe principles contained in the convention were a revision of ILO Convention C31, Hours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention, 1931.\n\nThe convention was never brought into force, and was withdrawn at the ILO General Conference May 30, 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2849428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2849428", "title": "Huissier de justice", "text": "Huissier de justice\n\nA huissier de justice (literally French for \"justice usher\"), sometimes anglicized as judicial officer, is an officer of the court in France, Luxembourg, Belgium, Canada, Greece, Italy, and Switzerland. The officer is appointed by a magistrate of the court (or in France, by the Minister of Justice) and holds a monopoly on the service and execution of court decisions and enforceable instruments. Huissiers de justice also serve as formal witnesses to events (\"constat d'huissier\") in the manner of a notary public. \n\nThere is no exactly similar position in the English or American legal system, but the post is often translated as bailiff or process server because of the roughly similar function.\n\nAs a member of the legal profession, he acts in the service of process, responsible for delivering such documents and authenticating parties to whom they are delivered; proceeds in the enforcement and recovery of any court and legal claims, including bankruptcy, property claims, seizures, and evictions; issues court summonses (assignments and quotations); and performs other actions. He may also exercise authorizations of a Court of Appeals, and act in insurance and property actions. He has the monopoly right to call police hearings to guarantee execution of court orders, and to conduct non-monopoly activities such as amicable settlements, draft findings of private deeds, and offer limited legal advice. He also can authenticate character findings which may serve as evidence during litigation. Some elements of his statements cannot be challenged except by way of improbation.\n\n"}
{"id": "24280410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280410", "title": "INTO Queen's University Belfast", "text": "INTO Queen's University Belfast\n\nINTO Queen's University Belfast is a joint venture study centre set up jointly by Queen's University Belfast and INTO University Partnerships. Announced in July 2009, the international college provides foundation programmes, International Diplomas, Graduate Diplomas, and English for University Study programmes for international students. Its international foundation programme offers direct route to a range of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in areas such as (i) such as science, engineering, computing and mathematics; or (ii) in businesses, humanities and social sciences.\n\nIn January 2010, the Centre moved to newly refurbished premises at Lennoxvale within walking distance of both the University campus and Elms Village Student accommodation. Located within two Georgian Houses, the Centre offers learning for more than 400 international students.. Since establishment, more than 500 students have progressed to degree programmes at Queen's University Belfast alone with progression to a wide range of UK universities.\n\nINTO University Partnerships is a global organisation that works with universities worldwide on transformational internationalisation strategies through joint venture partnerships.It has a marketing network of over 600 agents and regional presence in 15 key countries. In 2008/09, there are over 4,600 students who have commenced their academic preparation and English language courses across the different centres in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25148200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25148200", "title": "Interim Independent Electoral Commission (Kenya)", "text": "Interim Independent Electoral Commission (Kenya)\n\nThe Interim Independent Electoral Commission of Kenya (IIEC) was set up on May 7, 2009. The commission was set up to replace the previously disbanded Electoral Commission of Kenya that was widely blamed for the election violence after the Kenyan general election, 2007. The commissioners were sworn in on May 11, 2009.\n\nCommissioners\n\nThe Interim Independent Electoral Commission was later replaced by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37291851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37291851", "title": "International labour law", "text": "International labour law\n\nInternational labour law is the body of rules spanning public and private international law which concern the rights and duties of employees, employers, trade unions and governments in regulating the workplace. The International Labour Organization and the World Trade Organization have been the main international bodies involved in reform labour markets. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have indirectly driven changes in labour policy by demanding structural adjustment conditions for receiving loans or grants. Conflict of laws issues arise, determined by national courts, when people work in more than one country, and supra-national bodies, particularly in the law of the European Union, has a growing body of rules regarding labour rights.\n\nInternational labour standards refer to conventions agreed upon by international actors, resulting from a series of value judgments, set forth to protect basic worker rights, enhance workers’ job security, and improve their terms of employment on a global scale. The intent of such standards, then, is to establish a worldwide minimum level of protection from inhumane labour practices through the adoption and implementation of said measures. From a theoretical standpoint, it has been maintained, on ethical grounds, that there are certain basic human rights that are universal to humankind. Thus, it is the aim of international labour standards to ensure the provision of such rights in the workplace, such as against workplace aggression, bullying, discrimination and gender inequality on the other hands for working diversity, workplace democracy and empowerment.\n\nWhile the existence of international labour standards does not necessarily imply implementation or enforcement mechanisms, most real world cases have utilised formal treaties and agreements stemming from international institutions. The primary international agency charged with developing working standards is the International Labour Organization (ILO). Established in 1919, the ILO advocates international standards as essential for the eradication of labour conditions involving \"injustice, hardship and privation\". According to the ILO, international labour standards contribute to the possibility of lasting peace, help to mitigate potentially adverse effects of international market competition and help the progress of international development.\n\nImplementation, however, is not limited to the ILO nor is it constrained to the legislative model that the ILO represents. Other alternatives include direct trade sanctions, multilateral enforcement, and voluntary standards. In addition to controversies that arise over each of these models, greater issues have also been raised concerning the debate over the need for international labour standards themselves. However, while critics have arisen, the international community has largely come to a consensus in favour of basic protection of the world’s labour force from inhumane practices.\n\nAssociated with the development of successful international labour standards is proper monitoring and enforcement of labour standards. Most monitoring occurs through the ILO, but domestic agencies and other NGOs also play a role in the successful monitoring of international labour standards.\n\nSince the industrial revolution the labour movement has been concerned how economic globalisation would weaken the bargaining power of workers, as their employers could move to hire workers abroad without the protection of the labour standards at home. In the Fourth Annual International Congress in 1869, the following was resolved:\n\nThe concept of protecting workers from the perils of labour environments dates all the way back to 14th-century Europe. The first example of the modern labor rights movement, though, came in response to the brutal working conditions that accompanied the onset of the Industrial Revolution in the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1802, the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed what is now known as the English Factory Act. The act sought to regulate the workday of apprentices by restricting work hours to 12 per day. In doing so, the English Factory Act served as a precursor to the models of international labour standards seen today. Minimal regulations similar to those found in English legislation subsequently became increasingly commonplace among 19th century industrialising nations. Early attempts at the provision of labour standards were limited in scope, though. Such conventions focused primarily on improving working conditions in relation to hours of work, women's and children's labour, and the use of hazardous materials. While it was evident that support for workers’ rights was inconsistent across international boundaries, activists originally only employed the use of moral suasion to deal with differences in labour standards. It was not until the latter parts of the 19th century that efforts were made to implement uniform standards on an international scale.\n\nIn 1919, following the end of the First World War, the agenda on international labour standards reached a new level of prominence as a result of the founding of the International Labour Organization. As mandated by Part XIII of the Treaty of Versailles, the ILO was created as a branch of the League of Nations in order to address all conceivable aspects of labour rights. Preliminary efforts focused primarily on the eradication of slavery and all forms of forced labour. The agenda quickly expanded, however, to include the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination in employment, and the elimination of child labour. The ILO’s creation marked the first instance of multiple major international actors coming together in an attempt to reach a consensus on universal workers’ rights. Despite a lack of any formal means of coercion, the ILO then urged its 44 original member countries to adopt and ratify conventions limiting oppressive labour market practices.\n\nIn the first two years of the ILO’s existence, 22 international labour conventions were adopted. Some of the topics that the first conventions addressed were “hours of work in industry, unemployment, maternity protection, night work for women, minimum age, and night work for young persons in industry.” In 1930, the ILO adopted the first future fundamental convention: the Forced Labour Convention (No.29), which prohibited all forms of forced labour unless exempted by certain conditions.\nWith the onset of the Great Depression, the United States joined the ILO in 1934 noting that complex labour issues would require an international response. Throughout the history of the League of Nations, the ILO is the only League-affiliated organisation that the United States joined. With the backdrop of World War 2, the ILO broadened its mandate with the Declaration of Philadelphia, signed during the 26th general conference session in 1944. The Declaration of Philadelphia, which is attached to the general constitution of the ILO, foreshadows some of the ILO’s earliest future fundamental conventions including the freedom of expression and association which was adopted in 1948 as Convention 87, Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, global divisions of labour were shaped largely by the practices of colonialism. Poorer countries exported natural resources to richer countries, which then manufactured and produced specialised goods. As many colonised nations achieved independence, developing nations in the global South took on increasingly protectionist policies in attempts to build up the manufacturing sectors of their economies, thus marking a shift in the global division of labour. However, towards the latter part of the 20th century, a number of factors saw protectionist measures fall. Such factors included rising labour costs in the north, advances in transportation and communication technologies, the liberalisation of trade, and the deregulation of markets. In the midst of a changing international labour landscape, developing nations in the south took on a previously unseen domination of the labour-intensive manufacturing industry.\n\nWith the deregulation of major markets and significant increases in the volume of international trade, attempts to make manufacturing sectors more attractive to retailers saw extreme downward pressure placed on the quality of working conditions in lower income regions of the world. This gave rise to growing concerns about a global Race to the bottom, in which governments take part in the iterative loosening of labour protections in attempts to aid the international competitiveness of export-oriented industries. Fears of this nature consequently produced the notable increases in the discourse on international labour ethics that characterise the contemporary international human rights arena.\n\nThe traditional model of labour standards regulation has been, for most of history, within-country or within-jurisdiction legislation and enforcement. However, this model may not be appropriate when competitors in a product market are located in different countries or jurisdictions with dissimilar labour standards. This concern opens up the discussion for the establishment of international labour standards, which, in turn, require international regulation, particularly in the context of global trade. However, determining an effective method of implementation of international labor standards has been an area of difficulty and an area that is highly contested. The following sections outline several existing models for the regulation of international labour standards based largely on work by Richard N. Block, Karen Roberts, Cynthia Ozeki and Myron J. Roomkin in their paper titled \"Models of International Labour Standards\".\n\nThe legislative model for implementing a set of international labour standards is the best known. This model involves the enactment and enforcement of labour standards by a legislative body across a union of countries. Social policies regarding employment and labour typically fall into three areas: free movement of labour, prevention of social dumping via low labour standards, and dialogue between labour and management. This model has been adopted by the European Community, part of the European Union, and is also the model taken by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Organisations, such as these, are given the authority, through a series of procedures, to then issue directives in any of these areas of labour policy. Member states must comply with these directives; however, what compliance actually means and entails is left to the discretion of each member state.\n\nFor over 25 years, there have been links between labour standards and international trade, particularly for specific commodities. The earliest and broadest-based example of linking international labour standards with trade is found in U.S. legislation under the Trade Act of 1974, creating the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, the United States was allowed to grant nonreciprocal tariff preference to less developed countries, based on certain country and product eligibility criteria, in order to promote their economic growth and development. Among the country eligibility criteria is affording workers in a country certain internationally recognized rights, similar to the four core conventions established by the ILO. If a complaint or petition was filed against a GSP beneficiary, these are processed through the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Since 1988, eight countries have been suspended or terminated from the GSP program: Burma, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan (several products), Sudan and Syria. Four countries have been suspended but subsequently reinstated: Central African Republic, Chile, Paraguay, and Romania. Additionally, Section 2202 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 requires that the Secretary of State submit to Congress an annual report on the economic policy and trade practices of each country with which the United States has an economic or trade relationship.\n\nThe trade sanctions model in the United States, also working as an incentives approach of sorts, appears to have been successful in forcing U.S. officials to encourage countries that are the subject of complaints to address severe violations of labour standards, as defined in the legislation. This model, however, is not designed to be a broad-based guarantee of labour standards among trading partners because it is based on external complaints not the results of monitoring. While it is effective in providing procedural rights, a lower percentage of trading partners provide substantive standards, so this measure has had mixed success. Some hope that implementation in competitor developing countries along with support by complementary domestic policies would allow this model to overall, raise the global social floor.\n\nAnother example of the various methods of implementation of international labour standards is the multilateral enforcement model. The model, embodied in the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation (NAALC), is different from other compulsory methods in that it opposes any imposition of common standards schemes. Instead, the multilateral enforcement model requires that signatories to agreements like the NAALC make firm commitments to existing labor standard structures within their respective domestic spheres. The unique aspect of the NAALC, however, is that it does not in any way dictate policy. This includes a strong aversion to uniformly adopted standards on the international level. Rather than encouraging the inclusion of a baseline set of workers’ rights, the multilateral enforcement model merely requires that its members strive to create unbiased administrative bodies that judge whether or not appropriate measures are being taken to ensure the continued support of domestic labour standards. In this manner, the multilateral model is not international in its adoption of a common set of principles, but rather in its level of required commitment to an unspecified group of standards. In enforcing such commitments, agreements like the NAALC primarily utilize recommendations and publicity to make decision makers accountable for their actions. Multilateral enforcement models like the NAALC have experienced mixed results in terms of effectiveness due to their limited powers of influence.\n\nThe voluntary standards model makes reference to a system of implementation for labour standards based on a corporate code of conduct. Corporate codes of conduct are adopted when various organizations join together in agreement to operate under a set of socially responsible labour rules. Therefore, this model generally involves voluntary behaviour and self-regulation. An example of voluntary corporate adoption of labour standards is given by the Sullivan Principles in South Africa that were taken on by a group of U.S. companies. Additionally, U.S. apparel retailers, such as Nike, the Gap, and Liz Claiborne, have recently attempted to put in place a system of regulations to prevent their products from being produced under sweatshop conditions.\n\nFor this model to be successful, there must be incentive for compliance. The problem, however, is that in the case of labour standards, there are usually high economic incentives to disregard these standards, which are viewed as rises in production costs. For this reason, the monitoring system plays a crucial role in the success and effectiveness of such conditions. In some cases, like the aforementioned Sullivan Principles in South Africa, monitoring has demonstrated the codes’ success. In this case, investors rewarded adherence to the code, as a sign of corporate citizenship. On the other hand, consumers can also punish firms they see as socially irresponsible by means of boycotts or the individual decision to avoid purchase of certain products. The main point of these examples being: where there is strong pressure from investors and consumers to support certain standards, companies may benefit by being seen as upholding accepted morals.\n\nNow, while this is true, it is also true that where costs of complying with stringent standards are high and the sources of consumer pressure diffused, codes are likely to be ineffective. It takes the active involvement and interest of the company, in response to whatever actions have been taken, for this model to be successful. When they choose to respond to outside pressures, companies use means such as public announcements, local religious leaders, human rights activists, university professors, and labor representatives, among others, to implement compliance and a system of monitoring. Another difficulty has been that, while pressure has been effectively pressed on individual firms, it has been difficult to find agreement at an industry level, in terms of corporate codes.\n\nFinally, a variation of the voluntary standards models is one of certification, which began in October 1997 with the issuance of SA (Social Accountability) 8000 by the Council on Economic Priorities Accrediting Agency (CEPAA). SA8000 is an example of a corporate certification process for social responsibility and labor standards. This certification process has the purpose of identifying corporations that comply with certain criteria based on social accountability requirements, including criteria for child labor and worker health and safety. The resulting certification then serves the purpose of assuring customers that goods and services provided by certified firms have been produced by workers who are offered labour standards that meet at least a minimally acceptable level.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) is a specialised agency of the United Nations, consisting of 187 member countries, that deals with labour issues. Following World War I, the Treaty of Versailles contained the first constitution of a new International Labour Organization founded on the principle that \"labour is not a commodity\", and for the reason that \"peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice\". The primary role of the ILO has been to coordinate principles of international labour law by issuing Conventions, which codify labour laws on all matters. Members of the ILO can voluntarily adopt and ratify the conventions by enacting the rules in their domestic law. For instance, the first Hours of Work (Industry) Convention, 1919 requires a maximum of a 48-hour week, and has been ratified by 52 out of 185 member states. The UK ultimately refused to ratify the Convention, as did many current EU members states, although the Working Time Directive adopts its principles, subject to the individual opt-out. The present constitution of the ILO comes from the Declaration of Philadelphia 1944, and under the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1998 classified eight conventions as core. Together these require freedom to join a union, bargain collectively and take action (Conventions Nos 87 and 98) abolition of forced labour (29 and 105) abolition labour by children before the end of compulsory school (138 and 182) and no discrimination at work (Nos 100 and 111). Compliance with the core Conventions is obligatory from the fact of membership, even if the country has not ratified the Convention in question. To ensure compliance, the ILO is limited to gathering evidence and reporting on member states' progress, so that publicity will put public and international pressure to reform the laws. Global reports on core standards are produced yearly, while individual reports on countries who have ratified other Conventions are compiled on a bi-annual or perhaps less frequent basis.\n\nThe ILO, by its existence, is the recognised international vehicle for raising international labour standards issues in a worldwide forum. No other model in existence is capable of performing this role. This organisation establishes labour standards by means of both conventions and recommendations and has a tripartite governing structure – representing government, employers and workers. While ILO recommendations take more of the role of providing mere guidance to member states, the stronger form, ILO conventions, have the status of a treaty, which, in principle, is binding on the member countries that voluntarily ratify them. These represent benchmarks of strong labour standards towards which countries can strive by promulgating and enforcing national laws that comply with the conventions. It is through these means that the organisation works to enforce international labour standards.\n\nIn 1998, the ILO International Labour Conference adopted the “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work” defining certain rights as “fundamental.” The Declaration commits member states to respect and promote these main principles, referred to as the core conventions, which are grouped into the following four categories (total of eight ILO conventions): freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced or compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Declaration claims these rights to be universal, applying to all people in all States – regardless of level of economic development. The International Labour Conference regards these principles as so important that all member counties are obligated to comply with them, regardless of ratification status.\n\nAlongside the fundamental conventions, the ILO has also identified four priority conventions or governance conventions. Crucial to the running of the international labour standards systems implemented by the ILO, the ILO recommends that member states ratify the following priority conventions: the Labour Inspection Convention (1947), the Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention (1969), the Triparte Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention (1976), and the Employment Policy Convention (1964).\n\nIssues with the ILO’s approach to implementing international labour standards come down to a question of universality amongst the conventions and member countries, with some arguing that flexibility is necessary to meet the needs of developing countries. These concerns gather around the idea that the race to expand exports or attract foreign investment can cause competition on the basis of labour costs, leading to a decline in international labour standards as governments either dismantle national laws that protect workers or weaken the enforcement of these laws. The underlying issue here is the connection between national incomes and the standards a country can feasibly support while remaining competitive. Other issues involve enforcement of these standards following ratification. The ILO provides a vehicle for investigating cases of noncompliance through representations, filed by employer or worker organisations, or complaints, lodged by another member that also ratified the convention. These are then sent to a committee that launches an investigation and report. This is followed by either acceptance of recommendations on steps the government may take to address the complaint or the request to submit the case to the International Court of Justice. Failure to comply may result in an incurred sanction from the organization. \n\nOverall, the ILO structure essentially created a system of voluntary compliance with labor standards based on ratification of the established conventions. In general the enforcement system of representation and complaints has been successful – success being measured by the fact that only one representation or complaint has reached the most severe sanction. On the other hand, due to the absence of strong sanctions, the ILO lacks a strong enough deterrent factor for countries inclined to violate the standards the ILO upholds. Further, the “flexibility” of standards allows too much leeway for adaptation based on independent circumstances, diminishing the force of the conventions.\n\nBecause the ILOs enforcement and sanction mechanisms are weak, there has been significant discussion about incorporating labour standards in the World Trade Organization's operation, since its formation in 1994. The WTO oversees, primarily, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which is a treaty aimed at reducing customs, tariffs and other barriers to free import and export of goods, services and capital between its 157-member countries. Unlike for the ILO, if the WTO rules on trade are contravened, member states who secure a judgment by the Dispute Settlement procedures (effective a judicial process) may retaliate through trade sanctions. This could include reimposition of targeted tariffs against the non-compliant country. Proponents of an integrated approach have called for a \"social clause\" to be inserted into the GATT agreements, for example by amending article XX, which gives an exception to the general trade barrier reduction rules allowing imposition of sanctions for breaches of human rights. An explicit reference to core labour standards could allow action where a WTO member state is found to be in breach of ILO standards. Opponents argue that such an approach could backfire and undermine labour rights, as a country's industries, and therefore its workforce, are necessarily harmed but without any guarantee that labour reform would take place. Furthermore, it was argued in the Singapore Ministerial Declaration 1996 that \"the comparative advantage of countries, particularly low-age developing countries, must in no way be put into question.\" Accordingly, it is argued that countries ought to be able to take advantage of low wages and poor conditions at work as a comparative advantage in order to boost their exports. Similarly it is disputed that business will relocate production to low wage countries from higher wage countries such as the UK, because that choice depends mostly on productivity of workers. The view of many labour lawyers and economists remains that more trade, in the context of weaker bargaining power and mobility for workers, still allows for business to opportunistically take advantage of workers by moving production, and that a coordinated multilateral approach with targeted measures against specific exports is preferable. While the WTO has yet to incorporate labour rights into its procedures for dispute settlements, many countries began to make bilateral agreements that protected core labour standards instead. Moreover, in domestic tariff regulations not yet touched by the WTO agreements, countries have given preference to other countries who do respect core labour rights, for example under the EU Tariff Preference Regulation, articles 7 and 8.\n\nWhile the debate over labour standards applied by the ILO and the WTO seeks to balance standards with free movement of capital globally, conflicts of laws (or private international law) issues arise where workers move from home to go abroad. If a worker from America performs part of her job in Brazil, China and Denmark (a \"peripatetic\" worker) or if a worker is engaged in Ecuador to work as an expatriate abroad in France, an employer may seek to characterise the contract of employment as being governed by the law of the country where labour rights are least favourable to the worker, or seek to argue that the most favourable system of labour rights does not apply. For example, in a UK labour law case, \"Ravat v Halliburton Manufacturing and Services Ltd\" Mr Ravat was from the UK but was employed in Libya by a German company that was part of the American multinational oil conglomerate, Halliburton. He was dismissed by a supervisor based in Egypt. He was told he would be hired under UK law terms and conditions, and this was arranged by a staffing department in Aberdeen. Under the UK Employment Rights Act 1996 he would have a right to unfair dismissal, but the Act left open what the territorial scope of the statute was. The UK Supreme Court held that the principle would be that for an expatriate worker, although the general rule is that they will not have UK labour law rights, there would be an exception if the worker could show a \"close connection\" to the UK, and this was established through the contractual assurances given to Mr Rabat.\n\nThis fits within the general framework in the EU. Under the EU Rome I Regulation article 8, workers will have employment rights of the country where they habitually work. But exceptionally they may have a claim in another country if they can establish a close connection to it. The Regulation emphasises that the rules should be applied with the purpose of protecting the worker.\n\nIt is also necessary that a court has jurisdiction to hear a claim. Under the Brussels I Regulation article 19, this requires the worker habitually works in the place where the claim is brought, or is engaged there.\n\nThe European Community (EC) is a multigovernmental legislative structure that, through the Treaty of European Union (Maastricht) in 1992, the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997, and various other agreements has promoted full economic integration of its member states. While it has issued a number of directives in non-labour areas, the same cannot be said for matters concerning social policy and labour. However, some restrictions regarding health and safety have been adopted by the EC in an attempt to mitigate any inhumane practices, involving low health and safety standards, used for the sake of a competitive advantage.\n\nThe European Union, unlike most international organisations, has an extensive system of labour laws, but officially excluding (according to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) matters around direct wage regulation (e.g. setting a minimum wage), fairness of dismissals (e.g. a requirement for elected workers to approve dismissals) and collective bargaining. A series of Directives regulate almost all other issues, for instance the Working Time Directive guarantees 28 days of paid holiday, the Equality Framework Directive prohibits all forms of discrimination for people performing work, and the Collective Redundancies Directive requires that proper notice is given and consultation takes place before any decisions about economic dismissals are finalised.\n\nHowever, the European Court of Justice has recently expanded upon the Treaties through its case law. As well as having legal protection for workers rights, an objective of trade unions has been to organise their members across borders in the same way that multinational corporations have organised their production globally. In order to meet the balance of power that comes from ability of businesses to dismiss workers or relocate, unions have sought to take collective action and strikes internationally. However, this kind of coordination was recently challenged in the European Union in two controversial decisions. In \"Laval Ltd v Swedish Builders Union\" a group of Latvian workers were sent to a construction site in Sweden on low pay. The local Swedish Union took industrial action to make Laval Ltd sign up to the local collective agreement. Under the Posted Workers Directive, article 3 lays down minimum standards for workers being posted away from home so that workers always receive at least the minimum rights that they would have at home in case their place of work has lower minimum rights. Article 3(7) goes on to say that this \"shall not prevent application of terms and conditions of employment which are more favourable to workers\". Most people thought this meant that more favourable conditions could be given than the minimum (e.g. in Latvian law) by the host state's legislation or a collective agreement. However, in an interpretation seen as astonishing by many, the ECJ said that only the posting state could raise standards beyond its minimum for posted workers, and any attempt by the host state, or a collective agreement (unless the collective agreement is declared universal under article 3(8)) would be an infringement of the business' freedom to provide services under TFEU article 56. This decision was implicitly reversed by the European Union legislature in the Rome I Regulation, which makes clear in recital 34 that the host state may allow more favourable standards. However, in \"The Rosella\", the ECJ also held that a blockade by the International Transport Workers Federation against a business that was using an Estonian flag of convenience (i.e. saying it was operating under Estonian law to avoid labour standards of Finland) infringed the business' right of free establishment under TFEU article 49. The ECJ said that it recognised the workers' \"right to strike\" in accordance with ILO Convention 87, but said that its use must be proportionately to the right of the business' establishment. The result is that the European Court of Justice's recent decisions create a significant imbalance between the international freedom of business, and that of labour, to bargain and take action to defend their interests.\n\nFor those members within the EC who favour the implementation of labour standards, there has been a push to ease the decision-making barriers to social legislation. On 7 February, 1992, the signing of the Maastricht Treaty made it easier to pass legislation on less controversial issues, such as health and safety, nondiscrimination, and consultation with workers.\n\nWhile the EC provides a structure for enacting legislation that applies across counties, the extent to which it can actually create international labour standards, even within its own confines, is limited. While these directives allow for labour concerns to be brought above the national level, the presence of philosophical differences among member states as well as constraints on state autonomy demonstrate barriers to this model. However, despite these difficulties and a complex decision-making structure designed to include consultation with the governments of all member states, the various EC policy-making institutions and the related parties have succeeded in creating cross-national legislation for labour standards under its social policy umbrella. Consequently, this model, as demonstrated by the EC, is a viable one for establishing labour standards on a cross-national basis. The difficulty lies in the duplication of this model elsewhere, due to the EC’s unique, integrated community that is the only such general multinational standard system in the world today.\n\nA crucial element to the success of international labour standards is proper monitoring and enforcement. When monitoring international labor standards, agencies rely on three major types of information: information from international organisations, like the ILO, information from national agencies, and information from non-governmental organizations. Upon locating and determining the necessary data, monitoring agencies then need to process and sift through the results to analyze compliance with certain international labor standards. Finally after compliance analysis, recommendations and required adjustments are then communicated to the concerned party.\n\nOne of the major sources of data necessary for the monitoring of international labour standards is the International Labour Organization. According to Article 22 of the ILO Constitution, “each of the members agrees to make an annual report to the International Labour Office on the measures which it has taken to give effect to the provisions of Conventions to which it is a party.” Specifically, countries are mandated to prepare a report every two years for the Core Labour Standards of the ILO and every five years for all other active conventions that the country has ratified, which are submitted, to the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations and the Conference Committee on the Application of Standards. For conventions that have not yet been ratified by the country, Article 19 of the ILO Constitution mandates countries to demonstrate on regular intervals steps “they have taken to give effect to any provision of certain conventions or recommendations, and to indicate any obstacles which have prevented or delayed the ratification of a particular convention.” All of the above combine to form the ILO’s regular system of supervision.\n\nThe ILO also has a special procedures type of supervisory mechanism where complaints levelled against member states and freedom of association complaints are dealt with. Under articles 24 and 26 of the ILO Constitution, different groups of people may indicate to the governing body that a certain state is not complying with an international labor standard that they have previously ratified. Within the ILO framework, the labor standard regarding the freedom to associate has also received a special priority which allows complaints to be brought up to the governing body even if the state has not ratified the conventions regarding the freedom of association.\n\nOther international organisations like the United Nations and the World Bank also monitor international labour standards. The United Nations largely relies on self-reported data from member states. These data points are used to determine whether or not member states are meeting the requirements of international treaties agreed to by the United Nations. Given that the ILO is a subset of the UN, generally, more detailed labour standards data and compliance records are located within the realm of the ILO. The World Bank incorporates the international standards set by the ILO as one of the factors behind assistance to member states.\n\nNational agencies and NGOs also monitor international labour standards. National agencies generally report on domestic compliance of international labour standards while NGOs are much more diverse in their scope.\n\nSeveral challenges, however, exist in the monitoring of international labour standards. The ILO and other international organisations generally rely on self-reporting data from countries. Some analysts have questioned the quality and neutrality of these sources of data. For example, definitions of what constitutes unemployment vary from country to country making it difficult to compare data and to judge data quality. Additionally, despite the large amount of data, there are still gaps in their coverage. Coverage is greatest in the urban environments and the formal sector. Conversely, gaps exist in the coverage of rural environments and informal sectors which can positively skew the labour statistics that countries report.\n\nChallenges also exist in the usage of data to assess compliance with various international labour standards. As interest continues to grow in the monitoring and enforcement of international labour standards, an assessment, according to the National Research Council, “requires careful analysis of what the core labor standards mean and imply, how to determine when a country is or is not in compliance, what indicators of compliance and which sources of information to use, and limitations of the sources of information.” Standardisation will be necessary to allow proper and effective monitoring of labor standards.\n\nWorkplace discrimination, overt and covert, is an example of violations of international labour standards. The ILO defines workplace discrimination as “treating people differently because of certain characteristics, such as race, colour, or sex, which results in the impairment of equality and of opportunity and treatment.” An overt example of workplace discrimination is unequal pay, especially between men and women. Though recognized as an example of workplace discrimination since 1919, the gender pay gap, often a measurement of unequal pay, is estimated to be 22.9%, which means that for every dollar earned by a man, a woman, in the same position would earn 77.1 cents. Despite the fact that the ILO proposes that there are many benefits to reducing and eliminating the gender pay gap, at the current, slow rates of gender pay reduction, the ILO estimates that “another 75 years will be needed to bridge this gap.”\n\nJob security is another arena where workplace discrimination can be found. In some developing countries, like Bangladesh, job insecurity reflects patriarchal societies that have diminished women’s options. Currently in Bangladesh, of the 1.8 million workers in garment factories, 1.5 million are women. From the perspective of the factory owners, the advantage of hiring woman is the “docility that comes with disadvantage.” Women have fewer opportunities than men when it comes to decent, respectable employment. For many of these women, if they were to lose their jobs at the garment factories, they would be forced into poverty or work in the informal sector, like prostitution.\n\nOther forms of discrimination, outside of gender discrimination, include discrimination based on race & ethnicity, age, religion, political opinions, social origins, disabilities, sexual orientations, genetics, and lifestyle. The ILO identifies all these forms of discrimination as violations of international labor standards.\n\nAccording to the ILO, child labor is “work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental development.” The ILO classifies work conducted by children into three categories: children in employment, child labor, and hazardous work. The ILO condemns both child labor and hazardous work with the goal of eliminating hazardous child labor by 2016. In 2012, the ILO estimated that 168 million children (11% of the world’s children) were engaged in child labour, of which, 85 million engaged in hazardous work. ILO Convention No. 5 adopted in 1919 and entered into force in 1921 was the first ILO convention regulating child labour. Specifically, the main provision of the article stated “children under the age of fourteen years shall not be employed or work in any public or private industrial undertaking.” Since its inception in 1919, several other ILO conventions had been adopted that have modified and expanded the initial 1919 convention. Today, the C138 Minimum Age Convention, 1973 and C182 Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention 1999 have replaced all the previous conventions. The Minimum Age Convention defines the minimum age children are allowed to work. Children, unless under special allowances, are not allowed to engage in hazardous work until the age of 18. The basic minimum age for child labor is 15 (14 for developing countries), and the minimum wage for light work, which may not interfere with education or vocational orientation and training, is 13 (12 for developing countries). C182 urges all governments to take immediate action to identify and eliminate the worst forms of child labour.\nThe following are defined as hazardous work according to the ILO:\n\nThe majority of UN Member States has ratified both C138 and C182. The Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (C182) has been ratified by 177 nations, while 8 countries (Cuba, Eritrea, India, Marshall Islands, Myanmar, Palau, Somalia, Tuvalu) have yet to ratify it. The Minimum Age Convention (C138) has been ratified by 166 countries, while 19 countries have yet to ratify it. Notably, Australia, the United States, Canada, Mexico, India, and Bangladesh, are all member states that have not ratified the Minimum Age Convention (C138).\n\nOperating under the mantra that “decent work is safe work,” the ILO Programme on Safety and Health at Work and the Environment, SafeWork, has the goal of making work safer for all. According to the ILO, someone dies from a work-related accident or disease every 15 seconds. Unsafe labour practices have a long, sordid history. From the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire to the 2013 fertilizer explosion in West, Texas, industrial disasters negatively affect the lives of workers and their dependents with high associated economic costs. Since its creation in 1919, ensuring worker safety has been one of the ILO’s fundamental missions. The ILO has over its history adopted several conventions that have the goal of maximising worker safety and health. Currently, there are three fundamental conventions that are in effect: the Occupation Safety and Health Convention (C155, 1981), the Occupational Health Services Convention (C161, 1985), and the Promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health Convention (C187, 2006). The most recent convention has the stated aim of “promoting a preventative safety and health culture and progressively achieving a safe and healthy working environment.” One challenge that the ILO faces is the low ratification levels of the fundamental health and safety conventions. C155, C161, and C187 have been ratified by 60, 31, and 25 nations respectively. From the perspective of the ILO failing to meet the expectations delineated in the conventions are examples of international labor standards violations.\n\nIn addition to disagreements about the appropriate method of implementation for international labour standards, there are dissenting opinions concerning the validity of their existence at all. The two most common arguments raised against international labour standards are that they undermine international competitiveness and erode domestic policy.\n\nA critique of international labour standards historically raised by right-of-centre economists is that they distort market forces, thus inhibiting employment and income. According to right-wing economists, global free trade allows countries to specialise in those activities in which they have a comparative advantage and to reap mutual gains through exchange. The international competitiveness of countries with large amounts of unskilled labour depends on their ability to provide low-cost workers. Therefore, international standards would undermine any comparative advantage by increasing the cost of labour. According to the conservative argument, international labour standards leave developing nations with a diminished export economy.\n\nSupporters of international labour standards often respond by arguing that this critique only attacks a particular aspect of enforcement rather than the standards themselves. Furthermore, left-of-centre economists suggest that higher labour standards do not necessarily undermine competitiveness. Empirical evidence provided by Berik and Rodgers (2006) suggests that any costs of raising labour standards can easily be offset by incentives encouraging foreign direct investment (FDI) and exports. Following this line of argument, not only do higher labour standards improve social and political stability, thus encouraging more foreign investment, but they also provide valuable investments in human capital that can lead to efficiency gains.\n\nAnother prominent argument against international labour standards is the notion that any attempt to harmonise set benchmarks for acceptable working conditions disregards, to some extent, the current state of an individual country’s unique economic and social climates. It is suggested that rather than adopting an internationally agreed upon group of labour standards, sovereign states are better off leaving labour market regulation to domestic policy. In this way, it is argued, a country can tailor a standard such as a minimum wage to the specific situation in that area of the world rather than trying to implement an ill-fitting uniform wage. In a 1996 study, Drusilla Brown, Alan Deardorff and Robert Stern use a variety of theoretical labour models to test the effectiveness of the harmonisation of international labour standards. The study concludes that in theoretical cases, market failures that allow a breakdown in working environment conditions are most adequately remedied by labour standards. However, market failures are not uniform across countries and so it stands to reason that labour standards should not be constructed in an international way.\n\nAn example of this critique can be seen by looking at the issue of child labour practices. The case against harmonised international labour rights makes the point that the amount of child labour in a country is directly dependent on its level of economic development. Following this line of reasoning, poorer countries have a better chance at abolishing child labour through economic development rather than minimum age requirements. In fact, one study found that children 14 years and younger are not completely withdrawn from the labour force until GDP approaches $5000 per capita. Additionally, it is also argued that international consensuses that disparage child labor practices can actually reduce the likelihood of eradicating child labour altogether by weakening incentives for adult workers to support a ban.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44938429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44938429", "title": "Juarez v. AutoZone Stores, Inc.", "text": "Juarez v. AutoZone Stores, Inc.\n\nJuarez v. AutoZone Stores, Inc., Case No. 08-CV-00417-WVG (S.D. Cal. Nov. 17, 2014), was a court case in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California which is believed to be the largest single-plaintiff employment verdict in United States history at $185,872,719.52. This case is also believed to be the largest punitive damages verdict awarded to a single plaintiff in an employment discrimination lawsuit.\n\nRosario Juarez worked for AutoZone beginning in December 1999 as a cashier. She was promoted to the position of Part Sales Manager in 2001 where she hit a glass ceiling and remained in that position for 3 years.\n\nDuring the five years since she joined AutoZone, Ms. Juarez noticed that male employees were treated more favorably than female employees. In particular, less experienced male employees were promoted to vacant store manager positions and other promotions far more often than women, regardless of experience and knowledge. Although qualified for open store manager positions in her district, Ms. Juarez was frequently passed over for promotion in favor of less experienced and qualified male employees.\n\nThe practice of promoting male employees to better positions faster than female employees permeated AutoZone in the past. Most often women were relegated to service as delivery drivers. When possible, younger attractive women were sought for these positions to encourage predominantly male operated repair shops to place orders. Women at AutoZone have rarely been promoted beyond assistant store manager or part sales manager positions.\n\nUnknown to Plaintiff, AutoZone's California operations were subject to a legal requirement that women were to be provided greater opportunity for employment and advancement. Senior managers were required to keep statistical records concerning the hiring and promotion of women. The requirement resulted from a gender discrimination claim brought against Chief Auto Parts. AutoZone acquired Chief after the legal requirement was imposed and \nwas therefore obligated to comply until it expired sometime in 2004. After the legal requirement expired, a meeting was held to announce that statistics pertaining to women in the workplace no longer needed to be collected. A district manager who was present at the meeting testified about \nhow AutoZone leaders celebrated in reaction to the announcement. According to the witness, who was then an AutoZone District Manager the Vice President of the Western Division said “we can finally start getting rid of these women.” Another corporate leader (who was later placed in charge of Plaintiff in San Diego) remarked that “women weren’t worth sh#t” to AutoZone. The same leader was also credited with telling a district manager that he needed to fire the women in his district stores if he hoped to be promoted to a regional manager himself.\n\nIn 2004, shortly after the end of the legal requirement expired, Plaintiff Ms. Juarez complained to upper management that she had been unfairly passed over for promotion to store manager. Ms. Juarez specifically asked if she would be required to file a lawsuit in order to get promoted. Shortly after complaining, Plaintiff was informed she would be put in a Store Manager Training program for several months. Male employees who worked for AutoZone did not have to go through this training program which was only required for store manager candidates who came from other companies. Plaintiff received no actual training in the program and continued to serve as an assistant manager for other stores in the San Diego Market. Eventually in October 2004, Plaintiff was given her first opportunity to serve as a store manager.\n\nPlaintiff excelled in the Store Manager position and had a positive impact on her store's sales and appearance. At this time, her supervisor was a woman District Manager. After several months, Ms. Juarez was assigned a different district manager, a male, who was demeaning and condescending to Plaintiff and the other women in her store. Male employees in the store would receive pats on the back and jolly greetings, while Plaintiff and her female assistant manager were treated coldly by the district manager with little positive encouragement or interaction. Although Plaintiff's store was steadily improving in response to her efforts, the district manager would continuously comment that she could not handle the job. \nIn August 2005, Ms. Juarez became pregnant. At first she kept her condition secret for fear that the district manager would become more critical and upset. In late October 2005, Plaintiff received a favorable performance evaluation wherein she “met expectations” overall. However, the evaluation included multiple unfair comments. Although she was fearful of the consequences, Ms. Juarez felt that company rules required her to disclose her condition to the district manager. In early November 2005, Ms. Juarez told the district manager she was pregnant. The meeting was witnessed by two assistant managers who testified at trial. Upon hearing the news, the district manager became visibly upset. He sarcastically responded, \"Congratulations...I guess.\" Later the district manager stated, \"I feel sorry for you.\" Immediately after being informed Ms. Juarez was pregnant, the district manager became more aggressive, mean and critical of Ms. Juarez. Suddenly, nothing was being done correctly. Time-consuming work assignments had to be redone, even though no need for a redo existed. Before knowing of the pregnancy the district manager gave the store short “fix-it-lists” of approximately 15 items to be addressed. Afterward, the lists became several pages and sometimes containing as many as 70 nitpicking items. Yelling criticisms and public humiliation followed. The district manager repeatedly remarked in front of workers and customers that he did not believe Plaintiff could perform the work in her “condition” and told her to “step down.” Even though Plaintiff and her managers worked tirelessly, and often off the clock, to address the unwarranted “fix-it-lists,” Ms. Juarez was placed on a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP). At \nall times while on the PIP, Ms. Juarez and her sales team met or beat sales targets set by the company. Nevertheless, the company falsely claimed she failed to improve and meet expectations.\n\nIn February 2006, Ms. Juarez was demoted back to assistant manager and placed in a different store. Ms. Juarez lost her bonuses and overtime pay. She was replaced by a male store manager who was not given “fix-it-lists.” Ms. Juarez worked until she was nine months pregnant and then went out on maternity leave one week before the birth of her second child. While on leave in April 2006, Ms. Juarez filed a charge of gender and pregnancy \ndiscrimination with California Department of Fair Employment and Housing concerning her demotion from store manager. A key document in this case was a letter from AutoZone's legal department, called “AutoZoner Relations” to the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing in response to the discrimination complaint filed by Ms. Juarez. In a July 2006 letter, AutoZoner Relations claimed to have \"thoroughly investigated\" the claims of Ms. Juarez and found no problem. However, at trial evidence clearly demonstrated that AutoZoner Relations never spoke to any of the obvious witnesses to the conduct including Plaintiff and the people who worked with Plaintiff in her store.\n\nFollowing her maternity leave, Ms. Juarez returned to her demoted position in 2007. While employed, Ms. Juarez filed a lawsuit in San Diego state court in January 2008, challenging her demotion as discrimination based on gender and pregnancy. She was deposed by AutoZone in October 2008, as part of her lawsuit. On November 20, 2008, Ms. Juarez was fired by AutoZone because she was allegedly not trustworthy. However, during discovery, AutoZone's person most knowledgeable witnesses indicated that the reasons for Plaintiff's termination were unknown. At trial, the witnesses “remembered” that the termination was probably related to an incident when loss prevention managers investigated a situation where another employee lost $400 cash while Plaintiff was in charge of the store. Alternatively, the company claimed that the termination may have been related to Plaintiff's refusal to fully cooperate in the $400 investigation by loss prevention.\n\nDuring the course of litigation, AutoZone continued the date for trial because the company's loss prevention manager who investigated the missing $400 became pregnant. Months after the continuance, but before this trial, the company fired this loss prevention manager (while she was pregnant) for allegedly falsifying a store audit. The loss prevention manager testified to additional information not provided at the deposition she gave when still employed. According to the witness, the investigation into the missing $400 was requested by high level upper management. The investigation was prioritized over other incidents involving larger amounts of missing cash. She was specifically instructed to target Ms. Juarez rather than the subordinate employee who the loss prevention manager actually suspected to have lost the cash. Contrary to the allegations of the company, the loss prevention manager confirmed that Ms. Juarez acted appropriately during the investigation and answered all questions concerning the incident. The loss prevention manager stated she provided a detailed report to AutoZoner Relations immediately following the investigation which was never produced by the company and was not brought to trial.\n\nWhen Ms. Juarez was suspended for the incident on the day of the investigation, the loss prevent manager suspected retaliation had occurred; unfortunately, she did not say so at her deposition under pressure from AutoZone's lawyers to say only what she knew for absolute certain and for fear of retaliation. Several former AutoZone employees testified about a pervasive fear of retaliation at the company. One of Ms. Juarez's assistant managers testified he was fired a few months after she was demoted in retaliation for supporting Ms. Juarez as a store manager.\n\nDeclarations submitted by the company in support of AutoZone's summary judgment motions indicated that “AutoZoner Relations” had recommended both the demotion and termination of Ms. Juarez. In closing argument, counsel for Ms. Juarez argued that the illegal demotion and termination were orchestrated and/or ratified by the company's legal department. AutoZone did not call a single woman employee to say she was fairly treated by the company.\n\nAutoZone's attorneys strenuously argued that there was no evidence to support Plaintiff's claims. Further, AutoZone claimed that Plaintiff was a manipulative liar who used threats to receive promotions. In closing, AutoZone's lead trial counsel asked the jury to ignore the evidence about their own upper management's statements. Its counsel argued that the company had additional witnesses and documents to support its position, but the company did not want to waste the time presenting the information.\n\nThe verdict in favor of Plaintiff included $393,749.52 in past wages, $228,960 in future wages, and $250,000 for past emotional distress for garden variety emotional harm such as anger, anxiety, emotional distress, worry and the like. Plaintiff testified to the shame and embarrassment she felt after her demotion. At the time of her termination, she was a single mother caring for her two young children. During a lengthy period of unemployment, she and her children would make burritos and sell them just to make money to survive. Although Ms. Juarez eventually found new employment with a different auto parts company, the difference between the earnings and benefits resulted in significant financial losses. The ability to earn bonuses and overtime pay as a store manager at AutoZone as compared to jobs without such benefits supported future wage loss, even though gainfully employed at the time of trial. The jury deliberated for a day and a half before finding for Plaintiff on all claims asserted.\n\nFollowing the liability phase, Plaintiff presented the testimony of an economist to assess the company's ability to pay punitive damages. Using AutoZone's public financial disclosures, it was established that the cash flow of the company, after all operational expenses, is $20,798,192 a week. Although on paper the company had a negative net worth of $1 billion, Plaintiff's economist explained the company's net worth is not a reliable indicator of the company's ability to pay because the excess cash was used to repurchase its stock, which had the effect of making outstanding shares more valuable. Plaintiff's economist further testified that AutoZone had the ability to pay a $100,000,000 punitive damage award after only four weeks of operations. Defendant's economist, who was unaware of the company's cash flow, testified about the company's negative net worth but offered no comment regarding what amount of punitive damages the company could pay.\n\nIn opposition to any award of punitive damages, the company offered the testimony of attorney Allison Smith, the director AutoZoner Relations from its headquarters in Memphis, TN. Ms. Smith testified that she had come from Memphis to tell the jury that the company had heard their verdict and would be examining its “processes.” Ms. Smith told the jury that she wanted to speak with the jury to hear why they had found liability. On cross-examination, Ms. Smith acknowledged that this case was not the first time a California jury had sent the company a message about “retaliation.” She acknowledged a prior 2010 verdict in Sacramento, where AutoZone fired a district manager for “falsifying an audit” after he reported that a human resources manager used the “N” word in reference to customers and employees of AutoZone. Ms. Smith was asked what AutoZone had done as a result of the 2010 jury finding and she responded that AutoZone had paid the judgment.\n\nAs to financial condition, Ms. Smith confirmed that the company's current public filing with the SEC reported that all pending litigation against the company “individually or in the aggregate” was “not material to the company’s financial condition.” This became a stipulated fact during the punitive damages phase of trial.\n\nIn the closing argument for punitive damages, Plaintiff's counsel argued that the reprehensibility of the conduct was extremely high because the unlawful acts were committed by the legal department which was responsible for guiding operations around the world. Counsel suggested that more than a hundred million dollars would be required to ensure that the Board of Directors took a hard look at their legal department and \"clean house.\" Specifically, counsel suggested that the award should equate to one week of the company's extra cash for each year of injustice suffered by Plaintiff. Counsel expressed a hope that the verdict would come to be known as the “Juarez Award” which would stand for the proposition that women are an equal part of the workplace, that they have a right to work pregnant, and that retaliation will not be tolerated. In opposition, AutoZone argued that it had heard the message and no further punitive damages were required. The jury deliberated one day before reaching its punitive damage verdict.\n\nCounsel for plaintiff:\n\nCounsel for defense:\n\n"}
{"id": "11277669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11277669", "title": "Judicial review in English law", "text": "Judicial review in English law\n\nJudicial review in English law enables people to challenge the exercise of power, often by a public body. A person who feels that an exercise of power is unlawful may apply to the Administrative Court (a division of the High Court) for a court to decide whether a decision followed the law. If the court finds the decision unlawful it may have it set aside (quashed) and possibly award damages. A court may impose an injunction upon the public body.\n\nWhen creating a public body, legislation will often define duties, limits of power, and prescribe the reasoning a body must use to make decisions. These provisions provide a means for a decision to be found unlawful. In addition, the Human Rights Act 1998 provides that law must be interpreted and public bodies must act in a manner compliant with the European Convention on Human Rights. There are also common law constraints on the decision-making process of a body. Unlike the United States and some other jurisdictions, English law does not permit judicial review of primary legislation (laws passed by Parliament), except in a few cases where primary legislation is contrary to EU law or the European Convention on Human Rights. A person wronged by an Act of Parliament therefore cannot apply for judicial review unless this is the case, but may still argue that a body did not follow the Act.\n\nThe English constitutional theory, as expounded by A. V. Dicey, does not recognise a separate system of administrative courts that would review the decisions of public bodies (as in France, Germany and many other European countries). Instead, it is considered that the government should be subject to the jurisdiction of ordinary Common Law courts.\n\nAt the same time, the doctrine of Parliamentary sovereignty does not allow for the judicial review of primary legislation (primarily Acts of Parliament). This limits judicial review in English law to the decisions of officials and public bodies, and secondary (delegated) legislation, against which ordinary common law remedies, and special \"prerogative orders\", are available in certain circumstances.\n\nThe constitutional theory of judicial review has long been dominated by the doctrine of \"ultra vires\", under which a decision of a public authority can only be set aside if it exceeds the powers granted to it by Parliament. The role of the courts was seen as enforcing the \"will of Parliament\" in accordance with the doctrine of Parliamentary sovereignty. However, the doctrine has been widely interpreted to include errors of law and of fact and the courts have also declared the decisions taken under the Royal Prerogative to be amenable to judicial review. Therefore, it seems that today the constitutional position of judicial review is dictated by the need to prevent the abuse of power by the executive as well as to protect individual rights.\n\nUnder the Civil Procedure Rules a claim (application) for judicial review will only be admissible if permission (leave) for judicial review is obtained from the High Court, which has supervisory jurisdiction over public authorities and tribunals. Permission may be refused if one of the following conditions is not satisfied:\n\n\nHowever, the Court will not necessarily refuse permission if one of the above conditions is in doubt. It may, in its discretion, examine all the circumstances of the case and see if the substantive grounds for judicial review are serious enough. Delay or lack of sufficient interest can also lead to the court refusing to grant a remedy after it had considered the case on the merits.\n\nThe pre-action protocol states that it is usual for the Claimant to write a letter before claim to the proposed Defendant. The purpose of the letter is to identify the issues in dispute and to avoid litigation where possible. The protocol specifies a template for the letter. It is usual to allow 14 days for a response.\n\nUnlike other civil proceedings in English courts, in judicial review court papers the claimant is styled as \"The Queen (on the application of Claimant X)\" (or \"King\" when reigning). For example, \"The Queen (on the application of Claimant X) v Defendant Y\" or more succinctly \"R (on the application of Claimant X) v Defendant Y\" or \"R (Claimant Y) v Defendant Y\". This is a purely cosmetic formality that arises from a historical procedure where Her Majesty's Judiciary acted on her behalf in a supervisory capacity. Technically a judicial review is brought by the Crown, on the application of the claimant, to ensure that powers are being properly exercised.\n\nThe decision complained of must have been taken by a public body, i.e. a body established by statute or otherwise exercising a public function. In \"R v Panel for Takeovers and Mergers Ex p Datafin\" [1987] 1 QB 815, the Court of Appeal held that a privately established panel was amenable to judicial review because it in fact operated as an integral part of a governmental framework for regulating Mergers and Takeover, while those affected had no choice but to submit to its jurisdiction.\n\nSometimes the legislator may want to exclude the powers of the court to review administrative decision, making them final, binding and not appealable (\"R (Cowl) v Plymouth City Council\"). However, the courts have consistently held that none but the clearest words can exclude judicial review. When the Government wanted to introduce a new Asylum and Immigration Act containing such clear words, members of the judiciary protested to the extent of saying that they will not accept even such an exclusion. The Government withdrew the proposal.\n\nThe courts however do uphold time limits on applications for judicial review.\n\nThe House of Lords held in \"O'Reilly v Mackman\" that where public law rights were at stake, the claimants could only proceed by way of judicial review. They could not originate their action under the general civil law procedure, because that would be avoiding the procedural safeguards afforded to public authorities by the judicial review procedure, such as the requirement of sufficient interest, timely submission and permission for judicial review. However, a defendant may still raise public law issues as a defence in civil proceedings. So for example, a tenant of the public authority could allege illegality of its decision to raise the rents when the authority sued him for failing to pay under the tenancy contracts. He was not required to commence a separate judicial review process (\"Wandsworth London Borough Council v Winder\" (1985)). If an issue is a mix of private law rights, such as the right to get paid under a contract, and public law issues of the competence of the public authority to take the impugned decision, the courts are also inclined to allow the claimant to proceed using ordinary civil procedure, at least where it can be demonstrated that the public interest of protecting authorities against frivolous or late claims has not been breached (\"Roy v Kensington and Chelsea and Westminster Family Practitioner Committee\" (1992), \"Trustees of the Dennis Rye Pension Fund v Sheffield City Council\" (1997)).\n\nIn \"Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service\" [1985] AC 374, Lord Diplock summarised the grounds for reversing an administrative decision by way of judicial review as follows:\n\n\nThe first two grounds are known as substantive grounds of judicial review because they relate to the substance of the disputed decision. Procedural impropriety is a procedural ground because it is aimed at the decision-making procedure rather than the content of the decision itself. Those grounds are mere indications: the same set of facts may give rise to more than one ground for judicial review.\n\nIn Lord Diplock's words, this ground means that the decision maker \"must understand correctly the law that regulates his decision-making power and must give effect to it\".\n\nA decision may be illegal for many different reasons. There are no hard and fast rules for their classification, but the most common examples of cases where the courts hold administrative decisions to be unlawful are the following:\n\nIf the law empowers a particular authority, e.g. a minister, to make certain decisions, the Minister cannot subdelegate this power to another authority, e.g. an executive officer or a committee. This differs from a routine job not involving much discretion being done by civil servants in the Minister's name, which is not considered delegation.\n\nAn example of when this happened was in \"Allingham v Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries\" where a notice preventing farmers from growing sugar beet was unlawful because the power to put up the sign was delegated by the original committee. Where a decision is made by a properly empowered department within a local council, s.101 of the Local Government Act 2003 allows for delegation.\n\nThe court will quash a decision where the authority has misunderstood a legal term or incorrectly evaluated a fact that is essential for deciding whether or not it has certain powers. So, in \"R v Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex parte Khawaja\" [1984] AC 74, the House of Lords held that the question whether the applicants were \"illegal immigrants\" was a question of fact that had to be positively proved by the Home Secretary before he could use the power to expel them. The power depended on them being \"illegal immigrants\" and any error in relation to that fact took the Home Secretary outside his jurisdiction to expel them. However, where a term to be evaluated by the authority so broad and vague that reasonable people may reasonably disagree about its meaning, it is generally for the authority to evaluate its meaning. For example, in \"R v Hillingdon Borough Council ex Parte Pulhofer\" [1986] AC 484, the local authority had to provide homeless persons with accommodation. The applicants were a married couple, who lived with their two children in one room and applied to the local authority for aid. The local authority refused aid because it considered that the Pulhofers were not homeless and the House of Lords upheld this decision because whether the applicants had accommodation was a question of fact for the authority to determine.\n\nThe classic example of this is \"Attorney General v Fulham Corporation\" (1921) where Fulham council had the power to set up wash-houses for those without the facilities. They decided to charge people to use it. The court held they went beyond their power by trying to benefit commercially from something that was supposed to be for everyone.\n\nAnother example of this is the case of \"R v Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Ex p The World Development Movement\". Section 1 of the Overseas Development and Co-operation Act 1980 empowered the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to assign funds for development aid of economically sound projects. The Secretary assigned the funds for a project to construct a power station on the Pergau River in Malaysia (see Pergau Dam) which was considered as uneconomic and not sound. The House of Lords held that this was not the purpose envisaged by the enabling statute and the Minister therefore exceeded his powers. A similar principle exists in many continental legal systems and is known by the French name of \"détournement de pouvoir\".\n\nThis ground is closely connected to illegality as a result of powers being used for the wrong purpose. For example, \"Wheeler v Leicester City Council\", where the City Council banned a rugby club from using its ground because three of the club's members intended to go on a tour in South Africa at the time of apartheid. In \"R v Somerset County Council Ex parte Fewings\" the local authority decided to ban stag hunting on the grounds of it being immoral. In \"Padfield v Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food\", the Minister refused to mount an inquiry into a certain matter because he was afraid of bad publicity. In \"R v Inner London Education Authority, ex parte Westminster City Council\", the London Education Authority used its powers to inform the public for the purpose of convincing the public of its political point of view. In all these cases, the authorities have based their decisions on considerations, which were not relevant to their decision making power and have acted unreasonably (this may also be qualified as having used their powers for an improper purpose).\n\nNote that the improper purpose or the irrelevant consideration must be such as to materially influence the decision. Where the improper purpose is not of such material influence, the authority may be held to be acting within its lawful discretion. Hence in \"R v Broadcasting Complaints Commission, ex parte Owen\" [1985] QB 1153, the Broadcasting authority refused to consider a complaint that a political party has been given too little broadcasting time mainly for good reasons, but also with some irrelevant considerations, which however were not of material influence on the decision.\n\nAn authority will be acting unreasonably where it refuses to hear applications or makes certain decisions without taking individual circumstances into account by reference to a certain policy. When an authority is given discretion, it cannot bind itself as to the way in which this discretion will be exercised either by internal policies or obligations to others. Even though an authority may establish internal guidelines, it should be prepared to make exceptions on the basis of every individual case.\n\nUnder Lord Diplock's classification, a decision is irrational if it is \"so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question could have arrived at it.\" This standard is also known as Wednesbury unreasonableness, after the decision in \"Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd v Wednesbury Corporation\", where it was first imposed.\n\nUnlike illegality and procedural impropriety, the courts under this head look at the merits of the decision, rather than at the procedure by which it was arrived at or the legal basis on which it was founded. The question to ask is whether the decision \"makes sense\". In many circumstances listed under \"illegality\", the decision may also be considered irrational.\n\nProportionality is a requirement that a decision is proportionate to the aim that it seeks to achieve. E.g. an order to forbid a protest march on the grounds of public safety should not be made if there is an alternative way of protecting public safety, e.g. by assigning an alternative route for the march. Proportionality exists as a ground for setting aside administrative decisions in most continental legal systems and is recognised in England in cases where issues of EU law and human rights are involved. However, it is not as yet a separate ground of judicial review, although Lord Diplock has alluded to the possibility of it being recognised as such in the future. At present, lack of proportionality may be used as an argument for a decision being irrational.\n\nA decision suffers from procedural impropriety if in the process of its making the procedures prescribed by statute have not been followed or if the \"rules of natural justice\" have not been adhered to.\n\nAn Act of Parliament may subject the making of a certain decision to a procedure, such as the holding of a public hearing or inquiry, or a consultation with an external adviser. Some decisions may be subject to approval by a higher body. Courts distinguish between \"mandatory\" requirements and \"directory\" requirements. A breach of mandatory procedural requirements will lead to a decision being set aside for procedural impropriety.\n\nThe rules of natural justice require that the decision maker approaches the decision making process with \"fairness\". What is fair in relation to a particular case may differ. As pointed out by Lord Bridge in \"Lloyd v McMahon\" [1987] AC 625, \"the rules of natural justice are not engraved on tablets of stone\". Below are some examples of what the rules of natural justice require:\n\nThe first basic rule of natural justice is that nobody may be a judge in his own case. Any person that makes a judicial decision - and this includes e.g. a decision of a public authority on a request for a licence - must not have any personal interest in the outcome of the decision. If such interest is present, the decision maker must be disqualified even if no actual bias can be shown, i.e. it is not demonstrated that the interest has influenced the decision. The test as to whether the decision should be set aside is whether there is a \"real possibility [of bias]\", as established in \"Gough v Chief Constable of the Derbyshire Constabulary\" [2001], which dropped the 'fair minded observer' part of the test.\n\nWhether or not a person was given a fair hearing of his case will depend on the circumstances and the type of the decision to be made. The minimum requirement is that the person gets the chance to present his case. If the applicant has certain legitimate expectations, for example to have his licence renewed, the rules of natural justice may also require that they are given an oral hearing and that their request may not be rejected without giving reasons. \n\nThis was the principle in the case of \"Ridge v Baldwin\" [1964] AC 40.\n\nUnlike many other legal systems, English administrative law does not recognise a general duty to give reasons for a decision of a public authority. A duty to give reasons may be imposed by statute. Where it is not, common law may imply such a duty and the courts do so particularly with regard to judicial and quasi-judicial decisions.\n\nA legitimate expectation will arise when a person (or a group or class of persons) has been led by a policy, promise or representation of a public body to understand that, for example, certain steps will be followed in reaching a decision.\nConsiderations of legitimate expectations:\n\n\nThe above principle has been recognized in the case of R v Liverpool Corporation, ex parte Liverpool Taxi Fleet Operators (1972).\n\nThe court may uphold not only a legitimate expectation that a certain procedure would be followed by a public body (\"procedural\" expectations), but also an expectation of some substantive benefit. In a leading case on the latter point, Ms Coughlan, having been badly injured in a car accident, was promised a \"home for life\" by the health authority when she was transferred from the hospital to a care home. When the authority tried to evict her later, the court held the authority to their promise, since to frustrate Ms Coughlan's legitimate expectation would be unfair in the circumstances.\n\nIt has been suggested that proportionality (which is now expressly cited as a doctrine of review only in human rights cases and cases with an EU dimension) should become a separate general head of review.\n\nThere is some authority for the proposition that the courts employ a normative legal concept of \"moral desert\". Dr Kennefick of Queen's College, Oxford has posited that the essential question that the courts ask themselves is this: \"did they deserve it?\" When both parties deserve it, the secondary inquiry is \"who deserved it more?\" On the unlikely occurrence of equal moral desert existing between two parties, the courts should, Kennefick argues, be able to give both parties a remedy.\n\nThe following remedies are available in proceedings for judicial review:\n\nIn any case more than one remedy can be applied for; however, the granting of all remedies is entirely at the court’s discretion.\n\nA quashing order nullifies a decision which has been made by a public body. The effect is to make the decision completely invalid. Such an order is usually made where an authority has acted outside the scope of its powers (\"ultra vires\"). The most common order made in successful judicial review proceedings is a quashing order. If the court makes a quashing order it can send the case back to the original decision maker directing it to remake the decision in light of the court’s findings. Very rarely, if there is no purpose in sending the case back, it may take the decision itself.\n\nA prohibiting order is similar to a quashing order in that it prevents a tribunal or authority from acting beyond the scope of its powers. The key difference is that a prohibiting order acts prospectively by telling an authority not to do something in contemplation. Examples of where prohibiting orders may be appropriate include stopping the implementation of a decision in breach of natural justice, or to prevent a local authority licensing indecent films, or to prevent the deportation of someone whose immigration status has been wrongly decided.\n\nA mandatory order compels public authorities to fulfill their duties. Whereas quashing and prohibition orders deal with wrongful acts, a mandatory order addresses wrongful failure to act. A mandatory order is similar to a mandatory injunction (below) as they are orders from the court requiring an act to be performed. Failure to comply is punishable as a contempt of court. Examples of where a mandatory order might be appropriate include: compelling an authority to assess a disabled person’s needs, to approve building plans, or to improve conditions of imprisonment. A mandatory order may be made in conjunction with a quashing order, for example, where a local authority’s decision is quashed because the decision was made outside its powers, the court may simultaneously order the local authority to remake the decision within the scope of its powers.\n\nA declaration is a judgment by the Administrative Court which clarifies the respective rights and obligations of the parties to the proceedings, without actually making any order. Unlike the remedies of quashing, prohibiting and mandatory order the court is not telling the parties to do\nanything in a declaratory judgment. For example, if the court declared that a proposed rule by a local authority was unlawful, a declaration would resolve the legal position of the parties in the proceedings. Subsequently, if the authority were to proceed ignoring the declaration, the applicant who obtained the declaration would not have to comply with the unlawful rule and the quashing, prohibiting and mandatory orders would be available.\n\nAn injunction is an order made by the court to stop a public body from acting in an unlawful way. Less commonly, an injunction can be mandatory, that is, it compels a public body to do something. Where there is an imminent risk of damage or loss, and other remedies would not be sufficient, the court may grant an interim injunction to protect the position of the parties before going to a full hearing. If an interim injunction is granted pending final hearing, it is possible that the side which benefits from the injunction will be asked to give an undertaking that if the other side is successful at the final hearing, the party which had the benefit of the interim protection can compensate the other party for its losses. This does not happen where the claimant is legally aided.\n\nDamages are available as a remedy in judicial review in limited circumstances. Compensation is not available merely because a public authority has acted unlawfully. For damages to be available there must be either:\n\nThe discretionary nature of the remedies outlined above means that even if a court finds a public body has acted wrongly, it does not have to grant any remedy. Examples of where discretion will be exercised against an applicant may include where the applicant’s own conduct has been unmeritorious or unreasonable, for example where the applicant has unreasonably delayed in applying for judicial review, where the applicant has not acted in good faith, where a remedy would impede an authority's ability to deliver fair administration, or where the judge considers that an alternative remedy could have been pursued.\n\n"}
{"id": "54003788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54003788", "title": "List of law schools in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "List of law schools in the Republic of Ireland\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Ireland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53017604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53017604", "title": "List of lawsuits involving Donald Trump", "text": "List of lawsuits involving Donald Trump\n\nThe following is a list of notable lawsuits involving United States President Donald Trump. The list excludes cases naming the president as a matter of course, including \"habeas corpus\" requests. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6691155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6691155", "title": "Lloyd–La Follette Act", "text": "Lloyd–La Follette Act\n\nThe Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912 began the process of protecting civil servants in the United States from unwarranted or abusive removal by codifying \"just cause\" standards previously embodied in presidential orders. It defines \"just causes\" as those that would promote the \"efficiency of the service.\" August 24, 1912, § 6, , \n\nThe Act further states that \"the right of employees... to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to a committee or Member thereof, may not be interfered with or denied.\" \n\nUnder the leadership of Republican Senator Robert M. La Follette, Sr., the United States Congress enacted the Act with the intention of conferring job protection rights on federal employees which they had not previously had. Prior to the enactment of this language, there was no such statutory inhibition on the authority of the government to discharge a federal employee, and an employee could be discharged with or without cause for conduct which was not protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe act was passed after the Theodore Roosevelt (in 1902) and Taft (in 1909) administrations prohibited federal employees from communicating with Congress without authorization from their superiors. This language was later placed in the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and codified in . The purpose of this Act was to allow Congress to obtain uncensored, essential information from federal employees. Congress intended to allow the federal workers direct access to Congress in order to register complaints about conduct by their supervisors and to report corruption or incompetence.\n\nIn \"Arnett v. Kennedy\", 416 U.S. 134 (1974), the United States Supreme Court addressed questions about the Act. It held that the Act's standard of employment protection, which describes as explicitly as is feasible in view of the wide variety of factual situations where employees' statements might justify dismissal for \"cause\" the conduct that is ground for removal, is not impermissibly vague or overbroad in regulating federal employees' speech.\n\nOne of the primary purposes of the Act was to protect those who criticize of superiors from official retribution. Senator La Follette gave the following example of an abuse sought to be cured by the bill\n\nThe cause for [the employee's] dismissal was that he gave publicity to the insanitary conditions existing in some part of the post-office building in Chicago where the clerks were required to perform their services... [H]e furnished some facts to the press of Chicago, and the publication was made of the conditions. They were simply horrible... The public health officers of Chicago, as soon as their attention was called to the conditions, condemned the situation as they found it; and yet this young man, one of the brightest fellows I have met, was removed from the service because, he had given publicity to these outrageous conditions. (1912).\n\nThe Act was thus the first federal law enacted specifically to protect whistleblowers.\n\nThe history and scope of the Act was further described by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Bush v. Lucas\", 462 U.S. 367, 103 S.Ct. 2404 (1983).\n\nCongressional attention to the problem of motivated removals was again prompted by the issuance of Executive Orders by Presidents Roosevelt and Taft that forbade federal employees to communicate directly with Congress without the permission of their supervisors... These \"gag orders,\" enforced by dismissal, were cited by several legislators as the reason for enacting the Lloyd–La Follette Act in 1912, , § 6.FN20 That statute... explicitly guaranteed that the right of civil servants \"to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to any committee or member thereof, shall not be denied or interfered with.\" FN22 As the House Report explained, this legislation was intended \"to protect employees against oppression and in the right of free speech and the right to consult their representatives.\" FN23 In enacting the Lloyd–La Follette Act, Congress weighed the competing policy considerations and concluded that efficient management of government operations did not preclude the extension of free speech rights to government employees.FN24\n\nFootnote 20. See 48 Cong.Rec. 4513 (1912) (remarks of Rep. Gregg) (\"[I]t is for the purpose of wiping out the existence of this despicable 'gag rule' that this provision is inserted. The rule is unjust, unfair, and against the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, which provides for the right of appeal and the right of free speech to all its citizens.\") A number of the bill's proponents asserted that the gag rule violated the First Amendment rights of civil servants. See, e.g., id., at 4653 (remarks of Rep. Calder) (1912); id., at 4738 (remarks of Rep. Blackmon); id., at 5201 (remarks of Rep. Prouty); id., at 5223 (remarks of Rep. O'Shaunessy); id., at 5634 (remarks of Rep. Lloyd); id., at 5637-5638 (remarks of Rep. Wilson); id., at 10671 (remarks of Sen. Ashurst); id., at 10673 (remarks of Sen. Reed); id., at 10793 (remarks of Sen. Smith); id., at 10799 (remarks of Sen. La Follette).\n\nIn 1997, the Justice Department argued that Congress does not have a constitutional right to obtain information from civil servants through unauthorized disclosures. Based on its analysis of disclosure laws and its stance on separation of powers, Justice argued that Congress cannot vest \"in executive branch employees a right to provide classified information to members of Congress without official authorization.\"\n\nIn 1997, Congress adopted an anti-gag rule. The government-wide prohibition on the use of appropriated funds to pay the salary of any federal official who prohibits or prevents or threatens to prohibit or prevent a federal employee from contacting Congress first appeared in the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 1998, , , (1997). In 1997, the Senate passed a prohibition that applied only to the Postal Service, while the House of Representatives passed a governmentwide prohibition. The conference report adopted the House version, and a government-wide prohibition has been included in every Treasury-Postal appropriations act since fiscal year 1998.\n\nThis provision has its antecedents in several older pieces of legislation, including the Treasury Department Appropriation Act of 1972, the Lloyd–La Follette Act of 1912, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.\n\nIn 2006, Rep. John Conyers included the Lloyd–La Follette Act in a list of 26 laws that he contends President George W. Bush violated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2818214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2818214", "title": "Mining sett", "text": "Mining sett\n\nMining setts were a legal arrangement used historically in the counties of Devon and Cornwall in South West England to manage the exploitation of land for the extraction of tin. The term was also used on the Isle of Man.\n\nThey were a form of licence by the holder of a set of tin bounds (or bounder) to allow a miner or group of miners (known as adventurers) to work the ground within the bounds for tin. Setts were usually granted subject to conditions, such as the requirement to actually work the ground and were also often limited to a specified depth of ground.\n\nIn return for the grant of a sett, the adventurers were required to pay a portion of the tin extracted to the bounders. This portion was known as farm tin. Its payment was in addition to the requirement to pay toll tin to the freeholder of the land and tin coinage duty on the refined tin before it could legally be sold.\n\nDartmoor tin-mining\n"}
{"id": "37249254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37249254", "title": "NABERS", "text": "NABERS\n\nNABERS, the National Australian Built Environment Rating System, is an initiative by the government of Australia to measure and compare the environmental performance of Australian buildings and tenancies. There are NABERS rating tools for commercial office buildings to measure greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, water efficiency, waste efficiency and indoor environment quality. There are also energy/greenhouse and water rating tools for hotels, shopping centres and data centres.\n\nA key feature of the initiative is the use of independent 'Accredited Assessors' to conduct ratings. Assessors are required to attend training, pass an exam and complete two supervised assessments before they receive full accreditation. While there are no formal pre-requisites to attend the training, most Assessors have experience in the building services, property or energy management industries. Building owners and tenants can use the online 'self-assessment' tool, however they cannot promote these results. Only ratings that have been certified by the NABERS National Administrator can be promoted using the NABERS trademark.\n\nThe vision statement of NABERS is 'To support a more sustainable built environment through a relevant, reliable and practical measure of building performance'.\n\nThe NABERS tools attempt to provide an accurate measurement of how efficiently building owners and tenants are providing their services \"without penalising them for factors that are beyond their control\". \n\nFor example if the primary service that an office building owner provides is safe, lit and comfortable office space the NABERS Energy for offices tool would consider how much space is being used, how much energy is being used to supply services to the space, and then statistically adjusts for factors like the climate - which will influence how much energy is used for heating and cooling.\n\nTo obtain a NABERS Energy for offices rating, consumption data for the building (such as electricity and gas bills) is collected by Accredited Assessors along with data about a number of other aspects of the building such as its size, hours of occupation, climate location and density of occupation. Data requirements are set out in a document called 'The NABERS Energy and Water for Offices Rules for Collecting and Using Data v.3.0'. This data is then input into the NABERS rating calculator which statistically adjusts for these factors so that the building can have its consumption fairly benchmarked against its peers. The result of this calculation is a star rating on a six star scale, where zero is very poor performance and six is market leading.\n\nThe procedure for an office water rating is similar to conducting an office energy rating. The main differences are that it is water rather than energy bills that are used, and some data such as the hours of operation are not required. Unlike office energy ratings, which can either be for the base building, tenancies or whole building, office water ratings are only available for whole buildings.\n\nLike NABERS for offices, NABERS Energy for data centres has three distinct rating types to reflect the different interests and responsibilities from data centres owners, operators and tenants - Infrastructure (co-location owner), Whole Facility (data centre owner) and IT Equipment (data centre tenant) ratings. The tool is designed to rate the majority of data centres in Australia, provide a direct comparison with other rateable data centres, and allow an individual data centre to measure and compare performance over time.\n\nThe NABERS Data Centre IT Equipment Rating is designed for organisations that control and manage their own IT equipment (servers, storage and networking devices). The IT Equipment rating measures feastures that are closely related to the primary functions of a data centre (processing, storage and networking) and that all data centres provide, regardless of how they provide them. NABERS uses two IT equipment metrics:\nThe NABERS performance benchmark model predicts the industry median greenhouse gas emissions for a given amount of data centre processing and storage capacity. This means that if a data centre consumes more energy than the benchmark model predicts, the site is less energy efficient than the industry median (set at 3 stars), while if it consumes less energy it is more efficient than the median. \nTo obtain a NABERS Energy for data centres IT Equipment rating, energy consumption data for the IT equipment over a 28- to 40-day period is collected by Accredited Assessors along with data about the total unformatted storage capacity and total processing capacity as above.\n\nThe Infrastructure Rating measures the energy efficiency in delivering support services to the IT equipment, using the widely accepted industry Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) ratio that is converted into kilogram of emissions with some modification for climate and shared cooling services. To obtain an infrastructure rating, 12 months of energy consumption data for IT equipment and infrastructure services is collected by Accredited Assessors along with the climate location of the data centre.\n\nThe Whole Facility rating measures the energy efficiency of the whole data centre by assessing the processing and storage capacity and the industry median energy efficiency for infrastructure services compared with the overall energy consumption of the data centre. It is a combination of both the IT Equipment and Infrastructure rating benchmarks To obtain a NABERS Energy for data centres Whole Facility rating, 12 months of energy consumption data for the data centre is collected by Accredited Assessors along with the processing and storage capacity and climate location of the data centre.\n\nThere are a number of building environmental certification systems across the world, such as LEED, Green Star, BRE Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) and Display Energy Certificates (DECs). The key features of NABERS as a system are that it is based on performance rather than design, assessments are carried out by third party 'Accredited Assessors', it is based on third party verifiable data (such as utility bills), ratings undergo government quality assurance checks and it distinguishes between the environmental impact of a building's shared services and its tenancies. While other rating systems across the world share some of these features, none share all of them.\n\nNABERS Energy for offices is considered by many to have been successful, as over 82% of the Australian national office market has now been rated with either a base building or whole building rating. Factors behind the success of the tool are largely attributed to its ability to differentiate between the base building and tenants energy end uses and strong government support. Far fewer tenancy energy ratings have been conducted however and there has also been far less uptake of the other tools.\n\nWhile NABERS Energy is a voluntary rating scheme for buildings, its success has been at least partly driven by its extensive use in energy initiatives by government and industry throughout Australia. Some programs include:\n\n\n\n\nAustralian government legislation that requires owners of office buildings to disclose the energy efficiency of the building to prospect tenants or buyers. Known operationally as the Commercial Building Disclosure (CBD) program, a certified NABERS Energy rating is the main energy efficiency indicator required of building owners.\n"}
{"id": "784514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=784514", "title": "National Library of Scotland", "text": "National Library of Scotland\n\nThe National Library of Scotland (, ) is the legal deposit library of Scotland and is one of the country's National Collections. Its main public building is in Edinburgh city centre on George IV Bridge, between the Old Town and the university quarter. There is also a more modern building (1980s) in a residential area on the south side of the town centre, on Causewayside. This was built to accommodate some of the specialist collections, such as maps and science collections, and to provide extra large-scale storage. In 2016 a new public centre opened at Glasgow's Kelvin Hall providing access to the Library's digital and moving image collections.\n\nThe National Library of Scotland holds 7 million books, 14 million printed items and over 2 million maps. The collection includes copies of the Gutenberg Bible, the letter which Charles Darwin submitted with the manuscript of \"Origin of Species\", the First Folio of Shakespeare and numerous journals and other publications. It has the largest collection of Scottish Gaelic material of any library.\n\nOriginally, Scotland's national deposit library was the Advocates Library belonging to the Faculty of Advocates. It was opened in 1689 and gained national library status in the 1710 Copyright Act, giving it the legal right to a copy of every book published in Great Britain. In the following centuries, the library added books and manuscripts to the collections by purchase as well as legal deposit, creating a privately funded national library in all but name.\n\nBy the 1920s, the upkeep of such a major collection was too much for a private body, and, with an endowment of £100,000 provided by Alexander Grant, managing director of McVitie & Price, the Library's contents were presented to the nation. The National Library of Scotland was formally constituted by Act of Parliament in 1925.\n\nThe Nation recognised Grant with a baronetcy, and he was created Sir Alexander Grant of Forres in June 1924. In 1928 he donated a further £100,000 – making his combined donations the equivalent of around £6 million today – for a new library building to be constructed on George IV Bridge, replacing the Victorian-period Sheriff Court, which institution moved to the Royal Mile. Government funding was secured which matched Sir Alexander's donation. Work on the new building was started in 1938, interrupted by the Second World War, and completed in 1956. The architect was Reginald Fairlie; the architectural sculptor was Hew Lorimer. The coat of arms above the entrance was sculpted by Scott Sutherland and the roundels above the muses on the front facade by Elizabeth Dempster.\n\nBy the 1970s, room for the ever-expanding collections was running out, and other premises were needed. The Causewayside Building opened in the south-side of Edinburgh in two phases, in 1989 and in 1995, at a total cost of almost £50 million, providing much-needed additional working space and storage facilities.\n\nSince 1999, the Library has been funded by the Scottish Parliament. It remains one of only six legal deposit libraries in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and is governed by a board of trustees.\n\nThe Library also holds many ancient family manuscripts including those of the Clan Sinclair, which date back as far as 1488.\n\nOn 26 February 2009, areas of the building were flooded after a water main burst on the 12th floor. Firefighters were called and the leaking water was stopped within ten minutes. A number of items were lightly damaged.\n\nThe last letter written by Mary Queen of Scots made a rare public appearance to mark the opening of a new Library visitor centre in September 2009.\n\nThe Library joined the project in 2010 in a bid to reduce their carbon footprint. One year later they announced that they had reduced their carbon emissions according to 10:10's criteria by 18%.\n\nOn 16 May 2012 the National Library of Scotland Act 2012 was passed by the Scottish Parliament, and received Royal Assent in 21 June 2012. \n\nIn April 2013 the Library advertised for a Wikipedian in residence, becoming the first institution in the Scotland to create such a post. In 2016, the Library recruited a Gaelic Wikipedian in residence.\n\nIn September 2016 the Library opened a new centre at the refurbished Kelvin Hall, Glasgow, in partnership with Glasgow Life and the University of Glasgow. The centre provides access to the Library's digital and moving image collections. \n\n, the Library holds:\n\n"}
{"id": "18609488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18609488", "title": "Nations in Scottish universities", "text": "Nations in Scottish universities\n\nNations are student divisions at some of the ancient universities of Scotland.\n\nNations were a characteristic of some of the ancient universities and have gradually decreased in significance in recent times. As the newest of the ancient universities, nations never existed at the University of Edinburgh, and were abolished at St Andrews following discussions at the Royal Commission on the Universities of Scotland, which later led to the Universities (Scotland) Acts.\n\nStudent nations continued into modern times at the University of Aberdeen and the University of Glasgow for the specific purpose of electing a Rector of the university.\n\nThe University of St Andrews, in common with continental universities at the time of its founding, was divided into nations each presided over by a Procurator. The four nations were originally Albany, Angus, Lothian and Britain covering approximately North West, North East, South East and South West Scotland. Later, the original Albany was renamed Fife, while Britain became Albany and included the Western Isles and all places outside Scotland.\n\nThe four nations each chose an “intrant”, who in turn chose the Lord Rector. At that time the duties of Rector were similar to those of the Principal of the university today. In case of a tie, the decision was left to the outgoing Lord Rector.\n\nThe use of the nations system for rectorial elections was discontinued after the national establishment of elected Rectors under the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858.\n\nAt the University of Glasgow the use of nations continued until 1977 for the election of the university's Lord Rector. The University has four nations, originally called Clydesdale, Teviotdale, Albany and Rothesay, and later as Clydesdale (\"Glottiana\"), Lothian, \"Transforthana\" (land over the Forth, essentially Albany) and Rothesay. Respectively, their heraldic symbols are: a two headed bird over crossed tools, an anchor over crossed tools, a horn over crossed tools and a sailing ship over crossed tools.\n\nThree of the 'nations' consisted of defined areas in Scotland, with Loudoniana consisting of students from all other places. The heraldic symbols of the nations can be seen in the stonework of a number of university buildings, including the Glasgow University Union and the chapel, under the Latin title of the university.\n\nThe University of Aberdeen also had a system of nations. Following the Universities (Scotland) Act 1858, the use of nations to elect the Lord Rector continued via the election of Procurators, similar to the system used at the University of Glasgow, with the Chancellor having deciding vote in case of a tie. The four nations of the University were Angus, Mar (\"Marriensis\"), Buchan (\"Buchanensis\") and Moray (\"Moraviensis\").\n\nPrior to the 1858 Act, Glasgow and Marischal College, one of Aberdeen's predecessor universities, were alone in making provision via the nations for election of a Rector.\n"}
{"id": "19046018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19046018", "title": "Obrad Stanojević", "text": "Obrad Stanojević\n\nProfessor Obrad Stanojević (; March 28, 1934 – November 23, 2011) was a Emeritus professor and former dean of the University of Belgrade's Law School, Serbia. He was a renowned expert in Roman law, comparative law, civil law and international law, and has written extensively in these fields. Stanojević was a member of the International Advisory Board of the Loyola University New Orleans College of Law and has been associated with this law school since 1990 when he visited it as a Fulbright Scholar. He has also taught at the Loyola College of Law as a visiting professor from 1994 to 1996, and he has taught in Loyola’s summer programs in Hungary, Mexico, and Russia. He has lectured widely at leading European universities. Together with Professor Sima Avramović, he was the organizer of the prestigious Belgrade Competition in Oratory. Additionally, Stanojević was the only representative from Eastern Europe of the international review \"Revue Internationale des Droits de l’Antiquite\" – Brussels.\n\nProfessor Obrad Stanojević was born on March 28, 1934. in Mustapić, Serbia to father Rev. Slobodan Stanojević (b. July 22, 1910. - d. July 19, 1942.) and mother Nadežda (Nada) Stanojević (née Marković, b. Sep. 30, 1910 - d. October 30, 2007.). At the time Rev. Slobodan Stanojević was temporarily stationed in Mustapić to perform his first service as a priest of Serbian Orthodox Church. Both parents are by origin from the city of Prokuplje, Serbia where they later continued to live. Obrad attended elementary school in Prokuplje, where he stayed during German occupation in World War II. Upon arrival of German army, Rev. Slobodan Stanojević became one of the local leaders (Vojvoda) of the Serbian Loyalist movement - Četniks, which successfully organized armed resistance against German troops during occupation. Rev. Slobodan Stanojevic was betrayed by his neighbour, and was assassinated in his home by communist militia on the night of July 19, 1942. Nada and Obrad Stanojević remained in Prokuplje until summer of 1947, when they moved to Belgrade. In Belgrade they lived in Dorćol district in Cara Urosa 31 street, where Obrad attended the First Gymnasium middle school (Prva Muška Gimnazija).\n\nFollowing his interest in sciences and social studies Obrad enrolled University of Belgrade School of Law in 1953, where he obtained LL.B. degree in 1957. After graduation Obrad became a postgraduate student at the Department of Classical Philology (Greek and Latin) of Belgrade University. He also spent several years studying abroad at Institut Universitaire des Etudes Europeennes (Turin, Italy 1960/61) and Institute of Comparative Law, New York University (1964/65). Obrad obtained his Ph.D. degree in 1964 with the thesis: “Loan and interest, Historical and Comparative Study”. By this time he became fluent in several foreign languages: English, French, Italian, Russian (in all those languages he delivered lectures), with passive knowledge of Latin, Spanish and German.\n\nObrad devoted most of his career teaching Roman Law and History of Law at Belgrade University School of Law where he was appointed first Associate Professor of Law and later Full Professor. He also served as Associate Dean (1980–82) and Dean (1991–92). During his professional career Obrad became one of the world’s leading scholars in Roman Law and lectured extensively around the globe. He also authored numerous scholarly articles and books that were translated in several languages. He retired from teaching at Belgrade University Law School in 1998, but remained active in the “Forum Romanum” Club, as a chief organizer of the annual student contest in rhetorics. Obrad also continued extensive teaching activities as a guest lecturer at other universities in the region and around the world.\n\nAssistant Professor of Law<br>\nAssociate Professor of Law<br>\nFull Professor of Law<br>\nAssociate Dean (1980–82) and Dean (1991-1993) of the University of Belgrade Law School<br>\nPresident of the Department for Legal History at the Law School of Belgrade (for more than ten years)<br>\nFounder and President of the Club “Forum Romanum” of the Law School<br>\nPresident and member of the National Council for Higher Education<br>\nPresident of the society Dante Alligheiri (International association for the promotion of Italian language and culture)<br>\nVice-president of the Societa dei amici dell’Universita per stranieri di Perugia.\n\n- At the University of Belgrade Law School: Roman Law, Rhetoric, Major Legal Systems; <br>\n- University of Kragujevac Law School, Serbia History of Political and Legal Institutions<br>\n- Loyola University Law School, New Orleans, USA:, Roman Law, Comparative Law, Western Legal Traditions, Property, Family Law and Public International Law. <br>\n- At the Center for European studies (together with the University of Nancy, France): History of Europe and European Idea<br>\n- at the Summer programs of Loyola: Comparative Law, International Law and Russia<br>\n- Summer program of the Law School of Tulane (New Orleans) Countries in transition – example of Yugoslavia.<br>\n-Lecturer at the University of London (1985), Edinburgh (1985), Milan (1986), Pisa (1986, 1996), Brussels (1989), Moscow (1989). <br>\n-Visiting professor (Fulbright program) at Loyola University, School of Law in New Orleans (1990); Professor at Loyola by contract from 1993 to 1995; Associate director (on two occasions) and professor at the Summer School of Loyola in Mexico (1992, 1995, 1998, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009); Professor at Loyola summer programs in Moscow and Budapest (1993, 1994, 1996, 2001); Lecturer at the Summer School of Tulane Law School in Greece (1999), at the joint summer program of Loyola (New Orleans) and Touro (New York) from 2000 to 2004; Distinguished Visiting Professor by Loyola University School of Law (March - April 2001).\n\n- “Premio Internazionale Vincenzo Arangio-Ruiz” (Naples, 1968) for the book “Loan and Interest (Historical and Comparative Study”);<br>\n- Award “The Book of the Year in Legal Literature”, Belgrade, 1986 for the textbook “Roman law”;<br>\n- The same award for the book “Ars Rhetorica” for year 2002; <br>\n- Member of Accademia Costantiniana (Perugia, Italy);<br>\n- At the first voting of Student Radio Index, “Choosing the most popular professor of Belgrade University” in 1986 won the first place.<br>\n- The series “Academia in vivo” (transmitting lectures from Belgrade University on TV has started with Obrad’s lecture “Law and Civilization of Ancient Egypt”.\n\n1. Loan and interest, Historical and Comparative Study, Belgrade, 1966, 325 pages.<br>\n2. Gaius noster – contribution to the History of Roman Jurisprudence, Belgrade, 1976, 188 p.<br>\n3. Latin for Law Students, Belgrade, 1982, 238 p. (several editions).<br>\n4. Institutes of Gaius, Latin text, translation and comment, Belgrade, 1982, 330 p. Second edition 2009.<br>\n5. Roman Law (textbook), Belgrade, 1986 (and twenty five consecutive editions) 460 p.<br>\n6. Basic Principles of Common Law, Belgrade, 44 p.<br>\n7. Gaius noster – plaidoyer pour Gaius, Amsterdam, 1989, 184 p. (in French)<br> \n8. History of Political and Legal Institutions (part I: Near East and Greece), Belgrade, 1988, 120 p.<br>\n9. One Hundred and Fifty Years of Law School (1841-1991), Editor-in-chief and author of the first chapter (Licej u Kragujevcu), Beograd, 1991, p. 1 - 28<br>\n10. O. Stanojevic & Sima Avramovic, Basic Principles of Rhetoric, Belgrade, 1993, 182 p.<br>\n11. Obrad Stanojevic & Sima Avramovic, Ars Rhetorica – Manual of Rhetoric, Belgrade, 2002, 550 pages (second ed. 2003).<br>\n12. History of European Civilization and European Idea (lecture notes), Belgrade, 1996, 142 p.<br>\n13. Eastern European Countries in Transition, example of Yugoslavia (lecture notes), 2001. 231 p.<br>\n14. International Law and Russia (lecture notes) 2003, 327 p.<br>\n15. Obrad Stanojevic & Jelena Danilovic Tekstovi iz Rimskog prava (praktikum za vezbe) several editions, 275 p.<br>\n16. Western Legal Tradition, Lecture material for the Summer School of Loyola University in Mexico, Cuernavaca\n\n1. Enciclopedia dei popoli d’Europa, Firenze, 1969 (contributions dealing with Yugoslav cultural, political and legal history)<br>\n2. Encyclopedia of Private Law, Belgrade, 1981<br>\n3. One of seven main redactors of Serbian Encyclopedia by Serbian Academy of Sciences and Matica Srpska (covering: political sciences, law, sociology, economy, trade and commerce – in preparation). Now one of 31 redactors covering Law and Political sciences.\n\n1. O nekim problemima ugovora o zajmu u na_em gradjanskom pravu, Arhiv za pravne i dru_tvene nauka, 1964, str. 205 – 215.<br>\n2. ________ ______ _____ ______ ________, _____ _______ _________ _ ________,<br>\n3. O nastanku zajma i kamata, Zbornik posve_en Albertu Vajsu, 1966, str. 103-110.<br>\n4. Quis erat Gaius ? Anali Pravnog fakulteta u Beogradu, 1970, br. 1, str. 82 - 93<br>\n5. Quelques observations sur le pret dans les droits primitifs, Studi Volterra, Naples 1970 <br>\n6. Arbeiten an die Kodifizierung des Burgerliches Rechts in Jugoslawiens, Ost-Europa Recht, 1970 <br>\n7. Zajam u Skici za zakonik o obligacijama prof. Mihaila Konstantinovica, 1972, br. 1-3, str. 509 - 525<br>\n8. Rimsko i anglosaksonsko shvatanje svojine, Anali Pravnog fakulteta, 1972, br. 5 - 6, str. 843 – 857<br>\n9. “Gaius noster ‘ o imenu pisca najstarijeg udzbenika prava, Anali Pravnog fakulteta, 1973, br- 6, str. 59-66<br>\n10. _ _______ ____ Rerum cottidianarum sive aurerum libri VII, _____ _______ _________, 1983, __.1-4, p. 639-652 <br> \n11. Da Spartaco ad Augusto, Atti dell’Academia Costantiniana, Perugia, 1986, p. 364-371<br>\n12. Gaius et les Romanistes, Studi Guarino, 1987 p.<br>\n13. La protezioni dei poveri: influsso del cristianesimo o politica antifeodale? Atti dell’Accademia romanistica Costantiniana, VII, 1989, p. 495-500.<br>\n14. Laesio enormis e colonato tardo-romano, Atti dell’Accademia Romanistica Costantiniana, VIII, 1990, p. 217 –226<br>\n15. _________ _______ – __________ ___________ __________ _________, ______ ______, 1990, __. 3. ___. 529-533.<br> \n16. Roman Law and Common Law – a different Point of View, Loyola Law Review, 1990, br. 2, p. 269 - 274.<br>\n17. Gaius and Pomponius – Notes on David Pugsley, Revue Intern. Des Droits de l’Antiquite, p. 333-356<br>\nand some 30 other articles.\n\n- Congress Le Droit Pharaonque, Bruxelles, 1982<br>\n- Da Roma a terza Roma, Rome, 1986, Moscow, 1996 and Novi Sad, 2003;<br>\n- More than ten congresses of the Societe International de l’Histoire des Droits de l’Antiquite (Trieste, Bruxelle (twice)s, Amsterdam (twice), Perpignan, Padova, New Orleans, Madrid, Exceter, Namur, Kavala - Greece). On most of those with a communication. At last six, president of the session. At the last one on which participated in Exeter, the president of the Séance de cloture. This Societe is publishing the famous review Revue Internationale des Droits de l’Antiquite on which Obrad was the member of the Comite scientifique (the only one from Central and Eastern Europe) <br>\n- In three occasions, twice with a communication at the sessions of the Accademia Costantiniana di Perugia.\n\n-Director of the Center for Publication of the Law School<br>\n-One of the three editors of the book edition ‘’Nomos’’ (Nolit)<br>\n-Member of the editorial board for the edition Prominent Law Scholars in Yugoslavia (Sluzbeni list)\n\n-University Reform as Aporia, (Gledišta)<br>\n-Law Studies in USA, (Anali Pravnog fakulteta)\n\nPresident of the Court of Chamber of Commerce (Sud Časti) of Belgrade (1978-1980)\n\n- As the Dean of Law School introduced a contest for students in rhetoric in 1993. Since that year it has become a tradition of the Law School, except in the period of political oppression 1998-2000. He also recommended to other Law Schools in the region to organize the same kind of student competition (which most of them accepted).<br>\n- During his deanship the course of Rhetoric was added to the curriculum of the Law School.<br>\n- Three times the judge in the Moot Court competitions at Loyola of New Orleans.<br>\n- Twice the judge in the Philip Jessup competition (Tulane Law School, 1995, Loyola 2003).<br>\n- Director of the Center for Rhetoric (Institutio Oratoria) at the Law School of Belgrade University, which is organizing competition in Rhetoric each year (the most important such event in Serbia).\n\n-Member of the Conseil Scientifique of the Revue Internationale des Droits de l’Antiquite, Brussels- RIDA <br>\n-Referee for scholarships offered by NYU (New York) for some time, now for Summer Programs of Aegean Institute (Rhode) and Tulane Law School (New Orleans) held on the Island of Rhode (Rhodos) and Spetses (Greece).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31254262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31254262", "title": "Participism", "text": "Participism\n\nParticipism is a libertarian socialist political philosophy consisting of two independently created economic and political systems: participatory economics or \"parecon\" and participatory politics or \"parpolity\". Participism is intended as an alternative to both capitalism and centrally-planned state socialism. Participism has significantly informed the International Organization for a Participatory Society.\nAdvocates of participism envision remaking all of human society from the bottom up according to principles of direct participatory democracy and replacing economic and social competition with cooperation. Supporters of what is termed a \"participatory society\" support the eventual dissolution of the centralized state, markets, and money (in its current form) placing it in the tradition of anti-authoritarian libertarian socialism. To elucidate their vision for a new society, advocates of participism categorize their aspirations into what they term a \"liberating theory\".\n\nLiberating theory is a holistic framework for understanding society that looks at the whole of society and the interrelations among different parts of people's social lives. Participism groups human society into four primary \"spheres\", all of which are set within an international and ecological context, and each of which has a set of defining functions:\n\n\nWithin each sphere there are two components. The first component is the \"Human Centre\", the collection of people living within a society. Each person has needs, desires, personalities, characteristics, skills, capacities, and consciousness. The second component is the \"Institutional Boundary\", all of society’s social institutions that come together to form interconnected roles, relationships, and commonly held expectations and patterns of behaviour, that produce and reproduce societal outcomes. These institutions come together to help shape who people are as individuals.\n\n\"Parpolity\" is the political system first proposed by Stephen R. Shalom, professor of political science at William Paterson University in New Jersey. Shalom has stated that Parpolity is meant as a long range vision of where social justice should reach its apex within the field of politics and should complement the level of participation in the economy with an equal degree of participation in policy and administrative matters.\n\nThe values on which parpolity is based are:\n\nThe goal, according to Shalom, is to create a political system that will allow people to participate, as much as possible in a direct and face to face manner. The proposed decision-making principle is that every person should have say in a decision proportionate to the degree to which she or he is affected by that decision.\n\nThe vision is critical of aspects of modern representative democracies arguing that the level of political control by the people isn't sufficient. To address this problem parpolity suggests a system of Nested Councils, which would include every adult member of a given society.\n\nIn a country or society run according to participism, there would be local councils of voting citizens consisting of 25-50 members. These local councils would be able to pass any law that affected only the local council. No higher council would be able to override the decisions of a lower council, only a council court would be able to challenge a local law on human rights grounds. The councils would be based on consensus, though majority votes are allowed when issues cannot be agreed upon.\n\nEach local council would send a delegate to a higher level council, until that council fills with 25-50 members. These second level councils would pass laws on matters that effect the 625 to 2500 citizens that it represents. A delegate to a higher level council is bound to communicate the views of her or his sending council, but is not bound to vote as the sending council might wish. Otherwise, Shalom points out that there is no point in having nested councils, and everyone might as well vote on everything. A delegate is recallable at any time by her or his sending council. Rotation of delegates would be mandatory, and delegates would be required to return to their sending councils frequently.\n\nThe second level council sends a delegate to a third level council, the third level councils send delegates to a fourth level and so on until all citizens are represented. Five levels with 50 people on every council would represent 312,500,000 voters (around the population of the United States). However, the actual number of people represented would be even higher, given that young children would not be voting. Thus, with a further sixth level nested council, the entire human population could be represented. This would not however be equatable to a global world state, but rather would involve the dissolution of all existing nation-states and their replacement with a worldwide confederal \"coordinating body\" made of delegates immediately recallable by the nested council below them.\n\nLower level councils have the opportunity to hold referendums at any time to challenge the decisions of a higher level council. This would theoretically be an easy procedure, as when a threshold of lower level councils call for a referendum, one would then be held. Shalom points out that sending every issue to lower level councils is a waste of time, as it is equivalent to referendum democracy.\n\nThere would be staff employed to help manage council affairs. Their duties would perhaps include minute taking and researching issues for the council. These council staff would work in a balanced job complex defined by a participatory economy.\n\n\"Parecon (participatory economics)\" is an economic system proposed primarily by activist and political theorist Michael Albert and radical economist Robin Hahnel. It uses participatory decision making as an economic mechanism to guide the production, consumption and allocation of resources in a given society. It is described as \"an anarchistic economic vision\", and a form of socialism, the means of production are owned in common. The theory is proposed as an alternative to both contemporary capitalist market economies and centrally planned socialism. It distinguishes between two parts of the working class. The 'coordinator class' that does the conceptual, creative and managerial work and the rest of the class doing rote work. This situation is deemed 'coordinatorism', which the theory claims it to be a major flaw with Marxism.\n\nThe underlying values that parecon seeks to implement are equity, solidarity, diversity, workers' self-management and efficiency. (Efficiency here means accomplishing goals without wasting valued assets.) It proposes to attain these ends mainly through the following principles and institutions:\n\nIn place of money parecon would have a form of currency in which personal vouchers or \"credits\" would be awarded for work done to purchase goods and services. Unlike money, credits would disappear upon purchase, and would be non-transferable between individuals, making bribery and monetary theft impossible. Also, the only items or services with a price attached would most likely be those considered wants or non-essentials and anything deemed a need would be completely free of charge (e.g.: health care, public transportation).\n\nAlbert and Hahnel have stressed that parecon is only meant to address an alternative \"economic\" theory and must be accompanied by equally important alternative visions in the fields of politics, culture and kinship. The authors have also discussed elements of social anarchism in the field of politics, polyculturalism in the field of culture, and feminism in the field of family/kinship and gender relations as being possible foundations for future alternative visions in these other spheres of society. Since the publication of Albert's book \"Parecon\", other thinkers have come forward and incorporated these concepts which have rounded participism into a more fully formed political and social ideology.\n\n\"See also Nurture kinship and Free love\"\n\nOutside of both political and economic relations there still exists the sphere of human kinship. Participism sees this as a vital component in a liberated society and applies feminist principles to this aspect of human relations. Feminist kinship relations are seen to seek to free people from oppressive definitions that have been socially imposed and to abolish all sexual divisions of labour and sexist and heterosexist demarcation of individuals according to gender and sexuality.\n\nParticipism holds that a participatory society must be respectful on an individual’s nature, inclinations, and choices and all people must be provided with the means to pursue the lives they want regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, or age. Feminist kinship relations are dependent on the liberation of women, LGBTQ persons, youth, the elderly, and intersex (hermaphroditic and pseudohermaphroditic) individuals.\n\nTo extend liberation into daily home life, a participatory society aims to provide the means for traditional couples, single parents, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender, and intersex parents, communal parenting, polygamy (especially polyandry), polyamorous and multiple parenting arrangements to develop and flourish. It is believed that within the home and the community, the task of raising children must be elevated in status. Highly personalised interaction between children and adults should be encouraged, and responsibilities for these interactions must be distributed equitably throughout society without segregating tasks by gender. A participatory society would provide parents with access to high quality day-care, flexible work hours, and parental leave options allowing them to play a more active role in the lives of their children.\n\nThe liberation of women and society from patriarchal and heteronormative oppression, according to participism, requires total reproductive freedom. Society must provide all members with the right to family planning, without shame or guilt for performing or soliciting an abortion or for engaging in alternative sexual behavior and without fear of sterilization or economic deprivation; the right to have or not to have children and to terminate undesired pregnancies through unhindered access to birth control and unregulated abortion, respectively; and the right to comprehensive sexual education and healthcare that provide every citizen with information and resources to live a healthy and fulfilling sex life.\n\nIn such sex-positive participatory societies the full exploration of human sexuality, with the possible exception of child sexuality, would be accepted and embraced as normative. Participism encourages the exercise of and experimentation of different forms of sexuality by consenting partners.\n\nHuman society is held to have long and brutal history of conquest, colonisation, genocide, and slavery which cannot be transcended easily. To begin the step-by-step process of building a new historical legacy and set of behavioural expectations between communities, a participatory society would construct intercommunalist institutions to provide communities with the means to assure the preservation of their diverse cultural traditions and to allow for their continual development. With polycultural intercommunalism, all material and psychological privileges that are currently granted to a section of the population at the expense of the dignity and standards of living for oppressed communities, as well as the division of communities into subservient positions according to culture, ethnicity, nationality, and religion, will be dissolved.\nThe multiplicity of cultural communities and the historical contributions of different communities would be respected, valued, and preserved by guaranteeing each sufficient material and communicative means to reproduce, self-define, develop their own cultural traditions, and represent their culture to all other communities. Through construction of intercommunalist relations and institutions that guarantee each community the means necessary to carry on and develop their traditions, a pariticipatory society assists eliminating negative inter-community relations and encourages positive interaction between communities that can enhance the internal characteristics of each.\nIn a participatory society, individuals would be free to choose the cultural communities they prefer and members of every community would have the right of dissent and to leave. Intervention would not be permitted except to preserve this right for all. Those outside a community would also be free to criticize cultural practices that they believe violate acceptable social norms, but the majority would not have the power to impose its will on a vulnerable minority.\n\nCertain anarchists of the libcom community (an internet community of libertarian communists) have criticized the parpolity aspect of participism for deciding beforehand the scale and scope of the councils whilst only practice, they argue, can accurately indicate the size and scale of anarchist confederations and other organizational platforms, especially since each region is unique with unique residents and unique solutions and unique wants. Anarchists argue that such blueprints containing detailed information are either dangerous or pointless. Furthermore, some anarchists have criticized the potential use of referendums to challenge decisions taken by higher councils as this implies both a top-down structure and an absence of vis-à-vis democracy as they argue that referendums are not participatory.\n\nThey have also criticized the enforcement of laws passed by councils rather than the use of supposed voluntary custom or customary law which develops through mutual recognition rather than being enforced by an external authority, as they argue the laws passed by such councils would need to be.\n\nThe criticism of socialism could be applied to participism as well, as advocates of capitalism object to the absence of a market and private property in a hypothetical participatory society. However, in a debate with David Horowitz, Michael Albert argued that those criticisms could not apply to parecon, as it was especially designed to take them into account. New specific criticisms should then be formulated. For instance, in an answer to the comments of David Kotz and John O'Neill about one of their articles on the subject, Albert and Hahnel assert that they designed parecon understanding \"that knowledge is distributed unequally throughout society\", hypothetically answering to the famous criticisms of Friedrich Von Hayek on the possibility of planning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477981", "title": "Password cracking", "text": "Password cracking\n\nIn cryptanalysis and computer security, password cracking is the process of recovering passwords from data that have been stored in or transmitted by a computer system. A common approach (brute-force attack) is to try guesses repeatedly for the password and check them against an available cryptographic hash of the password.\n\nThe purpose of password cracking might be to help a user recover a forgotten password (installing an entirely new password is less of a security risk, but it involves System Administration privileges), to gain unauthorized access to a system, or as a preventive measure by system administrators to check for easily crackable passwords. On a file-by-file basis, password cracking is utilized to gain access to digital evidence for which a judge has allowed access but the particular file's access is restricted.\n\nThe time to crack a password is related to bit strength (\"see\" password strength), which is a measure of the password's entropy, and the details of how the password is stored. Most methods of password cracking require the computer to produce many candidate passwords, each of which is checked. One example is brute-force cracking, in which a computer tries \"every\" possible key or password until it succeeds. More common methods of password cracking, such as dictionary attacks, pattern checking, word list substitution, etc. attempt to reduce the number of trials required and will usually be attempted before brute force. Higher password bit strength exponentially increases the number of candidate passwords that must be checked, on average, to recover the password and reduces the likelihood that the password will be found in any cracking dictionary.\n\nThe ability to crack passwords using computer programs is also a function of the number of possible passwords per second which can be checked. If a hash of the target password is available to the attacker, this number can be in the billions or trillions per second, since an \"offline attack\" is possible. If not, the rate depends on whether the authentication software limits how often a password can be tried, either by time delays, CAPTCHAs, or forced lockouts after some number of failed attempts. Another situation where quick guessing is possible is when the password is used to form a cryptographic key. In such cases, an attacker can quickly check to see if a guessed password successfully decodes encrypted data.\n\nFor some kinds of password hash, ordinary desktop computers can test over a hundred million passwords per second using password cracking tools running on a general purpose CPU and billions of passwords per second using GPU-based password cracking tools (See: John the Ripper benchmarks). The rate of password guessing depends heavily on the cryptographic function used by the system to generate password hashes. A suitable password hashing function, such as bcrypt, is many orders of magnitude better than a naive function like simple MD5 or SHA. A user-selected eight-character password with numbers, mixed case, and symbols, with commonly selected passwords and other dictionary matches filtered out, reaches an estimated 30-bit strength, according to NIST. 2 is only one billion permutations and would be cracked in seconds if the hashing function is naive. When ordinary desktop computers are combined in a cracking effort, as can be done with botnets, the capabilities of password cracking are considerably extended. In 2002, distributed.net successfully found a 64-bit RC5 key in four years, in an effort which included over 300,000 different computers at various times, and which generated an average of over 12 billion keys per second. \n\nGraphics processors can speed up password cracking by a factor of 50 to 100 over general purpose computers. As of 2011, available commercial products claim the ability to test up to 2,800,000,000 passwords a second on a standard desktop computer using a high-end graphics processor. Such a device can crack a 10 letter single-case password in one day. The work can be distributed over many computers for an additional speedup proportional to the number of available computers with comparable GPUs.\n\nDespite their capabilities, desktop CPUs are slower at cracking passwords than purpose-built password breaking machines. In 1998, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) built a dedicated password cracker using ASICs, as opposed to general purpose CPUs. Their machine, Deep Crack, broke a DES 56-bit key in 56 hours, testing over 90 billion keys per second. In 2010, the Georgia Tech Research Institute developed a method of using GPGPU to crack passwords, coming up with a minimum secure password length of 12 characters.\n\nPasswords that are difficult to remember will reduce the security of a system because (a) users might need to write down or electronically store the password using an insecure method, (b) users will need frequent password resets and (c) users are more likely to re-use the same password. Similarly, the more stringent requirements for password strength, e.g. \"have a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters and digits\" or \"change it monthly\", the greater the degree to which users will subvert the system.\n\nIn \"The Memorability and Security of Passwords\", Jeff Yan et al. examines the effect of advice given to users about a good choice of password. They found that passwords based on thinking of a phrase and taking the first letter of each word are just as memorable as naively selected passwords, and just as hard to crack as randomly generated passwords. Combining two unrelated words is another good method. Having a personally designed \"algorithm\" for generating obscure passwords is another good method.\n\nHowever, asking users to remember a password consisting of a \"mix of uppercase and lowercase characters\" is similar to asking them to remember a sequence of bits: hard to remember, and only a little bit harder to crack (e.g. only 128 times harder to crack for 7-letter passwords, less if the user simply capitalizes one of the letters). Asking users to use \"both letters and digits\" will often lead to easy-to-guess substitutions such as 'E' → '3' and 'I' → '1', substitutions which are well known to attackers. Similarly typing the password one keyboard row higher is a common trick known to attackers.\n\nResearch detailed in an April 2015 paper by several professors at Carnegie Mellon University shows that people's choices of password structure often follow several known patterns. As a result, passwords may be much more easily cracked than their mathematical probabilities would otherwise indicate. Passwords containing one digit, for example, disproportionately include it at the end of the password.\n\nOn July 16, 1998, CERT reported an incident where an attacker had found 186,126 encrypted passwords. By the time they were discovered, they had already cracked 47,642 passwords.\n\nIn December 2009, a major password breach of the Rockyou.com website occurred that led to the release of 32 million passwords. The attacker then leaked the full list of the 32 million passwords (with no other identifiable information) to the internet. Passwords were stored in cleartext in the database and were extracted through a SQL Injection vulnerability. The Imperva Application Defense Center (ADC) did an analysis on the strength of the passwords.\n\nIn June 2011, NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) experienced a security breach that led to the public release of first and last names, usernames, and passwords for more than 11,000 registered users of their e-bookshop. The data were leaked as part of Operation AntiSec, a movement that includes Anonymous, LulzSec, as well as other hacking groups and individuals.\n\nOn July 11, 2011, Booz Allen Hamilton, a large American Consulting firm that does a substantial amount of work for the Pentagon, had their servers hacked by Anonymous and leaked the same day. \"The leak, dubbed 'Military Meltdown Monday,' includes 90,000 logins of military personnel—including personnel from USCENTCOM, SOCOM, the Marine Corps, various Air Force facilities, Homeland Security, State Department staff, and what looks like private sector contractors.\" These leaked passwords wound up being hashed with unsalted SHA-1, and were later analyzed by the ADC team at Imperva, revealing that even some military personnel used passwords as weak as \"1234\".\n\nOn July 18, 2011, Microsoft Hotmail banned the password: \"123456\".\n\nIn July 2015, a group calling itself \"The Impact Team\" stole the user data of Ashley Madison. Many passwords were hashed using both the relatively strong bcrypt algorithm and the weaker MD5 hash. Attacking the latter algorithm allowed some 11 million plaintext passwords to be recovered.\n\nThe best method of preventing a password from being cracked is to ensure that attackers cannot get access even to the hashed password. For example, on the Unix operating system, hashed passwords were originally stored in a publicly accessible file /etc/passwd. On modern Unix (and similar) systems, on the other hand, they are stored in the shadow password file /etc/shadow, which is accessible only to programs running with enhanced privileges (i.e., \"system\" privileges). This makes it harder for a malicious user to obtain the hashed passwords in the first instance, however many collections of password hashes have been stolen despite such protection. Another strong approach is to combine a site-specific secret key with the password hash, which prevents plaintext password recovery even if the hashed values are purloined. A third approach is to use key derivation functions that reduce the rate at which passwords can be guessed.\nUnfortunately, many common Network Protocols transmit passwords in cleartext or use weak challenge/response schemes.\n\nModern Unix Systems have replaced traditional DES-based password hashing function crypt() with stronger methods such as bcrypt and scrypt. Other systems have also begun to adopt these methods. For instance, the Cisco IOS originally used a reversible Vigenère cipher to encrypt passwords, but now uses md5-crypt with a 24-bit salt when the \"enable secret\" command is used. These newer methods use large salt values which prevent attackers from efficiently mounting offline attacks against multiple user accounts simultaneously. The algorithms are also much slower to execute which drastically increases the time required to mount a successful offline attack.\n\nMany hashes used for storing passwords, such as MD5 and the SHA family, are designed for fast computation and efficient implementation in hardware. As a result, they are ineffective in preventing password cracking, especially with methods like rainbow tables. Using key stretching Algorithms, such as PBKDF2, to form password hashes can significantly reduce the rate at which passwords can be tested.\n\nSolutions like a security token give a formal proof answer by constantly shifting password. Those solutions abruptly reduce the timeframe for brute forcing (attacker needs to break and use the password within a single shift) and they reduce the value of the stolen passwords because of its short time validity.\n\nIn 2013 a long-term Password Hashing Competition was announced to choose a new, standard algorithm for password hashing.\n\nThere are many password cracking software tools, but the most popular are Aircrack, Cain and Abel, John the Ripper, Hashcat, Hydra, DaveGrohl and ElcomSoft. Many litigation support software packages also include password cracking functionality. Most of these packages employ a mixture of cracking strategies, algorithm with brute force and dictionary attacks proving to be the most productive.\nThe increased availability of computing power and beginner friendly automated password cracking software for a number of protection schemes has allowed the activity to be taken up by script kiddies.\n\n"}
{"id": "40799990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799990", "title": "Pillay v Nagan", "text": "Pillay v Nagan\n\nIn Pillay v Nagan, an important case in the South African law of succession, Nagan forged his mother’s will and subsequently told people that he had done so. His siblings then approached the court to declare Nagan unworthy of inheriting. The court held that Nagan’s fraudulent act was sufficient to declare him unworthy of inheriting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307968", "title": "Proffer", "text": "Proffer\n\nA proffer is an offer made prior to any formal negotiations.\n\nIn a trial, to proffer (sometimes profer) is to offer evidence in support of an argument, or elements of an affirmative defense or offense. A party with the burden of proof must proffer sufficient evidence to carry that burden. For example, in support of a particular argument, a party may proffer documentary evidence or witnesses.\n\nWhere a party is denied the right to introduce evidence because that evidence would be inflammatory, hearsay, or would lack sufficient authentication, that party must make a proffer of what the evidence would have shown in order to preserve the issue for appeal.\n\nAs in business, a proffer can be a sign of \"good faith\" a first offer or proposal, to show a willingness to \"barter\".\n\n\nThe word proffer is derived from Anglo-French \"por-\", forth, and offrir, to offer.\n\n"}
{"id": "58240863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58240863", "title": "Refinitiv", "text": "Refinitiv\n\nRefinitiv – formerly the Financial and Risk business of Thomson Reuters – is a global provider of financial markets data and infrastructure. The new company is jointly owned by Blackstone Group LP who have a 55% stake in the business and Thomson Reuters who now own 45% The company has an annual turnover of $6bn with more than 40,000 client companies in 190 countries.\n\nThomson Reuters Corp sold a 55-percent majority stake in its Financial & Risk (F&R) unit to private equity firm Blackstone Group LP on October 1, 2018, in a deal which valued the total F&R business at about $20 billion. This business was formed into Refinitiv.\n\nUnder the deal, Thomson Reuters transferred its complete Financial and Risk product portfolio to Refinitiv, with the exception of Regulatory Intelligence, Risk Compliance Learning and Data Privacy Advisory Services. \n\nRefinitiv's FinTech data, analytics, trading, and risk assessment tools include FXall, Eikon Messenger, Auto Audit and the Elektron Data Platform creating 32,000 risk intelligence records every month from internal and third-party sources. Another, the World-Check Risk Intelligence database, compiles information from international financial watch lists, government records, and media searches to tackle Money Laundering.\n\nAlthough Thomson Reuters is now a minority shareholder in Refinitiv, it still supplies Reuters news and content to the company's 400,000 plus customers in more than 40,000 businesses around the world, supported by a network of at least 13,000 registered developers.\n\nRefinitiv's Developer Portal includes data feeds, SDKs and APIs, documentation, sample code, learning materials and community Q & A forums. These run alongside \"developer days\" in regional centres on topics including machine learning, cloud services and legislation such as GDPR.\n"}
{"id": "31875268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31875268", "title": "Sicilian Parliament", "text": "Sicilian Parliament\n\nThe Sicilian Parliament was the legislature of the Kingdom of Sicily.\n\nThe Sicilian Parliament is arguably considered one of the oldest parliaments in the world and the first legislature in the modern sense. \nIn 1097 came the first conference in Mazara del Vallo convened by Roger I the Great Count of a parliament initially travelling. The Sicilian Parliament was made up of three branches: from feudalism, from the Ecclesiastical and from the State Property. The feudal branch was formed by nobles representatives of counties and baronies, the ecclesiastical branch was formed by archbishops, bishops, abbots and archimandrites, while the state-owned branch was formed by representatives of 42 autonomous towns in Sicily. The first Norman parliament was not a deliberative, and had only an advisory function and confirmation of the sovereign, especially in taxation, economics and wars. Members were chosen from the more powerful nobles.\n\nSince 1130 meetings are held in the Palazzo dei Normanni, in Palermo. First radical change came with Frederick II of Swabia, which allowed the access part to civil society.\nAfter a period in the background during the reign of Anjou, the Parliament became the central focus of the organization of the Sicilian Vespers. On 3 April 1282, during the uprising, the red and yellow flag with the center triscele was adopted by Parliament: today is the flag of Sicily. With the Vespers and the subsequent settlement of Frederick III of Aragon in 1297, the Assembly strengthened its central role. This was the time that the permanent establishment of the Parliament was in the Castello Ursino, in Catania, at the \"Sala dei Parlamenti\" (Parliaments Hall). At this time consisted primarily of landowners, mayors of cities from the counts and barons, was chaired and convened by the king. Parliament had the constitutional responsibility to elect the king and to perform the function of body guaranteeing the proper conduct of ordinary justice exercised by executioners, judges, notaries and other officials of the kingdom.\n\nIn 1410 the Sicilian Parliament held at Palazzo Corvaja of Taormina, in the presence of Queen Blanche I of Navarre, a historic meeting for the election of the King of Sicily after the death of Martin II. With the successive kings of Aragon, Sicily lost its political autonomy and a viceroy ruled the island. With Charles V in 1532 was again summoned a parliament in Palermo, which also continued to meet under Philip II, preserving its authority.\n\nIn Sicily the Bourbons ruled from Naples and found himself the function of Parliament is greatly reduced gradually until the revolution followed the riots of 1848, when it regained its centrality. \n\nIn fact, Palermo, 25 March of that year, met the General Parliament of Sicily, with a revolutionary government composed of a president and ministers from the president himself eligible. Vincenzo Fardella of Torrearsa and then Ruggero Settimo were elected president: declared void the Bourbon dynasty and offered the vacant throne of Sicily to the Duke of Genoa, the second son of Carlo Alberto of Savoy, who would not. The life of the Parliament of 1848-49 lasted briefly and already the so-called Gaeta decree of 28 February 1849 Ferdinand II of the Two Sicilies began to take possession of Sicily, and 14 May the assize was dissolved.\n\nReconstitution of the Parliament came at the end of World War II, when for the vast defuse separatist movement in Sicily, was granted special autonomy and was reborn, 25 May 1947, in Palermo, as Sicilian Regional Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "31863377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31863377", "title": "St. Mary's Law Journal", "text": "St. Mary's Law Journal\n\nSt. Mary's Law Journal is a law review published by an independent student group at St. Mary's University School of Law.\n\nThe journal is consistently ranked among the most frequently cited law journals by state and federal courts. In the last five years, the journal has ranked as high as #3 and as low as #31 for citations by courts out of 1,659 US law reviews. In 2010, the journal was the tenth most frequently cited law review in state and federal court decisions.\n\nThe journal was established in 1969 as a \"practitioner's journal\". The inaugural editorial board received substantial support from the staff of the \"Harvard Law Review\" and the \"Houston Law Review\". The first article was authored by Justice Joe Greenhill of the Texas Supreme Court, who later became Chief Justice of the court. Greenhill requested that the first editor-in-chief, Martin Beirne , become a named co-author because of his substantial work in preparing the article.\n\nThe journal publishes a quadrennial revision of \"Hall's Standards of Review in Texas.\" This article is a comprehensive guide to standards of review in Texas state courts and is widely cited by them, contributing substantially to the success of \"St. Mary's Law Journal\" in the Washington & Lee Law Journal Rankings.\n\nThe journal is headquartered in the Sarita Kenedy East Law Library at St. Mary's campus. Each year, 40 editors are selected total. Twelve are selected solely based on their first-year grades. Twelve are selected based solely on their competition scores. The remaining sixteen editors are selected based on a combination of their first-year grades and their competition scores. \n\nIn 2011, the \"St. Mary's Law Journal\" began producing the \"St. Mary's Journal on Legal Malpractice & Ethics\", which is produced annually by the members of the journal. It is the only printed law review in the United States to specifically focus on topics in the field of legal malpractice. This topic-specific journal addresses legal malpractice and ethics issues that impact the daily work of legal practitioners. To this effort, \"St. Mary's Law Journal\" also hosts an annual symposium on legal malpractice and ethics issues including modern topics like \"Professional Responsibility in Social Media\".\n\nAuthors who have been published in journal include Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court William Rehnquist, Carla Hills (then a member of the President Gerald Ford's cabinet), and Broadus A. Spivey, president of the State Bar of Texas.\n\nNotable alumni of the \"St. Mary's Law Journal\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "49307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49307", "title": "Standing (law)", "text": "Standing (law)\n\nIn law, standing or locus standi is the term for the ability of a party to demonstrate to the court sufficient connection to and harm from the law or action challenged to support that party's participation in the case. Standing exists from one of three causes:\n\nIn the United States, the current doctrine is that a person cannot bring a suit challenging the constitutionality of a law unless the plaintiff can demonstrate that he/it is or will \"imminently\" be harmed by the law. Otherwise, the court will rule that the plaintiff \"lacks standing\" to bring the suit, and will dismiss the case without considering the merits of the claim of unconstitutionality. To have a court declare a law unconstitutional, there must be a valid reason for the lawsuit. The party suing must have something to lose in order to sue unless it has automatic standing by action of law.\n\nThe Council of Europe created the first international court before which individuals have automatic \"locus standi\".\n\nIn Canadian administrative law, whether an individual has standing to bring an application for judicial review, or an appeal from the decision of a tribunal, is governed by the language of the particular statute under which the application or the appeal is brought. Some statutes provide for a narrow right of standing while others provide for a broader right of standing.\n\nFrequently a litigant wishes to bring a civil action for a declaratory judgment against a public body or official. This is considered an aspect of administrative law, sometimes with a constitutional dimension, as when the litigant seeks to have legislation declared unconstitutional.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada developed the concept of public interest standing in three constitutional cases commonly called \"the Standing trilogy\": \"Thorson v. Attorney General of Canada\", \"Nova Scotia Board of Censors v. McNeil\", and \"Minister of Justice v. Borowski\". The trilogy was summarized as follows in \"Canadian Council of Churches v. Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration)\":\n\nPublic-interest standing is also available in non-constitutional cases, as the Court found in \"Finlay v. Canada (Minister of Finance)\".\n\nIn British administrative law, the applicant needs to have a sufficient interest in the matter to which the application relates. This sufficient interest requirement has been construed liberally by the courts. As Lord Diplock put it:\n\n[i]t would ... be a grave danger to escape \"lacuna\" in our system of public law if a pressure group ... or even a single public spirited taxpayer, were prevented by outdated technical rules of \"locus standi\" from bringing the matter to the attention of the court to vindicate the rule of law and get the unlawful conduct stopped.\n\nIn the law of contract, the doctrine of privity meant that only those who were party to a contract could sue or be sued upon it. This doctrine was substantially amended by the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999. which allows beneficiaries under a contract to enforce it.\n\nAlmost all criminal prosecutions are brought by the state via the Crown Prosecution Service, so private prosecutions are rare. An exception was the case of Whitehouse v Lemon where Mrs Mary Whitehouse, a self-appointed guardian of suburban morality, was permitted to bring a private prosecution for \"blasphemous libel\" against the publisher of \"Gay News\", Denis Lemon. Victims of crime have standing to sue the perpetrator and they may claim criminal injuries compensation from the state. If the state fails properly to bring a case, the victim or his family mayhave standing to bring a private prosecution, as in the case of Stephen Lawrence.\n\nAustralia has a Common law understanding of \"locus standi\" or standing which is expressed in statutes such as the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 and common law decisions of the High Court of Australia especially the case \"Australian Conservation Foundation v Commonwealth\" (1980). At common law, the test for standing is whether the plaintiff has a 'special interest in the subject matter of the action'. Under the \"Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act\" 1977 to have standing the applicant must be ‘a person who is aggrieved’, defined as ‘a person whose interests are adversely affected’ by the decision or conduct complained of. This has generally been interpreted in accordance with the common law test.\n\nThere is no open standing, unless statute allows it, or represents needs of a specified class of people. The issue is one of remoteness.\n\nStanding may apply to class of aggrieved people, where essentially the closeness of the plaintiff to the subject matter is the test. Furthermore, a plaintiff must show that he or she has been specially affected in comparison with the public at large.\n\nAlso, while there is no open standing per se, prerogative writs like certiorari, writ of prohibition, quo warranto and habeas corpus have a low burden in establishing standing. <br> Australian courts also recognise amicus curiae (friend of the court), and the various Attorneys Generals have a presumed standing in administrative law cases.\n\nIn United States law, the Supreme Court has stated, \"In essence the question of standing is whether the litigant is entitled to have the court decide the merits of the dispute or of particular issues.\"\n\nThere are a number of requirements that a plaintiff must establish to have standing before a federal court. Some are based on the case or controversy requirement of the judicial power of Article Three of the United States Constitution, § 2, cl.1. As stated there, \"The Judicial Power shall extend to all Cases . . .[and] to Controversies . . .\" The requirement that a plaintiff have standing to sue is a limit on the role of the judiciary and the law of Article III standing is built on the idea of separation of powers. Federal courts may exercise power only \"in the last resort, and as a necessity\".\n\nThe American doctrine of standing is assumed as having begun with the case of \"Frothingham v. Mellon\". However, legal standing truly rests its first prudential origins in \"Fairchild v. Hughes\", (1922) which was authored by Justice Brandeis. In \"Fairchild\", a citizen sued the Secretary of State and the Attorney General to challenge the procedures by which the Nineteenth Amendment was ratified. Prior to it, the doctrine was that all persons had a right to pursue a private prosecution of a public right. Since then the doctrine has been embedded in judicial rules and some statutes.\n\nIn 2011, in \"Bond v. United States\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that a criminal defendant charged with violating a federal statute does have standing to challenge the constitutionality of that statute under the Tenth Amendment.\n\nThere are three standing requirements:\n\n\nAdditionally, there are three major prudential (judicially created) standing principles. Congress can override these principles via statute:\n\n\nIn 1984, the Supreme Court reviewed and further outlined the standing requirements in a major ruling concerning the meaning of the three standing requirements of injury, causation, and redressability.\n\nIn the suit, parents of black public school children alleged that the Internal Revenue Service was not enforcing standards and procedures that would deny tax-exempt status to racially discriminatory private schools. The Court found that the plaintiffs did not have the standing necessary to bring suit. Although the Court established a significant injury for one of the claims, it found the causation of the injury (the nexus between the defendant’s actions and the plaintiff’s injuries) to be too attenuated. \"The injury alleged was not fairly traceable to the Government conduct respondents challenge as unlawful\".\n\nIn another major standing case, \"Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife\", 504 U.S. 555 (1992), the Supreme Court elaborated on the redressability requirement for standing. The case involved a challenge to a rule promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior interpreting §7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA). The rule rendered §7 of the ESA applicable only to actions within the United States or on the high seas. The Court found that the plaintiffs did not have the standing necessary to bring suit, because no injury had been established. The injury claimed by the plaintiffs was that damage would be caused to certain species of animals and that this in turn injures the plaintiffs by the reduced likelihood that the plaintiffs would see the species in the future. The court insisted though that the plaintiffs had to show how damage to the species would produce imminent injury to the plaintiffs. The Court found that the plaintiffs did not sustain this burden of proof. \"The 'injury in fact' test requires more than an injury to a cognizable interest. It requires that the party seeking review be himself among the injured\". The injury must be imminent and not hypothetical.\n\nBeyond failing to show injury, the Court found that the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate the standing requirement of redressability. The Court pointed out that the respondents chose to challenge a more generalized level of government action, \"the invalidation of which would affect all overseas projects\". This programmatic approach has \"obvious difficulties insofar as proof of causation or redressability is concerned\".\n\nIn a 2000 case, \"Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens\", 529 U.S. 765 (2000), the United States Supreme Court endorsed the \"partial assignment\" approach to qui tam relator standing to sue under the False Claims Act — allowing private individuals to sue on behalf of the U.S. government for injuries suffered solely by the government.\n\nThe initial case that established the doctrine of standing, \"Frothingham v. Mellon\", was a taxpayer standing case.\n\nTaxpayer standing is the concept that any person who pays taxes should have standing to file a lawsuit against the taxing body if that body allocates funds in a way that the taxpayer feels is improper. The United States Supreme Court has held that taxpayer standing is not by itself a sufficient basis for standing against the United States government, unless the narrower Flast test is met. The Court has consistently found that the conduct of the federal government is too far removed from individual taxpayer returns for any injury to the taxpayer to be traced to the use of tax revenues, e.g., \"United States v. Richardson.\"\n\nIn \"DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno\", the Court extended this analysis to state governments as well. However, the Supreme Court has also held that taxpayer standing is constitutionally sufficient to sue a municipal government in a federal court.\n\nStates are also protected against lawsuits by their sovereign immunity. Even where states waive their sovereign immunity, they may nonetheless have their own rules limiting standing against simple taxpayer standing against the state. Furthermore, states have the power to determine what will constitute standing for a litigant to be heard in a state court, and may deny access to the courts premised on taxpayer standing alone.\n\nIn Florida, a taxpayer has standing to sue if the state government is acting unconstitutionally with respect to public funds, or if government action is causing some special injury to the taxpayer that is not shared by taxpayers in general. In Virginia, the Supreme Court of Virginia has more or less adopted a similar rule. An individual taxpayer generally has standing to challenge an act of a city or county where they live, but does not have general standing to challenge state expenditures.\n\nWith limited exceptions, a party cannot have standing to challenge the constitutionality of a statute unless he will be subjected to the provisions of that statute. There are some exceptions, however; for example, courts will accept First Amendment challenges to a statute on overbreadth grounds, where a person who is only partially affected by a statute can challenge the parts that do not affect him on the grounds that laws that restrict speech have a chilling effect on other people's right to free speech.\n\nThe only other way someone can have standing to challenge the constitutionality of a statute is if the existence of the statute would otherwise deprive him of a right or a privilege even if the statute itself would not apply to him. The Virginia Supreme Court made this point clear in the case of \"Martin v. Ziherl\" 607 S.E.2d 367 (Va. 2005). Martin and Ziherl were girlfriend and boyfriend and engaged in unprotected sexual intercourse when Martin discovered that Ziherl had infected her with herpes, even though he knew he was infected and did not inform her of this. She sued him for damages, but because it was illegal (at the time the case was filed) to commit \"fornication\" (sexual intercourse between a man and a woman who are not married), Ziherl argued that Martin could not sue him because joint tortfeasors - those involved in committing a crime - cannot sue each other over acts occurring as a result of a criminal act (\"Zysk v. Zysk\", 404 S.E.2d 721 (Va. 1990)). Martin argued in rebuttal that because of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (finding that state's sodomy law unconstitutional), Virginia's anti-fornication law was also unconstitutional for the reasons cited in Lawrence. Martin argued, therefore, she could, in fact, sue Ziherl for damages.\n\nLower courts decided that because the Commonwealth's Attorney doesn't prosecute fornication cases and no one had been prosecuted for fornication anywhere in Virginia in over 100 years, Martin had no risk of prosecution and thus lacked standing to challenge the statute. Martin appealed. Since Martin had something to lose - the ability to sue Ziherl for damages - if the statute is upheld, she had standing to challenge the constitutionality of the statute even though the possibility of her being prosecuted for violating it was zero. Since the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Lawrence\" has found that there is a privacy right in one's private, noncommercial sexual practices, the Virginia Supreme Court decided that the statute against fornication was unconstitutional. The finding gave Martin standing to sue Ziherl since the decision in \"Zysk\" was no longer applicable.\n\nHowever, the only reason Martin had standing to challenge the statute was that she had something to lose if it stayed on the books.\n\nIn \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\", the Supreme Court ruled that being the proponents of a ballot measure is not by itself enough to confer legal standing. In that case, Proposition 8 had banned same-sex marriage in California, a ban that was ruled unconstitutional. The Supreme Court ruled that the proponents of Proposition 8 has no standing in court since they failed to show that they were harmed by the decision.\n\nState law on standing differs substantially from federal law and varies considerably from state to state.\n\nOn December 29, 2009, the California Court of Appeal for the Sixth District ruled that California Code of Civil Procedure Section 367 cannot be read as imposing a federal-style standing doctrine on California's code pleading system of civil procedure. In California, the fundamental inquiry is \"always\" whether the plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded a cause of action, not whether the plaintiff has some entitlement to judicial action separate from proof of the substantive merits of the claim advanced. The court acknowledged that the word \"standing\" is often sloppily used to refer to what is really \"jus tertii\", and held that \"jus tertii\" in state law is not the same thing as the federal standing doctrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26210069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26210069", "title": "Straight face test", "text": "Straight face test\n\nThe straight face test (also laugh test or giggle test) is a test of whether something is legitimate or serious based on whether a given statement or legal argument can be made sincerely, without any compulsion to laugh. The phrase goes back to about 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11177498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11177498", "title": "Supreme Court of Justice of Colombia", "text": "Supreme Court of Justice of Colombia\n\nThe Supreme Court of Colombia () in Bogotá is the highest judicial body in civil and penal matters and issues of criminal and civil procedure in Colombia. The Supreme Court of Colombia is the highest authority in regard to the interpretation of administrative law, constitutional law, and the administration of the judiciary\n\nThe court consists of twenty three magistrates, elected by the same institution in list conformed by the Superior Council of the Judiciary for individual terms of eight years. The court meets at the Palace of Justice in the Bolívar Square of Bogota.\n\nAfter the Colombian first declaration of independence from Spain on 20 July 1810, a number of independent States like Tunja (1811), Antioquia (1812), Cartagena de Indias (1812) and Cundinamarca (1812) were established. Each State had its own body in charge of the administration of justice. Later, when these States established the \"Provincias Unidas de la Nueva Granada\" (United Provinces of New Granada), on 23 September 1814, the \"Alto Tribunal de Justicia\" (High Tribunal of Justice) was established. In 1819, the Republic of Colombia (the Gran Colombia) was born. A Court was created according to the provisions its Constitution of 30 August 1821, named \"Alta Corte de Justicia\" (High Court of Justice). In 1830, the Gran Colombia was dissolved and the Republic of New Granada was formed. As per the provisions of its Constitution of 29 February 1832, the \"Corte Suprema de Justicia\" (Supreme Court of Justice) was established. On 20 May 1853, it became the \"Corte Suprema de la Nación\" (Supreme Court of the Nation). In 1858, the Grenadine Confederation was founded. On adoption of its Constitution of 22 May 1858, the \"Courte Suprema\" (Supreme Court) became the body in charge of the administration of justice. In 1863, the Grenadine Confederation was replaced by the \"Estados Unidos de Colombia\" (United States of Colombia). On adoption of its Constitution of 8 May 1863, the \"Corte Suprema Federal\" (Supreme Federal Court) was established. Finally, after the establishment of the \"República de Colombia\" (Republic of Colombia) and on adoption of its Constitution of August 4, 1886, the body was renamed as the present, the \"Corte Suprema de Justicia\" (Supreme Court of Justice) on 3 September 1886. Its first President was Rito Antonio Martínez.\n\nIn 1985 in the Palace of Justice siege, members of the M-19 guerrilla group took over the Palace of Justice, and held the Supreme Court hostage, intending to put President Belisario Betancur \"on trial\". Hours later, after a military raid, the incident left all the rebels and 11 of the 25 Supreme Court Justices dead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28454878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28454878", "title": "Tanzanian nationality law", "text": "Tanzanian nationality law\n\nTanzanian nationality law is the law which deals with citizenship and other forms of nationality. A Tanzanian citizen is anyone who is in possession of citizenship to the United Republic of Tanzania. Nationality law is mentioned in the Constitution of Tanzania.\n\nThe citizenship law was first implemented after independence in 1961 and amended in 1964, when Tanganyika and Zanzibar united to form Tanzania.\n\nAny child born within the borders of the United Republic of Tanzania, on or after Union Day, 26 April 1964, is granted citizenship of Tanzania, except for children of foreign diplomats, as stated in the Tanzania Citizenship Act of 1995.\n\nA person born outside Tanzania enjoys a right to Tanzanian citizenship from birth provided that at least one parent is a Tanzanian citizen by birth or naturalization.\n\nAny foreign national with no ancestry or birth ties with Tanzania may apply for citizenship through naturalisation. In order for a foreign national to become a Tanzanian citizen through naturalisation, the following conditions must be met.\n\n\nFollowing the lodging of the application, the applicant must publish a notice of intention to naturalise in two consecutive issues of the registered newspapers. After the application has been scrutinised by various officials, a final recommendation is made to the Minister of Home Affairs, who ultimately decides whether or not to approve the application.\n\nA person receiving Tanzanian citizenship by naturalisation must renounce foreign citizenships under current law.\n\nThe case for Minors\nIn the case of minors, according to the citizenship act of 1995, once the parents are granted citizenship to the United Republic of Tanzania, the child is also by right entitled to receive citizenship, considered they are under legal age and still living under the care of their parents.\n\nTanzania does not currently allow its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Tanzanian citizenship, except in the case of Tanzanian woman acquiring foreign nationality through marriage, or persons under 18 who acquire Tanzanian citizenship by birth or descent. Multiple nationals automatically lose their Tanzanian citizenship at 18 unless they renounce all other citizenships. The ban on dual citizenship has historically been motivated by suspicions about potential disloyalty amongst the sizable Asian minority. Nevertheless, a debate has arisen about permitting dual citizenship. In August 2007, the minister of home affairs submitted a report recommending that the law be changed. Nevertheless, Tanzania currently continues to restrict dual citizenship.\n\nTanzania has been a member of the Commonwealth of Nations since 26 April 1964, following the merger of Tanganyika and Zanzibar. Being that it is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, Tanzanian citizens are also Commonwealth citizens, a status which entitles them to certain rights and benefits in the United Kingdom. Amongst some of the benefits, in some countries without Tanzanian consular representation, citizens of the United Republic may enquire or seek assistance with the United Kingdom's High commission.\n\nFollowing its collapse in 1977, the East African community was again revived in 2001, containing the original three founding states; namely, Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. In 2007, the organisation expanded to include the Republic of Rwanda and the Republic of Burundi as part of the East African Community. in 2016 the organisation expanded to include the Republic of South Sudan. \n\nOwing to the customs union, relaxed immigration regulations and free movement of labour set to be implemented within the community,Tanzanian citizens stand to benefit free movement within the East African Community zone, likewise citizens of other East African Community member states, may also enjoy free movement to Tanzania and other member territories and unlimited duration of stay while still maintaining their original nationality.\n\nThose who acquired Tanzanian citizenship at birth cannot be involuntarily stripped of their citizenship, though they may voluntarily renounce it. Those wishing to renounce their Tanzanian citizenship must provide evidence of another country's citizenship as well as return their Tanzanian passport.\n\nThose who acquired Tanzanian citizenship by naturalisation may have their citizenship revoked for the following reasons:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7070415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7070415", "title": "The Book of Lord Shang", "text": "The Book of Lord Shang\n\nThe Book of Lord Shang () is an ancient Chinese text from the 3rd century BC, regarded as a foundational work of \"Chinese Legalism\". The earliest surviving of such texts (the second being the Han Feizi, which is generally considered more philosophically engaging), it is named for and to some extent attributed to major Qin reformer Shang Yang, who served as minister to Duke Xiao of Qin (r. 361338) from 359 until his death in 338 and is generally considered to be the father of that state's \"legalism\". \n\nThe \"Book of Lord Shang\" includes a large number of ordinances, essays, and courtly petitions attributed to Shang Yang, as well as discourses delivered at the Qin court. The book focuses mainly on maintaining societal order through a system of impartial laws that strictly mete out rewards and punishments for citizens' actions. The first chapters advise promoting agriculture and suppressing other low-priority secondary activities, as well as encouraging martial virtues for use in creating and maintaining a state army for wars of conquest.\n\nWith some chapters written decades or even more than a century after his death, no critical scholar supposes the text to have been written by Shang Yang, though \"some chapters were almost certainly penned by Shang Yang himself; others may come from the hand of his immediate disciples and followers.\" Highly composite, it nonetheless forms a \"relatively coherent ideological vision\", likely reflecting the evolution of what Zheng Liangshu (1989) dubbed Shang Yang’s 'intellectual current' (xuepai 學派).\n\nLike the later Han Feizi, the Book of Lord Shang insists on the anachronism of the policies of the distant past, drawing on more recent history. In comparison with it, though considering them to be \"digressions of minor importance\", Yuri Pines notes in \"Legalism in Chinese Philosophy\" that \"The Book of Lord Shang\" \"allowed for the possibility that the need for excessive reliance on coercion would end and a milder, morality-driven political structure would evolve.\" The Han Feizi does not.\n\nMichael Puett and Mark Edward Lewis compare the Rites of Zhou to the \"Legalism\" of Shang Yang.\n\nThe Book of Lord Shang teaches that \"The law is an expression of love for the people... The sage, if he is able to strengthen the state thereby, does not model himself on antiquity, and if he is able to benefit the people thereby, does not adhere to the established rites.\" As such, the philosophy espoused is quite explicitly anti-Confucian:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53687", "title": "Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations", "text": "Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations\n\nThe Code of Federal Regulations, Telecommunications, containing the U.S. federal regulations for telecommunications can be found under Title 47 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15673153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15673153", "title": "Trademark distinctiveness", "text": "Trademark distinctiveness\n\nTrademark distinctiveness is an important concept in the law governing trademarks and service marks. A trademark may be eligible for registration, or registrable, if it performs the essential trademark function, and has distinctive character. Registrability can be understood as a continuum, with \"inherently distinctive\" marks at one end, \"generic\" and \"descriptive\" marks with no distinctive character at the other end, and \"suggestive\" and \"arbitrary\" marks lying between these two points. \"Descriptive\" marks must acquire distinctiveness through secondary meaning - consumers have come to recognize the mark as a source indicator - to be protectable. \"Generic\" terms are used to refer to the product or service itself and cannot be used as trademarks.\n\nIn United States trademark law, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Hunting World 537 F.2d 4 (2nd Cir. 1976) established the spectrum of trademark distinctiveness in the US, breaking trademarks into classes which are accorded differing degrees of protection. Courts often speak of marks falling along the following \"spectrum of distinctiveness,\" also known within the US as the \"Abercrombie classification\" or \"Abercrombie factors\":\n\nA fanciful / inherently distinctive trademark is prima facie registrable, and comprises an entirely invented or \"fanciful\" sign. For example, \"Kodak\" had no meaning before it was adopted and used as a trademark in relation to goods, whether photographic goods or otherwise. Invented marks are neologisms which will not previously have been found in any dictionary.\n\nAn arbitrary trademark is usually a common word which is used in a meaningless context (e.g. \"Apple\" for computers). Such marks consist of words or images which have some dictionary meaning before being adopted as trademarks, but which are used in connection with products or services unrelated to that dictionary meaning. Arbitrary marks are also immediately eligible for registration. \"Salty\" would be an arbitrary mark if it used in connection with e.g. telephones such as in \"Salty Telephones\", as the term \"salt\" has no particular connection with such products.\n\nA suggestive trademark tends to indicate the nature, quality, or a characteristic of the products or services in relation to which it is used, but does not describe this characteristic, and requires imagination on the part of the consumer to identify the characteristic. Suggestive marks invoke the consumer’s perceptive imagination. An example of a suggestive mark is Blu-ray, a new technology of high-capacity data storage that utilizes a \"blue\" (actually violet) laser.\n\nA descriptive mark is a term with a dictionary meaning which is used in connection with products or services directly related to that meaning. An example might be \"Salty\" used in connection with saltine crackers or anchovies. Such terms are not registrable unless it can be shown that distinctive character has been established in the term through extensive use in the marketplace (see further below). Lektronic was famously refused protection by the USPTO on the grounds of being descriptive for electronic goods.\n\nA generic term is the common name for the products or services in connection with which it is used, such as \"salt\" when used in connection with sodium chloride. A generic term is not capable of serving the essential trademark function of distinguishing the products or services of a business from the products or services of other businesses, and therefore cannot be afforded any legal protection. This is because there has to be some term which may generally be used by anyone—including other manufacturers—to refer to a product without using some organization's proprietary trademark. Marks which become generic after losing distinctive character are known as genericized trademarks. Marks which are a misspelling of a generic term (e.g., the elimination of a space) do not change the generic significance of the term.\n\nIn trademark litigation, courts are most frequently asked to distinguish between \"suggestive\" and \"descriptive\" marks on the one hand, and between \"descriptive\" and \"generic\" marks on the other. This is because suggestive marks, like fanciful and arbitrary marks, are presumed to be entitled to trademark protection, while descriptive marks are entitled to protection if they have become known as representing the producer of the goods, and generic marks can never receive protection. It can be seen from the examples above that the distinctive character of a term is closely related to the products or services in relation to which the term is used.\n\nA general method for assessing the distinctive character of a mark is to consider a consumer's reaction to a mark. The mark may only be inherently registrable if the consumer has never encountered the mark before. On the other hand, the mark is unlikely to be inherently registrable if it informs him about any characteristic of the relevant products or services (e.g. whether they are delicious, large, spicy, black, or sweet, in the case of fruit). In any other case the mark may not be registrable.\n\nAnother example of a descriptive mark would be a geographical word or phrase that merely indicates the origin of the product or service. For example, Houston based ice cream might find that the name \"Houston ice cream\" is denied trademark protection on the grounds that the word Houston is merely descriptive. However, they might have better luck with the name \"North Pole ice cream\". In the latter case, although North Pole is a geographical location, the ice cream is not actually made at the North Pole, and no reasonable person would assume that the phrase North Pole is literally descriptive.\n\nTherefore marks that identify or describe a product or service, or that are in common use, or that are used as geographical indications, generally cannot be registered as trademarks, and remain in the public domain for use by anyone. For example, a generic term such as \"apple\", or descriptive terms such as \"red\" or \"juicy\" could not be registered in relation to apples.\n\nPrimary consideration in the selection and use of trademarks should be given to marks which are inherently distinctive, as they possess the strongest distinctive character and do not require evidence of use to establish acquired distinctiveness. A fanciful, arbitrary, or suggestive term can be inherently distinctive and registrable without proof of acquired distinctiveness.\nAlthough these categories are most easily applied in relation to trademarks comprising words, the same general principles are applied in relation to all kinds of trademarks. For example, a pine tree shape is descriptive when used on pine-scented products.\n\nA trademark with no distinctive character (i.e. a mark which is not inherently distinctive) is prima facie unregistrable. However, most jurisdictions may still allow such marks to be registered if the trademark owner can demonstrate, typically by reference to evidence of use, that consumers in the marketplace exclusively associate the mark, as used on the identified goods or in connection with the identified services, with a particular commercial origin or source (i.e. the trademark owner). \"Use\" may include authorized use by a licensee or other party. If the trade marks office is satisfied that the evidence demonstrates that a mark has \"acquired\" distinctive character \"as a matter of fact\", then the mark may be accepted for registration on the basis of acquired distinctiveness.\n\nThe nature and extent of acceptable evidence of use varies between jurisdictions, although the most useful evidence usually includes sales figures, details of advertising and promotional expenditure, and examples of promotional material. Consumer surveys may also help establish that consumers chiefly associate an otherwise non-distinctive mark with the trademark owner and its products or services. Generally, evidence of use may only be acceptable or relevant if it covers a certain period of time (e.g. three years prior to the filing date of the trademark application) and originates from within the jurisdiction where registration is sought.\n\nThe terminology of acquired distinctiveness is accepted in the European Union and Commonwealth jurisdictions such as Australia, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom, and the common law jurisdiction of the United States (which also uses the term secondary meaning). In the U.S., if a trademark has been used for a continuous period of at least five years after the date of registration, the right to use the mark and the registration may become \"incontestable\" (e.g. invulnerable to cancellation for non-use, but not for becoming generic). In such cases the USPTO checks and confirms whether the request for incontestability meets formality requirements, but whether a registration is incontestable at law can only be determined during legal proceedings involving the registration.\n\nThe essential function of a trademark is to exclusively identify the commercial source or origin of products or services, such that a trademark, properly called, indicates source or serves as a badge of origin. The use of a trademark in this way is known as trademark use. Certain exclusive rights attach to a registered mark, which can be enforced by way of an action for trademark infringement, while unregistered trademark rights may be enforced pursuant to the common law tort of passing off.\n\nIt should be noted that trademark rights generally arise out of the use and/or registration (see below) of a mark in connection only with a specific type or range of products or services. Although it may sometimes be possible to take legal action to prevent the use of a mark in relation to products or services outside this range (e.g. for passing off), this does not mean that trademark law prevents the use of that mark by the general public. A common word, phrase, or other sign can only be removed from the public domain to the extent that a trademark owner is able to maintain exclusive rights over that sign in relation to certain products or services, assuming there are no other trademark objections. For a case study in both concepts, see Apple Corps and its disputes with Apple, Inc.\n\nIf a court rules that a trademark has become \"generic\" through common use (such that the mark no longer performs the essential trademark function and the average consumer no longer considers that exclusive rights attach to it), the corresponding registration may also be ruled invalid.\n\nFor example, the Bayer company's trademark \"Aspirin\" has been ruled generic in the United States, so other companies may use that name for acetylsalicylic acid as well (although it is still a trademark in Canada). Xerox for photocopiers and Band-Aid for adhesive bandages are both trademarks which are at risk of succumbing to death by becoming declared generic in certain countries, something that the respective trademark owners actively seek to prevent. In order to prevent marks becoming generic, trademark owners often contact those who appear to be using the trademark incorrectly, from web page authors to dictionary editors, and request that they cease the improper usage.\n\nThe proper use of a trademark means using the mark as an adjective, not as a noun or a verb, though for certain trademarks, use as nouns and, less commonly, verbs is common. For example, Adobe sent e-mails to many web authors using the term \"photoshopped\" telling them that they should only use the term \"modified by Adobe® Photoshop® software.\" Xerox has also purchased print advertisements declaring that \"you cannot 'xerox' a document, but you can copy it on a Xerox Brand copying on machine.\" Another popular example is the use of the word \"frappuccino\" by Starbucks customers to mean any blended coffee beverage, though employees are instructed to only say \"frappuccino blended coffee\" or \"frappuccino blended cream\" when referring to such drinks. This rule is not hard-and-fast, however; for example, Lexis-Nexis has a U.S. trademark registration for \"Shepardize,\" Reg. No. 1743711, and defines \"Shepardizing on a web page as \"the process of looking up citations\" in \"a series of books called Shepard's Citations.\" Such efforts may or may not be successful in preventing genericism in the long run, which depends less on the mark owner's efforts and more on how the public actually perceives and uses the mark. In fact, legally it is more important that the trademark holder visibly and actively seems to attempt to prevent its trademark from becoming generic, regardless of real success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29525664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29525664", "title": "Transport Legislation Review", "text": "Transport Legislation Review\n\nThe Transport Legislation Review was a policy and legislation review project conducted by the Department of Transport in the State of Victoria, Australia between 2004 and late 2010. The aim of the project was review of transport policy and laws and generation of new policy and legislation as a platform for better transport across the State.\n\nThe Review was the most extensive project of its kind in transport in Victoria and touched all areas of transport including land and water based transport activities. Proposals were developed by the Review for consideration by the Victorian Government and proceeded initially as policy ideas. Proposals were progressively refined over time using modules and sub projects sometimes in response to stakeholder input. Outputs from Review often proceeded as new State regulatory schemes and laws, commonly in the form of Bills considered by the Victorian Parliament.\n\nThe new laws which arose from the Review had regulatory and de-regulatory effects in particular areas. The Review was notable for pursuing principle-based initiatives, introducing performance-based concepts into transport law often in the form of safety duties owed by industry participants to persons using transport services and to other industry participants and suites of new administrative and court sanctions targeted at non compliance. The project also had significant impacts on organisational arrangements in Victorian transport.\n\nThe Victorian Government Ministers who oversaw the work of the project at times were Peter Batchelor, Lynne Kosky, Tim Pallas and Martin Pakula.\n\nThe work of the Transport Legislation Review was described in a 2009 paper released by the Department of Transport:\n\nThe explanatory memorandum to the Transport Legislation Amendment (Compliance, Enforcement and Regulation) Bill 2010 also observed that:\n\nThe Transport Legislation Review arose from concerns about the poor state of Victoria's transport laws. In particular, most transport legislation was thought to be complex, unnecessarily detailed and generally based on old policy. The Victorian Government was also troubled that areas of the laws did not reflect regulatory advances in other industries and were not sufficiently informed by overseas reforms.\n\nPearce and Shepherd observed that it \"...was a timely point to commence the review, given it had been 20 years since the State's central transport statute, the Transport Act 1983, was first enacted... They went on to say that the -\n\nThe Review aimed to complete a wholesale revision of the State's transport policies and legislation. The project was guided by a target legislative framework diagram showing the final desired state of transport legislation in Victoria after completion of work. The diagram was headed by a overarching portfolio-based statute intended to provide long term symbolic and aspirational direction, the Transport Integration Act, supported by a range of transport modal and subject-specific statutes. Diagrams showing the current and former legislative structures were also used.\n\nThe Review was policy-driven and proceeded on a modular basis. This approach \"...sought to more clearly delineate between overarching institutional elements and more detailed regulatory, operational, project and service delivery elements. It also sought to explicitly identify linkages within the transport portfolio (road, rail, tram, bus, taxi, hire car, tow trucks) and intefaces with other portolios (local government authorities and planning portfolios).\"\n\nThe majority of the new statutes which emerged from the work of the Review were preceded by extensive policy and stakeholder processes. This typically involved the public release of documents outlining issues in the relevant transport sector and later circulation of draft proposals which signalled the intended direction of change. The conduct of industry and public consultation forums and the receipt of public submissions was a feature of this activity.\n\nThe Review concentrated on long, medium and short term measures. Global sector or scheme reviews typically resulted in the creation of suites of new contemporary regulatory policy which led in most instances to new Acts of Parliament which repealed existing Acts. These are called principal statutes and typically take two years or more to fully complete. Smaller or mid range reforms, on the other hand, were pursued through Acts which amended existing principal statutes.\n\nThe work of the Transport Legislation Review led to the development and enactment of seven major principal statutes between early 2006 and late 2010. The centrepiece of the Review and now the prime transport statute in Victoria is the Transport Integration Act 2010 which came into effect on 1 July 2010. The Act \"...locates the development of a policy framework for integrated and sustainable transport in Victoria within global and international debates regarding sustainable development. This has resulted in the inclusion of a vision, set of objectives and decision making principles for transport in the (transport Integration Act) reflecting an integration and sustainability policy framework.\"\n\nIn addition to the Transport Integration Act, the six principal statutes generated by the Review were:\nA wide range of amending statutes was also generated. While generally smaller than most principal statutes, the amending Acts often dealt with significant \"big picture\" changes and were routinely used to pursue discrete, urgent and priority regulatory reforms.\n\nSome of these statutes developed by the Review included:\nA range of new regulations was also generated by the Review. In the majority of cases, the regulations were advertised publicly in draft form accompanied by regulatory impact statements, and made available for comment by individuals, the community and affected industries.\n\nExamples of new principal regulations developed by the Review included:\nExamples of other regulations developed by the Review included:\nThe work of the Transport Legislation Review had significant impacts on governance arrangements in the Victorian Transport portfolio. These effects can be summarised as follows:\n\nThe Review had major impacts on Victoria's transport legislation suite. Before the Review, Victoria's suite of legislation was divided into land-based and water-based groupings. The land-based group covering rail and road statutes and associated activities was headed by the Transport Act 1983. By contrast, the water-based grouping regulating the ports and marine sectors had no central coordinating statute. Both groupings were characterised by old and inconsistent underlying policy frameworks.\n\nThe Transport Integration Act was developed by the Review to provide a central statute to facilitate integration and co-ordination of the whole transport portfolio through the introduction of a modern policy framework and re-establishment of agencies with consistent charters which were tied bound by the framework. The development of the Transport Integration Act also ultimately led to the subordination and renaming of the Transport Act as the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983.\n\nFurther complex and discrete structural changes were driven by the Review through policy reviews and the development of new individual statutory schemes. For example, the work of the Review led to Victoria's first ever stand alone statutory schemes for rail and bus safety (the Rail Safety Act and Bus Safety Act), vehicle towing regulation (the Accident Towing Services Act), reduction of red tape in respect of approval and delivery of major transport projects (the Major Transport Projects Facilitation Act), tourist railways regulation (the Tourist and Heritage Railways Act) and public transport ticketing requirements (the Transport (Ticketing) Regulations).\n\nThe work of the Transport Legislation Review concluded in late 2010. Major areas signalled for overhaul before the conclusion of the project included policy reviews and new statutes in the following areas:\n\nTaxi industry reform was taken up as a major issue by the Victorian Government when the Review concluded. The Government established a Taxi Industry Inquiry in May 2011 under a new agency, the Taxi Services Commission. The Inquiry ultimately recommended major changes to policy and legislation to reform the taxi and small commercial passenger vehicles sector. The recommendations are currently being implemented.\n\nThe Transport Legislation Review project and its policy and legislation projects were well supported during the term of the project. Most Acts and regulations generated by the project were passed or made with broad support and little or no opposition from affected parties. In the six years of the project, no Act or regulation failed to be passed by the Victorian Parliament even when the Government of the day did not control Parliamentary numbers. The overwhelming majority of Act products, for example, were passed by Parliament with all party support.\n\nWhile the Review was not subject to public criticism, some individual policy and legislative proposals arising from it were criticised. For example, the Rail Safety Act 2006 was opposed on a reasoned basis in the Victorian Parliament by Liberal and National party members of Parliament. However, the Bill was ultimately passed. Several policy proposals developed by the project including in 2009 during a review of the Marine Act 1988 were abandoned and not included in the subsequent Marine Safety Act 2010 due to widespread opposition.\n\nThe Bill for the Transport Integration Act was criticised by Liberal and National party members during its passage through Parliament but was not opposed. Finally, a proposal to add port authorities to the Transport Integration Act organisational framework was opposed and eventually defeated in the Legislative Council by the Liberal, National and Green parties. However, the Bill was later passed by the Victorian Parliament due to use of a dispute resolution process.\n\n"}
{"id": "375901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375901", "title": "Worshipful Company of Arbitrators", "text": "Worshipful Company of Arbitrators\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Arbitrators is 93rd in the order of precedence of the Livery Companies of the City of London. The organisation formally became a Livery Company on 17 March 1981. The Company supports education in the field of arbitration. It also functions as a charitable institution. Its motto (as displayed beneath its coat of arms) is \"Law and Custom\".\n\nAs with other Livery Companies, there are two main categories of membership: \"Liverymen\" and \"Freemen\". Its limit of 300 Liverymen was decreed by the Court of Aldermen, all of whom must be Freemen of the City of London. Being admitted as a Liveryman acknowledges a dedication to good government and order. Only Liverymen may be part of the leadership of the Company; the Master, the Senior Warden, the Junior Warden and the Court of Assistants; likewise only Liverymen may nominate others for membership.\n\nCompany Freemen must be of good character and have an interest in and relevant experience of private dispute resolution (while many of the older Companies' links with their original trades have expired, most of the newer Livery Companies maintain close ties with their vocations). \n\nThe Arbitrators' Company (as it is alternatively styled) arranges a programme of activities to promote arbitration and interest in arbitration in London. In such matters it is held to be at the leading edge of ideas and development, in ways which cross boundaries between different dispute resolution specialisations in all fields, including commerce and all business and domestic activities.\n\nThe Company has established charitable trusts through which it expects to continue building substantial funds, with the aim of supporting education in the field of arbitration.\n\nIt provides members with the opportunity of hearing from distinguished experts in its field and to exchange ideas and views in convivial surroundings. It is also dedicated to the promotion of the City of London as the centre of excellence for International Dispute Resolution.\n\nThe Company is a member of the Financial Services Group of Livery Companies, the other 11 members of which are the Worshipful Companies of Chartered Accountants, Actuaries, International Bankers, Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, Insurers, Information Technologists, City of London Solicitors, Management Consultants, Marketors, Tax Advisers, and World Traders.\n\n"}
