{"id": "12008435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12008435", "title": "Ancient Diocese of Noyon", "text": "Ancient Diocese of Noyon\n\nThe former French Catholic diocese of Noyon lay in the north-east of France, around Noyon. It was formed when Saint Medardus moved the seat of the bishopric at Vermandois to Noyon, in the sixth century. For four centuries it was united with the bishopric of Tournai. Then in the twelfth century it was again independent, and the bishop of Noyon became a \"pairie-comté\" of France.\n\nThe diocese of Noyon was brought to an end by the French Revolution. Its territory passed to the diocese of Beauvais.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24946793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24946793", "title": "Arturo Salazar Mejía", "text": "Arturo Salazar Mejía\n\nArturo Salazar Mejía (April 11, 1921 – November 1, 2009) was the Roman Catholic bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Pasto, Colombia.\n\nOrdained on February 6, 1944, Salazar Mejía was made a bishop by Pope Paul VI on October 14, 1965 and was ordained on January 6, 1966 retiring on February 6, 1995.\n"}
{"id": "45332515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45332515", "title": "Battle of Nirmogarh", "text": "Battle of Nirmogarh\n\nIn August 1700, ANANDPUR, which was then the seat of Guru Gobind Singh, was attacked by a combined force of several of the surrounding hill chiefs. For four days, their troops assaulted successively the four fortresses built around the main citadel, Anandgarh, but they found all of them impregnable. Finally, they laid a siege to Anandgarh in the hope of starving the sikhs into surrender, but without effect. They then resorted to a ruse. They offered peace to Guru Gobind Singh upon solemn oaths, only if he would leave Anandpur temporarily to enable them to lift the siege with honour. The Guru agreed and on 2 October 1700 retired to a camp set up on the hills around the village of Hardo Namoh. The hilltop where he had established himself came to be known as Namohgarh or Nirmohgarh. The hill rajas did not keep their word, and again surrounded the Sikhs. The latter repulsed their attacks which, according to the BhattVahis, took place on 7, 12, and 13 October 1700. On 14 October. Guru Gobind Singh and his Sikhs broke the cordon and crossed the Sutlej into Basohli, a small friendly state. It is said that, during the siege of Nirmohgarh, the hill chiefs succeeded in requisitioning the services of some imperial troops, including a cannoneer. Just at the opening of the next engagement, the cannoneer fired a shot aimed at Guru Gobind Singh, who was sitting on the top of Nirmohgarh hill. The Guru, however, remained unhurt, although an attendant, Bhai Ram Singh, was killed. The Guru instantly picked his bow and arrow and pierced the cannoneer dead.Hence hilly rajas failed in their mission.\nSee Also\nThe site now has a memorial in the shape of small singleroom gurudwara.\n"}
{"id": "14001486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14001486", "title": "Biblical and Quranic narratives", "text": "Biblical and Quranic narratives\n\nThe Quran, the central religious text of Islam, contains references to more than fifty people and events also found in the Bible. While the stories told in each book are generally comparable, important differences sometimes emerge. The versions written in the Hebrew Bible and the Christian New Testament predate the Quran's versions archaeologically. As such, non-Muslims regard the Quran's versions as being derived directly or indirectly from the earlier materials. Muslims understand the Quran's versions to be witness accounts from an omnipotent God. As such, Muslims generally hold that the earlier versions are distorted through flawed processes of transmission and interpretation, and understand the Quran's versions to be more accurate to the actual events.\n\nOften, stories related in the Quran tend to concentrate on the moral or spiritual significance of events rather than the details. Biblical stories come from diverse sources and authors, so their attention to detail varies individually.\n\nAccording to one of the Genesis creation narratives, God initially created the first human, a man named Adam, from \"the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life\"; thereafter God created a woman named Eve from one of Adam's ribs. God placed them in the paradisiacal Garden of Eden, telling them to eat any food there they wished, except that from a single tree, the \"tree of the knowledge of good and evil\", warning that if they did eat from the tree, they would die. According to the story, a Serpent (often believed to be Satan) tempted them to partake of fruit from the tree, telling them that they would become like God themselves by doing so; both then ate from it. Immediately thereafter, they became ashamed and covered their nakedness with leaves. God questioned them concerning their actions, reminding them of His command to not eat of the tree. He next put enmity between the woman and the serpent, and between humans and the 'tempter', then forced Adam and Eve to leave the garden, following which these two humans then populated the earth.\n\nAccording to the Islamic creation narrative in the Quran, before creating Adam from clay by uttering the simple word \"Be\", God informed the Angels of His divine plan to \"create a vicegerent on earth\". When they asked him \"will You place therein one who will do harm and shed blood, while we, we hymn Your praise and sanctify You?\" He said: \"Surely I know that which you know not.\" After creating Adam, God taught him the names of all things as well as those of the Angels, which Adam then repeated correctly after the Angels were unable to comply when God asked them to do so from their own knowledge. God next commanded all of the angels to prostrate themselves before God, to honour God's new creation and to display obedience to God. All of them did except for Iblis (thereafter known as Shaitaan), was arrogant and refused to comply because he thought Adam was inferior to him because he was created from clay, while Iblis was created from fire. Shaitaan subsequently swore to mislead mankind from the \"straight path of God\", and God responded to his arrogance and disobedience by expelling him from Heaven.\n\nIslam believes that God thoroughly forgave Adam and Eve their transgression when they begged His mercy; while in the biblical story death is a punishment for transgressing God's command and death remains on Adam, Eve and their descendants.\n\nAmong the many significant differences between the stories are:\n\n(See also: Bible: Book of Genesis:, and Qur'an: Surah Al-Baqara:30-39, Surah Al-A'raf:19–27, and Surah Ta-Ha:115.\n\nSee Genesis and Al-Ma'ida .\n\nAccording to the Bible, Adam and Eve had two sons: Cain, the eldest, and Abel, his brother. Each made sacrifices to God, but God only accepted Abel's sacrifice and offering, and not Cain's because Abel gave the best of his flocks, indicating that God came first in his heart. Cain, on the other hand, gave a sacrifice from the fruit of his ground, which shows that he was more focused upon only making a sacrifice rather than pleasing the Lord.(Gen. ; see Al-Ma'ida ). Although God attempted to remonstrate with Cain about his attitude, Cain refused to listen and ultimately murdered his brother, Abel (see Al-Ma'ida ; Gen. ). Cain was subsequently called to account by God, who condemned him to a lifetime of wandering and fruitless toil, while promising to take vengeance upon any who tried to avenge his brother's blood upon him. Abel, on the other hand was regarded by the Bible as righteous.\n\nThe Quran relates a slightly different version; as in the Bible, both offered sacrifice and Cain's was rejected; Cain threatens Abel, who points out that killing him would put Cain \"among the companions of the fire\"; Cain murders Abel, but regrets it. The Quran then draws a lesson: \"Because of that, We decreed upon the Children of Israel that whoever kills a soul unless for a soul or for corruption [done] in the land - it is as if he had slain mankind entirely. And whoever saves one - it is as if he had saved mankind entirely'\n\nCompare the last part with the Talmud Yerushalmi (Mishnayot), Mishnah Sanhedrin Tractate 4:5, and Folia 23a, and in the Talmud Bavli Folia 37a.\n\nלפיכך נברא אדם יחידי ללמדך שכל המאבד נפש אחת [מישראל] מעלה עליו הכתוב כאילו איבד עולם מלא\" וכל'המקיים נפש אחת מישראל מעלה עליו הכתוב כאילו קיים עולם\"\n\n\"Therefore, humans were created singly, to teach you that whoever destroys a single soul [of Israel], Scripture accounts it as if he had destroyed a full world; and whoever saves one soul of Israel, Scripture accounts it as if she had saved a full world.\" ()\n\nSee Genesis and mainly Hud as well as Al-A'raf , Yunus , Al-Muminun , Ash-Shu'ara , Al-Qamar , and all of Nuh \n\nNoah is described in the Bible as a righteous man who lived among a \"wicked people\". God decided to kill all the people through a vast flood, while saving the righteous Noah and his immediate family; so he commanded Noah to build an Ark, using God's own instructions. (Gen. ; Hud ) Noah did so and he, his family, seven pairs of birds and \"clean\" (hoofed) animals, and two of each other animal species (a female and a male) board the Ark (Gen. ; Hud ). Water gushes up from the ground and rains fall from the sky, flooding the earth and killing all the wicked. (Gen. ; Al-Qamar ). All aboard the Ark are safe until the waters retreat (Gen. ; Hud ). There is disagreement among Jews, Christians and Muslims concerning whether the flood was local or global.\n\nThere are several differences between the biblical and Quranic versions of the story of Noah:\n\n\nSee Genesis , and Hud , Al-Hijr , As-Saaffat , and Adh-Dhariyat . Several messengers come to Abraham on their way to destroy the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham welcomes them into his tent and provides them with food. They then promise their host that Isaac (ʾIsḥāq إسحٰق) will soon be born to Abraham's wife, Sarah (Sārah سارة). Sarah laughs at the idea because she is far too old to bear children. The Hebrew name יצחק means 'he laughs\" and is one of the literary tropes in the biblical story. These literary connections are typically lost in Quranic versions of biblical stories.\n\nThe angels rebuke her, telling her that by God's will she can bear a son. A conversation ensues in which Abraham admits that he wished God to have mercy on the people of Sodom and Gomorrah.\n\nIn another narrative, Abraham receives a command (in his dream) from God to sacrifice his son. Abraham agrees to this and prepares to carry out the sacrifice. Before he can do so, however, God tells him to stop and gives him a replacement sacrifice. Abraham is subsequently honored for his faithfulness to God. (As-Saaffat ; Genesis )\n\nHowever, there are several differences between the biblical and Quranic accounts:\n\n\nThe Bible describes Abraham as in Iraq-Syria, then in Canaan, Paran and Egypt, with his final days in Canaan and Hebron. Both Isaac and Ishmael attend Abraham's funeral.\n\nThe Quran mentions that Abraham left his wife and Ishmael (as an infant) in the land where present-day Mecca is, while he left to what was apparently Palestine.\n\nAccording to the Bible, after visiting Abraham, two angels go to the city of Sodom in which Abraham's nephew Lot is a foreigner. They tell him God will soon destroy the city because of the wickedness of the people. The men of the city, upon hearing that Lot is entertaining male visitors, converge upon his house and demand that the men be brought out so that they can have sex with them. Lot offers his daughters in their place, but the men insist upon raping the angels instead. After blinding the city's inhabitants, the angels tell Lot and his family to flee by night and to not look back. The following morning, God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah with a shower of fiery stones from the sky. Lot's wife looked back to see the burning city and was turned into a pillar of salt.\n\nThe story continues further after the destruction of the twin cities, with Lot leaving Zoar (where he had fled for refuge) with his two daughters to live in a cave. Fearing that all the men were dead, the daughters decided that in order to 'preserve the seed of their father' and procreate, they must have sexual intercourse with him; they decide to get him into a drunken stupor so as to be able to 'lie with him' and obtain his seed. And so they each sleep with their father (one each on successive nights), having intoxicated him to a point wherein he could 'perceive not', and thus get impregnated by him. The Bible then continues \"And the firstborn bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day. And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day\". The biblical story of Lot ends here.\n\nAccording to the Quran, Lot (or Lut, as he is called in the Quran) was a Prophet. He was also a nephew of Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham). A group of Angels visited Ibrahim as guests and gave him glad tidings of a son \"endowed with wisdom\"; they told him that they had been sent by God to the \"guilty people\" of Sodom, to destroy them with \"a shower of stones of clay (brimstone)\" and deliver Lot and those who believed in him. However, Lot's wife was specifically excluded, with the angels saying \"she is of those who lag behind\". The Quran draws upon Lot's wife as an \"example for the unbelievers\", as she was married to a righteous man but refused to believe in his words; hence, she was condemned to the Hellfire; otherwise, the story of them leaving the city proceeds much as in the Bible. The story of Lot in the Quran ends after describing the destruction of the city.\n\nThere are several differences between the Quran and Bible:\n\n\nThe narratives of Joseph can be found in Genesis 37–45 and in the Quran 12.4–102.\n\nIn both the Bible and the Quran, Joseph has a vision of eleven stars and the sun and the moon all bowing to him which he shares with his family.\n\n(Genesis 37:9) And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brothers, and said, \"Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.\"\n\n(Yusuf|12.4) Behold! Joseph said to his father: \"O my father! I did see eleven stars and the sun and the moon: I saw them prostrate themselves to me!\"\n\nJoseph's brothers became jealous that their father preferred Joseph over them, and so they form a plot to kill Joseph. However, one brother convinces them not to kill him but throw him down a well while they are alone. The brothers come to the father asking his permission to take Joseph out with them to enjoy and play with them. Jacob expresses his reservations against letting him go with them and expressing fear about a wild animal killing him while they were not careful about him. The sons assure the father of their being a mighty group against any threats to Joseph. The father eventually agrees to send Yusuf with them (in the Quran), while in the Bible, Jacob sends Joseph out of his own accord without sons trying to persuade him to let him go with them. (Yusuf|12.8–10; Genesis 37:20–22) They agree. They subsequently lie to their father as to Joseph's whereabouts, covering his clothing in blood and asserting that a wild animal had attacked him. A caravan passing the well inspires the brothers to pull Joseph out of the well and to sell him as a slave to traders in the caravan. Later the traders sell him to a wealthy Egyptian. (Genesis 37:27–36; Yusuf|12.20–22)\n\nJoseph grows up in the house of the Egyptian. When Joseph is a grown man, his master's wife tries to seduce him. Joseph resists and runs away, but is caught by other servants and reported to his master. The wife lies to her husband, saying that Joseph tried to rape her. (Yusuf|12.25; Gen. 39:12); At this point the two stories differ.\n\nIn the Bible, Joseph's master (named as Potiphar) refuses to believe Joseph's denial and imprisons him.\nIn the Quran, Joseph's master (who is only identified as \"the Vizier\") accepts the suggestion of another wise person to check Joseph's tunic. If it is torn from the front, the wise person asserts, it will prove Joseph a liar; but if it is torn from the back (as proves to be the case), Joseph will be vindicated and the master's wife proven a liar and an adulteress. The Vizier reprimands his wife, and permits Joseph to remain in his household. However, during a subsequent dinner party thrown by the Vizier's wife to prove the reason of her lust for Joseph, Joseph is commanded to appear before the wife and her ladyfriends; they cut their hands with knives out of lust for him, and although the Vizier again recognizes Joseph's innocence, he orders him imprisoned nevertheless.\nIn prison, Joseph meets two men. One has a dream of making wine and the other dreams of carrying a stack of breads that birds are eating. Joseph tells the first that he will serve the Pharaoh again and the second will be executed. Both things happen, precisely as Joseph foretold. Although Joseph asks the first man to bring his name and unjust imprisonment to the attention of the Pharaoh, (referred to in the Quran as only the King, not a Pharaoh) the first man quickly forgets about him once restored to the royal favor.\n\nSometime thereafter, Pharaoh had a dream:\n\n(Genesis 41:17–24) \"17.Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, \"In my dream I was standing on the bank of the Nile, 18.when out of the river there came up seven cows, fat and sleek, and they grazed among the reeds. 19.After them, seven other cows came up – scrawny and very ugly and lean. I had never seen such ugly cows in all the Land of Egypt. 20. The lean, ugly cows ate up the seven fat cows that came up first. 21.But even after they ate them, no one could tell that they had done so; they looked just as ugly as before. Then I woke up.\" 22.\" In my dreams I also saw seven heads of grain, full and good, growing on a single stalk. 23.After them, seven other heads sprouted – withered and thin and scorched by the east wind. 24.The thin heads of grain swallowed up the seven good heads. I told this to the magicians, but none could explain it to me.\"\n\n(Quran: Yusuf|12.43) The king (of Egypt) said: \"I do see (in a vision) seven fat kine, whom seven lean ones devour, and seven green ears of corn, and seven (others) withered. O ye chiefs! Expound to me my vision if it be that ye can interpret visions.\"\n\nPharaoh's cup-bearer, who had been previously imprisoned with Joseph, suddenly remembers his promise and tells Pharaoh about the man who foretold his own restoration to favor. Pharaoh sent to the prison, asking Joseph to interpret his dream.\n\nIn the Quranic account, Joseph insists that the Vizier's wife vindicate him before the king before Joseph will agree to do so (this is not mentioned in the Bible); Pharaoh summons the Vizier's wife, who admits her lies about Joseph and proclaims his innocence. The Quran now rejoins the biblical narrative, where Joseph reveals the meaning of the king's dream: Egypt will have seven years of good crops followed by seven years of famine and the famine will be worse than the abundance. The king rewarded Joseph by giving him charge over the store houses and the entire land of Egypt.\n\nDuring the famine, Joseph's brothers came to Egypt to buy food, but the youngest was left with their father. While Joseph recognized them, they did not recognize him. He demanded that they return with the missing brother. The brothers return home and find that Joseph had hidden in their packs more than they paid for. They asked their father if they might return with the youngest brother. Reluctantly, their father allows this. They return, and after some further incidents Joseph ultimately reveals himself to his brothers. (Genesis 45:1; Yusuf| 12.90).\n\nIn both the Quran and the Bible, the missing brother is Benjamin, (Arabic: بن يامين) Joseph's only full blood brother. The others are half-brothers.\n\nThe Qur'an correctly does not refer to the king of Egypt during Joseph's time as the \"Pharaoh.\" The titular word \"Pharaoh\" was given to the kings of Egypt during the New Kingdom period later historically. This distinction is not found in the Bible.\n\nIn the Bible, the narratives of Moses are in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. The narratives here are mostly in Exodus 1–14 and 32. In the Quran, the Moses narratives are in the following passages: 2.49–61, 7.103–160, 10.75–93, 17.101–104, 20.9–97, 26.10–66, 27.7–14, 28.3–46, 40.23–30, 43.46–55, 44.17–31, and 79.15–25.\n\nPharaoh slew the young male children of the Israelites (II:46), and to avoid this fate, Moses' mother cast Moses as an infant into a small ark, where God protected him. Moses was found by the household of the Pharaoh, who adopted him. Moses' sister, Miriam, had followed Moses, and she recommended that his own mother serve as nurse to him. When Moses became an adult, he saw an Egyptian fighting with an Israelite, and he interceded and killed the Egyptian. The next day, the Israelite asked whether Moses intended to kill him as well. The Pharaoh tried to have Moses killed and Moses fled to a watering place in Midian. He met some sisters and watered their herd. When the women's father, Jethro, learned of Moses, he invited him to stay and gave him a daughter, Zipporah, to marry.\n\nIn Midian, Moses saw a fire and approached it. God spoke to him, and told him to remove his shoes. God said that he had chosen Moses. God said to throw down his staff and to stretch out his arm as signs. His staff turned into a serpent and then returned to the form of a staff. His arm became white although he was not sick. God commanded him to go to Pharaoh to deliver a message. Moses said that he could not speak well. So God provided Aaron, his brother, to help Moses speak.\n\nGod sent Moses to the court of Pharaoh. Pharaoh refused to listen to Moses. Moses threw down his staff and it became a serpent. Pharaoh's magicians also threw down their staffs which turned into snakes. But the snakes of Pharaoh's magicians were swallowed by Moses' serpent. God caused a famine. God sent plagues of locusts, frogs, blood, and destruction. God sent at least nine signs to Pharaoh but Pharaoh disregarded the first few signs and when he couldn't disregard them any longer, he agreed to let the Israelites go but after God allowed tranquility, Pharaoh still stubbornly refused to let the Israelites go so God made every first-born Egyptian son die and spared every Israelite (the first Passover). Pharaoh became hysterical and demanded that Moses and the Israelites leave at once only to pursue them with his army after their exit. Then God helped Moses lead the Israelites into a desert and across a sea. Moses struck the sea with his staff and the sea split in half exposing dry land (while creating a wall of water on each side) for the Israelites to walk through. Pharaoh and his army were catching up to the Israelites but the water returned to its original state. Pharaoh and his army drowned. (Exodus 14:7, II:47)\n\nMoses left the Hebrews for forty nights. He put his brother Aaron in charge of the people (Al-Baqara|2.48) On a mountain, God gave Moses a revelation of precepts for Israel to follow. God made tablets with writing on them which Moses carried back to Israel.\n\nMoses asked to see God. The people saw the fire and lightning and the mountain and were afraid. While Moses was gone, the Israelites demanded to worship an idol. They used the gold from their ornaments to construct a golden calf whom they said was the god who rescued them from Egypt. Aaron does not stop them. Then Moses returned and chastised them and Aaron. Many were killed for their action. God sent down manna and quail to eat but the Hebrews still rebelled against God, and complained about the food. Moses asked God for water and God answered him. Moses struck a stone with his staff and water came forth. The Israelites were divided into twelve tribes.\n\nGod gave the Israelites a bountiful land, but this occurred at different times in the two scriptures. Besides that and the many additional details in the Torah, there are other differences:\n\n\nSee also Aaron, Islamic view of Aaron, and Islamic view of Pharaoh.\n\nThe story of the destruction of Korah appears in Numbers 16:1–50 in the Torah and in Al-Qasas 76–82 in the Quran. Korah was an Israelite living during the time of Moses. Because of his wickedness, God caused him to die by opening the ground and swallowing him and his home (Numbers 16:31–33; Al-Qasas|28.81). In the Quran, Karon is simply a rich man who is too arrogant. In the Torah, he leads a minor rebellion against Moses. God also kills the others who rebel with him and destroys their homes.\n\nIn the Quran and the Bible there are stories about smaller armies winning victory over larger ones. One story in the Quran and Bible share strong resemblances, although they are placed in different times and attributed to different characters. The Bible story features Gideon from the Book of Judges and the Quran story features Talut (usually translated as Saul).\n\nIn the Book of Judges 6-8 of the Bible, Gideon receives commands from God to take the Israelites to war against the Midianites. Gideon is reluctant, but accedes after making God prove Himself with three different tests. As they are heading to fight, God tells Gideon to send away those who are homesick or afraid of dying. Because the army is still large enough to credit its own strength for victory, God tells Gideon to observe the drinking habits of his troops at the river. God says to send those who do not drink with their hands, but lap the water directly like a dog, back to their homes. The remaining Israelites go on to victory.\n\nIn 2:246-248 of the Quran, God chooses Talut (generally considered to be Saul) to lead the Israelites into battle against the army of Goliath. On their way, God tells Talut to warn the men that they will be tested by God, and that they must not drink from the next river in order to pass the test. Despite this warning, most of the men disobey and drink from the river. God tells Talut to leave the disobedient members behind, unless they only drank one handful, so that the army will consist of only faithful members. The army then goes on to defeat General Goliath's army.\n\nThe story appears in 1 Samuel 8–12 and 17:1–58. The Prophet Samuel is petitioned by the Israelites for a king. God sends Samuel to appoint Saul as king, although with the warning that kings only take from their people. At least a few people are not happy with Samuel's choice, but Saul then prophecises and wins some victories, so the people embrace him. Later Saul falls out of God's favor and God promises to appoint someone else as king. The Philistines attack and are bolstered by the fear engendered by their champion Goliath, a giant. God sends Samuel to recruit David, who kills Goliath. David eventually goes on to become Israel's new king.\n\nA similar story appears in the Qu'ran 2:246–251. The Israelites demand their of prophet to appoint a king, and so God appoints the man Talut. The people respond poorly to the selection, upset that Talut does not seem special. God gives the Ark of the Covenant back to the Israelites in order to verify His choice (this is an event that predates Saul in the Bible). Talut leads the men to battle against an army led by the General Goliath. The Israelite army is small and doubtful, but a few men trust that God can still give them victory. David then kills Goliath and becomes king of Israel. The account also bears similarity to when Gideon led an army. See the above Gideon/Talut subsection.\n\nThe story appears in 1 Kings 10:1–13 and 2 Chronicles 9: 1–13 and in verses Surah 27 20–44. The two stories have almost nothing in common. In each, the Queen of Sheba comes to visit Solomon and is impressed by his wisdom and riches. In the Bible, the visit is only diplomatic. In the Quran, the Queen becomes monotheist and peace is established in the kingdoms. Although not part of the Quran, Islamic tradition holds that the name of the Queen of Sheba is Bilqis or Balqis.\n\nIn both the Bible and the Quran, Jonah is swallowed by a \"big fish\", usually inferred to be a whale. The Book of Jonah in the Bible consists of four chapters about Jonah's mission to Nineveh. Jonah is referenced three times in the Quran: in verses 139–148 of Sura 37 (As-Saaffat) (Those who set the ranks), verses 87–88 of Sura 21: al-Anbiya' (The Prophets) and verses 48–50 of Sura 68: al-Qalam (The Pen)/Nun. It is mentioned in verse 98 of Sura 10: Yunus (Jonah) and verse 86 of Sura 6: al-An'am (The Cattle).\n\nIn the Quran, Jonah gets frustrated by his own people and abandons them to God's mercy, however without asking permission from God and thus going against his given responsibility. In the Quran, it is also mentioned that if Jonah had not prayed inside the belly of the fish he would have stayed in there until the Judgement day. In the Bible, Jonah pays a fare to sail to Tarshish. In both stories, he boards the ship loaded with passengers, lots are cast and Jonah is thrown overboard and swallowed by a large fish (Jonah 1:17, As-Saaffat 37|142). After praying, he is cast out of the fish and washed ashore, and God causes a gourd to grow (37|146) or weeds (2:5). In the Bible, Jonah continues into Nineveh, and the city is spared by God. In the Quran, God causes the gourd to grow to comfort Jonah after he lies on the shore in a sickly state (As-Saaffat 37|145), in the Bible the gourd plant grows up to provide shade for Jonah while he waits for Nineveh to be destroyed (4:6). According to an Islamic tradition however, the big fish gets frightened at first, fearing it might have swallowed a holy person as it heard prayers and supplications read in a wonderful voice from her stomach, hearing which numerous sea creatures had surrounded it. But she comforts herself later since it was God's order to swallow Jonah. After two days the fish casts him out the beach of an island and he is very weak. The gastric juices with the hot sunlight burned his skin till the point he was about to scream of pain. God causes a vine to grow over him and provide him fruit and shade. He recovers and goes back to his people who had become good after he left. According to the Bible, Ninevah was a great city, with more than one hundred twenty thousand people and much livestock (Jonah 4:11). In the Quran, the number of the people he was sent towards as a prophet exceeded a hundred thousand. They believed in his message and God granted them prosperity for a long time. (As-Saaffat 37|147–148). In the New Testament, Jesus refers to the Ninevites repenting at the preaching of Jonah (Matthew 12:41, Luke 11:32).\n\nIn the Bible, Haman was an Agagite noble and vizier of the empire under Persian King Ahasuerus who desires to persecute the Jews. In the Quran, Haman is an adviser and builder under a Firaun (Pharaoh) of ancient Egypt whose narrative relationship with Moses is recounted in the Quran.\n\nThe structure which Firaun commands Haman to build is similar to the Tower of Babel in Genesis, unrelated to the narrative of Haman in the Bible. Both structures are made from burnt bricks for the purpose of ascending to the heavens.\n\nHowever, it's also been suggested that these two are different individuals. The name \"Haman\" was in fact mentioned in old Egyptian tablets which now stand in the Hof Museum, Vienna (Walter Wreszinski, Ägyptische Inschriften aus dem K.K. Hof Museum in Wien, 1906, J. C. Hinrichs' sche Buchhandlung).\n\nThe story of Zechariah is told in the Gospel of Luke 1:5–80 and Luke 3:1–22 and in the Quran 19.2–15. Zechariah and his wife reached an old age without bearing children. God spoke to Zechariah and told him his wife would conceive, despite her barrenness, and his name would be John. As a sign that this would happen, God struck Zechariah mute until John was born though he communicated using signs. John became a great and righteous prophet and came to confirm God's Word. Both accounts mention John's death.\n\nThe two accounts never directly disagree, but each has unique elements: In the Bible Zechariah is a priest. God speaks to him on Yom Kippur in the Holy of Holies. He doubts that God will act and his muteness is a sign and punishment. In the Quran, God promises him a child and he questions how would it come about since he is an old man and his wife long barren. Upon which he is told that for God it is indeed very easy and \"that hasn't God\" created you already while you were naught. In the Quranic narrative Zechariah is also reminded that the sign he should seek for would be a muteness for three nights although without being restrained from speech, implying, he simply would not find an occasion to talk to anyone. Zechariah, therefore, is found emerging from his chamber and reminding his people to celebrate the praises of the Lord through an inspirational gesture (Surah Maryam 19|1–11). In the Bible Zechariah confirms that the son's name is John and receives his speech back.\n\nMary's life is told in several books of the New Testament and Quran 19.16–35. In the Bible, in the sixth month after the conception of John the Baptist by Elizabeth, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to the Virgin Mary, at Nazareth. Mary was of the house of David, and was betrothed to Joseph, of the same royal family. And the angel having taken the figure and the form of man, came into the house and said to her: 'Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with thee.' Mary having heard the greeting words did not speak; she was troubled in spirit, since she knew not the angel, nor the cause of his coming, nor the meaning of the salutation. And the angel continued and said: 'Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found grace with God. Behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and shalt bring forth a son; and thou shalt call his name Jesus. (In Matthew 1:21–22 a meaning for the name is given \"for he shall save his people from their sins. In Hebrew ישוע sounds like the Hebrew word for salvation \"ישועה\"). He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of David his father; and he shall reign in the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end.' Not doubting the word of God, unlike Zachariah, but filled with fear and astonishment, she said: \"How shall this be done, because I have not known a man?'\nThe angel, to remove Mary's anxiety and to assure her that her virginity would be spared, answered: 'The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee and the power of the Most High shall overshadow thee. And therefore also the Holy which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.' In token of the truth of his word he made known to her the conception of John, the miraculous pregnancy of her relative now old and sterile: 'And behold, thy cousin Elizabeth; she also has conceived a son in her old age, and this is the sixth month with her that is called barren: because no word shall be impossible with God.' Mary may not yet have fully understood the meaning of the heavenly message and how the maternity might be reconciled with her vow of virginity, but clinging to the first words of the angel and trusting to the omnipotence of God she said: 'Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it done to me according to thy word.'\n\nIn Luke, Mary is betrothed to Joseph but the Quran never mentions any man. In the Quran, 'her people' have a conversation with Mary accusing her of fornication. In the Bible, no such conversation happens but Joseph knows that people are thinking this.\n\nThe Quran states in the chapter named after Mary, verse 16–37:\nIn the Book, tell the story of Maryam, when she went away from her family (for Prayer) to a place in the East.\nShe placed a screen (to hide herself) from them; Then We sent to her Our angel, and he appeared before her in the form of a man of respect in every way.\nShe said: \"Verily, I ask shelter from you with the Most Gracious (Allah):(Do not come near me) if you guard yourself against evil.\"\nHe said: \"I am a messenger from your Lord, only to announce to you, the gift of a righteous son.\"\nShe said: \"How shall I have a son, when no man has touched me, and I am not indecent?\"\nHe said: \"It will be so: Your Lord says 'That is easy for Me: And (We wish) to appoint him as a Sign to men and a Mercy from Us': It is a thing (already) ordained.\"\nSo she started to carry him (Jesus), and she went (to rest) with him to a far place.\nAnd the pains of childbirth took her to the trunk of a palm tree: She cried \"Oh! If I had died before this! If I was a thing forgotten and not seen!\"\nThen (a voice) cried to her from under the tree: \"Do not feel sad! Because your Lord has made a stream underneath you; And shake towards yourself the trunk of the palm tree: It will drop fresh ripe dates upon you. So eat and drink and cool (wet your) eye. And if you see any man, say, 'I have promised solemnly to the Most Gracious, and this day I will not enter into talk with any human being.'\"\nAt the end she brought the baby to her people, carrying baby Jesus in her arms. They said \"O Maryam! Truly an amazing thing have you brought! O sister of Aaron! Your father was not an adulterous man, and your mother was not an immoral woman!\"\nThen, she pointed to the baby. They said, \"How can we talk to one who is only a child in the cradle?\"\nHe (Baby Jesus) said, \"Indeed I am a servant of Allah: He has given me the Injeel (Gospel) and made me a prophet; and he has made me blessed where ever I be, and has commanded for me prayer and charity as long as I live; Allah has made me kind to my mother, and not arrogant or miserable;And Peace is on me the day I was born, the day I die, and the day I will be raised up alive!\"\nJesus, the son of Maryam was like this: It is a statement of truth, about which they dispute (uselessly).\nIt is not suited for Almighty Allah that He should father a son. Glory to Him! When He determines anything, He only says to it, \"Be\", and it is.\nJesus said: \"And surely Allah is my Lord and your Lord: Him alone you therefore worship: That is the Straight Path.\"\nThen, the groups differed among themselves: so this is a warning to the disbelievers because of the Judgement on a great Day! \n\nJesus's ministry takes up the whole of the four Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke and John) in the Bible, as well as being the focus of the subsequent books of the New Testament. Some stories common to all four Gospels include that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist, subsequently traveled as an itinerant preacher and healer, took on twelve apostles, miraculously fed 5000 people at least once, entered Jerusalem on a donkey, drove merchants from the Second Temple, predicted his betrayal by one of his disciples, was crucified, but resurrected from death. It must be noted that each gospel represents a different perspective, with some different information and emphases than each of the other gospels. Christians accept all four books as part of the canon of Scripture.\n\nJesus directly appears several times in the Quran: al-Imran 35–59; an Nisa' 156–158; al-Ma'idah 109–120; Maryam 16–35, al-Mu'minun 50; az-Zukhruf 57–65; as-Saff 6 and 14. He is also indirectly referred to in other locations.\n\nThe Quran contains few narratives from Jesus' life, but does include many brief descriptions in common with the Bible:\n\n\nThe details of Jesus's birth differ from those offered in the gospels of Matthew and Luke (see above section). Other accounts in the Quran do not exist in the Bible. Two such stories, one in which infant Jesus verbally testifies to Mary's virginity and another in which young Jesus forms and breathes life into clay birds, have counterparts in non-canonical Christian literature (see Infancy Gospels).\nThe Quran rejects that Jesus ever expected to be interpreted as divine and that he only taught strict tawhid. Somewhat surprisingly, it also denies the crucifixion (see Islamic view of Jesus' death).\n\nThe Quran and Bible have over 50 people in common, typically in the same narratives. The Quran identifies Enoch and Ishmael as prophets, but they are never given a story. In the Bible, all these men are identified as righteous people but not prophets — except Ishmael who is not written of favorably.\n\nThere is also one person mentioned in the Quran, Dhul-Qarnayn, who is not mentioned in the Bible by that name but whose story is similar to stories about Cyrus the Great as mentioned in other Jewish and Christian writings (see Cyrus the Great in the Quran .)\n\nIn several cases, the Quran and the Bible have common events but occur in different narrations.\n\nIn the Bible, in Moses' absence certain people who went out of Egypt with the Hebrews worship a golden calf saying \"This is your God, O Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.\" Hundreds of years later, Samaria was founded and became the capital of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. King Jeroboam, its first king, also made two golden calves and said, \"These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of Egypt.\"\n\nThe Quran tells the story of a calf while Moses is gone. A man called \"the Samari\" Yusuf Ali or \"the Samaritan\" (Arberry) is blamed for protagonizing their idolatry.\n\nA verse in Hosea 8:5–6 contains the same content as Ta-Ha|20.97 where Hosea refers to the Jeroboam calf and the Quran refers to the earlier calf. Both feature a prophet speaking to the Samaritan/Samaria promising to destroy the calf.\n\nIn the Quran, Moses' punishment that the Samari cannot be touched is the same as the modern Samaritan's punishment where no Jew was allowed to touch them because of their idolatry. In his commentary, Yusuf Ali claims that the Samari is not a Samaritan.\n\nIn Arabic, both the names \"Mary\" and \"Miriam\" are called \"Maryam\". Mary, mother of Jesus, is the only female to have her name mentioned in the Quran. While speaking about Mary, the mother of Jesus, the Quran also calls her as the sister of Aaron. There is an Aaron in the Bible, namely Aaron the brother of Moses, who also had a sister Miriam. According to Muslim interpreters, this Aaron is different from the brother of Moses. Moses and Jesus were separated far apart in time, but it was a tradition to give people the names of prophets and pious persons who lived before them as mentioned in the following hadeeth:\n\nIn the Books of Samuel, Hannah is grateful that God gave her a son, Samuel. She dedicated him to God by letting him live with Eli the prophet and priest.\n\nIn the Quran, Mary's mother is grateful to God for Mary and dedicates her to God. Mary then lives in the household of Zechariah the prophet.\n\nIn the Bible, Zechariah is also a priest. Mary's mother is unnamed in the Quran.\n"}
{"id": "55008600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55008600", "title": "Birds' Head Haggadah", "text": "Birds' Head Haggadah\n\nThe Birds' Head Haggadah (c. 1300) is the oldest surviving illuminated Ashkenazi Passover Haggadah. The manuscript, produced in the Upper Rhine region of Southern Germany in the early 14th century, contains the full Hebrew text of the Haggadah, a ritual text recounting the story of Passover – the liberation of the Israelites from slavery in ancient Egypt – which is recited by participants at a Passover Seder. The text is executed in block calligraphy and accompanied by colorful illustrations of Jews performing the Seder practices and reenacting Jewish historical events. The Birds' Head Haggadah is so called because all Jewish men, women, and children depicted in the manuscript have human bodies with the faces and beaks of birds. Non-Jewish and non-human faces (such as those of angels, the sun, and the moon) are blank or blurred. Numerous theories have been advanced to explain the unusual iconography, usually tied to Jewish aniconism. The Haggadah is in the possession of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, where it is on permanent exhibition.\n\nA Haggadah is a ritual Jewish text containing prayers, hymns, Midrashic statements, and commentary on the story of Passover – the liberation of the Israelites from slavery in ancient Egypt. This text is recited by participants at a Passover Seder. Illuminated manuscripts of the Haggadah began appearing in the 13th century, and printed Haggadahs began to be published in the 15th century.\n\nThe Birds' Head Haggadah is an illuminated manuscript dated to the beginning of the 14th century. The style and coloring of the figures reflects that of other illuminated manuscripts from the Upper Rhine region of Southern Germany in that era, perhaps from the vicinity of Würzburg, and the architectural backgrounds are sufficiently detailed to date and locate the manuscript. The Birds' Head Haggadah is believed to be the first illustrated Haggadah produced in its own binding, distinct from the Jewish prayer book. \n\nThe manuscript measures long by wide. It is believed to have originally contained about 50 pages, gathered into five bindings of eight pages each and one binding of 10 pages. In its current condition, it contains 47 pages.\n\nThe text was copied by a scribe named Menahem; the letters of his Hebrew name, מנחם, are graphically accentuated in the similarly-spelled Hebrew word מֻנָּחִים (\"Munahim\") in the Haggadah text, revealing his signature. The scribe Menahem is also credited with copying the Leipzig Machzor (High Holy Days prayerbook) around the same time; he encoded his name in that illuminated manuscript in a \"decorated text panel\".\n\nEach page of the Birds' Head Haggadah contains 12 rows of text, copied in block calligraphy. The calligraphy and illustrations were executed in dark brown ink and tempera on parchment.\n\nThe extant manuscript shows smaller, densely packed script written in the margins of some pages, detailing instructions for conducting the Seder and fulfilling the laws pertaining to Passover. \"Captions\" have also been appended to certain illustrations. According to Epstein, these glosses and captions were added by unknown owners of the Haggadah over the centuries.\n\nThe manuscript contains two full-page miniatures. The first, placed at the beginning, depicts a husband and wife seated at their Seder table. The second, appearing at the end of the Haggadah, depicts a vision of a rebuilt Jerusalem in the messianic era. \n\nIn addition to the full-page miniatures, 33 pages in the manuscript have illustrations in the margins. These illustrations, which closely follow the text, depict Jewish men and women performing Passover and Seder practices, and also reenacting events in Jewish history. The Passover and Seder-themed reenactments include the roasting of the Paschal lamb; the baking of matzos; grinding the bitter herbs; eating the bitter herbs with charoset; leaning on one's left side at the Seder; breaking the middle matzo, and so on. Historical depictions include the Binding of Isaac; the Jewish people hurriedly leaving Egypt with their matzos, which did not have time to rise; Pharaoh and his army pursuing the Jewish nation to the Red Sea; Moses receiving the two Tablets of Stone from heaven and giving over the Pentateuch to the Jewish people; and the Jews receiving manna from heaven during their wanderings in the desert.\n\nThe Jewish characters are dressed in medieval German-Jewish clothing, and the pointed \"Jewish hat\" mandated by the Church beginning in the 13th century is seen on Jewish leaders and teachers, including Moses. Yet while the Jewish characters all have human bodies, and some also have human hair and beards, and wear helmets or women's snoods, their faces are those of \"sharp-beaked and sharp-eyed birds\". A large beak occupies the place where the nose and mouth should be. Epstein notes that the birds' heads are not uniform, but individualized according to the \"age, sex, and status\" of the character. Some characters have pigs' ears as well.\n\nThe faces of non-Jewish characters, in contrast – such as Pharaoh and the ancient Egyptians – and non-human characters such as angels, the sun, and the moon, are blank or blurred. An unknown artist subsequently added facial features to the Egyptian soldiers, but these additions either faded or were rubbed out.\n\nNumerous theories have been advanced to explain the choice of facial features in the Haggadah's illustrations. A prevalent theory for the use of bird rather than human faces is the illustrator's attempt to circumvent the Second Commandment prohibition against making a graven image, in the tradition of Jewish aniconism. Other Ashkenazi Hebrew illuminated manuscripts from the 13th and 14th centuries depict humans with animal heads in keeping with this prohibition. Notably, the Leipzig Machzor, copied by the same scribe who copied the Birds' Head Haggadah, features human-looking faces with noses resembling curved beaks.\n\nEpstein theorizes that the choice of birds' heads for the Jewish figures in the Birds' Head Haggadah hints at the spiritual and national characteristics of the Jewish people. He argues that the beaked visages in the manuscript are not birds' heads at all, but the heads of griffins. The legendary griffin – the body of which resembles both a lion and an eagle – reflects the prevalent use of \"lion-eagle-human hybrids\" in Jewish iconography. Moreover, the lion-eagle-human hybrid incorporates three of the four creatures represented in Ezekiel's vision of the divine chariot (), suggesting a connection between the Jewish people and God. The lion may also allude to the symbol of the tribe of Judah while the eagle evokes the symbol of the German emperor, suggesting the Jews' identification as both subjects of the realm and as Jews. Epstein further theorizes that the blank faces assigned to non-Jewish and non-human figures sends a message to Jewish readers of the Haggadah that these entities have no intrinsic power, but are subject to God's will.\n\nArt historian Meyer Schapiro, who wrote an introduction to the first facsimile edition of the Haggadah published by M. Spitzer in 1965, maintains that the birds' heads are those of eagles, noting a very similar head on \"an unmistakable eagle\" in the contemporary Christian Codex Manesse. The Imperial Eagle was the heraldic symbol of the Holy Roman Emperor, under whose protection Jews in Germany lived, which the depiction as eagles may symbolize. In addition, a number of biblical passages can be taken as identifying the Jews with eagles, including , especially relevant to the Passover, and \n\nCarol Zemel postulates that the birds' heads affixed to Jewish men and women going about their Passover preparations are a tongue-in-cheek allusion to the animal-head gods worshipped by the ancient Egyptians. This connection elevates the spiritual importance of the Jews' work.\n\nRuth Malinkoff, in her 1999 book \"Antisemitic Hate Signs in Hebrew: Illuminated Manuscripts from Medieval Germany\", asserts that the appendage of pigs' ears to some Jewish characters clues the reader to the fact that these are antisemitic caricatures instigated by Christian artists. Jewish artists, who were more familiar with the Hebrew text, did the design and copying, and the manuscript was commissioned by Jews as well, but Christian antisemitism heavily influenced the illustrations. This expressed itself in the \"stereotypical long noses\" and \"large eyes\", the pigs' ears, and the conical hat worn by many Jewish figures. The fact that the birds' heads themselves are those of birds of prey – which are ritually impure according to Jewish law – also point to the antisemitic undertones of the manuscript, according to Malinkoff.\n\nHowever, Meyer Schapiro believes the artists were Jewish, trained in the contemporary Gothic idiom, and confident in their style, but \"not in the forefront\" of contemporary artists; the manuscript \"now so exceptional, was in its day a piece of local everyday art\". Epstein also challenges Malinkoff's assertion that an antisemitic manuscript would be accepted by its Jewish patrons. He notes:\nInstead, it makes more sense to assume that the griffins' heads were the specific choice of the patrons. Far from being anti-Jewish caricatures, the griffin-headed figures in the Birds' Head Haggadah are dignified portrayals of Jews, full of character and personality. All are going seriously about their business or are posed with stateliness and monumentality in spite of the singular strangeness of their heads.\n\nThe original patron of the Haggadah is unknown. In the 20th century, the manuscript was owned by the family of Johanna Benedikt, who gave it as a wedding present to Benedikt's new husband, German Jewish lawyer and parliamentarian Ludwig Marum. Marum reportedly stored the manuscript in his law office. Following his arrest and deportation by the Nazis in 1933, the manuscript disappeared. It resurfaced in 1946 in Jerusalem when Herbert Kahn, a German Jewish refugee, sold it to the Bezalel National Museum, the predecessor of the Israel Museum, for $600. The museum keeps the manuscript on permanent exhibition.\n\nShimon Jeselsohn, a law colleague of Marum in Germany who immigrated to Israel after the war, read about the museum's acquisition of the manuscript and connected it with the work that he had seen in Marum's possession. He wrote to Marum's daughter, Elisabeth, who was then living in New York, to tell her of the Haggadah's whereabouts. In 1984 Elisabeth made a trip to Israel and saw the manuscript in the museum; afterwards she wrote a letter to the museum saying that Kahn \"had no right to sell\" their family's Haggadah, but that the family would allow the museum to keep the Haggadah on exhibit \"for the benefit of the public\". According to her daughter, Elisabeth thought there was no way she could retrieve the manuscript, so she did not try to. \n\nIn 2016 Marum's grandchildren, led by Marum's 75-year-old grandson Eli Barzilai, began demanding compensation, claiming the Haggadah had been sold without the family's permission. Barzilai engaged the services of E. Randol Schoenberg, a U.S. attorney specializing in the recovery of Nazi-looted artwork. According to \"Artnet\", the compensation demand was \"less than\" USD$10 million. In addition to financial reimbursement, the family asked for the manuscript to be renamed the \"Marum Haggadah\". \n\nThe Israel Museum has acknowledged the family's ownership claim predating World War II. It has requested documentation of ownership between 1933 and 1946, at which point it purchased the Haggadah from Kahn. In late 2016 the Marum family obtained more than 1,000 documents from German historians in Karlsruhe, which depict Kahn as a low-paid schoolteacher in constant need of cash. The family asserted that Kahn somehow obtained the Haggadah without their permission, but that they do not think he stole it.\n\nIn 1965/1967 a two-volume color facsimile edition of the Birds' Head Haggadah was published in Israel by M. Spitzer, bringing the manuscript to international attention. \n\nIn 1997 Koren Publishers, in conjunction with the Israel Museum, published \"The Haggada of Passover: With Pop-Up Spreads\", incorporating illustrations from the Birds' Head Haggadah. Designed for children, the book is printed on heavy cardstock and incorporates pop-ups and pull-tabs for users to manipulate the illustrations of the bird-headed characters reenacting historical and Seder practices. The illustrations include the reenactments of the Ten Plagues, baking matzo, crossing the Red Sea, drinking the Four Cups at the Passover Seder, and more. The Haggadah's Hebrew text is supplemented by Koren's English translation. The pop-up book was reprinted in 2008, and again in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9637386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9637386", "title": "Bo Yikao", "text": "Bo Yikao\n\nBo Yikao was the oldest son of King Wen of Zhou and the elder brother of King Wu, the founder of the Zhou dynasty of ancient China.\n\nAs a member of the Zhou royal house, his family name was Ji. \"Bo\" refers to his status as the oldest son of his father. \"Yikao\" may have been his personal name or a posthumous name used for ritual purposes.\n\nIt is known that he did not inherit his father's realm along the Wei River. Based on later Chinese inheritance laws and legends, it is typically thought that he predeceased his father. Stories such as the \"Fengshen Yanyi\" lay the guilt upon King Zhou, the last king of the Shang dynasty, and the traditional account of his death was taken by later Chinese jurists as the first instance of \"lingchi\" (the \"death by a thousand cuts\"). However, passages in the \"Book of Rites\" and the \"Masters of Huainan\" assume that King Wu's inheritance simply represented an aberration or even an older tradition among the Zhou of passing over the eldest son. (In traditional accounts, Bo Yikao's granduncle Taibo of Wu had likewise been passed over in favor of a younger son.)\n\nIn the \"Fengshen Yanyi\", Bo Yikao is the oldest and most outstanding son of Ji Chang, the \"Duke of the West\" of the Shang dynasty. He is well versed in music and the arts, handsome, and filial. The book recounts the story of Chang's imprisonment at Youli and (ahistorically) credits Yikao with bringing the bribes to free him. At his audience, King Zhou's concubine Daji finds Yikao attractive and has the king employ him to teach her how to play the zither. During a lesson, Daji attempts to seduce the boy but he rejects and ridicules her. Daji's infatuation turns to hatred: she complains to the king that Yikao molested her and insulted the king in his music. King Zhou is furious and he orders Yikao to be executed, minced into pieces, and made into meat cakes. The king then sends the cakes to Ji Chang. Ji Chang's mastery of divination means he has already foreseen his son's fate but, in order not to arouse the king's suspicion, he consumes the cakes. Thinking his divination incompetent, the king then allows the duke to leave. On the way home, Ji Chang vomits out the meat and the cakes transform into three white rabbits, which are later brought under the care of the moon goddess Chang'e.\n"}
{"id": "464324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464324", "title": "Bonfire of the vanities", "text": "Bonfire of the vanities\n\nA bonfire of the vanities () is a burning of objects condemned by authorities as occasions of sin. The phrase usually refers to the bonfire of 7 February 1497, when supporters of the Dominican friar Girolamo Savonarola collected and publicly burned thousands of objects such as cosmetics, art, and books in Florence, Italy, on the Shrove Tuesday festival. For a first-hand account of the bonfire of the vanities that occurred in Florence, Italy in 1497, see Francesco Guicciardini's \"The History of Florence.\" \n\nThe focus of this destruction was nominally on objects that might tempt one to sin, including vanity items such as mirrors, cosmetics, fine dresses, playing cards, and even musical instruments. Other targets included books that were deemed to be immoral, such as works by Boccaccio, and manuscripts of secular songs, as well as artworks, including paintings and sculpture.\n\nAlthough often associated with Savonarola, such bonfires had been a common accompaniment to the outdoor sermons of San Bernardino di Siena in the first half of the 15th century.\n\nFra Girolamo Savonarola was a Dominican friar who was assigned to work in Florence in 1490, largely thanks to the request of Lorenzo de' Medici – an irony, considering that within a few years Savonarola became one of the foremost enemies of the Medici house and helped to bring about their downfall in 1494. Savonarola campaigned against what he considered to be the artistic and social excesses of Renaissance Italy, preaching with great vigor against any sort of luxury. His power and influence grew so that with time he became the effective ruler of Florence, and even had soldiers for his protection following him around everywhere.\n\nStarting in February 1495, during the time in which the festival known as Carnival occurred, Savonarola began to host his regular “bonfire of the vanities.” He collected various objects that he considered to be objectionable: irreplaceable manuscripts, ancient sculptures, antique and modern paintings, priceless tapestries, and many other valuable works of art, as well as mirrors, musical instruments, books of divination, astrology, and magic. He destroyed the works of Ovid, Propertius, Dante, and Boccaccio. So great was his influence that he even managed to obtain the cooperation of major contemporary artists such as Sandro Botticelli and Lorenzo di Credi, who reluctantly consigned some of their own works to his bonfires. Anyone who tried to object found their hands being forced by teams of ardent Savonarola supporters. These supporters called themselves Piagnoni (Weepers) after a public nickname that was originally intended as an insult.\n\nSavonarola’s influence did not go unnoticed by the higher church officials, however, and his excesses earned him the disdain of Pope Alexander VI. He was eventually excommunicated on May 13, 1497. His charge was heresy and sedition at the command of Pope Alexander VI. Savonarola was executed on May 23, 1498, hung on a cross and burned to death. His death occurred in the Piazza della Signoria, where he had previously held his bonfires of the vanities. The papal authorities took a leaf out of Savonarola's book on censorship, because the day after his execution they gave word that anyone in possession of the Friar's writings had four days to turn them over to a papal agent to be destroyed. Anyone who failed to do so faced excommunication.\n\nAlthough it is widely reported that the Florentian artist Sandro Botticelli burned several of his paintings based on classical mythology in the great Florentine bonfire of 1497, the historical record on this is not clear. According to the art historian Giorgio Vasari, Botticelli was a partisan of Savonarola: \"He was so ardent a partisan that he was thereby induced to desert his painting, and, having no income to live on, fell into very great distress.\" Writing several centuries later, Orestes Brownson, an apologist for Savonarola, mentions artwork only by Fra Bartolomeo, Lorenzo di Credi, and \"many other painters,\" along with \"several antique statues.\" Art historian Rab Hatfield argues that one of Botticelli's paintings, \"The Mystical Nativity\", is based on the sermon Savonarola delivered on Christmas Eve, 1493.\n\nThe event has been represented or mentioned in varying degrees of detail in a number of works of historical fiction, including George Eliot's \"Romola\" (1863), E. R. Eddison's \"A Fish Dinner in Memison\" (1941), Irving Stone's \"The Agony and the Ecstasy\" (1961), Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's \"The Palace\" (1978), Michael Ondaatje's \"The English Patient – part two\" 1992, Roger Zelazny and Robert Sheckley's \"If at Faust You Don't Succeed\" (1993), Timothy Findley's \"Pilgrim\" (1999), Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason's \"Rule of Four\" (2004), the novel \"I, Mona Lisa\" by Jeanne Kalogridis (2006), the Showtime series \"The Borgias\", The Sky (Italy) and Netflix (North America) series \"Borgia\", and \"The Botticelli Affair\" by Traci L. Slatton (2013). Other references in popular culture include these:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3250111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3250111", "title": "Buddhism in Mongolia", "text": "Buddhism in Mongolia\n\nBuddhism in Mongolia derives much of its recent characteristics from Tibetan Buddhism of the Gelug and Kagyu lineages, but is distinct and presents its own unique characteristics.\n\nBuddhism in Mongolia began with the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368) emperors' conversion to Tibetan Buddhism. The Mongols returned to shamanic traditions after the collapse of the Mongol Empire, but Buddhism reemerged in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nBuddhism in Mongolia derives many of its recent characteristics from Tibetan Buddhism of the Gelug and Kagyu lineages, but is distinct and presents its own unique characteristics. Traditionally, the Mongolian ethnic religions involved worship of Heaven (the \"eternal blue sky\") and ancestors and the ancient North Asian practices of shamanism, in which human intermediaries went into trance and spoke to and for some of the numberless infinities of spirits responsible for human luck or misfortune.\n\nThe earliest introduction of Buddhism into the Mongolian steppes took place during the periods of the nomadic empires. Buddhism penetrated Mongolia from Nepal via Central Asia. Many Buddhist terms of Sanskrit origin were adopted via the Sogdian language.\n\nThe rulers of the nomadic empires such as the Xiongnu (209 BCE – 93 CE), Xianbei (93 CE - 234 CE), Rouran Khaganate (late 4th c. CE - middle 6th c. CE) and the Göktürks (middle first mill. CE) received missionaries and built temples for them. Buddhism prevailed among aristocrats and was patronised by the monarchs of the Northern Wei (386 CE - 534 CE) established by the Xianbei and of the Liao dynasty (907 CE - 1125 CE) established by the Khitan people. The Khitan aristocracy regarded Buddhism as the culture of the Uyghur Khaganate that dominated the Mongolian steppes before the rise of the Khitans. The monarchs of the Jin (1115–1234) established by the Jurchen people also regarded Buddhism as part of their Khitan.\n\nGenghis Khan (c. 1162 - 1227) and his immediate successors conquered nearly all of Asia and European Russia and sent armies as far as central Europe and Southeast Asia. The emperors of the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368) in the 13th and 14th century converted to Tibetan Buddhism. Kublai Khan (reign 1269-1294; established the Yuan-dynasty in 1271) invited lama Drogön Chögyal Phagpa of the Sakya school of Tibetan Buddhism to spread Buddhism throughout his realm (the second introduction of Buddhism among the Mongols). Buddhism became the \"de facto\" state religion of the Mongol Yuan state. In 1269, Kublai Khan commissioned Phagpa lama to design a new writing system to unify the writing systems of the multilingual empire. The 'Phags-pa script, also known as the \"Square script\", was based on the Tibetan script and written vertically from top was designed to write in Mongolian, Tibetan, Chinese, Uighur and Sanskrit languages and served as the official script of the empire.\n\nTibetan Buddhist monasticism made an important impact on the early development of Mongolian Buddhism. Buddhist monkhood played significant political roles in Central and Southeast Asia, and the sangha in Mongolia was no exception. \n\nMongols assisted Tibetans in unifying the country. The activities of the Mongols were conducive to the prominency of the Sakya school and then the Gelug, and to the further development of Tibeto-Mongolian civilisation.\n\nThe Mongols returned to shamanic traditions after the collapse of the Mongol Empire.\n\nHutuhtai Secen Hongtaiji of Ordos and his two brothers invaded Tibet in 1566. He sent an ultimatum to some of the ruling clergy of Tibet demanding their submission. The Tibetan supreme monks decided to surrender and Hutuhtai Secen Hongtaiji returned to Ordos with three high ranking monks. Tumen Jasaghtu Khan invited a monk of the Kagyu school in 1576.\n\nIn 1578 Altan Khan, a Mongol military leader with ambitions to unite the Mongols and to emulate the career of Genghis Khan, invited the 3rd Dalai Lama, the head of the rising Gelug lineage to a summit. They formed an alliance that gave Altan Khan legitimacy and religious sanction for his imperial pretensions and that provided the Buddhist school with protection and patronage. Altan Khan recognized Sonam Gyatso lama as a reincarnation of Phagpa lama, gave the Tibetan leader the title of Dalai Lama (\"Ocean Lama\"), which his successors still hold. Sonam Gyatso, in turn, recognized Altan as a reincarnation of Kublai Khan. Thus, Altan added legitimacy to the title \"khan\" that he had assumed, while Sonam Gyatso received support for the supremacy he sought over the Tibetan sangha. Since this meeting, the heads of the Gelugpa school became known as Dalai Lamas. Altan Khan also bestowed the title Ochirdara (Очирдар, from Sanskr. Vajradhara) to Sonam Gyatso.\n\nAltan Khan died soon after, but in the next century the Gelug spread throughout Mongolia, aided in part by the efforts of contending Mongol aristocrats to win religious sanction and mass support for their ultimately unsuccessful efforts to unite all Mongols in a single state. Viharas (Mongolian \"datsan\") were built across Mongolia, often sited at the juncture of trade and migration routes or at summer pastures where large numbers of herders would congregate for shamanistic rituals and sacrifices. Buddhist monks carried out a protracted struggle with the indigenous shamans and succeeded, to some extent, in taking over their functions and fees as healers and diviners, and in pushing the shamans to the fringes of Mongolian culture and religion.\n\nChurch and state supported each other, and the doctrine of reincarnation made it possible for the reincarnations of living Buddhas to be discovered conveniently in the families of Mongolian nobility until this practice was outlawed by the Qianlong Emperor of the Qing dynasty.\n\nDuring the Qing's Emperor Hong Taiji's (1592-1643) campaign against the last Mongol khan Ligdan Khan, he started the sponsorship of Tibetan Buddhism to gain support. According to the Manchu historian Jin Qicong, Buddhism was used by Qing rulers to control Mongolians and Tibetans; it was of little relevance to ordinary Manchus in the Qing dynasty.\n\nThe long association of the Manchu rulership with the Bodhisattva Manjusri, and his own interest in Tibetan Buddhism, gave credence to the Qianlong Emperor's patronage of Tibetan Buddhist art, and patronage of translations of the Buddhist canon. He supported the Yellow Church (the Tibetan Buddhist Gelukpa sect) to \"maintain peace among the Mongols\" since the Mongols were followers of the Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama of the Yellow Church. Mark Elliott concludes that these actions delivered political benefits but \"meshed seamlessly with his personal faith.\"\n\nThe Khalkha nobles' power was deliberately undermined by Qianlong, when he appointed the Tibetan Ishi-damba-nima of the Lithang royal family of the eastern Tibetans as the 3rd reincarnated Jebtsundamba, instead of the Khalkha Mongol which they wanted to be appointed. The decision was first protested against by the Outer Mongol Khalkha nobles, and then the Khalkhas sought to have him placed at a distance from them at Dolonnor. Nevertheless, Qianlong snubbed both of their requests, sending the message that he was putting an end to Outer Mongolian autonomy. The decision to make Tibet the only place where the reincarnation came from was intentional by the Qing to curtail the Mongols.\n\nBy the beginning of the twentieth century, Outer Mongolia had 583 monasteries and temple complexes, which controlled an estimated 20 percent of the country's wealth. Almost all Mongolian cities have grown up on the sites of monasteries. \"Ikh Huree\", as Ulaanbaatar was then known, was the seat of the preeminent living Buddha of Mongolia (the Jebtsundamba Khutuktu, also known as the Bogdo Gegen and later as the Bogd Khan), who ranked third in the ecclesiastical hierarchy after the Dalai Lama and the Panchen Lama. Two monasteries there contained approximately 13,000 and 7000 monks, respectively, and the pre-revolutionary name of the settlement known to outsiders as \"Urga\", \"Ikh Huree\", means \"Big Monastery\".\n\nOver the centuries, the monasteries acquired riches and secular dependents, gradually increasing their wealth and power as the wealth and power of the Mongol nobility declined. Some nobles donated a portion of their dependent families—people, rather than land, were the foundation of wealth and power in old Mongolia—to the monasteries. Some herders dedicated themselves and their families to serve the monasteries, either from piety or from the desire to escape the arbitrary exactions of the nobility. In some areas, the monasteries and their living buddhas (of whom there were a total of 140 in 1924) were also the secular authorities. In the 1920s, there were about 110,000 monks, including children, who made up about one-third of the male population, although many of these lived outside the monasteries and did not observe their vows. About 250,000 people, more than a third of the total population, either lived in territories administered by monasteries and living Buddhas or were hereditary dependents of the monasteries.\n\nWith the end of Manchu rule in 1911, the Buddhist church and its clergy provided the only political structure available. The autonomous state thus took the form of a weakly centralized theocracy, headed by the Jebtsundamba Khutukhtu in Yehe Kuriye.\n\nBy the twentieth century, Buddhism had penetrated deeply into the culture of Mongolia, and the populace willingly supported the lamas and the monasteries. Foreign observers usually had a negative opinion of Mongolian monks, condemning them as lazy, ignorant, corrupt, and debauched, but the Mongolian people did not concur. Ordinary Mongolians apparently combined a cynical and realistic anticlericalism, sensitive to the faults and the human fallibility of individual monks or groups of monks, with a deep and unwavering concern for the transcendent values of the church.\n\nWhen the revolutionaries took power, determined to modernize their country and to reform its society, they confronted a massive ecclesiastical structure that enrolled a larger part of the population, monopolized education and medical services, administered justice in a part of the country, and controlled a great deal of the national wealth.\n\nThe Buddhist church, moreover, had no interest in reforming itself or in modernizing the country. The result was a protracted political struggle that absorbed the energies and attention of the party and its Soviet advisers for nearly twenty years. As late as 1934, the party counted 843 major Buddhist centers, about 3,000 temples of various sizes, and nearly 6000 associated buildings, which usually were the only fixed structures in a world of yurts. The annual income of the church was 31 million tögrögs, while that of the state was 37.5 million tögrögs. A party source claimed that, in 1935, monks constituted 48 percent of the adult male population.\n\nIn a campaign marked by shifts of tactics, alternating between conciliation and persecution, and a few reported uprisings led by monks and abbots, the Buddhist church was removed progressively from public administration, was subjected to confiscatory taxes, was forbidden to teach children, and was prohibited from recruiting new monks or replacing living Buddhas. The campaign's timing matched the phases of Joseph Stalin's persecution of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nRobert Rupen reports that in the 1920s there were over 112,000 Mongolian Buddhist monks, representing more than 13% of Mongolia's overall population. By the 1940s, nearly every monk was either dead or had apostatized. In 1938 — amid accusations that the church and monasteries were trying to cooperate with the Japanese, who were promoting a pan-Mongol puppet state — the remaining monasteries were dissolved, their property was seized, and their monks were secularized, interned or executed. Those monastic buildings that had not been destroyed were taken over to serve as local government offices or schools. Only then was the ruling party, which since 1921 gradually had built a cadre of politically reliable and secularly educated administrators, able to destroy the church and to mobilize the country's wealth and population for its program of modernization and social change.\nSince the late 1940s, one monastery, Gandan Monastery, with a community of 100 monks, was open in Ulaanbaatar. It was the country's sole monastery and was more for international display than functionality. A few of the old monasteries survived as museums, and the Gandan Monastery served as a living museum and a tourist attraction. Its monks included a few young men who had undergone a five-year training period, but whose motives and mode of selection were unknown to Western observers. The party apparently thought that Buddhism no longer posed a challenge to its dominance and that — because Buddhism had played so large a part in the history of Mongolia and traditional arts and culture, total extirpation of knowledge about the religion and its practices would cut modern Mongols off from much of their past to the detriment of their national identity. A few aged former monks were employed to translate Tibetan-language handbooks on herbs and traditional Tibetan medicine. Government spokesmen described the monks of the Gandan Monastery as doing useful work. Today the monastery has been reinvigorated as Gandantegchinlen Monastery by the post-Communist governments of the country.\n\nBuddhism, furthermore played a role in Mongolia's foreign policy by linking Mongolia with the communist and the noncommunist states of East and Southeast Asia. Ulaanbaatar was the headquarters of the Asian Buddhist Conference for Peace, which has held conferences for Buddhists from such countries as Japan, Vietnam, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, and Bhutan; published a journal for international circulation; and maintained contacts with such groups as the Christian Peace Conference, the Soviet Afro-Asian Solidarity Committee and the Russian Orthodox Church. It sponsored the visits of the Dalai Lama to Mongolia in 1979 and 1982. The organization, headed by the abbot of then-Gandan Monastery, advanced the foreign policy goals of the Mongolian government, which were in accord with those of the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter the 1990 overthrow of communism, there has been a resurgence of Buddhism in the country, with about 200 temples now in existence and a monastic sangha of around 300 to 500 Mongolian monks and nuns. According to Vesna Wallace, a professor of religious studies at UC Santa Barbara: \"Now more people are coming to temples and visiting monasteries. There is also a new interest in meditation among the general public.\"\n\nAccording to the national census of 2010, 53% of the Mongolians identify as Buddhists.\n\n\n\n\nUlanov, MS., Badmaev, VN., Matsakova NP. (2016). Buddhism and Legal Tradition in Mongolia, in, Bylye gody. 2016. №4 \n\n"}
{"id": "1855425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855425", "title": "Christian Social Party of Peru", "text": "Christian Social Party of Peru\n\nChristian Social Party of Peru (in Spanish: \"Partido Social Cristiano del Perú\") was a political party in Peru founded in 1946. Víctor Cárcamo was the president of the organizing committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "3097423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3097423", "title": "Christofer Johnsson", "text": "Christofer Johnsson\n\nChristofer Johnsson (born 10 August 1972 in Upplands Väsby, Stockholm County) is a Swedish composer. He is a founding member and the guitar player for Therion and used to be in Carbonized, Liers in Wait, Messiah, and Demonoid. He was previously a member of the order Dragon Rouge for over 25 years. On 21 March 2006, he announced he will no longer sing for Therion, though he will continue playing guitar for the group.\n\nIn his childhood Christofer enjoyed listening to classical music, and gradually became more interested in his father's '50s and '60s rock music. Popular music played on the radio in this era generally had a lot of strings in it, and even though much of it didn't fall in his taste, it still managed to influence him. As a 7-year-old he heard his first progressive rock as a theme in a Norwegian children TV-program. As 9-year old, he started to listen to The Beatles, who also used brass and strings in songs like \"Penny Lane\".\nAt an age of 11, his taste for music took a turn as he started to listen to hard rock and heavy metal bands like Accept, Judas Priest, W.A.S.P., Iron Maiden, Saxon, Motörhead, Venom, Manowar, Ozzy Osbourne, Black Sabbath, and Uriah Heep. Many of these bands had orchestral elements in some of their songs. When he was 14, he started to listen to more raw heavy metal bands like Metallica, Slayer, Anthrax, and especially Celtic Frost. One of his friends played the B-side of a Scorpions album for him, and Christofer instantly fell in love with Scorpion's older albums. Uli Roth, who played guitar on these albums, had broken up with Scorpions and formed the band Electric Sun. Christofer managed to find a copy of one of their albums after a long search, and was disappointed at first. After a period of time, he gave it more of a chance, and ended up becoming insanely obsessed with the music. He mentions Uli Roth as one of his greatest influences in the symphonic Therion albums.\n\nJohnsson resides in a villa ('Villa Adulruna') south of Stockholm with his girlfriend, Mina Karadzic and has a child. He is a vegetarian for seventeen years.\n\nOn 26 July 1992 Johnsson's parents' house was set on fire. Christofer was on tour and not home at the time of the incident. Only one inch of a backdoor was damaged before the fire was put out, but the event was blown up in media and caused many rumours in the metal scene.\n\nOn 26 January 2017, Johnsson revealed he had been suffering from intense pain in the neck and shoulders, and he was diagnosed with two spinal disc herniations (allegedly produced because of years of headbanging), and he was in risk of losing the ability to perform live. As a result, the rock opera project was delayed and the band downplayed their sets of songs in concerts to allow Johnsson to perform. By 8 April, Johnsson announced he had been able to avoid surgery as his condition had improved through physiotherapy, organised in Moscow, Russia by Imperial Age (band) leaders Alexander Osipov and Jane Odintsova and he would resume to perform at festivals by August.\n\n"}
{"id": "13939107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13939107", "title": "Christopher Derrick", "text": "Christopher Derrick\n\nChristopher Hugh Derrick (12 June 1921 – 2 October 2007) was an English author, reviewer, publisher's reader and lecturer. All his works are informed by wide interest in contemporary problems and a lively commitment to Catholic teaching.\n\nChristopher Derrick was born at Hungerford, the son of the artist, illustrator and cartoonist Thomas Derrick and his wife Margaret, née Clausen. He was educated at Douai School 1934–39, and at Magdalen College, Oxford, 1940 and 1945–47, his studies being interrupted by service in the Royal Air Force during the Second World War. In 1943 he married Katharine Helen Sharratt, who graduated from Bedford College the same year. They had nine children, eight sons and a daughter. From 1953 to 1965 he was Printing Officer of the University of London, as well as working as a reader for Macmillan. Thereafter he worked independently as a literary adviser to various publishers, as a book reviewer, and as a writer and lecturer. He died on 2 October 2007 at the age of 86. His surviving literary papers have been deposited in the archive at Douai Abbey, Berkshire.\n\nMost interest in Derrick has been in his memories of G. K. Chesterton, who was a friend of his father, and more especially C. S. Lewis, who was Derrick's tutor at Magdalen. He was constantly being asked by Lewis's Catholic admirers – such as the German Neo-Thomist, Josef Pieper, two of whose works Derrick had reviewed – why Lewis himself never became a Catholic. He provided as definitive an answer as possible in his 1981 book \"C. S. Lewis and the Church of Rome\". Another friend was the economist E. F. Schumacher, whose interest in Catholic social teaching he shared.\n\nBesides working as a literary adviser to a number of British publishing houses, Derrick was also a prolific book reviewer, among other publications for \"The Times Literary Supplement\" as well as for \"The Tablet\", where his brother Michael Derrick was the assistant editor 1938–1961. For a time he was himself the editor of \"Good Work\", the journal of the Catholic Art Association.\n\nHis daily occupation as a publisher's reader and a book reviewer meant constant engagement with the emerging trends of literary culture. He drew on this in many ways, including the writing of a book of advice for aspiring novelists: \"Reader's Report on the Writing of Novels\".\n\nMost of Derrick's writings, however, draw less on such literary reminiscences than on reflection on matters of pressing public concern within and outside the Catholic Church in the 1960s, 70s and 80s: the environment, social relations, sexual relations, population, liturgy, ecumenism, inter-religious dialogue, education, and the current state of language and literature. One of the more successful of these books was \"Escape from Scepticism\", a work inspired by the great books programme at Thomas Aquinas College in California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2866401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2866401", "title": "Cosmic Tradition", "text": "Cosmic Tradition\n\nThe Cosmic Tradition is a series of six volumes, and also a cosmological doctrine, authored by Max and Alma Théon around the turn of the 20th century. The books, four volumes of which are available on-line in French, tell a creation myth and the early history of the world, in an elaborate mythological style reminiscent of the works of H.P. Blavatsky, Rudolf Steiner (\"Cosmic Memory\"), Edgar Cayce, and Ann Ree Colton. \n\nThe account of creation at the start of the first volume also incorporates elements of Lurianic Kabbalah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42270954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42270954", "title": "Dabuya", "text": "Dabuya\n\nDabuya or Dabuyih (), was the Dabuyid ruler (ispahbadh) of Tabaristan. He succeeded his father Gil Gavbara in 660 and reigned until his death in 712. His son, Farrukhan the Great succeeded him.\n\n"}
{"id": "51160977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51160977", "title": "Doris Bither case", "text": "Doris Bither case\n\nThe Doris Bither case, also known as the Entity hauntings, was an alleged haunting which occurred in 1974 at Los Angeles, California where a woman named Doris Bither alleged the ghosts of three men were raping her. The case inspired Frank De Felitta's 1978 book \"The Entity\" which was made into a 1982 film of the same name starring Barbara Hershey.\n\nDoris Bither, a mother of 4 children, had contacted paranormal investigators Barry Taff and Kerry Gaynor who came to investigate on August 22, 1974. Bither alleged that she was attacked and raped by an invisible entity which she believed were the spirits of three men. She claimed two would hold her down while the third raped her. Taff claimed to have photographed orbs during the investigation. Bither had a history of physical and substance abuse. She had been in multiple abusive relationships and had a traumatic childhood. Investigators noticed there was a poor relationship between Doris and her four sons. The home was in poor condition and had been condemned twice.\n\nTaff claimed to have photographed orbs and said the frequency and intensity of attacks decreased with time. Bither died in 1995 of pulmonary arrest.\n\n"}
{"id": "22238223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22238223", "title": "East Jesus Nowhere", "text": "East Jesus Nowhere\n\n\"East Jesus Nowhere\" is a song by the American punk rock band Green Day. The single was released October 19, 2009. It was released as the third single from their eighth album \"21st Century Breakdown\". The title is derived from a phrase in the 2007 film \"Juno\".\n\nThe song rebukes fundamentalist religion and was written by singer/guitarist Billie Joe Armstrong after he attended a church service where a friend's baby was baptized.\n\nThe music video was released on September 17, 2009. It shows a montage of live concert footage and pictures from their 21st Century Breakdown World Tour. The video is longer by about 30 seconds, because the bridge of the song is extended, although the studio version of the song is still used instead of a live version. The music video was directed by Chris Dugan and M. Douglas Silverstein.\n\n"}
{"id": "16141963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16141963", "title": "Freedom of religion in Burundi", "text": "Freedom of religion in Burundi\n\nThe Constitution of Burundi provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. Government policy contributes to the generally free practice of religion. In a 2007 US Government study, there were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n\nThe country has an area of and a population of 8,390,500. Although reliable statistics on the followers of various religious groups are not available, sources estimate the Christian population to be 67 percent, with Roman Catholics representing the largest group at 62 percent. Protestant and Anglican practitioners comprise the remaining 5 percent. The local representative of the Holy See estimates the Catholic population to be closer to 65 percent. An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments. The Muslim population is estimated to be as high as 10 percent, the majority of whom live in urban areas. Sunnis make up the majority of the Muslim population, and the remainder is Shi'a.\n\nForeign missionary groups are active in the country.\n\nThe Constitution, promulgated in March 2005, provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice. The Government at all levels sought to protect this right in full and did not tolerate its abuse, either by governmental or private actors. Discrimination on the basis of religious conviction is prohibited. A 1992 law covering nonprofit organizations, including religious groups, is the basis for the recognition and registration of religious bodies.\n\nThere is no state religion.\n\nThe Government requires religious groups to register with the Ministry of the Interior. Each association with a religious nature must file the following with the ministry: the denomination or affiliation of the religious institution, a copy of its statutes, the address of its headquarters in the country, an address abroad if the local religious institution is a subsidiary, and information about the association's governing body and legal representative. If an association with a religious nature fails to register with the Ministry, its representative is reminded of the requirement to do so. If the representative does not comply, the place of worship or association is instructed to close down. Although the representative of the religious institution or association can be jailed for 6 months to 5 years for failing to comply with these instructions, during the reporting period no representative received this penalty.\n\nThe Government requires that all religious groups maintain a headquarters in the country.\n\nWhile there is no law that accords tax exemptions to religious groups, the Government often waives taxes on imported religious articles used by religious institutions and on the importation by religious institutions of goods destined for social development purposes. The Finance Ministry negotiates these exemptions on a case-by-case basis, and there is no indication of religious bias in the awarding of such exemptions.\n\nThe heads of major religious organizations are accorded diplomatic status. Foreign missionary groups openly promote their religious beliefs. The Government has welcomed their development assistance.\n\nThe Government recognizes Catholic holy days, including the Assumption, the Ascension, All Saints' Day, and Christmas. In 2005 the Government also officially recognized the Islamic holy days of Eid al-Fitr, commemorating the end of Ramadan, and Eid al-Adha, which is celebrated at the end of the Hajj.\n\nGovernment policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.\n\nThere were no known abuses of religious freedom by the Government during the period covered by this report.\n\nIn the past, the Party for the Liberation of the Hutu People-National Liberation Force (PALIPEHUTU-FNL) was considered responsible for the killings of religious adherents, including five civilians attending a religious service in Bujumbura Rural Province in June 2005 and Catholic priest Gerard Nzeyimana in Makamba Province in October 2004. No one has been charged in these killings.\n\nThere were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country.\n\nThere were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.\n\nThere were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173131", "title": "Glossary of Islam", "text": "Glossary of Islam\n\nThe following list consists of notable concepts that are derived from both Islamic and Arab tradition, which are expressed as words in the Arabic language. The main purpose of this list is to disambiguate multiple spellings, to make note of spellings no longer in use for these concepts, to define the concept in one or two lines, to make it easy for one to find and pin down specific concepts, and to provide a guide to unique concepts of Islam all in one place.\n\nSeparating concepts in Islam from concepts specific to Arab culture, or from the language itself, can be difficult. Many Arabic concepts have an Arabic secular meaning as well as an Islamic meaning. One example is the concept of dawah. Arabic, like all languages, contains words whose meanings differ across various contexts. The word \"Islam\" is itself a good example.\n\nArabic is written in its own alphabet, with letters, symbols, and orthographic conventions that do not have exact equivalents in the Latin alphabet (see Arabic alphabet). The following list contains transliterations of Arabic terms and phrases; variations exist, e.g. \"din\" instead of \"deen\" and \"aqidah\" instead of \"aqeedah\". Most items in the list also contain their actual Arabic spelling.\n\n\n\n\n\nEid al-Fitr (عيد الفطر)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58506522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58506522", "title": "Grace Road Church", "text": "Grace Road Church\n\nThe Grace Road Church is a South Korean quasi-Christian new religious movement and cult (although its members call it a Church) founded in 2002.\n\nThose who study the church claim it shares many similarities with other Korean cults. There is a belief of absolute obedience to the religious leader, a group-specific interpretation of the Bible and a teaching of the imminent coming of Jesus Christ, with a provision of the place for the final shelter. \n\nThe church is currently based in Fiji, after its leader, Pastor Shin Ok-ju, predicted a famine in Korea. The group and its leader believe that Fiji is the so-called \"center of the world as promised in the Bible\" and moved there in 2014. Per the groups website, a missionary for the church was sent around the world to discover a land to survive the famine, and after scouting 60 countries settled on Fiji. After the members arrived in Fiji all of the 400 followers' passports were reportedly seized by church leaders.\n\nMainstream churches in Fiji have reportedly raised accusations against the church for being a cult for years. A spokesman for the local Methodist Church told reporters, \"I think it's common knowledge here that the movement is a cult movement...\".\n\nThe church raises funds for the church using Grace Road Group, which opened businesses across Fiji that range from construction to agriculture. The company employed, in August 2018, at least 300 Koreans and 100 Fijians. The businesses opened by the group include restaurant chains, beauty salons, a construction firm, a hardware store, and a farm in partnership with the Fiji National University.\n\nA statement from the organization claims that the allegations against Pastor Shin Ok-ju are false and have gone too far. The statement continued with \"GR Group family, who have been working proudly as owners are very enraged by all the lies...Those who wish to slander us have created unspeakable lies about passport confiscation, forced labour, incarceration and violence.\"\n\nFootage has emerged of the Church's followers forcibly slapping each other, supposedly to beat the Devil out of each other. In a documentary aired in South Korea, testimony of ex-church members detailed allegations of physical abuse and overwork. Pastor Shin Ok-ju and other members would surround individuals and beat them.\n\nIn 2014, Pastor Shin Ok-ju was sued for $6 million by a man with schizophrenia, who alleged that she oversaw an attempt to cure him of his mental illness with prayer. The lawsuit alleged that she supervised the religious cleansing of the defendant, by binding him with duct tape, and deprived him of his medication for 10 days, ultimately causing him to lose his leg due to gangrene. \n\nThree of its members were arrested after arriving at Incheon Airport in Seoul, South Korea in July 2018. In August 2018, investigations into the group, after the arrest of the group's founder, included allegations of incarceration, assault, and the exploitation of foreign currency, were continued by Korean Police. The church headquarters in Navua were raided on 14 August by Korean police, the Department of Immigration, and the Fiji Police force. During the raid some 400 followers of the church were left with a choice to return to South Korea and receive consular assistance, while others still follow the group or are unsure future plans.\n"}
{"id": "994972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994972", "title": "Gurung people", "text": "Gurung people\n\nThe Gurung people, also called Tamu, are an ethnic group from different parts of Nepal. They are one of the main Gurkha tribes. They believe that till the 15th century they were ruled by a Gurung king. When the British Empire came to South Asia, the Gurung people began serving the British in Army regiments of Gurkhas.\n\nPriestly practitioners of the Gurung Dharma include Ghyabri (Klehpri), Pachyu (Paju), and Bon Lamas. Shamanistic elements among the Gurungs remain strong and most Gurungs often embrace Buddhist and Bön rituals in communal activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1704861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704861", "title": "His Eminence", "text": "His Eminence\n\nHis Eminence (abbreviation \"H.Em.\", oral address Your Eminence or Most Reverend Eminence) is a historical style of reference for high nobility, still in use in various religious contexts.\n\nThe style remains in use as the official style or standard of address in reference to a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, reflecting his status as a Prince of the Church.\n\nA longer, and more formal, title is \"His (or Your when addressing the cardinal directly) Most Reverend Eminence\". \n\nPatriarchs of Eastern Catholic Churches who are also cardinals may be addressed as \"His Eminence\" or by the style particular to Eastern Catholic patriarchs, \"His Beatitude\".\n\nWhen the Grand Master of the Military Order of the Knights of Malta, the head of state of their sovereign territorial state comprising the island of Malta until 1797, who had already been made a Reichsfürst (i.e., prince of the Holy Roman Empire) in 1607, became (in terms of honorary order of precedence, not in the actual church hierarchy of ordained ministers) the most senior official after the most junior member of the cardinals in 1630, he was also awarded the hybrid style His Most Eminent Highness (abbreviation HMEH) to recognize his status as a type of prince of the Church.\nThe Prince and Grand Master of the contemporary Sovereign Military Order of Malta is still syled His Most Eminent Highness. Styles such as \"His Grand Eminence\" or \"His Eminent Grace\" amongst others were used as well, some formalized by the pope or other powers, such as monarchs. However, many others were simply the personal preference of the cardinal and by the merit of other earthly offices. \nWhile the term is shunned by many individuals of other faiths or denominations of Christianity, the title is officially maintained in international diplomacy without regard for its doctrinal, philosophical and theological origins.\n\nArchbishops in the Eastern Orthodox Church are addressed with the styles of \"Beatitude\" or \"Eminence\". The Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople is styled \"His All-Holiness\", and so is, exceptionally, the Metropolitan Bishop of Thessaloniki. The patriarchs of Alexandria, Antiochia and Jerusalem (\"His Most Godly Beatitude\"), as well as the Georgian, Serbian, Bulgarian and Russian patriarchs are referred to as \"His Holiness\", while Romanian Patriarchs are referred to as \"His Beatitude\".\n\nIn Oriental Orthodoxy bishops holding the rank of metropolitan are referred to as \"His Eminence\". The Archbishop of Ohrid and Macedonia is addressed as \"His Beatitude\".\n\nIt is also used, informally (perhaps as a rendering of an oriental style), in Islam for highly honorable religious leaders. For example, an Imam of the Sunni Barelwi school of thought, Moulana Syed Madani Mia, is often addressed with this title, along with individuals such as Moulana Khushtar Siddiqi of Mauritius, although these titles are, in essence, unofficial. Beyond this, the traditional rulers of the sub-national states of the Fulani, Hausa, Nupe and Kanuri peoples of Nigeria use the style as an alternative to the HRH style that is usually used by the country's royal monarchs, highlighting by so doing their positions as spiritual as well as temporal leaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "43972961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43972961", "title": "Historical Jewish Press", "text": "Historical Jewish Press\n\nHistorical Jewish Press is an online archive of historical newspapers written and published by Jews. The database enables, through digitization, virtual access to the Hebrew press in most of its years of existence, starting from mid 19th Century to mid 20th Century, along with the Jewish press in Yiddish, Judeo-Arabic, English, French and Hungarian. The site is a project of the Tel Aviv University and the National Library of Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "4438923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4438923", "title": "How I Became a Hindu", "text": "How I Became a Hindu\n\nHow I Became a Hindu is an autobiography by Sita Ram Goel, which he published in 1982 and enlarged in 1993 under his Voice of India imprint.\n\nGoel writes that he had strong Marxist leanings as a student. He read Karl Marx's \"The Communist Manifesto\" and almost joined the Communist Party of India. In these years, he \"came to the conclusion that while Marx stood for a harmonised social system, Sri Aurobindo held the key to a harmonised human personality.\"\n\nDuring Direct Action Day, on 16 August 1946, Goel \"would have been killed by a Muslim mob\" were it not for his command of Urdu and the Western clothes he wore averting any \"suspicion\" he was actually Hindu. Goel writes that on the evening of the 17th, he, his wife and son \"had to vacate that house and scale a wall at the back to escape murderous Muslim mobs advancing with firearms.\"\n\nOne of the biggest influences on Goel was the author Ram Swarup. Goel became more and more interested in Hinduism: \"Sanatana Dharma called upon its votary to explore his own self in the first instance and see for himself the truths expounded in sacred scriptures. Prophets and churches and scriptures could be aids but never the substitutes for self exploration, self purification, and self transcendence.\"\n\nHe therefore finally became a Hindu:\n\n"}
{"id": "8466820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8466820", "title": "Howler monkey gods", "text": "Howler monkey gods\n\nAmong the Classic Mayas, the howler monkey god was a major deity of the arts—including music—and a patron of the artisans, especially of the scribes and sculptors. As such, his sphere of influence overlapped with that of the Tonsured Maize God. The monkey patrons—there are often two of them—have been depicted on Classic vases in the act of writing books (while stereotypically holding an ink nap) and carving human heads. Together, these two activities may have constituted a metaphor for the creation of mankind, with the book containing the birth signs and the head the life principle or 'soul', an interpretation reinforced by the craftsman titles of the creator gods in the Popol Vuh.\n\nBased on its facial features, the stone sculpture of a seated writer found within the House of the Scribes in Copan is often described as a howler monkey. However, it is the two large statues of simian figures shaking rattles (see fig.), found on both sides of the 'Reviewing Stand' of Copan's temple 11, that approach much more closely the standard representation of this animal in Maya art and in Long Count inscriptions (including the snakes in the corners of the mouth). Variously described as wind gods and as 'were-monkeys' and ritual clowns, these statues may actually represent howler monkeys in their quality of musicians. A ceramic incense burner modeled like a howler monkey scribe has been found at Post-classic Mayapan.\n\nAt the time of the Spanish invasion, the howler monkeys continued to be venerated, although the role they played in mythological narratives diverged. Bartolomé de las Casas stated that in the Alta Verapaz, Hun-Ahan (probably 'One-Woodcarver') and Hun-Cheven (Hun-Chowen in the Popol Vuh) were counted among the thirteen sons of the upper god, and were celebrated as cosmogonic creator deities. Among the Quiché Mayas, they were less positively valued: According to the Popol Vuh, Hun-Chowen and Hun-Batz 'One-Howler Monkey' (both artists and musicians) clashed with their half-brothers, the Maya Hero Twins, a conflict which led to their humiliating transformation into monkeys.\n\nIn the mantic calendar, Howler Monkey (Batz), corresponding to Spider Monkey (Ozomatli) in the Aztec system, denotes the 11th day, which is associated with the arts. In the Long Count (see Maya calendar), the Howler Monkey can personify the day-unit, which connects him to the priestly arts of calendrical reckoning and divination, as well as to ritualistic and historical knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "1678588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678588", "title": "Isha katlanit", "text": "Isha katlanit\n\nIsha katlanit (, literally: \"lethal/deadly woman\") is a term used in \"halakha\" (\"Jewish law\") for a married woman who has become a widow twice. Such a woman, it is said, should not marry again, because marrying her carries the risk that her next husband may also die (\"i.e.\", she will become the \"cause\" of his death because her marriage to her two previous husbands ended when they died.)\n\nThe origin of this rule is Talmudic. There is a dispute in the Talmud about whether a woman becomes a \"katlanit\" (\"causing death\") after the death of two husbands or the death of three husbands. The conclusion is that two are enough to define a \"katlanit\", a term of art found in post-Talmudic literature.\n\nThe Talmud presents two reasons why marrying a \"katlanit\" is risky: \n\nMaimonides maintains that if one has already married such a woman, he has no obligation to divorce her according to Jewish law. Other rabbis, including Rabbi Asher ben Jehiel, take a more rigorous position. In their opinion, a man is not an \"owner\" of his life, so he has no right to endanger it. Consequently, one who married a \"katlanit\" must divorce her. \n\nTechnically, the \"isha katlanit\" rule may still be valid for those who adhere to Orthodox Judaism. As a practical matter, however, rabbinic authorities have substantially curtailed the relevance of the principles, thanks partly to the rabbinic principle of \"The Lord protects the simple\" from unusual dangers. In addition, rabbinic authorities have expressed in responsa their concern that widows be allowed to remarry, both for their own moral benefit and for the sake of the Jewish population. Today it is accepted that deaths of old husbands (over age 70) or deaths of husbands caused by an obvious accident are not reasons to define a woman as a \"katlanit\". Unnatural causes, though, may activate the rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "57399917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57399917", "title": "Jaganmata", "text": "Jaganmata\n\nJaganmata (\"Jagat\"=world, + \"mata\"=mother) is considered to be an incarnation of Devi Parvati, the wife of Lord Shiva. Jaganmata is also considered to be a form of Devi Bhuvaneshwari, another incarnation of Devi Parvati.\n\nIt is said that Jaganmata is the mother of the entire cosmic world. From a tiny virus to entire universe, from the non-living to the living world, the mother is Jaganmata. It is believed that she holds a lotus in one hand and other hand in a position of blessing the devotee(straightening the palm towards the devotee). It is also said that if there is a threat to the cosmic creation, she transforms into Goddess Durga/Mahakali/Bhairavi/Chamundeshwari to destroy the threat. She is also called as Akhilandeshwari, Vishveshwari, Lokeshwari, etc. \n"}
{"id": "40663681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40663681", "title": "Jainism in Southeast Asia", "text": "Jainism in Southeast Asia\n\nJainism is a minority religion in Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and other Southeast Asian countries. More broadly, the civilisation of India in general has influenced the languages, scripts, calendars, and artistic aspects of these people and nations.\n\nThere are references in Jain texts to various areas of Southeast Asia. During the reign of Samprati, Jain teachers were sent to various Southeast Asian countries.\n\nProminent Jains (e.g., Jain monk Kshullaka Prayatna Sagar) from India have visited South East Asia for the purpose of representing Jainism, guiding the local Jain community and interacting with the members of other religious faiths, notably Buddhism.\n\nThe Jain Agamas refer to Southeast Asia as Suvarnabhumi. Kalakacharya, a Jain monk, is said to have visited Burma.\n\nAbout 5000 Jain families lived in Burma before World War II. Almost all of the families have now left. There are three or four Jain families and a Jain temple in Yangon. It was built with romanesque architecture and is located on 29th Street in Latha Township in Old Rangoon. The Yangon Heritage Trust has been lobbying to preserve this temple, along with other prominent landmarks of Old Rangoon.\n\nThere is no evidence of Jainism in Cambodia.\n\nA small Jain community exists in Indonesia. The community organises various Jain festivals in Jakarta. The community organisation is called Jain Social Group, Indonesia.\n\nThere is no presence of Jainism in Laos.\n\nThere are about 2,500 Jains in Malaysia. It is believed some of them came to Malacca in the 15th or 16th century.\n\nThe first Jain temple in Malaysia is located at Ipoh, Perak and was consecrated in 2012. There is also a Jain temple in Kuala Lumpur. The temple is located in the Bangsar locality of Kuala Lumpur and was built using 4000 kilograms of marble from India. Malaysia's Human Resources Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam was present during the inauguration of the temple in 2011.\n\nThe Jain community actively celebrates Jain festivals like Paryushan.\n\nThere is no presence of Jainism in the Philippines.\n\nJains have been settled in Singapore since just before the First World War (1910 – 1914). As of 2006, there were 1,000 Jains in Singapore.\n\nHistorically, Jain monks took Jain images to Thailand via Sri Lanka. A nude Jain image is worshipped as an image of Buddha at Chiangmai. However, due to a rigid emphasis on austerity, Jainism did not take root in Thailand.\n\nAs of 2011, there are about 600 Jain families in Thailand, mainly in Bangkok. The Jain community in Thailand in not united, unlike the Jain communities in Singapore, the United States, and some other countries. Separate Jain temples exist for the Digambara and the Svetmabara Jain communities. The Digambar Jain Foundation was established in 2007.\n\nThe Jain community also sponsors local Thai PhD students to pursue higher studies in Jainism. Some restaurants in Thailand serve Jain food.\n\nA majority of the diamond cutting and polishing business in Bangkok is handled by the Jain community.\n\nThere is no presence of Jainism in Vietnam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26373176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26373176", "title": "Jewish peoplehood", "text": "Jewish peoplehood\n\nJewish peoplehood (Hebrew: עמיות יהודית, \"Amiut Yehudit\") is the conception of the awareness of the underlying unity that makes an individual a part of the Jewish people.\n\nThe concept of peoplehood has a double meaning. The first is descriptive, as a concept factually describing the existence of the Jews as a people. The second is normative, as a value that describes the feeling of belonging and commitment to the Jewish people.\n\nSome believe that the concept of Jewish peoplehood is a paradigm shift in Jewish life. Insisting that the mainstream of Jewish life is focused on Zionism, Jewish nationalism, they argue that Jewish life should instead focus on Jewish peoplehood.\n\nOthers maintain that the concept of peoplehood, or \"Klal Yisrael\" has permeated Jewish life for millennia, and to focus on it does not constitute a shift from the focus on Jewish nationhood. Jews have been extremely effective in sustaining a sense of joint responsibility towards their people and its members for over 2,000 years.\n\nAt the same time, the concepts of Jews as a nation and as a peoplehood are not necessarily at odds with one another. The very concept of defining Judaism as a people or a \"civilization\" suggests a wide variety of values within the context of Judaism.\n\nThe concept of a distinctive Jewish people has been part of Jewish culture since the development of the Hebrew Bible. Throughout the Torah, Prophets and Writings, Jews are variously referred to as a congregation, a nation, children of Israel or even a kingdom, all implying a connection among people. \n\n\"And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your seed after you in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to you, and to your seed after you\". Genesis 17:7/8\n\n\"There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from those of every people\". Esther 3:8\n\n\"In each generation every individual should feel as though he or she had actually been redeemed from Egypt\". The Haggadah\n\n\"Kol yisrael arevim zeh bazeh\" – \"All Israelites are sureties for one another\". Talmud Shevuot 39a\n\n\"Goy\" גוי, in Biblical Hebrew, literally means \"nation\", and historically Jews are most commonly described with variations of this concept. In , God promises Abraham that his descendants will form a (\"great nation\"). In , the Jews are referred to as a \"goy kadosh\" (גוי קדוש), a \"holy nation\". One of the more poetic descriptions of the Jewish people in the Hebrew Bible, and popular among Jewish scholarship, is , or \"a unique nation upon the earth!\" ( and ). The \"nation\" concept refers not just to a territorial or political entity, ie the Kingdom of Judah, but in the ancient sense meaning a group of people with a common history, a common destiny, and a sense of connection to one another, an \"ethnos\". The nationhood concept adhered to the biblical and religious identification as a chosen people, a holy nation set apart from the other nations in obedience to the One God. This conception of Jewishness helped to preserve the Jewish people during the diaspora, when Jews were \"scattered among the nations\". It was similarly invoked by the Zionist movement, which sought to Negate the Diaspora (shlilat ha'galut) by Gathering the exiled of Israel (Kibbutz Galuyot) back to their homeland, where they would achieve national self-determination.\n\nSome modern Jewish leaders in the diaspora, particularly American Jews, found the traditional conception of Jews as a \"nation among the nations\" problematic, posing a challenge to integration and inviting charges of dual loyalty. The first significant use of the \"peoplehood\" concept was by Mordecai Kaplan, co-founder of the Reconstructionist School of Judaism, who was searching for a term that would enable him to describe the complex nature of Jewish belonging. Once the State of Israel was founded, he rejected the concept of nationhood, as it had become too closely identified with statehood, and replaced it with the peoplehood concept. In his work \"Judaism as a Civilization\", Kaplan sought to define the Jewish people and religion in socio-cultural terms as well as religious ones. \n\nKaplan’s definition of Judaism as \"an evolving religious civilization\" illumines his understanding of the centrality of Peoplehood in the Jewish religion. Describing Judaism as a religious civilization emphasizes the idea that Jewish people have sought \"to make [their] collective experience yield meaning for the enrichment of the life of the individual Jew and for the spiritual greatness of the Jewish people.\" The definition as a civilization allows Judaism to accept the principles of unity in diversity and continuity in change. It is a reminder that Judaism consists of much that cannot be put into the category of religion in modern times, \"paradoxical as it may sound, the spiritual regeneration of the Jewish people demands that religion cease to be its sole preoccupation.\" In the sense that existence precedes essence and life takes precedence over thought, Judaism exists for the sake of the Jewish people rather than the Jewish people existing for the sake of Judaism.\n\nKaplan's purpose in developing the \"Jewish Peoplehood\" idea was to create a vision broad enough to include everyone who identified as a Jew regardless of individual approaches to that identity.\n\nSince 2000, major Jewish organizations have embraced the peoplehood concept and intellectual interest in the topic has increased. Major organizations such as the Jewish Federations of North America, the JFNA New York Federation, the Jewish Agency for Israel, the Israel Ministry for Education, the Diaspora Museum, the Avi Chai Foundation, the American Jewish Committee and many other smaller organizations are either introducing the peoplehood concept as an organizing principle in their organizations or initiating high-profile programming with an explicit focus on Jewish Peoplehood.\n\nNatan Sharansky, the Jewish Agency’s chairman, declared that the agency’s traditional Zionist mission had outlived its usefulness. In his new capacity, he has made Israel education and promoting Jewish Peoplehood a priority, particularly among the young.\n\nAlongside the use of the peoplehood concept by Jewish organizations, there is a parallel growth of intellectual interest in the topic since 2000. The intellectual discussion asks: What is \"Jewish Peoplehood\"? What are the key characteristics that distinguish Jewish Peoplehood from other concepts?\n\nThe areas of agreement among Jewish intellectuals writing about the concept of Jewish Peoplehood point to three principles:\n\nThe three unifying principles of the \"Jewish Peoplehood\" theory:\n\n\nIn combination, these three principles imbue the Peoplehood concept with coherence and offer an added value to organizations that wish to create programs “that build Jewish Peoplehood” in a sustainable and measurable way.\n\nThere are several variants of the communitarian position among intellectuals writing about Jewish Peoplehood. The common denominator is the desire to find common ground upon which connections between Jews are built.\n\nThe four distinct positions regarding Jewish Peoplehood:\n\n\nFor some critics, Jewish Peoplehood is still an amorphous and abstract concept that presents an optional ideological approach towards the Jewish collective. Others wonder if it is too weak a foundation on which to base Jewish collective identity, especially since the vision of Peoplehood is not predicated on having any kind of religious or spiritual identity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17732279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17732279", "title": "Karin Pouw", "text": "Karin Pouw\n\nKarin Pouw is a French-born American official of the Church of Scientology International. Since 1993, she has been the Director of Public Affairs, representing the Church as its international spokesperson. In 2000 the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that she was a member of the Church of Scientology's Office of Special Affairs (OSA).\n\nPouw is a spokeswoman for the Church of Scientology, and the Director of Public Affairs for Church of Scientology International. In 2000 the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that she was a member of the Church of Scientology's Office of Special Affairs (OSA), which she said functions as a \"public affairs office\". In 1997 she was a public affairs officer for the Church of Scientology. She resides in Los Angeles, California.\n\nPouw has spoken out against activists and former Scientologists who publicly criticize Scientology. When Carnegie Mellon University professor David S. Touretzky spoke to the press about the Scientology-affiliated organization Applied Scholastics, Pouw said: \"He is discredited in the field that he's trying to comment on. He is a specialist in rat brains.\" Scientology critic Arnaldo Lerma told \"The Washington Post\" that he left the Church of Scientology because he fell in love with one of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard's daughters, but Pouw said Lerma \"left the Church because he could not maintain the ethical standards required of Scientologists\". She has also questioned why former Scientologist Lawrence Wollersheim's organization Fight Against Coercive Tactics Network (FACTnet) should have non-profit, tax-exempt status. \"Wollersheim has been trying to con the church and the general public for 20 years. We recognized him for what he is and expelled him from the church. Now the law has finally caught up with him,\" she said after United States Marshals seized computers and documents critical of Scientology from Wollersheim's home after Scientology officials alleged that he was posting copyrighted material to the Internet.\n\nPouw issued a 15-page statement to the press in response to the January 2008 publication of Andrew Morton's unauthorized biography of Tom Cruise, \"\". Pouw called the book a \"bigoted defamatory assault replete with lies\". Her statement about the book prompted Jenna Miscavige Hill, the niece of Scientology's leader David Miscavige, to publicly criticize Scientology and its practice of disconnection. Hill's written response was an open letter addressed to Pouw which was posted to the Internet, in which she stated: \"I am absolutely shocked at how vehemently you insist upon not only denying the truths that have been stated about the church in that biography, but then take it a step further and tell outright lies.\" Hill countered Pouw's denial of Scientology's practice of disconnection, saying: \"As you well know, my parents officially left the church when I was 16 in 2000 ... Not only was I not allowed to speak to them, I was not allowed to answer a phone for well over a year, in case it was them calling me.\" In response, Pouw told the \"Agence France-Presse\": \"The church stands by its statement of 14 January. The church does not respond to newsgroup postings.\"\n\nPouw has commented on the actions of the group Anonymous against the Church of Scientology as part of their movement Project Chanology. During Project Chanology's denial-of-service attacks on Church of Scientology websites in late January 2008, Pouw asserted to the \"Los Angeles Times\" that their websites \"have been and are online\". \"These people are posing extremely serious death threats to our people. We are talking about religious hatred and bigotry,\" said Pouw in an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\". She said that Scientology sees the Internet as a useful medium of communication and that it is \"concentrating on using the Internet as a resource for promoting its message and mission in this world, not as a ground for litigation\".\n\nIn July 2010 the Church of Scientology International publicized a \"Scientology Newsroom\" website tailored for members of the media; Pouw was one of four international representatives for Scientology listed as \"Spokespersons\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9714669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9714669", "title": "Katalonan", "text": "Katalonan\n\nA Katalonan (also spelled Catalonan, Catalona; \"Catulunan\" in Kapampangan) is a priest or priestess in the indigenous religions of the Tagalog and Kapampangan people. Spanish friars and missionaries also called them anitero (male) and anitera (female). They are the Central to Southern Luzon equivalent of the Visayan Babaylan. They safeguard the dambana, along with religious practices, of a community called barangay.\n\nAccording to Jaime Veneracion, catalonan incorporates the root “talon” which in ancient Tagalog meant forest. Other scholars believed that the origin of the word catalonan is from its root word “talo” which according to them is a Tagalog word originally means \"to converse\", thus the word catalonan literally means someone who converse or communicate with the spirits (anito). According to Blumentritt an old Tagalog word “tarotaro” is a term describing the catalonas while possessed by the spirits (anito). In some Malayo-Polynesian languages such as Tahitian “tarotaro” means ‘to pray’, while in Rapanui it means ‘a malediction or curse’. In Samoan “talo or talotalo” means ‘a prayer or to pray’.\n\nLinguist Malcolm Mintz, however, offers a different etymology. He determines that the Tagalog root word is “tulong” which means to help. Some writers such as William Henry Scott and Luciano P. R. Santiago favoured Mintz suggestion and used the term catolonan (which is actually a Pampangan term) to refer to the priests and priestesses of the Tagalogs instead of catalona or catalonan. Some scholars proposed the Sanskrit word “taruna” which means juvenile youth as the origin of the Tagalog catalona, however it was disregard by majority since the word itself has no spiritual or religious significance. Also most scholars were uncertain if catalona was the correct spelling, since they can’t find any etymological significance to the word catalona compared to catalonan, which is open to several possible connotations, for they assumed that catalona or catalonan is a word indigenous to the Tagalogs. Most scholars and some historians believed that catalonan, not catalona, is the correct spelling of the term; they premised that unlike Spanish, the indigenous languages of the Philippines have neither gendered pronouns, nor suffixes to denote sex. In this regard the Spaniard tends to Hispanicise and then assimilate some native signifiers. The Hispanic need to have gendered-specific terms meant that the indigenous signifiers were gendered with the dropping of the final ‘n’ from catalonan (catalona) the same with the addition of an ‘a’ to baylan (baylana) or babaylan (babaylana).\n\nAmong the people of the island of Nias, Indonesia, “kataruna” were mediums or diviners which predominantly female just like catalona their Tagalog counterpart. However unlike the latter, katarunas themselves do not have the function of a priest or priestess and are considered inferior to “ere” the actual priests and priestesses. \n\nAccording to William Henry Scott (Barangay: Sixteenth-Century Philippines Culture and Society) a catalona could be of either sex, or male transvestites (bayoguin), but were usually women from prominent families who were wealthy in their own right. According to Luciano P. R. Santiago (To Love and to Suffer) as remuneration for their services they received a good part of the offerings of food, wine, clothing, and gold, the quality and quantity of which depended on the social status of the supplicant. Thus, the catalonas filled a very prestigious as well as lucrative role in society. The catalonas came to their calling through training and kinship with other catalonas, in some instances by a mysterious illness such as a seizure from which then they fully recovered. The younger functionaries trained by apprenticeship to a senior catalona who was usually a relative or friend whom they succeeded upon death. The catalona ancestors were worshipped more assiduously than others and the images which represented them were the ones made of wood from hollowed trees or gold or other precious materials. \n\nThe catalonas performed public ceremonies for community prosperity, fertility, or seasonable weather as well as private services to diagnose and cure ailments. They were respected for these functions but they were also feared sorcerers able to work black magic. Their numbers too were large enough to put them in competition with one another. Individual success was attributed to the power of the deities with whom they identified, and who took possession of them in their frenzied dancing. The Tagalog word “olak” according to Ferdinand Blumentritt is a term for the trembling of the whole body of the catalona, when she becomes possessed by the devil (anito). As spirit mediums, they conducted séances during which they spoke with the voice of spirits (anito), assisted by an alagar (alagad, personal attendant) to carry on the dialogue with the supernatural, or sent their own kaluluwa (soul) to seek lost souls. In this state of trance, the catalona was called “tarotaro” [literally meaning voices], for it was believed that the ancestral spirits had entered her body and were speaking from inside her. According to Blumentritt “tarotaro” is a tagalong term describing the katalonas while possessed by the spirits, in this state, they cried tarotaro. When a catalona held the gift of prophecy, she was named masidhi (the fervent one).\n\nDuring the Spanish colonization of the Philippines some catalonas converted and embrace Christianity while others tried to resist it. An account of the conversion of catalonas was thus provided by a Spanish priest named Pedro Chirino (1604), he narrated that a blind catalona named Diego Magsanga who along with his wife (who was said to be a skilled midwife) converted to Christianity. After he was baptized in the name Diego he became a faithful assistant of the friars in expanding Christianity in Silang, Cavite. This former catalona contributed a lot in teaching children and adults catechism (Doctrina Christiana). Chirino also reported that a lot of people followed this former catalona and the Jesuits can't even surpassed him when it comes to the teachings of the Church and the diligence of teaching his brethren, although he was not a priest, the likely role the Spanish priest gave him in the church is that of a laity or hermano.\n\nChirino also mentioned another male catalona who together with a group of catalonas he was leading was convinced by a Jesuit friar Francisco Almerique to be converted to Christianity. Chirino noted that this catalona wore his hair long (which is unusual for Tagalog men) and he braids it to signify his priesthood. Before he was baptized, in front of people, he cut his hair as a sign that the power of the anito has been broken. \n\nSome catalonas however tried to resist Christianity, such as the so called “The Band of Worthless Women” in San Juan del Monte de Taytay (now part of Rizal Province). It was led by a female catalona who was related to the most prominent families of the village. In defiance of the missionaries, the dominant catalona, who possessed the gold anito, continued to perform healing rituals together with her assistants. She claimed that her anito is friends with the Catholic saints. When found out, she refused to give up her idol by concealing it ingeniously in an old bamboo pole in her house. Only after several attempts to look into every hole and corner of the house did the zealous missionary succeed in finding the coveted anito. The demon (anito) was said to be insulted and hurt at this trick, not being able to wreak any other vengeance, he began (accompanied by many other spirits) the following night to torment the poor catalona with visions and cruel threats. Already undeceived as to the weakness of her idol, she sought for conversion, and, hating the demon, begged for mercy. With the help of a cross, which was given her as a defence, and although the terror continued, the threats were not put into execution; and finally the demon abandoned her as she had him. On one of the feast days, all the errors were publicly reputed in the church, and the catalonas remained convinced, repentant and reconciled by the authority of the bishop. They all betook themselves to a place where, removed from temptations, they could relapse into their evil ways. They were placed in charge of devout and Christian persons, in whose company they led Christian and exemplary lives. \n\nThe Katalonan are the Tagalog equivalent of the Visayan Babaylan. \n\nAlthough many modern Filipinos mistakenly refer to any priest or priestess of the animistic pre-Hispanic Filipino religions as Babaylan, writer Nick Joaquin and historian William Henry Scott remind modern Filipinos that the independent cultural evolution of each Filipino ethnic group should be respected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9552518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9552518", "title": "La Nation française", "text": "La Nation française\n\nLa Nation française (\"The French Nation\") was a French monarchist weekly magazine influenced by Charles Maurras, the founder of the Action française movement. It was founded in 1955 as an offshoot of \"Aspects de la France\", another monarchist review founded in June 1947 by Maurice Pujo and Georges Calzant, former members of the Action Française who continued to support the nationalist monarchist current. Directed by journalist Pierre Boutang, others writers include: Jean de La Varende, Antoine Blondin, Roger Nimier, Philippe Ariès or Gabriel Matzneff. \"La Nation française\" supported Henri of Orléans, \"count of Paris.\" After having defended \"French Algeria\" during the Algerian War (1954–62), it dissolved itself, on disagreements in particular concerning Boutang's \"compromission\" with Charles de Gaulle. The magazine ceased publication in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "1175903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1175903", "title": "Lalita Sahasranama", "text": "Lalita Sahasranama\n\nLalita Sahasranama (IAST: lalitāsahasranāma) is a text from Brahmanda Purana. It is a sacred text of the Hindu worshippers of Goddess Lalita Devi, considered to be a manifestation of the Divine Mother (Shakti) or Goddess Durga. Etymologically, \"Lalitha\" means \"She Who Plays\". In the root form (\"vyutpatti\"), the word \"Lalitha\" means \"spontaneous\" from which the meaning \"easy\" is derived and implicitly extends to \"play\".\n\n\"Lalita Sahasranamam\" contains the thousand names of the Hindu mother goddess Lalita. The names are organized as hymns (\"stotras\"). It is the only \"sahasranama\" that does not repeat a single name. Further, in order to maintain the meter, \"sahasranama\"s generally use the artifice of adding words like tu, api, ca, and hi, which are conjunctions that do not necessarily add to the meaning of the name except in cases of interpretation. The \"Lalita Sahasranama\" does not use any such auxiliary conjunctions and is unique in being an enumeration of holy names that meets the metrical, poetical and mystic requirements of a \"sahasranama\" by their order throughout the text.\n\n\"Lalita Sahasranama\" begins by calling the goddess \"Shri Mata\" (Revered Mother), \"Shri Maharajni\" (Revered Empress) and \"Shrimat Simhasaneshwari\" (The goddess in the most revered throne). In verses 2 and 3 of the \"Sahasranama\" she is described as a \"Udayatbhanu Sahasrabha\" (the one who is as bright as the rays of thousand rising suns), \"Chaturbahu Samanvita\" (the one who has four hands) and \"Ragasvarupa Pashadhya\" (the one who is the embodiment of love and the one who is holding the rope). \"Chidagnikunda Sambhuta\" (one who was born from the altar of the fire of consciousness) and \"Devakarya Samudyata\" (one who manifested Herself for fulfilling the objects of the \"devas\") are among other names mentioned in the \"sahasranama\".\n\n\"Lalitha sahasranama\" is said to have been composed by eight vaag devis (vaag dhevathas) upon the command of Lalitha. These vaag devis are Vasini, Kameshwari, Aruna, Vimala, Jayinee, Modhinee, Sarveshwari, Koulini. The sahasranama says that \"One can worship Lalitha only if she wishes us to do so\". The text is a dialogue between Hayagriva (an avatar of Mahavishnu) and sage Agastya. The temple at Thirumeyachur, near Kumbakonam, is said to be where Agastya was initiated into this sahasranama. An alternative version is that the Upanishad Bramham Mutt at Kanchipuram is where this initiation happened.\n\nThis sahasranama is held as a sacred text for the worship of the \"Divine Mother\", Lalita, and is used in the worship of Durga, Parvati, Kali, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Bhagavathi, etc. A principal text of Shakti worshipers, it names her various attributes, and these names are organized in the form of a hymn. This sahasranama is used in various modes for the worship of the Divine Mother. Some of the modes of worship are parayana (Recitations), archana, homa etc.\n\nThis stotra (hymn of praise) occurs in the Brahmanda Purana (history of the universe) in the chapter of discussion between Hayagreeva and Agasthya. Hayagreeva is an incarnation of Vishnu with the head of a horse who is held to be the storehouse of knowledge. Agasthya is one of the sages of yore and one of the stars of the constellation Saptarishi (Ursa major). At the request of Agasthya, Hayagreeva is said to have taught him the thousand holiest names of Lalita. This has been conveyed to us by the sage Maharishi Vyasa. \"Lalita Sahasranama\" is the only sahasranama composed by vagdevatas under Lalita's direction. All the other sahasranamas are said to have been passed on the writings by Maharishi Vyasa. Note that even before Vyasa many worshipped the Devas with Sahasranamas. Vyasa did not compose sahasranams, but only popularized them through his writings.\n\nParamashiva is one of the trinity of Hindu pantheons, in charge of moksha (layam). He married Sati, the daughter of Daksha. Daksha and Shiva did not get along and consequently Daksha did not invite Shiva for one of the great fire sacrifices that he conducted. However Sati went to attend that function in spite of Shiva’s protest. Daksha insulted her husband and she jumped into the fire and ended her life. Consequently, at the behest of Shiva, Daksha was killed and later resurrected with a goat’s head. This incident upset Paramashiva and he entered into deep meditation. Sati reincarnated as daughter of Himavat, king of the mountains, and his wife, Mena. Naturally, Pārvatī sought and received Shiva as her husband.\n\nThe devas faced an enemy in Tarakasura who had a boon that he could be killed only by a son of Shiva and Parvati. So, to rouse Shiva from his deep meditation, the devas deputed Kamadeva, the God of love who shot his flower arrows at Shiva. Shiva ended his meditation and in anger for being disturbed, opened his third eye which reduced the God of love to ashes. The Devas and Rati, the wife of Kamadeva requested Shiva to give life to her husband Heeding their request Paramashiva stared at the ashes of Manmatha. From the ashes emanated Bhandasura, who made all the world impotent and ruled from the city called Shonita pura. He started troubling the devas. The devas then sought the advice of Sage Narada who advised them to conduct a fire sacrifice. From the fire rose Tripura Sundari.\n\nIn Lalitha Sahasranama, the beginning of the text describes the formless Lalitha with an explicit female form and along with an equally charming consort. This divine couple is named as Kameshwari and Kameswara. Kameswari is described as extremely beautiful, having dark thick long hair with the scent of champaka, ashoka and punnaga flowers. She had the musk tilaka on her forehead, eyelids which appeared as if they were the gate of the house of the God of love, and having eyes like fish playing in the lake of her face. She had a nose with studs that shone more than the stars, ears with the sun and moon as studs, cheeks which were like the mirror of Padmaraga, beautiful rows of white teeth, and she was chewing thambula with camphor. She had a voice sweeter than the sound emanating from veena of Saraswati, and having such a beautiful smile that Kameswara himself could not take his eyes off her. She was wearing a mangala sutra and necklaces, with beautiful breasts which were capable of buying the invaluable love of Kameswara, having wisps of beautiful hair raising from her belly, her stomach having three pretty folds, and she was wearing red silk tied with a string with red bells. She had thighs which steal the heart of Kameswara, knees which looked like crowns made of precious gems, voluptuous legs, upper part of the feet resembling the backs of tortoises, feet which resembled lamps made of gems which could dispel worries from the mind of devotees and a body with the golden red color. She was given in marriage to Kameswara and made to stay in Nagara at the top of Maha Meru Mountain.\n\nNagara has 25 streets circling it, made of iron, steel, copper, and lead. An alloy made of five metals, silver, gold, the white stone (pushpa raga), the red stone (padmaraga), onyx, diamond, vaidurya, indranila (topaz), pearl, marakatha, coral, nine gems and a mixture of gems and precious stones. In the eighth street is a forest of kadambas. This is presided by Syamala. On the fifteenth street lives the eight directional guardian deities. In the sixteenth lives Varahi (alias Dandini) who was her commander in chief. Here Syamala also has a house. In the seventeenth street live the different Yoginis. In the eighteenth street lives Maha Vishnu. In the nineteenth street lives Esana, in the twentieth Tara Devi, twenty first Varuni, the twenty second Kurukulla who presides over the fort of pride, twenty third Marthanda Bhairava, twenty fourth the moon and twenty fifth Manmatha presiding over the forest of love.\n\nIn the center of Nagara is the Maha Padma Vana (the great lotus forest) and within it the Chintamani Griha (The house of holy thought), in the north east is the Chid agni kunda and on both sides of its eastern gate are the houses of Manthrini and Dhandini. On its four gates stand the Chaduramnaya gods for watch and ward. Within it is the chakra. In the center of the Chakra on the throne of Pancha brahmas on the Bindu Peeta (dot plank) called sarvanandamaya (universal happiness) sits Maha Tripura Sundari. In the chakra are the following decorations viz., the square called Trilokya mohanam (most beautiful in the three worlds), The sixteen petaled lotus called Sarvasa paripoorakam (fulfill-er of all desires), the eight petaled lotus called Sarvasamksopanam (the all cleanser), the sixteen cornered figure called Sarva sowbagyam (all luck), the external ten cornered figure called Sarvartha sadhakam (giver of all assets), the internal ten cornered figure called Sarva raksha karam (All protector), the eight cornered figure called Sarva roga haram (cure of all diseases), the triangle called Sarva siddhi pradam (giver of all powers) and the dot called Sarvananda mayam (all pleasures).\n\nThe \"devas\" prayed to her to kill Bhandasura. When she started for the war with Bandasura, she was accompanied by the powers called anima, mahima, Brahmi, Kaumari, Vaishnavi, Varahi, Mahendri, Chamundi, Maha Lakshmi, Nitya Devaths and Avarna Devathas who occupy the chakra. While Sampatkari was the captain of the elephant regiment, Aswarooda was the captain of the cavalry. The army was commanded by Dhandini riding on the chariot called Giri Chakra assisted by Manthrini riding on the chariot called Geya Chakra. Jwala malini protected the army by creating a fire ring around it. Para Shakthi rode in the center on the chariot of Chakra. Nithya destroyed a large chunk of Bandasura’s armies, Bala killed the son of Bandasura, and Manthrini and Dhandini killed his brothers called Vishanga and Vishukra. When the asuras created a blockade for the marching army, Tripura sundari created Ganesha by a mere glance of Kameshwara’s face remove the blockade. Then Bandasura created the asuras called Hiranyaksha, Hiranya Kasipu and Ravana. The devi created the ten avatars of Vishnu and destroyed them. She killed all his army using Paashupathastra and killed him with Kameshwarasthra. The gods then praised her. She then recreated Manmatha for the good of the world. This story is contained in the first 84 names of the first 34 slokas of \"Lalitha sahasranama\". All together it contains one thousand names. This is also called the \"Rahasya Nama Sahasra\" (the thousand secret names). Reading it, meditating on the meaning of the names would lead to the fulfillment of all the wishes of the devotees.\n\nThe slokas are organized in such a way that Devi is described from \"Head to Feet\" (Kesadhi Padham).There are basically five works of God (\"pancha krtyam\"). They are creation (\"srishti\"), protection (\"sthiti\"), destruction (\"samhAram\"), hiding (\"thirOdhAnam\") and blessing (\"anugraham\"). Devi herself has been described as \"pancha krtya parAyanA\" in the \"sloka\" and the five tasks are described as follows:\n\nThis means Devi is the aspect of Brahma, while creating \"srishti\", aspect of Vishnu while sustaining \"sthiti\", aspect of Rudra during dissolution \"samhara\", aspect of Ishwara while concealing ”thirodana”, and aspect of Sadashiva while blessing.\n\nThese five entities (Brahmma, Vishnu, Rudra, Isvara and Sadashiva) are known as \"pancha-brahma\" and also “pancha-pretha”. Lalitha has designated the five functions to these brahman(s). Sometimes, Devi will take away the life from these five brahmam and make them inactive, performing all the five tasks herself. At that time they will be called \"pancha pretam\" that is lifeless bodies.\n\nNow the first three slokas are:\nSrimata, the (great mother) Srishti; Sri Maharajni the (great ruler) Sthithi; Srimat Simhasaneswari the (one who sits on the \"simhasanam\" and manages) Samharam. Here there is no direct reference to samharam. Managing here includes creating balance between birth and death.\n\nThe rest of the slokas cover thirodhanam and anugraham.\n\nNow the next namas - \"chidhagnikunda sambhutha devakarya samudhyatha\" tells us that devi arose from the fire of knowledge to help devas in their task (war against asuras - bhandasura).\n\nFrom the namAa- Udhyath bhanu sahasraba till sinjanamani manjeera manditha sree padambuja, all her parts like her face, fore head, eyes, mouth, tongue, voice, hands, hip, legs have been described.\n\nThereafter, Devi's place (Chintamani gruham), her war against bandasura, kundalini shakti, her properties (such as who can reach her and who cannot, etc.) have been described.\n\nThe General picture of the Goddess depicts a Parrot and a Sugarcane stick with her. Sugarcane represents the sweetness of her mind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24696377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24696377", "title": "List of Buddhist architecture in China", "text": "List of Buddhist architecture in China\n\nBuddhist temples, monasteries, pagodas, grottoes, archaeological sites and colossal statues in China. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n----\n"}
{"id": "18292222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18292222", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Serbia", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Serbia\n\nThe Catholic Church in Serbia consists of several Latin Catholic and one Eastern Catholic jurisdictions. The Latin Catholic hierarchy consists of one ecclesiastical province with archdiocese centered in national capital city of Belgrade, with two suffragan dioceses, in Subotica and Zrenjanin. Also, there is the separate Diocese of Syrmia, suffragan to the Archdiocese of Đakovo-Osijek (metropolitan province centered in Croatia). The Apostolic Administration of Prizren, centered in Prizren, is exempt and directly subjected to the Holy See. The only Eastern Catholic jurisdiction is Apostolic Exarchate of Serbia of the Byzantine Rite. There is also an Apostolic Nunciature as papal diplomatic representation in Serbia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53806246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53806246", "title": "List of churches on the Isle of Man", "text": "List of churches on the Isle of Man\n\nThe following is a list of churches in the Isle of Man.\n\nThe island has an estimated 94 active churches for 84,497 inhabitants, a ratio of one church for every 899 people.\n"}
{"id": "1030331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030331", "title": "List of solar deities", "text": "List of solar deities\n\nA solar deity is a god or goddess who represents the Sun, or an aspect of it, usually by its perceived potywer and strength. Solar deities and sun worship can be found throughout most of recorded history in various forms. The following is a list of solar deities:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4616794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616794", "title": "Mast (Sufism)", "text": "Mast (Sufism)\n\nA mast (pronounced \"must\"), in Sufi philosophy, is a person who is overwhelmed with love for God, accompanied with external disorientation resembling intoxication. The word was coined by Meher Baba and originates from the Sufi term mast-Allah meaning \"intoxicated with God\" from Persian mast, literally meaning \"intoxicated.\" Another interpretation of its origin is that it is derived from \"masti\", a Persian word meaning \"overpowered.\" \n\nAccording to Meher Baba, a mast is one who is entranced or spellbound by internal spiritual experiences and ecstasies, who cannot function outwardly in an ordinary way, and may appear mad to a casual outside observer. Such experiences, according to Meher Baba, stem from the station of a mast's consciousness (his or her state of consciousness) on inner planes of involution. In \"The Wayfarers: Meher Baba With the God-Intoxicated,\" British medical doctor William Donkin documents at length Meher Baba's contacts with masts throughout South Asia (primarily Iran, India, and Pakistan). The introduction, written by Meher Baba, explains their unique state and their outward characteristics. He carefully distinguishes the mast state from madness and explains that in the case of the mad person, the mind is sped up, while in the case of the mast it is slowed down. Meher Baba made a Sufi analogy (reflecting the poetry of Hafez) to the drunkenness of one intoxicated with wine, but in this case, the wine is the love of God. Meher Baba contacted thousands of masts all over India, Pakistan, and Iran, saying that he was freeing them from enchantment and helping them to continue on the spiritual path and to be of inward service to humanity.\n\nMasts can be in varying degrees of the states of \"salik\" or \"majzoob\". \"Salik\" means more in touch with outward surroundings, meaning grounded and ordinary. \"Majzoob\" refers to that state of being immersed in the inner plane and divorced from the outside world.\n\n"}
{"id": "18430873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18430873", "title": "Mother of the Church", "text": "Mother of the Church\n\nIn Roman Catholic Mariology, Mother of the Church (in Latin Mater Ecclesiae) is a title, officially given to Mary during the Second Vatican Council by Pope Paul VI. The title was first used in the 4th century by Saint Ambrose of Milan, as rediscovered by Hugo Rahner.\n\nThe title \"Mother of the Church\" was used by Pope Benedict XIV in 1748 and then by Pope Leo XIII in 1885. The title was also used by Pope John Paul II and is also found in the Catechism of the Catholic Church.\n\nPope John Paul II stated that overall the title indicates the Blessed Virgin Mary's maternity of Christ's faithful, as deriving from her maternity of Christ in that \"Mary is present in the Church as the Mother of Christ, and at the same time as that Mother whom Christ, in the mystery of the Redemption, gave to humanity in the person of the Apostle John [cf. John 19:27]. Thus, in her new motherhood in the Spirit, Mary embraces each and every one in the Church, and embraces each and every one through the Church.\"\n\nThe Church has traditionally portrayed the Blessed Virgin Mary together with the apostles and disciples gathered at that first Pentecost, joined in prayer with the first members of the Church. The title, \"Mater Ecclesiae\" is found in the writings of Berengaud, bishop of Treves (d. 1125). In the 1895 encyclical \"Adjutricem populi\" (Helper of the People) Pope Leo XIII wrote, \"She is invoked as Mother of the Church and the teacher and Queen of the Apostles\". Following the title's usage by Leo XIII, it was later used many times in the teachings of John XXIII and Paul VI, John Paul II and Benedict XVI.\n\nThe use of the \"Mater Ecclesiae\" title to the Virgin Mary goes back to Ambrose of Milan in the 4th century, but this was not known until its 1944 rediscovery by Hugo Rahner. Rahner's Mariology, following Ambrose, sees Mary in her role within the Church. His interpretation, based solely on Ambrose and the early Fathers, greatly influenced Vatican II and Pope Paul VI, who, quoting Ambrose, declared Mary the \"mother of the Church\".\n\nPope Paul VI pronounced the title at the closing of the third phase of the council. A former archbishop of Milan, Paul VI used similar language to that of Saint Ambrose of Milan, calling Mary \"Model of the Church\" in light of her faith, love and complete unity with Christ and \"Mother of the Church\" because she gave birth to Christ.\n\nPaul VI made the pronouncement of the title Mother of the Church during his speech upon the closing of the third session of the Second Vatican Council on November 21, 1964: \"For the glory of the Virgin and our consolation, we proclaim Mary the Most Holy Mother of the Church, that is, the Mother of the whole People of God, both the faithful and the pastors.\"\n\nIn \"Redemptoris Mater\" Pope John Paul II referred to Paul VI's \"Credo of the People of God\" as a reaffirmation of the statement that Mary is the \"mother of the entire Christian people, both faithful and pastors\" and wrote that the Credo \"restated this truth in an even more forceful way\":\n\nPope Benedict XVI also referred to the \"Credo\" of Paul VI and stated that it sums up all of the scriptural texts that relate to the matter.\n\nIn 1980, during the UNIV Forum, an annual gathering of university students from all over the world held in Rome during Holy Week and born by inspiration of Saint Josemaría Escrivá, founder of Opus Dei, a young man taking part in the gathering told Pope John Paul II that he was not able to find an image of Our Lady in St. Peter's Square, heart of Christendom. In fact, although there are 162 statues of saints, none of them depict the Mother of God. The Pope answered immediately: \"then we should finish the square\". When Msgr. Álvaro del Portillo, successor of Saint Josemaría Escrivá, heard this story, he asked the Spanish architect Javier Cotelo to find a good solution for the image. In July 1980 and January 1981, Cotelo submitted to the Pope a proposal of using one of the windows of the building located between St. Peter's Square and the Cortile di San Damaso, since from there the image could be seen from any part of the square. The Pope accepted the suggestion and on December 7, 1981 a mosaic of \"Maria Mater Ecclesiae\" -Our Lady, Mother of the Church- was installed following Cotelo's proposal. On the following day, feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Pope blessed the mosaic from his window, and therefore this mosaic is considered to be last stone of St. Peter's Square. Moreover, this mosaic overlooking the square follows the 1981 assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II's life. It's also a tribute to the intercession of Our Lady in saving his life.\n\nIn 1987, he repeated this title \"Mother of the Church\" in his encyclical \"Redemptoris Mater\" and at a general audience on September 17, 1997.\n\nWith regard to the title \"Mother of the Church\", John Paul used \"Redemptoris Mater\" as an opportunity to explain how the Blessed Virgin Mary's maternity of Christ's faithful derives from her maternity of Christ, as well as how Mary serves as a \"type\", or model, of the Church as a whole.\n\nOn September 17, 1997, Pope John Paul II devoted a Wednesday general audience to the title \"Mother of the Church\" with regard to its application to the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nPope Benedict XVI addresses the issue, why Roman Catholic Mariology is related to ecclesiology, the teaching about the Church. On first sight, he argues, it may seem accidental, that the Council moved Mariology into ecclesiology. This relation helps to understand what \"Church\" really is. The theologian Hugo Rahner showed that Mariology was originally ecclesiology. The Church is like Mary.\n\nThe Church is virgin and mother, she is immaculate and carries the burdens of history. She suffers and she is assumed into heaven. Slowly she learns, that Mary is her mirror, that she is a person in Mary. Mary on the other hand is not an isolated individual, who rests in herself. She is carrying the mystery of the Church.\n\nIn 2018, Pope Francis decreed that the Memorial of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of the Church be inserted into the Roman Calendar on the Monday after Pentecost (also known as Whit Monday) and to be celebrated every year.\nThe decree was signed on 11 February 2018, the memorial of Our Lady of Lourdes, at the 160th anniversary of the Lourdes apparitions. It was issued on 3 March 2018.\n\nMother of perpetual sorrow.\n"}
{"id": "19935351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19935351", "title": "Obi divination", "text": "Obi divination\n\nObi divination is a system of divination used in the traditional Yoruba religion and in Yoruba-derived Afro-American religions. In Yorubaland, it uses palm or kola nuts; in Latin America and the Caribbean it uses four pieces of coconut.\n"}
{"id": "183907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183907", "title": "Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills", "text": "Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills\n\nParadise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills is a 1996 American documentary film directed, produced and edited by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky about the trials of the West Memphis Three, three teenage boys accused of the May 1993 murders and sexual mutilation of three prepubescent boys as a part of an alleged satanic ritual in West Memphis, Arkansas.\n\nThe film uses the music of Metallica instead of an original soundtrack, marking the first time that the band authorized their music to be used in a film. It was well received by critics, and won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Informational Programming. It was followed by two sequels, also made by Berlinger and Sinofsky, which followed the evolution of the case through the years: \"\" in 2000, and \"\" in 2011.\n\nThe film documents the events from the arrests of Misskelley, Echols and Baldwin for the murders of Christopher Byers, Michael Moore and Stevie Branch. Their naked and hogtied bodies were discovered in a ditch in a wooded area of West Memphis, Arkansas, known as \"Robin Hood Hills\".\n\nFilmmakers Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky interview numerous people connected with the case, including the parents of the victims, the parents of the accused, members of the West Memphis Police Department (WMPD) and all the defendants involved in the trial. Berlinger and Sinofsky are not filmed themselves, and the dialogue is provided by the interviewee, rather than using a \"Q & A\" format.\n\nThe film starts with an introduction to the case, before moving on to the arrests of the three teenagers. Much of the community, including the detectives and the victims' parents believe the murders were committed by the teenagers as part of a Satanic ritual. The community is shown to be politically conservative and strongly Evangelical Christian. Because Misskelley had provided police with a confession, his trial is separated from that of Damien and Jason, and is covered in the first half of the film.\n\nThe first trial to be covered in the film is that of Misskelley, a trial which was severed from those of Echols and Baldwin since it was Misskelley who submitted a confession. Emphasis is placed on the fact that there is a strong possibility that the confession was coerced. Interviews are conducted with Misskelley himself, his family and friends, and his attorney Dan Stidham. Misskelley is sentenced to life in prison.\n\nPart two of the film documents the trials of Echols and Baldwin. Like the coverage of Misskelley's trial, there are interviews with both defendants, their attorneys and their families. The families of the victims also share their views.\n\nDuring the course of filming, John Mark Byers, the stepfather of one of the victims (Christopher Byers), gives the filmmakers a knife which has blood in the hinge. The filmmakers turn the knife over to police, who examine it; the DNA is similar to that of Mark Byers and Christopher, but the evidence is nonetheless inconclusive since the DNA evidence produced was fragmented and can not provide concrete links.\n\nThe production had 79 filming days over a 10-month period, starting in the weeks after the murders through the trials and convictions, at the actual Arkansas locations. The movie marks the first time Metallica allowed their music to be used in a movie. A decade later the directors made \"Some Kind of Monster\" about Metallica.\n\nThe movie was well received by critics, including Siskel and Ebert praising the movie. The film was followed by two sequels. First \"\" (2000), which suggests that further evidence was missed or suppressed and attempts to prove Echols' innocence. Followed by \"\" (2011), which was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.\n\nFollowing a successful decision in 2010 by the Arkansas Supreme Court regarding recently uncovered DNA evidence, the West Memphis Three reached a deal with prosecutors. On August 19, 2011, they entered Alford pleas, which allow them to assert their innocence and were sentenced to time served, effectively freeing them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16253432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16253432", "title": "Pericchedi", "text": "Pericchedi\n\nThe Pericchedis were an ancient ruling clan in Andhra and are ancestors of the Pusapati royal family. Pericchedis built Bezawada (Modern Vijayawada) off the river Krishna in 626 and another capital in Kollipaka establishing themselves for nine centuries there. They were Kshatriyas of the Suryavanshi sect. They obtained the title of Gajapathi, after the battle of Nandapur.\nParicchedis were staunch patrons of Hindu Dharma in contrast to the Chalukyas, who initially were patrons of Jainism.\n\nThe ancient rulers were:\n\nThe family name was changed to Pusapati after moving to the coastal region. They founded the city of Vizianagaram, named after Vijay Rama Raju, spelled with a \"Z\" to differentiate it from the Vijayanagar Dynasty in Hampi. They obtained the title of \"Gajapathi\", after the battle of Nandapur, in the Northern Circars in the 16th century.\nIn 1484 Pusapati Rachi Raju wrote \"Vasistha Gotra Kshatriya Sisa Malika.\"\n\nThey, along with the other allies of Vijayanagar were conquered by Sultan Quli, the founder of the Qutub Shahi dynasty of Golkonda but by 1652 the 5th King of the subsequent Pusapati line was made Subahdar of the Northern Circars and they re-established themselves in the Vizagapatnam country. They received \"Gajapathi\" title after defeating the Gajapathi's of Nandapur (Orissa), their former allies and relatives, in the 16th century. In 1827, Maharajah Vijay Rama Gajapati Raju III had several honors conferred on him by the British Government. Lord Northbrook obtained for him the title of His Highness, and had his name enrolled among those of chiefs entitled to return visits from the Viceroy with a 13 gun salute. A daughter was married to His Highness Maharaj Kumar Singh, cousin and heir apparent of H.H. Maharajah of Rewah. In 1848, the Maharaja of Vizianagaram visited Bezawada, the home of his family for so many centuries. His visit is recorded in a Telugu inscription. A descendent of this line Sir P. Vijay Anand Gajapathi Raju inherited the family estate in Benares, married the princess of Kashipur and was a captain of the Indian cricket team in the 1930s.\n\n\nThe other descendants of the Pericchedis were the Alluris (Telugu:అల్లూరి ) of Chintapalli, the Kakarlapudis, who were concentrated in Nakkapalle, Srirampur, Alamanda, and Ramachandrapuram, the Mandapathis of Ponamanda, the Pinnamaraju of Kottakota, the Uppalapatis and the Valivarthis of Pajapalayam Isukapalli's and Nadimpalli's who are concentrated in Krishna district and parts of East Godavari district.\n\n"}
{"id": "2855711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2855711", "title": "Red Pine (author)", "text": "Red Pine (author)\n\nBill Porter (born October 3, 1943) is an American author who translates under the pen-name Red Pine (). He is a translator of Chinese texts, primarily Taoist and Buddhist, including poetry and sūtras. In 2018 he won the American Academy of Arts & Letters Thornton Wilder Prize for translation. \n\nPorter was born in Los Angeles and raised in mountainous Idaho. After serving three years in the U.S. Army (refusing assignment in Vietnam and subsequently being reassigned as a clerk in Germany), he took a degree in anthropology from University of California, Santa Barbara and went on to graduate studies in language (Chinese) and anthropology at Columbia University, but dropped out in 1972 to go to the Fo Kwang Shan Buddhist monastery in Taiwan.\n\nIn the years following, he lived in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Since 1989 he has traveled extensively in China, both as a journalist and on his own. He adopted a Chinese art name, \"Red Pine\" (赤松 \"Chi Song\"), after the legendary Taoist immortal. In 1993, after 22 years in East Asia, he returned to the US. In 1999 and 2000, he taught Buddhism and Taoism at the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas. He now lives in Port Townsend, Washington.\n\nHis book \"Road to Heaven\" prompted Edward A. Burger to seek out and study with Buddhist hermits in the Zhongnan mountains of China and direct the 2005 film \"Amongst White Clouds\".\n\nIn 2009, Copper Canyon Press published his translation of Laozi's \"Tao Te Ching\". One of the most noteworthy aspects of this translation is Porter's use of excerpts from China's vast and rich commentarial tradition.\n\nIn 2012 he published a translation of the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" (\"Lankavatara Sutra: Translation and Commentary.\" Counterpoint, 2012.) It is based on several early Chinese and Sanskrit translations including the Chinese translation made by Guṇabhadra in 443.\n\n2014 brought a re-translation of \"The Mountain Poems of Stonehouse\". Stonehouse was a fourteenth century Zen master who wrote his poems late in life while living alone in a Chinese mountain hut.\n\n\"Yellow River Odyssey\" is an account in photographs and text of Porter's early 1990s travels along the Yellow River from its mouth at the Yellow Sea to its source in the Tibetan Plateau. Along the way, Porter visited historical religious sites related to Confucius, Mencius, Laozi and Zhuang Zhou. The Chinese version was based on 1991 radio scripts for Hong Kong radio station Metro News.\n\n\"The Silk Road: Taking the bus to Pakistan\" details the author's overland journey with his friend Finn Wilcox from Xi'an to Islamabad by bus, train, and plane. It's a first-person account of scenery, artifacts, and people along the northern route of the Silk Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16886185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16886185", "title": "Religion in Costa Rica", "text": "Religion in Costa Rica\n\nRoman Catholicism is the state religion of Costa Rica.\n\nA nationwide survey of religion in Costa Rica, conducted in 2007 by the University of Costa Rica, found that 70.5% of the population identify themselves as Roman Catholics (with 44.9% practicing, 25.6 percent nonpracticing), 13.8% are Evangelical Protestants, 11.3% report that they do not have a religion, and 4.3% declare that they belong to another religion.\n\nLatinobarometro survey conducted in 2017 indicated a decline in the share of Catholics and rise in the share of Protestants and irreligious.\n\nRoman Catholicism is the official state religion according to the 1949 Constitution, which at the same time guarantees freedom of religion. It is the only state in the Americas which established Roman Catholicism as its state religion; other such countries are microstates in Europe: Liechtenstein, Monaco, Vatican City and Malta.\n\nWhile the Catholic church is still the largest church body, the Evangelical Protestants are growing rapidly, in 2013 representing 13.8% of the population. In Latin America, most Protestants are called Evangelicos. Some of the Protestant churches are Methodist, Lutheran, Episcopal, Baptist, and other Protestant groups have significant membership. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) claims more than 35,000 members and has a temple in San Jose that serves as a regional worship center for Costa Rica, Panama, Nicaragua, and Honduras. Buddhism is the largest non-Christian religion with around 100,000 members, mostly amongst the Asian community, but with some converts. There are also approximately 2,500 members of the Jewish faith. Jewish people have an important cultural and social input, and many ministers, deputies, and three Vice Presidents have been Jewish.\n\nAlthough they represent less than 1 percent of the population, Jehovah's Witnesses have a strong presence on the Caribbean coast. Seventh-day Adventists operate a university that attracts students from throughout the Caribbean Basin. The Unification Church maintains it's continental headquarters for Latin America in San Jose.\n\nOther religious groups, including followers of Islam, Taoism, Hare Krishna, Paganism, Wicca, Scientology, Tenrikyo, and the Bahá'í Faith, claim membership throughout the country, with the majority of worshipers residing in the Central Valley (the area of the capital). While there is no general correlation between religion and ethnicity, indigenous peoples are more likely to practice animism than other religions.\n\nArticle 75 of the Costa Rican Constitution states that the \"Catholic, Apostolic, and Roman Religion is the official religion of the Republic.\" That same article provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. The US government found no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "4180022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4180022", "title": "Taoist sexual practices", "text": "Taoist sexual practices\n\nTaoist sexual practices (), literally \"the bedroom arts\", are the ways Taoists may practice sexual activity. These practices are also known as \"Joining Energy\" or \"The Joining of the Essences\". Practitioners believe that by performing these sexual arts, one can stay in good health, and attain longevity or spiritual advancement.\n\nSome Taoist sects during the Han dynasty performed sexual intercourse as a spiritual practice, called \"Héqì\" (合氣], \"Joining Energy\"). The first sexual texts that survive today are those found at the Mawangdui. While Taoism had not yet fully evolved as a philosophy at this time, these texts shared some remarkable similarities with later Tang dynasty texts, such as the Ishinpō (醫心方). The sexual arts arguably reached their climax between the end of the Han dynasty and the end of the Tang dynasty. \n\nAfter 1000 AD, Confucian restraining attitudes towards sexuality became stronger, so that by the beginning of the Qing dynasty in 1644, sex was a taboo topic in public life. These Confucians alleged that the separation of genders in most social activities existed 2,000 years ago, and suppressed the sexual arts. Because of the taboo surrounding sex, there was much censoring done during the Qing in literature, and the sexual arts disappeared in public life. As a result, some of the texts survived only in Japan, and most scholars had no idea that such a different concept of sex existed in early China.\n\nThe basis of all Taoist thinking is that qi (氣) is part of everything in existence. Qi is related to another energetic substance contained in the human body known as jing (精), and once all this has been expended the body dies. Jing can be lost in many ways, but most notably through the loss of body fluids. Taoists may use practices to stimulate/increase and conserve their bodily fluids to great extents. The fluid believed to contain the most Jing is semen. Therefore, Taoists believe in decreasing the frequency of, or totally avoiding, ejaculation in order to conserve life essence.\n\nMany Taoist practitioners link the loss of ejaculatory fluids to the loss of vital life force: where excessive fluid loss results in premature aging, disease, and general fatigue. While some Taoists contend that one should never ejaculate, others provide a specific formula to determine the maximum amount of regular ejaculations in order to maintain health.\n\nThe general idea is to limit the loss of fluids as much as possible to the level of your desired practice. As these sexual practices were passed down over the centuries, some practitioners have given less importance to the limiting of ejaculation. Nevertheless, the \"retention of the semen\" is one of the foundational tenets of Taoist sexual practice.\n\nThere are different methods to control ejaculation prescribed by the Taoists. In order to avoid ejaculation, the man could do one of several things. He could pull out immediately before orgasm, a method which Joseph Needham termed \"coitus conservatus\". A second method involved the man applying pressure on the perineum, thus retaining the sperm. While, if done incorrectly can cause a retrograde ejaculation, the Taoists believed that the jing traveled up into the head and \"nourished the brain.\"\n\nAnother important concept of \"The Joining of the Essences\" was that the union of a man and a woman would result in the creation of jing (精), a type of sexual energy. When in the act of lovemaking, jing would form, and the man could transform some of this jing into qi, and replenish his lifeforce. By having as much sex as possible, men had the opportunity to transform more and more jing, and as a result would see many health benefits.\n\nThe concept of Yin and yang is important in Taoism, and consequently also holds special importance in sex. Yang usually referred to the male sex, whereas Yin could refer to the female sex. Man and Woman were the equivalent of heaven and earth, but became disconnected. Therefore, while heaven and earth are eternal, man and woman suffer a premature death. Every interaction between Yin and Yang had significance. Because of this significance, every position and action in lovemaking had importance. Taoist texts described a large number of special sexual positions that served to cure or prevent illness.\n\nFor Taoists, sex was not just about pleasing the man. The woman also had to be stimulated and pleased in order to benefit from the act of sex. Sex should not happen if one or the other partners desire it more. If sex were performed in this manner, the woman would create more jing, and the man could more easily absorb the jing to increase his own qi. Women were also given a prominent place in the Ishinpō, with the tutor being a woman. One of the reasons women had a great deal of strength in the act of sex was that they walked away undiminished from the act. The woman had the power to bring forth life, and did not have to worry about ejaculation or refractory period.\n\nWomen were often given a position of inferiority in sexual practice. Many of the texts discuss sex from a male point of view, and avoid discussing how sex could benefit women. Men were encouraged to not limit themselves to one woman, and were advised to have sex only with the woman who was beautiful and not yet produced children. While the man had to please the woman sexually, she was still just an object. At numerous points during the Ishinpō, the woman is referred to as the \"enemy\"; this was because the woman could cause him to spill semen and lose vitality. In later sexual texts from the Ming, women had lost all semblance of being human and were referred to as the \"other,\" \"crucible\", or \"stove\" from which to cultivate vitality. The importance of pleasing the woman was also diminished in later texts. The practice was known as (), as a man enters many women without ejaculation.\n\nWomen were also considered to be a means for men to extend men's lives\n"}
{"id": "12189137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12189137", "title": "Theodemocracy", "text": "Theodemocracy\n\nTheodemocracy was a theocratic political system that included elements of democracy. It was theorized by Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement. According to Smith, theodemocracy was meant to be a fusion of traditional republican democratic rights under the United States Constitution with theocratic principles.\n\nSmith described it as a system under which God and the people held the power to rule in righteousness. Smith believed that this would be the form of government that would rule the world upon the Second Coming of Christ. This polity would constitute the \"Kingdom of God\" which was foretold by the prophet Daniel in the Old Testament. Theodemocracy was an influence for the short lived State of Deseret in the American Old West.\n\nEarly Latter Day Saints (Mormons) were typically Jacksonian Democrats and were highly involved in representative republican political processes. According to historian Marvin S. Hill, \"the Latter-day Saints saw the maelstrom of competing faiths and social institutions in the early nineteenth century as evidence of social upheaval and found confirmation in the rioting and violence that characterized Jacksonian America.\" Smith wrote in 1842 that earthly governments \"have failed in all their attempts to promote eternal peace and happiness...[Even the United States] is rent, from center to circumference, with party strife, political intrigues, and sectional interest.\"\n\nSmith's belief was that only a government led by deity could banish the destructiveness of unlimited faction and bring order and happiness to the earth. Mormon Apostle Orson Pratt stated in 1855, the government of God \"is a government of union.\" Smith believed that a theodemocratic polity would be the literal fulfillment of Christ's prayer in the Gospel of Matthew, \"Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.\"\n\nFurther, Smith taught that the Kingdom of God, which he called the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, would hold dominion in the last days over all other kingdoms as foretold in the Book of Daniel. Smith stated in May 1844, \"I calculate to be one of the instruments of setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the world...It will not be by sword or gun that this kingdom will roll on: the power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel.\"\n\nIn 1859, LDS President Brigham Young equated the terms \"republican theocracy\" and \"democratic theocracy\", and expressed his understanding of them when he taught, \"The kingdom that the Almighty will set up in the latter days will have its officers, and those officers will be peace. Every man that officiates in a public capacity will be filled with the Spirit of God, with the light of God, with the power of God, and will understand right from wrong, truth from error, light from darkness, that which tends to life and that which tends to death... They will say... '[T]he Lord does not, neither will we control you in the least in the exercise of your agency. We place the principles of life before you. Do as you please, and we will protect you in your rights...'\"\n\nThe theodemocratic system was to be based on principles extant in the United States Constitution, and held sacred the will of the people and individual rights. Indeed, the United States and the Constitution in particular were revered by Smith and his followers. However, in a theodemocratic system, God was to be the ultimate power and would give law to the people which they would be free to accept or reject, presumably based on republican principles. Somewhat analogous to a federal system within a theodemocracy, sovereignty would reside jointly with the people and with God. Various inconsistencies exist in this framework, such as how humans could resist the laws of an all-powerful God, or how citizens could be assured that the authority of God rather than the humans interpreting His will was being exercised. While Christ would be the \"king of kings\" and \"lord of lords,\" He would only intermittently reside on Earth and the government would largely be left in the hands of mortal men.\n\nYoung explained that a theodemocracy would consist of \"many officers and branches...as there are now to that of the United States.\" It is known that the Council of Fifty, which Smith organized in Nauvoo, Illinois in 1844, was meant to be the central municipal body within such a system. The Council was led by Smith and included many members of the LDS central leadership. However it also included several prominent non-Mormons. Full consensus was required for the Council to pass any measures, and each participant was encouraged and in fact commanded to fully speak their minds on all issues brought before the body. Debate would continue until consensus could be reached. However, if consensus could not be reached, then Smith would \"seek the will of the Lord\" and break the deadlock through divine revelation.\n\nOn the day of the council's organization, John Taylor, Willard Richards, William W. Phelps, and Parley P. Pratt were appointed a committee to \"draft a constitution which should be perfect, and embrace those principles which the constitution of the United States lacked.\" Joseph Smith and other council members criticized the U.S. Constitution for not protecting liberty with enough vigor. After the council's committee reported its draft of the constitution, Smith instructed the council to \"let the constitution alone.\" He then dictated a revelation: \"Verily thus saith the Lord, ye are my constitution, and I am your God, and ye are my spokesmen. From henceforth do as I shall command you. Saith the Lord.\"\n\nAlthough theodemocracy was envisioned to be a unifying force which would minimize faction, it should not be viewed as a repudiation of the individualistic principles underlying American Liberalism. According to James T. McHugh, Mormon theology was \"comfortable...with [the] human-centric vision of both the Protestant Reformation and the liberal Enlightenment...\" Smith's political ideal still held sacred Mormon beliefs in the immutability of individual moral agency. This required most importantly religious freedom and other basic liberties for all people.\n\nTherefore, such a government was never meant to be imposed on the unwilling, nor to be monoreligious. Instead, Smith believed that theodemocracy would be freely chosen by all, whether or not they were Latter-day Saints. This would be especially true when secular governments had dissolved and given way to universal anarchy and violence in the days preceding the Millennium. In fact, Smith and his successors believed that in the religiously pluralistic society which would continue even after Christ's return, theodemocracy demanded the representation of non-Mormons by non-Mormons.\n\nTheodemocracy is a separate concept from the ideal Mormon community of Zion. Zion was not itself a political system, but rather an association of the righteous. Theodemocracy in turn was not a religious organization, but a governmental system which would potentially include people of many religious denominations and be institutionally separate from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even in a government led by God, Smith seemed to support separation of function between church and state. Nevertheless, while civil and ecclesiastical governments were meant to retain their individual and divided spheres of power in a theodemocratic system, leaders of the LDS Church would have important and even dominant secular roles within the political superstructure.\n\nSmith first coined the term theodemocracy while running for President of the United States in 1844. It is also clear that this concept lay behind his organization of the secretive Council of Fifty that same year. But it is uncertain whether Smith believed that he could or should form a functioning theodemocratic government before the advent of the Second Coming and the destruction of worldly political systems.\n\nOnce formed, the Council of Fifty had little actual power, and was more symbolic of preparation for God's future kingdom than a functioning political body. The town of Nauvoo where Smith organized the Council was governed according to a corporate charter received from the state of Illinois in 1841. The Nauvoo Charter granted a wide measure of home rule, but the municipality it created was strictly republican in organization. Such an arrangement may reflect the Mormon history of persecution, with the form of the Nauvoo government developing as a practical self-defense mechanism rather than as an absolute theological preference.\n\nDespite this, later critics labeled the town a \"theocracy\", mostly due to the position of many church leaders, including Joseph Smith, as elected city officials. This was a serious charge, as in Jacksonian America, anything which smacked of theocratic rule was immediately suspect and deemed an anti-republican threat to the country. Suspicions about Mormon rule in Nauvoo, combined with misunderstandings about the role of the Council of Fifty, resulted in hyperbolic rumors about Joseph Smith's \"theocratic kingdom\". This in turn added to the growing furor against the Latter-day Saints in Illinois which eventually led to Smith's assassination in June 1844, and the Mormons' expulsion from the state in early 1846.\nEven before coining the name \"theodemocracy\", Smith's teachings about a political Kingdom of God had caused friction with non-Mormons even before the Nauvoo period. As early as 1831, Smith recorded a revelatory prayer which stated that \"the keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth...Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come...\"\n\nIn other words, Smith believed that it was necessary for the Mormons to at least lay the foundations for the Kingdom of God before the Second Coming could occur. It remains unclear what he felt those foundations must entail. Unfortunately, a lack of precise definitions sometimes confused the issue. For instance, in another 1831 revelation, the \"Kingdom\" seems to be synonymous with the \"Church\". Yet many LDS leaders went to great lengths to distinguish between the \"Church of God\", which was a spiritual organization which included both social and economic programs, and the \"Kingdom of God\", which was fully political and had yet to be fully organized.\n\nIn an 1874 sermon, Brigham Young taught that what the Mormons commonly called the \"Kingdom of God\" actually implied two structures. The first was The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which had been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The second was the political kingdom described by Daniel, a theodemocratic polity which would one day be fully organized, and once initiated would \"protect every person, every sect, and all people upon the face of the whole earth, in their legal rights.\" But however defined, Smith certainly did not believe that the Saints would ever establish this kingdom by force or rebellion.\n\nNevertheless, the very concept of political power enforced by God through any human agency was rejected as obnoxious and highly dangerous by contemporary society. When Smith was arrested in connection with the 1838 Mormon War, he was closely questioned by the presiding judge about whether he believed in the kingdom which would subdue all others as described in the Book of Daniel. Smith's attorney Alexander Doniphan announced that if belief in such teachings were treasonous, then the Bible must be considered a treasonable publication.\n\nThe development of theodemocracy was continued along with the development of Smith's community. Nauvoo was governed by a combination of LDS church leaders and friendly non-Mormons who had been elected to serve in civil office might mark the city as a theodemocracy in embryo. Further, Smith had anticipated that the Mormons would move west long before his murder, and he may have believed that he could create a theodemocratic polity somewhere outside of the\nUnited States in anticipation of Christ's return to earth. Smith's \"last charge\" to the Council of Fifty before his death was to \"bear ... off the Kingdom of God to all the world.\"\n\nAfter Smith's death, the banner of theodemocracy was carried by his successor Brigham Young to Utah in 1847. While Young's early conception of the State of Deseret was no doubt based on theodemocratic principles, its practical application was severely hampered after Utah was made a territory in 1850, and further eroded when Young was replaced as territorial governor after the Utah War of 1857–1858. But even at an early stage, the Utah government never fully implemented Smith's theodemocratic vision. Like in Nauvoo, theodemocratic principles were mainly expressed through the election of church leadership to territorial office through republican processes. As before, the Council of Fifty remained essentially a \"government in exile\" with little real power. In 1855, one LDS Apostle explained that a \"nucleus\" of God's political kingdom had been formed, although that in no way challenged their loyalty to the government of the United States.\n\nMormon belief in an imminent Second Coming continued throughout the 19th century, and their expectation of the violent self-destruction of governments seemed to be confirmed by such events as the American Civil War. Orson Pratt taught, \"not withstanding that it has been sanctioned by the Lord...the day will come when the United States government, and all others, will be uprooted, and the kingdoms of this world will be united in one, and the kingdom of our God will govern the whole earth...if the Bible be true, and we know it to be true.\" Thus, while the Saints sincerely proclaimed their loyalty to the United States throughout this period, they also expected its unavoidable collapse along with other worldly governments. This in turn would require the Latter-day Saints to bring order to the resultant chaos and \"save the Constitution\" by implementation of a true theodemocracy.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, Mormon expectations of an imminent Apocalypse had largely dissipated, and Utah's admission to the Union in 1896 required the removal of the last vestiges of theodemocracy from the local government. The Council of Fifty had not met since the 1880s, and was technically extinguished when its last surviving member, Heber J. Grant, died in 1945. Thus, theodemocracy within the LDS church has slowly receded in importance. While Mormons still believe that the Kingdom of God maintains the bifurcated definition espoused by Brigham Young, both church and millennial government, its political implications are now rarely alluded to. Rather, the kingdom predicted by the Prophet Daniel is commonly identified simply with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Theodemocracy has become a principle which, when discussed at all, is relegated to an indefinite future when secular governments have already fully collapsed in the turbulent times preceding the Second Coming. Until such time, injunctions within the LDS church to \"build up the Kingdom of God\" refer to purely spiritual matters such as missionary work, and Joseph Smith's political ideal bears little weight in contemporary LDS political theory or objectives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15515119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515119", "title": "Theology of Huldrych Zwingli", "text": "Theology of Huldrych Zwingli\n\nThe theology of Huldrych Zwingli was based on the Bible, taking scripture as the inspired word of God and placing its authority higher than what he saw as human sources such as the ecumenical councils and the church fathers. He also recognised the human element within the inspiration noting the differences in the canonical gospels. Zwinglianism is the Reformed confession based on the Second Helvetic Confession promulgated by Zwingli's successor Heinrich Bullinger in the 1560s.\n\nZwingli's views on baptism were largely a response to Anabaptism, a movement which attacked the practice of infant baptism. He defended the baptism of children by describing it as a sign of a Christian's covenant with disciples and God just as God made a covenant with Abraham.\n\nHe developed the symbolic view of the Eucharist. He denied the Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation and following Cornelius Henrici Hoen, he agreed that the bread and wine of the institution signify and do not literally become the body and blood of Jesus Christ. Zwingli's differences of opinion on this with Martin Luther resulted in the failure of the Marburg Colloquy to bring unity between the two Protestant leaders.\n\nZwingli believed that the state governed with divine sanction. He believed that both the church and the state are placed under the sovereign rule of God. Christians were obliged to obey the government, but civil disobedience was allowed if the authorities acted against the will of God. He described a preference for an aristocracy over monarchic or democratic rule.\n\nThe Bible is central in Zwingli's work as a reformer and is crucial in the development of his theology. Zwingli appealed to scripture constantly in his writings. This is strongly evident in his early writings such as \"Archeteles\" (1522) and llarity and Certainty of the Word of God\" (1522). He believed that man is a liar and only God is the truth. For him scripture, as God's word, brings light when there is only darkness of error.\n\nZwingli initially appealed to scripture against Catholic opponents in order to counter their appeal to the church—which included the councils, the church fathers, the schoolmen, and the popes. To him, these authorities were based on man and liable to error. He noted that \"the fathers must yield to the word of God and not the word of God to the fathers\". His insistence of using the word of God did not preclude him from using the councils or the church fathers in his arguments. He gave them no independent authority, but he used them to show that the views he held were not simply his own.\n\nThe inspiration of scripture, the concept that God or the Holy Spirit is the author, was taken for granted by Zwingli. His view of inspiration was not mechanical and he recognized the human element in his commentaries as he noted the differences in the canonical gospels. He did not recognize the apocryphal books as canonical. Like Martin Luther, Zwingli did not regard the Revelation of St John highly, and also did not accept a \"canon within the canon\", but he did accept scripture as a whole.\n\nZwingli's views on baptism are largely rooted in his conflict with the Anabaptists, a group whose beliefs included the rejection of infant baptism and centered on the leadership of Conrad Grebel and Felix Manz. In October 1523, the controversy over the issue broke out during the second Zürich disputation and Zwingli vigorously defended the need for infant baptism and his belief that rebaptism was unnecessary. His major works on the subject include \"Baptism, Rebaptism, and Infant Baptism\" (1525), \"A Reply to Hubmaier\" (1525), \"A Refutation\" (1527), and \"Questions Concerning the Sacrament of Baptism\" (1530).\n\nIn \"Baptism, Rebaptism, and Infant Baptism\", Zwingli outlined his disagreements with both the Catholic and the Anabaptist positions. He accused the Anabaptists of adding to the word of God and noted that there is no law forbidding infant baptism. He challenged Catholics by denying that the water of baptism can have the power to wash away sin. Zwingli understood baptism to be a pledge or a promise, but he disputed the Anabaptist position that it is a pledge to live without sin, noting that such a pledge brings back the hypocrisy of legalism. He argued against their view that those that received the Spirit and were able to live without sin were the only persons qualified to partake in baptism. At the same time he asserted that rebaptism had no support in scripture. The Anabaptists raised the objection that Christ did not baptise children, and so Christians, likewise, should not baptise their children. Zwingli responded by noting that kind of argument would imply women should not participate in communion because there were no women at the last supper. Although there was no commandment to baptise children specifically, the need for baptism was clearly stated in scripture. In a separate discussion on original sin, Zwingli denies original guilt. He refers to I Corinthians 7:12–14 which states that the children of one Christian parent are holy and thus they are counted among the sons of God. Infants should be baptised because there is only one church and one baptism, not a partial church and partial baptism.\n\nThe first part of the document, \"A Reply to Hubmaier\", is an attack on Balthasar Hubmaier's position on baptism. The second part where Zwingli defends his own views demonstrates further development in his doctrine of baptism. Rather than baptism being simply a pledge, he describes baptism as a sign of our covenant with God. Furthermore, he associates this covenant with the covenant that God made with Abraham. As circumcision was the sign of God's covenant with Abraham, baptism was the sign of his covenant with Christians. In \"A Refutation\", he states,\n\nThe children of Christians are no less sons of God than the parents, just as in the Old Testament. Hence, since they are sons of God, who will forbid this baptism? Circumcision among the ancients ... was the same as baptism with us. \n\nHis later writings show no change in his fundamental positions. Other elements in Zwingli's theology would lead him to deny that baptism is a means of grace or that it is necessary for salvation. His defence of infant baptism was not only a matter of church politics, but was clearly related to the whole of his theology and his profound sense of unity of the church.\n\nThe Eucharist was a key center of controversy in the Reformation as it not only focused differences between the reformers and the church but also between themselves. For Zwingli it was a matter of attacking a doctrine that imperiled the understanding and reception of God's gift of salvation, while for Luther it was a matter of defending a doctrine that embodied that gift. It is not known what Zwingli's eucharistic theology was before he became a reformer and there is disagreement among scholars about his views during his first few years as a priest. In the eighteenth article of \"The Sixty-seven Articles\" (1523) which concerns the sacrifice of the mass, he states that it is a memorial of the sacrifice. He expounds on this in \"An Exposition of the Articles\" (1523).\n\nZwingli credited the Dutch humanist, Cornelius Henrici Hoen (Honius), for first suggesting the \"is\" in the institution words \"This is my body\" meant \"signifies\". Hoen sent a letter to Zwingli in 1524 with this interpretation along with biblical examples to support it. It is impossible to say how the letter impacted Zwingli's theology although Zwingli claimed that he already held the symbolic view when he read the letter. He first mentioned the \"signifies\" interpretation in a letter to Matthäus Alber, an associate of Luther. Zwingli denies transubstantiation using John 6:63, \"It is the Spirit who gives life, the flesh is of no avail\", as support. He commended Andreas Karlstadt's understanding of the significance of faith, but rejected Karlstadt's view that the word \"this\" refers to Christ's body rather than the bread. Using other biblical passages and patristic sources, he defended the \"signifies\" interpretation. In \"The Eucharist\" (1525), following the introduction of his communion liturgy, he laid out the details of his theology where he argues against the view that the bread and wine become the body and blood of Christ and that they are eaten bodily.\n\nThe conflict between Zwingli and Luther began in 1525, but it was not until 1527 that Zwingli engaged directly with Luther. The culmination of the controversy was the Marburg Colloquy in 1529. He wrote four responses leading up to the meeting: \"A Friendly Exegesis\" (1527), \"A Friendly Answer\" (1527), \"Zwingli's Christian Reply\" (1527), and \"Two Replies to Luther's Book\" (1528). They examined Luther's point-of-view rather than systematically presenting Zwingli's own. Some of his comments were sharp and critical, although they were never as harsh and dismissive as some of Luther's on him. However, Zwingli also called Luther \"one of the first champions of the Gospel\", a David against Goliath, a Hercules who slew the Roman boar. Martin Bucer and Johannes Oecolampadius most likely influenced Zwingli as they were concerned with reconciliation of the eucharistic views.\n\nThe main issue for Zwingli is that Luther puts \"the chief point of salvation in the bodily eating of the body of Christ\". Luther saw the action as strengthening faith and remitting sins. This, however, conflicted with Zwingli's view of faith. The bodily presence of Christ could not produce faith as faith is from God, for those whom God has chosen. Zwingli also appealed to several passages of scripture with John 6:63 in particular. He saw Luther's view as denying Christ's humanity and asserted that Christ's body is only at one place and that is at the right hand of God. The Marburg Colloquy did not produce anything new in the debate between the two reformers. Neither changed his position, but it did produce some further developments in Zwingli's views. For example, he noted that the bread was not mere bread and affirmed terms such as \"presence\", \"true\", and \"sacramental\". However, it was Zwingli's and Luther's differences in their understanding of faith, their Christology, their approach and use of scripture that ultimately made any agreement impossible.\n\nNear the end of his life Zwingli summarized his understanding of the Eucharist in a confession sent to King Francis I, saying:\n\n\"We believe that Christ is truly present in the Lord’s Supper; yea, we believe that there is no communion without the presence of Christ. This is the proof: 'Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them' (Matt. 18:20). How much more is he present where the whole congregation is assembled to his honor! But that his body is literally eaten is far from the truth and the nature of faith. It is contrary to the truth, because he himself says: 'I am no more in the world' (John 17:11), and 'The flesh profiteth nothing' (John 6:63), that is to eat, as the Jews then believed and the Papists still believe. It is contrary to the nature of faith (I mean the holy and true faith), because faith embraces love, fear of God, and reverence, which abhor such carnal and gross eating, as much as any one would shrink from eating his beloved son.… We believe that the true body of Christ is eaten in the communion in a sacramental and spiritual manner by the religious, believing, and pious heart (as also St. Chrysostom taught). And this is in brief the substance of what we maintain in this controversy, and what not we, but the truth itself teaches.\"\n\nThe relation of church and state in Zwingli's mind is best represented in a statue by the Wasserkirche, where he stands with a Bible in one hand and a sword in the other. For him, the church and state are one under the sovereign rule of God. The development of the complex relationship between church and state in Zwingli's view can only be understood by examining the context of his life, the city of Zürich, and the wider Swiss Confederation. His earliest writings before he became a reformer, such as \"The Ox\" (1510) and \"The Labyrinth\" (1516), reveal a patriotic love of his land, a longing for liberty, and opposition to the mercenary service where young Swiss citizens were sent to fight in foreign wars for the financial benefit of the state government. His life as a parish priest and an army chaplain helped to develop his concern for morality and justice. He saw his ministry not limited to a private sphere, but to the people as a whole.\n\nThe Zürich council played an essential role at each stage of the Reformation. Even before the Reformation, the council operated relatively independently on church matters although the areas of doctrine and worship were left to the authority of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. As Zwingli was convinced that doctrinal matters had to conform to the word of God rather than the hierarchy, he recognised the role of the council as the only body with power to act if the religious authorities refused to undertake reform. His theocratic views are best expressed in \"Divine and Human Righteousness\" (1523) and \"An Exposition of the Articles\" (1523) in that both preacher and prince were servants under the rule of God. The context surrounding these two publications was a period of considerable tension. Zwingli was banned by the Swiss Diet from travelling into any other canton. The work of the Reformation was endangered by the potential outbreak of religious and social disorder. Zwingli saw the need to present the government in a positive light to safeguard the continued preaching of the Gospel. He stated,\n\n... the gospel of Christ is not opposed to government ... but is a support to government... as far as it acts in a Christian way in accordance with the standard prescribed by God.\n\nThe relationship between preacher and magistrate was demonstrated by two forms of righteousness, human and divine. Human righteousness (or the \"outward man\") was the domain of the magistrate or government. Government could secure human righteousness, but it could not make man righteous before God. That was the domain of the preacher where the \"inward man\" is called to account for divine righteousness.\n\nAs government was ordained by God, Christians were obliged to obey in Zwingli's view. This requirement applied equally to a good or an evil government because both came from God. However, it is because rulers are to be servants of God and that Christians obey the rulers as they are to obey God, that the situation could arise when Christians may disobey. When the authorities act against the will of God then Zwingli noted, \"We must obey God rather than men.\" God's commands took precedence over man's.\n\nIn his \"Commentary on Isaiah\" (1529), Zwingli noted that there were three kinds of governments: monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy. He expressed his preference for aristocracy which is not surprising given his experience with the Zürich council. In the publication, rather than comparing the three forms of government, he gave a defence of aristocracy against a monarchy. He argued that a monarchy would invariably descend to tyranny. A monarchy had inherent weaknesses in that a good ruler could be easily replaced by a bad one or a single ruler could be easily corrupted. An aristocracy with more people involved did not have these disadvantages.\n\n\n\nOlder German / Latin editions of Zwingli's works available online include:\n\nSee also the following English translations of selected works by Zwingli:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7488750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7488750", "title": "Universal indult", "text": "Universal indult\n\nUniversal indult is a term that was used primarily by traditionalist Catholics in a very specific sense. Since an indult signifies a favour granted to an individual or limited group, a similar measure applied to every member of a particular class of persons would in reality be a change of the law, not an indult. However, in spite of its self-contradictory character, traditionalist Catholics used the term \"universal indult\" to refer to a general permission that they hoped the Pope would grant to all Catholic priests who celebrate Mass in the Roman Rite to do so in its Tridentine Mass form even publicly without first obtaining a specific indult or permission. Groups such as the Priestly Fraternity of St. Peter have standing specific indults to say the Tridentine Mass.\n\nOn 7 July 2007 Pope Benedict XVI issued the motu proprio Summorum Pontificum, declaring that, while the \"Roman Missal promulgated by Paul VI is the ordinary expression of the Lex orandi of the Catholic Church of the Latin rite\", the \"Roman Missal promulgated by St. Pius V and reissued by Bl. John XXIII is to be considered as an extraordinary expression of that same Lex orandi\"; for celebrations without the people (\"sine populo\"), all priests of the Latin Rite may freely use the Missal promulgated by Pope John XXIII in 1962 instead of the more recent editions (article 2), and that the priest in charge of a church may grant permission for parish celebrations with the 1962 Missal by priests who are \"idoneous and not juridically impeded\" (article 5).\n\nThis motu proprio is not an indult: it does not grant permission, but instead lays down regulations governing the use in practice of the 1962 Missal, a use recognized as already legitimate in principle. While the form given to the Roman Rite by Pope Paul VI is now its ordinary form, the Tridentine form as last revised by Pope John XXIII may be used as an extraordinary form, as, for instance, the Sarum Rite has occasionally been used in modern times by Catholic Bishops. It also allows what some traditionalists would call novelties, such as proclaiming the Scripture readings in the vernacular language in Masses celebrated in the presence of the people (article 6).\n\nBefore this motu proprio was issued, traditionalist Catholic groups, the largest of which is the Society of St. Pius X, which, even if not in formal schism, is in a situation of separation from the Church headed by the Holy See, claimed that no special authorization was required to celebrate the Tridentine Mass even publicly. They interpreted Pope Pius V's 1570 bull \"Quo primum\" as saying that the Tridentine Mass may be said in perpetuity.\n\nBishop Fellay, the SSPX superior general, said, \"So long as the Tridentine Mass is considered a particular concession, we remain marginalized, in a precarious and suspect position. It is in this perspective that we claim a right that has never been lost: that of the Mass for everyone. To reduce this right to an indult (which certain Roman voices hold to be provisory) is already to diminish it.\"\n\nThese groups wanted more than a universal indult, they wanted universal acceptance of the Tridentine Mass. Bishop Richard Williamson has said: \"The downside [of accepting a universal indult] is, of course, that a number of lines will be blurred which are presently clear, separating true Tradition from any kind of compromise. Also, the \"very idea of the intrinsically legitimate Tridentine Mass needing an 'indult' is false.\" But I think, over all, much more good than harm would come from the True Mass being 'liberated'.\"\n\nThe following arguments are used against the view that the Roman Missal promulgated by Pope Pius V in 1570 was to be considered valid for all times and could not be altered even by later Popes:\n"}
{"id": "13485151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13485151", "title": "Vedanta Society", "text": "Vedanta Society\n\nVedanta Societies refer to organizations, groups, or societies formed for the study, practice, and propagation of Vedanta. More specifically, they often refer to branches of the Ramakrishna Mission located outside India. \n\nThe branches of the Ramakrishna Order located outside India are generally known as Vedanta Societies, and are under the spiritual guidance of the Ramakrishna Order. The work of the Vedanta Societies in the west has primarily been devoted to spiritual and pastoral activities, though many of them do some form of social service. Many of the Western Vedanta societies have resident monks, and several centers have resident nuns. \n\nThe first Vedanta Society, the Vedanta Society of New York, was founded by Swami Vivekananda in November 1894. Vivekananda later on asked Swami Abhedananda to lead the organization in 1897. Many of the existing Vedanta Societies are affiliated, either formally or informally, with the Ramakrishna Order, the monastic order, which led to the formation of Ramakrishna Mission. \n\nPrior to its inception, Swami Vivekananda had given his famous \"Sisters and Brothers of America!\", public lecture at Parliament of Religions, Chicago in September 1893; after its success he spent following two years lecturing in various parts of eastern and central United States, appearing chiefly in Chicago, Detroit, Boston, and New York. In June 1895, for two months he conducted private lectures to a dozen of his disciples at the Thousand Island Park. \n\nThe term \"Vedanta Society\" generally refers to branches of the Ramakrishna Mission. Other societies, groups, organizations, and institutes which are aligned with this mission and goal of teaching Vedanta include the following, but are not limited to: \n\n"}
{"id": "451642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451642", "title": "Wendigo", "text": "Wendigo\n\nIn Algonquian folklore, the wendigo () or windigo is a mythical man-eating monster or evil spirit native to the northern forests of the Atlantic Coast and Great Lakes Region of the United States and Canada. The wendigo may appear as a monster with some characteristics of a human or as a spirit who has possessed a human being and made them become monstrous. It is historically associated with murder, insatiable greed, and the cultural taboos against such behaviours. \n\nThe legend lends its name to the controversial modern medical term Wendigo psychosis, described by psychiatrists as a culture-bound syndrome with symptoms such as an intense craving for human flesh and fear of becoming a cannibal. In some Indigenous communities, environmental destruction and insatiable greed are also seen as a manifestation of Wendigo psychosis.\n\nAlternative spellings: \"Wiindigoo\" (the source of the English word, from the Ojibwe language), \"Wendigo\", \"Weendigo\", \"Windego\", \"Wiindgoo\", \"Windgo\", \"Weendigo\", \"Wiindigoo\", \"Windago\", \"Windiga\", \"Wendego\", \"Windagoo\", \"Widjigo\", \"Wiijigoo\", \"Wijigo\", \"Weejigo\", \"Wìdjigò\" (in the Algonquin language), \"Wintigo\", \"Wentigo\", \"Wehndigo\", \"Wentiko\", \"Windgoe\", \"Wintsigo\" and \"wīhtikōw\" (in the Cree language); the Proto-Algonquian term was \"*wi·nteko·wa\", which probably meant \"owl\" in their original language. \"Windigoag\" is a plural form (also spelled \"Windegoag\", \"Wiindigooag\", or \"Windikouk\")\n\nThe Wechuge is a similar being that appears in the legends of the Athabaskan people of the Northwest Pacific Coast. It too was cannibalistic. However, it was not so much insane as enlightened with ancestral insights.\n\nThe wendigo is part of the traditional belief system of a number of Algonquin-speaking peoples, including the Ojibwe, the Saulteaux, the Cree, the Naskapi, and the Innu people. Although descriptions can vary somewhat, common to all these cultures is the view that the wendigo is a malevolent, cannibalistic, supernatural being. They were strongly associated with winter, the north, coldness, famine, and starvation.\n\nBasil Johnston, an Ojibwe teacher and scholar from Ontario, gives a description of a wendigo:\nIn Ojibwe, Eastern Cree, Westmain Swampy Cree, Naskapi, and Innu lore, wendigos are often described as giants that are many times larger than human beings, a characteristic absent from myths in other Algonquian cultures. Whenever a wendigo ate another person, it would grow in proportion to the meal it had just eaten, so it could never be full. Therefore, wendigos are portrayed as simultaneously gluttonous and extremely thin due to starvation.\n\nThe Wendigo is seen as the embodiment of gluttony, greed, and excess: never satisfied after killing and consuming one person, they are constantly searching for new victims.\n\nIn some traditions, humans overpowered by greed could turn into wendigos; the myth thus served as a method of encouraging cooperation and moderation. Humans could also turn into wendigos by being in contact with them for too long.\n\nAmong the Assiniboine, the Cree and the Ojibwe, a satirical ceremonial dance is sometimes performed during times of famine to reinforce the seriousness of the wendigo taboo. The ceremony, known as wiindigookaanzhimowin, was performed during times of famine, and involved wearing masks and dancing backwards around a drum. The last known wendigo ceremony conducted in the United States was at Lake Windigo of Star Island of Cass Lake, located within the Leech Lake Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota.\n\nIn historical accounts of Wendigo psychosis, it has been reported that humans became possessed by the Wendigo spirit, after being in a situation of needing food and having no other choice besides cannibalism.\nIn 1661, the Jesuit Relations reported:\nOne of the more famous cases of Wendigo psychosis reported involved a Plains Cree trapper from Alberta, named Swift Runner. During the winter of 1878, Swift Runner and his family were starving, and his eldest son died. Twenty-five miles away from emergency food supplies at a Hudson's Bay Company post, Swift Runner butchered and ate his wife and five remaining children. Given that he resorted to cannibalism so near to food supplies, and that he killed and consumed the remains of all those present, it was revealed that Swift Runner's was not a case of pure cannibalism as a last resort to avoid starvation, but rather of a man with Wendigo psychosis. He eventually confessed and was executed by authorities at Fort Saskatchewan.\n\nAnother well-known case involving Wendigo psychosis was that of Jack Fiddler, an Oji-Cree chief and medicine man known for his powers at defeating wendigos. In some cases, this entailed killing people with Wendigo psychosis. As a result, in 1907, Fiddler and his brother Joseph were arrested by the Canadian authorities for homicide. Jack committed suicide, but Joseph was tried and sentenced to life in prison. He ultimately was granted a pardon, but died three days later in jail before receiving the news of this pardon.\n\nFascination with Wendigo psychosis among Western ethnographers, psychologists, and anthropologists led to a hotly debated controversy in the 1980s over the historicity of this phenomenon. Some researchers argued that essentially, wendigo psychosis was a fabrication, the result of naïve anthropologists taking stories related to them at face value without observation. Others have pointed to a number of credible eyewitness accounts, both by Algonquians and others, as evidence that wendigo psychosis was a factual historical phenomenon.\n\nThe frequency of Wendigo psychosis cases decreased sharply in the 20th century as Boreal Algonquian people came into greater and greater contact with European ideologies and more sedentary, less rural, lifestyles.\n\nIn addition to denoting a cannibalistic monster from their traditional folklore, Native Americans also understand the wendigo conceptually. As a concept, the wendigo can apply to any person, idea, or movement infected by a corrosive drive toward self-aggrandizing greed and excessive consumption, traits that sow disharmony and destruction if left unchecked. Ojibwe scholar Brady DeSanti asserts that the wendigo “can be understood as a marker indicating . . . a person . . . imbalanced both internally and toward the larger community of human and spiritual beings around them.\" Out of equilibrium and estranged by their communities, individuals afflicted by the wendigo spirit unravel and destroy the environmental balance around them. Chippewa author Louise Erdrich’s novel \"The Round House (novel)\", winner of the National Book Award, depicts a situation where an individual person becomes a wendigo. The novel describes its primary antagonist, a rapist whose violent crimes desecrates a sacred site, as a wendigo who must be killed because he threatens the reservation’s safety.\n\nIn addition to characterizing individual people who exhibit destructive tendencies, the wendigo can also describe movements and events with similarly negative effects. According to professor Chris Schedler, the figure of the wendigo represents “consuming forms of exclusion and assimilation” through which groups dominate other groups.\" This application allows Native Americans to describe colonialism and its agents as wendigos, since the process of colonialism ejected natives from their land and threw the natural world out of balance. DeSanti points to the 1999 horror film \"Ravenous\" as an illustration of this argument equating “the cannibal monster” to “American colonialism and manifest destiny”. This movie features a character who articulates that expansion brings displacement and destruction as side effects, explaining that “manifest destiny” and “western expansion” will bring “thousands of gold-hungry Americans . . . over the mountains in search of new lives . . . This country is seeking to be whole . . . Stretching out its arms . . . and consuming all it can. And we merely follow”. For a more detailed exploration linking wendigo attributes to colonialism, see Jack D. Forbes’s 1978 book \"Columbus and Other Cannibals\", which was an influential text in the American Indian Movement.\n\nAs a concept, wendigo can apply to other situations than just Native American-European relations. It can serve as a metaphor explaining any pattern of domination by which groups subjugate and dominate or violently destroy and displace. Joe Lockhard, English professor at Arizona State University, argues that wendigos are agents of “social cannibalism” who know “no provincial or national borders; all human cultures have been visited by shape shifting wendigos. Their visitations speak to the inseparability of human experience . . . National identity is irrelevant to this borderless horror”. Lockhard’s ideas explain that wendigos are an expression of a dark aspect of human nature: the drive toward greed, consumption, and disregard for other life in the pursuit of self-aggrandizement.\n\nAlthough distinct from how it appears in the traditional lore, one of the first appearances of a character inspired by, or named after, a Wendigo in non-Indigenous literature is Algernon Blackwood's 1910 short story \"The Wendigo\". Blackwood's work has influenced many of the subsequent portrayals in mainstream horror fiction, such as August Derleth's \"The Thing that Walked in the Wind\" and \"Ithaqua\" (1933 and 1941), which in turn inspired the character in Stephen King's novel \"Pet Sematary\", where it is a personification of evil, an ugly grinning creature with yellow-grey eyes, ears replaced by ram's horns, white vapour coming from its nostrils, and a pointed, decaying yellow tongue. These works set the template for later portrayals in popular culture, at times even replacing the Native American lore.\n\nThe Wendigo appears in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Steve Englehart and artist Herb Trimpe, the monster is the result of a curse that afflicts those who commit acts of cannibalism in parts of Canada. The Wendigo first appeared in The Incredible Hulk #162 (April 1973) fighting the Incredible Hulk as well as Wolverine in his first comic book appearance.\n\nCreatures based upon wendigos appear in a number of films, including \"Dark Was the Night\" and \"Ravenous\". They have also appeared in television series, including \"Supernatural\", \"Blood Ties\", \"Charmed,\" and \"Grimm\".\n\nIn the TV series \"Hannibal\", FBI profiler Will Graham has several dreams or visions that feature a Wendigo which serves as symbolism for the cannibalistic titular character of the series. The Wendigo featured is tall and thin, emaciated, with tar-black skin and antlers protruding from the top of its head. \n\nCharacters with the name appear in a number of computer and video games, including \"Until Dawn\", \"The Legend of Dragoon\", \"The Secret World\", \"Fallout 76\", and the \"Warcraft\" universes, as well as role-playing games such as \"Dungeons & Dragons\". \n\n"}
{"id": "5303840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5303840", "title": "Young Muslim Association", "text": "Young Muslim Association\n\nThe Young Muslim Association (YMA) was an Islamic organizations founded by Hassan Al-Qazwini that is open to people of all ages. The YMA regularly scheduled programs and events throughout the year, most notable was its Friday programs which occurred all year long in the evenings. Its was headquarters are in Dearborn, Michigan, United States and was led by Imam Sayed Hassan Al-Qazwini. The YMA was affiliated with, and serves as the youth arm of, the Islamic Center of America.\n\nThe stated goals of the YMA were to provide an Islamic way of life for Muslim youth by prompting the teachings of Muhammad. The organization also tries to enhance the leadership qualities of young people within the community.\n\n"}
