{"id": "795059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795059", "title": "1824 Constitution of Mexico", "text": "1824 Constitution of Mexico\n\nThe Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1824 () was enacted on October 4 of 1824, after the overthrow of the Mexican Empire of Agustin de Iturbide. In the new constitution, the republic took the name of United Mexican States, and was defined as a representative federal republic, with Catholicism as the official and unique religion. It was replaced by the Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857.\n\nThe Mexican War of Independence (1810–1824) severed control that Spain had exercised on its North American territories, and the new country of Mexico was formed from much of the individual territory that had comprised New Spain. The victorious rebels issued a provisional constitution, the Plan de Iguala. This plan reaffirmed many of the ideals of the Spanish Constitution of 1812 and granted equal citizenship rights to all races. In the early days of the country, there was much disagreement over whether Mexico should be a federal republic or a constitutional monarchy. One of the leaders of the revolution became the first monarch, Agustin I.\n\nDiscontent with Agustin's national government grew, Brigadier Antonio López de Santa Anna initiated an insurrection. Generals issued the Plan of Casa Mata on 1 February 1823. The plan won the support of the provinces because it included a provision granting local authority to the provincial deputations. The election of a new legislature constituted the plan’s principal demand, because provincial leaders considered the composition of the first congress to be flawed. Following the precedent of the Hispanic Cortes, Mexican political leaders considered the executive to be subservient to the legislature. Thus, a new congress, which did not possess the liabilities of the old, could restore confidence even if the executive remained in place. Mexican politicians, of course, expected the new body to keep the emperor in check. Agustin abdicated in March 1823.\n\nThe failure of Iturbide’s short-lived empire ensured that any future government would be republican. The reconvened Mexican Cortes appointed a triumvirate called the Supreme Executive Power which would alternate the presidency among its members on a monthly basis. But the question of how the nation was to be organized remained unresolved. The Mexican Cortes, following the Cádiz model, maintained that it was sovereign since it represented the nation. The provinces, however, believed that they possessed sovereignty, a portion of which they collectively ceded to form a national government. The Cortes insisted on writing the nation’s constitution, but the provinces maintained that it could only convene a new constituent congress based on the electoral regulations of the Constitution of Cádiz. Neither side was willing to cede. In the months that followed, the provinces assumed control of their governments through their provincial deputations. Four provinces, Oaxaca, Yucatán, Guadalajara, and Zacatecas, converted themselves into states. To avoid civil war, the Cortes acquiesced and elected a new constituent congress. Elections for a second constituent assembly, based on a convocatoria issued 26 June 1821 by the Hispanic Cortes, were held throughout the nation in August and September. The executive branch was not restructured, because both the provinces and the new constituent congress considered it subservient to the legislature.\n\nThe new congress, which the provinces had insisted upon since March, finally met on 7 November 1823. The second Constituent Congress was quite different from the first. It represented the provinces more equitably, and some of its members possessed instructions to form only a federal republic. Oaxaca, Yucatán, Jalisco, and Zacatecas, which had become states, elected state congresses, rather than provincial deputations, as the convocatoria required. The Mexico City-based national elite, which had been struggling for power since 1808, and which had taken control in 1821, lost it two years later to the provincial elites. Although some members of the national elite were elected to the new constituent congress, they formed a distinct minority. Indeed, only thirty-five of the one hundred-forty-four deputies and alternates elected to the new legislature had served in the earlier Mexican Cortes.\n\nThe constituent congress, which convened on 7 November 1823, faced very different circumstances from its predecessor. Not only had the provinces declared their sovereignty, but they had also restricted the authority of their delegates. Valladolid, Michoacán, for example, declared: \"This province in the federation does not wish to relinquish the major portion of its liberty and other rights; it only grants [its deputies] the authority absolutely necessary to keep the portion it retains.\" Mérida, Yucatán, decreed that \"the elected deputies are granted only the power (...) to constitute the nation in a government that is republican, representative and federal\", and that: \"The federal constitution that they form and agree with the other deputies of the Constituent Congress will not have the force of law in the nation until the majority of the federated states ratify it.\" Zacatecas, Zacatecas, was even more explicit, asserting that \"The deputies to the future congress cannot constitute the nation as they deem convenient, but only as a federal republic.\" Guadalajara insisted that the pueblos of Jalisco wanted only a popular, representative and republican form of government. Other provinces made similar declarations.\n\nThe new congress represented regional interests. Therefore, the debate in the legislature focused on the division of power between the national and the provincial governments, not on whether Mexico would be a federal or a central republic. The delegates were divided into a confederalist, two federalist, and one centralist faction. The confederalists, extreme defenders of local rights like Juan de Dios Cañedo, argued that only the provinces possessed sovereignty, a portion of which they collectively ceded to the union to form a national government. This interpretation meant that the provinces, or states, as Oaxaca, Yucatán, Jalisco and Zacatecas now called themselves, could subsequently reclaim the power they had relinquished. They were opposed by federalists like Servando Teresa de Mier who believed that only the nation was sovereign. In their view, although the country was organised into provinces, or states, for political purposes, the people, not the states, possessed sovereignty. The deputies, therefore, did not represent the states, but the people who constituted the nation. As the representative of the Mexican people, Congress possessed greater power and authority than the state legislatures. In a sense, they were reasserting the position which had prevailed in Cádiz in 1812. Midway between these extremes stood men like the federalist Ramos Arizpe, who believed that the national government and the states shared sovereignty. Although they favoured states’ rights, they nevertheless believed that the national government had to command sufficient power to function effectively. The confederalist/federalist factions were opposed by a tiny minority of centralists who argued that sovereignty was vested in the nation and that Mexico needed a strong national government.\n\nA committee consisting of Ramos Arizpe, Cañedo, Miguel Argüelles, Rafael Mangino, Tomás Vargas, José de Jesús Huerta, and Manuel Crescencio Rejón, submitted an Acta Constitutiva (draft of a constitution) on 20 November. The group completed the draft of the charter in a few days. This was possible because the document was based on the shared Hispanic political theory and practice that Mexicans, the former novohispanos, knew well, since they had played a significant role in shaping it. In the years since Napoleon had invaded Spain in 1808, the political entities that formed the Mexican nation in 1821 had undergone a series of rapid political changes that politicised the majority of the population and led to a vibrant political discourse. The Hispanic Constitution of 1812 and its institutions of government were well known; moreover, seven proposals for a Mexican constitution had been debated throughout the country in the previous months. The constituent congress, therefore, was filled with educated individuals with diverse ideas and extensive political experience at the local, state, national, and international levels. A few, like Ramos Arizpe and Guridi y Alcocer, had served in the Cortes in Spain and had participated in the discussions of the Constitution of 1812. In addition, Ramos Arizpe had been working on a federal constitution for some time. Lorenzo de Zavala was president of the congress that approved the constitution.\n\nThe Acta Constitutiva submitted by the committee was modelled on the Hispanic Constitution of 1812. Most of its articles were based on the Peninsular document; a few were adopted verbatim from that charter. For example, on the question of sovereignty the Hispanic Constitution stated: \"Sovereignty resides essentially in the nation and, therefore, it [the nation] possesses the exclusive right to adopt the form of government that seems most convenient for its conservation and prosperity\". Article 3 of the Mexican Acta Constitutiva read: \"Sovereignty resides radically and essentially in the nation and, therefore, it [the nation] possesses the exclusive right to adopt by means of its representatives the form of government and other fundamental laws that seem most convenient for its conservation and greater prosperity\". Although the deputies relied on their first constitutional experience, the Constitution of 1812, they did not slavishly copy the Hispanic model. Guridi y Alcocer, for example, explained that ever since he had served on the constitutional commission in the Hispanic Cortes he had maintained that sovereignty resided radically in the nation, by which he meant that the nation, as the institutional representative of el Pueblo, could not lose its sovereignty. His principal critics were radical federalists like Juan de Dios Cañedo, deputy from Jalisco, who challenged the need for an article declaring national sovereignty. He asked: that the article be deleted because in a republican federal government each state is sovereign. (…) Therefore, it is impossible to conceive how sovereignty, which is the origin and source of authority and power, can be divided among the many states. [T]hat is why the first constitution of the United States [the Articles of Confederation] (…) does not mention national sovereignty. And, therefore, (…) Article 1 which discusses the nation should not be approved because it is not appropriate in the system we now have.\n\nThe Acta, unlike the Hispanic constitution, did not grant exclusive or even preponderant sovereignty to the nation, because the states also claimed sovereignty. Accordingly, Article 6 stated: \"Its integral parts are independent, free, and sovereign States in that which exclusively concerns their administration and interior government\". The issue of sovereignty remained at heart a question of the division of power between the national and the state governments. It was an issue that would be debated at length in the months to come.\n\nThe proponents of state sovereignty—the confederalists—were challenged by some less radical federalist delegates who argued that only the nation could be sovereign. Because these men stressed the need to endow the national government with sufficient power to sustain national interests, they are often mistakenly considered centralists. Servando Teresa de Mier, their outstanding spokesman, argued that people wrongly considered him a centralist, an error that arose from an unnecessarily restrictive definition of federalism. He indicated that federalism existed in many forms: the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland and the United States were federations, yet each was different.\nMier advocated the establishment of a unique brand of federalism suited to Mexico. He believed that local realities precluded the adoption of the extreme form of federalism—confederalism—championed by states’ righters. He declared: \"I have always been in favour of a federation, but a reasonable and moderate federation. (...) I have always believed in a medium between the lax federation of the United States, whose defects many writers have indicated, (…) and the dangerous concentration [of executive power] in Colombia and Peru.\" In his view, Mexico needed a strong federal system because the country required an energetic and decisive national government to lead it during the crucial early years of nationhood, particularly since Spain refused to recognise Mexico’s independence and the Holy Alliance threatened to intervene. For these reasons, Mier voted in favour of Article 5, which established a federal republic, while opposing Article 6, which granted sovereignty to the states.\n\nNeither the advocates of states' rights, like Cañedo, nor the proponents of national sovereignty, like Mier, triumphed. Instead, a compromise emerged: shared sovereignty, as advocated by moderate federalists such as Ramos Arizpe. Throughout the debates, he and others argued that although the nation was sovereign, the states should control their internal affairs. The group saw no conflict between Article 3, which declared that sovereignty resided in the nation, and Article 6, which granted sovereignty to the states on internal matters. The moderates were able to forge shifting coalitions to pass both articles. First, they brought Article 3 to a vote. A coalition of the proponents of national sovereignty, the advocates of shared sovereignty, and a few centralists passed the article by a wide margin. To secure passage of Article 6, those favouring approval succeeded in having the question brought to the floor in two parts. The first vote, on the section of Article 6 which indicated that the states were independent and free to manage their own affairs, passed by a wide margin, since the wording pleased all the confederalist/federalist groups, including the one led by Father Mier. Only seven centralist deputies opposed the measure. Then Congress examined the section of Article 6 which declared that the states were sovereign. The coalition divided on this issue: Father Mier and his supporters joined the centralists in voting against the measure. Nevertheless, the proponents of states' rights and those who believed in shared sovereignty possessed enough strength to pass the measure by a margin of 41 to 28 votes.\n\nThe states did not just share sovereignty with the national government; they obtained the financial means to enforce their authority. They gained considerable taxing power at the expense of the federal government, which lost approximately half the revenue formerly collected by the viceregal administration. To compensate for that loss, the states were to pay the national government a contingente assessed for each state according to its means. As a result, the nation would have to depend upon the goodwill of the states to finance or fulfil its responsibilities.\n\nThe constituent congress’s decision to share sovereignty, moreover, did not settle the question of the division of power within the national government. Although all agreed on the traditional concept of separation of powers among the legislative, executive, and judicial branches, most congressmen believed that the legislature should be dominant. Recent Hispanic and Mexican experience had fostered a distrust of executive power. Therefore, the earlier Mexican Cortes had established a plural executive, the Supreme Executive Power. Since that body was perceived as subservient to the legislature, neither the provinces nor the Second Constituent Congress bothered to appoint a new executive. The authors of the Acta Constitutiva, however, proposed in Article 16 that executive power be conferred \"on an individual with the title of president of the Mexican Federation, who must be a citizen by birth of said federation and have attained at least thirty-five years of age\". The proposal led to a heated debate that transcended the former division between states’ righters and strong nationalist coalitions. While Cañedo supported Ramos Arizpe in favouring a single executive, others, including Rejón and Guridi y Alcocer, insisted on the need to weaken executive power by establishing a plural executive.\n\nRamos Arizpe proposed that the president govern with the aid of a council of government. But that was not sufficient to mollify the opposition, which had the majority in congress. The opponents of a single executive presented several counter-proposals. Demetrio Castillo of Oaxaca suggested that a president, a vice-president and an alternate, called designee, should govern. Each would have a vote, but the president would cast the deciding one. Rejón, instead, recommended that three individuals form the Supreme Executive Power; their terms would be staggered so that one member would always possess seniority, but no individual would serve more than three years. Guridi y Alcocer proposed that the executive power be conferred on two persons. He argued that the best solution was to merge the experiences of ancient Rome, Spain, and the United States. Therefore, he urged that the two members of the executive power be backed by two alternates, who might resolve any differences that arose between the two members of the executive.\n\nArticle 16 of the Acta Constitutiva was put to a vote on 2 January 1824 at an extraordinary session. It was defeated by a vote of 42 to 25. As a result, the congress did not address Article 17, which dealt with the vice-president. The proposal to establish a president and a vice-president was one of the few instances in which the second constitution of the United States served as a model. The majority did not agree with the proposal because it feared the possibility of one individual dominating Congress through military or popular forces, as Iturbide had done. The commission on the constitution revised the articles on the executive a number of times, but could not obtain support for its proposals.\n\nThe fear of provincial disorder also influenced the debate. After Articles 5 and 6 of the Acta Constitutiva had been approved, several provinces decided to implement their right to form their own government. The national administration viewed their actions with concern, particularly because some movements were also anti-European Spaniards. The revolt of 12 December in Querétaro, for example, demanded the expulsion of gachupines (Spaniards who had come to Mexico) from the country. A similar uprising occurred later in Cuernavaca. In both instances, the national government sent forces to restore order.\n\nThen, on 23 December, Puebla declared itself a sovereign, free, and independent state. The authorities in Mexico City immediately concluded that the military commander of the province, General José Antonio de Echávarri, was responsible for the \"revolt\". Therefore, the government dispatched an army under the command of Generals Manuel Gómez Pedraza and Vicente Guerrero to restore order. The forces of the national government approached the capital city of Puebla at the end of December 1823. After lengthy negotiations, General Gómez Pedraza proposed that, since Congress was about to issue the convocatoria for national and state elections, the leaders of Puebla renounce their earlier action and hold new elections. The Poblanos agreed. The convocatoria was received in Puebla on 12 January 1824. Elections were held throughout the province and a new state government was inaugurated on 22 March 1824.\n\nAlthough the national government had maintained order in the nation, the revolt led by General Jose María Lobato on 20 January 1824 demonstrated that the plural executive could not act with the unity of purpose and the speed necessary to quell a large scale uprising in the capital. The rebels demanded the dismissal of Spaniards from government jobs and their expulsion from the country. Lobato managed to win support of the garrisons in the capital and the government seemed on the verge of capitulation when the Supreme Executive Power convinced Congress to declare Lobato an outlaw and to grant the executive sufficient power to quell the rebellion. \nAs a result of the crisis, the majority in Congress eventually decided to establish an executive branch composed of a president and a vice-president. The creation of a single executive, however, did not mean that Congress had accepted a strong presidency. Most Mexicans continued to favour legislative supremacy. The Mexican charter, like the Hispanic constitution, severely restricted the power of the chief executive. The Constitution of 1824 created a quasi-parliamentary system in which the ministers of state answered to the congress. Consequently, the minister of interior and foreign relations acted as a quasi-prime minister.\n\nThe creation of a national government did not end the tensions between the provinces and Mexico City. The debate over the location of the country's capital sparked a new conflict. The national elite favoured making the \"Imperial City of Mexico\" the capital of the republic. The regional elites were divided. During 1823, while discussing the importance of local control, they also emphasised the need to maintain a \"centre of unity\", that is, a capital. However, a significant number pointedly refused to bestow that honour upon Mexico City. The special committee on the nation's capital recommended to the Constituent Congress on 31 May 1824 that another city, Querétaro, become the capital, and that the territory around it become the federal district. After a heated debate, Congress rejected the proposal to move the capital from Mexico City. Thereafter, the discussion centred on whether or not a federal district should be created. The ayuntamiento and the provincial deputation of Mexico were vehemently against such action. Indeed, the provincial legislature threatened secession and civil war if Mexico City were federalised. Nevertheless, on 30 October Congress voted fifty-two to thirty-one to make Mexico City the nation’s capital and to create a federal district.\n\nAfter months of debate, Congress ratified the constitution, on 4 October 1824. The new charter affirmed that:\nArticle 3: The religion of the Mexican nation is and will permanently be the Roman, Catholic, Apostolic [religion]. The nation protects her with wise and just laws and prohibits the exercise of any other [religion].\n\nArticle 4. The Mexican nation adopts for its government a representative, popular, federal republic.\n\nArticle 5. The parts of this federation are the following states and territories: the states of Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila and Texas, Durango, Guanajuato, México, Michoacán, Nuevo León, Oaxaca, Puebla de los Ángeles, Querétaro, San Luis Potosí, Sonora and Sinaloa, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Xalisco, Yucatán and Zacatecas; and the territories of: Alta California, Baja California, Colima Territory and Santa Fe de Nuevo México Territory. A constitutional law will determine the status of Tlaxcala.\n\nArticle 74. The supreme executive power of the federation is deposited in only one individual who shall be called President of the United States of Mexico (Estados Unidos Mexicanos).\n\nArticle 75. There will also be a vice president who, in case of the physical or moral incapacity of the president, will receive all his authority and prerogatives.\n\nLike the Acta Constitutiva, the Constitution of 1824 was modelled on the Hispanic Constitution of 1812, not, as is often asserted, on the U.S. Constitution of 1787. Although superficially similar to the second U. S. Charter, and although it adopted a few practical applications from the U.S. Constitution, such as the executive, the Mexican document was based primarily on Hispanic constitutional and legal precedents. For example, although the Constitution of 1824 created a president, in Mexico the office was subordinate to the legislature. Since the Mexican republic was essentially confederalist rather than federalist, the Mexican Charter was closer in spirit to the U.S.’s first constitution, the Articles of Confederation, than to the U.S. Constitution of 1787. Entire sections of the Cádiz Charter were repeated verbatim in the Mexican document because Mexicans did not reject their Hispanic heritage, and because some of the individuals who drafted the new republican constitution had served in the Cortes of Cádiz and had helped write the 1812 Charter. Both the Hispanic Constitution of 1812 and the Mexican Constitution of 1824 established powerful legislatures and weak executives. But it would be an error to consider the Constitution of 1824 a mere copy of the 1812 document. Events in Mexico, particularly the assertion of states’ rights by the former provinces, forced Congress to frame a constitution to meet the unique circumstances of the nation.\n\nThe principal innovations—republicanism, federalism, and a presidency—were adopted to address Mexico's new reality. The monarchy was abolished because both Fernando VII and Agustín I had failed as political leaders, not because Mexicans imitated the United States' charter. Federalism arose naturally from Mexico's earlier political experience. The provincial deputations created by the Constitution of Cádiz simply converted themselves into states. However, unlike the 1812 document, the Mexican charter gave the states significant taxing power.\n\nAlthough modelled on the Hispanic Constitution of 1812, the new charter did not address a number of issues included in the earlier document because the new Mexican federation shared sovereignty between the national government and the states. Thus, unlike the Constitution of Cádiz, which defined citizenship, the Mexican Constitution of 1824 remained silent on the subject. Similarly, it didn't define who possessed the suffrage, nor did it determine the size of the population required to establish ayuntamientos, two significant factors in determining the popular nature of the Hispanic constitutional system. These decisions were the prerogatives of the states.\n\nThe constitutions of the states of the Mexican federation varied, but they generally followed the precedents of the Constitution of Cádiz. Most state constitutions explicitly defined the people in their territory as being citizens of the state; they were chiapanecos, sonorenses, chihuahuenses, duranguenses, guanajuatenses, etc. Some states, such as Mexico and Puebla, simply referred to \"the natives and citizens of the estate\". Following the Cádiz model, all states established indirect elections. A few, however, introduced property qualifications. Many also followed the constitution of 1812 in allowing ayuntamientos in towns with more than 1,000 persons, but some raised the population requirements to 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000. Tabasco only permitted the cabeceras of the partido (district head towns) to have ayuntamientos. Article 78 of Veracruz's constitution stated that the jefe of the department \"will arrange the number and function of the ayuntamientos\".\n\nThe 1824 Constitution was composed of 7 titles and 171 articles, and was based on the Constitution of Cadiz for American issues, on the United States Constitution for the formula for federal representation and organization, and on the Constitutional Decree for the Liberty of Mexican America of 1824, which abolished the monarchy. It introduced the system of federalism in a popular representative republic with Catholicism as official religion. The 1824 constitution does not expressly state the rights of citizens. The right to equality of citizens was restricted by the continuation of military and ecclesiastical courts. The most relevant articles were:\n\nAlthough this was not stipulated in the constitution, slavery was prohibited in the Republic. Miguel Hidalgo promulgated the abolition in Guadalajara on 6 December 1810. President Guadalupe Victoria declared slavery abolished too, but it was President Vicente Guerrero who made the decree of \"Abolition of Slavery\" on 15 September 1829.\n\nAt the time of the promulgation of the Constitution, the nation was composed of 19 free states and 3 territories. That same year, two changes were made in the structure, resulting finally in 19 free states, 5 territories and the federal district.\n\nDue to the influence of Spanish liberal thought, the fragmentation that had been gradually consolidated by the Bourbon Reforms in New Spain, the newly won Independence of Mexico, the size of the territory—almost 4,600,000 km² (1,776,069 sq mi)—and lack of easy communication across distances, there resulted a federal system with regional characteristics. The central states—Mexico, Puebla, Querétaro, Guanajuato, Veracruz and Michoacán—which were the most populated, worked as an administrative decentralization. The states of the periphery—Zacatecas, Coahuila y Texas, Durango, Chihuahua, Jalisco, San Luis Potosí and Nuevo León—acquired a moderate confederalism. The states furthest from the center—Yucatán, Sonora y Sinaloa, Tamaulipas and Las Californias—acquired a radical confederalism.\n\nWithout the existence of established political parties, three political tendencies are distinguished. The first still supported the empire of Iturbide, but was a minority. The second was influenced by the Yorkist Lodge of freemasonry, whose philosophy was radical Federalism and also encouraged an anti-Spanish sentiment largely promoted by the American plenipotentiary Joel Roberts Poinsett. And the third was influenced by the Scottish Lodge of freemasonry, which had been introduced to Mexico by the Spaniards themselves, favored Centralism, and yearned for the recognition of the new nation by Spain and the Holy See.\n\nWith the consummation of independence, the \"Royal Patronage\" was gone, the federal government and state governments now considered these rights to belong to the State. The way to manage church property was the point that most polarized the opinions of the political class. Members of the Yorkist Lodge intended to use church property to clean up the finances, the members of the Scottish Lodge considered the alternative anathema. According to the federal commitment, states should provide an amount of money and men for the army, or \"blood quota\". The federal budget was insufficient to pay debt, defense, and surveillance of borders, and states resisted meeting the \"blood quota\", sometimes meeting that debt with criminals.\n\nSome state constitutions were more radical and took supplies to practice \"patronage\" locally, under the banner of \"freedom and progress\". The constitutions of Jalisco and Tamaulipas decreed government funding of religion, the constitutions of Durango and the State of Mexico allowed the governor the practice of \"patronage\", the constitution of Michoacán gave the local legislature the power to regulate the enforcement of fees and discipline of clergy, and the constitution of Yucatán, in a vanguardist way, decreed freedom of religion.\n\nIn 1835, there was a drastic shift to the new Mexican Nation. The triumph of conservative forces in the elections unleashed a series of events that culminated on 23 October 1835, during the interim presidency of Miguel Barragán (the constitutional president was Antonio López de Santa Anna, but he was out of office), when the \"Basis of Reorganization of the Mexican Nation\" was approved, which ended the federal system and established a provisional centralist system. On 30 December 1836, interim president José Justo Corro issued the Seven Constitutional Laws, which replaced the Constitution. Secondary laws were approved on 24 May 1837.\n\nThe Seven Constitutional Laws, among other things, replaced the \"free states\" with French-style \"departments\", centralizing national power in Mexico City. This created an era of political instability, unleashing conflicts between the central government and the former states. Rebellions arose in various places, the most important of which were:\n\n\nThe Texas annexation and the border conflict after the annexation led to the Mexican–American War. As a result, the Constitution of 1824 was restored by interim President José Mariano Salas on 22 August 1846. In 1847, \"The Reform Act\" was published, which officially incorporated, with some changes, the Federal Constitution of 1824, to operate while the next constitution was drafted. This federalist phase culminated in 1853.\n\nThe Plan of Ayutla, which had a federalist orientation, was proclaimed on 1 March 1854. In 1855, Juan Álvarez, interim President of the Republic, issued the call for the Constituent Congress, which began its work on 17 February 1856 to produce the Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12797264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12797264", "title": "Anti Video Piracy Association of Singapore", "text": "Anti Video Piracy Association of Singapore\n\nAnti Video Piracy Association of Singapore (AVPAS) is a copy protection consortium with other anime producers founded by Odex on 30 July 2003. The association lists over 400 titles (as of 25 May 2007) and is supported by at least one governmental agency. AVPAS is not a governmental agency by itself. It aims to monitor and combat the unauthorized distribution of video related rights, in particular anime and Japanese-related Intellectual Property. The website technically is being maintained by NetroAsia. Its main committee members are Dr. Toh See Kiat (AVPAS president), Go Wei Ho Peter (AVPAS vice president and Odex director), Sing Xin Yang (AVPAS secretary and Odex director) and Yong Yet Yuen (AVPAS Secretary).\n\nThe organisation, along with Odex, gained considerable prominence in mid-2007 due to Odex's legal actions against Internet users in Singapore, which were ultimately rejected by the Court in January 2008.\n\nUp to date, the AVPAS has only been known to have created a website which features the Odex Clarification Article on their homepage, has pictures of bootlegged anime and Japanese video CDs and contains a list of authorised titles.\n\nAccording to the \"Odex Clarification Article\" on the AVPAS website, the AVPAS has also been said to have authorised Odex to carry out demands of money from anime downloaders. However, the AVPAS has not publicly announced its authorisation and has not commented on whether this claim by Odex is true or false.\n\nThe title \"AVPAS\" may mislead people into believing that AVPAS is a government organization or an organization registered with the Registry of Societies (ROS). The AVPAS is also not a commercial entity by itself (not registered with ACRA) but is registered by NETROASIA PTE LTD, the \"technical admin\" for ODEX.\n\nNetizens virtually unanimously agree that they did not even know about the existence of AVPAS before the Odex Saga.\n\nThe domain name for the AVPAS website was registered in April 2007, three months before Odex started the saga in July to September 2007.\n\nAbout its sudden prominence in mid-2007, which coincided with Odex's rise to notoriety among Netizens, there have been concerns raised regarding the legitimacy and purpose of AVPAS, especially since its main committee is dominated by the Odex directors. The AVPAS website appears to have ceased from being updated since 31 August 2007, which is coincidentally the beginning of the period when the Odex Saga started to blow over in mainstream media.\n\nDespite being self-dubbed the Anti Video Piracy Association of Singapore, the AVPAS does not seem to be interested in monitoring or combating the copyright violation of non-anime or non-Japanese films as the only titles listed or displayed on its website are either anime or Japanese video titles. No publicly known action has been taken by the AVPAS against file sharers dabbling in non-anime and non-Japanese videos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1586266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586266", "title": "Blood quantum laws", "text": "Blood quantum laws\n\nBlood quantum laws or Indian blood laws are those enacted in the United States and the former Thirteen colonies to define qualification by ancestry as Native American, sometimes in relation to tribal membership. These laws were developed by European Americans and thus did not necessarily reflect how Native Americans had traditionally identified themselves or members of their in-group, and thus ignored the Native American practices of absorbing other peoples by adoption, beginning with other Native Americans, and extending to children and young adults of European and African ancestry. Blood quantum laws also ignored tribal cultural continuity after tribes had absorbed such adoptees and multiracial children. Tribal enrollments were often incomplete or inaccurate because individuals refused to enroll because they didn't trust the government, families relocated before censuses were taken, or individuals were incorrectly identified by white men, who were the census takers. \n\nA person's blood quantum (abbreviated as BQ) is defined as the percentage of their ancestors, out of their total ancestors, who are documented as full-blood Native Americans. For instance, a person who has one parent who is a full-blood Native American and one who has no Native ancestry has a blood quantum of 1/2. Since re-establishing self-government and asserting sovereignty, some tribes may use blood quantum as part of their requirements for membership or enrollment, often in combination with other criteria. For instance, the Omaha Nation requires a blood quantum of 1/4 Native American and descent from a registered ancestor for enrollment.\n\nIn 1705 the Colony of Virginia adopted laws that limited civil rights of Native Americans and persons of one-half or more Native American ancestry. The concept of blood quantum was not widely applied by the United States government until the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934. At that time, the government required persons to have a certain blood quantum to be recognized as Native American and be eligible for financial and other benefits under treaties or sales of land.\n\nSince that time, however, Native American nations have re-established their own governments, asserting sovereignty in setting their own rules for tribal membership, which vary among them. In some cases, individuals may qualify as tribal members, but not as American Indian for the purposes of certain federal benefits, which are still defined in relation to blood quantum. In the early 21st century, some tribes, such as the Cherokee and Wampanoag, tightened their membership rules and excluded persons who had previously been considered members. Challenges to such policies have been pursued by those excluded. Though individuals can self-identify as Native American, Native Americans are the only racial group in the United States that has to have proof of ancestry to receive government benefits.\n\nEuropean Americans passed \"Indian Blood law\" or blood quantum law to regulate who would be classified as Native American. The Constitution uses the word “Indian” twice but never bothers to define it. The first such law was passed in 1705 in the Colony of Virginia, to define Native Americans and to restrict the civil rights of people who were half or more Native American. In the 19th and 20th centuries, the US government believed tribal members had to be defined, for the purposes of federal benefits or annuities paid under treaties resulting from land cessions.\n\nMany traditionalist Native Americans, known as “irreconcilables” or “blanket Indians,” were so suspicious of the government that they refused to enroll at all, making all their descendants unenrollable as well. Many Native American tribes did not use blood quantum law until the government introduced the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934. Some tribes, such as the Navajo Nation, did not adopt the type of written constitution suggested in that law until the 1950s. Given intermarriage among tribes, particularly those that are closely related and have settled near each other, critics object to the federal requirement that individuals identify as belonging to only one tribe when defining blood quantum. They believe this reduces an individual's valid membership in more than one tribe, as well as costing some persons their qualification as Native American because of having ancestry from more than one tribe but not 1/4 or more from one tribe. Overall, the numbers of registered members of many Native American tribes have been reduced because of tribal laws that define and limit the definition of acceptable blood quantum.\n\n\"The U.S. census decennial enumerations indicate a Native American population growth for the United States that has been nearly continuous since 1900 (except for an influenza epidemic in 1918 that caused serious losses), to 1.42 million by 1980 and to over 1.9 million by 1990.\" In the 2000 census, there were 2.5 million American Indians. Since 1960, people may self-identify their ancestry on the US Census. Indian activism and a rising interest in Native American history appear to have resulted in more individuals identifying as having Native American ancestry on the census.\n\nFor decades, individual tribes had established their own requirements for membership. In some cases, they have excluded members who had long been part of the tribe. Common tribal membership requirements required documented lineal descent from a Native American member listed on a prior tribal rations-issue roll, or the Dawes Rolls for the 'Five Civilized Tribes' in Oklahoma, or a late 19th-century census; in some cases they may also require a certain percentage of Native American ancestry, and demonstrated residence with a tribe or commitment to the community. Unlike the provisions of the Indian Reorganization Act, many tribes allow members to claim ancestry in more than one tribe. For instance, the Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians accept persons of 1/4 North American Indian ancestry, plus documented descent from an ancestor listed in specific records. In part, this recognizes that the Odawa people historically had a territory on both sides of what is now the border between the US and Canada.\n\nEach federally recognized tribe has established its own criteria for membership. Given the new revenues that many tribes are realizing from gambling casinos and other economic development, or from settlement of 19th-century land claims, some have established more restrictive rules to limit membership.\n\nIn 2007 the Cherokee Nation voted in the majority to exclude as members those Cherokee Freedmen who had no documented ancestors on the Cherokee-by-blood list of the Dawes Rolls. However, the Cherokee Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that they were legitimate members of the tribe at that time. After the Civil War, the US required the Cherokee and other Native American tribes that had supported the Confederacy to make new treaties. They also required them to emancipate their slaves, and to give full tribal membership to those freedmen who wanted to stay in tribal territory. The Cherokee Freedmen often had intermarried and some had Cherokee ancestry at the time of the Dawes Rolls, qualifying as Cherokee by blood, but registrars typically classified them as Freedmen; registration was often inaccurate. Many individuals also refused to enroll or become documented because they didn't trust the government. \n\nSimilarly, in 2000, the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma attempted to exclude two bands of Seminole Freedmen from membership to avoid including them in settlement of land claims in Florida, where Seminole Freedmen had also owned land taken by the US government.\n\nSince 1942, the Seminole have at times tried to exclude Black Seminoles from the tribe. The freedmen were listed separately on the Dawes Rolls and suffered segregation in Oklahoma. More recently, the Seminole refused to share with them the revenues of 20th-century US government settlements of land claims. The Center for Constitutional Rights has filed an \"amicus\" brief, taking up the legal case of the Black Seminoles and criticizing some officials of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for collaborating in this discrimination by supporting tribal autonomy in lawsuits. By treaty, after the American Civil War, the Seminole were required to emancipate slaves and provide Black Seminoles with all the rights of full-blood Indian members.\n\nAmerican Indian tribes located on reservations tend to have higher blood quantum requirements for membership than those located off reservation...[reference to table] [O]ver 85 percent of tribes requiring more than a one-quarter blood quantum for membership are reservation based, as compared with less than 64 percent of those having no minimum requirement. Tribes on reservations have seemingly been able to maintain exclusive membership by setting higher blood quanta, since the reservation location has generally served to isolate the tribe from non-Indians and intermarriage with them.\n\nMany Native Americans have become used to the idea of \"blood quantum\". The blood quantum laws have caused problems in Native American families whose members were inaccurately recorded as having differing full or partial descent from particular tribes. In some cases, family members or entire families have been excluded from being enrolled as members of their tribe even when they have no non-Native American ancestors.\n\nAt certain times, some state governments classified persons with African American and Native American admixture solely as African American, largely because of racial discrimination related to slavery history and the concept of the one drop rule. This was prevalent in the South after Reconstruction, when white-dominated legislatures imposed legal segregation, which classified the entire population only as white or colored (Native Americans, some of whom were of mixed race, were included in the latter designation). It related to the racial caste system of slavery before the American Civil War. Until 1870 there was no separate classification on the census for Indian.\n\nThe Lumbee, a group that appeared to organize from a variety of free people of color on the North Carolina frontier in the 19th century, achieved state recognition as Croatan Indian in 1885 after Reconstruction. This separate status allowed them to establish a school system for their children distinct from that for freedmen's children.\n\nThe question of identity is complex. Researcher Paul Heinegg and Dr. Virginia DeMarce found that ancestors of 80 percent of free people of color (including individuals on the census later claimed as Lumbee ancestors) in the 1790 and 1810 censuses on the North Carolina frontier were descended from families of white women and African men, and were free in colonial Virginia because of the mother's status. Many mixed-race people in frontier areas identified as Indian, Portuguese or Arab to escape racial strictures.\n\nIn 1952 the Croatan Indians voted to adopt the name of Lumbee. (They were settled near the Lumber River, also called the Lumbee.) They achieved limited federal recognition in 1956 as an ethnic Indian nation by a special act of the US Congress, and accepted at the time that it was without benefits. Since then, they have tried to appeal to Congress for legislation to gain full federal recognition. Their effort has been opposed by several federally recognized tribes.\n\nIn other cases, because mixed-race children were often raised in the mother's Native American culture, U.S. society considered them Native American, despite European ancestry. (As the trappers, traders and soldiers on the frontiers were mostly men, for some time most European-Native American unions were between European men and Native women.)\n\nIn 1924 Virginia passed the Racial Integrity Act, which required that every individual be classified as either white or black. (Some other states adopted similar laws.) In application, the law was enforced to the standard of the \"one drop rule\": individuals with any known African ancestry were classified as black. As a result, in the censuses of the 1930s and the 1940s, particularly in the South's segregated society, many people of African American and Native American heritage who were either biracial or multiracial were largely classified as black, even though they identified culturally as Native American. The result negatively affected many individuals with mixed African American and Native American heritage. Because there are few reservations in the South, such individuals had to provide evidence of ancestry to enroll in a tribe. The changes in historic records erased their documentation of continuity of identity as Indian. During the early years of slavery, some Native Americans and Africans intermarried because they were enslaved at the same time and shared a common experience of enslavement. Others made unions before slavery became institutionalized, as they worked together.\n\nToday, the proposed regulations for children adopted into Native families are that they may not be federally recognized members unless they have a biological parent who is enrolled in a tribe. Such cases of adoption are probably less frequent than in the past. Historically, especially recorded during the colonial years and the 19th century in the American West, many tribes adopted young captives taken in war or raids to replace members who had died. Whether European or of another Native American tribe, the captives generally were fully assimilated into the tribal culture and were considered full members of the tribe. Generally, they remained with the tribe, marrying other members and rearing their children within the cultural tradition.\n\nIn some cases, census rolls for tribes such as the Cherokee were incomplete due to intermarriage, immigration, treaties, or because the members were not living within the boundaries of the nation, and thus would not be recorded on the census. However, as noted above many people have identified as Native American on the US Census but are not eligible for tribal enrollment.\n\nSome critics argue that blood quantum laws helped create racism among tribal members. The historian Tony Seybert contends that was why some members of the so-called Five Civilized tribes were slaveholders. The majority of slave owners were of mixed-European ancestry. Some believed they were of higher status than full-blood Indians and people of African ancestry. Other historians contend that the Cherokee and other tribes held slaves because it was in their economic interest and part of the general southeastern culture. Cherokee and other tribes had also traditionally taken captives in warfare to use as slaves, though their institution differed from what developed in the southern colonies.\n\nNo federally recognized tribe enrolls members solely based on DNA testing, as it generally cannot distinguish among tribes. Some tribes may require DNA testing only to document that a child is related to particular parents. Many researchers have published articles that caution that genetic ancestry DNA testing has limitations and should not be depended on by individuals to answer all their questions about heritage.\n\nMany African Americans believe they have some Native American ancestry. But, in the PBS series led by historian Henry Louis Gates, Jr., called \"African American Lives\", geneticists said DNA evidence shows that African-Native American admixture is relatively rare. Gates summarized the data:\nOnly 5 percent of African Americans have at least one-eighth Native American ancestry (equivalent to one great-grandparent). On the other hand, nearly 78 percent of African Americans have at least one-eighth European ancestry (the equivalent to a great-grandparent), and nearly 20 percent have at least one-quarter European ancestry (the equivalent to a grandparent.)Some authors, who assert a much higher percentage of Native American ancestry, base their opinion on subjective assessment of how some African Americans look.\n\nSome critics thought the PBS series \"African American Lives\" did not sufficiently explain such limitations of DNA testing for assessment of heritage. In terms of persons searching for ethnic ancestry, they need to understand that Y-chromosome and mtDNA (mitochondrial DNA) testing looks only at \"direct\" line male and female ancestors, and thus can fail to pick up many other ancestors' heritage. Newer DNA tests can survey all the DNA that can be inherited from either parent of an individual, but at a cost of precision. DNA tests that survey the full DNA strand focus on \"single nucleotide polymorphisms\" or SNPs, but SNPs might be found in Africans, Asians, and people from every other part of the world. Full survey DNA testing cannot accurately determine an individual's full ancestry. Though DNA testing for ancestry is limited more recent genetic testing research of 2015, have found that varied ancestries show different tendencies by region and sex of ancestors. These studies found that on average, African Americans have 73.2-82.1% West African, 16.7%-29% European, and 0.8–2% Native American genetic ancestry, with large variation between individuals.\n\nMany Native American tribes continue to employ blood quantum in current tribal laws to determine who is eligible for membership or citizenship in the tribe or Native American nation. These often require a minimum degree of blood relationship and often an ancestor listed in a specific tribal census from the late 19th century or early 20th century. The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians of North Carolina, for example, require an ancestor listed in the 1924 Baker census and a minimum of 1/16 Cherokee blood inherited from their ancestor(s) on that roll. Meanwhile, the Cherokee Nation requires applicants to descend from an ancestor in the 1906 Dawes roll (direct lineal ancestry), but does not impose minimum blood quantum requirement. The United Keetoowah Band requires a minimum 1/4 blood quantum.\n\nThe Ute require a 5/8 blood quantum, the highest requirement of any American tribe. The Miccosukee of Florida, the Mississippi Choctaw, and the St. Croix Chippewa of Wisconsin all require one-half \"tribal blood quantum\", also a high percentage.\n\nAt the other end of the scale, some tribes, such as the Kaw Nation, have no blood quantum requirement.\n\nMany tribes, such as Alabama-Quassarte Tribal Town and the Wyandotte Nation, require an unspecified amount of Indian ancestry (known as \"lineal descendancy\") documented by descent from a recognized member. Others require a specified degree of Indian ancestry but an unspecified share of ancestry from the ancestral tribe or tribes from which the contemporary tribal entity is derived, such as the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians and the Poarch Band of Creek Indians. Many tribes today are confederations of different ethnic groups joined into a single political entity making the determination of blood quantum challenging.\n\nOther tribes require a minimum blood degree only for tribal members born \"off\" (outside) the nominal reservation. This is a concept comparable to the legal principles of \"Jus soli\" and \"Jus sanguinis\" in the nationality laws of modern sovereign states.\n\n\n\n\n\nThese tribes do not have a minimum blood quantum requirement, but members must be able to document descent from original enrollees of tribal rolls.\n\nThese tribes require both a specified blood quantum and lineal descent from an individual on a designated tribal roll.\n\n"}
{"id": "23553420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23553420", "title": "Borrowing statute", "text": "Borrowing statute\n\nWithin the United States, a statute of limitations is typically deemed to be a procedural law, meaning that a state will ordinarily apply its own statute of limitations to any case that is filed within its courts. A borrowing statute, is a statute under which a U.S. state may \"borrow\" a shorter statute of limitations for a cause of action arising in another jurisdiction. The purpose of borrowing statutes is to prevent plaintiffs from engaging in forum shopping in order to find the longest available statute of limitations.\n\nA borrowing statute is applied where a plaintiff sues in a state different from the state where the act that is the basis of the lawsuit occurred. For example, if a person is injured in a car accident in state A, that person may sue the at-fault driver in state B (presuming state B has jurisdiction, usually because it is the driver's home state). If the state in which the lawsuit is filed has a borrowing statute, that state will usually apply the other state's statute of limitations, as long as it is a \"shorter\" statute of limitations than that of the borrowing state.\n\nIn determining which state is the one in which the cause of action arose, states will apply various choice of law principles, which may be very complicated. States that do not have borrowing statutes may apply their own statutes of limitation to most or all lawsuits filed in their state courts, although at times they may apply an out-of-state limitations period based upon a choice of law analysis.\n\nIn some states, the borrowing statute will only be applied if the plaintiff was not a resident of that state at the time the cause of action accrued; in others, it will only apply if the defendant was not a resident. Some states limit the use of borrowing statutes to specific types of cases, such as breach of contract actions.\n"}
{"id": "30844422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30844422", "title": "CME/Lauder v. Czech Republic", "text": "CME/Lauder v. Czech Republic\n\nThe CME v. Czech Republic and Lauder v. Czech Republic were parallel cases decided by two different arbitral tribunals in 2001. The difference in the two cases' outcomes is a prime example of conflicting decisions in international arbitration and is the subject of many treatises, with some authors going as far as calling it \"the ultimate fiasco in investment arbitration\".\n\nIn 1993, US national Ronald Steven Lauder invested in Czech private television broadcaster TV Nova through his German company (which was later succeeded by the Dutch company Central European Media (CME)). Some 20 suits started in front of the Czech courts and international tribunals, including UNCITRAL arbitrations CME v. Czech Republic and Lauder v. Czech Republic, after his business partner, Czech citizen Vladimír Železný, effectively deprived CME of its investment by breaking off the deal between Lauder's and Železný's companies. CME and Lauder respectively sought damages for the alleged interference of the Czech Media Council, a government entity granting broadcasting licences, into the business arrangements between Lauder's and Železný's companies, which supposedly eventually contributed to losses experienced by Lauder. Effectively dealing with the same facts\n, the tribunals handed down two contradictory arbitral awards: one dismissed the claim by Lauder, while the other awarded CME damages of $270 million and 10% interest. Finally, Czech Republic paid $355 million.\n\nFollowing the Velvet Revolution in 1989, the once again democratic Czechoslovakia closed a number of bilateral investment treaties in order to attract investments. In 1991, Czechoslovakia concluded one bilateral investment treaty with the United States (\"USA-CZ treaty\") and another with the Netherlands (\"NL-CZ treaty\"). During the same year a new Media law was passed, under which the Media Council was created in order to grant broadcasting licences. The Czech Republic became a successor to these treaties following the dissolution of Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn 1992 a small group of Czech citizens founded a company called Central European Television 21 (CET 21) in order to acquire a licence for television broadcasting. CET 21 was cooperating with Central European Development Corporation (CEDC) effectively owned through another company by Ronald Lauder. Together they formed a new joint company named Česká nezávislá televizní společnost (ČNTS) with the participation of CET21, a Czech bank and, as a majority shareholder, a company representing the foreign investor. The key person Vladimír Železný became head of both CET21 and ČNTS. The newly established TV station TV Nova immediately became popular and very profitable. However, in 1999 Železný was fired from ČNTS. Subsequently, CET21 terminated its contract with ČNTS, after the latter failed to submit the Daily Log regarding the broadcasting for the next day.\n\nThe Media Council attempted to influence the relationship between the CET21 and ČNTS: firstly when the council granted a licence in 1992 and 1993, then after a new Media Law became effective around 1996, and finally in 1999 when the breach between the two companies happened.\n\nOn 19 August 1999, Ronald Lauder, majority owner of CME, which was in turn the majority owner of ČNTS, started UNCITRAL arbitration against the Czech Republic under the USA-CZ treaty (\"London arbitration\"). Meanwhile, on 22 February 2000, CME initiated parallel UNCITRAL arbitration proceedings against the Czech Republic under the NL-CZ treaty (\"Stockholm arbitration\").\n\nLauder and CME sought similar relief in the London and Stockholm arbitrations respectively:\n\nThe Czech Republic sought this relief in the arbitrations:\n\nThe tribunals had to deal with a number of procedural issues. Firstly it was the fact, that the same dispute was submitted to the Czech courts, to the other arbitration in Stockholm/London respectively, and also to ICC as a proceeding between Železný and CME. The London arbitration observed, that neither Lauder nor the Czech Republic are parties to any of the numerous proceedings, and that none of these courts would decide on the basis of the USA-CZ treaty and that the concurrent Stockholm arbitration will base its decision on the NL-CZ treaty. On the other hand, the Stockholm arbitration stressed that \"\"a party may seek its legal protection under any scheme provided by the laws of the host country ... \"(and that both bilateral investment treaties)\" are part of the laws of the Czech Republic and neither of the treaties supersedes the other.\" The London panel noted, that collecting damages by the Claimant in either of the processes may reduce the damage claimed in the present proceeding, and it further pointed out, that the Czech Republic refused \"de facto\" consolidation of the two proceedings by insisting on different arbitral tribunals in the cases, rather than having the same tribunal decide both, as proposed by Lauder and CME.\n\nThe London tribunal held that the Czech Republic \"\"did not take any measure of, or tantamount to, expropriation of the Claimant's property rights within any of the time periods, since there was no direct or indirect interference by the Czech Republic in the use of Mr. Lauder's property or with the enjoyment of its benefits\".\"\n\nNevertheless the London tribunal found violation of the US-CZ treaty (prohibition against arbitrary and discriminatory measures) as regards acts of the Media Council in the year 1993, when the Media Council insisted on CEDC (affiliated with CME) not becoming a direct shareholder of CET21: the Media Council was concerned with the prospect of direct participation by a foreign investor in the holder of nation-wide broadcasting licence (CET21). A new entity ČNTS was therefore created with CEDC contributing 75% of CNTS' capital while obtaining 66% ownership, a Czech bank contributing 25% of capital while obtaining 22% ownership and CET21 contributing \"the right to use, benefit from, and maintain the License (...) on an unconditional, irrevocable and exclusive basis\" while obtaining 12% ownership.\n\nOne of the Media Council's aims was to prevent direct participation of foreign capital in license holders. The arrangement in 1993 was therefore as follows: CET21 was the licence holder, CEDC provided the majority of capital, and their joint company ČNTS did the actual broadcasting. The Stockholm award evaluated the 1993 development as follows: \"\"The Media Council violated the \"(NL-CZ)\" Treaty when dismantling the legal basis of the foreign investor's investments by forcing the foreign investor’s joint venture company ČNTS to give up substantial accrued legal rights.\" The Respondent's objection, that the Media Council would not exercise its power, or if it did, the investor would be able to seek a remedy against the Council's decision in front of the Czech courts, was evaluated as follows: \"A threat does not become legal upon the victim's surrender to the threat and the surrender cannot be deemed as waiver of its legal rights.\"\"\n\nIn 1995 the Media law was amended. The most relevant modification was that the Media Council could no longer include conditions for the broadcasting operator in its decision to grant a license. Also, the new law had a much narrower definition of the term \"broadcaster\" as the person to whom a license was granted. Following the change of the law, the CET21 asked for the removal of condition No. 17, which was safeguarding the split structure of licence-holder and operator. Subsequently, the Media Council requested expert opinion regarding the ČNTS' authority to operate television broadcasting. Dr. Jan Bárta of the State and Law Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic rendered a legal opinion within one week after the request, which concluded that CET21 does not operate broadcasting and never did, whereas ČNTS was broadcasting without authority. The Stockholm award labeled circumstances of the rendering of Barta's opinion as \"\"dubious\" and concluded that \"Barta's opinion was requested by the Media Council simply as a tool to cover up the reversal of the Council's legal position towards CET21 and the foreign investor CEDC/CME\".\n\nThe companies set forward to modify the arrangement in order to address the concerns expressed by the expert opinion. In doing so, they consulted the Media Council, which in turn requested further expert opinion. After meetings with the Media Council, the companies entered a new agreement in May 1996 setting forth their legal relationship: in substance, CET21 was the holder of the License and the operator of television broadcasting, the License was non-transferable, and was not the subject of a contribution from CET21 to ČNTS. ČNTS' role was to arrange the television broadcasting.\n\nIn June 1996 the Media Council informed CET21 that the latter had breached the License by failing to make a timely announcement of changes in the registered capital, in the signing process, and in the company's registered office. It directed CET21 and ČNTS to change their registration with the Commercial Registry, particularly to modify ČNTS' business activity with respect to \"television broadcasting\". Meanwhile, in June 1996 a criminal investigation started with respect to CET21's and ČNTS' rights to administer TV Nova. Then, in July 1996, the Media Council started administrative proceedings against the ČNTS for broadcasting without authorization. Meanwhile, in August 1996, CME and Mr. Železný entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which the former would provide the latter with a loan of $4,700,000 for acquiring 47% of CET21's stock from the other individual shareholders. The agreement provided for Mr. Železný to exercise all his voting rights as directed by CME until full repayment of the loan. The Media Council was not informed of the change in CET21's ownership. In November, the agreement between the companies was further amended, so that ČNTS was granted the unconditional, irrevocable, and exclusive right to use and maintain the know-how and make it a source of profit for the Company, in connection with the License, its maintenance and protection. In addition, ČNTS was granted the right to acquire the License from CET21 in the case of change in the legal regulation and prevailing interpretation of the legal community.\n\nAssessment of the situation by the two tribunals differs significantly. The London tribunal found, that there were several facts casting doubt on whether CET21 or ČNTS was actually operating the broadcasting of TV Nova: ČNTS' entry in the Commercial Registry stated that the business activity was \"operating television broadcasting on the basis of the license no. 001/1003\", ČNTS had entered into agreements with other companies for the dissemination of broadcasting, at the time Železný was head of both companies, and finally, most activities in connection with TV Nova were performed from ČNTS' large premises in Prague with an important staff, whereas CET21 had a much smaller organisation. Therefore, it assessed \"all these facts lead to confusion of the roles actually played by ČNTS and CET21 and the Media Council could legitimately fear that a situation had arisen where there had been a de facto transfer of the License from CET21 to ČNTS ... The commencement of the administrative proceedings against ČNTS for alleged unauthorized broadcasting constituted the normal exercise of the regulatory duties of the Media Council \"(and)\" was not arbitrary\".\"\n\nMeanwhile, the Stockholm award states that \"\"the events in 1996 as documented by the exhibits to the parties' submissions are decisive in sustaining the conclusion that the Media Council in 1996 forced ČNTS and CME to agree to undermine the legal protection of CME's investment\".\"\n\nAccording to the Stockholm award all this was done in order to \"re-establish its control over the broadcasting operations of CET21/ČNTS\" which was lost due to the amendment of the Media act, which took away the Council's power to grant license subject to conditions. The London award on the same issue found that \"\"the main reason for the Media Council to direct CME, CET21 and ČNTS to bring some modifications was the same as the ground for initiating the administrative proceedings \"(...)\" i.e. the fear that the unclear legal and factual situation could actually amount to a de facto transfer of the License from CET21 to ČNTS, in violation of Media Law.\"\n\nThe Stockholm award went as far as stating, that \"the Media Council was obliged to defend and secure \"(1993 ČNTS/CET21/CEDC structure) \" after having attracted foreign investment on the basis of it.\" That, according to the Stockholm award, amounted to breach of the NL-CZ treaty by \"\"coercing CME and ČNTS to give up legal security for CME's investment in the Czech Republic.\"\n\nOn 5 August 1999, CET21 terminated its contractual relationship with ČNTS, after the latter failed to supply the Daily Log.\n\nThe events leading to this are described by the London tribunal as follows: \"Between 1997 and 1999 the Media Council did not want to take sides with respect to the dispute between CET21 and ČNTS, which was considered a commercial dispute. In particular, the Media Council's letter of March 15, 1999, whose wording is different from the one requested by Mr. Železný, expressed the Media Council's policy in a lawful and non-discriminatory manner.\"\n\nStockholm tribunal's assessment differed significantly: \"In 1999, the Media Council actively supported the destruction of CME's investment in ČNTS\".\" Assessing the same letter of March 15, 1999, the Stockholm tribunal held: \"The Media Council was obviously working hand-in-hand with Dr. Železný when supporting Dr. Železný in his attack upon CME's already fragile basis for CME's investment in ČNTS.\n\nThe London Tribunal in conclusion held that \"none of the actions or inactions of the Media Council caused a direct or indirect damage to Mr. Lauder's investment. The action which actually caused the Claimant to lose part of his investment was the termination by CET21 of its contractual relationship in 1999\".\"\n\nThe Stockholm Tribunal in conclusion held that \"\"The destruction of CME's investment after the termination of the Service Agreement on August 5, 1999 was the consequence of the Media Council's actions and inactions\".\"\n\nThe London Tribunal decided, that a breach of US-CZ treaty occurred in 1993, that there were no other breaches of the treaty and it denied all claims for damages. (with fees, travel and other expenses incurred by the arbitrators being $501,370,20.)\n\nThe Stockholm tribunal decided that the Czech Republic breached all the Articles as sought by the CME. In the final decision, it awarded CME damages of $269,814,000 plus 10% interest from the date of arbitration per annum and $1,007,749.81 of costs (with same interests).\n\nArbitrator Jaroslav Hándl did not sign the partial CME award and made a dissenting opinion with reservations partially about facts and especially about the legal conclusions. He wrote, that \"\"mistakes and errors in the legal conclusions have been caused basically by the fact, that the two arbitrators seem to have firstly agreed upon the final decision as it is expressed in the Award and only thereafter they looked for the arguments to the favour of the Claimant\", that \"principally the parties to this dispute did never have an equal position\" and that he was \"excluded from any discussion\"\" as the two other arbitrators alone worked on the award.\n\nWhile the final award was signed by all arbitrators, Professor Ian Brownlie, who replaced Mr Hándl, wrote a separate opinion challenging many aspects of the award.\n\nFinal decision (including damages calculation) of the Stockholm tribunal was issued on 14 March 2003. Subsequently, the Czech Republic petitioned the Svea Court of Appeal to set aside the decision, mostly using the Jaroslav Hándl´s dissenting opinion. Simultaneously the Czech Republic and CME agreed, that the Czech Republic will immediately pay damages and costs of the decision to the escrow account with 1.2% interest and CME will not enforce the decision until the decision of Svea Court. On 4 April 2003 the Czech republic paid $354,943,542 on the escrow account and on 13 May 2003 the Czech republic lost the case at the Svea court.\n\nSince 1999 influence of Vladimír Železný in TV Nova licence holder CET 21 declined. Jiří Šmejc's MEF Holding increased its influence by providing money for new start of TV Nova, in 2002 Petr Kellner's PPF started to be strongly involved. Due to numerous legal disputes between Vladimír Železný, MEF Holding and PPF the ownership structure of CET 21 was unknown. On 14 May 2003 Vladimír Železný was removed from post of CEO of CET21, on 8 October 2003 PPF bought majority stake in ČNTS from CME for app. 1.45 CZK billion ($53.2 million) to end numerous distupes arising from 1999 events. Finally in December 2004 CME announced to acquire majority stake in CET21 from PPF for $642 millions and thus to control TV Nova again.\n"}
{"id": "407082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407082", "title": "Carl Schmitt", "text": "Carl Schmitt\n\nCarl Schmitt (; ; 11 July 1888 – 7 April 1985) was a conservative German jurist and political theorist. Schmitt wrote extensively about the effective wielding of political power. His work has been a major influence on subsequent political theory, legal theory, continental philosophy and political theology, and remains both influential and controversial due to his close association and juridical-political allegiance with Nazism. He is known as the \"crown jurist of the Third Reich\".\n\nSchmitt's work has attracted the attention of numerous philosophers and political theorists, including Giorgio Agamben, Hannah Arendt, Walter Benjamin, Susan Buck-Morss, Jacques Derrida, Jürgen Habermas, Waldemar Gurian, Jaime Guzmán, Friedrich Hayek, Chantal Mouffe, Antonio Negri, Leo Strauss, Adrian Vermeule, and Slavoj Žižek among others.\n\nSchmitt was born in Plettenberg, Westphalia, German Empire. His parents were Roman Catholics from the German Eifel region who had settled in Plettenberg. His father was a minor businessman. He studied law at Berlin, Munich and Strasbourg and took his graduation and state examinations in then-German Strasbourg during 1915. His 1910 doctoral thesis was titled \"Über Schuld und Schuldarten\" (\"On Guilt and Types of Guilt\").\n\nHe volunteered for the army during 1916. The same year, he earned his habilitation at Strasbourg with a thesis under the title \"Der Wert des Staates und die Bedeutung des Einzelnen\" (\"The Value of the State and the Significance of the Individual\"). He then taught at various business schools and universities, namely at the University of Greifswald (1921), the University of Bonn (1921), the Technische Universität München (1928), the University of Cologne (1933), and the University of Berlin (1933–1945).\n\nDuring 1916, Schmitt married his first wife, Pavla Dorotić, a Serbian woman who pretended to be a countess. They were divorced, though an appeal to the Catholic Church for an annulment was rejected. During 1926 he married his second wife, Duška Todorović (1903–1950), also Serbian; they had one daughter, named Anima. Subsequently, Schmitt was excommunicated because his first marriage had not been annulled by the Church. His daughter Anima Schmitt de Otero (1931–1983) was married, from 1957, to Alfonso Otero Valera (1925–2001), a Spanish law professor at the University of Santiago de Compostela and a member of the ruling Spanish Falange party under the Franco régime. She translated several works by her father into Spanish. Letters from Carl Schmitt to his son-in-law have also been published.\n\nAs a young man, Schmitt was \"a devoted Catholic until his break with the church in the mid twenties.\" From around the end of the First World War, he began to describe his Catholicism as \"displaced\" and \"de-totalised\". Consequently, Gross argues that his work \"cannot be reduced to Roman Catholic theology given a political turn. Rather, Schmitt should be understood as carrying an atheistic political-theological tradition to an extreme.\" Schmitt met Mircea Eliade in Berlin during the summer of 1942 and spoke later of Eliade to his friend Ernst Jünger and of his interest to Eliade's works.\n\nApart from his academic functions, in 1932, Schmitt was counsel for the Reich government in the case \"Preussen contra Reich\"\" (\"Prussia v. Reich\") in which the Social Democratic Party of Germany-controlled government of the state of Prussia disputed its dismissal by the right-wing Reich government of Franz von Papen. Papen was motivated to do so because Prussia, by far the largest state in Germany, served as a powerful base for the political left and provided it with institutional power, particularly in the form of the Prussian police. Schmitt, Carl Bilfinger and Erwin Jacobi represented the Reich and one of the counsel for the Prussian government was Hermann Heller. The court ruled in October 1932 that the Prussian government had been suspended unlawfully but that the Reich had the right to install a commissar. In German history, the struggle resulting in the \"de facto\" destruction of federalism in the Weimar republic is known as the \"\"Preußenschlag\".\"\n\nSchmitt remarked on 31 January 1933 that with Adolf Hitler's appointment, \"one can say that 'Hegel died. Richard Wolin observes:\nit is Hegel qua philosopher of the \"bureaucratic class\" or Beamtenstaat that has been definitely surpassed with Hitler's triumph... this class of civil servants—which Hegel in the Rechtsphilosophie deems the \"universal class\"—represents an impermissible drag on the sovereignty of executive authority. For Schmitt... the very essence of the bureaucratic conduct of business is reverence for the norm, a standpoint that could not but exist in great tension with the doctrines of Carl Schmitt... Hegel had set an ignominious precedent by according this putative universal class a position of preeminence in his political thought, insofar as the primacy of the bureaucracy tends to diminish or supplant the prerogative of sovereign authority.\n\nAfter the Nazis forced through the passage of the Enabling Act of 1933, which changed the Weimar Constitution to allow the \"present government\" to rule by decree, bypassing both the President, Paul von Hindenburg, and the Reichstag, Alfred Hugenberg, the leader of the German National People's Party – which was one of the Nazi's partners in the coalition government, but was being squeezed out of existence – hoped to slow down the Nazi takeover of the country by threatening to quit his ministry position in the Cabinet. Hugenberg reasoned that by doing so, the government would thereby be changed, and the Enabling Act would no longer apply, as the \"present government\" that had been would no longer exist. It was a legal opinion by Carl Schmitt which prevented this political maneuver from succeeding. Schmitt, well known as a constitutional theorist, declared that \"present government\" did not refer to the specific make-up of the Cabinet when the Act was passed, but to the \"completely different kind of government\" – that is, different from the democracy of the Weimar Republic – which the Hitler cabinet had brought into existence.\n\nSchmitt joined the Nazi Party on 1 May 1933. Within days, Schmitt was party to the burning of books by Jewish authors, rejoicing in the burning of \"un-German\" and \"anti-German\" material, and calling for a much more extensive purge, to include works by authors influenced by Jewish ideas. In July he was appointed State Councillor for Prussia by Hermann Göring and in November he became the president of the \"Union of National-Socialist Jurists\". He also replaced Hermann Heller as a professor at the University of Berlin, a position he would hold until the end of World War II. He presented his theories as an ideological foundation of the Nazi dictatorship, and a justification of the \"Führer\" state concerning legal philosophy, particularly through the concept of \"auctoritas\".\n\nIn June 1934, Schmitt was appointed editor-in-chief of the Nazi newspaper for lawyers, the \"Deutsche Juristen-Zeitung\" (\"German Jurists' Journal\"). In July he published in it \"The Leader Protects the Law (\"Der Führer schützt das Recht\")\", a justification of the political murders of the Night of the Long Knives with the authority of Hitler as the \"highest form of administrative justice (\"höchste Form administrativer Justiz\")\". Schmitt presented himself as a radical anti-semite and also was the chairman of a law teachers' convention in Berlin during October 1936, where he demanded that German law be cleansed of the \"Jewish spirit (\"jüdischem Geist\")\", going so far as to demand that all publications by Jewish scientists should henceforth be marked with a small symbol.\n\nNevertheless, in December 1936, the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) publication \"Das schwarze Korps\" accused Schmitt of being an opportunist, a Hegelian state thinker, and a Catholic, and called his anti-semitism a mere pretense, citing earlier statements in which he criticized the Nazis' racial theories. After this, Schmitt resigned from his position as \"Reichsfachgruppenleiter\" (Reich Professional Group Leader), although he retained his job as a professor in Berlin and his title \"Prussian State Councellor\". Although Schmitt continued to be investigated into 1937, further reprisals were stopped by Göring.\n\nIn 1945, Schmitt was captured by American forces and, after spending more than a year in an internment camp, he returned to his home town of Plettenberg and later to the house of his housekeeper Anni Stand in Plettenberg-Pasel. Schmitt refused every attempt at de-nazification, which effectively barred him from academic jobs. Despite being isolated from the mainstream of the scholarly and political community, he continued his studies especially of international law from the 1950s on, and he frequently received visitors, both colleagues and younger intellectuals, until well into his old age. Important among these visitors were Ernst Jünger, Jacob Taubes and Alexandre Kojève.\n\nIn 1962, Schmitt gave lectures in Francoist Spain, two of which resulted in the publication, the next year, of \"Theory of the Partisan\" (Telos Press, 2007), in which he characterized the Spanish Civil War as a \"war of national liberation\" against \"international Communism\". Schmitt regarded the partisan as a specific and significant phenomenon; during the latter half of the 20th century, indicated the emergence of a new theory of warfare.\n\nSchmitt died on 7 April 1985 and is buried in Plettenberg.\n\nDuring 1921, Schmitt became a professor at the University of Greifswald, where he published his essay \"Die Diktatur\" (on dictatorship), in which he discussed the foundations of the newly established Weimar Republic, emphasising the office of the \"Reichspräsident\". In this essay, Schmitt compared and contrasted what he saw as the effective and ineffective elements of the new constitution of his country. He saw the office of the president as a comparatively effective element, because of the power granted to the president to declare a state of exception (\"Ausnahmezustand\"). This power, which Schmitt discussed and implicitly praised as dictatorial, was more in line with the underlying mentality of executive power than the comparatively slow and ineffective processes of legislative power reached through parliamentary discussion and compromise.\n\nSchmitt was at pains to remove what he saw as a taboo surrounding the concept of \"dictatorship\" and to show that the concept is implicit whenever power is wielded by means other than the slow processes of parliamentary politics and the bureaucracy:\n\nFor Schmitt, every government capable of decisive action must include a dictatorial element within its constitution. Although the German concept of \"Ausnahmezustand\" is best translated as \"state of emergency\", it literally means \"state of exception\" which, according to Schmitt, frees the executive from any legal restraints to its power that would normally apply. The use of the term \"exceptional\" has to be underlined here: Schmitt defines sovereignty as the power to \"decide\" the instauration of state of exception, as Giorgio Agamben has noted. According to Agamben, Schmitt's conceptualization of the \"state of exception\" as belonging to the core-concept of sovereignty was a response to Walter Benjamin's concept of a \"pure\" or \"revolutionary\" violence, which did not enter into any relationship whatsoever with right. Through the state of exception, Schmitt included all types of violence under right, in the case of the authority of Hitler leading to the formulation \"The leader defends the law\" (\"Der Führer schützt das Recht\").\n\nSchmitt opposed what he termed \"commissarial dictatorship\", or the declaration of a state of emergency in order to save the legal order (a temporary suspension of law, defined itself by moral or legal right): the state of emergency is limited (even if \"a posteriori\", by law) to \"sovereign dictatorship\", in which law was suspended, as in the classical state of exception, not to \"save the Constitution\", but rather to create another constitution. This is how he theorized Hitler's continual suspension of the legal constitutional order during the Third Reich (the Weimar Republic's Constitution was never abrogated, emphasized Giorgio Agamben; rather, it was \"suspended\" for four years, first with the 28 February 1933 Reichstag Fire Decree, with the suspension renewed every four years, implying a continual state of emergency).\n\n\"On Dictatorship\" was followed by another essay in 1922, titled \"Politische Theologie\" (political theology); in it, Schmitt, who at the time was working as a professor at the University of Bonn, gave further substance to his authoritarian theories, analysing the concept of \"free will\" influenced by Christian-Catholic thinkers. The book begins with Schmitt's famous, or notorious, definition: \"Sovereign is he who decides on the exception.\" By \"exception\", Schmitt means the appropriate moment for stepping outside the rule of law in the public interest (see discussion of \"On Dictatorship\" above). Schmitt proposes this definition to those offered by contemporary theorists of sovereignty, particularly Hans Kelsen, whose work is criticized at several points in the essay.\n\nThe book's title derives from Schmitt's assertion (in chapter 3) that \"all significant concepts of the modern theory of the state are secularized theological concepts\"—in other words, that political theory addresses the state (and sovereignty) in much the same manner as theology does God.\n\nA year later, Schmitt supported the emergence of totalitarian power structures in his paper \"Die geistesgeschichtliche Lage des heutigen Parlamentarismus\" (roughly: \"The Intellectual-Historical Situation of Today's Parliamentarianism\", translated as \"The Crisis of Parliamentary Democracy\" by Ellen Kennedy). Schmitt criticized the institutional practices of liberal politics, arguing that they are justified by a faith in rational discussion and openness that is at odds with actual parliamentary party politics, in which outcomes are hammered out in smoke-filled rooms by party leaders. Schmitt also posits an essential division between the liberal doctrine of separation of powers and what he holds to be the nature of democracy itself, the identity of the rulers and the ruled. Although many critics of Schmitt today, such as Stephen Holmes in his \"The Anatomy of Anti-Liberalism\", take exception to his fundamentally authoritarian outlook, the idea of incompatibility between liberalism and democracy is one reason for the continued interest in his political philosophy.\n\nIn chapter 4 of his \"State of Exception\" (2005), Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben argued that Schmitt's \"Political Theology\" ought to be read as a response to Walter Benjamin's influential essay \"Towards the Critique of Violence\".\n\nSchmitt changed universities in 1926, when he became professor of law at the Handelshochschule in Berlin, and again in 1932, when he accepted a position in Cologne. It was from lectures at the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik in Berlin that he wrote his most famous paper, \"Der Begriff des Politischen\" (\"The Concept of the Political\"), in which he developed his theory of \"the political\". Distinct from party politics, \"the political\" is the essence of politics. While churches are predominant in religion or society is predominant in economics, the state is predominant in politics. Yet for Schmitt the political was not an autonomous domain equivalent to the other domains, but rather the existential basis that would determine any other domain should it reach the point of politics (e.g. religion ceases to be merely theological when it makes a clear distinction between the \"friend\" and the \"enemy\"). The political is not equal to any other domain, such as the economic (which distinguishes between profitable and not profitable), but instead is the most essential to identity.\n\nSchmitt, in perhaps his best-known formulation, bases his conceptual realm of state sovereignty and autonomy upon the distinction between \"friend\" and \"enemy\". This distinction is to be determined \"existentially\", which is to say that the enemy is whoever is \"in a specially intense way, existentially something different and alien, so that in the extreme case conflicts with him are possible.\" Such an enemy need not even be based on nationality: so long as the conflict is potentially intense enough to become a violent one between political entities, the actual substance of enmity may be anything.\n\nAlthough there have been divergent interpretations concerning this work, there is broad agreement that \"The Concept of the Political\" is an attempt to achieve state unity by defining the content of politics as opposition to the \"other\" (that is to say, an enemy, a stranger. This applies to any person or entity that represents a serious threat or conflict to one's own interests.) Additionally, the prominence of the state stands as a neutral force dominating potentially fractious civil society, whose various antagonisms must not be allowed to affect politics, lest civil war result.\n\nSchmitt's positive reference for Leo Strauss, and Schmitt's approval of his work, had been instrumental in winning Strauss the scholarship funding that allowed him to leave Germany. In turn, Strauss's critique and clarifications of \"The Concept of the Political\" led Schmitt to make significant emendations in its second edition. Writing to Schmitt during 1932, Strauss summarized Schmitt's political theology thus: \"[B]ecause man is by nature evil, he therefore needs \"dominion\". But dominion can be established, that is, men can be unified only in a unity against—against other men. Every association of men is necessarily a separation from other men ... the political thus understood is not the constitutive principle of the state, of order, but a condition of the state.\" Some of the letters between Schmitt and Strauss have been published.\n\n\"The Nomos of the Earth\" is Schmitt's most historical and geopolitical work. Published in 1950, it was also one of his final texts. It describes the origin of the Eurocentric global order, which Schmitt dates from the discovery of the New World, discusses its specific character and its contribution to civilization, analyses the reasons for its decline at the end of the 19th century, and concludes with prospects for a new world order. It defends European achievements, not only in creating the first truly global order of international law, but also in limiting war to conflicts among sovereign states, which, in effect, civilized war. In Schmitt's view, the European sovereign state was the greatest achievement of Occidental rationalism; in becoming the principal agency of secularization, the European state created the modern age.\n\nNotable in Schmitt's discussion of the European epoch of world history is the role played by the New World, which ultimately replaced the old world as the centre of the Earth and became the arbiter in European and world politics. According to Schmitt, the United States' internal conflicts between economic presence and political absence, between isolationism and interventionism, are global problems, which today continue to hamper the creation of a new world order. But however critical Schmitt is of American actions at the end of the 19th century and after World War I, he considered the United States to be the only political entity capable of resolving the crisis of global order.\n\nPublished in 1956, \"Hamlet or Hecuba: The Intrusion of the Time into the Play\" was Schmitt's most extended piece of literary criticism. In it Schmitt focuses his attention on Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" and argues that the significance of the work hinges on its ability to integrate history in the form of the taboo of the queen and the deformation of the figure of the avenger. Schmitt uses this interpretation to develop a theory of myth and politics that serves as a cultural foundation for his concept of political representation. Beyond literary criticism or historical analysis, Schmitt's book also reveals a comprehensive theory of the relationship between aesthetics and politics that responds to alternative ideas developed by Walter Benjamin and Theodor W. Adorno.\n\nSchmitt's \"Theory of the Partisan\" originated in two lectures delivered during 1962, and has been seen as a rethinking of \"The Concept of the Political\". It addressed the transformation of war in the post-European age, analysing a specific and significant phenomenon that ushered in a new theory of war and enmity. It contains an implicit theory of the terrorist, which during the 21st century has resulted in yet another new theory of war and enmity. In the lectures, Schmitt directly tackles the issues surrounding \"the problem of the Partisan\" figure: the guerrilla or revolutionary who \"fights irregularly\" (p. 3). Both because of its scope, with extended discussions on historical figures like Napoleon Bonaparte, Vladimir Lenin and Mao Zedong, as well as the events marking the beginning of the 20th century, Schmitt's text has had a resurgence of popularity. Jacques Derrida, in his \"Politics of Friendship\" remarked:\n\nDespite certain signs of ironic distrust in the areas of metaphysics and ontology, \"The Concept of the Political\" was, as we have seen, a philosophical type of essay to 'frame' the topic of a concept unable to constitute itself on philosophical ground. But in \"Theory of the Partisan\", it is in the same areas that the topic of this concept is both radicalized and properly uprooted, where Schmitt wished to regrasp in history the event or node of events that engaged this uprooting radicalisation, and it is precisely there that the philosophical as such intervenes again.\nSchmitt concludes \"Theory of the Partisan\" with the statement: \"The theory of the partisan flows into the question of the concept of the political, into the question of the real enemy and of a new \"nomos\" of the earth.\" Schmitt's work on the Partisan has since spurred comparisons with the post-9/11 'terrorist' in recent scholarship.\n\nThrough Walter Benjamin, Giorgio Agamben, Andrew Arato, Chantal Mouffe and other writers, Carl Schmitt has become a common reference in recent writings of the intellectual left as well as the right. These discussions concern not only the interpretation of Schmitt's own positions, but also matters relevant to contemporary politics: the idea that laws of the state cannot strictly limit actions of its sovereign, the problem of a \"state of exception\" (later expanded upon by Agamben).\n\nSchmitt's argument that political concepts are \"secularized theological concepts\" has also recently been seen as consequential for those interested in contemporary political theology. The German-Jewish philosopher Jacob Taubes, for example, engaged Schmitt widely in his study of Saint Paul, \"The Political Theology of Paul\" (Stanford Univ. Press, 2004). Taubes' understanding of political theology is, however, very different from Schmitt's, and emphasizes the political aspect of theological claims, rather than the religious derivation of political claims.\n\nSchmitt is described as a \"classic of political thought\" by Herfried Münkler, while in the same article Münkler speaks of his post-war writings as reflecting an: \"embittered, jealous, occasionally malicious man\" (\"verbitterten, eifersüchtigen, gelegentlich bösartigen Mann\"). Schmitt was termed the \"Crown Jurist of the Third Reich\" (\"Kronjurist des Dritten Reiches\") by Waldemar Gurian.\n\nTimothy D. Snyder has asserted that Schmitt's work has greatly influenced Eurasianist philosophy in Russia by revealing a counter to the liberal order.\n\nAccording to historian Renato Cristi in the writing of the present Constitution of Chile Pinochet collaborator Jaime Guzmán based his work on the \"pouvoir constituant\" concept used by Schmitt as well as drawing inspiration in the ideas of market society of Friedrich Hayek. This way Guzmán would have enabled a framework for an authoritarian state with a free market system.\n\nSome have argued that neoconservativism has been influenced by Schmitt. Most notably the legal opinions offered by Alberto Gonzales, John Yoo et al. by invoking the unitary executive theory to justify highly controversial policies in the war on terror—such as introducing unlawful combatant status which purportedly would eliminate protection by the Geneva Conventions, torture, NSA electronic surveillance program—mimic his writings. Professor David Luban said in 2011 that \"[a] Lexis search reveals five law review references to Schmitt between 1980 and 1990; 114 between 1990 and 2000; and 420 since 2000, with almost twice as many in the last five years as the previous five\".\n\nNote: a complete bibliography of all English translations of Schmitt's books, articles, essays, and correspondence is available here.\n\nWorks in German\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "2975713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975713", "title": "Chose", "text": "Chose\n\nChose (pronounced: , French for \"thing\") is a term used in common law tradition to refer to rights in property, specifically a combined bundle of rights. A chose describes the enforcement right which a party possesses in an object. The use of \"Chose\" extends from the English use of French within the courts. In English and commonwealth law, all personal things fall into one of two categories, either choses in action and choses in possession. English law uses a \"chose\" to refer to a bundle of rights, traditionally relating to property which may be utilised in certain circumstances. Thus, a \"Chose in action\" refers to a bundle of personal rights which can only be enforced or claimed by a chose-holder bringing an action through the court to enforce the action. In English law, this category is enormously wide. This is contrasted with a \"Chose in Possession\" which represents rights which can be enforced or acquired by taking physical possession of the chose. This may be, for example a legal mortgage. Both \"choses in possession\" and 'choses in action\" create separate proprietary interests. What differs between each is the method in which each \"chose\" may be enforced. This is dependent on the possessory nature of the reference object.\"\n\nAlternative, historical uses includes a chose local, a thing annexed to a place, such as a mill; a chose transitory, something movable that can be carried from place to place.\n\nA chose in action or \"thing in action\" is a right to sue. It has been made trite law, since \"Torkington v Magee\", that a \"chose in action\" is a legal expression used to describe all personal rights of property which can only be claimed or enforced by action. It is therefore a categorisation of interests in assets, the enforcement of which cannot be secured without the use of a court. It is an intangible property right recognised and protected by the law, that has no existence apart from the recognition given by the law, and that confers no present possession of a tangible object. Since incorporeal assets such as claims for repayment of debts, or assigned rights in contracts cannot be subject to possession, they cannot be categorised as \"choses in possession\". \nIn certain circumstances, the \"chose in action\" creates a separate proprietary right, independent from the property in which it may reference. This new property can be subject to charges or can be assigned. For example, a right to enforce and receive payment for a debt, obtain money by way of damages for breach of contract, or receive recompense for a wrong is a chose in action. Two consequences result from this, firstly, they are claims which cannot be executed by the chose-holder without the enforcement of legal proceedings. Second, these examples may be themselves assigned, novated, or otherwise used by the chose-holder. If the economic value of the asset is the right to sue. Historically, documents which represented a title to a \"chose in action\" of a particular kind, such as bonds or other documentary intangibles were themselves \"chose in possession\" because, similar to promissory notes they were negotiable and thus could be physically seised. That is to say, they were transferred solely by delivery of the document themselves. Today, most bonds and other financial instruments have been dematerialised and are issued as a single global note. The consequence of this is that most financial instruments are now \"choses in action\"held by the beneficial party against the broker holding assets in a securities depository such CREST, where investors own interlocking interests in trusts, rather than the actual issued note. The development of dematerialised securities brings some objects which are termed as \"chose in action\" today full circle, such as bonds or bill of lading which the court first developed as \"choses in action\", and which, without the use of a negotiable instrument no longer operate as \"choses in possession\". Currently, claims which are treated as being \"locked up\" inside the paper includes pledge, negotiables, and custodial bailment.\n\"Choses in Action\" are particularly crucial to the assignment of interests in law, and thus play a crucial role in the operation and coordination of the financial markets. Certain rights, such as a claim to rescission of a mortgage is a right of action, but \"not\" a \"chose in action\" or part of one that can be assigned. Because the category is often broadly construed, there have been numerous attempts to expand the category to allow new intangible assets to fall within the chose in action.\n\nThe chose can either be legal or equitable. Prior to the Judicature Acts, which fused the courts of Equity and the Common law into a single jurisdiction, where the chose could be recovered only by an action at law, as a debt (whether arising from contract or tort), it was termed a legal chose in action; where the chose was recoverable only by a suit in equity, as a legacy or money held upon a trust, it was termed an equitable chose in action. Before the Judicature Acts, a legal chose in action was not assignable, i.e., the assignee could not sue at law in his own name. To this rule there were two exceptions:\nPrior to this point, the courts of equity could not enforce a legal chose in action and vice versa. The consequence was that, with these and certain statutory exceptions (e.g., actions on policies of insurance), an action on an assigned chose in action must have been brought at law in the name of the assignor, though the sum recovered belonged in equity to the assignee. All choses in action being in equity assignable, except those altogether incapable of being assigned, in equity the assignee might have sued in his own name, making the assignor a party as co-plaintiff or as defendant. The Judicature Acts made the distinction between legal and equitable choses in action of no importance. The Judicature Act of 1873, s. 25 (6), enacted that the legal right to a debt or other legal \"chose in action\" could be passed by absolute assignment in writing under the hand of the assignor. This was later updated by the Law of Property Act 1925 s136 which outlined that assignment must be \nThese requirements are significant because without notice, it prevents the assignee from suing on the debt. Until the debtor has given notice, set-offs continue to arise between the assignor and the debtor, the debtor does not know to pay anyone other than the debtor; and the assignee may lose priority to subsequent assignees who do provide notice. The difference between present and future choses in action has been likened to the difference between a tree and its fruit.\n\nA \"chose in possession\"' is a phrase referring to a bundle of rights and remedies, (which in England are inextricably linked), of an object of tangible personal property that can be physically possessed by the owner and can be transferred by delivery. Relation, or rather, capacity of control and apparent dominion is required as the foundation of the alleged \"chose in possession\". This is impossible with incorporeal rights. Possession and possession-based techniques are of little relevance to modern financial markets, but still play a substantial role in commercial and retail lending. Therefore a \"chose in possession\" denotes not only the right to enjoy or possess a thing, but also the actual or constructive enjoyment of it. The possession may be absolute or qualified. It is absolute when the person is fully and completely the proprietor or owner of the thing; it is qualified when he \"has not an exclusive right, or not a permanent right, but a right that may sometimes subsist and at other times not subsist\", as in the case of animals \"ferae naturae\" (\"of a feral nature\", or wild). A chose in possession is freely transferable by delivery. Previous to the Married Women's Property Act of 1882, a wife's choses in possession became vested in her husband immediately upon her marriage, while her choses in action did not belong to her husband until he had converted them to possession. However, this difference is now practically obsolete.\n\nIn practice, there is little difference between the utility of a chose in possession and a chose in action, outside of insolvency. However, a Chose in possession is particularly important in view of insolvency as the possessory right of the asset allows for enforcement of security irrespective of the solvency of the company. Where an asset is (1) unique and cannot be replicated, such as shares in a company amounting to board control; (2) a proprietary interest wherein account of profits of the original owed item; or (3) procedural remedies; exist, a chose in possession will be crucial in enforcement.\n"}
{"id": "188746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188746", "title": "Civil Rights Act of 1964", "text": "Civil Rights Act of 1964\n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1964 () is a landmark civil rights and U.S. labor law in the United States that outlaws discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. It prohibits unequal application of voter registration requirements, racial segregation in schools, employment, and public accommodations.\n\nPowers given to enforce the act were initially weak, but were supplemented during later years. Congress asserted its authority to legislate under several different parts of the United States Constitution, principally its power to regulate interstate commerce under Article One (section 8), its duty to guarantee all citizens equal protection of the laws under the Fourteenth Amendment, and its duty to protect voting rights under the Fifteenth Amendment.\n\nThe legislation had been proposed by U.S. President John F. Kennedy in June 1963, but opposed by filibuster in the Senate. After Kennedy was assassinated in November 1963, U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson pushed the bill forward, which in its final form was passed in the U.S. Congress by a Senate vote of 73–27 and House vote of 289–126. The Act was signed into law by U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson on July 2, 1964, at the White House.\n\nThe bill was called for by U.S President John F. Kennedy in his Report to the American People on Civil Rights of June 11, 1963, in which he asked for legislation \"giving all Americans the right to be served in facilities which are open to the public—hotels, restaurants, theaters, retail stores, and similar establishments\"—as well as \"greater protection for the right to vote\". Kennedy delivered this speech in the aftermath of the Birmingham campaign and the growing number of demonstrations and protests throughout the southern United States. Kennedy was moved to action following the elevated racial tensions and wave of black riots in the spring 1963.\n\nEmulating the Civil Rights Act of 1875, Kennedy's civil rights bill included provisions to ban discrimination in public accommodations, and to enable the U.S. Attorney General to join in lawsuits against state governments which operated segregated school systems, among other provisions. However, it did not include a number of provisions deemed essential by civil rights leaders, including protection against police brutality, ending discrimination in private employment, or granting the Justice Department power to initiate desegregation or job discrimination lawsuits.\n\nOn June 11, 1963, President Kennedy met with Republican leaders to discuss the legislation before his television address to the nation that evening. Two days later, Senate Minority Leader Everett Dirksen and Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield both voiced support for the president's bill, except for provisions guaranteeing equal access to places of public accommodations. This led to several Republican Representatives drafting a compromise bill to be considered. On June 19, the president sent his bill to Congress as it was originally written, saying legislative action was \"imperative\". The president's bill went first to the House of Representatives, where it was referred to the Judiciary Committee, chaired by Emanuel Celler, a Democrat from New York. After a series of hearings on the bill, Celler's committee strengthened the act, adding provisions to ban racial discrimination in employment, providing greater protection to black voters, eliminating segregation in all publicly-owned facilities (not just schools), and strengthening the anti-segregation clauses regarding public facilities such as lunch counters. They also added authorization for the Attorney General to file lawsuits to protect individuals against the deprivation of any rights secured by the Constitution or U.S. law. In essence, this was the controversial \"Title III\" that had been removed from the 1957 Act and 1960 Act. Civil rights organizations pressed hard for this provision because it could be used to protect peaceful protesters and black voters from police brutality and suppression of free speech rights.\n\nKennedy called the congressional leaders to the White House in late October 1963 to line up the necessary votes in the House for passage. The bill was reported out of the Judiciary Committee in November 1963 and referred to the Rules Committee, whose chairman, Howard W. Smith, a Democrat and staunch segregationist from Virginia, indicated his intention to keep the bill bottled up indefinitely.\n\nThe assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, changed the political situation. Kennedy's successor as president, Lyndon Johnson, made use of his experience in legislative politics, along with the bully pulpit he wielded as president, in support of the bill. In his first address to a joint session of Congress on November 27, 1963, Johnson told the legislators, \"No memorial oration or eulogy could more eloquently honor President Kennedy's memory than the earliest possible passage of the civil rights bill for which he fought so long.\"\n\nJudiciary Committee chairman Celler filed a petition to discharge the bill from the Rules Committee; it required the support of a majority of House members to move the bill to the floor. Initially Celler had a difficult time acquiring the signatures necessary, with many Representatives who supported the civil rights bill itself remaining cautious about violating normal House procedure with the rare use of a discharge petition. By the time of the 1963 winter recess, 50 signatures were still needed.\n\nAfter the return of Congress from its winter recess, however, it was apparent that public opinion in the North favored the bill and that the petition would acquire the necessary signatures. To avert the humiliation of a successful discharge petition, Chairman Smith relented and allowed the bill to pass through the Rules Committee.\n\nLobbying support for the Civil Rights Act was coordinated by the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a coalition of 70 liberal and labor organizations. The principal lobbyists for the Leadership Conference were civil rights lawyer Joseph L. Rauh Jr. and Clarence Mitchell, Sr. of the NAACP.\n\nJohnson, who wanted the bill passed as soon as possible, ensured that the bill would be quickly considered by the Senate. Normally, the bill would have been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired by Senator James O. Eastland, Democrat from Mississippi. Given Eastland's firm opposition, it seemed impossible that the bill would reach the Senate floor. Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield took a novel approach to prevent the bill from being relegated to Judiciary Committee limbo. Having initially waived a second reading of the bill, which would have led to it being immediately referred to Judiciary, Mansfield gave the bill a second reading on February 26, 1964, and then proposed, in the absence of precedent for instances when a second reading did not immediately follow the first, that the bill bypass the Judiciary Committee and immediately be sent to the Senate floor for debate.\n\nWhen the bill came before the full Senate for debate on March 30, 1964, the \"Southern Bloc\" of 18 southern Democratic Senators and one Republican Senator led by Richard Russell (D-GA) launched a filibuster to prevent its passage. Said Russell: \"We will resist to the bitter end any measure or any movement which would have a tendency to bring about social equality and intermingling and amalgamation of the races in our (Southern) states.\"\n\nStrong opposition to the bill also came from Senator Strom Thurmond (D-SC): \"This so-called Civil Rights Proposals, which the President has sent to Capitol Hill for enactment into law, are unconstitutional, unnecessary, unwise and extend beyond the realm of reason. This is the worst civil-rights package ever presented to the Congress and is reminiscent of the Reconstruction proposals and actions of the radical Republican Congress.\"\n\nAfter 54 days of filibuster, Senators Hubert Humphrey (D-MN), Mike Mansfield (D-MT), Everett Dirksen (R-IL), and Thomas Kuchel (R-CA), introduced a substitute bill that they hoped would attract enough Republican swing votes in addition to the core liberal Democrats behind the legislation to end the filibuster. The compromise bill was weaker than the House version in regard to government power to regulate the conduct of private business, but it was not so weak as to cause the House to reconsider the legislation.\n\nOn the morning of June 10, 1964, Senator Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) completed a filibustering address that he had begun 14 hours and 13 minutes earlier opposing the legislation. Until then, the measure had occupied the Senate for 60 working days, including six Saturdays. A day earlier, Democratic Whip Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota, the bill's manager, concluded he had the 67 votes required at that time to end the debate and end the filibuster. With six wavering senators providing a four-vote victory margin, the final tally stood at 71 to 29. Never in history had the Senate been able to muster enough votes to cut off a filibuster on a civil rights bill. And only once in the 37 years since 1927 had it agreed to cloture for any measure.\n\nOn June 19, the substitute (compromise) bill passed the Senate by a vote of 73–27, and quickly passed through the House–Senate conference committee, which adopted the Senate version of the bill. The conference bill was passed by both houses of Congress, and was signed into law by President Johnson on July 2, 1964.\n\nTotals are in \"\"Yea\"–\"Nay\"\" format:\n\nThe original House version:\n\nCloture in the Senate:\n\nThe Senate version:\n\nThe Senate version, voted on by the House:\n\nNote: \"Southern\", as used in this section, refers to members of Congress from the eleven states that made up the Confederate States of America in the American Civil War. \"Northern\" refers to members from the other 39 states, regardless of the geographic location of those states.\n\nThe original House version:\n\nThe Senate version:\n\nJust one year earlier, the same Congress had passed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibited wage differentials based on sex. The prohibition on sex discrimination was added to the Civil Rights Act by Howard W. Smith, a powerful Virginia Democrat who chaired the House Rules Committee and who strongly opposed the legislation. Smith's amendment was passed by a teller vote of 168 to 133. Historians debate Smith's motivation, whether it was a cynical attempt to defeat the bill by someone opposed to civil rights both for blacks and women, or an attempt to support their rights by broadening the bill to include women. Smith expected that Republicans, who had included equal rights for women in their party's platform since 1944, would probably vote for the amendment. Historians speculate that Smith was trying to embarrass northern Democrats who opposed civil rights for women because the clause was opposed by labor unions. Representative Carl Elliott of Alabama later claimed, \"Smith didn't give a damn about women's rights...he was trying to knock off votes either then or down the line because there was always a hard core of men who didn't favor women's rights,\" and the \"Congressional Record\" records that Smith was greeted by laughter when he introduced the amendment.\n\nSmith asserted that he was not joking; he sincerely supported the amendment and, indeed, along with Rep. Martha Griffiths, he was the chief spokesperson for the amendment. For twenty years Smith had sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment (with no linkage to racial issues) in the House because he believed in it. He for decades had been close to the National Woman's Party and its leader Alice Paul, who was also the leader in winning the right to vote for women in 1920, the author of the first Equal Rights Amendment, and a chief supporter of equal rights proposals since then. She and other feminists had worked with Smith since 1945 trying to find a way to include sex as a protected civil rights category. Now was the moment. Griffiths argued that the new law would protect black women but not white women, and that was unfair to white women. Furthermore, she argued that the laws \"protecting\" women from unpleasant jobs were actually designed to enable men to monopolize those jobs, and that was unfair to women who were not allowed to try out for those jobs. The amendment passed with the votes of Republicans and Southern Democrats. The final law passed with the votes of Republicans and Northern Democrats. Thus, as Justice William Rehnquist explained in \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson\", \"The prohibition against discrimination based on sex was added to Title VII at the last minute on the floor of the House of Representatives... the bill quickly passed as amended, and we are left with little legislative history to guide us in interpreting the Act's prohibition against discrimination based on 'sex.\n\nOne of the most damaging arguments by the bill's opponents was that once passed, the bill would require forced busing to achieve certain racial quotas in schools. Proponents of the bill, such as Emanuel Celler and Jacob Javits, said that the bill would not authorize such measures. Leading sponsor Senator Hubert Humphrey (D-MN) wrote two amendments specifically designed to outlaw busing. Humphrey said \"if the bill were to compel it, it would be a violation [of the Constitution], because it would be handling the matter on the basis of race and we would be transporting children because of race.\" While Javits said any government official who sought to use the bill for busing purposes \"would be making a fool of himself,\" two years later the Department of Health, Education and Welfare said that Southern school districts would be required to meet mathematical ratios of students by busing.\n\nThe bill divided and engendered a long-term change in the demographic support of both parties. President Johnson realized that supporting this bill would risk losing the South's overwhelming support of the Democratic Party. Both Attorney General Robert Kennedy and Vice President Johnson had pushed for the introduction of the civil rights legislation. Johnson told Kennedy aide Ted Sorensen that \"I know the risks are great and we might lose the South, but those sorts of states may be lost anyway.\" Senator Richard Russell, Jr. later warned President Johnson that his strong support for the civil rights bill \"will not only cost you the South, it will cost you the election\". Johnson, however, went on to win the 1964 election by one of the biggest landslides in American history. The South, which had five states swing Republican in 1964, became a stronghold of the Republican Party by the 1990s.\n\nAlthough majorities in both parties voted for the bill, there were notable exceptions. Though he opposed forced segregation, Republican Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona voted against the bill, remarking, \"You can't legislate morality.\" Goldwater had supported previous attempts to pass civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 as well as the 24th Amendment outlawing the poll tax. He stated that the reason for his opposition to the 1964 bill was Title II, which in his opinion violated individual liberty and states' rights. Democrats and Republicans from the Southern states opposed the bill and led an unsuccessful 83-day filibuster, including Senators Albert Gore, Sr. (D-TN) and J. William Fulbright (D-AR), as well as Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV), who personally filibustered for 14 hours straight.\n\nBarred unequal application of voter registration requirements.\n\nTitle I did not eliminate literacy tests, which were one of the main methods used to exclude Black voters, other racial minorities, and poor Whites in the South, nor did it address economic retaliation, police repression, or physical violence against nonwhite voters. While the Act did require that voting rules and procedures be applied equally to all races, it did not abolish the concept of voter \"qualification\", that is to say, it accepted the idea that citizens do not have an automatic right to vote but rather might have to meet some standard beyond citizenship. It was the Voting Rights Act, enacted one year later in 1965, that directly addressed and eliminated most voting qualifications beyond citizenship.\n\nOutlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, or national origin in hotels, motels, restaurants, theaters, and all other public accommodations engaged in interstate commerce; exempted private clubs without defining the term \"private\".\n\nProhibited state and municipal governments from denying access to public facilities on grounds of race, color, religion, or national origin.\n\nEncouraged the desegregation of public schools and authorized the U.S. Attorney General to file suits to enforce said act.\n\nExpanded the Civil Rights Commission established by the earlier Civil Rights Act of 1957 with additional powers, rules and procedures.\n\nPrevents discrimination by programs and activities that receive federal funds. If an recipient of federal funds is found in violation of Title VI, that recipient may lose its federal funding.\n\nGeneral\n\nThis title declares it to be the policy of the United States that discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin shall not occur in connection with programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance and authorizes and directs the appropriate Federal departments and agencies to take action to carry out this policy. This title is not intended to apply to foreign assistance programs.\nSection 601This section states the general principle that no person in the United States shall be excluded from participation in or otherwise discriminated against on the ground of race, color, or national origin under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.\n\nSection 602 directs each Federal agency administering a program of Federal financial assistance by way of grant, contract, or loan to take action pursuant to rule, regulation, or order of general applicability to effectuate the principle of section 601 in a manner consistent with the achievement of the objectives of the statute authorizing the assistance. In seeking the effect compliance with its requirements imposed under this section, an agency is authorized to terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue assistance under a program to any recipient as to whom there has been an express finding pursuant to a hearing of a failure to comply with the requirements under that program, and it may also employ any other means authorized by law. However, each agency is directed first to seek compliance with its requirements by voluntary means.\n\nSection 603 provides that any agency action taken pursuant to section 602 shall be subject to such judicial review as would be available for similar actions by that agency on other grounds. Where the agency action consists of terminating or refusing to grant or to continue financial assistance because of a finding of a failure of the recipient to comply with the agency's requirements imposed under section 602, and the agency action would not otherwise be subject to judicial review under existing law, judicial review shall nevertheless be available to any person aggrieved as provided in section 10 of the Administrative Procedure Act (). The section also states explicitly that in the latter situation such agency action shall not be deemed committed to unreviewable agency discretion within the meaning of section 10. The purpose of this provision is to obviate the possible argument that although section 603 provides for review in accordance with section 10, section 10 itself has an exception for action \"committed to agency discretion,\" which might otherwise be carried over into section 603. It is not the purpose of this provision of section 603, however, otherwise to alter the scope of judicial review as presently provided in section 10(e) of the Administrative Procedure Act.\n\nTitle VII of the Act, codified as Subchapter VI of Chapter 21 of title 42 of the United States Code, prohibits discrimination by covered employers on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin (see ). Title VII applies to and covers an employer \"who has fifteen (15) or more employees for each working day in each of twenty or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year\" as written in the Definitions section under 42 U.S.C. §2000e(b). Title VII also prohibits discrimination against an individual because of his or her association with another individual of a particular race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, such as by an interracial marriage. The EEO Title VII has also been supplemented with legislation prohibiting pregnancy, age, and disability discrimination (\"See\" Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990).\n\nIn very narrowly defined situations, an employer is permitted to discriminate on the basis of a protected trait where the trait is a bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ) reasonably necessary to the normal operation of that particular business or enterprise. To prove the bona fide occupational qualifications defense, an employer must prove three elements: a direct relationship between the protected trait and the ability to perform the duties of the job, the BFOQ relates to the \"essence\" or \"central mission of the employer's business\", and there is no less-restrictive or reasonable alternative (\"United Automobile Workers v. Johnson Controls, Inc.\", 111 S.Ct. 1196). The Bona Fide Occupational Qualification exception is an extremely narrow exception to the general prohibition of discrimination based on protected traits (\"Dothard v. Rawlinson\", 97 S.Ct. 2720). An employer or customer's preference for an individual of a particular religion is not sufficient to establish a Bona Fide Occupational Qualification (\"Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Kamehameha School — Bishop Estate\", 990 F.2d 458 (9th Cir. 1993)).\n\nTitle VII allows for any employer, labor organization, joint labor-management committee, or employment agency to bypass the \"unlawful employment practice\" for any person involved with the Communist Party of the United States or of any other organization required to register as a Communist-action or Communist-front organization by final order of the Subversive Activities Control Board pursuant to the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950.\n\nThere are partial and whole exceptions to Title VII for four types of employers:\n\nThe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) as well as certain state fair employment practices agencies (FEPAs) enforce Title VII (see ). The EEOC and state FEPAs investigate, mediate, and may file lawsuits on behalf of employees. Where a state law is contradicted by a federal law, it is overridden. Every state, except Arkansas and Mississippi, maintains a state FEPA (see EEOC and state FEPA directory ). Title VII also provides that an individual can bring a private lawsuit. An individual must file a complaint of discrimination with the EEOC within 180 days of learning of the discrimination or the individual may lose the right to file a lawsuit. Title VII only applies to employers who employ 15 or more employees for 20 or more weeks in the current or preceding calendar year ().\n\nIn the early 1980s, the EEOC and some federal courts began holding that sexual harassment is also prohibited under the Act. In 1986, the Supreme Court held in \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson\", , that sexual harassment is sex discrimination and is prohibited by Title VII. This case filed by plaintiff Mechelle Vinson was the first in the history of the court to recognize sexual harassment as actionable. Following 1986, court cases in which the plaintiff suffers no economic loss can potentially argue for a violation of Title VII if the discrimination resulted in a hostile work environment. Same-sex sexual harassment has also been held in a unanimous decision written by Justice Scalia to be prohibited by Title VII (\"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc.\", , 118 S.Ct. 998).\n\nIn 2012, the EEOC ruled that employment discrimination on the basis of gender identity or transgender status is prohibited under Title VII. The decision held that discrimination on the basis of gender identity qualified as discrimination on the basis of sex whether the discrimination was due to sex stereotyping, discomfort with the fact of an individual's transition, or discrimination due to a perceived change in the individual's sex. In 2014, the EEOC initiated two lawsuits against private companies for discrimination on the basis of gender identity, with additional litigation under consideration. , Commissioner Chai Feldblum is making an active effort to increase awareness of Title VII remedies for individuals discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.\n\nOn December 15, 2014, under a memorandum issued by Attorney General Eric Holder, the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) took a position that aligned with the EEOC, namely the prohibition of sex discrimination under Title VII encompassed the prohibition of discrimination based on gender identity or transgender status. DoJ had already stopped opposing claims of discrimination brought by federal transgender employees.\n\nIn October 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a directive that withdrew the Holder memorandum. According to a copy of the directive reviewed by \"BuzzFeed News\", Sessions stated that Title VII should be narrowly interpreted to cover discrimination between \"men and women\". Attorney General Session stated as a matter of law, \"Title VII does not prohibit discrimination based on gender identity per se.\" Devin O'Malley, speaking on behalf of the DoJ, stated \"the last administration abandoned that fundamental principle [that the Department of Justice cannot expand the law beyond what Congress has provided], which necessitated today's action.\" Sharon McGowan, a lawyer with Lambda Legal who previously served in the Civil Rights division of DoJ, rejected that argument, saying \"[T]his memo is not actually a reflection of the law as it is — it's a reflection of what the DOJ wishes the law were\" and \"The Justice Department is actually getting back in the business of making anti-transgender law in court.\"\n\nOn December 11, 2017, the United States Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal in \"Evans v. Georgia Regional Hospital\", in which a lower court ruled against the plaintiff, who had argued Title VII protections applied to sexual orientation. The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals stated in its earlier ruling that only the Supreme Court could determine if Title VII applied.\n\nRequired compilation of voter-registration and voting data in geographic areas specified by the Commission on Civil Rights.\n\nTitle IX made it easier to move civil rights cases from state courts to federal court. This was of crucial importance to civil rights activists who contended that they could not get fair trials in state courts.\n\nTitle IX of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 should not be confused with Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in federally funded education programs and activities.\n\nEstablished the Community Relations Service, tasked with assisting in community disputes involving claims of discrimination.\n\nTitle XI gives a defendant accused of certain categories of criminal contempt in a matter arising under title II, III, IV, V, VI, or VII of the Act the right to a jury trial. If convicted, the defendant can be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than six months.\n\nThere were white business owners who claimed that Congress did not have the constitutional authority to ban segregation in public accommodations. For example, Moreton Rolleston, the owner of a motel in Atlanta, Georgia, said he should not be forced to serve black travelers, saying, \"the fundamental question [...] is whether or not Congress has the power to take away the liberty of an individual to run his business as he sees fit in the selection and choice of his customers\". Rolleston claimed that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was a breach of the Fourteenth Amendment and also violated the Fifth and Thirteenth Amendments by depriving him of \"liberty and property without due process\". In \"Heart of Atlanta Motel v. United States\" (1964), the Supreme Court held that Congress drew its authority from the Constitution's Commerce Clause, rejecting Rolleston's claims.\n\nResistance to the public accommodation clause continued for years on the ground, especially in the South. When local college students in Orangeburg, South Carolina attempted to desegregate a bowling alley in 1968, they were violently attacked, leading to rioting and what became known as the \"Orangeburg massacre.\" Resistance by school boards continued into the next decade, with the most significant declines in black-white school segregation only occurring at the end of the 1960s and the start of the 1970s in the aftermath of the \"Green v. County School Board of New Kent County\" (1968) court decision.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1972, Title VII lacked any strong enforcement provisions. Instead, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was authorized only to investigate external claims of discrimination. The EEOC could then refer cases to the Justice Department for litigation if reasonable cause was found. The EEOC documented the nature and magnitude of discriminatory employment practices, the first study of this kind done.\n\nIn 1972, Congress passed the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. The Act amended Title VII and gave EEOC authority to initiate its own enforcement litigation. The EEOC now played a major role in guiding judicial interpretations of civil rights legislation. The commission was also permitted for the first time to define \"discrimination,\" a term excluded from the 1964 Act.\n\nThe Constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was, at the time, in some dispute as it applied to the private sector. In the landmark \"Civil Rights Cases\" the United States Supreme Court had ruled, in 1883, that Congress did not have the power to prohibit discrimination in the private sector, thus stripping the Civil Rights Act of 1875 of much of its ability to protect civil rights.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, the legal justification for voiding the Civil Rights Act of 1875 was part of a larger trend by members of the United States Supreme Court to invalidate most government regulations of the private sector, except when dealing with laws designed to protect traditional public morality.\n\nIn the 1930s, during the New Deal, the majority of the Supreme Court justices gradually shifted their legal theory to allow for greater government regulation of the private sector under the commerce clause, thus paving the way for the Federal government to enact civil rights laws prohibiting both public and private sector discrimination on the basis of the commerce clause.\n\nAfter the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, the Supreme Court upheld the law's application to the private sector, on the grounds that Congress has the power to regulate commerce between the States. The landmark case \"Heart of Atlanta Motel v. United States\" established the constitutionality of the law, but it did not settle all of the legal questions surrounding the law.\n\nIn \"Phillips v. Martin Marietta Corp.\", a 1971 Supreme Court case regarding the gender provisions of the Act, the Court ruled that a company could not discriminate against a potential female employee because she had a preschool-age child unless they did the same with potential male employees. A federal court overruled an Ohio state law that barred women from obtaining jobs which required the ability to lift 25 pounds and required women to take lunch breaks when men were not required to. In \"Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Commission on Human Relations\", the United States Supreme Court decided that printing separate job listings for men and women was illegal, which ended that practice among the country's newspapers. The United States Civil Service Commission ended the practice among federal jobs which designated them \"women only\" or \"men only.\"\n\nIn 1974, the Supreme Court also ruled that the San Francisco school district was violating non-English speaking students' rights under the 1964 act by placing them in regular classes rather than providing some sort of accommodation for them.\n\nIn 1975, a federal civil rights agency warned a Phoenix, Arizona school that its end-of-year father-son and mother-daughter baseball games were illegal according to the 1964 Civil Rights Act. President Gerald Ford intervened, and the games were allowed to continue.\n\nIn 1977, the Supreme Court struck down state minimum height requirements for police officers as violating the Act; women usually could not meet these requirements.\n\nOn April 4, 2017, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago, sitting \"en banc\", ruled that Title VII of the Act forbids discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation by a vote of 8–3. Over the prior month, panels of both the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in Atlanta and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York City had reached the opposite conclusion, finding that Title VII sex discrimination does not include claims based on sexual orientation.\n\nDespite its lack of influence during its time, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 had considerable impact on later civil rights legislation in the United States. It paved the way for future legislation that was not limited to African American civil rights. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990—which has been called \"the most important piece of federal legislation since the Civil Rights Act of 1964\"—was influenced both by the structure and substance of the previous Civil Rights Act of 1964. The act was arguably of equal importance, and \"draws substantially from the structure of that landmark legislation [Civil Rights Act of 1964]\". The Americans with Disabilities Act paralleled its landmark predecessor structurally, drawing upon many of the same titles and statutes. For example, \"Title I of the ADA, which bans employment discrimination by private employers on the basis of disability, parallels Title VII of the Act\". Similarly, Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, \"which proscribes discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations, tracks Title II of the 1964 Act while expanding upon the list of public accommodations covered.\" The Americans with Disabilities Act extended \"the principle of nondiscrimination to people with disabilities\", an idea unsought in the United States before the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Act also influenced later civil rights legislation, such as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Civil Rights Act of 1968, aiding not only African Americans, but also women.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40387494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40387494", "title": "Commanding heights of the economy", "text": "Commanding heights of the economy\n\nThe commanding heights of the economy refers to existing private industry essential to the economy like public utilities, natural resources, heavy industry and transport as well as control over foreign and domestic trade. This phrase emerged from a branch of modern political philosophy concerned with organizing society and can be traced back to Karl Marx's idea on socialism, which stresses the commanding heights and advocates for government control of it. This should not be confused with complete socialism or communism.\n\nAccording to Yevgeni Preobrazhensky, a Bolshevik economist, control over the \"commanding heights of the economy\" would ensure \"primitive socialist accumulation\". Deng Xiaoping, the leader who along with Chen Yun introduced the Chinese economic reforms, was inspired by this concept. The Communist Party of China still believes to this day that the state needs to control the economy's commanding heights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "585418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585418", "title": "Constitutional Court of Hungary", "text": "Constitutional Court of Hungary\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Hungary () is a special court of Hungary, making judicial review of the acts of the Parliament of Hungary. The official seat of the Constitutional Court is Budapest. Until 2012 the seat was Esztergom.\n\nThe Constitutional Court is composed of 15 judges since September 1, 2011 (previously, the Court was composed of 11 judges). The members then elect the President of the Court from among its members in a secret ballot. One or two Vice-Presidents, appointed by the President of the Court, stand in for the President in the event of his absence for any reason. The constitutional court passes on the constitutionality of laws, and there is no right of appeal on these decisions. The Constitutional Court serves as the main body for the protection of the Constitution, its tasks being the review of the constitutionality of statutes, and the protection of constitutional order and fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. The Constitutional Court performs its tasks independently. With its own budget and its judges being elected by Parliament it does not constitute a part of the ordinary judicial system.\n\nOn October 19, 1989 the Hungarian Parliament passed a resolution on the establishment of the Constitutional Court. Its organisation and authority, however, had been determined earlier in the framework of the trilateral political roundtable negotiations preparing the democratic transformation of the political system.\nThe basic provisions on the Constitutional Court were laid down in October 1989 by Parliament by way of amending the Constitution (Article 32/A). The court was set up in order to promote the establishment of a state governed by the rule of law as well as the protection of constitutional order and fundamental rights. Act XXXII of 1989 on the Constitutional Court was passed by Parliament on 19 October 1989, and the Constitutional Court started its work on 1 January 1990.\n\nAccording to Draft from 25. April 2011.\n\nThe Constitutional Court (Article 24.)\n\n(1) The Constitutional Court shall be the main authority for constitutional protection.\n\n(2) The Constitutional Court shall\n\na) review the constitutionality of laws adopted, but not yet published,\n\nb) review at the request of a judge the constitutionality of legislation\nto be applied in an individual case,\n\nc) on the basis of a constitutional complaint, review the\nconstitutionality of legislation or a judicial decision applied in an individual case,\n\nd) upon the initiative of the Government or one quarter of the\nMembers of Parliament review the constitutionality of laws,\n\ne) review the conflict of legislation with international treaties, and\n\nf) perform other duties and authorities defined in the Constitution and in super majority laws.\n\n(3) Acting pursuant to its jurisdiction in its competence under section b)-d) of paragraph (2), the Constitutional Court will annul laws and other legal norms, judicial decisions that it finds to be unconstitutional, pursuant to its jurisdiction under section e) of paragraph (2) annul laws or legal norms deemed to be in conflict with international treaties and will also rule on other issues set forth in super majority laws.\n\n(4) Acting pursuant to its jurisdiction under section c)-d) of paragraph (2), the Constitutional Court shall review the constitutionality of laws on the State Budget and its implementation, on central taxes, fees and customs duties, pension and health care contributions, as well as on the content of the statues concerning uniform requirements on local taxes only if the petition refers exclusively to the right to life and human dignity, the right to the protection of personal data, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion or the right connected to the Hungarian citizenship, if the conditions defined for adopting and promulgating the law have not been met.\n\n(5) The Constitutional Court is a body of 15 members, elected by Parliament for a period of twelve years by a two-third majority of the Members of Parliament. The Parliament will elect with a two-third majority of the Members of Parliament a President, with a mandate that lasts until the term of the judge’s mandate. Members of the Constitutional Court may not be members of a political party and may not engage in any political activities.\n\n\nThe Hungarian Constitution declares that members of the Constitutional Court shall be elected by Parliament. It also determines the rules of such elections. Impartiality is guaranteed by having proposed members of the Constitutional Court to be put forward by a nominating committee consisting of one member each from the factions of parties represented in Parliament and shall be elected by a two-thirds majority of all Members of Parliament. Hungarian law provides that only jurists of outstanding theoretical knowledge or having at least twenty years of legal practice may be elected members of the Constitutional Court. Membership is for a term of nine years and members may be re-elected once. The office of judges of the Constitutional Court comes to an end when they reach the age of 70 years.\n\nThe current composition of the court includes the following judges:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51015750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51015750", "title": "Directorate General of Mines Safety", "text": "Directorate General of Mines Safety\n\nThe Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) is an agency of the India which administers the provisions of the government of India Mines Act, 1952 and, the Rules and Regulations framed there under. As per Constitution of India, occupational safety, welfare and health of workers employed in mines(Coal, Metalliferous and oil-mines) are the concern of the Central Government, under the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment.\n\nDGMS carries out the mandates of the Mine Act at all mining and mineral processing operations in the India, regardless of size, number of employees, commodity mined, or method of extraction.\nThe organization has its headquarters at Dhanbad (Jharkhand) and is headed by Director-General of Mines Safety.\n\nTheir mission is of continuous improvement of ‘safety and health standards, practices and performances’ in mines and oil-fields of India.\n\nThey implement ‘pro-active safety and health strategies’, and continuously improve their processes. They ensure ‘effective use of resources’ and behavioral change in its personnel.\n\nDGMS administer following Acts and Regulations:\n\n"}
{"id": "3868154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3868154", "title": "Disciplinary institution", "text": "Disciplinary institution\n\nDisciplinary institutions (French: \"institution disciplinaire\") is a concept proposed by Michel Foucault in \"Discipline and Punish\" (1975). School, prison, barracks, or the hospital are examples of historical disciplinary institutions, all created in their modern form in the 19th century with the Industrial Revolution. Discipline \"cannot be identified with any one institution or apparatus,\" Deleuze explains, \"precisely because it is a type of power, a technology, that traverses every kind of apparatus or institution, linking them, prolonging them, and making them converge and function in a new way.\"\n\nThis concept may be related to the concept of \"total institution\" proposed by Erving Goffman in 1961, as well as to Louis Althusser's Ideological State Apparatuses (ISA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3409174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3409174", "title": "Disposal tax effect", "text": "Disposal tax effect\n\nThe situation of additional taxes or tax savings resulting from selling the last item of its class in an inventory due to difference between its undepreciated capital cost (UCC) and its salvage value (SV).\n\n\"Disposal tax effect\" is a finance term originating from Engineering Economics. \n\nIn the case of formula_1, then there has been a relative gain in the sale of the item, which gets taxed. These gains are known as \"recaptured depreciation\" or \"recaptured CCA\". \n\nWhen formula_2, then there has been a loss, which results in tax savings.\n\nThe Central collection agency (CCA) which uses a method of depreciation and the undepreciated value which is the undepreciated capital cost. As CCA uses a declining balance it makes the disposal of assets complicated. The disposal tax effect (DTE) takes into account that the salvage value can cause a gain or a loss.\n\nThe disposal tax effect formula: DTE = (BookValue – SalvageValue)xTR.\n\nThe relevant book value in this case is determining the tax gain or loss of the asset. The tax basis then is the difference between the original cost and any accumulated depreciation.\n\nThe disposal tax effect (DTE) is also calculated by getting the difference between the UCC cost and the salvage value then multiplying the it by the tax rate (TR).[1]\n\nFor businesses the capital gain is from the appreciation value of the asset depending at which tax rate (TR) or tax law that will be applied at the time of the sale. The recapture of depreciation is calculated by how much the company has over-depreciated the asset in its life. The recapture allocation is taxed at ordinary rates as excess depreciation over the years essentially reduced taxable income. The basis value is the price of the fixed asset.\n\nTax on recapture is calculated by = (BookValue – BasisValue) x TR Capital gains tax = (BasisValue – Salvage Value) x TR/2 Disposal tax effect (DTE) = (tax on recapture + Capital gains tax)\n\nIf a company sells an asset for less than the tax basis this causes a loss in capital. This means that the assets value has decreased more than its depreciation value for tax. When capital loss occurs then a special tax rate is given. The benefit of this is that the sale of an asset is the amount by which the taxes are reduced (tax shield).\n\nWhen there are capital gains and losses in the same year, the two values are then combined so that capital loss reduces and the taxes are paid on the capital gains.\n\nIn the case of an excess in capital losses the remaining capital loss is used to reduce the ordinary capital income. The disposal tax effect (DTE) can be negative (when our salvage value is greater than our book value) which means that the tax effect increases taxes. Disposal tax effect (DTE) can also be negative if our asset is sold for a price greater than its purchase price but it is also equal to sum of the two tax effects.\n\nIf an asset has been fully depreciated (when the aggregate tax deductions are equal to the original cost of the asset) there are no additional tax implications placed on the asset.\n\nAdvantages An advantage of having a loss from sale on an asset is the amount of the reduction on taxes after. The reduction in taxable income is known as a tax shield. [2]\n\nIn Ireland at least 50% of the revenue which disposal tax brings in to the government it is poured back into biological treatment of bio-waste and mechanical-biological treatment of waste. This reduces organic content of waste which goes into landfills or for incineration. This is highly beneficial for the environment.\n\nWhile in Catalan it discourages landfills and incineration in accordance and reinforcement of the European waste management it penalizes them economically.\n\nEssentially the making of disposal can be more expensive but on the other hand it creates revenue for local authorities by diversified refunds for separate collection.\n\nDisposal of new asset If a company sells an asset for more than what it is worth then the gain is broken into two parts. Capital gain (sales price – original price) and recapture depreciation which is (original cost – tax basis). the benefit is the increased capital from appreciation of the asset and will be taxed at a new special rate depending on the tax law at the time of sale.\n\n"}
{"id": "692401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692401", "title": "Elective dictatorship", "text": "Elective dictatorship\n\nAn \"elective dictatorship\" (also called executive dominance in political science) is a phrase popularised by the former Lord Chancellor of the United Kingdom, Lord Hailsham, in a Richard Dimbleby Lecture at the BBC in 1976. The phrase is found a century earlier, in describing Giuseppe Garibaldi's doctrines, and was used by Hailsham (then known as Quintin Hogg) in lectures in 1968 and 1969. It describes the state in which Parliament is dominated by the government of the day. It refers to the fact that the legislative programme of Parliament is determined by the government, and government bills virtually always pass the House of Commons because of the nature of the majoritarian first-past-the-post electoral system, which almost always produces strong government, in combination with the imposition of party discipline on the governing party's majority, which almost always ensures loyalty. In the absence of a codified constitution, this tendency toward executive dominance is compounded by the Parliament Acts and Salisbury Convention which circumscribe the House of Lords and their ability to block government initiatives.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, ultimate legislative sovereignty resides in Parliament (Parliamentary sovereignty). Parliament may pass any legislation on any subject it wishes. Parliament operates without restraints such as, for instance, an obligation to legislate in accordance with fundamental constitutional rights. The apparent exceptions to this rule are situations in which Parliament has chosen to limit itself as with the case of implementation of European Union law, where British courts can \"disapply\" UK legislation that is in conflict with EU law, but could withdraw such authority.\n\nParliament consists of the House of Lords, the House of Commons and the Monarch. The customary common law rule is that in order for a bill to become an act of Parliament, it is necessary for it to be passed in both the Commons and the Lords. The bill will then go before the Monarch who has formal discretion whether to assent to the bill. On receiving Royal Assent, it will become an Act of Parliament and will be applied by the courts.\n\nSuch is the theory; in practice Royal Assent has become a formality, the monarch has not refused (or threatened to refuse) assent to a bill for some 300 years (Queen Anne in 1708). Further, since 1911, the House of Lords has lost its position of equality with the Commons. The Parliament Acts of 1911 and 1949 reduced the power of the Lords from an absolute veto to a suspensive veto. Once the same bill has been passed by the Commons and rejected by the Lords in two different sessions of Parliament, a third introduction of the bill will require only the consent of the Commons. Such a bill will then go for Royal Assent and will become law, irrespective of the view of the Lords. The Commons have, therefore, become the dominant component of Parliament - whoever controls the Commons controls Parliament, the primary legislative body of the land.\n\nThe party which commands a majority in the House of Commons forms the government. The governing party should consequently be able to pass any bill they wish through the Commons, provided that voting discipline is enforced amongst their Members of Parliament (MPs). This is accomplished largely through the whip system. The dominance of Parliament's legislative programme by the majority party is such that 95 per cent of bills are initiated by the government. Rebellions, though not unknown, are rare.\n\nThe government, so long as they can keep their MPs on-side, stand an excellent chance of getting their legislation through the Commons. The Lords may or may not also approve the legislation, however a combination of judicious compromise from the government, combined with the Salisbury Convention and the overarching threat of the Parliament Act means that most legislation also manages to get through the Lords. Royal Assent then invariably follows.\n\nHailsham borrowed the expression \"elective dictatorship\" to describe this situation in which control of the Commons (and thus of Parliament) by the government is actually weak. His paper was published as a criticism of the Labour government of Harold Wilson and James Callaghan. He saw these weak governments as undemocratic, as despite their slim hold on the Commons they were able to pass a large number of their bills. He saw this as undemocratic as they did not reflect, as Hailsham saw it, wide enough support in the country. Many have interpreted Hailsham's criticism as being one against large majorities. In fact, he actually saw these as more democratic, as they had commanded more support at elections.\n\nA common proposal from reformers to reduce this executive dominance is to reduce the power of the majority party by adopting an electoral system based on proportional representation for the Commons. The Green Party of England and Wales, Liberal Democrats, and Scottish National Party have consistently supported PR for the Commons, although without noticeable support from larger parties.\n\nSome groups, such as Charter 88, have argued that a codified, written constitution with appropriate checks and balances is also essential to solving the problem of executive dominance, although again without popular success.\n\nThe Power Inquiry in its 2006 report \"Power to the People\" made recommendations on how to deal with the democratic deficit inherent in the UK system of governance.\n\n"}
{"id": "9639784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9639784", "title": "Equal justice under law", "text": "Equal justice under law\n\nEqual justice under law is a phrase engraved on the front of the United States Supreme Court building in Washington D.C. It is also a societal ideal that has influenced the American legal system.\n\nThe phrase was proposed by the building's architects, and then approved by judges of the Court in 1932. It is based upon Fourteenth Amendment jurisprudence, and has historical antecedents dating back to ancient Greece.\n\nThis phrase was suggested in 1932 by the architectural firm that designed the building. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and Justice Willis Van Devanter subsequently approved this inscription, as did the United States Supreme Court Building Commission which Hughes chaired (and on which Van Devanter served).\n\nThe architectural firm that proposed the phrase was headed by Cass Gilbert, though Gilbert himself was much more interested in design and arrangement, than in meaning. Thus, according to David Lynn who at that time held the position of Architect of the Capitol, the two people at Gilbert's firm who were responsible for the slogan \"equal justice under law\" were Gilbert's son (Cass Gilbert, Jr.) and Gilbert's partner, John R. Rockart.\n\nIn 1935, the journalist Herbert Bayard Swope objected to Chief Justice Hughes about this inscription, urging that the word \"equal\" be removed because such a \"qualification\" renders the phrase too narrow; the equality principle would still be implied without that word, Swope said. Hughes refused, writing that it was appropriate to \"place a strong emphasis upon impartiality\".\n\nThis legal soundbite atop the Court is perceived differently by different people, sometimes as ostentatious, often as profound, and occasionally as vacuous. According to law professor Jim Chen, it is common for people to \"suggest that disagreement with some contestable legal proposition or another would be tantamount to chiseling or sandblasting 'Equal Justice Under Law' from the Supreme Court's portico.\" The phrase may be perceived in a variety of ways, but it very distinctly does not say \"equal law under justice\", which would have meant that the judiciary can prioritize justice over law.\n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" paraphrase an earlier expression coined in 1891 by the Supreme Court. In the case of \"Caldwell v. Texas\", Chief Justice Melville Fuller wrote on behalf of a unanimous Court as follows, regarding the Fourteenth Amendment: \"the powers of the States in dealing with crime within their borders are not limited, but no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" The last seven words are summarized by the inscription on the U.S. Supreme Court building.\n\nLater in 1891, Fuller's opinion for the Court in \"Leeper v. Texas\" again referred to \"equal...justice under...law\". Like \"Caldwell\", the \"Leeper\" opinion was unanimous, in contrast to the Fuller Court's major disagreements about equality issues in other cases such as \"Plessy v. Ferguson\". \n\nIn both \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", murder indictments were challenged because they allegedly gave inadequate notice of the crimes being charged. The Court upheld the indictments because they followed the form required by Texas law. In a case nine years later (\"Maxwell v. Dow\"), the Court quoted the \"equal...justice under...law\" phrase that it had used in \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", to make the point that Utah could devise its own criminal procedure, as long as defendants are \"proceeded against by the same kind of procedure and ... have the same kind of trial, and the equal protection of the laws is secured to them.\"\n\nIn the 1908 case of \"Ughbanks v. Armstrong\", the Fuller Court yet again discussed the Fourteenth Amendment in similar terms, but this time mentioning punishments: \"The last-named Amendment was not intended to, and does not, limit the powers of a State in dealing with crime committed within its own borders or with the punishment thereof, although no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" \n\n\"Ughbanks\" was a burglary case, and the opinion was written for the Court by Justice Rufus Peckham, while Justice John Marshall Harlan was the sole dissenter. The Court would later reject the idea that the Fourteenth Amendment does not limit punishments (see the 1962 case of \"Robinson v. California\"). \n\nIn the years since moving into their present building, the Supreme Court has often connected the words \"equal justice under law\" with the Fourteenth Amendment. For example, in the 1958 case of \"Cooper v. Aaron\", the Court said: \"The Constitution created a government dedicated to equal justice under law. The Fourteenth Amendment embodied and emphasized that ideal.\" \n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" are not in the Constitution, which instead says that no state shall \"deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.\" From an architectural perspective, the main advantage of the former over the latter was brevity — the Equal Protection Clause was not short enough to fit on the pediment given the size of the letters to be used.\n\nIn the funeral oration that he delivered in 431 BC, the Athenian leader Pericles encouraged belief in what we now call equal justice under law. Thus, when Chief Justice Fuller wrote his opinion in \"Caldwell v. Texas\", he was by no means the first to discuss this concept. There are several different English translations of the relevant passage in Pericles' funeral oration. \n\nHere is Pericles discussing \"equal justice\" according to the English translation by Richard Crawley in 1874:\n\nOur constitution does not copy the laws of neighbouring states; we are rather a pattern to others than imitators ourselves. Its administration favours the many instead of the few; this is why it is called a democracy. If we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all in their private differences; if no social standing, advancement in public life falls to reputation for capacity, class considerations not being allowed to interfere with merit; nor again does poverty bar the way, if a man is able to serve the state, he is not hindered by the obscurity of his condition.\n\nThe English translation by Benjamin Jowett in 1881 likewise had Pericles saying: \"the law secures equal justice to all alike in their private disputes\". And, the English translation by Rex Warner in 1954 had Pericles saying: \"there exists equal justice to all and alike in their private disputes\". The funeral oration by Pericles was published in Thucydides’ \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", of which there are several other English translations. \n\nAs quoted above, Pericles said that a person's wealth or prominence should not influence his eligibility for public employment or affect the justice he receives. Similarly, Chief Justice Hughes defended the inscription \"equal justice under law\" by referring to the judicial oath of office, which requires judges to \"administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich\". Decades later, Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall made a similar point: \"The principles which would have governed with $10,000 at stake should also govern when thousands have become billions. That is the essence of equal justice under law.\"\n\n\nStatue of Thurgood Marshall featuring \"Equal Justice Under Law\".\n"}
{"id": "2001231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001231", "title": "Evidence (law)", "text": "Evidence (law)\n\nThe law of evidence, also known as the rules of evidence, encompasses the rules and legal principles that govern the proof of facts in a legal proceeding. These rules determine what evidence must or must not be considered by the trier of fact in reaching its decision. The trier of fact is a judge in bench trials, or the jury in any cases involving a jury. The law of evidence is also concerned with the quantum (amount), quality, and type of proof needed to prevail in litigation. The rules vary depending upon whether the venue is a criminal court, civil court, or family court, and they vary by jurisdiction.\n\nThe quantum of evidence is the amount of evidence needed; the quality of proof is how reliable such evidence should be considered. Important rules that govern admissibility concern hearsay, authentication, relevance, privilege, witnesses, opinions, expert testimony, identification and rules of physical evidence. There are various standards of evidence or standards showing how strong the evidence must be to meet the legal burden of proof in a given situation, ranging from reasonable suspicion to preponderance of the evidence, clear and convincing evidence, or beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nThere are several types of evidence, depending on the form or source. Evidence governs the use of testimony (e.g., oral or written statements, such as an affidavit), exhibits (e.g., physical objects), documentary material, or demonstrative evidence, which are admissible (i.e., allowed to be considered by the trier of fact, such as jury) in a judicial or administrative proceeding (e.g., a court of law).\n\nWhen a dispute, whether relating to a civil or criminal matter, reaches the court there will always be a number of issues which one party will have to prove in order to persuade the court to find in his or her favour. The law must ensure certain guidelines are set out in order to ensure that evidence presented to the court can be regarded as trustworthy.\n\nThe rules of evidence were developed over several centuries and are based upon the rules from Anglo-American common law brought to the New World by early settlers. Their purpose is to be fair to both parties, disallowing the raising of allegations without a basis in provable fact. They are sometimes criticized as a legal technicality, but are an important part of the system for achieving a just result.\n\nPerhaps the most important of the rules of evidence is that, in general, hearsay testimony is inadmissible (although there are many exceptions to this rule). In England and Wales, the Civil Evidence Act 1995, section 1, specifically allows for admission of 'hearsay' evidence; legislation also allows for 'hearsay' evidence to be used in criminal proceedings, which makes it possible for the accuser to induce friends or family to give false evidence in support of their accusations because, normally, it would be rejected by the presiding authority or judge. There are several examples where presiding authorities are not bound by the rules of evidence. These include the military tribunals in the United States and tribunals used in Australia to try health professionals.\n\nIn every jurisdiction based on the English common law tradition, evidence must conform to a number of rules and restrictions to be admissible. Evidence must be relevantthat is, it must be directed at proving or disproving a legal element.\n\nHowever, the relevance of evidence is ordinarily a necessary condition but not a sufficient condition for the admissibility of evidence. For example, relevant evidence may be excluded if it is unfairly prejudicial, confusing, or the relevance or irrelevance of evidence cannot be determined by logical analysis. There is also general agreement that assessment of relevance or irrelevance involves or requires judgements about probabilities or uncertainties. Beyond that, there is little agreement. Many legal scholars and judges agree that ordinary reasoning, or common sense reasoning, plays an important role. There is less agreement about whether or not judgements of relevance or irrelevance are defensible only if the reasoning that supports such judgements is made fully explicit. However, most trial judges would reject any such requirement and would say that some judgements can and must rest partly on unarticulated and unarticulable hunches and intuitions. However, there is general (though implicit) agreement that the relevance of at least some types of expert evidenceparticularly evidence from the hard sciencesrequires particularly rigorous, or in any event more arcane reasoning than is usually needed or expected. There is a general agreement that judgments of relevance are largely within the discretion of the trial courtalthough relevance rulings that lead to the exclusion of evidence are more likely to be reversed on appeal than are relevance rulings that lead to the admission of evidence.\n\nAccording to Rule 401 of the Federal Rules of Evidence (FRE), evidence is relevant if it has the \"tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence.\" \n\nFederal Rule 403 allows relevant evidence to be excluded \"if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice\", if it leads to confusion of the issues, if it is misleading or if it is a waste of time. California Evidence Code section 352 also allows for exclusion to avoid \"substantial danger of undue prejudice.\" For example, evidence that the victim of a car accident was apparently a \"liar, cheater, womanizer, and a man of low morals\" was unduly prejudicial and irrelevant to whether he had a valid product liability claim against the manufacturer of the tires on his van (which had rolled over resulting in severe brain damage).\n\nThe United States has a very complicated system of evidentiary rules; for example, John Wigmore's celebrated treatise on it filled ten volumes. James Bradley Thayer reported in 1898 that even English lawyers were surprised by the complexity of American evidence law, such as its reliance on exceptions to preserve evidentiary objections for appeal.\n\nSome legal experts, notably Stanford legal historian Lawrence Friedman, have argued that the complexity of American evidence law arises from two factors: (1) the right of American defendants to have findings of fact made by a jury in practically all criminal cases as well as many civil cases; and (2) the widespread consensus that tight limitations on the admissibility of evidence are necessary to prevent a jury of untrained laypersons from being swayed by irrelevant distractions. In Professor Friedman's words: \"A trained judge would not need all these rules; and indeed, the law of evidence in systems that lack a jury is short, sweet, and clear.\" However, Friedman's views are characteristic of an earlier generation of legal scholars. The majority of people now reject the formerly-popular proposition that the institution of trial by jury is the main reason for the existence of rules of evidence even in countries such as the United States and Australia; they argue that are at work.\n\nUnder English law, evidence that would otherwise be admissible at trial may be excluded at the discretion of the trial judge if it would be unfair to the defendant to admit it.\n\nEvidence of a confession may be excluded because it was obtained by oppression or because the confession was made in consequence of anything said or done to the defendant that would be likely to make the confession unreliable. In these circumstances, it would be open to the trial judge to exclude the evidence of the confession under Section 78(1) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE), or under Section 73 PACE, or under common law, although in practice the confession would be excluded under section 76 PACE.\n\nOther admissible evidence may be excluded, at the discretion of the trial judge under 78 PACE, or at common law, if the judge can be persuaded that having regard to all the circumstances including how the evidence was obtained \"admission of the evidence would have such an adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings that the court ought not to admit it.\"\n\nIn the United States and other countries, evidence may be excluded from a trial if it is the result of illegal activity by law enforcement, such as a search conducted without a warrant. Such illegal evidence is known as the fruit of the poisonous tree and is normally not permitted at trial.\n\nCertain kinds of evidence, such as documentary evidence, are subject to the requirement that the offeror provide the trial judge with a certain amount of evidence (which need not be much and it need not be very strong) suggesting that the offered item of tangible evidence (e.g., a document, a gun) is what the offeror claims it is. This authentication requirement has import primarily in jury trials. If evidence of authenticity is lacking in a bench trial, the trial judge will simply dismiss the evidence as unpersuasive or irrelevant. Other kinds of evidence can be self-authenticating and require nothing to prove that the item is tangible evidence. Examples of self-authenticating evidence includes signed and certified public documents, newspapers, and acknowledged documents.\n\nIn systems of proof based on the English common law tradition, almost all evidence must be sponsored by a witness, who has sworn or solemnly affirmed to tell the truth. The bulk of the law of evidence regulates the types of evidence that may be sought from witnesses and the manner in which the interrogation of witnesses is conducted such as during direct examination and cross-examination of witnesses. Other types of evidentiary rules specify the standards of persuasion (e.g., proof beyond a reasonable doubt) that a trier of fact—whether judge or jury—must apply when it assesses evidence.\n\nToday all persons are presumed to be qualified to serve as witnesses in trials and other legal proceedings, and all persons are also presumed to have a legal obligation to serve as witnesses if their testimony is sought. However, legal rules sometimes exempt people from the obligation to give evidence and legal rules disqualify people from serving as witnesses under some circumstances.\n\nPrivilege rules give the holder of the privilege a right to prevent a witness from giving testimony. These privileges are ordinarily (but not always) designed to protect socially valued types of confidential communications. Some of the privileges that are often recognized in various U.S. jurisdictions are spousal privilege, attorney–client privilege, doctor–patient privilege, state secrets privilege, and clergy–penitent privilege. A variety of additional privileges are recognized in different jurisdictions, but the list of recognized privileges varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction; for example, some jurisdictions recognize a social worker–client privilege and other jurisdictions do not.\n\nWitness competence rules are legal rules that specify circumstances under which persons are ineligible to serve as witnesses. For example, neither a judge nor a juror is competent to testify in a trial in which the judge or the juror serves in that capacity; and in jurisdictions with a dead man statute, a person is deemed not competent to testify as to statements of or transactions with a deceased opposing party.\n\nOften, a Government or Parliamentary Act will govern the rules affecting the giving of evidence by witnesses in court. An example is the \"Evidence Act(NSW)\"1995 which sets out the procedures for witnesses to follow in New South Wales, Australia.\n\nHearsay is one of the largest and most complex areas of the law of evidence in common-law jurisdictions. The default rule is that hearsay evidence is inadmissible. Hearsay is an out of court statement offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. A party is offering a statement to prove the truth of the matter asserted if the party is trying to prove that the assertion made by the declarant (the maker of the out-of-trial statement) is true. For example, prior to trial Bob says, \"Jane went to the store.\" If the party offering this statement as evidence at trial is trying to prove that Jane actually went to the store, the statement is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted. However, at both common law and under evidence codifications such as the Federal Rules of Evidence, there are dozens of exemptions from and exceptions to the hearsay rule.\n\nDirect evidence is any evidence that directly proves or disproves a fact. The most well-known type of direct evidence is a testimony from an eye witness. In eye-witness testimonies the witness states exactly what they experienced, saw, or heard. Direct evidence may also be found in the form of documents. In cases that involve a breach of contract, the contract itself would be considered direct evidence as it can directly prove or disprove that there was breach of contract. Circumstantial evidence, however, is evidence that does not point directly to a fact and requires an inference in order to prove that fact.\n\nA common example of the distinction between direct and circumstantial evidence involves a person who comes into a building, when it may be raining. If the person declares, \"It's raining outside,\" that statement is direct evidence that it is raining. If the person is carrying a wet umbrella, and he's wearing a wet rain coat, those observations are circumstantial evidence that it is raining outside.\n\nDifferent types of proceedings require parties to meet different burdens of proof, the typical examples being beyond a reasonable doubt, clear and convincing evidence, and preponderance of the evidence. Many jurisdictions have burden-shifting provisions, which require that if one party produces evidence tending to prove a certain point, the burden shifts to the other party to produce superior evidence tending to disprove it.\n\nOne special category of information in this area includes things of which the court may take judicial notice. This category covers matters that are so well known that the court may deem them proved without the introduction of \"any\" evidence. For example, if a defendant is alleged to have illegally transported goods across a state line by driving them from Boston to Los Angeles, the court may take judicial notice of the fact that it is impossible to drive from Boston to Los Angeles without crossing a number of state lines. In a civil case, where the court takes judicial notice of the fact, that fact is deemed conclusively proved. In a criminal case, however, the defense may always submit evidence to rebut a point for which judicial notice has been taken.\n\nSome rules that affect the admissibility of evidence are nonetheless considered to belong to other areas of law. These include the exclusionary rule of criminal procedure, which prohibits the admission in a criminal trial of evidence gained by unconstitutional means, and the parol evidence rule of contract law, which prohibits the admission of extrinsic evidence of the contents of a written contract.This practice is very common in today's complicated world.\n\nIn countries that follow the civil law system, evidence is normally studied as a branch of procedural law.\n\nAll American law schools offer a course in evidence, and most require the subject either as a first year class, or as an upper-level class, or as a prerequisite to later courses. Furthermore, evidence is heavily tested on the Multistate Bar Examination (MBE) - approximately one-sixth of the questions asked in that test will be in the area of evidence. The MBE predominantly tests evidence under the Federal Rules of Evidence, giving little attention to matters on which the law of different states is likely to be inconsistent.\n\nActs that conceal, corrupt, or destroy evidence can be considered spoliation of evidence and/or tampering with evidence. Spoliation is usually the civil-law/due-process variant, may involve intent or negligence, may affect the outcome of a case in which the evidence is material, and may or may not result in criminal prosecution. Tampering is usually the criminal law variant in which a person alters, conceals, falsifies, or destroys evidence to interfere with a law-enforcement, governmental, or regulatory investigation, and is usually defined as a crime. Parallel construction is the creation of an untruthful, but plausible, explanation for how the evidence came to be held, which hides its true origins, either to protect sources and methods used, or to avoid the evidence being excluded as unlawfully obtained. Depending on the circumstances, acts to conceal or destroy evidence or misrepresent its true origins might be considered both tampering and spoliation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227252", "title": "Exxon Corp v Exxon Insurance Consultants International Ltd", "text": "Exxon Corp v Exxon Insurance Consultants International Ltd\n\nExxon Corp. v. Exxon Insurance Consultants International Ltd [1982] Ch. 119 is a leading decision in English law on the existence of copyright in a name alone and the infringement of a trade mark. The Court found that typically there is no copyright in a name, invented or otherwise, and that a trade mark can only be infringed when there the infringing party shares part of the market segment.\n\nWith regard to the trade mark, the Court found that the use of this word by the defendants, who work in a field that in no way shares a market segment with the plaintiff, in no way dilutes the plaintiff's brand name nor infringes on its trade mark.\n"}
{"id": "256688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256688", "title": "Fee simple", "text": "Fee simple\n\nIn English law, a fee simple or fee simple absolute is an estate in land, a form of freehold ownership. It is a way that real estate and land may be owned in common law countries, and is the highest possible ownership interest that can be held in real property. Allodial title is reserved to governments under a civil law structure. The rights of the fee simple owner are limited by government powers of taxation, compulsory purchase, police power, and escheat, and it could also be limited further by certain encumbrances or conditions in the deed, such as, for example, a condition that required the land to be used as a public park, with a reversion interest in the grantor if the condition fails; this is a fee simple conditional.\n\nThe word \"fee\" is derived from fief, meaning a feudal landholding. Feudal land tenures existed in several varieties, most of which involved the tenant having to supply some service to his overlord, such as knight-service (military service). If the tenant's overlord was the king, Grand Serjeanty, then this might require providing many different services, such as providing horses in time of war or acting as the king's ceremonial butler. These fiefs gave rise to a complex relationship between landlord and tenant, involving duties on both sides. For example, in return for receiving his tenant's fealty or homage, the overlord had a duty to protect his tenant. When feudal land tenure was abolished all fiefs became \"simple\", without conditions attached to the tenancy.\n\nIn English common law, the Crown had radical title or the allodium of all land in England, meaning that it was the ultimate \"owner\" of all land in the past feudal era. However, the Crown can grant ownership in an abstract entity—called an estate in land—which is what is owned rather than the land it represents. The fee simple estate is also called \"estate in fee simple\" or \"fee-simple title\", sometimes simply \"freehold\" in England and Wales. From the start of the Norman period, when feudalism was introduced to England, the tenant or \"holder\" of a fief could not alienate (sell) it from the possession of his overlord. However, a tenant could separate a parcel of the land and grant it as a subordinate fief to his own sub-tenant, a process known as sub-enfeoffing or \"subinfeudation\". The 1290 Statute of Quia Emptores abolished subinfeudation and instead allowed the sale of fee simple estates.\n\nThe concept of a \"fee\" has its origins in feudalism. William Blackstone defined fee simple as the estate in land that a person has when the lands are given to him and his heirs absolutely, without any end or limit put to his estate. Land held in fee simple can be conveyed to whomsoever its owner pleases; it can also be mortgaged or put up as security.\nOwners of real property in fee simple have the privilege of interest in the property during their lifetime and typically have a say in determining who gets to own an interest in the property after their death.\n\nHistorically, estates could be limited in time. Common temporal limitations include life estate, a land ownership that terminates upon the grantee's (or another person's) death even if the land had been granted to a third party, or a term of years, a lease for a specified term, such as in an estate for years. A fee also could be limited through the method of its inheritance, such as by an \"entailment\", which created a fee tail. Traditionally, fee tail was created by words of grant such as \"to N. and the male heirs of his body\", which would restrict those who could inherit the property. If no heirs could be found, then the property would revert to the original grantor's heirs. Most common law countries have abolished entailment by statute.\n\nAn estate in fee simple denotes the maximum ownership in land that can be legally granted; it is the greatest possible aggregate of rights, powers, privileges and immunities available in land. The three hallmarks of the fee simple estate are that it is alienable, devisable and descendible.\n\nRules requiring words of general inheritance to create fee simple by conveyance have been abolished by statute in the United States. To convey an estate in fee simple at common law, the deed or will must state \"to B and his heirs.\" Anything short of those words transferred a smaller estate.\n\nModern deeds usually follow a standardized form. There is a presumption that the testator intends to convey his or her property in fee simple unless the will indicates an intention to transfer a smaller estate, such as a life estate.\n\nMany jurisdictions retain the possibility of creating a life estate, although this is uncommon. In the United States, life estates are most commonly used either to grant someone use of the property for the remainder of that person's life in a will, or by a grantor to reserve the right to continue using the property for the remainder of the grantor's life after it is sold. The right to ownership of the property after the death of the life estate owner is called the \"remainder estate\". In England and Wales fee simple is the only freehold estate that remains; a life estate can only be created in equity and is not a right in property.\n\nIf previous grantors of a fee simple estate do not create any conditions for subsequent grantees, then the title is called fee simple absolute. A fee simple absolute is the highest estate permitted by law and it gives the holder full possessory rights and obligations now and in the future. Other fee simple estates in real property include fee simple defeasible (or fee simple determinable) estates. A defeasible estate is created when a grantor places a condition on a fee simple estate (in the deed). When a specified event happens, the estate may become void or subject to annulment. There are two types of defeasible estates: fee simple determinable and the fee simple subject to a condition subsequent. If the grantor uses durational language in the condition such as \"to A. as long as the land is used for a park\", then upon the happening of the specified event (in this case if the land is used for anything other than a park), the estate will automatically terminate and revert to the grantor or the grantor's estate; this is called a fee simple determinable. If the grantor uses language such as \"but if alcohol is served\", then the grantor or the heirs have a right of entry if the condition occurs, but the estate does not automatically revert to the grantor; this is a fee simple subject to a condition subsequent. In most jurisdictions in the United States these concepts have been modified by statute. Fee simple determinable was generally preferred by courts in the common law of the early United States. Recently, that trend has reversed, and most courts in the United States will find a fee simple subject to condition subsequent in situations where the conveying document's language is unclear.\n\nThe claim that no rent or similar obligations are due from the owner of property in fee simple is only partially true. For example, a rentcharge may exist requiring a freeholder to pay a fixed sum of money closely resembling rent, and many jurisdictions have created financial obligations that may be imposed on a freehold estate. England and Wales impose an estate charge. In the United States, fee simple owners are usually subject to property tax and the revenue generated is directed to the municipality's general fund. Other local tax assessments called \"special purpose taxes\" may be assessed in addition to the property taxes for specific purposes such as infrastructure improvements. Real estate owned as a condominium is usually similarly owned in fee simple, but typically subject to rules in the declaration of condominium or created by the condominium association, such as paying required monthly fees for maintaining the property's common areas; however, these are generally treated legally as covenants running with the land (contracts binding on the possessors of real property) imposing an affirmative duty to pay money rather than as rent for property held in fee simple.\n\nFee – A right in law to the use of land; i.e. a fief. Simple – in the unconstrained sense:\nThe English word \"fee\" ultimately goes back to the Indo-European root \"*peku\", which refers to moveable wealth, that is, cattle. The Latin word \"pecunia\", money, also comes from this root and becomes \"pecuniary\" in English. The root appears in Modern German as \"Vieh\", cattle, beast.\n"}
{"id": "2255847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2255847", "title": "Fundamental breach", "text": "Fundamental breach\n\nFundamental breach of contract is a controversial concept within the common law of contract. \n\nAlthough the concept caused some excitement in the 1950s and 1960s, the concept has been regarded as flawed and wrongheaded and has been effectively \"laid to rest\" in England and Canada.\n\nThe origins of the idea of fundamental breach may be traced to early cases on the doctrine of deviation. In \"Davis v. Garrett\" Tindal C.J. stated that a carrier's deviation from the agreed voyage route amounted also to a deviation from the terms of the contract, including its exceptions or limitation clauses provided by such a contract. This view was adopted in the leading cases of \"Glynn v Margetson\" and \"Leduc v Ward\". \n\nIn \"Glynn v Margetson\" (1893) a vessel carrying Seville oranges from Malaga to Liverpool deviated from the agreed route, by heading first to Burriana (near Valencia). This deviation caused delay and deterioration of the perishable cargo. The carrier relied on a 'liberty clause' in the bill of lading which purported to allow the vessel 'liberty to visit any port in any order'. In the House of Lords, Lord Herschell LC declared the liberty clause to be an exemption clause in disguise, adding \"The main object of this bill of lading is the carriage of oranges from Malaga to Liverpool\". He thus established the \"main purpose rule\", holding that no exclusion clause would be allowed to cut into the main purpose of any contract. \n\nSimilarly, in \"Leduc v Ward\" (1888) a vessel bound from Fiume to Dunkirk headed instead towards Glasgow, sinking in a storm in the Clyde estuary. The court held that even though the shipper may have known of the planned deviation, the parol evidence rule meant that the route described in the bill of lading was conclusive, and that the deviation was actionable, preventing the carrier from invoking the protection of the \"perils of the sea\" exemption.\n\n\"Tate & Lyle v Hain Steamship Company\" was a further deviation case following this approach.\n\nAlthough the 19th century cases were maritime cases, the idea of the \"main purpose\" caught on in the general law of contract after Lord Greene MR, in \"Alderslade v. Hendon Laundry Ltd.\"(1945) , labelled the fundamental term as ‘the hard core of the contract'. \n\nIn \"Karsales v Wallis\" [1956] EWCA Civ 4 a buyer inspected a car dealer's used Buick car and agreed to buy it. The car was later delivered at night, and had been towed. When the buyer inspected the car in the morning, it would not work and it was clear it had been involved in an accident, and there were other changes: its tyres had been replaced by old ones, body parts were missing, and the engine's cylinder head was detached, revealing burnt valves. This was a serious breach, but the dealer sought to rely on a clause in the contract: \"No condition or warranty that the vehicle is roadworthy or as to its age, condition or fitness for any purpose is given by the owner or implied herein.\"\n\nAlthough the clause was clear and well drafted, the Court of Appeal declared that a \"car\" was a \"vehicle capable of self-propulsion\", and accordingly this Buick was not a proper car. Following \"Glynn v Margetson\" and using its \"main purpose\" concept, the court held that the dealer was \"in breach of a fundamental obligation\" and so could not rely on any exclusion clause.\n\nThis decision was clearly fair to the buyer, and \"Karsales v Wallis\" soon became the leading case on \"fundamental breach\". As a matter of law, under the doctrine of fundamental breach of contract, exclusion clauses were deemed not to be available to a party in fundamental breach of the contract. However, all was not well, as business people felt alarmed that an agreed contract term could be set aside by a court; there seemed to be no \"certainty\".\n\nAlso, there arose some confusion as to what \"fundamental breach\" actually was. Some alleged it was a breach that went to \"the root of the contract\", a breach so fundamental it would permit the distressed party to repudiate the contract and claim damages. However, since both common law and statute already recognised that while that breach of warranty entitled a claimant only to damages, any breach of condition would entitle a claimant both repudiation and damages, it seemed that fundamental breach offered nothing new.\n\nThe matter came to a head in 1966 in the House of Lords decision \"Suisse Atlantique\". The case involved a two-year time charter to export coal, the shipowners to be paid freight dependant on tonnage of cargo carried. If laytime were exceeded, the charterers were to pay demurrage of $1,000 per day. The charterers caused huge delays and few round trips were made. Demurrage totalled only $150,000, so the owners claimed damages for their full losses, saying they should not be limited to the demurrage terms because the charterer's gross delays amounted to fundamental breach.\n\nThe House of Lords boldly held that \"Karsales v Wallis\" had overstated the law, and that whether or not a fundamental breach extinguishes any protection that the defendant might rely on was a \"question of construction\" and not a \"question of law\". Although the demurrage clause was so absurdly low that it amounted to an exemption clause, nevertheless its existence plainly showed that the parties had contemplated the possibility of delay, so delays would not amount to fundamental breach.\n\nAfter the \"Suisse Atlantique\" decision, there was a series of cases where the Court of Appeal patently ignored the House of Lords' findings. One such case was \"Harbutt's \"Plasticine\" Ltd v Wayne Tank and Pump Co Ltd\". The House of Lords was less than amused, and in the 1980 \"Photo Productions\" case they emphatically reaffirmed their decision in the \"Suisse Atlantique\". Lord Wilberforce effectively overturned the \"rule of law\" doctrine of \"Karsales v Wallis\" and instead maintained a strict \"rule of construction\" approach whereby a fundamental breach is determined by examining the full circumstances, such as the parties' intentions at the time of the contract.\n\nThese two cases (the \"Suisse Atlantique\" and \"Photo Productions\") thus form the definitive statement of the law up to the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977.\n\nMore recently, this law was successfully applied in two cases related to carriage of goods by sea and application of limitation clauses under the Hague-Visby Rules: \"Daewoo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. Klipriver Shipping Ltd.\" and \"The Happy Ranger\"\n\nAlthough the \"Suisse Atlantique\" case has taken the sting out of the fundamental breach idea, in deviation itself little has changed. \"Glynn v Margetson\" still holds, so that not only may deviating carriers be denied the protection of exemption clauses expressly in the contract, they will also be denied the protection of implicit exemptions such as Article IV of the Hague-Visby Rules. However, given the general move in the common law away from strict liability to a standard of \"reasonable care\" (or \"due diligence\"), this may change in due course.\n\nThe doctrine of fundamental breach has been “laid to rest” by the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Tercon Contractors Ltd. v. British Columbia (Transportation and Highways).\" In its place, the court has created a three-step test to evaluate the application of exclusion clauses. The first step is to evaluate the exclusion clause in the factual context of each case to determine if it applies to the material circumstances. The second step is to evaluate if the exclusion clause was unconscionable at the time of incorporation. The final step is to evaluate whether the exclusion clause should not be enforced on public policy grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "41694515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41694515", "title": "Garden State Equality", "text": "Garden State Equality\n\nGarden State Equality is a statewide advocacy and education organization in the U.S. state of New Jersey that advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights, including same-sex marriage.\n\nGarden State Equality was founded in 2004 by Steven Goldstein; he left the organization in 2013 and Troy Stevenson was promoted to take his role.\n\nIn 2011, Lambda Legal filed a lawsuit on behalf of Garden State Equality and six same-sex families against New Jersey, arguing that the state's civil union system failed to provide those same benefits and violated New Jersey's guarantee of equal protection. On September 27, 2013, Judge Mary Jacobson ruled that same-sex marriage should be legal and ordered the state to begin allowing same-sex marriages on October 21, 2013. The state quickly appealed the decision and asked for a stay to delay the implementation of the court order. On October 18, 2013, the Supreme Court of New Jersey unanimously affirmed Judge Jacobson's denial of the stay and ruled that state should begin issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples as ordered. Hours after the first marriages were officiated on October 21, 2013, the state dropped its legal challenge and New Jersey became the 14th state with the freedom to marry for all couples, barring age restrictions.\n\nGarden State Equality programming focuses primarily on public policy advocacy and grassroots organizing.\n\nThe organization's grassroots programs include volunteer work, training, town meetings, and action nights, where participants can provide input on or participate In the organization's work.\n\nGarden State Equality stresses the importance of volunteer work for the organization. There are many difference branches of service available within the organization, such as a campaign for the homeless and those in poverty, which helps to gather more information about these miniority groups and hopefully take action to improve their living standards. This specific campaign not only aids the LGBT community but also often caters to the impoverished, homeless, and incarcerated.\n\nAn anti-bullying hotline collects reports from parents, students and others about incidents of bullying against students. The organization visits schools to conduct trainings for administrators, teachers and other staff on New Jersey's anti-bullying law, and how to comply with it. The organization also conducts a different age-appropriate anti-bullying training for students.\n\nAt the annual Equality Walk, volunteers get sponsored by friends to do a two to three mile walk on a Sunday. The walk ends at a pub, where a celebration of the walk's completion is held.\n\nGarden State Equality has held numerous town meetings on LGBT issues, such as same-sex marriage, across the state. The organization also holds telephone town meetings with public officials on conference calls with as many as 200 people. The organization has also held lobby days where volunteers meet with legislators and their staff on LGBT issues.\n\nGarden State Equality's former grassroots programs include Activist Institutes that trained volunteers in organizing skills, and the \"Equality Express\", a motor home that traveled to large events in New Jersey to educate people on LGBT issues. The organization also held \"Helping You Personally\" seminars, where experts in legal and finance spoke on issues of interest to LGBT people in New Jersey.\n\nPrior to legal recognition of same-sex marriages in New Jersey, the organization volunteered to collect letters and postcards in support of marriage equality. The organization developed thirteen caucuses to help to diversify New Jersey's LGBT rights movement. Each caucus serves a different demographic community such as African-Americans, clergy, labor, women, and youth.\n\nAs a part of legislative dinners, Assembly Members and State Senators met Garden State Equality members at the members' homes. Many New Jersey legislators have attended at least one town meeting or legislative dinner.\n\nGarden State Equality's Legends Dinner is the organization's annual gala attended by 700 to 1,000 guests. Speakers and entertainers have included Governor Mario Cuomo, Senator Frank Lautenberg, Fran Drescher, Cynthia Nixon, Judy Gold, Anthony Rapp, and Jennifer Holliday.\n\n"}
{"id": "42196578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196578", "title": "High-capacity magazine ban", "text": "High-capacity magazine ban\n\nA high-capacity magazine ban is a law which bans or otherwise restricts high-capacity magazines, detachable firearm magazines that can hold more than a certain number of rounds of ammunition. For example, in the United States, the now-expired Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994 included limits regarding magazines that could hold more than ten rounds. Eight U.S. states, and a number of local governments, ban or regulate magazines that they have legally defined as high-capacity. The majority of states (42) do not ban or regulate any magazines on the basis of capacity. States that do have large capacity magazine bans or restrictions typically do not apply to firearms with fixed magazines whose capacity would otherwise exceed the large capacity threshold.\n\nThe federal ban of 1994 (expired no longer in effect) defined a magazine capable of holding more than 10 rounds of ammunition as a \"large capacity ammunition feeding device.\" Likewise, the state of California defines a \"large capacity magazine\" as \"any ammunition feeding device with a capacity to accept more than 10 rounds.\" Such devices are commonly called high-capacity magazines. Among states with bans, the maximum capacity is 10 to 20 rounds. Several municipalities, such as New York City, restrict magazine capacity to 5 rounds for rifles and shotguns. The state of New York previously limited magazine capacity to 7 rounds, but a District Court ruled this ban to be excessive and could not \"survive intermediate scrutiny\". Most Americans support the sale and possession of high capacity magazines, according to polls.\n\nMost pistols sold in the U.S. are made and sold with magazines holding between 10 and 17 rounds. In November 2013, the National Rifle Association sued the city of San Francisco over an ordinance banning possession of magazines capable of holding more than 10 rounds. At the time, no court had overturned a ban on high-capacity guns or magazines. In March 2014, the Supreme Court refused to halt a similar ban by the city of Sunnyvale, California.\n\nWith the passage of Bill C-17 in 1993 under Prime Minister Kim Campbell (in response to the 1989 Ecole Polytechnique Massacre), magazines designed for use in semi-automatic centrefire rifles and semi-automatic shotguns became limited to five rounds, and magazines designed for use in handguns are limited to 10 rounds. Magazines designed for use in semi-automatic rimfire rifles, as well as manually operated long guns, are exempt from the magazine capacity restrictions.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a growing trend of ways to legally work around the magazine capacity restrictions. Numerous semi-automatic centrefire rifles also happen to accept handgun magazines, thereby legally increasing magazine capacity. Numerous rifle and handgun magazines designed for a particular caliber also happen to fit an over-the-limit number of smaller caliber rounds, also legally increasing magazine capacity.\n\nWilliam B. Ruger, a founder of Sturm, Ruger & Co., is often ascribed with providing the impetus for high capacity magazine restrictions. Ruger proposed that instead of banning firearms, Congress should outlaw magazines holding more than 15 rounds. “No honest man needs more than 10 rounds in any gun,” Ruger told Tom Brokaw of NBC News in 1992. On March 30, 1989, Ruger sent a letter to every member of the US Congress stating:\n\n\"The best way to address the firepower concern is therefore not to try to outlaw or license many millions of older and perfectly legitimate firearms (which would be a licensing effort of staggering proportions) but to prohibit the possession of high capacity magazines. By a simple, complete and unequivocal ban on large capacity magazines, all the difficulty of defining 'assault rifle' and 'semi-automatic rifles' is eliminated. The large capacity magazine itself, separate or attached to the firearm, becomes the prohibited item. A single amendment to Federal firearms laws could effectively implement these objectives.\"\n\nWilliam B. Ruger\n\nThe Federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1993 included a ban on magazines capable of holding more than ten rounds of ammunition. The Public Safety and Recreational Firearms Use Protection Act, commonly called the assault weapons ban (AWB), was enacted in September 1994. The ban, including its ban on magazines capable of holding more than ten rounds of ammunition, became defunct (expired) in September 2004 per a sunset provision. Attempts to renew the ban have failed on the federal level.\n\nAs of March 2014, Washington, D.C. and nine U.S. states have high-capacity magazine restrictions or bans.\nIn Virginia, high-capacity magazines, which are defined as being over 20 rounds for a semi-automatic, centerfire rifle or pistol, and 7 shells for a shotgun, are not in and of themselves banned, but using one in combination with a firearm changes its status to an \"assault firearm\" which is prohibited for foreign nationals without permanent resident to possess, as well as requiring a license to carry in certain counties and cities.\n\nU.S. cities with high-capacity magazine restrictions or bans include: \n\nIn 2013, a federal judge in New York struck down the state's prohibition against gun owners loading more than seven rounds into a magazine, calling the limit “an arbitrary restriction” that violated the Second Amendment, but upheld the state's ban on magazines that hold more than 10 rounds. In 2015, the Second Circuit upheld this decision on appeal.\n\nIn December 2013, the National Rifle Association (NRA), representing five residents of Sunnyvale, California, filed a lawsuit to stop enforcement of the city's ban on possession of magazines able to hold more than 10 rounds, in a case known as \"Fyock v. Sunnyvale\". In March 2014, Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy rejected a request to block enforcement of the law pending appeals. In March 2015 the federal 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the magazine capacity restriction, ruling that it does not violate the Second Amendment.\n\nEugene Volokh, constitutional scholar, says that a Federal District Court judge was correct to decide that a local high-capacity magazine ban was constitutional, comparing limits on magazine capacity to limits on free speech.\n\nMost Americans support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines. In 2012 62% of Americans favored banning the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines, according to a Gallup poll with a margin of error of +/- 4%. In 2017 65% of American adults supported banning high-capacity magazines, according to a Pew Research Center survey with an error attributable to sampling of +/- 2.8% at the 95% level of confidence. In late February early March 2018, after the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, 63% of American adults supported a ban on the sale and possession of high-capacity or extended ammunition magazines, according to a CNN poll with a margin of error of +/- 3.7%. 73% of American adults supported banning high-capacity ammunition magazines that hold more than 10 rounds, according to an NPR/Ipsos poll with a margin of error of +/- 3.5%. 70% of registered voters supported banning high-capacity magazines, according to a \"Politico\"/Morning Consult poll with a margin of error +/- 2%.\n\nForty-one states presently in the United States allow citizens to keep and purchase magazines over ten rounds for privately owned firearms. Tens of millions of these magazines presently are in privately owned United States citizen hands.\n\nMany critics of laws restricting firearm magazine capacity or mandating registration will only affect law-abiding persons, not criminals bent on committing acts of violence and murder.\n\nSuch laws requiring registration or bans of magazines would be nearly impossible to enforce as there are likely over 50 million firearm magazines privately owned in the United States that hold eleven or more rounds of ammunition.\n\nSome jurisdictions apply magazine limits to hunters. For example, Maine and Oregon have a 5-cartridge limit on auto-loading firearms for hunting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220065", "title": "Index of international public law articles", "text": "Index of international public law articles\n\nList of international public law topics:\n\nThis is a comprehensive list of pages dealing with public international law, i.e. those areas of law dealing with the United Nations System and the Law of Nations. It is being started as a sublist as it is a specialized area of law that often does not interact with general legal topics. There is also a separate List of treaties.\n\n"}
{"id": "7756982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7756982", "title": "Infiltration (HVAC)", "text": "Infiltration (HVAC)\n\nInfiltration is the unintentional or accidental introduction of outside air into a building, typically through cracks in the building envelope and through use of doors for passage. Infiltration is sometimes called air leakage. The leakage of room air out of a building, intentionally or not, is called exfiltration. Infiltration is caused by wind, negative pressurization of the building, and by air buoyancy forces known commonly as the stack effect.\n\nThe infiltration rate is the volumetric flow rate of outside air into a building, typically in cubic feet per minute (CFM) or liters per second (LPS). The air exchange rate, (\"I\"), is the number of interior volume air changes that occur per hour, and has units of 1/h. The air exchange rate is also known as air changes per hour (\"ACH\").\n\nACH is the hourly ventilation rate, divided by the building volume. It can be calculated by multiplying the building's CFM by 60, and then dividing by the building volume. (CFM x 60)/volume\n\nInfiltration in finished structures can often be measured directly by using tracer-gas leak testing.\n\nIn many smaller buildings, 'forced' or 'mechanical' ventilation is not used to introduce ventilation air. Instead, natural ventilation, via openable windows and other openings, exhaust fans, and infiltration are used to provide ventilation air. Typically, at least one-third air change per hour is considered the minimum. ASHRAE Standard 62.2 was adopted in 2004; it clarifies the ventilation air requirements for low-rise residences. The Standard specifies that forced ventilation is required in houses with infiltration less than 0.35 ACH. This is typically accomplished with heat recovery ventilation or exhaust fans running constantly or periodically.\n\nBecause infiltration is uncontrolled, and admits unconditioned air, it is generally considered undesirable except for ventilation air purposes. Typically, infiltration is minimized to reduce dust, to increase thermal comfort, and to decrease energy consumption. For all buildings, infiltration can be reduced via sealing cracks in a building's envelope, and for new construction or major renovations, by installing continuous air retarders. In buildings where forced ventilation is provided, their HVAC designers typically choose to slightly pressurize the buildings by admitting more outside air than exhausting so that infiltration is dramatically reduced.\n\nIn typical modern U.S. residences, about one-third of the HVAC energy consumption is due to infiltration. Another third is to ground-contact, and the remainder is to heat losses and gains through windows, walls, and other thermal \"loads\". As such, reducing infiltration can yield significant energy savings, with rapid payback. In cold climates, with a 15 MPH wind, residences often have air exchange rates of 1.0 to 1.5 ACHs, far in excess of the ventilation air needs and are thus called \"loose construction\". It is very easy to reduce infiltration rates to less than 1.0 ACH. Smoke candles and blower-door tests can help identify less-than-obvious leaks. The Weatherization article describes methods for energy savings further. If infiltration is reduced below 0.35 ACH, it is recommended that mechanical ventilation (typically an exhaust fan or heat recovery ventilation) be implemented.\n"}
{"id": "1327230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327230", "title": "Interim trustee", "text": "Interim trustee\n\nInterim trustee is a term of art in section 701 of the Bankruptcy Code, Title 11 of the United States Code. \n\nWhen a case under Chapter 7 of the Code is commenced, the United States Trustee immediately appoints an interim trustee for that case. The most important immediate duty of the interim trustee is to conduct the first meeting of creditors (sometimes called the \"341 meeting\"), at which the bankrupt person is required to appear and respond to questions under oath concerning the person's assets and debts (see generally ).\n\nIf the creditors do not elect some other person qualified to serve as trustee for the case, then the interim trustee becomes the \"permanent\" trustee. He or she serves as trustee for the duration of the case, but is subject to removal for good cause. In the overwhelming majority of bankruptcy cases, the interim trustee is not replaced, and serves for the entire case.\n\nChapter 7 trustees are selected by the U.S. Trustee from a \"panel\" of individuals residing or having offices in the judicial district where the bankruptcy case is filed. Federal law prohibits the U.S. Trustee from requiring the trustee to be licensed as an attorney. Because trustees must be knowledgeable about bankruptcy law and procedure in order to administer their cases, most panel trustees are, however, attorneys who handle their court responsibilities as a complement to their law practices. \n\nThe only other legal pre-requisite for the qualification of the interim trustee is the giving of a surety bond to secure compliance with the trustee's responsibilities in the case. Generally, panel trustees will file a \"blanket bond\" with the U.S. Trustee's office which covers all cases in which a particular trustee is serving.\n\n"}
{"id": "40460421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40460421", "title": "International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency", "text": "International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency\n\nThe International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency () is a 1929 League of Nations treaty whereby states agree to criminalise acts of currency counterfeiting. It remains the principal international agreement on currency counterfeiting.\n\nStates that ratify the Convention agree to criminalise the creation, use, and exportation or importation of counterfeit currency. Under the agreement, no distinction is to be made as to what currency is the subject of the crime. Under the treaty, currency counterfeiting is an extraditable offence. States also agree to establish a central office that will forward to all other state parties cancelled specimens of their state's currency and notify the other states when changes to their currency are implemented.\n\nThe Convention was concluded in Geneva on 20 April 1929 and entered into force on 22 February 1931. As of March 2016, it has 83 state parties and remains the primary international agreement on currency counterfeiting. It was most recently ratified by Serbia in March 2016. China, India, Japan, and the United States are among the states that have signed the treaty but have not ratified it.\n\n"}
{"id": "53492747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53492747", "title": "John Butrovich", "text": "John Butrovich\n\nJohn Butrovich Jr. (March 22, 1910 — June 3, 1997) was an American businessman and politician.\n\nBorn in a mining camp near Fairbanks, Alaska to a Montenegrin American family, Butrovich graduated from Fairbanks High School in 1929. He then went to Washington State University. He returned to Fairbanks and was in the insurance business. From 1944 to 1958, Butrovich served in the Alaska Territorial Senate and was a Republican. In 1958, Butrovich ran in the election for Governor of Alaska and lost the election. From 1963 to 1979, Butrovich served in the Alaska State Senate. Butrovich died at his home in Fairbanks, Alaska from a long illness.\n"}
{"id": "10586126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10586126", "title": "Jus inter gentes", "text": "Jus inter gentes\n\nJus inter gentes, is the body of treaties, U.N. conventions, and other international agreements. Originally a Roman law concept, it later became a major part of public international law. The other major part is \"jus gentium\", the Law of Nations (municipal law). \"Jus inter gentes\", literally, means \"law between the peoples\".\n\nThis is \"not\" the same as \"jus gentium\", argues Francisco Martin and his co-authors in \"International Human Rights and Humanitarian Law\" (2006), because \"jus inter gentes\" includes internationally recognized human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "700750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700750", "title": "Law dictionary", "text": "Law dictionary\n\nA law dictionary is a dictionary that is designed and compiled to give information about terms used in the field of law. \n\nDistinctions are made among various types of law dictionaries.\n\nDifferentiating factors include: \n\nA good bilingual law dictionary needs to take the users' expected language and professional competences into account. The lexicographers therefore must consider the following aspects: dictionary user research, dictionary typology, structure, and presentation of the relevant information. When making a law dictionary, the lexicographers attempt to present the information in such a way that the user is not burdened with excessive lexicographic information costs.\n\nAs pointed out in Nielsen 1994, law dictionaries can serve various functions. The traditional law dictionary with definitions of legal terms serves to help users understand the legal texts they read (a communicative function) or to acquire knowledge about \"legal matters independent of any te\"xt (a cognitive function) – such law dictionaries are usually monolingual. Bilingual law dictionaries may also serve a variety of functions. First, they may have entry words in one language and definitions in another language – these dictionaries give help to understand legal texts, usually written in a foreign language, and to acquire knowledge, usually about a foreign legal system. Second, bilingual law dictionaries with entry words in one language and equivalents in another language provide help to translate legal texts, into or from a foreign language, and sometimes also to produce legal texts, usually in a foreign language.\n\nWith the advance of technology, the legal dictionary has made its way onto the Internet and smartphones. Law students and litigants can now look up the meaning of legal terms in a split second.\n\nUnlike a law dictionary, which arranges and defines legal words and phrases individually and in alphabetical order, a legal terminology textbook arranges and defines legal words and phrases in groups and by topic. As a result, a student or other person interested in understanding an array of related legal words and phrases may prefer to use a legal terminology textbook instead\n\n"}
{"id": "11702850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11702850", "title": "List of faculties of law in France", "text": "List of faculties of law in France\n\nThis is a list of faculties of law in France.\n\nUFR = Education and Research Unit (unité de formation et de recherche)\nU.E.R. = Teaching and Research Unit (Unité d'enseignement et de recherche)\n"}
{"id": "1442200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442200", "title": "Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency", "text": "Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency\n\nThe Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is an executive agency of the Department of Health and Social Care in the United Kingdom which is responsible for ensuring that medicines and medical devices work and are acceptably safe.\n\nMHRA was formed in 2003 with the merger of the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) and the Medical Devices Agency (MDA). In April 2013, it merged with the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and was rebranded, with MHRA identity being used solely for the regulatory centre within the group. The Agency employs more than 1,300 people.\n\nMHRA is divided into three main centres:\n\nIn 1999, the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) took over control of the General Practice Research Database (GPRD) from Office for National Statistics. Medicines Control Agency (MCA) and the Medical Devices Agency (MDA) merged in 2003 to form MHRA. In April 2012, the GPRD was expanded and relaunched as the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). In April 2013, MHRA merged with the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and was rebranded, with MHRA identity being used for the parent organisation and one of the centres within the group. At the same time CPRD was formally declared a separate centre of MHRA, too.\n\n\nMHRA hosts and supports a number of expert advisory bodies, including the Commission on Human Medicine which replaced the Committee on the Safety of Medicines in 2005, and the British Pharmacopoeia Commission.\n\nAs part of the European system of approval, MHRA or other national bodies can be the rapporteur or co-rapporteur for any given pharmaceutical application, taking on the bulk of the verification work on behalf of all members, while the documents are still sent to other members as and where requested.\n\nMHRA is funded by the Department of Health and Social Care for the regulation of medical devices, whilst the costs of medicines regulation is met through fees from the pharmaceutical industry. This has led to suggestions by some MPs that MHRA is too reliant on industry, and so not fully independent.\n\nMHRA has been criticised by the House of Commons Health Committee for, among other things, lacking transparency, and for inadequately checking drug licensing data.\n\nMHRA (and US Food and Drug Administration) have been criticised in the book \"Bad Pharma\", and by David Healy in evidence to the House of Commons Health Committee, for having undergone regulatory capture; advancing the interests of the drug companies rather than the interests of the public.\n\nDonald Light at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study summarised as such:\n\n...the industry has shaped the rules of the regulators, funded their operations, and lobbied them constantly in a classic pattern of regulatory capture...\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37718583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37718583", "title": "Move Your Domain Day", "text": "Move Your Domain Day\n\nMove Your Domain Day is a domain name transferring initiative, initially in response to GoDaddy's support of the United States Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). It was first held on 29 December 2011, originating from a post on Reddit and spearheaded by domain registrar Namecheap. In 2012, Namecheap began an initiative to make Move Your Domain Day an annual event. The second event was held on 22 January 2013. The third time was held on 5 February 2014. The fourth was held on 27 January 2015. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, Reddit, and domain registrars Name.com and Hover have also participated. Namecheap has defined the initiative as \"an annual protest and a commemoration of sorts that will continue to shine a light on the issue of a free and open internet.\"\n\nThe movement likely originated from a post made on Reddit on 22 December 2011, when a user stated that he would be moving 51 domains away from GoDaddy, and recommended others to do the same. The thread received significant attention from the Reddit community, gaining over 37,000 up votes from users (but also over 32,000 down votes) in favor of the initiative and many comments criticizing GoDaddy's support of the measure. Notable examples of the backlash against GoDaddy include Ben Huh, CEO of the Cheezburger Network, who threatened to transfer over one thousand domains away from GoDaddy, and Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit company behind many websites including Wikipedia, which decided to move all its domains away from GoDaddy. In response to the backlash, numerous domain registrars offered coupons for discounted domain transfers, while also offering to donate a portion of profits to the EFF. GoDaddy itself changed its stance on SOPA in the days prior to 29 December in an attempt to minimize damage.\n\nReports up to 29 December described GoDaddy as \"hemorrhaging\" customers. On 25 December 2011 (Christmas Day), GoDaddy lost a net 16,191 domains, mostly as a result of the boycott. However, on 29 December itself, GoDaddy gained a net of 20,748 domains, twice as many as it lost that day, attributed by Techdirt to a number of causes, in particular customers having moved early, and an appeased customer response to their change of position over SOPA.\n\nIn 2012, Namecheap relaunched the initiative and set the date for the second Move Your Domain Day as 22 January 2013. On that day, Namecheap has announced that domain transfers will be greatly discounted, and between $0.50 and $1.50 per domain transferred will be donated to the Electronic Frontier Foundation (depending on the total number of transfers). In response to this announcement, Shari Steele, the Executive Director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, stated that \"EFF is pleased to join Namecheap in celebrating digital rights within the greater the Internet community. The funds donated from the moveyourdomainday effort will ensure EFF can continue to fight for free expression for Internet users worldwide.\"\n\nOn 5 February 2014, each .com, .net, .org, .info and .biz domains is $3.98, up to 50 domain transfer per account, only domain that's not have been transferred out from Namecheap can qualify. Donation were also given to EFF.\n\n"}
{"id": "140612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140612", "title": "Mudbrick", "text": "Mudbrick\n\nA mudbrick or mud-brick is a brick, made of a mixture of loam, mud, sand and water mixed with a binding material such as rice husks or straw.\n\nIn warm regions with very little timber available to fuel a kiln, bricks were generally sun dried. In some cases brickmakers extended the life of mud bricks by putting fired bricks on top or covering them with stucco.\n\nThe South Asian inhabitants of Mehrgarh constructed, and lived in, mud brick houses between 7000–3300 BC. Mud bricks used at more than 15 reported sites in 3rd millennium BC are attributed as major cultural trait in the ancient Indus valley civilization. In the Mature Harappan phase fired mudbricks were used. \n\nMudbricks were adopted in the Middle East from Indus Valley Cities during the Pre-Pottery Neolithic B period. The Mesopotamians used sun-dried bricks in their city construction; typically these bricks were flat on the bottom and curved on the top, called plano-convex mudbricks. Some bricks were formed in a square mould and rounded so that the middle was thicker than the ends. \nIn Ancient Egypt, workers gathered mud from the Nile river, and then dug a pit and poured the mud into the pit. Workers then tramped on the mud while straw was added to solidify the mold. \n\nIn Minoan Crete at the Knossos site there is archaeological evidence that sun-dried bricks were used in the Neolithic period (e.g. prior to 3400 BC).\n\nMudbricks were used to some extent in pre-Roman Egypt, and mudbrick use increased at the time of Roman influence.\n\nIn areas of Spanish influence, mud-brick construction is called adobe, and developed over time into a complete system of wall protection, flat roofing and finishes which in modern English usage is often referred to as \"adobe style\", regardless of the construction method.\n\nThe Great Mosque of Djenné, in central Mali, is the world's largest mudbrick structure. It, like much Sahelian architecture, is built with a mudbrick called Banco, a recipe of mud and grain husks, fermented, and either formed into bricks or applied on surfaces as a plaster like paste in broad strokes. This plaster must be reapplied annually.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248253", "title": "Negligence in employment", "text": "Negligence in employment\n\nNegligence in employment encompasses several causes of action in tort law that arise where an employer is held liable for the tortious acts of an employee because that employer was negligent in providing the employee with the ability to engage in a particular act. Four basic causes of action may arise from such a scenario: negligent hiring, negligent retention, negligent supervision and negligent training. While negligence in employment may overlap with negligent entrustment and vicarious liability, the concepts are distinct grounds of liability.\n\nAs with all negligence claims, the claimant must prove four elements:\n\nIn order for such a duty to exist, the injury to the claimant must be \"reasonably foreseeable\", meaning, for example, that the type of employment must be one in which an unfit employee could cause harm of the type which occurred, and the claimant is the type of person to whom such harm would be a \"reasonably foreseeable consequence\".\n\nNegligent hiring may be found where the employee (the tortfeasor) had a reputation or record that showed his/her propensity to misuse the kind of authority given by the employer, and this record would have been easily discoverable by the employer, had the employer exercised 'due diligence'. For example, a victim of sexual harassment in the workplace may have a cause of action for negligent hiring on the part of her employer if she can show that the employer was aware of the harasser's termination from a previous position for the same behaviour.\n\nIn the sexual harassment example described above, the employer may be held liable for negligent hiring if the harasser had a previous history of harassment. This is because an employer has an obligation to its employees and others who will come in contact with them to provide a safe and productive working environment.\n\nOne preventive measure for negligent hiring is to perform a reasonable investigation on potential employees. This may include conducting interviews, verifying work and educational histories, checking references and conducting a background check on all applicants who have accepted an offer of conditional hire, and if an adverse assessment is found, to deny employment to such an applicant.\n\nNote that simply conducting a criminal background check on an applicant may not be a sufficient investigation. In Minnesota, for example, such a check was determined to be insufficient by the court in \"Ponticas v. K.M.S. Investments,\" 331 N.W.2d 907 (Minn. 1983). This will not guarantee the employer will not be held liable, but it will show that the employer used a diligent search to screen potential harassers from the workplace, and will assist the employer in demonstrating that it took reasonable care in hiring.\nIt is important to also note that, in the United States, background checks for job applicants are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (2003). If an adverse assessment is found in an employment screen, the applicant has the right to dispute the report.\n\nNegligent retention occurs where a party failed to remove an employee from a position of authority or responsibility after it became apparent that the employee was in fact misusing that authority or responsibility in a way that posed a danger to others.\n\nNegligent supervision is closely related, as it occurs where a party fails to reasonably monitor or control the actions of an employee. A variation of negligent retention or supervision is negligent training, which arises where the employer's training of the employee fails to prevent the employee from engaging in the acts that injure the claimant, or fails to remediate a pattern of behaviour which leads to an injury. Suits for negligent retention often plead negligent supervision or training as an alternate theory, as the employer who knows of an employee's improper conduct should either terminate that employee, or take steps to penalise that conduct and/or train the employee not to engage in that conduct.\n\nNegligent entrustment arises where the entrustor is held liable for negligence because they negligently provided the entrustee with a dangerous instrument, and the entrusted party caused injury to a third party with that instrument. \nWhere such a claim is brought against an employer, the employer will be held liable if the entrustee's record was known, or would have been easily discoverable, to the employer. For example, if a bus company hires a driver who has a record of reckless driving, of which the company could have learned through a search of publicly available records, the company would be liable for the negligent entrustment of the bus to that driver, should the driver cause an accident.\n\nNegligent entrustment differs from negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and training in two key respects. \n\nVicarious liability is a separate theory of liability, which provides that an employer is liable for the torts of an employee under an agency theory, even if the employer did nothing wrong. The principle is that the acts of an agent of the company are assumed, by law, to be the acts of the company itself, provided the tortfeasor was acting within the course of his employment.\n\nBy contrast, each of the above negligence theories requires proof of actual negligence on part of the employer \"before\" the injury occurred, for example when the employee was first hired.\n"}
{"id": "21676245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21676245", "title": "Pakistani nationality law", "text": "Pakistani nationality law\n\nThe Pakistani nationality law governs citizenship of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The principal legislation determining nationality, the Pakistan Citizenship Act, was passed by the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan on 13 April 1951. Since Cambodia changed its laws, Pakistan is the only country in Asia with unconditional \"jus soli\" citizenship rights.\n\nBefore the creation of Pakistan, its territories were part of the British Indian Empire (which included modern-day India, Bangladesh and itself) and its people were British subjects. Pakistan was founded on 14 August 1947 as a state for Muslims and held the status of a Dominion in the British Commonwealth; it included modern-day Bangladesh, which was known as East Bengal and East Pakistan and became independent from Pakistan in 1971. Upon independence from British colonial rule, several millions of Muslims emigrated to Pakistan from India, and several millions of Hindus and Sikhs who had been residing in what became Pakistan emigrated to India, raising a number of citizenship issues.\n\nThe Pakistan Citizenship Act of 1951 was enacted on 13 April 1951; stating the purpose of it is \"to make provision for citizenship of Pakistan\". The Act has been amended several times, the last occurring in 2000. The Act is divided into 23 sections, each one outlining a different provision of citizenship, of which the most significant are:\n\nSince independence, the growth of expatriate Pakistani communities in the Middle East, Europe and North America has led to several changes in Pakistani nationality law. Dual citizenship is allowed in certain specified circumstances:\n\nPakistanis with dual citizenship are forbidden to run for public office, sit in the assemblies, contest elections or join the Pakistani military. On 20 September 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan disqualified eleven lawmakers including Interior Minister Rehman Malik for failing to disclose their dual nationalities upon taking office. The proposed 21st Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan would have allowed dual citizens to hold public office and contest elections, but the amendment never passed. On 16 December 2013, the Senate of Pakistan unanimously passed \"The Civil Servants (Amendment) Bill, 2013\", aimed at barring the civil servants of BPS-20 and above to have dual nationality. The bill will then be debated in the National Assembly of Pakistan. If it is passed there, it would then be implemented as an Act after the President of Pakistan signs it.\n\nBoth Pakistan and India law claim to the disputed region of Kashmir, which has been the subject of numerous wars between the two countries. The Pakistani Citizenship Act of 1951 allowed persons who were subjects of the state of Jammu and Kashmir to travel under a Pakistani passport and be considered a citizen of Pakistan without prejudice.\n\nThe independence of Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971 led to the abandonment in the Bengali-majority state of around half a million \"stranded Pakistanis\", who traced their ethnolinguistic heritage to the Bihar region. Despite official promises, Bangladesh refuses to accept them or to recognise them as citizens. Conversely, a continuous migration of Bangladeshis between 1971 and 1995 led their population to cross the 1.6 million mark, which was only 10,000 at the time of separation. The migrants are mostly illegal and are not given the citizenship, as they migrated after the separation.\n\nFor political and other reasons, the 1.5 million registered Afghan refugees in Pakistan are not given Pakistani nationality, most of whom were born in Pakistan.\n\nIn 2016, Pakistani citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 29 countries and territories, ranking the Pakistani passport 103rd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "43989766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43989766", "title": "Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts", "text": "Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts\n\nPhillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts, 472 U.S. 797 (1985), was a conflict of laws case decided by the United States Supreme Court.\n\nPhillips Petroleum Company was sued in a class action lawsuit in Kansas for overdue interest payments. The lawsuit was joined by plaintiffs from all fifty U.S. states. The Kansas courts applied Kansas law to determine the legal liability of the defendant and remedies as to all plaintiffs, including the 97% who had no contacts with Kansas. Phillips appealed, arguing that the trial court had to look to the laws of different states for different plaintiffs. The Kansas Supreme Court upheld the decision, finding that it is permissible for the absent plaintiffs to have less contact with Kansas than the defendants, and that these plaintiffs have chosen Kansas law. The Kansas Supreme Court found that forum law controlled absent 'compelling reasons' for another law to control, comparing the suit to one against a 'common fund' in Kansas.\n\nPhillips also noted that many of the absent plaintiffs were absent because they were deemed to have 'consented' to be represented by the class representative by not returning a form to opt-out of the litigation. Phillips contended that failure of the absent plaintiffs to request exclusion can not equal consent, and therefore that the Kansas court has no jurisdiction over the claims of absent plaintiffs. Phillips asserted that adverse decisions of Kansas court may bind absent plaintiffs by \"res judicata\".\n\nThe Supreme Court addressed two questions. The first was whether the use of Kansas law for all plaintiffs violated Fourteenth Amendment Due Process, or the Full Faith and Credit clause. The second was whether it was sufficient to distribute a form and then deem the recipients to be a party to the litigation if they did not opt out of the litigation.\n\nThe Supreme Court held that the defendant's desire is irrelevant, otherwise forum shopping would rule. However, it also found that the state can not use assumption of jurisdiction as weight towards applying its own law. The use of Kansas law for all plaintiffs was held to be arbitrary and unfair; Kansas must consider the law of each state from which parties have come.\n\nAs for the opt-out issue, fewer burdens on plaintiffs means less Due Process required, so opt-out was permissible.\n\nCourt notes that individual stakes are too small for the case to be brought as anything but a class action – no one would go to the expense of suing for $100, so plaintiffs get no day in court other than this action. Opt-out is enough, so long as state provides a process where absent plaintiffs get notice and opportunity to be heard.\n\nAs for minimum contacts, class action plaintiffs need no contacts if they consent to jurisdiction.\n\nJustice Stevens wrote that Kansas actually did examine laws of other states and found no direct or substantive conflict; ergo, no problem with Kansas applying Kansas law.\n\n"}
{"id": "49625496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49625496", "title": "Raisina Dialogue", "text": "Raisina Dialogue\n\nThe Raisina Dialogue is a multilateral conference held annually in New Delhi. Since its inception in 2016, the conference has emerged as India’s flagship conference on geopolitics and geo-economics. The conference is hosted by the Observer Research Foundation, an independent think tank, in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs of India.\n\nThe conference is structured as a multi-stakeholder, cross-sectoral discussion, involving a variety of global policymakers including heads of state, cabinet ministers and local government officials. In addition, The Dialogue also welcomes major private sector executives, as well as members of the media and academia. It is designed on the lines of Singapore's Shangri-La Dialogue.\n\nThe name \"Raisina Dialogue\" comes from Raisina Hill, an elevation in New Delhi, seat of the Government of India, as well as the Presidential Palace of India, Rashtrapati Bhavan.\n\nThe first Raisina Dialogue was held from March 1–3, 2016. Over 100 speakers from over 35 countries attended to speak on the theme, “Asia: Regional and Global Connectivity”. The focus of the 2016 conference was on Asia’s physical, economic, human and digital connectivity. Panels and discussions explored opportunities and challenges for the region to manage its common spaces, as well as the global partnerships needed to develop common pathways in this century.\n\nFollowing the inaugural conference, the news media lauded the event as “packing a global punch in Delhi”. The conference report can be found online.\n\nIn 2017, The Dialogue was held from January 17–19. Held on a larger scale, the conference welcomed over 120 speakers from 65 countries and upwards of 800 participants. Attendees discussed the theme, “The New Normal: Multilateralism with Multipolarity”. \nThe Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, inaugurated the 2017 edition of the Raisina Dialogue. Other eminent speakers included the former President of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai; the former Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper; Nepal’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prakash Sharan Mahat; the U.K.’s Secretary of State for Foreign & Commonwealth Affairs, Boris Johnson; the Diplomatic Adviser to the President of France, ; the Commander of U.S. Naval Forces, Europe and Africa, Admiral Michelle Howard; the Commander of U.S. Pacific Command, Admiral Harry Harris, Jr.; and the Indian Chief of the Army Staff, General Bipin Rawat.The conference report can be found online.\n\nThe third edition of The Raisina Dialogue was held at the Taj Diplomatic Enclave in New Delhi, India from January 16–18, 2018.\n\nThe theme for the 2018 Conference is “Managing Disruptive Transitions: Ideas, Institutions and Idioms”. This theme is designed to explore the shifting dynamics within the global order; where old relationships need new directions, emerging partnerships face unprecedented constraints and the notions of power and sovereignty are challenged. The Dialogue will foster discussions on the role of institutions, the possibility of collective action and successful responses to these modern developments.\n\nRaisina Dialogue 2018 was attended by following scholars and officials:\nEach year, The Raisina Dialogue publishes a series of publications in order to ensure a continual dialogue of conference themes and highlights. Among these publications are The Raisina Files, which contain a set of commentaries authored by high-profile speakers and delegates.\n\nAdditionally, ORF publishes a Defence Primer and several policy reports to supplement the conversations held at each conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35158738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35158738", "title": "Right to sexuality", "text": "Right to sexuality\n\nThe right to sexuality incorporates the right to express one's sexuality and to be free from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. In specific, it relates to the human rights of people of diverse sexual orientation, including lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people, and the protection of those rights, although it is equally applicable to heterosexuality. The right to sexuality and freedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is based on the universality of human rights and the inalienable nature of rights belonging to every person by virtue of being human.\n\nNo right to sexuality exists explicitly in international human rights law; rather, it is found in a number of international human rights instruments including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe concept of the right to sexuality is difficult to define, as it comprises various rights from within the framework of international human rights law.\n\nSexual orientation is defined in the Preamble to the Yogyakarta Principles as \"each person’s capacity for profound emotional, affectional and sexual attraction to, and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a different gender or the same gender or more than one gender\".\n\nFreedom from discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).\n\nThe UDHR provides for non-discrimination in Article 2, which states that:\n\n\"Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.\"\nSexual orientation can be read into Article 2 as \"other status\" or alternatively as falling under \"sex\".\n\nIn the ICCPR, Article 2 sets out a similar provision for non-discrimination:\n\n\"Each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes to respect and to ensure to all individuals within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction the rights recognized in the present Covenant, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.\"\nIn Toonen v Australia the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHRC) found that the reference to \"sex\" in Article 2 of the ICCPR included sexual orientation, thereby making sexual orientation prohibited grounds of distinction in respect of the enjoyment of rights under the ICCPR.\n\nThe right to be free from discrimination is the basis of the right to sexuality, but it is closely related to the exercise and protection of other fundamental human rights.\n\nIndividuals of diverse sexual orientation have been discriminated against historically and continue to be a \"vulnerable\" group in society today. Forms of discrimination experienced by people of diverse sexual orientation include the denial of the right to life, the right to work and the right to privacy, non-recognition of personal and family relationships, interference with human dignity, interference with security of the person, violations of the right to be free from torture, discrimination in access to economic, social and cultural rights, including housing, health and education, and pressure to remain silent and invisible.\n\nSeventy-eight countries maintain laws that make same-sex consensual sex between adults a criminal offence, and seven countries (or parts thereof) impose the death penalty for same-sex consensual sex. They are Iran, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Mauritania, Sudan, the twelve northern states of Nigeria, and the southern parts of Somalia.\n\nThe right to sexuality has only relatively recently become the subject of international concern, with the regulation of sexuality traditionally falling within the jurisdiction of the nation state. Today numerous international non-governmental organisations and intergovernmental organisations are engaged in the protection of the rights of people of diverse sexual orientation as it is increasingly recognised that discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is widespread and an unacceptable violation of human rights.\n\nActs of violence against LGBT people are often especially vicious compared to other bias-motivated crimes and include killings, kidnappings, beatings, rape, and psychological violence, including threats, coercion and arbitrary depravations of liberty.\n\nExamples of violent acts against people of diverse sexual orientation are too numerous to account here, and they occur in all parts of the world. A particularly distressing example is the sexual assault and murder of fifteen lesbians in Thailand in March 2012. In that example, two lesbian couples were killed by men who objected to their relationship and who were embarrassed when they were unable to convince the women into heterosexual relationships with themselves.\n\nOften acts of violence against people of diverse sexual orientation are perpetrated by the victim's own family. In a case in Zimbabwe, the multiple rape of a lesbian was organised by her own family in an attempt to \"cure\" her of homosexuality.\n\nIn those cases, as in many other cases of violence against people of diverse sexual orientation, State law enforcement authorities are complicit in human rights abuses for failing to persecute violators of rights.\n\nThe right to privacy is a protected freedom under the UDHR, and the ICCPR which reflects the \"widespread, if not universal, human need to pursue certain activities within an intimate sphere, free of outside interference. The possibility to do so is fundamental to personhood.\" Intimate relationships, whether between two people of the same sex or of different sexes, are among those activities that are subject to a right of privacy.\n\nIt has been successfully argued in a number of cases that criminalization of homosexual relationships is an interference with the right to privacy, including decisions in the European Court of Human Rights and the UNHRC.\n\nThe freedom to decide on one's own consensual adult relationships, including the gender of that person, without the interference of the State is a fundamental human right. To prohibit the relationships of people of diverse sexual orientation is a breach of the right to sexuality and the right to privacy.\n\nEvery person, by virtue of their individual autonomy, is free to express themselves, assemble and join in association with others. Freedom of expression is a protected human right under Article 19 of the UDHR and Article 19 of the ICCPR, as is the right to freedom of assembly under Article 20 of the UDHR and Article 21 of the ICCPR.\n\nLGBT people are discriminated against in respect of their ability to defend and promote their rights. Gay pride marches, peaceful demonstrations and other events promoting LGBT rights are often banned by State governments.\n\nIn 2011 gay pride marches were banned in Serbia and another march in Moscow was broken up by police, who arrested thirty leading gay rights activists.\n\nIn 2005, twenty-nine experts undertook the drafting of the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. The document was intended to set out experiences of human rights violations against people of diverse sexual orientation and transgender people, the application of international human rights law to those experiences and the nature of obligations on States in respect of those experiences.\n\nThe Principles can be broadly categorised into the following:\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles is an instrument of soft law and is therefore not binding. But it does provide an important standard for States in their obligation to protect the rights of individuals of diverse sexual orientation.\n\nOn June 17, 2011 the United Nations Human Rights Council in a Resolution on Human Rights, Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, adopted by a vote of 23 in favour, 19 against, and 3 abstentions, requested the commission of a study to document discriminatory laws and acts of violence against people based on their sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe 2011 Resolution was intended to shed light on how international human rights could be used to prevent acts of violence and discrimination against people of diverse sexual orientation.\n\nOn 15 December 2011 the first Report on human rights of LGBT people was released by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.\n\nThe Report made the following recommendations. In order to prevent such acts of violence occurring, United Nations Member States are recommended to:\n\nFurther action is yet to be taken by the United Nations, although a proposed declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity was brought before the United Nations General Assembly in 2008. However, that declaration has not been officially adopted by the General Assembly and remains open for signatories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146577", "title": "Romer v. Evans", "text": "Romer v. Evans\n\nRomer v. Evans, 517 U.S. 620 (1996), is a landmark United States Supreme Court case dealing with sexual orientation and state laws. It was the first Supreme Court case to address gay rights since \"Bowers v. Hardwick\" (1986), when the Court had held that laws criminalizing sodomy were constitutional.\n\nThe Court ruled in a 6–3 decision that a state constitutional amendment in Colorado preventing protected status based upon homosexuality or bisexuality did not satisfy the Equal Protection Clause. The majority opinion in \"Romer\" stated that the amendment lacked \"a rational relationship to legitimate state interests\", and the dissent stated that the majority \"evidently agrees that 'rational basis'—the normal test for compliance with the Equal Protection Clause—is the governing standard\". The state constitutional amendment failed rational basis review.\n\nThe decision in \"Romer\" set the stage for \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003), where the Court overruled its decision in \"Bowers\"; for the Supreme Court ruling striking down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act in \"United States v. Windsor\" (2013); and for the Court's ruling striking down state bans on same-sex marriage in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" (2015). Justice Anthony Kennedy authored all four opinions, and was joined by Justices Ginsburg and Breyer in every one.\n\nIn 1992, Colorado voters approved by initiative an amendment to the Colorado state constitution (Amendment 2) that would have prevented any city, town, or county in the state from taking any legislative, executive, or judicial action to recognize homosexuals or bisexuals as a protected class. The amendment stated:\n\nNeither the State of Colorado, through any of its branches or departments, nor any of its agencies, political subdivisions, municipalities or school districts, shall enact, adopt or enforce any statute, regulation, ordinance or policy whereby homosexual, lesbian or bisexual orientation, conduct, practices or relationships shall constitute or otherwise be the basis of or entitle any person or class of persons to have or claim any minority status, quota preferences, protected status or claim of discrimination. This Section of the Constitution shall be in all respects self-executing.\n\nThat amendment was approved by a vote of 53% to 47%. According to public opinion surveys, Coloradans strongly opposed discrimination based upon sexual orientation, but at the same time they opposed affirmative action based upon sexual orientation, and the latter concern is what led to the adoption of Amendment 2. The governor of Colorado, Roy Romer, opposed the measure, but also opposed retaliatory boycotts against his state.\n\nRichard G. Evans, a gay man who worked for Denver mayor Wellington Webb, as well as other individuals and three Colorado municipalities, brought suit to enjoin the amendment. A former Colorado Supreme Court justice, Jean Dubofsky, was the lead attorney. A state trial court issued a permanent injunction against the amendment, and upon appeal, the Colorado Supreme Court ruled that the amendment was subject to \"strict scrutiny\" under the Equal Protection Clause of the federal Constitution. The state trial court, upon remand, concluded that the amendment could not pass strict scrutiny, which the Colorado Supreme Court agreed with upon review. Both times, the Colorado Supreme Court rendered 2–1 decisions.\n\nThe state supreme court held that Amendment 2 infringed on the fundamental right of gays to participate equally in the political process. Regarding the trial court's finding that homosexuals were not a suspect class, the Colorado Supreme Court said: \"This ruling has not been appealed and thus, we do not address it.\"\n\nThe majority of the Colorado Supreme Court acknowledged that Amendment 2 would not affect Colorado law that generally protects people from discrimination:\n\nColorado law currently proscribes discrimination against persons who are not suspect classes...Of course Amendment 2 is not intended to have any effect on this legislation, but seeks only to prevent the adoption of anti-discrimination laws intended to protect gays, lesbians, and bisexuals.\n\nThe dissenting justice on the Colorado Supreme Court argued that neither a suspect class nor a fundamental right was involved in the case, and thus he would have applied a rational basis test instead of strict scrutiny.\n\nThe case was argued on October 10, 1995. On May 20, 1996, the court ruled 6–3 that Colorado's Amendment 2 was unconstitutional, though on different reasoning from the Colorado courts. Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote the majority opinion, and was joined by John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, David Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Stephen Breyer. The Court majority held that the Colorado constitutional amendment targeting homosexuals based upon animosity lacked a rational relation to any legitimate governmental purpose.\n\nRegarding the state's argument that Amendment 2 blocked homosexuals merely from receiving \"special rights\", Kennedy wrote:\n\nAmendment 2's reach may not be limited to specific laws passed for the benefit of gays and lesbians. It is a fair, if not necessary, inference from the broad language of the amendment that it deprives gays and lesbians even of the protection of general laws and policies that prohibit arbitrary discrimination in governmental and private settings...The state court did not decide whether the amendment has this effect, however, and neither need we.\n\nWhile leaving that question unresolved by his opinion, Kennedy concluded that the amendment imposed a special disability upon homosexuals by forbidding them to seek safeguards \"without constraint\". Instead of applying \"strict scrutiny\" to Amendment 2 (as the Colorado Supreme Court had done), Kennedy wrote that it did not even meet the much lower requirement of having a rational relationship to a legitimate government purpose:\n\nIts sheer breadth is so discontinuous with the reasons offered for it that the amendment seems inexplicable by anything but animus toward the class that it affects; it lacks a rational relationship to legitimate state interests.\n\nAnd:\n\n[Amendment 2] is at once too narrow and too broad. It identifies persons by a single trait and then denies them protection across the board. The resulting disqualification of a class of persons from the right to seek specific protection from the law is unprecedented in our jurisprudence.\n\nKennedy did not go into depth in rejecting the claims put forward in support of the law (e.g. protecting the rights of landlords to evict gay tenants if they found homosexuality morally offensive), instead holding that the law was so unique as to \"confound this normal process of judicial review\" and \"defies...conventional inquiry.\" He elaborated: \"It is not within our constitutional tradition to enact laws of this sort.\"\n\nFinding that \"laws of the kind now before us raise the inevitable inference that the disadvantage imposed is born of animosity toward the class of persons affected,\" the Court inferred that the passage of Amendment 2 was born of a \"bare...desire to harm a politically unpopular group\". The Court added: \"[I]f the constitutional conception of 'equal protection of the laws' means anything, it must at the very least mean that a bare ... desire to harm a politically unpopular group cannot constitute a \"legitimate\" governmental interest.\"(emphasis added) The majority opinion in \"Romer\" neither mentioned nor overruled the Court's prior opinion in \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", which allowed outright bans on homosexual activity.\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia wrote the dissent, joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas. Scalia asserted that Amendment 2 did not deprive anyone of the \"protection [afforded by] general laws and policies that prohibit arbitrary discrimination in governmental and private settings\", which he said was confirmed by the Colorado Supreme Court and not disputed by Justice Kennedy's opinion. Scalia's dissent said Amendment 2 merely provided that homosexuals \"cannot as readily as others obtain preferential treatment under the laws\". His objections also included these:\n\n\nThe dissent concluded as follows:\nToday's opinion has no foundation in American constitutional law, and barely pretends to. The people of Colorado have adopted an entirely reasonable provision which does not even disfavor homosexuals in any substantive sense, but merely denies them preferential treatment. Amendment 2 is designed to prevent piecemeal deterioration of the sexual morality favored by a majority of Coloradans, and is not only an appropriate means to that legitimate end, but a means that Americans have employed before. Striking it down is an act, not of judicial judgment, but of political will.\n\nScalia took the rare step of omitting the word \"respectfully\" when he wrote \"I dissent\" at the end of his opinion.\n\nThe Court's opinion in \"Romer\" did not closely follow established equal protection doctrine (Amendment 2 \"defied...conventional inquiry\" wrote Justice Kennedy), and the opinion led to much discussion by scholars and lawyers. One particular scholarly article that received widespread attention was by Akhil Amar, a prominent law professor at Yale. Amar wrote:\n\nThe Constitution does not require that \"special\" antidiscrimination rights, once extended, irrevocably vest via some magic and antidemocratic one-way ratchet. And if Denver, Aspen, and Boulder can repeal these ordinances, presumably the Colorado legislature can repeal them by statute; and so too the people of Colorado can repeal them by state constitutional amendment (via initiative or referendum). To think otherwise is terminally silly.\nStill, Amar asserted that Amendment 2 violated the Equal Protection Clause (although he preferred an alternative argument based on the Attainder Clause). Regarding the Equal Protection Clause, Amar wrote:\n\nUnder Amendment 2, heterosexuals could win local ordinances and state laws protecting themselves from being discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation, but nonheteros could not win symmetric ordinances and laws.\nPutting aside the odds of discrimination against heterosexuals, Amar suggested that even if Amendment 2 had barred special protection for both heterosexuals and homosexuals, that still would have been unconstitutional because it would single out groups by name for harm, just like a law that says \"Akhil Reed Amar shall be ineligible for a private immigration bill or a suspension of deportation\".\n\nThe \"one-way ratchet\" mentioned by Amar has been discussed by other authors as well. For example, law professor John Calvin Jeffries has argued that the Court in \"Romer\" was actually relying upon a principle of non-retrogression, whereby \"The Constitution becomes a ratchet, allowing change in one direction only.\" Jeffries and his co-author, Daryl Levinson, conclude: \"the revival of non-retrogression as a constitutional principle is symptomatic of a Supreme Court adrift in an age of judicial activism.\"\n\nSupporters of the decision, such as law professor Louis Michael Seidman, celebrated its \"radical\" nature, and hailed it as a revival of the Warren Court's activism. According to law professor Evan Gerstmann, the Court in \"Romer\" left unmentioned and unconsidered many purposes of Amendment 2 that the Colorado courts had acknowledged as legitimate. The case, says Gerstmann, \"has left the law of equal protection even murkier than before.\"\n\nIn 1993, Cincinnati, Ohio, passed Ballot Issue 3, an amendment to the city charter, which forbade the city from adopting or enforcing civil rights ordinances based on sexual orientation, the only municipality in the United States to pass such a restriction. The wording of Cincinnati's amendment was almost identical to that of Colorado's. The amendment was upheld by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in 1996. Later, the case was remanded by the Supreme Court for further consideration in 1997 in the wake of the \"Romer\" decision. The Sixth Circuit upheld the amendment a second time, differentiating it from the state-level amendment on the grounds that it was a local government action of the type that Amendment 2 was designed to preempt. On October 13, 1998, the Supreme Court rejected an appeal, allowing the Sixth Circuit decision and the city amendment to stand. In 2004, Cincinnati voters overturned the amendment.\n\nSince \"Romer\" stood in obvious tension with the Court's earlier decision in \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", it laid the groundwork for 2003's \"Lawrence v. Texas\", which overturned \"Bowers\"; like the \"Romer\" case, Justices Kennedy and Scalia would author the majority and dissenting opinions in \"Lawrence\" with all nine justices voting almost the same way as in \"Romer\" (Justice O'Connor concurred, but with a different rationale). \"Romer\" has been narrowly cited but influential within its niche, being cited in the cases of \"Lawrence v. Texas\" and \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\", but the case has not had a much broader impact given the Court's assertion that it was conducting neither a \"normal process of judicial review\" nor a \"conventional inquiry.\" In the same niche, \"Romer\" was cited in the decision of Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court case \"Goodridge v. Department of Public Health\", wherein the Department's desire to deny marriage licences to same-sex couples was explicitly likened to Amendment 2's attempt to broadly restrict from seeking benefits a narrowly defined class of citizens.\n\nIn 2007, fifteen years after the referendum on Amendment 2, the Colorado legislature amended its anti-discrimination law by forbidding discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, in employment. In 2008, Colorado further expanded its LGBT protections to include housing, public accommodation, and advertising.\n\nFuture Chief Justice John Roberts donated time pro bono to prepare oral arguments for the plaintiffs. Speaking during his nomination process, a case leader, Walter A. Smith Jr., praised his work on the case, recalling, \"He said, 'Let's do it.' And it's illustrative of his open-mindedness, his fair-mindedness. He did a brilliant job.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1405166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1405166", "title": "Sarek National Park", "text": "Sarek National Park\n\nSarek National Park () is a national park in Jokkmokk Municipality, Lapland in northern Sweden. Established in 1909–1910, the park is one of the oldest national parks in Europe. It is adjacent to two other national parks, namely Stora Sjöfallet and Padjelanta. The shape of Sarek National Park is roughly circular with an average diameter of about .\n\nThe most noted features of the national park are six of Sweden's thirteen peaks over located within the park's boundaries. Among these is the second highest mountain in Sweden, Sarektjåkkå, whilst the massif Áhkká is located just outside the park. The park has about 200 peaks over , 82 of which have names. Sarek is also the name of a geographical area which the national park is part of. The Sarek mountain district includes a total of eight peaks over . Due to the long trek, the mountains in the district are seldom climbed. There are approximately 100 glaciers in Sarek National Park.\n\nSarek is a popular area for hikers and mountaineers. Beginners in these disciplines are advised to accompany a guide since there are no marked trails or accommodations and only two bridges aside from those in the vicinity of its borders. The area is among those that receives the heaviest rainfall in Sweden, making hiking dependent on weather conditions. It is also intersected by turbulent streams that are hazardous to cross without proper training.\n\nThe delta of the Rapa River is considered one of Europe's most noted views and the summit of mount Skierfe offers an overlook of that ice-covered, glacial, trough valley.\n\nThe Pårte Scientific Station in Sarek (also known as the \"Pårte observatory\") was built in the early 1900s by Swedish mineralogist and geographer Axel Hamberg. All the building material for the huts had to be carried to the site by porters.\n\nIn Sarek National Park, as in the most of Sápmi, a large number of the locations have names originating from the Sami languages. These languages have several variations and their written forms have changed over time, which explains why some placenames do not always correspond with each other in different sources.\n\nThe most common Sami names for locations or features in the park are \"tjåkkå\" or \"tjåkko\" (mountain), \"vagge\" (valley), \"jåkkå\" or \"jåkko\" (stream), \"lako\" (plateau) and \"ätno\" (river). An example of this is \"Rapaätno\", meaning Rapa River. These names are also the official Swedish names of the locations.\n\nSarek National Park is situated in the Jokkmokk Municipality, Norrbotten County, Sweden, north of the Arctic Circle, from the Norwegian border.\n\nThe area of the park is and it is adjacent to the national parks Padjelanta (in the west) and Stora Sjöfallet (in the north). The parks have a combined area of approximately . There are also a number of nature reserves nearby.\n\nSarek National Park is the most mountainous region in Sweden and it is the part of the country that mostly resembles an alpine countryside. Within the park are 19 summits higher than , the most noted being the second highest summit in Sweden after the Kebnekaise – the Sarektjåkkå with a height of . The lowest altitude in the park is found in the southwest, near Lake Rittakjaure, at .\n\nThe park is made up of three types of landscape, sometimes difficult to differentiate between: large valleys, massive mountains, and high plateaux. The largest valley of the park, which is also the most noted, is the Rapa Valley. This valley occupies of the park, including several branches, the most important of which are the Sarvesvagge, which climbs as far as Padjelanta, the Kuopervagge — with an area of nearly  — and the Ruotesvagge, surrounded by numerous glaciers, including those of Mount Sarektjåkkå. Among the other notable valleys, outside the Rapadalen network, are the Kukkesvagge that makes up the north-eastern border of the park, and the Njåtsosvagge near the southern border. The largest plateau is the Ivarlako, east of the Pårte massif, with an altitude starting at . West of Pårte, the Luottolako plateau covers an area of and has an even higher altitude at .\nInterspersed between the valleys and the plateaux, are massive mountains, often with several summits. The main ones are:\n\nThe park's main river is the Rapa River (\"Rapaätno\"). It originates from the glaciers of Sarektjåkkå and runs down the Rapa Valley as far as Lake Laitaure, and continues outside the park, where it joins with the Lesser Lule River which becomes a tributary of the Lule River at its confluence. This river is fed by thirty glaciers, contributing to a significant flow. The specific flow, the ratio between the average flow and the drainage basin, from these waters, is the most significant in Sweden. The flow fluctuates strongly with the seasons, having an average of 100 m⋅s in July and about 4 m⋅s in winter, resulting in an average annual flow of approximately 30 m⋅s. The river also transports a significant quantity of sediment. In summer, it can carry up to of sediment daily. In winter it only carries a few tons every day, resulting in an annual total of . The sediment gives the river a grey-green colour and forms large deltas. The main delta is formed at the confluence of the Rapaätno with its principal tributary, the river Sarvesjokk.\n\nJust before the confluence, the river braids for nearly , forming a zone called Rapaselet. The most noted of the deltas – and an emblem of the park – is the Laitaure delta (\"Laitauredeltat\"), which the river forms as it connects with Lake Laitaure. The other significant rivers correspond to the principal valleys listed above. Most of them make up the drainage basin of Lesser Lule River. The rivers in the north part of the park flow into Lake Akkajaure, in the Stora Sjöfallet National Park, forming part of the hydrographic network of Lule älv.\n\nThe park also contains several lakes. The largest are the Alkajaure (altitude ), on the border between the Sarek and the Padjelanta park, and the Pierikjaure (altitude ) near the Stora Sjöfallet National Park.\n\nThe Sarek National Park lies within the Scandinavian Mountains, a mountain chain whose origin is still a matter debate. The rocks of the Scandinavian Mountains were put in place by the Caledonian orogeny, forming a belt of deformed and displaced rocks now known as the Scandinavian Caledonides. Caledonian rocks overlie rocks of the much older Svecokarelian and Sveconorwegian provinces. The Caledonian rocks actually form large nappes () that have been thrusted over the older rocks. Much of the Caledonian rocks have been eroded since they were put in place meaning that they were once thicker and more contiguous. It is also implyed from the erosion that the nappes of Caledonian rock reached once further east than they do today. The erosion has left remaining massifs of Caledonian rocks and windows of Precambrian rock. The Caledonian orogeny resulted from the collision of the Laurentia and Baltica plates, 450 to 250 million years ago, with the disappearance of the Iapetus Ocean by subduction. This happened just before the formation of the chain and was caused by the appearance of a rift, which finally led to the creation of the Atlantic Ocean. The chain, once split open, continued to erode until it formed a peneplain.\n\nStarting about 60 million years ago, both the Scandinavian and the North-American sections suffered a tectonic uplift. It is unclear what causes this and several hypotheses have been presented. One of the theories is the influence of the Iceland hotspot which could have raised the crust. Another hypothesis is the isostasy related to glaciations caused the uplift. In any of those cases, the uplift allowed the ancient mountain chain to rise several thousand metres.\n\nThe area of the national park, and the eastern Sarek Mountains in particular, was the last of part of Fennoscandia to be deglaciated. The last remnants of the Fennoscandian Ice Sheet melted there slightly after 9,700 years BP.\n\nThe mountain chain was renewed and after that it was subjected to a new period of glacial erosion. In the beginning of the Quaternary period, 15 million years ago, a significant glacial advance occurred. The glaciers began to grow and move into the valleys where they gradually merged to form an ice sheet that covered the entire region. Several further glaciations followed, forming the current landscape, with glacial valleys, cirques, nunataks etc.\nThe degree to which the chain was affected by the erosion depended mainly on the structure of the terrain, which explains the diversity in the topography of the area. The topography of Sarek, similar to that of Kebnekaise, is divided into sharply defined zones, particularly in respect to the two neighbouring national parks. This is mainly due to the existence of diabase and diorite dikes which are more resistant to erosion. The park is intersected by a tangle of dikes created 608 million years ago, an era that probably corresponds with the first appearance of the rift during the formation of the Iapetus ocean. These dikes represent intrusions into the Sarektjåkkå nappe, which is composed of sediments probably deposited in the rift basin.\n\nThe park has over 100 glaciers, making it one of the most glacier-rich areas in Sweden. The glaciers are relatively small, the largest being Pårtejekna in Pårte at . However, some of the others are relatively large for Sweden, since the largest Swedish glacier, Stuorrajekna in Sulitelma (south of Padjelanta), measures .\n\nThe evolution of the glaciers, particularly that of the Mikka () have been studied since the end of the 19th century, especially by mineralogist and geographer Axel Hamberg. The other glaciers in the park have an evolution similar to that of the Mikka: in 1883 to 1895 they were mostly receding, then advanced a little in 1900 to 1916, after which they started to recede again. Later they stabilised or grew, which was interpreted as being caused by the increase in winter precipitation related to global warming. The effect of the raised summer temperatures has been taken into account when assessing the data. The receding of the glaciers has resumed at a particularly rapid pace during the first years of the 21st century.\n\nAccording to its WWF classification, Sarek National Park is situated in the Scandinavian Montane Birch forest and grasslands ecoregion, with a minor section in the Scandinavian and Russian taiga. With regards to the flora and fauna, Sarek does not have a wide variety of species. This is mainly explained by the fact that most of the park, except the south and south-east part, is above the growth-limit of conifers, which is at an altitude of about in this region. Adding to this, unlike most of the region, Sarek National Park has few vast lakes or swamps. A total of approximately 380 species of vascular plants have been found in the park, as well as 182 species of vertebrates, 24 mammals, 142 birds, 2 reptiles, 2 amphibians and 12 fish. Many of these species are on the Swedish red list of endangered species, notably the large carnivores.\n\nThe vegetation follows a fairly strict altitudinal zonation, as a result of the climate, and implying a similar zonation of fauna, although this is often less strict.\n\nThe montane zones are relatively rare in the park, as its upper limit is about below most altitudes in these northern latitudes. The flora of this zone is constituted by old-growth forests of conifers, with mainly Scots pines and including Norway spruces. The pines can become very tall, particularly those around Lake Rittak, in the south part of the park. The undergrowth is mostly covered with mosses and lichens, in particular reindeer lichen, and also with \"Vaccinium myrtillus\", \"Empetrum nigrum\" and cowberry.\n\nThe Sarek forests are a preferred habitat for numerous species of animals. Among the large carnivores, the brown bear is particularly frequent in the park and in the neighbouring Stora Sjöfallet. The bear fairly often also ventures into the subalpine region. The Eurasian lynx, classed as an endangered species in Sweden, is also found around the lakes of Rittak and Laitaure, and is also found in the subalpine forests of Rapa Valley. The red fox is relatively frequent, and is gradually extending its territory into the higher zones, where it competes with the arctic fox. Some small mammals that are frequent in the park are the European pine marten, the least weasel and the stoat. The ermine is also found in the higher regions. The herbivores include a very large number of moose as the forests and humid zones provide them with lots of food. They often grow to an impressive size in the park, with enormous antlers.\n\nThe birds in Sarek include a number of owls, such as the Ural owl, and woodpeckers, particularly the Eurasian three-toed woodpecker. The grey-headed chickadee is also very common, as are the fieldfare, the song thrush and the redwing. Reptiles and amphibians, such as the viviparous lizard, the common frog and the common European viper, are mostly found in the forests. The vipers of the Rittak region frequently reach remarkable sizes.\n\nThe subalpine zone mostly consists of old-growth birch forests. These forests are exceptional in terms of density and richness, making it possible for significant quantities of sediment material to be carried from the mountainside by the runoff and deposited in the watercourses. This kind of transfer is particularly noted in the Rapa Valley. In general, the transition between the conifer forests and the ones consisting of birch is more or less gradual, with the number of birches present in the coniferous forests increasing along with the altitude until the conifers have completely disappeared. The size of the trees also diminishes with increasing altitude. The upper altitude limit for the forests — which is also the tree line varies greatly throughout the park, from in the Tjoulta valley to over in the Rapa Valley.\n\nThe birch forests also contain other species of trees. The number of rowan, grey alder, trembling poplar and hackberry is relatively high. The alpine blue-sow-thistle is very widespread in this zone and is the food the bears prefer. Garden angelica also grows in the forests, reaching a height of . Many other plants in this zone can also attain exceptional size.\nThe division between the birch and coniferous forests is relatively blurred, with many of the animal species listed above also present in the subalpine zone. Some small mammals are found more frequently here than in the coniferous forests, particularly several rodents such as the common shrew and the field vole. This is also the reindeers' habitat. The Sami people living within the borders of the park, have domesticated the reindeer that stay in this zone during spring and move up to the alpine zone in summer. Brown bears are common in the valleys of Tjoulta and Rapadalen. However, it is the quantity and variety of birds is that enriches this zone. The willow warbler, the common redpoll, the brambling, the yellow wagtail, the northern wheatear and the bluethroat are characteristic of the birch forests. The willow ptarmigan is also more common in this area. The raptors present in the zone are the merlin and the rough-legged buzzard, which often nests on the cliffs. The gyrfalcon and the golden eagle usually prefer lower altitudes, but are nevertheless also found in the park.\n\nThe alpine zone is divided into several narrower zones. The first subzone is mostly characterized by heathland, with many alder shrubs, mosses and lichens, and frequently dense mats of crowberries. Different types of heaths can be distinguished. One type is mostly composed of a mix of alpine clubmoss and alpine bearberry. Cushion pink and Lapland lousewort bring autumn colour to the heaths, which are otherwise fairly monocrome. In the chalky soils of this subzone, the vegetation is very rich and forms prairies with mountain avens as the most characteristic species. purple saxifrage, velvetbells, alpine pussytoes and alpine veronica are also present. With increasing altitude, the dwarf willow and lichens become more prominent, forming a second zone. Gradually the plants become more scarce, and above there are only 18 types of plants present.\n\nThere are three rare mammals who live in this zone. The wolverine inhabits a vast territory, roaming as far as the coniferous forests in winter, but the alpine zone is their main territory. They mostly eat carrion, but they do also hunt living animals such as small rodents, birds and insects. The wolverine is labelled as an endangered species in Sweden with an estimate of 360 individuals in the country in 2000. The Arctic fox is a critically endangered species in Sweden, with only 50 individuals in the whole country. They dig extensive networks of tunnels in areas above the tree-line, with several families inhabiting the same sett. The park is one of the last sanctuaries for the gray wolf, a species also critically endangered in Sweden. In 1974–1975, the park was home to the only remaining wild wolf living in Sweden. Although the wolf population is now growing, they have not yet achieved a stable number in the park.\n\nIn addition to these three mammals, Norway lemmings are also found in the park. The number of lemmings varies extremely, with massive spikes in the population during some years, immediately followed by a very rapid decline. This phenomenon is not completely understood; it appears that favourable weather, and therefore a surplus of food, results in sudden population growths, but the reason for the decline is less obvious, although it is certain that contagious diseases play some role. These cycles are also reflected in the populations of animals who prey on the lemmings.\n\nMany birds living at this altitude are associated with the humid zones. However, the alpine zone has its own characteristic species, such as the rock ptarmigan, the snowy owl, the horned lark, the meadow pipit, the snow bunting and the Lapland longspur.\n\nAlthough the park does not have the vast marshes and lakes characteristic of the rest of the region, water is nevertheless present everywhere. The humid zones are rich with a great diversity of flora and fauna. The stratification of vegetation is just as valid in the humid zones. In the montane region, the humid soils are covered with flowers such as the northern Labrador tea, cottonsedge, the Goldilocks buttercup, St Olaf's candlestick, common selfheal and common marsh-bedstraw. In the subalpine zone, the humid prairies mainly have mats of Globe-flower, kingcup and twoflower violet. In the alpine region there are many subalpine plants as well as the \"Pedicularis sceptrum-carolinum\", and the vegetation decreases as the altitude increases.\n\nThe humid zones of the park are well known for their rich diversity of birds. The common crane, the wood sandpiper and the short-eared owl are found at the lower altitudes, while the Eurasian teal, the Eurasian wigeon, the greater scaup, the red-breasted merganser, the sedge warbler and the common reed bunting are common in the Laitaure delta and around Pårekjaure Lake.\n\nAt higher altitudes, Vardojaure Lake is rich with birds, mostly ducks and also the European golden plover, characteristic of the alpine zone and sometimes found in the humid zones. Låotakjaure Lake, on the border of Padjelanta, is interesting from an ornithological point of view. Other rare species are also present, such as the lesser white-fronted goose, the great snipe, the red-throated pipit, the long-tailed duck and the bar-tailed godwit. The Luottolako Plateau is also considered to be interesting, with the most significant concentration of purple sandpipers in Sweden.\n\nArctic chars, trouts and common minnows are found in the park's lakes, rivers and streams.\n\nSarek National Park is mainly a high-alpine area with almost no accommodation for tourists.\n\nThe Kungsleden hiking trail passes through the eastern part of the park, from Saltoluokta to Kvikkjokk. There are no cabins within the park, the Pårte, Aktse and Sitojaure cabins are just outside the park and they are accessible from both Saltoluokta and Kvikkjokk.\n\nThe Padjelanta Trail (\"Padjelantaleden\"), running from Kvikkjokk to Akkajaure, skirts the park along its western rim at Tarraluoppal, where the Tarraluoppal cabin is just on the border of the park.\n\nDue to the lack of shelters combined with rapidly shifting weather and rough terrain, it is recommended that hikers are well prepared and experienced before setting out on the trails of the park.\n\nThere are few bridges in the park, and crossing streams (Sami: \"jokk\") and rivers (Sami: \"ätno\") can be dangerous for ill-equipped or inexperienced hikers. Warm weather increases the melting of the glaciers causing water levels to rise, therefore wading is often easier and safer early in the morning.\n\nThe only ford across the Rapa River south of the Smaila Moot, is at Tielmaskaite. The ford is long and can only be used when waterlevels are low. Inexperienced hikers are recommended not to cross without a guide.\n\nThe glacier \"jokk\" from Pårtejekna, Kåtokjåhkå, has no fords. There is a bridge at the southernmost part of the stream (). Hikers can also follow the streams up to the glacier and cross there, although this requires knowledge about glacier crossing.\n\nThe lack of marked trails and accommodations makes it very difficult for visitors to hike in the park in winter, unless they are experienced and properly equipped. The steep slopes of the valleys also contributes to the risk for avalanches.\n\nAktse is an old farm settlement on the Kungsleden trail, approximately outside the boundaries of the park.\n\nIn 1788 a chapel was built at Alkavare () for the Sami that were herding reindeer in the area during summer. The walls of the building were dry set from local stone and the roof was made of timber, transported from Kvikkjokk, away. Originally, service was held every summer on June25. It took the minister from Kvikkjokk three days to reach the chapel, and three days to get back. It was abandoned in the mid-19th century and renovated in 1961, and is still in use. , it belongs to the Jokkmokk parish of the Church of Sweden, and church service is held throughout July.\n\nJust above the canyon, formed by Smailajåkk as it descends toward Rapaätno, there is a cabin for the National Park Service (). There is also a bridge over the Smailajåkk canyon which allows hikers to cross the stream safely. The bridge is removed every winter and put back in the spring, after the spring flood. The cabin is not open to hikers, but there is an emergency shelter as well as an emergency telephone and an outhouse there. The presence of the bridge and the fact that three of the major valleys in the park (\"Routesvagge\", Rapa Valley and \"Koupervagge\") converge there, has resulted in the name 'Smaila Moot' for the location which has become a meeting place for hikers in the park. It is also a preferred location to start a climb to the top of the Sarektjåkkå (), via the Mikkajekna glacier.\n\nPastavagge (in Lule Sami Orthography called \"Basstavágge\") is a narrow valley, forming a pass, running from Pielavalta (\"Bielavallda\") towards the east, ending north of Rinim on the shores of Lake Sitojaure (\"Sijddojávrre\"). The trekking distance from Pielvalta to Rinim is about . As there is a boat connection between Rinim and the Sitojaure cabins on the Kungsleden, Pastavagge is a preferred route to and from central Sarek. The difference in altitude between the eastern entrance of the valley and the highest level of the pass is about . Because of the steep climb, multiple fords and the high-alpine terrain, it usually takes at least a full day for hikers to traverse the pass.\n\nThe region's first inhabitants arrived with the retreat of the inland seas 8,000 years ago. They were nomads who lived in Northern Scandinavia, and probably ancestors of the Samis. Initially they were hunter-gatherers, living off reindeer. For those people, the mountains often had religious connotations, and several were \"Sieidi\" (places of worship). Offerings, such as antlers from reindeer, were often made in those places. One of the most significant \"Sieidi\" was situated at the foot of Mount Skierfe ( high), at the entrance to the Rapa Valley. Samis from the entire region gathered in this place for ceremonies. Mount Apär itself, was believed to be the home of demons and legend tells of an illegitimate child's ghost inside it.\n\nDespite their hunter-gatherer way of life, the Samis kept some domesticated reindeer. They were milked and used for transport as well as other things. Towards the end of the 17th century, the number of domesticated reindeer increased, and the Samis began to harmonize their travelling with the reindeer's search for pasture. Eventually, hunting the reindeer gave way to farming them. The Samis in the mountains gradually developed a system of transhumance (movement between fixed summer and winter pastures). They spent the winters on the park's plains and moved up into the mountains in summer, mainly to Padjelanta. Sarek was mostly used as a corridor for travels, although certain prairies (Skarja and Peilavalta in particular) were used for pasture. For shelter during their long journeys, which could last for several weeks, the inhabitants built huts (\"kåta\") at selected places in the park. Little by little, they left the reindeer to graze as they pleased, and stopped moving with the herds in the old way.\n\nWhen the Swedish government took control over the Sami territory, the Sami had to pay the same taxes as other Swedes. In the 17th century the Sami were evangelized by the Swedes, who often built churches and markets in locations where the Sami traditionally stayed during winter.\n\nThe Swedes considered the mountains to be frightening and dangerous so they did not explore them. When the first ore deposits were discovered in the region, the Swedes attempted to persuade the Sami to prospect for other ores in the mountains, in particular silver. But in general, the Sami did not dare to reveal such information to the Swedes because they did not want to incur the disapproval of their fellow Sami. An ore discovery was likely to result in the Sami being forced into near-slavery, working the mines and transporting the minerals. The Alkavare deposit was an exception. Its existence was revealed to the Swedes by an extremely poor Sami, who became held in disdain by his tribe due to this. The exploitation of the mine began in 1672, but it never rendered any profit and was abandoned in 1702. A few attempts to reopen the mine has been made, but they have not been successful. The ruins of two buildings and a little chapel are visible nearby the site.\n\nThe first Swede to scientifically explore the mountains was Carl von Linné in his expedition to Lapland in 1732. Later, in 1870, Gustaf Wilhelm Bucht mapped the region. Shortly after, in 1881, the Frenchman Charles Rabot became the first man to reach the summit of Sarektjåkkå. The 1890s marked the start of systematic scientific expeditions. Most noted is the work of Axel Hamberg, who had participated in an expedition to Greenland led by Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld. Hamberg began his study of the region in 1895. He studied the park, chiefly the glaciers, until his death in 1931. He created a high quality map and constructed five cabins in the park, known as the Pårte station, where he conducted his studies of Sarek. Axel Hamburg's work was particularly significant for widespread public recognition of the park.\n\nThe 1872 creation of the world's first national park in Yellowstone started a universal momentum for the protection of nature. In Sweden, the polar explorer Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld became the first to propose using the new concept to protect areas of the Swedish landscape. Axel Hamburg, Nordenskiöld and other scientists organized a plea for establishing Sweden's first national parks, Sarek in particular. They convinced the Swedish botanist and member of the Riksdag Karl Starbäck from Uppsala University to raise the question in the Riksdag. The proposition was accepted in May 1909, and the first nine national parks were established. These were also the first in Europe. Among them were Sarek and its neighbour the Stora Sjöfallet. The reason given for establishing the park was, as stated in official protocols, to \"preserve a high mountain landscape in its natural state\".\n\nIn the middle of the 20th century, with developments in hydroelectricity in Sweden, dams were frequently built across the northern rivers of Sweden. These barrages were also constructed in the national parks; the Stora Sjöfallet National Park lost nearly a third of its land area with the creation of a dam in 1919. In 1961, an accord called the \"Sarek peace\" (\"Freden i Sarek\") was forged, preventing hydroelectric developments in Sarek as well as in certain rivers, designated \"national rivers\". This also led to the establishing of Padjelanta National Park.\nIn 1982, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) mentioned a vast zone including Sarek National Park in its tentative list of natural sites to be classified as World Heritage Sites by UNESCO. Sweden proposed that part of this zone, the Sjaunja nature reserve, should be included in the list, and in 1990 the IUCN recommended an extension to the proposed area. In 1996, Sarek Park was classed as a World Heritage Site including the adjoining areas of Padjelanta, Stora Sjöfallet, Sjaunja and Stubba nature reserves, Muddus National Park and three adjacent areas, making a total of . The whole area was added to the World Heritage as a mixed site (\"of cultural and natural value\") called the Laponian area. The park also became part of the Natura 2000 network. Being on the World Heritage list allowed the park to have its first protection plan. The plan was written with thorough consultation of the Sami, who had not been consulted when the park was established. The WWF paid for this process.\n\nThe 2007 Environmental Protection Agency plan for the national parks includes a plan to expand Sarek to incorporate the area of the Laitaure Delta and the Tjuoltadalen Valley to the south part of the park. This extension had already been proposed in the 1989 plan, but the situation changed with the World Heritage designation as the proposed extension would make up a sizable part of the Laponian Region.\n\nSarek National Park is viewed by many Swedes as one of the most beautiful landscapes of their country. The enthusiasm for it was started by Axel Hamberg's book on the park, presenting Sarek as the joy of the Swedish Lapland.\n\nThe Swedish Tourist Association (STF) was created in 1885. In 1886, they mentioned Sarek as a potential tourist site for the first time. However, the number of tourists was not more than a few dozen. In 1900, the association studied the possibility of creating a long hiking trail crossing the Lapland mountains, between Abisko and Kvikkjokk. The initial proposal was for a marked trail that passed through the park, a boat crossing of the Rapaselet and a mountain hut beside the river. The project was abandoned and the STF concentrated mostly on Kebnekaise and Sylan. The trail (Kungsleden) was built, but only coming close to the park in the southeast corner of it.\n\nIn 1946, Dag Hammarskjöld popularised the expression \"vår sista stora vildmark\" (\"our last great wilderness\"). Dag Hammarskjöld advocated a growing tourism in the park, that took care not to damage the environment. Edvin Nilsson's 1970 book on the park strengthened its reputation, increasing the number of tourists from two or three hundred in the 1960s, to 2,000 in 1971. This sudden success caused several problems such as the temporary overcrowding on certain trails in the Rapa Valley, which were not designed to accommodate so many visitors.\n\nAs for the majority of the Swedish national parks, the management and administration of the park is divided between the Environmental Protection Agency of Sweden and the County administrative board. The Environmental Protection Agency is in charge of proposing new national parks in consultation with the county and municipality council. The establishing of each new park requires a decision from the Riksdag. After that, the land is bought by the government through the intermediary of the Environmental Protection Agency. The rest of the park's management is done by the county council. In Sarek's case, this is the Norrbotten County council.\n\nThe park rules are relatively strict, to preserve the park in its near-pristine condition. Fishing, hunting, picking flowers and any other activity that could damage the wildlife are all forbidden, except for picking berries and edible mushrooms. Similarly, no motorised vehicles are allowed in the park.\n\nThere are several exceptions in the laws about management and regulation of the national parks regarding the Sami. In 1977, the Sami people were recognised by Sweden as an indigenous people and a minority group, which implies that the people and their way of life are protected by law. This grants the Sami the right to farm reindeer in the park. The park is situated on territory belonging to the Sami communities of Sirkas, Jåhkågaskka and Tuorpons, the Sami who are members of these communities are also allowed to pasture their reindeer in the park. In carrying out these activities, the Sami have the right to use motorised vehicles such as snowmobiles or helicopters.\n\nThese rights are sometimes conflicting with the protection of wildlife. An example of this is when carnivores attack the Sami reindeer. Such an incident occurred in 2007, when an unregistered wolf, a protected and endangered species in Sweden, wandered into an area in Tjåmotis ( southeast of the Rapa Valley) where reindeer were grazing. The wolf was captured, radio-collared and DNA tested. It was kept under surveillance and attempts were made to scare it away, but after it had killed several reindeer and disrupted the herd, a decision was made to shoot it. The decision and the killing were made collectively by the Norrbotten County Administrative Board, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Sami in accordance with the national nuisance wildlife management act.\n\nThere is also an ongoing debate about the damages caused by snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles in the parks. The snowmobiles have become increasingly popular and numerous, while global warming has made the terrain more vulnerable to the vehicles. Joyrides by visitors outside the marked trails have become a problem, especially for the Sami, since they claim that the disruptions made by snowmobiles may cause the pregnant female reindeer to drop their calves prematurely.\n\nThe park was the main setting of the 2017 film The Ritual.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14905284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14905284", "title": "Scottish Episcopalians Act 1711", "text": "Scottish Episcopalians Act 1711\n\nThe Scottish Episcopalians Act 1711 (10 Ann c 10) is an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain. Its purpose was \"to prevent the disturbing those of the Episcopal Communion in Scotland in the Exercise of their Religious Worship and in the Use of the Liturgy of the Church of England and for repealing the Act passed in the Parliament of Scotland intituled Act against irregular Baptisms and Marriages\".\n\nThis Act was partly in force in Great Britain at the end of 2010.\n\nThis section was repealed by Part II of Schedule 1 to the Promissory Oaths Act 1871.\n\nThis section was repealed by Part V of Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1977.\n\nThis section was repealed by section 28(20 of, and Schedule 3 to, the Marriage (Scotland) Act 1977\n\nThis section was repealed by Part V of Schedule 1 to the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "58866535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58866535", "title": "Seneschal of Gascony", "text": "Seneschal of Gascony\n\nThe Seneschal of Gascony was an officer carrying out and managing the domestic affairs of the lord of the Duchy of Gascony. During the course of the twelfth century, the seneschalship, also became an office of military command. After 1360, the officer was the Seneschal of Aquitaine. There was an office above the seneschalcy, the Lieutenancy of the Duchy of Aquitaine, but it was filled only intermittently (in times of emergency).\n\nThe seneschal managed the household, coordinating between the receivers of various landholdings and the chamber, treasury, and the chancellory or chapel. The seneschals of Gascony, like those appointed in Normandy, Poitou, and Anjou had custody of demesne fortresses, the regional treasuries, and presidency of the highest court of regional custom. Detailed records of the Gascon Exchequers during the reign of Henry III of England indicate that there most likely was a functioning exchequer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6704388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6704388", "title": "Surface Transportation Assistance Act", "text": "Surface Transportation Assistance Act\n\nThe Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 was a comprehensive transportation funding and policy act of the United States Federal Government, . The legislation was championed by the Reagan administration to address concerns about the surface transportation infrastructure (highways and bridges). The Act contained Title V, known as the Highway Revenue Act of 1982, which added five cents to the per gallon gas tax (the first such increase since 1961), of which four cents was dedicated to restore interstate highways and bridges, and one cent for public transit. The Act also set a goal of 10 percent for participation of disadvantaged business enterprises in federal-aid projects.\n\nSection 165 (), called the \"Buy America\" provision or Buy America Act—not to be confused with the 1933-enacted Buy American Act—applies to mass-transit-related procurements. It established requirements intended to give preference to the use of domestically produced materials on any procurements funded at least in part by federal funds. Implementation of the requirements is regulated by the Federal Transit Administration.\n\nEffective in 1983, Section 405 () was enacted to encourage employee reporting of noncompliance with safety regulations governing commercial motor vehicles. Congress recognized that employees in the transportation industry are often best able to detect safety violations and yet, because they may be threatened with discharge for cooperating with enforcement agencies, they need express protection against retaliation for reporting these violations. See, e. g., 128 Cong. Rec. 32698 (1982) (remarks of Sen. Percy); id., at 32509–32510 (remarks of Sen. Danforth). Section 405 protects employee \"whistle-blowers\" by forbidding discharge, discipline, or other forms of discrimination by the employer in response to an employee's complaining about or refusing to operate motor vehicles that do not meet the applicable safety standards.\n\nCongress also recognized that the employee's protection against having to choose between operating an unsafe vehicle and losing his job would lack practical effectiveness if the [481 U.S. 252, 259] employee could not be reinstated pending complete review. The longer a discharged employee remains unemployed, the more devastating are the consequences to his personal financial condition and prospects for reemployment. Ensuring the eventual recovery of backpay may not alone provide sufficient protection to encourage reports of safety violations. Accordingly, 405 incorporates additional protections, authorizing temporary reinstatement based on a preliminary finding of reasonable cause to believe that the employee has suffered a retaliatory discharge. The statute reflects a careful balancing of the relative interests of the Government, employee, and employer. It evidences a legislative determination that the preliminary investigation and finding of reasonable cause by the Secretary, if followed \"expeditiously\" by a hearing on the record at the employer's request, provide effective protection to the employee and ensure fair consideration of the employer's interest in making unimpaired hiring decisions.\n\nTruck drivers who believe they have suffered retaliation for reporting violations, refusing to commit violations, or participating in proceedings, can seek relief from the U.S. Department of Labor. Under STAA, truck drivers who believe they have suffered an adverse employment action (such as discharge, demotion, discipline, or denial of advancement), have 180 days to file a simple written complaint with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The complaint can be postmarked or faxed to meet the deadline. If OSHA determines that a violation did occur, it can issue a preliminary order requiring reinstatement during further proceedings. Both sides will have an opportunity to present their evidence in a recorded hearing before an administrative law judge (ALJ). The ALJ's decision is reviewed by the Administrative Review Board, and parties can appeal to federal courts of appeals.\n\nIn 1987, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Brock v. Roadway Express, Inc.\", 481 U.S. 252, that due process requires that employers receive prereinstatement notice of the employee's allegations, notice of the substance of the relevant supporting evidence, an opportunity to submit a written response, and an opportunity to meet with the investigator and present statements from rebuttal witnesses. These procedures provide a reliable initial check against mistaken decisions\n\nSections 411 and 412 () first authorized the establishment a national network of highways designated for use by large trucks. On these highways, federal width and length limits apply. The National Network includes almost all of the Interstate Highway System and other, specified non-Interstate highways. Section 412 also specifically prohibits any state from denying reasonable access to the National Network. Provisions in the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 further defined the National Network.\n\nTrucks that are within the width and length limits specified in the Act are now referred to as \"STAA trucks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1293188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1293188", "title": "Telesync", "text": "Telesync\n\nA telesync (TS) is a bootleg recording of a film recorded in a movie theater, often (although not always) filmed using a professional camera on a tripod in the projection booth. The audio of a TS is captured with a direct connection to the sound source (often an FM microbroadcast provided for the hearing-impaired, or from a drive-in theater). Sometimes the bootlegger will tape or conceal wireless microphones close to the speakers for better sound quality. A TS can be considered a higher quality type of cam, that has the potential of better-quality audio and video.\n\nThe true definition of telesync would include the film being synchronized to the camera's own frame rate and shutter timing as done by television companies when preparing celluloid film for broadcast. A bootleg TS rarely, if ever, uses this form of synchronisation which can lead to additional temporal aliasing.\n\nAs technology gets better, the quality of telesyncs also improves, although even the best telesyncs are lossy and will be inferior in quality to direct rips from Blu-ray, DVD or digital transfers from the film itself (see telecine). Some release groups use high-definition video cameras to get the clearest picture possible. When an unlicensed copy of a film exists even before its official publication, it is often because a telesync version could be easily produced.\n\nIn the German warez scene additional tags for the audio source can be added to a telesync release. These are LD (line dubbed) for when the audio track of an unlicensed copy has been ripped from the line out connection of a projector or MD (mic dubbed) when a microphone is used for the recording. These tags are not used exclusively on cam releases though.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10875573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10875573", "title": "The Devil and Daniel Webster (film)", "text": "The Devil and Daniel Webster (film)\n\nThe Devil and Daniel Webster is a 1941 fantasy film, adapted by Stephen Vincent Benét and Dan Totheroh from Benét's short story, \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\". The film's title was changed to All That Money Can Buy to avoid confusion with another film released by RKO that year, \"The Devil and Miss Jones\", but later had the title restored on some prints. It has also been released under the titles Mr. Scratch, Daniel and the Devil and Here Is a Man. The film stars Edward Arnold, Walter Huston, and James Craig.\n\nA retelling of the Faust legend, set in 1840s rural New Hampshire, it was directed by German-born actor-director William Dieterle who (under his original name, Wilhelm Dieterle) played a featured role in F. W. Murnau's epic silent version of \"Faust\" in 1926.\n\nIn 1840 New Hampshire, Jabez Stone (James Craig), a poor kindhearted farmer, is broke and plagued by bad luck, and, with the local money-lender, Miser Stevens, about to foreclose on his farm, he has reached the limit of his endurance. After a series of mishaps, he impulsively declares that he would sell his soul to the devil for two cents, and moments later the devil appears, calling himself \"Mr. Scratch\" (Walter Huston). He appears to offer Jabez a bargain: sell his soul in return for seven years of good luck and prosperity. Scratch tempts Jabez by magically revealing a hoard of Hessian gold coins, which appears from under the barn floor, and, unable to resist the lure of the gold, Jabez signs the contract. He begins his new life with hope, paying off his debts, buying new tools and supplies, and new clothes for his wife and mother. While the women are shopping, Jabez meets and becomes friends with famous New Hampshire Congressman and orator Daniel Webster (Edward Arnold), a friend of his wife's family, and a widely loved figure who champions the cause of the poor farmers - although we learn that Webster himself is being tempted by Mr. Scratch to sell his soul, in return for fulfilling his ambition to become President of the United States.\n\nAs time passes, Jabez's increasing wealth begins to change him. When only his crops are spared from a freak hailstorm, he ensnares his desperate neighbors with onerous financial contracts, and he slowly alienates his devoted wife Mary (Anne Shirley) and his pious mother (Jane Darwell). Later, as the townspeople celebrate the harvest in Jabez's barn, Mary gives birth to their first child, whom they name Daniel in honor of Mr. Webster, but minutes later, Jabez discovers that the local girl they had hired as a maid has vanished. In her place, he finds the beautiful and sinister Belle (Simone Simon) who has been sent by Mr. Scratch. She bewitches Jabez, driving a wedge between him and Mary. Soon, Jabez has stopped going to church and, after his family leaves, he secretly hosts gambling parties at his home. As Daniel grows, he too falls under Belle's malign influence, and she turns him into a spoiled, disobedient brat.\n\nIn a few more years, Jabez is one of the richest men in the country: he lives like a lord, and has built a lavish new mansion (which his mother refuses to live in). He throws a huge ball, but it ends in disaster: after a nightmarish dance between Belle and Miser Stephens, Jabez finds Stephens dead on the floor. He, too, had signed a pact with Mr. Scratch and his time was up. Realizing that all his guests have fled, Jabez turns on Mary, blaming her for all his troubles, and he throws her out. Now desperate and realizing that his \"own\" time is almost up, he tries to erase the deadline Mr. Scratch has burned into the tree outside the barn, but Scratch appears and again tempts Jabez, offering to extend his deal in return for the soul of his son. Horrified, Jabez flees and chases after Mary. He begs her forgiveness and pleads with Webster to help him find some way out of his bargain with the devil. Webster agrees to take his case. Mr. Scratch again offers an extension in exchange for Jabez's son, but Jabez turns him down. He then begs Webster to leave before it is too late, but Webster refuses to go, boasting that he has never left a jug or a case half-finished.\n\nWhen Mr. Scratch shows up to claim his due, Webster has to wager his own soul before his fiendish opponent will agree to a trial by jury. Mr. Scratch chooses the jury members from among the most notorious personalities of American history (including Benedict Arnold) with John Hathorne (one of the magistrates of the Salem witch trials) as the judge. When Webster protests, Mr. Scratch points out that they were \"Americans all\". With his own soul now at risk, Webster proceeds to defend Jabez Stone, who is accused of breaching contract.\n\nHe begins by stating that he envies the jury because, as Americans, they were present at the birth of a nation, part of a heritage they were born to share. Unfortunately, they were fooled like Jabez Stone, trapped in their desire to rebel against their fate, but what would they give to be given another chance? Webster explains that it is the eternal right of everyone, including the jury, to raise their fists against their fates, but when that happens, one finds oneself at a crossroads. They took the wrong turn, just as Stone did, but he has found out in time, and this night he is there to save his soul. Daniel asks the jury to give Stone another chance to walk upon the earth, for what would they give to see those things they remember? They were all men once, breathing clean American air, which was free and blew across the earth they loved.\n\nWebster starts to expound on the virtue of simple and good things – \"... the freshness of a fine morning ... the taste of food when you're hungry ... the new day that's every day when you're a child ... \" – and how, without the soul, those things are sickened. He reminds the jury that Mr. Scratch had told them that the soul meant nothing, and they believed him and lost their freedom. Next, Webster discourses on 'freedom' as not just a big word: \"It is the morning, the bread, and the risen sun ... \", it was the reason for making the voyage to come to America. Mistakes were made, but out of things wrong and right a new thing has come: a free man with a freedom that includes his own soul. Yet how can the jury be on the side of the oppressor, when Stone is a brother, a fellow American? Webster then implores the jury to let Stone keep his soul, which, after all, does not belong to him alone, but to his family and country. \"Don't let the country go to the devil\", thunders Daniel Webster. \"Free Stone.\"\n\nAfter a few moments, Hathorne asks the jury for their verdict and, in response, the foreman, Arnold, tears up the contract, releasing Jabez from his deal. Webster then kicks Mr Scratch out, but, as he is ejected, the fiend promises that Webster will never fulfill his ambition to become President. Scratch sits alone in the final scene, resignedly thumbing through a notebook. He puts it away and then breaks the fourth wall, moving his gaze until he stops and looks straight ahead, giving the effect of singling out the viewer; Scratch then points directly at the viewer and smiles evilly as the film fades out.\n\n\nAfter the success of \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\", William Dieterle founded his own production company and signed a contract with RKO Radio Pictures, the studio that had produced the film. He decided to adapt Stephen Vincent Benet's short story of the same name as the first film he would make under the contract with the studio.\n\nThe story had been adapted to the stage in 1939 at the Martin Beck Theater to great acclaim, but only ran for six performances because the production proved to be expensive. It was also later adapted as an opera that was done during World War II by USO troupes.\n\nBenet was invited to write the script for the film adaptation, along with Dan Totheroh, the younger brother of Roland Totheroh, who worked as Charlie Chaplin's top cinematographer from his silent short films to Monsieur Verdoux. There were some differences between the short story and the movie. In the original story, Webster regrets Benedict Arnold's absence; in the film, Arnold is present and Webster objects, citing him as a traitor and therefore not a true American, but his objection is dismissed by the judge, and Asa the Black Monk is made up for the film, along with John Smeet, who appears in a deleted scene. The writers also cut out Scratch's other predictions involving Webster's last speech and his sons' deaths in the American Civil War. Walter Huston's character was more soft-spoken in the story and the character of Belle was an addition.\n\nThomas Mitchell was the original choice for Daniel Webster, but he suffered a skull fracture while filming the carriage scene and was replaced by Edward Arnold. \n\nBernard Herrmann was chosen to compose the film, having composed music for Charles R. Jackson's 1938 radio adaptation that aired on \"The Columbia Workshop\". Herrmann was introduced to the cast and crew by Dieterle, whom he found to be a very sophisticated director. In addition to his original music score, Herrmann also incorporated several traditional folk tunes, including \"Devil's Dream\", \"Springfield Mountain\", and a diabolical version of \"Pop Goes The Weasel\" played on the fiddle by Mr. Scratch. Herrmann also collaborated with sound engineer James G. Stewart to make sure that the music and sound worked well together. To create the creepy sound when Mr. Scratch first appeared in the barn, Herrmann had a recording crew go to San Fernando to record the sound of telephone wires.\n\nThe original release was 107 minutes long. It was a critical, but not a box-office, success, recording a loss of $53,000 on its initial run. It was subsequently re-released under the title \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" with nearly half an hour cut, reducing the film to 85 minutes. The cuts were crudely done. The film was restored to its full length in the 1990s and has been issued in that form on home video. However, the title has remained \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\". The restored portions on the video had been taken from inferior prints of the movie, but the quality has been notably improved on the DVD release. A preview print titled \"Here Is a Man\" was found in the estate of the director and served as the basis for the film's restoration and DVD release.\n\nBernard Herrmann won the Academy Award for Best Music, Scoring of a Dramatic Picture and Walter Huston was nominated for Academy Award for Best Actor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29398108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29398108", "title": "Trevor Allan (legal philosopher)", "text": "Trevor Allan (legal philosopher)\n\nTrevor Robert Seaward Allan, (born 9 May 1955) is Professor of Jurisprudence and Public Law at the University of Cambridge and a fellow of Pembroke College. His views are most notable for challenging constitutional orthodoxy in the United Kingdom, particularly in his redefinition of the scope of parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nAllan was educated at St Albans School and Worcester College, Oxford, where he received a MA in Jurisprudence and a BCL. He also holds a LLD from Cambridge University. He was called to the bar by the Middle Temple in 1970.\n\nHe was a lecturer in Law at the University of Nottingham between 1980 and 1985, and joined the University of Cambridge in 1989. He was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy in 2016.\n\nHis books include \"Constitutional Justice: A Liberal Theory of the Rule of Law\" (OUP), \"Law, Liberty, and Justice: The Legal Foundations of British Constitutionalism\" (Clarendon Paperback), and \"the Sovereignty of Law: Freedom, Constitution, and Common Law\" (OUP).\n\nAllan's view is that the rule of law occupies a superior position to parliamentary sovereignty in the constitutional hierarchy. He develops this view in \"The Sovereignty of Law: Freedom, Constitution and Common Law\".\n"}
{"id": "1154322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1154322", "title": "United Kingdom trade mark law", "text": "United Kingdom trade mark law\n\nUnited Kingdom trade mark law provides protection for the use of trade marks in the UK. A trade mark is a way for one party to distinguish themselves from another. In the business world, a trade mark provides a product or organisation with an identity which cannot be imitated by its competitors.\n\nA trade mark can be a name, word, phrase, logo, symbol, design, image, sound, shape, signature or any combination of these elements. In UK law, as in most common law countries other than the United States and Canada, the term is written as \"trade mark\" (as in the Trade Marks Act 1994), not \"trademark\".\n\nThe owners of a trade mark can legally defend their mark against infringements. To do so, the trade mark must either be registered, or have been used for a period of time so that it has acquired local distinctiveness (Prior Rights).\n\nThe extent to which a trade mark is defendable depends upon the similarity of the trade marks involved, the similarity of the products or services involved and whether the trademark has acquired distinctiveness.\n\nA registered trade mark is relatively simple to defend in a court of law. An unregistered trade mark relies on the law of passing off (where one party's goods or services are presented in a way that causes confusion between them and the goods or services of another party).\n\nRights have also been recently extended with regard to well-known trade marks.\n\nThe Trade Marks Act 1994 states that \"a person infringes a registered trade mark if he uses in the course of trade a sign which is identical with the trade mark in relation to goods or services which are identical with those for which it is registered\". A person may also infringe a registered trade mark where the sign is similar and the goods or services are similar to those for which the mark is registered and there is a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public as a result.\n\nA person also infringes a registered trade mark where a sign is identical but the goods are dissimilar if the trade mark has a reputation in the UK and its use takes unfair advantage of, or is detrimental to, the mark's distinctive character or reputation.\n\nThe registration of trade marks in the UK is achieved through the UK Intellectual Property Office. If registration is accepted by the UKIPO, a number of exclusive rights are bestowed upon the trade mark owner. These rights allow the owner to prevent unauthorised use of the mark on products that are identical or similar to the registered mark.\n\nWhen a trade mark application is made to the UKIPO, it examines the application to decide whether the trade mark that is being applied for is distinctive enough to be a trade mark. Registration usually takes about three and a half to four months. However, this time span can be greatly increased if any objections are raised to the mark's registration by owners of similar registered trade marks or by the UKIPO themselves. Once a trademark is registered, it is kept on the register for ten years, after which it needs to be renewed to preserve the owner's rights over it. It can also be allowed to lapse.\n\nTrade marks are registered in one or more of 45 classes. There are 34 classes of goods and 11 for services. These classes group products that are deemed to be similar in function, and are identified by their number. For example, the registration of a trade mark for a range of gymnastic and sporting articles is classified by the trademark registry in \"class 28\".\n\nSome of the main objections that the UKIPO will make when trademarks are submitted for registration are usually related to the \"distinctiveness\" of the mark. An inherently distinctive mark is the easiest to register, as it has no prior meaning. These marks are not to be found in dictionaries. A good example of such a distinctive trademark is iPod.\n\nWords that appear in the dictionary can still be registered. These arbitrary trademarks are meaningless in the context of their use. For example, \"Apple Computer\", or \"Apple Corps\".\n\nSuggestive trade marks do not describe a characteristic of the product, but with some imagination, are identifiable with their connected product. For example, \"ColdSeal windows\".\n\nDescriptive trade marks use words that appear in the dictionary that describe the product to which they relate. They are usually difficult to register, and the registrar needs to prove that the mark has become distinctive through its long term use. Descriptive marks can be made distinctive by the addition of other elements to the name or logo.\n\nA descriptive trade mark can only be registered if it has \"acquired distinctiveness\". This is achievable through its use, although proving that \"acquired distinctiveness\" has been achieved usually relies on sales figures and advertising budgets.\n\nMost countries exclude certain terms and symbols from being registrable. These include emblems, flags, royal insignia, and the rings of the Olympic Games. In addition, marks that are deceptive as to the country of the product's origin and marks that are obscene are unregistrable.\n\nIn 1862 the Merchandise Marks Act made it a criminal offence to imitate another's trade mark \"with intent to defraud or to enable another to defraud\". In 1875, the Trade Marks Registration Act was passed which allowed formal registration of trade marks at the UK Patent Office for the first time. Registration was considered to comprise prima facie evidence of ownership of a trade mark and registration of marks began on 1 January 1876. The first trade mark to be so registered was the red triangle of the Bass Brewery. The 1875 Act defined a registrable trade mark as \"a device, or mark, or name of an individual or firm printed in some particular and distinctive manner; or a written signature or copy of a written signature of an individual or firm; or a distinctive label or ticket\". However, any word or name that was in use as a trade mark before the passing of the Act (in August 1875) was entitled to registration, whether or not the mark fulfilled these criteria.\n\nIn 1883 the Patents and Trade Marks Act substantially revised trade mark law, reducing the cost of application, and included the facility to register \"fancy words not in common use\" and \"brands\" as new marks for the first time. Further major trademark acts were passed in 1888 and 1905 (which both further refined definitions of a trade mark), 1919 (which separated the trade mark register into Parts A and B, each of which had different registration criteria) and 1938, the last of which remained in force until it was superseded in 1994.\n\nThe current UK Trade Mark legislation is the Trade Marks Act 1994, which implements the European Trade Marks Directive into national law.\n\nThe UK Intellectual Property Office radically altered the way UK national trade mark applications were examined in October 2007. Previously, UK national trade mark applications underwent a full examination both on absolute (distinctiveness) and relative (prior rights) grounds. In October 2007, the search which formed a part of the examination of applications on prior rights grounds became an advisory search in a similar fashion to the Community Trade Mark system, bringing into force Section 8 of the Trade Marks Act 1994. No longer will the UKIPO unilaterally be able to prevent the grant of a UK national trade mark application on the basis of an earlier pending application or prior registration for a conflicting mark. Instead, it will be up to the proprietor of that right to oppose the application when it advertised for opposition purposes, although the UKIPO will still advise owners of conflicting application where citations including their marks have been sent to the applicant to assist them in making an opposition.\n\nA fast-track application process has also been available to applicants since 7 April 2008. \n\nAspects of UK common law also relate to trade marks, most notably the common law tort of passing off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2578725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2578725", "title": "United States open-container laws", "text": "United States open-container laws\n\nIn the United States, open container laws regulate or prohibit the existence of open containers of alcohol in certain areas, as well as the active consumption of alcohol in those areas. \"Public places\" in this context refers to openly public places such as sidewalks, parks and vehicles. It does not include nominally private spaces which are open to the public, such as bars, restaurants and stadiums. The purpose of these laws is to restrict public intoxication, especially the dangerous act of operating a vehicle while intoxicated. Open container laws are state laws, rather than federal laws; thus they vary from state to state.\n\nThe majority of U.S. states and localities prohibit possessing and/or consuming an open container of alcohol in public places, such as on the street, while 24 states do not have statutes regarding public consumption of alcohol. However, the definition of \"public place\" is not always clear. California is unique in that it does have a state law on the books, but similar to states that have no law, the state law only applies to areas in which the \"city, county, or city and county have enacted an ordinance\".\n\nOpen container restrictions are not always rigorously enforced, and open containers may in fact be legally permitted in nominally private events which are open to the public. This is especially true in downtown districts and during holidays and sporting events; see tailgate party.\n\nThere are public places in the United States where open containers are explicitly permitted:\n\nTo comply with the TEA-21 rules of the federal Department of Transportation, a state's motor vehicle open container laws must:\n\nCurrently, 39 states and the District of Columbia are in compliance. Alaska, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Wyoming have similar limits on the possession of open containers in vehicles, but not to the level of TEA-21 compliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1155141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155141", "title": "Use of force", "text": "Use of force\n\nThe use of force, in the context of law enforcement, may be defined as the \"amount of effort required by police to compel compliance by an unwilling subject\".\n\nUse of force doctrines can be employed by law enforcement officers and military personnel on guard duty. The aim of such doctrines is to balance the needs of security with ethical concerns for the rights and well-being of intruders or suspects. Injuries to civilians tend to focus attention on self-defense as a justification and, in the event of death, the notion of justifiable homicide.\n\nU.S. military personnel on guard duty are given a \"use of force briefing\" by the sergeant of the guard before being assigned to their post.\n\nFor the English law on the use of force in crime prevention, see Self-defence in English law. The Australian position on the use of troops for civil policing is set out by Michael Hood in \"Calling Out the Troops: Disturbing Trends and Unanswered Questions\"; compare \"Use of Deadly Force by the South African Police Services Re-visited\" by Malebo Keebine-Sibanda and Omphemetse Sibanda.\n\nUse of force dates back to the beginning of established law enforcement, with a fear that officers would abuse their power. In today's society this fear still exists and one of the ways to fix this problem is to require police to wear body cameras and to have them turned on during all interactions with civilians.\n\nThe use of force may be standardized by a use of force continuum, which presents guidelines as to the degree of force appropriate in a given situation. One source identifies five very generalized steps, increasing from least use of force to greatest. It is only one side of the model, as it does not give the levels of subject resistance that merit the corresponding increases in force. Each successive level of force is meant to describe an escalating series of actions an officer may take to resolve a situation, and the level of force used rises only when a lower level of force would be ineffective in dealing with the situation.\nTypically any style of a use of force continuum will start with officer presence, and end with the use of deadly force.\n\n\nUse of force continuums can be further broken down.\n\nOn November 12, 1984 Graham, who was a diabetic, felt an insulin reaction coming on and rushed to the store with a friend to get some orange juice. When the store was too crowded, he and his friend proceeded to go to another friend's house. In the midst of all this, he was being watched by Officer Connor, of the Charlotte City Police Department police department. While on their way to the friend's house, the officer stopped the two of them and called for backup. After several other officers arrived, one of them handcuffed Graham. Eventually, when Connor learned that nothing had happened in the convenience store, the officers drove Graham home and released him. Over the course of the encounter, Graham sustained a broken foot, cuts on his wrists, a bruised forehead and an injured shoulder. The Supreme Court held that it was irrelevant whether Connor acted in good faith, because the use of force must be judged based on its objective reasonableness.\n\nOn October 3, 1974, Officers Elton Hymon and Leslie Wright of the Memphis Police Department were called to respond to a possible burglary. When they arrived to the scene, a woman standing on the porch began to tell them that she heard glass breaking and that she believed the house next door was being broken into. Officer Hymon went to check, where he saw Edward Garner, who was fleeing the scene. As Garner was climbing over the gate, Hymon called out \"police, halt\", and when Garner failed to do so, Hymon fatally shot Garner in the back of the head, despite being \"reasonably sure\" that Garner was unarmed. The Supreme Court held deadly force may be used to prevent the escape of a fleeing felon only if the officer has probable cause to believe that the suspect poses a serious risk to the officer or to others.\n\nOn April 16, 2004, what was supposed to be known as the \"biggest party in history\" took place at the annual UC Davis picnic. Due to the large number of participants at this party, people began to illegally park their cars. Sgt. John Wilson demanded that officers start to issue parking tickets to the illegally parked cars. Tickets were also issued to the underage drinkers. Wilson called the owner of the apartment complex because of the disturbances that were being caused; loud music and the sounds of bottles breaking. Wilson was consented by the complex apartment owner to have non-residents to leave the complex. 30 to 40 officers were rounded up with riot gear - including pepper ball guns - to try to disperse the crowd of 1,000 attendees. The officers gathered in front of the complex where 15 to 20 students, including Timothy C. Nelson, were attempting to leave, but no instructions police were given by the police. Officers began to fire pepper-balls, one of which struck Nelson in the eye. He collapsed immediately and was taken to the hospital much later on, where he suffered multiple injuries including temporary blindness and a permanent loss of visual acuity. He endured multiple surgeries to try to repair the injury. Nelson lost his athletic scholarship due to his injury and was forced to withdraw from UC Davis. The officers were unable to find any criminal charges against Nelson. The Ninth Circuit held that the use of force was unreasonable and the officers were not entitled to qualified immunity.\n\nOn July 18, 2014, a West Memphis police officer stopped Donald Rickard for a broken headlight. As the officer talked with Rickard he noticed that there was an indentation in the windshield and that Rickard was acting very erratic. The officer asked Rickard to step out of the vehicle. Rickard at that point fled the scene. A high speed chase ensued, which involved several other officers. Rickard lost control of his vehicle in a parking lot, and officers exited their vehicles to approach Rickard. Rickard again tried to flee, hitting several police cruisers and nearly hitting several officers. At this time officers opened fire on Rickard. The officers fired a total of 15 rounds which resulted in the death of both Rickard and his passenger. The Supreme Court ruled that the use of force was justified, because the objective reasonableness of the use of deadly force must be based on the situation in which it was used, and not on hindsight.\n\nOf the 40 million people in the United States who had face to face contact with the police 1.4%, or 574,000, reported use of force or the threat of use of force being directed at them. About a quarter of the 574,000 incidents involved the police officer pointing the gun at the subject of the incident and 53.5% of the incidents saw the officer using physical force such as kicking, grabbing, and pushing. In addition, 13.7% of those that had force used against them or were threatened with the use of force submitted complaints to the offending officer's department. Of those that received use of force from a police officer or were threatened with use of force almost 75% reported that they believed it was excessive and unwarranted. This statistic was consistent across the Caucasian, African American, and Hispanic races.\n\nA report by the \"Washington Post\" found that 385 Americans were fatally shot by law enforcement officers in the first five months of 2015, an average of more than two fatal shootings a day, which was more than twice the rate reported in official statistics. 221 of those killed were armed with guns, and 68 were armed with knives or other blades..\n\nStudies have shown that law enforcement personnel with some college education (typically two-year degrees) use force much less often than those with little to no higher education. In events that the educated officers do use force, it is usually what is considered \"reasonable\" force. Despite these findings, very little - only 1% - of police forces within the United States have education requirements for those looking to join their forces. Some argue that police work deeply requires experience that can only be gained from actually working in the field.\n\nIt is argued that the skills for performing law enforcement tasks well cannot be produced from a classroom setting. These skills tend to be better gained through repeated exposure to law enforcement situations while in the line of work. The results as to whether or not the amount of experience an officer has contributes to the likelihood that they will use force differ among studies.\n\nIt has not been strongly found that the race, class, gender, age etc. of an officer affects the likelihood that they will use force. Situational factors may come into play.\n\nSplit-second syndrome is an example of how use of force can be situation-based. Well-meaning officers may resort to the use of force too quickly under situations where they must make a rapid decision.\n\nPolicies on use of force can differ between departments. The type of policies established and whether or not they are enforced can affect an officer's likeliness to use force. If policies are established, but not enforced heavily by the department, the policies may not make a difference. For example, the Rodney King case was described as a problem with the departmental supervision not being clear on policies of (excessive) force. Training offered by the department can be a contributing factor, as well, though it has only been a recent addition to include information on when to use force, rather than how to use force.\n\nOne departmental level policy that is currently being studied and called for by many citizens and politicians is the use of body cameras by officers. In one study body cameras were shown to reduce the use of force by as much as 50%.\n\nAt the micro level, violent crime levels in the neighborhood increase the likelihood of law enforcement use of force. In contrast, at the meso level violent neighborhood crime does not have that much effect on use of force.\n\nIn England and Wales the use of (reasonable) force is provided to police and any other person from Section 3 of the Criminal Law Act 1967, which states:\n\n\"A person may use such force as is reasonable in the circumstances in the prevention of crime, or in effecting or assisting in the lawful arrest of offenders or suspected offenders or of persons unlawfully at large\".\n\nUse of force may be considered lawful if it was, on the basis of the facts as the accused honestly believed them, necessary and reasonable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23397182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23397182", "title": "Vilnius University Library", "text": "Vilnius University Library\n\nVilnius University Library or VU Library (also \"VUL\") is the oldest and one of the largest academic libraries of Lithuania. It was founded in 1570 by the Jesuits and as such is nine years older than Vilnius University. VU Library holds 5.4 million documents on shelves measuring in length. The holdings, accessible to members of the university and wider public, include some of the oldest manuscripts, incunabula and engravings in Lithuania and Eastern Europe. As of 2010, the library has 28,420 users.\n\nVU Central Library is located in the Old Town of Vilnius near the Presidential Palace of Lithuania. The central library has 20 branch libraries that serve the needs of faculties and centers of Vilnius University. The central library has a lending room, 13 reading rooms, 3 halls for group work. Some of the rooms are located in historical halls with great artistic and architectural value. The architectural ensemble of Vilnius University attracts more than 10,000 tourists from Lithuania and other countries annually.\n\nInvited by Bishop of Vilnius Walerian Protasewicz, the Jesuits came to Vilnius in 1569. On July 17, 1570, they established a college and a library. The core of the library consisted of the collections of the Grand Duke of Lithuania and King of Poland Sigismund Augustus and suffragan bishop of Vilnius Georg Albinius. The library of Sigismund Augustus contained the best of classical works, travelogues, historical books, chronicles, and literature on natural science, law, military, and medicine published in the 16th century. It included the Bible translated by Martin Luther, works by Euclid and Claudius Ptolemaeus, the first edition of \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" by Nicolaus Copernicus, and many other works.\n\nPrivileges issued by King Stephen Báthory on April 1, 1579, converted the Vilnius Jesuit College into a university, and the library into a university library. In 1580 Bishop Protasewicz bequeathed several thousand books to the library upon his death. Many of Lithuania's clergy and the nobility also donated books to the library.\n\nDuring the 200 years of Jesuit rule at the university, the library collection grew from 4,500 volumes (in 1570) to 11,000 volumes (in 1773). A series of wars, fires and plunders prevented the library from growing further and a great many of its books ended up in libraries in Russia, Poland, Sweden and elsewhere.\n\nAfter the Jesuit Order was abolished in 1773, the Commission of National Education took on custody of the Vilnius University. In 1781 the University was renamed Head School of Lithuania. Its academic course altered, and the library fund was replenished with books on natural science and medicine.\n\nAfter the Third Partition of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795, the greater portion of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, including its capital Vilnius, became part of the Russian Empire. In 1803 the Head School of Lithuania was renamed the Vilnius Imperial University. By the 1820s, Vilnius University ranked among the leading universities in the Russian Empire; the revival of academic research had a positive effect on the library as well. In 1804 professor Gottfried Ernest Groddeck was appointed the head of the library. He succeeded in making it accessible to the public. A Lending Department was opened in 1815, and university staff and students, officials of the educational districts, and gymnasium teachers were allowed to borrow books. The library was moved to the Small Aula, which had a ninety-seat reading room. Groddeck initiated the compilation of an alphabetic and later a systemic card catalog. Compared with other libraries in the Russian Empire, the Vilnius University Library had attained the most advanced European standards at that time.\n\nAfter the November Uprising, Tsar Nicolas I closed the university on May 1, 1832. A large part of library's collection was taken from Vilnius and distributed to various academic institutions in Russia. There were unsuccessful attempts 1834 to establish a public library with the remaining books from the university library. In 1856 the Antiquities Museum and a reading room began to function under the auspices of the Archaeological Commission. In 1865 they were converted into the Vilnius Public Library and Museum. The library was given nearly 200,000 volumes of valuable books and manuscripts from the collections of schools, cloisters, and private libraries that had been closed after uprisings in 1831 and 1863. By 1914 the Vilnius Public Library contained more than 300,000 books and ranked 4th among the libraries in the Russian Empire. It was devastated during World War I, and books were once again transported to Russia.\n\nVilnius University was reopened by Poles on October 11, 1919, and renamed in honor of Stephen Báthory. Though it had been plundered, the library retained a fairly large collection. During World War II, the library suffered again from plunder and fire. The destroyed university and its library needed rapid restoration after the war. Reading rooms were installed and bibliographical activities soon organized. The library managed to retrieve approximately 13,000 of its valuable publications.\n\nThe Vilnius University Library witnessed the following significant events during the period of 1945–1990: the 400th anniversary of the library and the university (in 1970 and 1979 accordingly), the building of two new book depositories, and founding of new departments. The early book collections needed restoration, and Jurgis Tornau, then director of the library, undertook to establish the Department of Restoration in 1968. The library acquired the Department of Graphic Arts in 1969. At the end of the 1960s a decision was made to safeguard integral collections from various donors in the main library depository.\n\nThe library has been equipped with a computerized catalog since 1993, accessible via the Internet since 1994. In 1999, the library began a digital project to preserve its unique holdings – digitization of old books and manuscripts of the 16th–19th centuries (land and castle court books of various districts in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania) and release them on CDs. In 2000 VU Library together with other Lithuanian libraries started to subscribe to various databases, and EBSCO, a universal database of full-text documents, came first. In 2005 for the first time in Lithuania academic libraries history, the information centre \"Odysseus\" for people with disabilities was opened.\n\nA competition for a memorial site at the Vilnius University Library, which had been announced on the occasion of the 450th anniversary of the first Lithuanian book, was won by artist Jonas Meškelevičius (1950–2005), who submitted a project for a commemorative doorway to the library. The official unveiling\nof the memorial – double doors immortalizing images of major events in the history of Lithuanian culture and of the university – took place on May 21, 2001.\n\nVU Library leaders:\n\nThe Humanistics Information Centre (HIC) opened on September 7, 2007. The centre consists of 4 premises:\n\nThe Lithuanian Reading Room was opened in 2008 after reconstructing premises of the Vilnius University Library. There are two rooms – the Lithuanian Reading Room and Cabinet of Jurgis Lebedys. The Lithuanian Reading Room collects Lithuanian periodic from 1918 till 1939, research documents about Lithuanian history, geography, culture and art, etc. The Cabinet of Lebedys houses material for the studies of Lithuanian language and literature. The cabinet can be reserved for lectures or seminars.\n\nThe Rare Book Department has accumulated over 160,000 items from the 15th through 21st centuries. It is the largest depository of old books in Lithuania and rivals the most famous libraries of Eastern Europe by its significance. The collection contains: the largest collections of incunabula and post-incunabula in Lithuania; books from the 16th to 18th centuries; the richest in the world collection of old Lithuanian books (including the first Lithuanian book by Martynas Mažvydas, \"Katekizmas\" by Mikalojus Daukša, works by Baltramiejus Vilentas); especially valuable old atlases and maps; book collection of the Old Vilnius University Library – Bibliotheca Academiae Vilnensis (it includes books from collections of Sigismund August, Sapieha family, Georg Albinius, Walerian Protasewicz, M. Pacas, E. Valavičius and university professors).\n\nThe Manuscript Department contains more than 265,000 documents, divided into 301 archival collections of smaller or larger scope: Vilnius University, Vytautas the Great University in Kaunas, editorial boards, societies and institutions, church institutions, collections compiled by the department and personal collections. The earliest document – a land donation – is dated 1209. Documents were written in Lithuanian, Latin, Polish, Chancery Slavonic, Russian, German, English, Hebrew, Yiddish, Swedish and other languages. Documents are important for research of Vilnius University, development of different fields of science, university's relations with other higher schools of Central and Eastern Europe, history of science and culture of the Lithuanian state and neighboring countries.\n\nThe Graphic Arts Cabinet compiles various graphic works since the beginning of the 19th century when in 1805 the Department of Engraving and the Study of Graphics were established at the university. Major part of the collection comprises old graphics (about 12,000 items) dating back to 16th–19th centuries – artworks of Lithuanian, Russian, Polish artists and other painters from European countries. As of 2009, the Department of Graphic Arts holds over 91,000 artworks.\n\nThe Museum of Sciences, founded in 1973, compiles, processes and actualizes visual scientific material about historical Vilnius University. The Museum is housed in the premises of St. John's Church. Especially valuable is the collection of coins of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, including 12th–15th-century silver alloys – the so-called Lithuanian ilgieji (Lithuanian Long Bars) from Ribiškė hoard, roubles of Veliky Novgorod, grivnas of Kievan Rus'. Museum's holdings also include large collections of Polish, Russian old coins.\n\nThe Museum of Adam Mickiewicz compiles, systematizes, stores, and investigates material related to Adam Mickiewicz, his creative work and activities. Most valuable museum's exhibits are personal possessions of the poet: a small table, a chair and an arm-chair used by the poet when he lived in Kaunas and Paris. At present the museum displays more than 200 exhibits and has a small library.\n\nThe Philosophy Reading Room was opened in 2010 after reconstructing premises of the Vilnius University Library. The Philosophy Reading Room moved from the Faculty of Philosophy. It was the start of the integration of faculty libraries into the main buildings of Vilnius University library. The Philosophy Reading Room consists of 4 rooms, equipped with 40 individual and 11 computerized workstations. In open stacks - Educology, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Social work and Medicine studies literature.\n\nThe Newspapers Reading Room was opened in 2010 after the reconstruction of main building. The Newspapers reading room is in the second floor next to the Philosophy reading room at the end of the corridor. You may find the latest authorized newspapers. There are plenty historical newspapers such as: „7 meno dienos“, „Atgimimas“, „Dialogas“, „Dienovidis“, „Lietuvos rytas“, „Lietuvos žinios“, „Literatūra ir menas“, „Mokslo Lietuva“, „Šiaurės Atėnai“, „Tremtinys“, „Voruta“, „XXI amžius“.\n\nOriental reading room was opened in 2011. The Oriental reading room is established in the Library premises, that have not been used up to now. They are architecturally rather complicated however also most interesting and highest-situated part of the Library. This reading room is the most silence place in the library. The Oriental reading room collection includes Research and studies in Asian languages, cultures, religions, philosophy, anthropology and art history releases, publications in original languages, fiction in foreign languages, Alfred Binder oriental collection.\n\nThe Hall of Pranciškus Smuglevičius is the oldest part of the original library complex, named after Franciszek Smuglewicz (1745–1807), celebrated painter and professor of the university. Until the end of the 18th century, the hall was used as a refectory. In 1803 it was assigned to the library and artist Smuglewicz was hired to decorate it. The painter adhered to the spirit of Classicism; between the windows and on the walls he painted the portraits of the 12 most prominent figures in antique art and science: Socrates, Plutarch, Pindar, Anacreon, Hesiod, Heraclitus, Aristotle, Euripides, Diogenes, Homer, Archimedes and Plato. From then on the hall was used for various ceremonies and celebrations. Adam Mickiewicz was granted his diploma here in 1819. Prominent guests including Napoleon, Tsar Alexander II, and others have visited this hall.\n\nIn 1855 the hall was assigned to the Antiquities Museum of the Vilnius Provisional Archaeology Commission and, when the commission was closed in 1865, to the Public Library of Vilnius. Over time hall's functions changed and in 1867 painter Vasilii Griaznov replaced its classical tones with pseudo-Byzantine ornamentation. The hall was refurbished in 1929 and restored to the version by Smuglewicz. During the works, a 16th– or 17th-century fresco of Mary enveloping the founders of the old university was uncovered on the ceiling. Since then the Hall of Smuglevičius has retained its appearance with furniture from the time of the Public Library of Vilnius. At present the hall is used by the Department of Rare Publications.\n\nAt first the hall was an almost square chapel with a vaulted ceiling, rising upwards through the second and third floors. The centre of the vaults was taken up by a panel with a painted portrait of St. Stanislaus Kostka, the guardian of students. The chapel was built in the middle of the 18th century according to designs of Tomas Žebrauskas. After the dissolution of the Jesuit Order the hall was used by the Department of Paintings. The hall was divided into two floors during the first quarter of the 19th century. For a long time the third floor was home to the Art Department, and the workplace of famous artist Jan Rustem. In 1929, professor Joachim Lelewel bequeathed a valuable collection of books and atlases to the library; they were transferred from Kurniki to this hall, which was then named in his honour and commemorative exhibition was arranged.\n\nThe history of the White Hall is part of the history of the old observatory (founded in 1753) of the Vilnius University. The observatory was designed and built by Lithuanian architect and astronomer, VU professor, Tomas Žebrauskas. Funds for the building were donated by Ignacy Ogiński and his daughter Elżbieta Ogińska-Puzynina, whose particularly generous contribution of 200,000 Polish złoty gained her the title of the observatory patron.\n\nThe observatory was composed of the White Hall, the Small Hall, two slender three-storey square towers, and two small single-storey towers. Six massive Baroque pillars, girded with ornamental cornices divide the White Hall into three parts. An oval opening in ceiling appears to connect the White Hall with the Small Hall above it, and thereby conveys the Baroque concept of infinite space. A remarkable portrait of King Stanisław August Poniatowski is positioned in the centre of the tympanum. The portrait is surmounted by allegorical figures of the sitting women representing Diana and Urania. Diana holds a portrait of benefactress Elżbieta Ogińska-Puzynina, while Uriana has a wreath of stars in her hands.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, Marcin Odlanicki Poczobutt built an extension to the observatory, designed by architect Marcin Knackfus in the Classical style. The extension housed a large quadrant and other instruments. The White Hall contained not only astronomical equipment but also a valuable library with works on astronomy, mathematics, physics, geography, architecture, and other subjects taught at the university. The books were kept in 12 cupboards in niches between the windows. The hall was decorated with approximately 30 oil paintings of prominent individuals and university scholars. The observatory was seriously damaged by fire in 1876 and closed in 1883. During the time of the Public Library of Vilnius, the White Hall was used as a book depository. It was reopened in 1997 after 10-year renovation. A unique collection of ancient astronomical instruments, including globes made in Amsterdam in 1622 as well as globes made in 1750 and dedicated to King Stanisław August Poniatowski, is displayed in the White Hall. Now it houses the Professor's Reading Room and plans are made to arrange a museum of the university's history.\n\nThe Philology Room occupies the second floor above the Hall of Smuglevičius. At first the room was the assembly hall of the Jesuit Academy, later it was converted into a library. When the library was transferred to the present Small Aula in 1819, the room housed a museum of mineralogy. After the university was closed, the hall belonged to the Museum of Antiquities from 1855 to 1865. In 1945, the hall was converted into the General Reading Room for the Vilnius University Library. The hall has once again been newly restored, according to a project by architect Aldona Švabauskienė. The parquet floor was restored according to thesurviving samples from the mid-19th century. The 17th-century vaults have been preserved, but their decorations of plaster-work were painted over at the beginning of the 20th century, and now the room is devoid of embellishments. In the end of 2010 the hall was converted into the Philology Reading Room.\n\nThe hall used to serve as the Jesuits' summer residence. In the 18th century it was decided to adapt the hall to the needs of the library. A frieze with floral ornaments was discovered under a layer of plaster during a restoration in 1919. The design of its wooden coffered ceiling by architect Karol Podczaszyński was discovered after a fire in 1969. It was renovated by Ferdynand Ruszczyc, a professor of the university. The hall's Classical decor and its original grey colour was restored in 1970.\n\nTwo book depositories were built in 1970–1982, but space had once again become a problem in the late 1980s. In 1989, a project for a new library building in the Saulėtekis Valley was announced. However, no funds had been allocated for the construction. In 2004 the university revisited the project of the library building and a new, modern vision was prepared by 2006. The construction started in 2010.\n\nThe new center is planned in the academic cluster in the Saulėtekis Valley. At present, the valley houses four faculties of Vilnius University, several departments of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, and residential dormitories of both universities. It is planned to move several other faculties of Vilnius University and other scientific institutes of Lithuania to the valley. Hopes are that the new academic cluster will also attract business enterprises. The center will be the first construction in the valley, kicking off its further development.\n\n"}
{"id": "111939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=111939", "title": "Washington Park, Illinois", "text": "Washington Park, Illinois\n\nWashington Park is a village in St. Clair County, Illinois, United States. The population was 4,196 as of the 2010 census, down from 5,345 in 2000.\n\nWashington Park filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in July 2009, citing assets of less than $50,000 and debt of more than $1 million. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Pamela Pepper threw out the filing in December 2010 after finding there was no state law enabling a municipality to declare bankruptcy. Washington Park filed for bankruptcy in 2004 as well, claiming a $1.6 million debt, but that filing was dismissed when the village briefly emerged from insolvency.\n\nIn 2010, the mayor of Washington Park, John Thornton, was found to have been fatally shot; he was discovered in his car injured on the morning of April 1, and died at a hospital at 6 AM.\n\nOn July 25, 2012 the chief of police called for the disbanding of the police force.\n\nWashington Park is located at (38.629750, -90.094606).\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, Washington Park has a total area of , all land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 5,345 people, 1,692 households, and 1,218 families residing in the village. The population density was 2,180.4 people per square mile (842.3/km²). There were 2,007 housing units at an average density of 818.7 per square mile (316.3/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 6.06% White, 91.94% African American, 0.15% Native American, 0.13% Asian, 0.75% from other races, and 0.97% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.89% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,692 households out of which 40.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 27.0% were married couples living together, 38.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.0% were non-families. 23.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.15 and the average family size was 3.77.\n\nIn the village, the population was spread out with 37.0% under the age of 18, 10.8% from 18 to 24, 25.2% from 25 to 44, 20.2% from 45 to 64, and 6.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 27 years. For every 100 females, there were 83.1 males. For every 100 women age 18 and over, there were 78.7 men.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $21,132, and the median income for a family was $23,266. Males had a median income of $30,924 versus $20,463 for females. The per capita income for the village was $8,495. About 42.6% of families and 44.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 54.9% of those under age 18 and 33.9% of those age 65 or over.\n\nWashington Park is a part of the East St. Louis School District. Avant Elementary School is located in Washington Park.\n\nManners Elementary School and Woodrow Wilson Elementary School were formerly located in Washington Park. Wilson opened in 1927. In July 2004 the district CEO, Stan Mims, toured Wilson and then determined that the school needed to be closed; the school closed in fall 2004 and students were transferred to three other elementary schools in the area, including Hawthorne, Nelson Mandela, and Manners.\n"}
