{"id": "4138965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4138965", "title": "1991 Sino-Soviet Border Agreement", "text": "1991 Sino-Soviet Border Agreement\n\nThe 1991 Sino-Soviet Border Agreement was a treaty between China and the Soviet Union that set up demarcation work to resolve most of the border disputes between the two states. Initially signed by China and the Soviet Union, the terms of the agreement were resumed by Russia after the breakup of the Soviet Union. The treaty resulted in some minor territorial changes along the border.\n\nThe border between the Soviet Union and China had long been an issue of contention. The Sino-Soviet border was a legacy of various treaties between the Qing Dynasty and the Russian Empire, the Treaty of Aigun and the Treaty of Beijing, in which Russia gained over 1 million km² (400,000 mi²) of territory in Manchuria at China's expense, and another 500,000 km² in the western regions from several other treaties. These treaties have long been regarded by Chinese as unequal treaties, and the issue partially arose again with the Sino-Soviet split, with tensions eventually leading to division-scale military clashes along the border in 1969.\n\nEven as tensions lessened and leaders on both sides adopted more conciliatory attitudes, the border issue remained unresolved. Despite their view of the previous border treaties as unequal ones, Chinese leaders were willing to negotiate on the basis of the modern boundaries. That left about 35,000 km² of territory in dispute, with about 28,000 km² in the Pamir Mountains of Tajikistan, 6,000 km² elsewhere along the western border, and about 1,000 km² along the Argun, Amur, and Ussuri rivers on the eastern border. Border negotiations were eventually resumed in 1987 at Mikhail Gorbachev's initiation. An agreement was reached on the eastern portion of the border on May 16, 1991, several months before the final dissolution of the USSR. Russia inherited most of the former Sino-Soviet border, and ratified the agreement in February 1992, while the other post-Soviet republics negotiated separate border agreements.\n\nThe agreement largely finalized the 4,200 km (2,600 mi) border between the Soviet Union and China, except for a few disputed areas. The agreement states the intentions of both parties in resolving and demarcating the disputed border peacefully, identifies the various points of contention, and identifies the border as running through the center of the main channel of any river, based on the thalweg principle. The location of the main channel and the possession of the various islands would be decided in the course of the demarcation work. Various other articles stipulate military, usage, and traffic rights along the river borders. Two areas, Heixiazi and Abagaitu Islet, were excluded from the agreement, and their status would not be resolved until 2004. According to the estimates by Boris Tkachenko, a Russian historian, the treaty resulted in net territorial gain for China, which received about 720 km², including some seven hundred islands.\n\nBecause islands on the Argun, Amur, and Ussuri rivers often split the rivers into multiple streams, the location of the main stream (and thus the border) was often not immediately apparent. Obviously, each country would receive a greater number of islands if the recognized main channel was closer to the opposite bank. Thus, the demarcation work was often controversial and subject to local protests over disputed territories. The demarcation work continued nearly up until its 1997 deadline.\n\nThe border territories that were disputed (arranged clockwise):\n\nAfter the breakup of the Soviet Union, the former Sino-Soviet border was now shared by Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Russia. While the majority of the disputed territories lay in the west, the Russian Federation inherited only about 50 km (26 mi) of the former western Sino-Soviet border. China negotiated separate border agreements with each of the post-Soviet republics on its western borders. (See e.g. the China–Kazakhstan border).\n\nMenkeseli was a 17.5 km² (7 mi²) region along the Argun River that according to the agreement should have been transferred to China. However, this was opposed by local Russian civilians, who used this area for fishing. The dispute was finally finalized in 1996, in which the region would be transferred to China but local Russian residents would be guaranteed special usage rights to the region.\n\n413 islands and islets along the river were disputed. The final apportionment has 204 islands in Soviet territory and 209 islands in Chinese territory.\n\nSpecifically excluded from the agreement was the status of 5 km² (2 mi²) Abagaitu Islet, on the border between China's Inner Mongolia and Russia's Chita Oblast and near the cities of Zabaykalsk and Manzhouli. In Chinese it is known by the Mongolian name of Abaigaitui, while the name in Russian is Bolshoy. This island would be transferred to China in subsequent agreements in 2004.\n\nThe islands of the Amur river were subject to some border clashes between Soviet and Japanese forces during the Manchukuo period. After the invasion of Manchukuo during World War II, the Soviet Union unilaterally occupied many of the islands along the Amur River and prevented Chinese locals from entering. These islands were the site of several military skirmishes during the 1960s. Most of the disputed islands have been transferred to China. Of the 1,680 islands along the Amur, the agreement now recognizes 902 Chinese islands and 708 Russian islands.\n\nThe two islands of Bolshoy Ussuriysky (32 km²) and Tarabarov island (4 km²) near Khabarovsk, along the junction of the Amur and Ussuri rivers were specifically excluded from the agreement. The two islands are referred to collectively in Chinese as Heixiazi, although the smaller Tarabarov is sometimes called Yinlong. The status of these islands was resolved in 2004, when Tarabarov and approximately 50% of Bolshoy Ussuriysky were transferred to China.\n\nOf almost 150 island groups on the Ussuri river, almost forty lay disputed. Many of these islands were the site of numerous skirmishes and clashes before and during the Sino-Soviet border conflict. Of the 320 islands along this river, the agreement recognizes 167 Russian islands and 153 Chinese islands.\n\nKutsuzov is the largest island along the Ussuri. Under former Chinese possession it was known as Daxitong dao. Control was transferred to the Soviet Union during the Manchukuo period. Under the terms of the agreement, the island remained in Russia's possession.\n\nDamansky, or Zhenbao Island along the Ussuri River, was the site of the 1969 Damansky Island incident. After the conflict, the Chinese appear to have retained de facto control over the island. The agreement recognized China's \"de jure\" as well as \"de facto\" control.\n\nAround 3 km² (1 mi²) of territory at Lake Khanka near the village of Tury Rog was transferred to Chinese control.\n\nWest of Lake Khanka lay a section of territory unilaterally seized from Manchukuo by the Soviet Union in 1933. This territory, about 0.70 to 0.9 km² (170 to 220 acres), has been transferred to Chinese control.\n\nA delta forms at the junction of the Suifen and Granitnaya Rivers, which is also the location of the border. In 1903, the Russian Empire acquired control of the delta. The delta was later given to Manchukuo, which was then restored to China, but the Soviet Union retained control of the islands along the river. These islands have been transferred to China.\n\nThis dispute involves a section of the former land border near the Granitnaya River, which borders part of Heilongjiang Province and Ussuriysky District (now Ussuriysk urban district) of Primorsky Krai. The original Convention of Peking (Beijing) states this section of the border lies along the Granitnaya, but the origin of the river de facto lay inside Russian territory. With the 1991 agreement, Russia transferred 9 km² (3.5 mi²) to China so that now the Sino-Russian border runs along the entire length of the river.\n\nThe Khasansky District lies near the Sino-North Korean border and the Sino-Russian border and included two disputed regions along the Tumen River. According to the agreement, 3 km² (1 mi²) of territory would be transferred to China, and Chinese ships would gain the right to navigate the Tumen river. The territory transfer would connect a previously enclaved piece of Chinese territory to the rest of China (Fangchuancun). This portion of the agreement stirred up some controversy among some Russian officials from Primorsky Krai, as they felt that direct Chinese access to the Sea of Japan (through the Tumen River) would decrease the economic importance of Vladivostok and Nakhodka. Other arguments protested at potential pollution from Chinese economic development, the possibility of Chinese military vessels navigating the river, and the presence of a Russian cemetery commemorating the Lake Khasan Incident in the area. Finally, in June 1997, the Russian side proposed a resolution which would divide the disputed territory in half. This was accepted by China in September of the same year, and in November, when the border demarcation work was declared finished, 1.6 km² (0.6 mi²) were transferred to China, and 1.4 km² (0.5 mi²) were retained by Russia. The Lake Khasan cemetery remained on the Russian side, and the Chinese officials underwent informal agreements to not build a port along the Tumen River.\n\nThe exact location of the Sino-Russian border along the left bank of the Tumen River was an area of contention (the entirety of the right bank of the river belonging to North Korea). The Convention of Peking (Beijing) set the location of border at 24 km (15 mi) above the mouth of the river, where it enters the Sea of Japan, but through Chinese negotiation was later moved to about 15 or 16 km (9 mi) above the mouth. In 1964, both sides agreed to a border about 17 km (11 mi) above the mouth, and these terms were kept in the 1991 agreement. However, the Russian side preferred it to be set at 24 km, and the Chinese at 15 km. The final position was set at 18.3 km (11.3 mi) above the mouth of the river.\n\nThe final position of the triangular border, where China, Russia, and North Korea meet, was successfully demarcated in 1998 after trilateral negotiations from all three countries, and went into effect 1999.\n\nThe Republic of China now based in Taiwan does not recognize any Chinese territorial changes based on any border agreements signed by the People's Republic of China with any other countries, including this 1991 one, due to the requirements in the Constitution of the Republic of China and its Additional Articles. Neither does Russia recognize Taiwan as an independent country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2706616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2706616", "title": "ASEAN Declaration", "text": "ASEAN Declaration\n\nThe ASEAN Declaration or Bangkok Declaration is the founding document of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). It was signed in Bangkok on 8 August 1967 by the five ASEAN founding members, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand as a display of solidarity against communist expansion in Vietnam and communist insurgency within their own borders. It states the basic principles of ASEAN: co-operation, amity, and non-interference. The date is now celebrated as ASEAN Day.\n\nPrior to the declaration, the five Southeast Asian states struggled to contain communist influence. At the time, the Filipino government struggled to give amnesty to former Hukbalahap militants, who staged an armed conflict in Luzon during the 1950s that almost led to the collapse of the central government. Conflict between the Indonesian military and the increasingly influential Indonesian Communist Party ended in late-1965 with the subsequent transition to Suharto's \"New Order\" that was staunchly anti-communist in contrast to previous president, Sukarno's increasingly communist-aligned administration. The Malaya was busy fighting communists during the Malayan Emergency.\n\nCommunism also led to the idea of merging the Federation of Malaya, Sarawak, Singapore, and North Borneo into one entity, which had the intention of eliminating the possibility of Singapore falling into communism. This was achieved with the creation of modern Federation of Malaysia. Singapore left the federation in 1965 due to ideological differences, as to how the federation should be governed, but remained a capitalist democratic society with close ties with its new neighbors.\n\nA related matter was the formation of Malaysia. In 1961, Malayan Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman announced a proposal to create a new federation called Malaysia. This was opposed by Indonesia and the Philippines because Indonesia believed the new formation was a form of neo-colonialism while the Philippines claimed eastern North Borneo (Sabah) as part of its territory.\n\nTo defuse tension, a non-political confederation called Maphilindo was formed. This, however, was not successful due to the perception that Maphilindo was formed to delay or prevent the formation of Malaysia.\n\nDespite opposition, Malaysia was formed in 1963. This led to the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation. The Philippines withdrew diplomatic ties, causing relations to remain sour until the formation of ASEAN.\n\nIt is believed by scholars that the formation of ASEAN has prevented hostilities between Southeast Asian states.\n"}
{"id": "2326325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2326325", "title": "Benjamin Pell", "text": "Benjamin Pell\n\nBenjamin Pell (also known as \"Benji the Binman\", born December 1963) is a British man who is known for having raked through the dustbins of law firms representing prominent people in search of incriminating or compromising documents that he could sell to the press. Pell has reportedly now 'retired' from this activity and makes his living as a media law expert.\n\nAn adherent of Orthodox Judaism who was once a trainee lawyer, he (initially) failed his law exams at University College London in 1986 which he was expected to pass. He later gained a third-class degree, but could not gain employment with a law firm. Pell pretended to be following a legal career for eight months until his family discovered the truth.\n\nPell began his activities in uncovering discarded newsworthy documents, classified as theft, around 1997. The documents he found have been involved in several court cases and led to many newspaper stories, including ones involving Elton John, All Saints and the 'cash for questions' libel case between Mohamed Al-Fayed and Neil Hamilton. He said in 2002, \"[...] I was never interested in the political stuff. I was a showbiz animal, and my showbiz stuff was top quality. [...] You'd get more money for a little nib about Hear'Say than you'd get for anything about Gordon Brown and David Blunkett.\" In the case of Elton John, Pell had hacked into the computers of organisations connected with the singer and looked through the rubbish of John Reid Enterprises, the company of his former manager. Piers Morgan at the Leveson Inquiry in 2011 admitted buying documents for stories from Pell while editor of the \"Daily Mirror\", including Elton John's discarded bank statements, and said that such behaviour was on the \"cusp of [the] unethical\". Pell's activity was referred to as \"binology\".\n\nPell was the subject of a Channel 4 television documentary \"Scandal in the Bins\" (2000) produced by Victor Lewis-Smith. Another documentary -- reportedly in production at around the same time -- produced by Iain Jones, led Pell to claim in 2001 that John Mappin had fraudulently misrepresented his claim to be able to make a movie about Pell, and had \"hoodwinked\" him out of nearly £80,000. The following year Pell successfully sued Mappin, whose family founded the Mappin & Webb jewellery firm, and recovered his £77,750; Mappin had said he could commission a \"well-connected Hollywood film-maker\", but Jones had turned out to be a hairdresser. The court ordered Mappin to pay Pell's legal costs and interest on the money he had been given. According to an interview Pell gave at this time, he ended his regular bin-searching activity in February 2001.\n\nIn 2003, he won damages of £125,000 in an out-of-court settlement from the \"Sunday Express\", which had falsely accused him of providing the IRA with information, and slander against Mark Watts, the journalist who had verbally accused him of the same act. Watts wrote a book about Pell titled \"The Fleet Street Sewer Rat\", published in 2005. He has been prosecuted himself and was only fined £20, due to his claim that he lived off a weekly £10 payment from his father despite the estimated £100,000 a year he was earning from selling documents to newspapers. He has asserted that it was about £25,000. He was mentioned regularly in \"Private Eye\", which nicknamed him 'Benji the Binman'.\n\nBenjamin Pell can often be found in the Royal Courts of Justice taking notes on libel trials, in which he has a particular interest, and is well known to the Queen's Bench jurists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25240107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25240107", "title": "Boxing on NBC", "text": "Boxing on NBC\n\nBoxing on NBC is the de facto title for NBC Sports' boxing television coverage.\n\nThe earliest incarnation of NBC's boxing telecasts could be traced back to 1944. Although technically, an anthology program, the \"Cavalcade of Sports\" was best known for Friday night boxing (from Madison Square Garden) on NBC from 1944 through 1960, and (after NBC decided against featuring boxing due to sensitivity over criminal allegations in the sport) then for several more years on ABC. When \"Cavalcade of Sports\" closed up shop on June 24, 1960 after a 14-year period, it marked the longest continuous run of any boxing program in television history.\n\nAnother boxing program called \"Boxing from St. Nicholas Arena\" aired on NBC during the same period (more specifically, from 1946–1948) as the \"Cavalcade of Sports\".\n\nIn 2003, NBC entered a joint venture with Telemundo and boxing promotional group Main Events. On three consecutive Saturday afternoons – May 3, 10 and 17 – NBC Sports and Telemundo provided live coverage from the same Main Events-promoted boxing event. It marked the first time that NBC broadcast professional boxing since 1992, when \"Sportsworld\" ended its run after 14 years.\n\nThe following year, NBC and Telemundo renewed their partnership with a series of five Saturday cards beginning April 17.\n\nBeginning in 2006, when the NBCSN was known as Versus, they began airing matches from Bob Arum's Top Rank group. Nick Charles was one of the announcers. In 2010, Versus broadcast the World Series of Boxing.\n\nNBCSN's \"Fight Night\" series premiered on January 21, 2012 from 2300 Arena in Philadelphia with Kenny Rice and trainer Freddie Roach on the call and Chris Mannix of \"Sports Illustrated\" serving as reporter and researcher.\n\nIn January 2015, NBC announced that Al Michaels would host ringside along with blow-by-blow man Marv Albert and color commentator Sugar Ray Leonard for the \"PBC on NBC\" Saturday night bouts. In partnership with Haymon Boxing, NBC would televise 20 \"PBC on NBC\" events (beginning on March 7), including five to be shown in prime time on Saturday nights.\n\nOn July 2, 1921, NBC's future owner RCA and its Hoboken, New Jersey based radio station WJY presented live coverage of the Jack Dempsey vs. Georges Carpentier heavyweight title fight. In the first major sporting event to be broadcast to a regional audience, ringside announcer J. Andrew White called Dempsey's fourth-round knockout victory.\n\nOn June 1, 1939, NBC (or technically, WNBT, which would eventually becoming NBC's flagship affiliate, WNBC) became the first American television network to broadcast a boxing match. Emanating from Yankee Stadium in New York City, Bill Stern provided the blow-by-blow commentary for the fight between Lou Nova and Max Baer. \n\nOn the premiere episode of \"Cavalcade of Sports\" (airing on September 29, 1944), NBC broadcast a 15-round bout between Willie Pep and Chalky Wright.\n\nOn June 19, 1946, at Yankee Stadium, Joe Louis defeated Billy Conn in the first televised World Heavyweight Championship bout ever. 146,000 people watched it on TV, also setting a record for the most seen world heavyweight bout in history. One year later on NBC on December 5, Joe Louis defeated Jersey Joe Walcott to retain the world heavyweight title.\n\nOn February 14, 1951, Sugar Ray Robinson defeated Jake LaMotta in 13 rounds for the world middleweight title.\n\nOn the March 26, 1954 edition of \"Gillette Cavalcade of Sports\" from New York City's Madison Square Garden, Al Andrews and Gustav Scholz fought in NBC's first color transmission of a sporting event.\n\nOn the July 14, 1979 edition of \"NBC SportsWorld\", NBC aired an eight round long exhibition match from Denver's Mile High Stadium between former Broncos defensive lineman Lyle Alzado and Muhammad Ali. Sam Nover provided the blow-by-blow commentary with Dick Schaap reporting. Two years later on June 25, \"NBC SportsWorld\" aired Sugar Ray Leonard's victory in the ninth round against Ayub Kalule to become the WBA World Light Middleweight champion. Marv Albert and Ferdie Pacheco called the action from Houston's Astrodome.\n\nOn May 20, 1985, NBC broadcast in prime time the IBF Heavyweight Championship of the World bout between Larry Holmes and Carl Williams. In what would become NBC's final prime time boxing broadcast for 30 years, Dick Enberg hosted while Marv Albert provided blow-by-blow coverage with analyst Ferdie Pacheco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66836", "title": "Broken windows theory", "text": "Broken windows theory\n\nThe broken windows theory is a criminological theory that visible signs of crime, anti-social behavior, and civil disorder create an urban environment that encourages further crime and disorder, including serious crimes. The theory thus suggests that policing methods that target minor crimes such as vandalism, public drinking, and fare evasion help to create an atmosphere of order and lawfulness, thereby preventing more serious crimes.\n\nThe theory was introduced in a 1982 article by social scientists James Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling. It was further popularized in the 1990s by New York City police commissioner William Bratton and Mayor Rudy Giuliani, whose policing policies were influenced by the theory.\n\nThe theory has been subject to great debate both within the social sciences and the public sphere. In some cases, broken windows policing has become associated with controversial police practices such as the use of \"stop, question, and frisk\" by the New York City Police Department. In response, Bratton and Kelling have written that broken windows policing should not be treated as \"zero tolerance\" or \"zealotry\", but as a method that requires \"careful training, guidelines and supervision\" and a positive relationship with communities, thus linking it to community policing.\n\nJames Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling first introduced the broken windows theory in an article titled \"Broken Windows\", in the March 1982 \"The Atlantic Monthly\". The title comes from the following example:\nThe article received a great deal of attention and was very widely cited. A 1996 criminology and urban sociology book, \"Fixing Broken Windows: Restoring Order and Reducing Crime in Our Communities\" by George L. Kelling and Catharine Coles, is based on the article but develops the argument in greater detail. It discusses the theory in relation to crime and strategies to contain or eliminate crime from urban neighborhoods.\n\nA successful strategy for preventing vandalism, according to the book's authors, is to address the problems when they are small. Repair the broken windows within a short time, say, a day or a week, and the tendency is that vandals are much less likely to break more windows or do further damage. Clean up the sidewalk every day, and the tendency is for litter not to accumulate (or for the rate of littering to be much less). Problems are less likely to escalate and thus \"respectable\" residents do not flee the neighborhood.\n\nThough police work is crucial to crime prevention, Oscar Newman, in his 1972 book, \"Defensible Space\", wrote that the presence of police authority is not enough to maintain a safe and crime-free city. People in the community help with crime prevention. Newman proposes that people care for and protect spaces they feel invested in, arguing that an area is eventually safer if the people feel a sense of ownership and responsibility towards the area. Broken windows and vandalism are still prevalent because communities simply do not care about the damage. Regardless of how many times the windows are repaired, the community still must invest some of their time to keep it safe. Residents' negligence of broken window-type decay signifies a lack of concern for the community. Newman says this is a clear sign that the society has accepted this disorder—allowing the unrepaired windows to display vulnerability and lack of defense. Malcolm Gladwell also relates this theory to the reality of NYC in his book \"The Tipping Point\".\n\nThe theory thus makes two major claims: that further petty crime and low-level anti-social behavior is deterred, and that major crime is prevented as a result. Criticism of the theory has tended to focus disproportionately on the latter claim.\n\nThe reason the state of the urban environment may affect crime may be three factors:\n\nIn an anonymous urban environment, with few or no other people around, social norms and monitoring are not clearly known. Individuals thus look for signals within the environment as to the social norms in the setting and the risk of getting caught violating those norms; one of the signals is the area's general appearance.\n\nUnder the broken windows theory, an ordered and clean environment, one that is maintained, sends the signal that the area is monitored and that criminal behavior is not tolerated. Conversely, a disordered environment, one that is not maintained (broken windows, graffiti, excessive litter), sends the signal that the area is not monitored and that criminal behavior has little risk of detection.\n\nThe theory assumes that the landscape \"communicates\" to people. A broken window transmits to criminals the message that a community displays a lack of informal social control and so is unable or unwilling to defend itself against a criminal invasion. It is not so much the actual broken window that is important, but the message the broken window sends to people. It symbolizes the community's defenselessness and vulnerability and represents the lack of cohesiveness of the people within. Neighborhoods with a strong sense of cohesion fix broken windows and assert social responsibility on themselves, effectively giving themselves control over their space.\n\nThe theory emphasizes the built environment, but must also consider human behavior.\n\nUnder the impression that a broken window left unfixed leads to more serious problems, residents begin to change the way they see their community. In an attempt to stay safe, a cohesive community starts to fall apart, as individuals start to spend less time in communal space to avoid potential violent attacks by strangers. The slow deterioration of a community as a result of broken windows modifies the way people behave when it comes to their communal space, which, in turn, breaks down community control. As rowdy teenagers, panhandlers, addicts, and prostitutes slowly make their way into a community, it signifies that the community cannot assert informal social control, and citizens become afraid that worse things will happen. As a result, they spend less time in the streets to avoid these subjects and feel less and less connected from their community if the problems persist.\n\nAt times, residents tolerate \"broken windows\" because they feel they belong in the community and \"know their place.\" Problems, however, arise when outsiders begin to disrupt the community's cultural fabric. That is the difference between \"regulars\" and \"strangers\" in a community. The way that \"regulars\" act represents the culture within, but strangers are \"outsiders\" who do not belong.\n\nConsequently, daily activities considered \"normal\" for residents now become uncomfortable, as the culture of the community carries a different feel from the way that it was once.\n\nWith regard to social geography, the broken windows theory is a way of explaining people and their interactions with space. The culture of a community can deteriorate and change over time with the influence of unwanted people and behaviors changing the landscape. The theory can be seen as people shaping space as the civility and attitude of the community create spaces used for specific purposes by residents. On the other hand, it can also be seen as space shaping people with elements of the environment influencing and restricting day-to-day decision making.\n\nHowever, with policing efforts to remove unwanted disorderly people that put fear in the public’s eyes, the argument would seem to be in favor of \"people shaping space\" as public policies are enacted and help to determine how one is supposed to behave. All spaces have their own codes of conduct, and what is considered to be right and normal will vary from place to place.\n\nThe concept also takes into consideration spatial exclusion and social division as certain people behaving in a given way are considered disruptive and therefore unwanted. It excludes people from certain spaces because their behavior does not fit the class level of the community and its surroundings. A community has its own standards and communicates a strong message to criminals, by social control, that their neighborhood does not tolerate their behavior. If however, a community is unable to ward off would-be criminals on their own, policing efforts help.\n\nBy removing unwanted people from the streets, the residents feel safer and have a higher regard for those that protect them. People of less civility who try to make a mark in the community are removed, according to the theory. Excluding the unruly and people of certain social statuses is an attempt to keep the balance and cohesiveness of a community.\n\nMany claim that informal social controls can be an effective strategy to reduce unruly behavior. expresses that “community policing measures in the realization that informal social control exercised through everyday relationships and institutions is more effective than legal sanctions”. Informal social control methods, has demonstrated a “get tough” attitude by proactive citizens, and expresses a sense that disorderly conduct is not tolerated. According to Wilson and Kelling, there are two types of groups involved in maintaining order, ‘community watchmen’ and ‘vigilantes’ The United States has adopted in many ways policing strategies of old European times, and at that time informal social control was the norm, which gave rise to contemporary formal policing. Though, in earlier times, there were no legal sanctions to follow, informal policing was primarily ‘objective’ driven as stated by Wilson and Kelling (1982).\n\nOn the contrary, many residents feel that regulating disorder is not their responsibility. Wilson and Kelling found that studies done by psychologists suggest people often refuse to go to the aid of someone seeking help, not due to a lack of concern or selfishness “but the absence of some plausible grounds for feeling that one must personally accept responsibility” On the other hand, others plainly refuse to put themselves in harm's way, depending on how grave they perceive the nuisance to be; a 2004 study observed that \"most research on disorder is based on individual level perceptions decoupled from a systematic concern with the disorder-generating environment.\" Essentially, everyone perceives disorder differently, and can contemplate seriousness of a crime based on those perceptions. However, Wilson and Kelling feel that although community involvement can make a difference, “the police are plainly the key to order maintenance.”\n\nRanasinghe argues that the concept of fear is a crucial element of broken windows theory, because it is the foundation of the theory. She also adds that public disorder is “...unequivocally constructed as problematic because it is a source of fear.” Fear is elevated as perception of disorder rises; creating a social pattern that tears the social fabric of a community, and leaves the residents feeling hopeless and disconnected. Wilson and Kelling hint at the idea, but don’t focus on its central importance. They indicate that fear was a product of incivility, not crime, and that people avoid one another in response to fear, weakening controls. Hinkle and Weisburd found that police interventions to combat minor offenses, as per the broken windows model, \"significantly increased the probability of feeling unsafe,\" suggesting that such interventions might offset any benefits of broken windows policing in terms of fear reduction.\n\nBroken windows policing is sometimes described as a \"zero tolerance\" policing style, including in some academic studies. However, several key proponents such as Bratton and Kelling argue that there is a key difference. In 2014, they outlined a difference between \"broken windows policing\" and \"zero tolerance\":\n\nBratton and Kelling advocate that authorities should be effective at catching minor offenders while also giving them lenient punishment. Citing fare evasion as an example, they argue that the police should attempt to catch fare evaders, and that the vast majority should be summoned to court rather than arrested and given a punishment other than jail. The goal is to deter minor offenders from committing more serious crimes in the future and reduce the prison population in the long run.\n\nIn an earlier publication of \"The Atlantic\" released March, 1982, Wilson wrote an article indicating that police efforts had gradually shifted from maintaining order to fighting crime. This indicated that order maintenance was something of the past, and soon it would seem as it has been put on the back burner. The shift was attributed to the rise of the social urban riots of the 1960s, and \"social scientists began to explore carefully the order maintenance function of the police, and to suggest ways of improving it—not to make streets safer (its original function) but to reduce the incidence of mass violence\". Other criminologists argue between similar disconnections, for example, Garland argues that throughout the early and mid 20th century, police in American cities strived to keep away from the neighborhoods under their jurisdiction. This is a possible indicator of the out-of-control social riots that were prevalent at that time. Still many would agree that reducing crime and violence begins with maintaining social control/order.\n\nJane Jacobs' \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" is discussed in detail by Ranasinghe, and its importance to the early workings of broken windows, and claims that Kelling's original interest in \"minor offences and disorderly behaviour and conditions\" was inspired by Jacobs' work. Ranasinghe includes that Jacobs' approach toward social disorganization was centralized on the \"streets and their sidewalks, the main public places of a city\" and that they \"are its most vital organs, because they provide the principal visual scenes.\" Wilson and Kelling, as well as Jacobs, argue on the concept of civility (or the lack thereof) and how it creates lasting distortions between crime and disorder. Ranasinghe explains that the common framework of both set of authors is to narrate the problem facing urban public places. Jacobs, according to Ranasinghe, maintains that \"Civility functions as a means of informal social control, subject little to institutionalized norms and processes, such as the law\" 'but rather maintained through an' \"intricate, almost unconscious, network of voluntary controls and standards among people... and enforced by the people themselves.\"\n\nBefore the introduction of this theory by Wilson and Kelling, Philip Zimbardo, a Stanford psychologist, arranged an experiment testing the broken-window theory in 1969. Zimbardo arranged for an automobile with no license plates and the hood up to be parked idle in a Bronx neighbourhood and a second automobile in the same condition to be set up in Palo Alto, California. The car in the Bronx was attacked within minutes of its abandonment. Zimbardo noted that the first \"vandals\" to arrive were a family – a father, mother and a young son – who removed the radiator and battery. Within twenty-four hours of its abandonment, everything of value had been stripped from the vehicle. After that, the car's windows were smashed in, parts torn, upholstery ripped, and children were using the car as a playground. At the same time, the vehicle sitting idle in Palo Alto sat untouched for more than a week until Zimbardo himself went up to the vehicle and deliberately smashed it with a sledgehammer. Soon after, people joined in for the destruction. Zimbardo observed that a majority of the adult \"vandals\" in both cases were primarily well dressed, Caucasian, clean-cut and seemingly respectable individuals. It is believed that, in a neighborhood such as the Bronx where the history of abandoned property and theft are more prevalent, vandalism occurs much more quickly as the community generally seems apathetic. Similar events can occur in any civilized community when communal barriers—the sense of mutual regard and obligations of civility—are lowered by actions that suggest apathy.\n\nIn 1985, the New York City Transit Authority hired George L. Kelling, the author of \"Broken Windows\", as a consultant. Kelling was later hired as a consultant to the Boston and the Los Angeles police departments.\n\nOne of Kelling's adherents, David L. Gunn implemented policies and procedures based on the Broken Windows Theory during his tenure as President of the New York City Transit Authority. One of his major efforts was to lead a campaign from 1984 to 1990 to rid graffiti from New York's subway system.\n\nIn 1990, William J. Bratton became head of the New York City Transit Police. Bratton was influenced by Kelling, describing him as his \"intellectual mentor\". In his role he implemented a tougher stance on fare evasion, faster arrestee processing methods, and background checks on all those arrested.\n\nAfter being elected Mayor of New York City in 1993 as a Republican, Rudy Giuliani hired Bratton as his police commissioner to implement similar policies and practices throughout the city. Giuliani heavily subscribed to Kelling and Wilson's theories. Such policies emphasized addressing crimes that negatively affect quality of life. In particular, Bratton directed the police to more strictly enforce laws against subway fare evasion, public drinking, public urination, and graffiti. He increased enforcement against \"squeegee men\", those who aggressively demand payment at traffic stops for unsolicited car window cleanings. Bratton also revived the New York City Cabaret Law, a previously dormant Prohibition era ban on dancing in unlicensed establishments. Throughout the late 1990s NYPD shut down many of the city's acclaimed night spots for illegal dancing.\n\nAccording to a 2001 study of crime trends in New York City by Kelling and William Sousa, rates of both petty and serious crime fell significantly after the aforementioned policies were implemented. Furthermore, crime continued to decline for the following ten years. Such declines suggested that policies based on the Broken Windows Theory were effective.\n\nHowever, other studies do not find a cause and effect relationship between the adoption of such policies and decreases in crime. The decrease may have been part of a broader trend across the United States. Other cities also experienced less crime, even though they had different police policies. Other factors, such as the 39% drop in New York City's unemployment rate, could also explain the decrease reported by Kelling and Sousa.\n\nA 2017 study found that when the New York Police Department (NYPD) stopped aggressively enforcing minor legal statutes in late 2014 and early 2015 that civilian complaints of three major crimes (burglary, felony assault, and grand larceny) decreased (slightly with large error bars) during and shortly after sharp reductions in proactive policing. There was no statistically significant effect on other major crimes such as murder, rape, robbery, or grand theft auto. These results are touted as challenging prevailing scholarship as well as conventional wisdom on authority and legal compliance by implying that aggressively enforcing minor legal statutes incites more severe criminal acts.\n\nAlbuquerque, New Mexico, instituted the Safe Streets Program in the late 1990s based on the Broken Windows Theory. Operating under the theory that American Westerners use roadways much in the same way that American Easterners use subways, the developers of the program reasoned that lawlessness on the roadways had much the same effect as it did on the New York City Subway. Effects of the program were reviewed by the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and were published in a case study.\n\nIn 2005, Harvard University and Suffolk University researchers worked with local police to identify 34 \"crime hot spots\" in Lowell, Massachusetts. In half of the spots, authorities cleared trash, fixed streetlights, enforced building codes, discouraged loiterers, made more misdemeanor arrests, and expanded mental health services and aid for the homeless. In the other half of the identified locations, there was no change to routine police service.\n\nThe areas that received additional attention experienced a 20% reduction in calls to the police. The study concluded that cleaning up the physical environment was more effective than misdemeanor arrests and that increasing social services had no effect.\n\nIn 2007 and 2008, Kees Keizer and colleagues from the University of Groningen conducted a series of controlled experiments to determine if the effect of existing visible disorder (such as litter or graffiti) increased other crime such as theft, littering, or other antisocial behavior. They selected several urban locations, which they arranged in two different ways, at different times. In each experiment, there was a \"disorder\" condition in which violations of social norms as prescribed by signage or national custom, such as graffiti and littering, were clearly visible as well as a control condition where no violations of norms had taken place. The researchers then secretly monitored the locations to observe if people behaved differently when the environment was \"disordered\". Their observations supported the theory. The conclusion was published in the journal \"Science\": \"One example of disorder, like graffiti or littering, can indeed encourage another, like stealing.\"\n\nOther side effects of better monitoring and cleaned up streets may well be desired by governments or housing agencies and the population of a neighborhood: broken windows can count as an indicator of low real estate value and may deter investors. Fixing windows is therefore also a step of real estate development, which may lead, whether it is desired or not, to gentrification. By reducing the amount of broken windows in the community, the inner cities would appear to be attractive to consumers with more capital. Ridding spaces like downtown New York and Chicago, notably notorious for criminal activity, of danger would draw in investment from consumers, increasing the city's economic status, providing a safe and pleasant image for present and future inhabitants.\n\nIn education, the broken windows theory is used to promote order in classrooms and school cultures. The belief is that students are signaled by disorder or rule-breaking and that they in turn imitate the disorder. Several school movements encourage strict paternalistic practices to enforce student discipline. Such practices include language codes (governing slang, curse words, or speaking out of turn), classroom etiquette (sitting up straight, tracking the speaker), personal dress (uniforms, little or no jewelry), and behavioral codes (walking in lines, specified bathroom times).\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006, Stephen B. Plank and colleagues from Johns Hopkins University conducted a correlational study to determine the degree to which the physical appearance of the school and classroom setting influence student behavior, particularly in respect to the variables concerned in their study: fear, social disorder, and collective efficacy. They collected survey data administered to 6th-8th students by 33 public schools in a large mid-Atlantic city. From analyses of the survey data, the researchers determined that the variables in their study are statistically significant to the physical conditions of the school and classroom setting. The conclusion, published in the \"American Journal of Education\", was\nBroken windows policing is a form of policing based on broken windows theory. It is also sometimes called quality-of-life policing. William J. Bratton popularized this policing strategy as New York City's police commissioner during the mid-1990s.\n\nMany critics state that factors other than physical disorder more significantly influence crime rate. They argue that efforts to more effectively reduce crime rate should target or pay more attention to such factors instead.\n\nAccording to a study by Robert J. Sampson and Stephen Raudenbush, the premise on which the theory operates, that social disorder and crime are connected as part of a causal chain, is faulty. They argue that a third factor, collective efficacy, \"defined as cohesion among residents combined with shared expectations for the social control of public space,\" is the actual cause of varying crime rates that are observed in an altered neighborhood environment. They also argue that the relationship between public disorder and crime rate is weak.\n\nC. R. Sridhar, in his article in the \"Economic and Political Weekly\", also challenges the theory behind broken windows policing and the idea that the policies of William Bratton and the New York Police Department was the cause of the decrease of crime rates in New York City. The policy targeted people in areas with a significant amount of physical disorder and there appeared to be a causal relationship between the adoption of broken windows policing and the decrease in crime rate. Sridhar, however, discusses other trends (such as New York City's economic boom in the late 1990s) that created a \"perfect storm\" that contributed to the decrease of crime rate much more significantly than the application of the broken windows policy. Sridhar also compares this decrease of crime rate with other major cities that adopted other various policies and determined that the broken windows policy is not as effective.\n\nBaltimore criminologist Ralph B. Taylor argues in his book that fixing windows is only a partial and short-term solution. His data supports a materialist view: changes in levels of physical decay, superficial social disorder, and racial composition do not lead to higher crime, but economic decline does. He contends that the example shows that real, long-term reductions in crime require that urban politicians, businesses, and community leaders work together to improve the economic fortunes of residents in high-crime areas.\n\nAnother tack was taken by a 2010 study questioning the legitimacy of the theory concerning the subjectivity of disorder as perceived by persons living in neighborhoods. It concentrated on whether citizens view disorder as a separate issue from crime or as identical to it. The study noted that crime cannot be the result of disorder if the two are identical, agreed that disorder provided evidence of \"convergent validity\" and concluded that broken windows theory misinterprets the relationship between disorder and crime.\n\nIn recent years, there has been increasing attention on the correlation between environmental lead levels and crime. Specifically, there appears to be a correlation with a 25-year lag with the addition and removal of lead from paint and gasoline and rises and falls in murder arrests.\n\nRobert J. Sampson argues that based on common misconceptions by the masses, it is clearly implied that those who commit disorder and crime have a clear tie to groups suffering from financial instability and may be of minority status: \"The use of racial context to encode disorder does not necessarily mean that people are racially prejudiced in the sense of personal hostility.\" He notes that residents make a clear implication of who they believe is causing the disruption, which has been termed as implicit bias. He further states that research conducted on implicit bias and stereotyping of cultures suggests that community members hold unrelenting beliefs of African-Americans and other disadvantaged minority groups, associating them with crime, violence, disorder, welfare, and undesirability as neighbors. A later study indicated that this contradicted Wilson and Kelling's proposition that disorder is an exogenous construct that has independent effects on how people feel about their neighborhoods.\n\nAccording to some criminologists who speak of a broader \"backlash,\" the broken windows theory is not theoretically sound. They claim that the \"broken windows theory\" closely relates correlation with causality, a reasoning prone to fallacy. David Thacher, assistant professor of public policy and urban planning at the University of Michigan, stated in a 2004 paper:\nIt has also been argued that rates of major crimes also dropped in many other US cities during the 1990s, both those that had adopted broken windows policing and those that had not. In the winter 2006 edition of the \"University of Chicago Law Review\", Bernard Harcourt and Jens Ludwig looked at the later Department of Housing and Urban Development program that rehoused inner-city project tenants in New York into more-orderly neighborhoods. The broken windows theory would suggest that these tenants would commit less crime once moved because of the more stable conditions on the streets. However, Harcourt and Ludwig found that the tenants continued to commit crime at the same rate.\n\nIn a 2007 study called \"Reefer Madness\" in the journal \"Criminology and Public Policy\", Harcourt and Ludwig found further evidence confirming that mean reversion fully explained the changes in crime rates in the different precincts in New York in the 1990. Further alternative explanations that have been put forward include the waning of the crack epidemic, unrelated growth in the prison population by the Rockefeller drug laws, and that the number of males from 16 to 24 was dropping regardless of the shape of the US population pyramid.\n\nBroken windows policing has sometimes become associated with zealotry, which has led to critics suggesting that it encourages discriminatory behaviour. Some campaigns such as Black Lives Matter have called for an end to broken windows policing. In 2016, a Department of Justice report argued that it had led the Baltimore Police Department discriminating against and alienating minority groups.\n\nIn response, Kelling and Bratton have argued that broken windows policing does not discriminate against law-abiding communities of minority groups if implemented properly. They cited \"Disorder and Decline: Crime and the Spiral of Decay in American Neighborhoods\", a study by Wesley Skogan at the University of California. The study, which surveyed 13,000 residents of large cities, concluded that different ethnic groups have similar ideas as to what they would consider to be \"disorder\".\n\nA low-level intervention of police in neighborhoods has been considered problematic. Accordingly, Gary Stewart wrote, \"The central drawback of the approaches advanced by Wilson, Kelling, and Kennedy rests in their shared blindness to the potentially harmful impact of broad police discretion on minority communities.\" It was seen by the authors, who worried that people would be arrested \"for the 'crime' of being undesirable\". According to Stewart, arguments for low-level police intervention, including the broken windows hypothesis, often act \"as cover for racist behavior\".\n\nA common criticism of broken policing is the argument that it criminalizes the poor and homeless. That is because the physical signs that characterize a neighborhood with the \"disorder\" that broken windows policing targets correlate with the socio-economic conditions of its inhabitants. Many of the acts that are considered legal but \"disorderly\" are often targeted in public settings and are not targeted when they are conducted in private. Therefore, those without access to a private space are often criminalized. Critics, such as Robert J. Sampson and Stephen Raudenbush of Harvard University, see the application of the broken windows theory in policing as a war against the poor, as opposed to a war against more serious crimes.\n\nIn Dorothy Roberts's article, \"Foreword: Race, Vagueness, and the Social Meaning of Order Maintenance and Policing\", she focuses on problems of the application of the broken windows theory, which lead to the criminalization of communities of color, who are typically disfranchised. She underscores the dangers of vaguely written ordinances that allows for law enforcers to determine who engages in disorderly acts, which, in turn, produce a racially skewed outcome in crime statistics.\n\nAccording to Bruce D. Johnson, Andrew Golub, and James McCabe, the application of the broken windows theory in policing and policymaking can result in development projects that decrease physical disorder but promote undesired gentrification. Often, when a city is so \"improved\" in this way, the development of an area can cause the cost of living to rise higher than residents can afford, which forces low-income people, often minorities, out of the area. As the space changes, the middle and upper classes, often white, begin to move into the area, resulting in the gentrification of urban, poor areas. The local residents are affected negatively by such an application of the broken windows theory and end up evicted from their homes as if their presence indirectly contributed to the area’s problem of \"physical disorder\".\n\nIn \"More Guns, Less Crime\" (University of Chicago Press, 2000), economist John Lott, Jr. examined the use of the broken windows approach as well as community- and problem-oriented policing programs in cities over 10,000 in population, over two decades. He found that the impacts of these policing policies were not very consistent across different types of crime. Lott's book has been subject to criticism, but other groups support Lott's conclusions.\n\nIn the 2005 book \"Freakonomics\", coauthors Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner confirm and question the notion that the broken windows theory was responsible for New York's drop in crime, saying \"the pool of potential criminals had dramatically shrunk\". Levitt had in the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" attributed that possibility to the legalization of abortion with \"Roe v. Wade\", which correlated with a decrease, one generation later, in the number of delinquents in the population at large.\n\nIn his 2012 book \"Uncontrolled: The Surprising Payoff of Trial-and-Error for Business, Politics, and Society\", Jim Manzi writes that of the randomized field trials conducted in criminology, only nuisance abatement per broken windows theory has been successfully replicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31052508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31052508", "title": "California Shine the Light law", "text": "California Shine the Light law\n\nCalifornia's \"Shine the Light\" law (CA Civil Code § 1798.83) is a privacy law passed by the California State Legislature in 2003. It became an active part of the California Civil Code on January 1, 2005. It is considered one of the first attempts by a state legislature in the United States to address the practice of sharing customers' personal information for marketing purposes, also known as \"list brokerage.\" The law outlines procedures requiring companies to disclose upon the request of a California resident what personal information has been shared with third parties, as well as the parties with which the information has been shared. The law also outlines specific language that companies who do business with California residents must include in their online privacy policies.\n\nThe original bill, California S.B. 27, was introduced to the California State Senate by Liz Figueroa in December 2002. The bill's co-authors included State Senators Dede Alpert, Sheila Kuehl, Gloria Romero, and Nell Soto.\n\nThe bill arose out of increasing concern with business practices in which consumers' personal information, collected by the company with which a consumer engaged in business, was sold to other third-party companies without the knowledge of the consumer. In support of the bill, Figueroa's office offered the State Senate numerous examples of lists of personal information available for purchase on the Internet. Figueroa's office wrote:\n\nAfter approval in the Senate, the bill went to the California State Assembly, where a number of concerns arose regarding \"undue burden\" placed on businesses. The authors made several changes to address business interests, including the addition of a provision granting a business 90 days to \"cure a violation\" and an exemption for small businesses. Revisions also provided businesses the option to either respond to incoming requests from consumers who want to know how their information is being used or to allow users to opt out and \"stop their information from being shared for marketing purposes.\"\n\nThe bill was amended three times in the State Senate and five times in the State Assembly. It passed the Assembly on September 8, 2003 and the Senate on September 12, 2003. On September 24, 2003, Governor Gray Davis signed it into law. The bill became operative on January 1, 2005.\n\nThe law applies to all for-profit businesses that conduct business with any resident of California and have \"shared customer personal information with other companies for their direct marketing use within the immediately preceding calendar year,\" with the exception of businesses with fewer than 20 employees, federal financial institutions, non-profit organizations, political groups and politicians, providers of public real estate records, and credit reporting bureaus. Businesses that maintain a free and public privacy policy that allows users to opt into or opt out of information sharing are also exempt. The law defines \"customer\" as \"an individual who is a resident of California who provides personal information to a business during the creation of, or throughout the duration of, an established business relationship if the business relationship is primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.\" A business does not need to be located in California, it simply needs to have a single customer who resides in the state.\n\nUnder the \"Shine the Light\" law, California defines 27 categories as \"personal information\" when disclosed to third parties.\n\nThe law requires that a business establish designated contact point—email address, a mailing address, or a phone or fax number—where they may direct Information-Sharing Disclosure requests. In addition, a business must do at least one of the following:\n\nBusinesses must provide to the consumer a complete list of all personal information disclosed to third parties and the nature of that information within 30 days of the request (150 days if a request goes to another address or contact point that is not the designated contact point). However, the law requires a business to respond to requests from a single customer only once in a calendar year. The response must include the categories of information disclosed and the companies to which they were disclosed in the last calendar year. Businesses with privacy policies of allowing users to opt in or opt out can respond to Information-Sharing Disclosure requests with the information on how to opt in or opt out.\n\nIf a business receives notice that they have failed to comply by submitting incomplete information or not responding to the request at all, the law provides a grace period of 90 days for them to provide complete information as requested. However, if a business fails to meet a consumer's request according to the law, that customer is entitled to recover civil damages of up to $500. If a company willfully fails to comply, the damages increase to up to $3,000 plus attorney's fees.\n\nThough the law officially went into effect on January 1, 2005, a 2009 independent study found evidence of uneven compliance. Researchers compiled a list of 112 businesses that were subject to SB 27 and did not supply an opt-out option that would exempt them from required disclosure. When these 112 businesses were served information sharing disclosure requests, only 59 of them responded as required by law.\n\n"}
{"id": "1714915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714915", "title": "Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington", "text": "Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington\n\nCitizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) and nonpartisan U.S. government ethics and accountability watchdog organization. Founded in 2003 as a counterweight to conservative government watchdog groups such as Judicial Watch, CREW works to expose ethics violations and corruption by government officials and institutions and to reduce the role of money in politics.\n\nIts activities include investigating, reporting and litigating government misconduct, requesting and forcing government information disclosure through FOIA requests, and filing congressional ethics complaints against individuals, institutions and agencies. Its projects have included the publication of \"CREW's Most Corrupt Members of Congress\", an annual report in which CREW lists the people it determines to be the Federal government of the United States's most corrupt politicians. From 2005 and 2014 the annual reports named 25 Democrats and 63 Republicans.\n\nSince liberal Democratic operative David Brock became CREW's chairman in 2014, CREW has almost exclusively pursued investigations and litigation against Republicans and conservatives. Brock stepped down as the group's chairman in 2016 and was replaced by Richard Painter, who went on to take a leave of absence to run as a Democrat in Minnesota's 2018 U.S. Senate special election. Under Painter's leadership, CREW has pursued aggressive litigation against the Trump administration, and as of January 2018 had filed 180 lawsuits against what it called the \"most unethical presidency\" in U.S. history.\n\nCitizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington was co-founded in 2003 by Norman L. Eisen and Melanie Sloan in part as a counterweight to conservative watchdog groups such as Judicial Watch. Sloan initially ran the fledgling organization by herself; by 2007, CREW had 13 staff members.\n\nIn 2016, the group had four lawyers on staff. During the presidency of George W. Bush, CREW filed 41 lawsuits, with about as many filed during the early years of Barack Obama's presidency.\n\nIn August 2014, liberal political operative David Brock was elected chairman of CREW's board of directors. At the time, \"USA Today\" wrote that \"One of the most vocal congressional ethics watchdog groups is becoming part of a Democratic political operation.\" \"Politico\" wrote that Brock's newly announced involvement with CREW was a \"major power play that aligns liberal muscle more fully behind the Democratic Party\" and that CREW would add a \"more politically oriented arm, expand its focus into state politics and donor targeting and will operate in close coordination with Brock's growing fleet of aggressive Democrat-backing nonprofits and super PACs — Media Matters, American Bridge, and the American Independent Institute.\" Prior to Brock's involvement with CREW, the group had aggressively targeted Republican public officials as well as some Democrats. The Center for Public Integrity wrote that \"Many key staffers left soon after Brock became its chairman, and since then, the organization has almost exclusively pursued Republicans and conservative organizations through federal complaints and its own investigations.\" In April 2016, \"Bloomberg\" reported that Republicans had faced the vast majority of CREW investigations in recent months.\n\nBrock left CREW's board of directors in December 2017, but did not cut ties with the group and continued to fundraise for it. He was replaced by former George W. Bush White House ethics lawyer Richard Painter, \"lending the group a bipartisan air,\" according to \"Politico\". Painter took a leave of absence from CREW to run as a Democrat in Minnesota's 2018 U.S. Senate special election.\n\nIn December 2016, \"Politico\" wrote that after its 2003 founding, CREW had \"quickly built a strong reputation as an ethics watchdog and transparency advocate, filing complaints against lawmakers from both parties, though the bulk of its ethics work targeted Republicans. However, in recent years CREW faced increased questions about its credibility, stemming from a 2014 shift that brought the group under Brock's sway and—in the eyes of many observers—into the Clinton orbit. Brock and his allies joined the group's board, while several longtime employees left.\" In 2015, CREW had revenue of just under $2.2 million. CREW filed just one lawsuit in 2015 and three in 2016, all asking the Federal Election Commission for stricter enforcement of campaign finance laws.\n\nCREW has aggressively targeted the Donald Trump administration, filing its first lawsuit against Trump three days after his inauguration as U.S. president. According to \"New York\" magazine, \"Since then, it has been launching actions against the administration and its allies in Congress at a rate of about one a day, filing lawsuits and public-record inquiries and lodging complaints with authorities like the Office of Government Ethics.\" In June 2017, \"New York\" wrote that \"CREW is officially nonpartisan, but it's a thin veneer. For the last few years, it has been loosely aligned with a network of organizations, including the super-PAC American Bridge, run by Democratic operative David Brock. After the election, Brock promised to 'kick Donald Trump's ass,' saying in a fund-raising document that CREW's litigation strategy would assure Trump would be 'afflicted by a steady flow of damaging information.'\" CREW co-founder Norman L. Eisen rejoined CREW in December 2016 and set about distancing the organization from Brock.\n\nIn January 2018, CREW issued a 36-page report on Trump's presidency, calling it the \"most unethical presidency\" in U.S. history. In February 2018, Environment & Energy Publishing wrote that Painter was \"at the center of more than 180 legal challenges to Trump and his administration as vice chairman of the left-leaning Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.\"\n\nThe organization's website says it is \"dedicated to promoting ethics and accountability in government and public life by targeting government officials who sacrifice the common good to special interests.\" The CREW mission statement has changed several times between 2005 and 2008 to de-emphasize its focus on personal litigation, dropping language that once read that CREW \"differs from other good government groups in that it sues offending politicians directly\" and that it \"is a non-partisan legal watchdog group working to force our government officials to behave responsibly and ethically. CREW's mission is to use the legal system to expose government officials who betray the public interest by serving special interests. CREW aims to counterbalance the conservative legal watchdog groups that made such a strong impact over the past decade\". It added that CREW \"advances its mission using a combination of research, litigation and media outreach.\"\n\nIn 2015, the organization's mission stated, \"CREW uses high-impact legal actions to target government officials who sacrifice the common good to special interests we work to ensure government officials — regardless of party affiliation — act with honesty and integrity and merit the public trust.\"\n\nAs of 2018, the organization's mission states, \"Dedicated to fighting the influence of money on our political system. CREW uses aggressive legal action, in-depth research, and bold communications to reduce the influence of money in politics and help foster a government that is ethical and accountable. We highlight abuses, change behavior, and lay the groundwork for new policies and approaches that encourage public officials to work for the benefit of the people, not powerful interests.\"\n\nAccording to the organization, its activities include litigation, FOIA requests, congressional ethics complaints, Internal Revenue Service complaints, Federal Election Commission complaints, and requests for investigation with government agencies.\n\nEach year since 2005, CREW has published its \"Most Corrupt Members of Congress\" report. The 2012 election cycle saw 11 of the 32 lawmakers included in the last two reports either defeated or retiring. As of 2014, the list had named 88 individuals, 63 of them Republicans and 25 Democrats.\n\nIn 2012, CREW released a report entitled \"Family Affair\", which examined how members of Congress had used their positions to benefit themselves and their families. The report included 248 members of the United States House of Representatives, 105 Democrats and 143 Republicans, \"about equal to their parties' proportional makeup in the House.\" Common practices that do not appear to violate laws or House ethics rules but still raise ethical questions include: paying family for congressional office and campaign work, collecting reimbursements from official US House and campaign budgets, earmarking to projects connected with family members, and charging interest on personal loans given to their campaigns.\n\nIn 2012, after learning that former EPA administrator Lisa Jackson had used an alias email account to conduct government business, CREW submitted an FOIA request for \"records sufficient to show the number of email accounts of or associated with Secretary Hilary Rodham Clinton, and the extent to which those email accounts are identifiable as those of or associated with Secretary Clinton.\" The State Department's FOIA office says the request was closed in May 2013, but had no further information. CREW says it has not received any further information on the request since the State Department acknowledged receiving it.\n\nCREW raised questions about some of the content of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 (H.J.Res 59; 113th Congress). One controversial provision of the bill was section 134, which stated that \"notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution, there is appropriated for payment to Bonnie Englebardt Lautenberg, widow of Frank R. Lautenberg, late a Senator from New Jersey, $174,000.\" CREW protested the inclusion of this in the bill, since Lautenberg's assets in 2011 were over $57 million. The group questioned why this \"death gratuity\" was considered a \"top funding priority\".\n\n\nA legal team representing CREW (including Laurence H. Tribe, Norman L. Eisen, Erwin Chemerinsky, Richard Painter, and Zephyr Teachout) announced its intention to file suit in federal court in New York on January 23, 2017, on the grounds that President Donald Trump's business interests violate a provision in the Emoluments Clause in the Constitution by receiving payments from foreign government entities. The suit has asked the court to order Trump to stop receiving payments from foreign government via his hotels, golf courses, rentals and leased properties. United States District Judge George B. Daniels dismissed the case on December 21, 2017, holding that plaintiffs lacked standing. CREW announced plans to appeal, and separate Emolument Clause lawsuits are pending in other judicial districts.\n\n\nCREW joined with the National Security Archive to challenge Trump's deletion of tweets as a violation of the Presidential Records Act of 1981.\n\nNorman L. Eisen, an attorney specializing in fraud, and eventual (in 2009) Special Counsel for Ethics and Government Reform in the White House, co-founded CREW in 2003. He became known for his stringent ethics and anti-corruption efforts, and for limiting registered lobbyists from taking positions in the administration.\n\nMelanie Sloan served as CREW's first executive director. In August 2014 former Republican activist and current Democratic activist David Brock was elected chairman of CREW's board, and Sloan announced her intention to resign as executive director, pending Brock's hiring of a new executive director. Prior to co-founding CREW in 2003, Sloan served as one of more than 300 Assistant U.S. Attorneys in the District of Columbia from 1998 to 2003 after having worked for congressional Democrats John Conyers, Charles Schumer, and Joseph Biden. Mark Penn, pollster for Bill Gates, Tony Blair, both Bill and Hillary Clinton, also became a director and vice president at CREW.\n\nBrock was elected as CREW's board president after laying out a broad plan to turn the organization into a more muscular organization. Along with Brock, consultant David Mercer and investor Wayne Jordan joined CREW's board of directors.\n\nNoah Bookbinder, a former Justice Department prosecutor and Chief Counsel for the U.S. Senate's Judiciary Committee, was named executive director of CREW in March, 2015.\n\nBrock left CREW in December 2016, and was replaced as chairman of the board of directors by former George W. Bush ethics lawyer Richard Painter.\nCREW operates as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit prohibited from engaging in partisan activity. In 2010, Ben Smith of \"Politico\" described CREW's founding in 2003 as \"one of a wave of new groups backed by liberal donors\" and called CREW \"a vehicle for assaults on largely – but not entirely – Republican targets\", but a 2010 Associated Press story stated that CREW \"has a history of targeting members of Congress representing different races, philosophies and both major parties.\"\n\nWriters for \"The Washington Post\" have called CREW a \"nonpartisan watchdog group\" and a \"liberal watchdog\", while \"Fox News\" has called it \"a liberal-funded watchdog group\" and the \"New York Daily News\" has described it as \"nonpartisan\". \"The New York Times\" has called CREW a \"liberal government watchdog group\" while \"U.S. News & World Report\" calls it \"nonpartisan\". In a report specifically about CREW, the \"Chicago Tribune\" noted the group \"calls itself nonpartisan, but progressive\", and employs staff from both Republican and Democratic administrations.\n\nAfter CREW named him one of the \"13 most corrupt members of Congress\" in 2005, U.S. Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT) called the group \"partisan hacks\" and their allegations \"maliciously false\". The \"Billings Gazette\" reported that CREW defended itself: Naomi Seligman, the group's deputy director, said \"We've gone after a fair number of Democrats, even in this study\" [and Burns] \"should be answering the charges, not slinging charges.\"\n\nIn 2006, \"Congressional Quarterly\" reported, \"Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington has taken aim almost exclusively at GOP members of Congress. Since its founding in 2003, it [helped] investigate 21 lawmakers, only one of them a Democrat\" (Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, in a complaint that also targeted Senator Bill Frist (R-TN), then Senate Majority Leader). A report by \"McClatchy News Service\" called CREW \"a Democratic-leaning watchdog group\".\n\nIn 2007, \"Ms. Magazine\" quoted longtime Democratic pollster Celinda Lake as saying, \"Corruption was a top issue in the [2006] midterm elections, and CREW was critical to the Democrats' success. The fact that they were bipartisan and had created this dirty-dozen list of corrupt politicians really helped people process that these politicians were acting well outside the norm.\"\n\nThe journal \"Broadcasting & Cable\" described CREW's former chief legal counsel, Anne Weismann, as \"a Democrat-recommended witness and so the closest to an administration defender\". In April 2011, CREW was described as \"left-leaning\" by the \"Chicago Tribune\" and \"Lexington Herald-Leader\".\n\nWhen asked in 2014 if CREW would continue pursuing complaints against Democrats, Brock responded, \"No party has a monopoly on corruption and at this early juncture, we are not making categorical statements about anything that we will and won't do. Having said that, our experience has been that the vast amount of violations of the public trust can be found on the conservative side of the aisle.\" During a span of \"recent months\" in early 2016, Republicans were reportedly the target of the vast majority of CREW's campaign-finance allegations.\n\n\"Roll Call\" reported in January 2008 that CREW files most of its complaints against members of Congress, and \"all but a handful ... have targeted Republicans\". The article stated that CREW had issued press releases against Democrats but had usually not filed complaints against them, with the exception of now former Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA), a conservative Democrat. CREW defended itself to \"Roll Call\":\n\nAfter the article was published, CREW stated that it was \"baseless\" and \"omitted key facts\". CREW suggested the \"Roll Call\" reporter had been prompted by a conversation with Landrieu, the target of a recent CREW lawsuit at the time.\n\n\"Roll Call\" reported that CREW doesn't disclose its donor list, and quoted former Deputy Director Naomi Seligman as saying that \"donors play no role in CREW's decisions as to the groups or politicians we target.\" Donors to CREW have included such groups as Democracy Alliance, Service Employees International Union, the Arca Foundation, and the Gill Foundation.\n\nIn January 2012, Democracy Alliance dropped a number of prominent organizations, including CREW, from their list of recommended organizations to receive donations. Support was withdrawn because these groups are more apt to work outside the Democratic Party's infrastructure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6311175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6311175", "title": "Decisionism", "text": "Decisionism\n\nDecisionism (derived from the German \"Dezisionismus\", which is sometimes encountered untranslated in English texts) is a political, ethical and jurisprudential doctrine which states that moral or legal precepts are the product of decisions made by political or legal bodies. According to decisionism, it is not the content of the decision, but rather the fact that it is a decision made by the proper authority, or by using a correct method, which determines its validity.\n\nIn legal theory, decisionism had a notable proponent in the German law scholar Carl Schmitt. Schmitt held that it is not the actual precepts of the law which determine its validity, but rather the fact that it has been made into law by the proper authority. Later in life, when Schmitt became a member of the NSDAP, he used decisionism as a way of justifying Nazi policy, when he was quoted as saying \"\"Der Führer\" has made the law, \"der Führer\" protects the law\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "455614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455614", "title": "Declaration of war by the United States", "text": "Declaration of war by the United States\n\nA declaration of war is a formal declaration issued by a national government indicating that a state of war exists between that nation and another. The document Declarations of War and Authorizations for the Use of Military Force: Historical Background and Legal Implications gives an extensive\nlisting and summary of statutes which are automatically engaged upon the US declaring war.\n\nFor the United States, of the Constitution says \"Congress shall have power to ... declare War.\" However, that passage provides no specific format for what form legislation must have in order to be considered a \"declaration of war\" nor does the Constitution itself use this term. In the courts, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, in \"Doe v. Bush\", said: \"[T]he text of the October Resolution itself spells out justifications for a war and frames itself as an 'authorization' of such a war.\" in effect saying an authorization suffices for declaration and what some may view as a formal Congressional \"Declaration of War\" was not required by the Constitution.\n\nThe last time the United States formally declared war, using specific terminology, on any nation was in 1942, when war was declared against Axis-allied Hungary, Bulgaria, and Romania, because President Franklin Roosevelt thought it was improper to engage in hostilities against a country without a formal declaration of war. Since then, every American president has used military force without a declaration of war.\n\nThis article will use the term \"formal declaration of war\" to mean Congressional legislation that uses the phrase \"declaration of war\" in the title. Elsewhere, this article will use the terms \"authorized by Congress,\" \"funded by Congress\" or \"undeclared war\" to describe other such conflicts.\n\nThe United States has formally declared war against foreign nations five separate times, each upon prior request by the President of the United States. Four of those five declarations came after hostilities had begun. James Madison reported that in the Federal Convention of 1787, the phrase \"make war\" was changed to \"declare war\" in order to leave to the Executive the power to repel sudden attacks but not to commence war without the explicit approval of Congress. Debate continues as to the legal extent of the President's authority in this regard. Public opposition to American involvement in foreign wars, particularly during the 1930s, was expressed as support for a Constitutional Amendment that would require a national referendum on a declaration of war. Several Constitutional Amendments, such as the Ludlow Amendment, have been proposed that would require a national referendum on a declaration of war.\n\nAfter Congress repealed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in January 1971 and President Richard Nixon continued to wage war in Vietnam, Congress passed the War Powers Resolution () over the veto of Nixon in an attempt to rein in some of the president's claimed powers. The War Powers Resolution proscribes the only power of the president to wage war which is recognized by Congress.\n\nThe table below lists the five wars in which the United States has formally declared war against eleven foreign nations. The only country against which the United States has declared war more than once is Germany, against which the United States has declared war twice (though a case could be made for Hungary as a successor state to Austria-Hungary).\n\nIn World War II, the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Germany and Italy, led respectively by Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, declared war on the United States, and the U.S. Congress responded in kind.\n\nIn other instances, the United States has engaged in extended military combat that was authorized by Congress.\n\nIn many instances, the United States has engaged in extended military engagements that were authorized by United Nations Security Council Resolutions and funded by appropriations from Congress.\n\nOn at least 125 occasions, the President has acted without prior express military authorization from Congress. These include instances in which the United States fought in the Philippine–American War from 1898–1903, in Nicaragua in 1927, as well as the NATO bombing campaign of Yugoslavia in 1999, and the 2017 missile strikes on Syria. \n\nThe United States' longest war was fought between 2001 and 2016 against the Taliban in Afghanistan. \n\nThe Indian Wars comprise at least 28 conflicts and engagements. These localized conflicts, with Native Americans, began with European colonists coming to North America, long before the establishment of the United States. For the purpose of this discussion, the Indian Wars are defined as conflicts with the United States of America. They begin as one front in the American Revolutionary War in 1775 and had concluded by 1918. The United States Army still maintains a campaign streamer for Pine Ridge 1890–1891 despite opposition from certain Native American groups.\n\nThe American Civil War was not an international conflict under the laws of war, because the Confederate States of America was not a government that had been granted full diplomatic recognition as a sovereign nation by other sovereign states. The CSA was recognized by the United States government as a belligerent power, a different status of recognition that authorized Confederate warships to visit non-U.S. ports. This recognition of the CSA's status as a belligerent power did not impose any duty upon the United States to recognize the sovereignty of the Confederacy, and the United States never did so.\n\nIn 1973, following the withdrawal of most American troops from the Vietnam War, a debate emerged about the extent of presidential power in deploying troops without a declaration of war. A compromise in the debate was reached with the War Powers Resolution. This act clearly defined how many soldiers could be deployed by the President of the United States and for how long. It also required formal reports by the President to Congress regarding the status of such deployments, and limited the total amount of time that American forces could be deployed without a formal declaration of war.\n\nAlthough the constitutionality of the act has never been tested, it is usually followed, most notably during the Grenada Conflict, the Panamanian Conflict, the Somalia Conflict, the Persian Gulf War, and the Iraq War. The only exception was President Clinton's use of U.S. troops in the 78-day NATO air campaign against Yugoslavia during the Kosovo War. In all other cases, the President asserted the constitutional authority to commit troops without the necessity of Congressional approval, but in each case the President received Congressional authorization that satisfied the provisions of the War Powers Act.\n\nOn March 21, 2011, a number of lawmakers expressed concern that the decision of President Barack Obama to order the U.S. military to join in attacks of Libyan air defenses and government forces exceeded his constitutional authority because the decision to authorize the attack was made without Congressional permission. Obama explained his rationale in a two-page letter, stating that as commander in chief, he had constitutional authority to authorize the strikes, which would be limited in scope and duration, and necessary to prevent a humanitarian disaster in Libya.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48048662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48048662", "title": "Dessauite-(Y)", "text": "Dessauite-(Y)\n\nDessauite-(Y) is a mineral member of the crichtonite group with the formula (Sr,Pb)(Y,U)(Ti,Fe)O. It is associated with derbylite, hematite, rutile, karelianite, siderite, and calcite. Founded in the Buca della Vena Mine, Tuscany, Italy, the mineral was called dessauite in honor of professor Gabor Dessau (1907–1983). \n\nDessauite occurs as small, flattened rhombohedral crystals, tabular {001} with hexagonal outline. Members of the Crichtonite group may be confused with ilmenite or hematite. The difference between dessauite and other minerals in the crichonite group is the occurrence of three additional octahedral sites and of a site in square pyramidal coordination, all with low occupancies. The mineral is black and opaque, presents a metallic luster, and it is brittle. Dessauite presents dimensions of diameter up to 1mm and thickness up to 0.2mm. In reflected plane-polarized light the color is ash-grey with pale bluish tones. The calculated density is 4.68 g/cm. The habit is tabular, forming thin dimensions in one direction and hardness of 6.5 and 7. Dessauite differs from other elements of the crichtonite group because of the quantity of cations and X-ray diffraction pattern.\n\nDessauite was found in the Buca della Vena Mine, Apuan Alps, northern Tuscany, Italy, with many other minerals, coming from hydrothermal fluids circulating through a small hematite-barite ore deposit within dolomite, during an alpine metamorphic event. It occurs in calcite veins hosted within dolomite and is associated with calcite, rutile, hematite, siderite, and derbylite.\n\n"}
{"id": "3357949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357949", "title": "Donor conceived person", "text": "Donor conceived person\n\nA donor offspring, or donor conceived person, is conceived via the donation of sperm (sperm donation) or ova (egg donation), or both, either from two separate donors or from a couple. In the case of embryo donation, the conceiving parents are a couple.\n\nDonor conceived people may never learn of their true birth origins as information about their true biological parent(s) is not recorded on the birth certificate. However, many can get information through DNA testing. Donor conceived people may have many half siblings as a result of the same person's donations.\n\nWith the significant increase in the numbers of donor-conceived individuals (38,910 live babies were born in 2005 as a result of 134,260 ART cycles performed at reporting U.S. clinics in 2005, compared with 20,659 babies born as a result of 64,036 ART cycles in 1996), many have questioned the ethics surrounding the technologies and human decisions surrounding donor conception, and there has been plenty of controversy. For example, the term \"Snowflake baby\" was coined in reference to unused frozen embryos (left over from other couples' attempts to conceive through in vitro fertilization) that have been \"adopted\" by families. Pro-life advocates tend to support such adoptions.\n\n\"ART Cycles\" are not accurate as many people (<40%) who use IVF (egg donation) do not report their births 2012 Asia Pacific Journal of Reproduction: Donor type and parental disclosure following oocyte donation. (2012) 39-45. Volume 1, Number 1>, and that there is no tracking or record keeping required for children born from sperm donation. Estimates of 30,000-60,000 often used are from estimates made with incomplete records from the mid 1980s. Artificial Insemination: Practice in the United States: Summary of a 1987 Survey Office of Technology Assessment | 1988].\n\nThe psychological and social impacts of assisted reproductive technologies (ART) on donor-conceived children and their families has gained a great deal of interest in recent years as this population has continued to grow. An increasing number of family-support organizations strongly encourage parents to openly discuss their children's origins, whether through donor insemination or following treatment with donated gametes.\n\nDonor conceived people have fewer adolescence problems than children of divorce.\n\nFor most sperm or egg recipients, the choice between anonymous sperm or egg donor and a non-anonymous one is generally not of major importance. For some donor conceived children, on the other hand, it may be psychologically burdensome not having the possibility of contacting or knowing almost nothing about the biological father. Thus far, studies have found that a significant number of donor conceived children want information about their biological father.\n\nComing forward publicly with problems is difficult for donor-conceived people as these issues are very personal and a public statement may attract criticism but ultimately are the only remaining option in activism on the issue. Additionally, it may upset their parents if they speak out. A website called Anonymous Us has been set up where they can post details of their experiences anonymously, on which there are many accounts of problems.\n\nThere are donor sibling registries matching genetic siblings and donors. However, with modern information technology, there are other ways of getting information.\n\nOne study estimated that approximately 67% of donor conceived children in adolescence with an identity-release donor plan on contacting him when they turn 18 years.\n\nA donor registrations facilitate donor conceived people, sperm donors and egg donors to establish contact with genetic kindreds. They are mostly used by donor conceived people to find genetic half-siblings from the same egg- or sperm donor.\n\nSome donors are non-anonymous, but most are anonymous, i.e. the donor conceived person doesn't know the true identity of the donor. Still, he/she may get the donor number from the fertility clinic. If that donor had donated before, then other donor conceived people with the same donor number are thus genetic half-siblings. In short, donor registries matches people who type in the same donor number.\n\nAlternatively, if the donor number isn't available, then known donor characteristics, e.g. hair, eye and skin color may be used in matching siblings.\n\nMany clinics and sperm banks offer non-anonymous donors, such as where the donor conceived person may get the identity of the donor.\n\nHowever, an Australian study came to the result that potential donors who would still be willing to donate without a guarantee of anonymity were not automatically more open to initiate or extended contact with offspring. Most potential donors would be willing to meet offspring in a single contact.\n\nHowever, even sperm donors who have not initiated contact through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their offspring, and in the current era there can be no such thing as guaranteed anonymity. Through the advent of genetic genealogy and DNA databases, it is now possible for \"anonymous\" sperm donors to be identified. Possibly the first such case was in 2005, when it was revealed in New Scientist magazine that an enterprising 15-year-old used information from a DNA test and the internet to identify and contact his genetic father, who was a sperm donor.\n\nIn 2018, it was reported that DNA testing has led to a significant increase in donor-conceived people finding their siblings and sperm donors. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4350332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4350332", "title": "Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962", "text": "Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962\n\nEquality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1962, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to equality of treatment of nationals and non-nationals in social security...\n\nAs of 2013, the treaty has been ratified by 38 states. One of these ratifying states—the Netherlands (for the Kingdom in Europe only)—has denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "706904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706904", "title": "Executive actions of the CIA", "text": "Executive actions of the CIA\n\nExecutive Action is a term that may have been used by the Central Intelligence Agency starting in the early 1950s. It refers to assassination operations. It is said that these operations may have been conducted by the CIA's Division D, a subsection of the agency's Directorate of Operations. A possible list of \"Executive Action\" operations may include an attempt to kill Fidel Castro using a cigar injected with Botulism toxin and an alleged plan to kill rebel leader Che Guevara.\n\nThe Ford administration forbade assassination in 1976 with Executive Order 11905. A \"Washington Post\" article, c. 1989, may have reported that a \"secret\" ruling of the U.S. Department of State's Office of Legal Advisor had interpreted that Ford's Executive Order only banned \"intentional\" killings of foreign leaders, thus clearing the way for \"accidental\" killings of foreign leaders; for example, during the confusion of a coup or invasion. Since this ruling was one of at least four preceding the U.S. invasion of Panama, some saw the ruling as giving a green light for Manuel Noriega to be killed \"accidentally\". Noriega survived the invasion and surrendered to US forces.\n\nThe CIA started to use drone strikes for targeted killing under President George W. Bush in 2001, during the War on Terror. It lost authority to do so by order of President Barack Obama, but regained it again under President Donald Trump.\n\n"}
{"id": "18565714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18565714", "title": "Facts on the ground", "text": "Facts on the ground\n\nFacts on the ground is a diplomatic and geopolitical term that means the situation in reality as opposed to in the abstract.\n\nThe term was popularised in the 1970s in discussions of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict to refer to Israeli settlements built in the occupied West Bank, which were intended to establish permanent Israeli footholds in Palestinian territory.\n\nRashid Khalidi wrote in 2010: \n\n\nGershom Gorenberg, \"The Accidental Empire: Israel and the Birth of the Settlements, 1967-1977\", Macmillan, 2006\n"}
{"id": "5134352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134352", "title": "Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation", "text": "Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation\n\nThe Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) was an institution that administered deposit insurance for savings and loan institutions in the United States. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) abolished it and transferred the responsibility for savings and loan deposit insurance to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FSLIC Resolution Fund was created to assume all the assets and liabilities of the FSLIC, which was to be funded by the Financing Corporation (FICO).\n\nThe FSLIC was administered by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB).\n\nIn the 1980s, during the savings and loan crisis, the FSLIC became insolvent. It was recapitalized with taxpayer money several times, with $15 billion in 1986 and $10.75 billion in 1987; however, by 1989 it was too insolvent to save. Pursuant to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), the FSLIC was abolished along with the FHLBB, and the FSLIC savings and loan deposit insurance responsibility was transferred to the FDIC. The FSLIC Resolution Fund was created to assume all the assets and liabilities of the FSLIC, which was to be funded by the Financing Corporation (FICO).\n"}
{"id": "3573491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573491", "title": "Feyli Kurds", "text": "Feyli Kurds\n\nFeylis (also Faylis, Failis, Faylees, or Pahlis) are mostly a group of Shia Muslim Kurds whose heartland is divided between Ilam, Kermanshah, and Lorestan provinces in Iran and the eastern parts of Diyala Governorate and Wasit Governorate in Iraq. They speak the Feyli dialect of Southern Kurdish.\n\nIn his book \"A Memoir of Baghdad\" (issued by Al-Rais publishing house, in Cyprus in 1993), the ex-minister Mosa Al-Shabandar describes the life of the Feylis.\n\nSince ancient times, the Feylis have lived in the border area between Iraq and Iran, which consists of both sides of the Zagros Mountains, which they call it Kabir Kuh, \"the great mountain\". The areas on the Iraqi side from north to south are the following: some parts of Shahraban (now called Al-Meqdadia), Khaneqin, Mandali, Badrah, Zorbateyah, Jassan, Al–Kut and Al-Azizyah. They also reside in a number of cities in the area of Shaikh Sa’ad, Ali Sharqi, Ali Gharbi and Al–Kofah, which is south of Baghdad. However, as early as the first decade of the 20th century, many Feylis moved to Baghdad and lived in its center. Consequently, there are some areas which are named after them, such as the Kurdish quarter, the Kurdish alley, and the Kurdish Street.On the Iranian side, the Feylis live in the following areas, from north to south: Kermanshah, Qasre Shirin, Eslamabad e Gharb, Ghilan e Gharb, Eyvan, Sirvan, Chardavol, Ilam, Chavar, Badreh, Dehloran, Abdanan, Darreh Shahr, Meymeh, Pahleh .\n\nThe existence of the Feylis in Iraq has never been marginal. On the contrary, they have participated in all political, social, cultural, and economical activities.\n\nThe Feylis were seen highly suspiciously by the Baathist regime. Most of the targeted families were of significant influence on a large spectrum of Iraqi society. Having a high level of education, commercial success and ranking positions in the military. The Baathist regime fearing potential dissidence and opposition, implemented deportation policies against Feylis. The official claim was that Feylis were Iranian nationals.\n\nJoost Hiltermann points to the old Safavid–Ottoman struggle, as the leadership of each country used religious references to characterize themselves, their enemies and their battles, unfailingly casting these in sectarian terms. One group of victims of this practice was the Feylis, whose members were deported by Saddam Hussein’s regime to Iran on the grounds that, supposedly, they were basically Persians. It was no coincidence, however, that Feylis are also Shiites. Feylis were not the only Iraqi Shiites to be deported to Iran, either during the Iran–Iraq War or before it. The practice affected any Iraqi Shiites who were listed in Iraq’s population register as ‘‘of Persian origin’’ (taba’iya Faresiya), as opposed to ‘‘of Ottoman origin’’ (taba’iya Othmaniya). This designation stemmed from Ottoman times, when citizens who sought to evade extended military service used a Persian ancestor to claim they were not Ottoman subjects. The modern Iraqi state inherited this system in the early 1920s. Post-1958 republican regimes used it as the basis for deportation policies designed to serve political agendas.\n\nIn 2010, the Iraqi Ministry of Displacement and Migration reported that since 2003 about 100,000 Feylis have had their citizenship reinstated.\nOn Monday 29 November 2010, an Iraqi court found Saddam Hussein's longtime foreign minister Tariq Aziz guilty of terrorizing Feylis during the Iran–Iraq War (see Kurdish rebellion of 1983 and Al-Anfal Campaign), sentencing him to 10 years in prison. Mohammed Abdul Saheb, a spokesman for Iraq's high criminal court, said: \"Today a judge found Tariq Aziz guilty and sentenced him to 10 years in prison. The evidence was enough to convict him of displacing and killing Feyli Kurds. Aziz was a member of the revolutionary command council which cancelled the Iraqi nationality for many of the Feyli Kurds.\" The spokesman also said Aziz was spared a death sentence for the crimes against humanity because he had a lesser involvement than some of his co-defendants in the atrocities against the Feyli Kurds. Of the other 15 defendants in the Iraqi High Tribunal case, three Saddam Hussein loyalists were found guilty and sentenced to death. Two, including Aziz, were sentenced to 10 years in prison. The remaining 10 were acquitted, including Hussein's two half brothers, Watban Ibrahim al-Hassan and Sabbawi Ibrahim al-Hassan. The Feyli Kurd minority comes mainly from an area in northeastern Iraq that straddles the Iran–Iraq border. Saddam Hussein's regime killed, detained and deported tens of thousands of Feylis early in his 1980–1988 war with Iran, denouncing them as alien Persians and spies for the Iranians.\n\nOn Saturday the first of October 2011, the National Conference for Feyli Kurds held a conference in the Iraqi capital Baghdad which was attended by the Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Al-Maliki said in a speech \"the Feyli Kurds have been targets for harming, similar to other Iraqi communities\". He also called \"for the unity of Feyli Kurds under a common tent, uniting them and organizing their activities, together with other Iraqi communities\". He ended his speech by saying \"we shall support the rights of the Feyli Kurds, beginning with the restoration of their official documents and their presence in their homeland and ending with the paying back the funds that were confiscated from them (during the former regime)\". The Iraqi Prime Minister also recognized \"that over 22,000 Feyli Kurds had been deported from Iraq by the former regime, calling for the restoration of their rights\".\n\nAn estimated 120,000 persons are believed to be stateless in Iraq as of 2012. These are mainly Kurds, including some Feylias. This figure is gradually decreasing with increasing numbers of Feylis regaining their Iraqi citizenship in accordance with the Nationality Law of 2006. UNHCR is assisting in the identification of stateless persons, raising awareness about their problems and facilitating their access to IDs and other legal documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "51925336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51925336", "title": "Governors' Climate and Forests Task Force", "text": "Governors' Climate and Forests Task Force\n\nThe Governors’ Climate and Forests Task Force (GCF Task Force) is a sub-national collaboration between 38 states and provinces from Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Indonesia, Ivory Coast, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Spain, and the United States. The Task Force is designed to support jurisdictional approaches to low emissions rural development and reduced emissions from deforestation and land use (REDD+), specifically through performance-based payment schemes and national or state-based greenhouse gas (GHG) compliance regimes.\n\nThe Task Force was initiated by former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on November 18, 2008 at the Governors’ Climate Change Summit in Los Angeles, California. At this summit the U.S. states of California, Illinois, and Wisconsin, the Brazilian states of Amapá, Amazonas, Mato Grosso, and Pará, and the Indonesian provinces of Aceh and Papua signed memoranda of understanding (MOUs) supporting cooperation on a number of issues related to climate policy, financing, technological cooperation, and research. These MOUs also called for the creation of a Joint Action Plan to provide a framework for implementing the MOUs in the forest section. The GCF Task Force held its first international meeting in 2009 in Belem, Brazil, where it approved its Joint Action Plan. \n\n"}
{"id": "14762413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14762413", "title": "History of laws concerning immigration and naturalization in the United States", "text": "History of laws concerning immigration and naturalization in the United States\n\nThis is a history of laws concerning immigration and naturalization in the United States. Immigration is distinct from naturalization. For the first century of the United States' history, immigration to the country was unrestricted. Anyone could move into the United States, start a new life, pay taxes, participate in military service and conduct business. However, while the United States had an \"open-borders\" policy for the first century of its existence, meaning anyone could immigrate into the country without any restrictions, it had very clear naturalization laws from the first years of its existence. Anyone who wanted to vote or hold elective office had to be naturalized. That is, anyone could immigrate in, but only those who went through the naturalization process and became a citizen could vote or hold elective office. \n\nThis set of policies, in which open immigration was permitted, but naturalization was tightly controlled, persisted until the 1870s and 1880s, when growing support for eugenics eventually drove the US government to adopt immigration laws. These laws were intended to end the open immigration policy which the Founding Fathers had permitted, in favor of preventing \"racial taint\" from immigrants who entered from undesirable countries.\n\nThe United States Constitution was adopted on September 17, 1787. Article I, section 8, clause 4 of the Constitution expressly gives the United States Congress the power to establish a uniform rule of naturalization.\n\nPursuant to this power, Congress in 1790 passed the first naturalization law for the United States, the Naturalization Act of 1790. The law enabled those who had resided in the country for two years and had kept their current state of residence for a year to apply for citizenship. However it restricted naturalization to \"free white persons\" of \"good moral character\".\n\nThe Naturalization Act of 1795 increased the residency requirement to five years residence and added a requirement to give a three years notice of intention to apply for citizenship, and the Naturalization Act of 1798 further increased the residency requirement to 14 years and required five years notice of intent to apply for citizenship.\n\nThe Naturalization Law of 1802 repealed the Naturalization Act of 1798.\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment, passed in 1868, protects children born in the United States. The phrase: \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside\" was interpreted by the Supreme Court in the 1898 case \"United States v. Wong Kim Ark\" as covering everyone born in the U.S. to parents who had at the time a permanent domicile and residence in the United States, regardless of the parents' citizenship, with the exception of the children of diplomats and Native Americans. See the articles \"jus soli\" (birthplace) and \"jus sanguinis\" (bloodline) for further discussion.\nIn 1870, the law was broadened to allow blacks to be naturalized. Asian immigrants were excluded from naturalization but not from living in the United States. There were also significant restrictions on some Asians at the state level; in California, for example, non-citizen Asians were not allowed to own land.\n\nAfter the immigration of 123,000 Chinese in the 1870s, who joined the 105,000 who had immigrated between 1850 and 1870, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882 which targeted a single ethnic group by specifically limiting further Chinese immigration. Chinese had immigrated to the Western United States as a result of unsettled conditions in China, the availability of jobs working on railroads, and the Gold Rush that was going on at that time in California. The expression \"Yellow Peril\" became popular at this time.\n\nThe act excluded Chinese laborers from immigrating to the United States for ten years and was the first immigration law passed by Congress. Laborers in the United States and laborers with work visas received a certificate of residency and were allowed to travel in and out of the United States. Amendments made in 1884 tightened the provisions that allowed previous immigrants to leave and return, and clarified that the law applied to ethnic Chinese regardless of their country of origin. The act was renewed in 1892 by the Geary Act for another ten years, and in 1902 with no terminal date. It was repealed in 1943, although large scale Chinese immigration did not occur until 1965.\n\nThe Empire of Japan's State Department negotiated the so-called Gentlemen's Agreement in 1907, a protocol where Japan agreed to stop issuing passports to its citizens who wanted to emigrate to the United States. In practice, the Japanese government compromised with its prospective emigrants and continued to give passports to the Territory of Hawaii where many Japanese resided. Once in Hawaii, it was easy for the Japanese to continue on to Japanese settlements on the west coast if they so desired. In the decade of 1901 to 1910, 129,000 Japanese immigrated to the United States or Hawaii; nearly all were males and on five-year work contracts and 117,000 more came in the decades from 1911 to 1930. How many of them stayed and how many returned at the end of their contracts is unknown but it is estimated that about one-half returned. Again this immigrant flow was at least 80% male and the demand for female Japanese immigrants almost immediately arose. This need was met in part by what are called \"postcard wives\" who immigrated to new husbands who had chosen them on the basis of their pictures (similar marriages also occurred in nearly all cultures throughout the female-scarce west). The Japanese government finally quit issuing passports to the Territory of Hawaii for single women in the 1920s.\n\nCongress also banned persons because of poor health or lack of education. An 1882 law banned entry of \"lunatics\" and infectious disease carriers. After President William McKinley was assassinated by an anarchist of immigrant parentage, Congress enacted the Anarchist Exclusion Act in 1901 to exclude known anarchist agitators. A literacy requirement was added in the Immigration Act of 1917.\n\nIn 1921 the United States Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act, which established national immigration quotas. The quotas were based on the number of foreign-born residents of each nationality who were living in the United States as of the 1910 census.\n\nThe crucial 1923 Supreme Court case \"United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind\" created the official stance to classify South Asian Indians as non-white, which at the time allowed Indians who had already been naturalized to be retroactively stripped of their citizenship after prosecutors argued that they had gained their citizenship illegally. The California Alien Land Law of 1913, overturned in 1952 by the holding in Sei Fujii v. California, 38 Cal. 2d 718, and other similar laws prohibited aliens from owning land property, thus effectively stripping Indian Americans of land rights. While the decision was placating Asiatic Exclusion League (AEL) demands, spurned by growing outrage at the Turban Tide/Hindoo Invasion [sic] alongside the pre-existing outrage at the \"Yellow Peril\", and while more recent legislation influenced by the civil-rights movement has removed much of the statutory discrimination against Asians, no case has overturned this 1923 classification.\n\nA more complex quota plan, the National Origins Formula, replaced this \"emergency\" system under the Immigration Act of 1924 (Johnson-Reed Act). The reference census used was changed to that of 1890, which greatly reduced the number of Southern and Eastern European immigrants. An annual ceiling of 154,227 was set for the Eastern Hemisphere. Each country had a quota proportional to its population in the U.S. as of the 1890 census.\n\nIn 1932 President Hoover and the State Department essentially shut down immigration during the Great Depression as immigration went from 236,000 in 1929 to 23,000 in 1933. This was accompanied by voluntary repatriation to Europe and Mexico, and coerced repatriation and deportation of between 500,000 and 2 million Mexican Americans, mostly citizens, in the Mexican Repatriation. Total immigration in the decade of 1931 to 1940 was 528,000 averaging less than 53,000 a year.\n\nThe Chinese exclusion laws were repealed in 1943. The Luce-Celler Act of 1946 ended discrimination against Indian Americans and Filipinos, who were accorded the right to naturalization, and allowed a quota of 100 immigrants per year.\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (the McCarran-Walter Act) revised the quotas again, basing them on the 1920 census. For the first time in American history, racial distinctions were omitted from the U.S. Code. As could be expected, most of the quota allocation went to immigrants from Ireland, the United Kingdom and Germany who already had relatives in the United States. The anti-subversive features of this law are still in force.\n\nThe Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments of 1965 (the Hart-Celler Act) abolished the system of national-origin quotas. There was, for the first time, a limitation on Western Hemisphere immigration (120,000 per year), with the Eastern Hemisphere limited to 170,000. The law changed the preference system for immigrants. Specifically, the law provided preference to immigrants with skills needed in the U.S. workforce, refugees and asylum seekers, as well as family members of U.S. citizens. Family reunification became the cornerstone of the bill. \nAt the time, the then-chairman of the Senate Immigration Subcommittee Edward Kennedy remarked that \"the bill will not flood our cities with immigrants. It will not upset the ethnic mix of our society. It will not relax the standards of admission. It will not cause American workers to lose their jobs.\" (U.S. Senate, Subcommittee on Immigration and Naturalization of the Committee on the Judiciary, Washington, D.C., Feb. 10, 1965. pp. 1–3.)\n\nThe Refugee Act of 1980 established policies for refugees, redefining \"refugee\" according to United Nations norms. A target for refugees was set at 50,000 and the worldwide ceiling for immigrants was reduced to 270,000 annually.\n\nIn 1986, the Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA) was passed, creating for the first time penalties for employers who knowingly hired undocumented immigrants. IRCA also contained an amnesty for about 3 million undocumented immigrants already in the United States, and mandated the intensification of some of the activities of the United States Border Patrol or INS (now part of Department of Homeland Security).\n\nThe U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, led by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, ran from 1990 to 1997. The Commission covered many facets of immigration policy, but started from the perception that the \"credibility of immigration policy can be measured by a simple yardstick: people who should get in, do get in; people who should not get in, are kept out; and people who are judged deportable are required to leave\". From there, in a series of four reports, the commission looked at all aspects of immigration policy. In the first, it found that enforcement was lax and needed improvement on the border and internally. For internal enforcement, it recommended that an automated employment verification system be created to enable employers to distinguish between legal and illegal workers. The second report discussed legal immigration issues and suggested that immediate family members and skilled workers receive priority. The third report covered refugee and asylum issues. Finally, the fourth report reiterated the major points of the previous reports and the need for a new immigration policy. Few of these suggestions were implemented.\n\nThe Immigration Act of 1990 (IMMACT) modified and expanded the 1965 act; it significantly increased the total immigration limit to 700,000 and increased visas by 40 percent. Family reunification was retained as the main immigration criterion, with significant increases in employment-related immigration.\n\nSeveral pieces of legislation signed into law in 1996 marked a turn towards harsher policies for both legal and illegal immigrants. The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA) and Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) vastly increased the categories of criminal activity for which immigrants, including green card holders, can be deported and imposed mandatory detention for certain types of deportation cases. As a result, well over 2 million individuals have been deported since 1996.\n\nThe terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 affected American perspectives on many issues, including immigration. A total of 20 foreign terrorists were involved, 19 of whom took part in the attacks that caused the deaths of 2,977 victims, most of them civilians. The terrorists had entered the United States on tourist or student visas. Four of them, however, had violated the terms of their visas. The attack exposed long-standing weaknesses in the U.S. immigration system that included failures in the areas of visa processing, internal enforcement, and information sharing.\n\nThe REAL ID Act of 2005 changed some visa limits, tightened restrictions on asylum applications and made it easier to exclude suspected terrorists, and removed restrictions on building border fences.\n\nIn 2005, Senators John McCain and Ted Kennedy revived the discussion of comprehensive immigration reform with the proposal of the Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act, incorporating legalization, guest worker programs, and enhanced border security. The bill was never voted on in the Senate, but portions are incorporated in later Senate proposals.\n\nIn 2006, the House of Representatives and the Senate produced their own, conflicting bills. In December 2005, the House passed the Border Protection, Anti-terrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005, which was sponsored by Rep. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI). The act was limited to enforcement and focused on both the border and the interior. In the Senate, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 (CIRA) was sponsored by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA) and passed in May 2006. CIRA would have given a path to eventual citizenship to a majority of undocumented immigrants already in the country as well as dramatically increased legal immigration. Although the bills passed their respective chambers, no compromise bill emerged.\n\nIn 2007, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 was discussed in the Senate, which would have given a path to eventual citizenship to a large majority of illegal entrants in the country, significantly increased legal immigration and increased enforcement. The bill failed to pass a cloture vote, essentially killing it.\n\nIndividual components of various reform packages have been separately introduced and pursued in the Congress. The DREAM Act is a bill initially introduced in 2001, incorporated in the various comprehensive reform bills, and then separately reintroduced in 2009 and 2010. The bill would provide legal residency and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who graduate from U.S. high schools and attend college or join the military.\n\nImmigrant visa limits set by Congress remain at 700,000 for the combined categories of employment, family preference, and family immediate. There are additional provisions for diversity and a small number of special visas. In 2008 immigration in these categories totaled slightly less than 750,000 and similar totals (representing maximums allowed by Congress) have been tallied in recent years.\n\nNaturalization numbers have ranged from about 500,000 to just over 1,000,000 per year since the early 1990s, with peak years in 1996 and 2008 each around 1,040,000. These numbers add up to more than the number of visas issued in those years because as many as 2.7 million of those who were granted amnesty by IRCA in 1986 have converted or will convert to citizenship. In general, immigrants become eligible for citizenship after five years of residence. Many do not immediately apply, or do not pass the test on the first attempt. This means that the counts for visas and the counts for naturalization will always remain out of step, though in the long run the naturalizations add up to somewhat less than the visas.\n\nThese numbers are separate from illegal immigration, which peaked at probably over 1 million per year around the year 2000 and has probably declined to about 500,000 per year by 2009, which seems comparable or perhaps less than the outflow returning to their native countries. Some of the legal immigrant categories may include former illegal immigrants who have come current on legal applications and passed background checks; these individuals are included in the count of legal visas, not as a separate or additional number.\n\nFor Mexico and the Philippines, the only categories of immigrant visa available in practice are those for immediate dependent family of U.S. citizens. Persons who applied since 1994 have not been in the categories for adult children and siblings, and trends show that these data are unlikely to change. In fact, the trend has recently been moving in the opposite direction. Immigrant work visas run about 6 to 8 years behind current. While the government does not publish data on the number of pending applications, the evidence is that the backlog in those categories dwarfs the yearly quotas.\n\nLegal immigration visas should not be confused with temporary work permits. Permits for seasonal labor (about 285,000 in 2008) or students (about 917,000 in 2008) generally do not permit conversion to immigrant status. Even those who are legally authorized to work temporarily in the United States (such as H1-B workers) must apply for permanent residence separately, and gain no advantage from their temporary employment authorization. This is unlike many other countries, whose laws provide for permanent residence after a certain number of years of legal employment. Temporary workers, therefore, do not form a distinctly counted source of immigration.\n\nOn April 17, 2013, the so-called \"Gang of Eight\" in the United States Senate introduced S.744, the long-awaited Senate version of the immigration reform bill proposed in Congress.\nText of the proposed legislation was promptly released on the website of Senator Charles Schumer. On June 27, 2013, the Senate passed the bill on 68-32 margin. The bill has not been taken up by the United States House of Representatives.\n\nOn November 21, 2014, president Barack Obama signed two executive actions which had the effect of delaying deportation for millions of illegal immigrants. The orders apply to parents of United States citizens and young people brought into the country illegally.\n\nFor continued executive action see Immigration policy of Donald Trump.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4185572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185572", "title": "Hours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention, 1931", "text": "Hours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention, 1931\n\nHours of Work (Coal Mines) Convention, 1931 was an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1931:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to hours of work in coal mines...\n\nThe convention was never brought into force.\n\nThe principles of the convention were subsequently revised by ILO Convention C46.\n\nThe convention was never brought into force, and it was withdrawn May 30, 2000 at the ILO General Conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "4211316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4211316", "title": "Hours of Work and Manning (Sea) Convention, 1936", "text": "Hours of Work and Manning (Sea) Convention, 1936\n\nThe Convention concerning Hours of Work on Board Ship and Manning or Hours of Work and Manning (Sea) Convention, 1936 is an International Labour Organization Convention which never entered into force. It was established in 1936, and closed for ratification on 24 February 2002, when the 1996 \"Convention concerning Seafarers' Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships\" entered into force.\n\nThe convention was revised by the Convention concerning Wages, Hours of Work on Board Ship and Manning of 1946 as well as its 1949 and 1958 revision, none of which entered into force. The entry into force of the 1996 Convention concerning Seafarers' Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships (which also revised the convention) in 2002 signified the end of the opening for signature of the convention. \n\nThe convention was ratified by three countries, but automatically denounced by two upon entry into force of the 1996 Convention for those countries. The convention is not legally binding upon any state.\n"}
{"id": "19271678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19271678", "title": "Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library", "text": "Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library\n\nKhuda Bakhsh Oriental Library is one of the national libraries of India. It was opened to public on 29 October 1891 by Khan Bahadur Khuda Bakhsh with 4,000 manuscripts, of which he inherited 1,400 from his father Maulvi Mohammed Bakhsh. It is an autonomous organization under Ministry of Culture, Government of India, and is governed by a Board with the Governor of Bihar as its \"ex officio\" Chairman, and is known for its rare collection of Persian and Arabic manuscripts. It also hosts paintings made during the Rajput and Mughal eras of India.\n\nIt is also a designated 'Manuscript Conservation Centre' (MCC) under the National Mission for Manuscripts.\n\nThe library finds its origin in private collection of a bibliophile Mohammad Bakhsh and expanded by his son Khuda Bakhsh, who inherited 1,400 manuscripts and continued to add to the collection and eventually converted it into a private library by 1880. The library was opened to public upon its inauguration by Sir Charles Alfred Elliott, Governor of Bengal on 5 October 1891. After partition in 1947, Dr. S.V. Sohoni played a key role in ensuring that the collections were retained in India. In 1969 through a Federal Legislation, an Act of Parliament, namely 'Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library Act' (1969), the Government of India declared Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library a centre of national importance and government took over the funding, maintenance and development of the library. Today it continues to attract scholars from all over the world.\n\nPast directors of the library have been Dr. Abid Reza Bedar, who after remaining with the Raza Library, came as Director to the institution in 1972, and did some important work towards reviving the library along with his successor Habibur Rehman Chighani, at present the Director of the library is the Dr. Imtiaz Ahmad, since February, 2004. It is on its way to become the country's first library to computerize its hand written collection for universal dissemination., after Retirement Dr. Imtiaz Ahmad Library Ran under without Director.\n\nSome of the notable manuscripts are \"Timur Nama\" (\"Khandan--Timuria\"), \"Shah Nama\", \"Padshah Nama\", \"Diwan-e-Hafiz\" and \"Safinatul Auliya\", carrying the autograph of Mughal Emperors and princes and the book of Military Accounts of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Apart from it the library also has specimens of Mughal paintings, calligraphy and book decoration and Arabic and Urdu manuscripts, including a page of Quran written on deer skin.\n\nThere are 21,136 manuscripts in the library of Arabic, Persian, Urdu, Turkish and Pashto languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7892750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7892750", "title": "Late Corp. of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. United States", "text": "Late Corp. of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. United States\n\nThe Late Corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. United States, 136 U.S. 1 (1890), was a Supreme Court case that upheld the Edmunds–Tucker Act on May 19, 1890. Among other things, the act disincorporated The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).\n\nThe LDS Church was represented by its chief counsel Franklin S. Richards and former congressman James Broadhead.\n\nThe ruling in \"Late Corporation\" would have directed federal escheat of substantially all the property of the legally disincorporated LDS Church, which was estimated at $3 million. Following the decision, the U.S. Attorney for Utah Territory reported seizing only $381,812 in assets. Real property, including LDS temples, was never seized, although the ruling authorized it. Within five months, the LDS Church officially discontinued the practice of plural marriage with the 1890 Manifesto. On October 25, 1893, a congressional resolution authorized the release of assets seized from the LDS Church because, \"said church has discontinued the practice of polygamy and no longer encourages or gives countenance to any manner of practices in violation of law, or contrary to good morals or public policy.\"\n\nChief Justice Fuller's dissent asserted that though Congress has the power to criminalize polygamy, \"it is not authorized under the cover of that power to seize and confiscate the property of persons, individuals, or corporations, without office found, because they may have been guilty of criminal practices.\"\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "28125402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28125402", "title": "Ligado Networks", "text": "Ligado Networks\n\nLigado Networks is an American satellite communications company developing a satellite-terrestrial network to support 5G and Internet of Things applications in North America. The Reston, Virginia-based company has 40 MHz of spectrum licenses in the nationwide block of 1500 MHz to 1700 MHz spectrum in the L-Band. It operates the SkyTerra 1 satellite.\n\nThe company was formerly known as LightSquared, which sought to develop a wholesale 4G LTE wireless broadband communications network integrated with satellite coverage across the United States. Concerns over interference ultimately prevented LightSquared from deploying its planned network. After restructuring, emerging from bankruptcy and modifying its network plan, the new company, Ligado Networks, launched in 2016.\n\nLigado Networks is based out of Reston, Virginia. The company is governed by a seven-member board of directors that includes Chairman Ivan Seidenberg, a former chairman of Verizon Communications; Timothy Donahue, former executive chairman of Sprint Nextel and former president and CEO of Nextel Communications; and former Federal Communications Commission Chairman Reed Hundt. Doug Smith is president and CEO. Fortress Investment Group, LLC, Centerbridge Partners LP and JPMorgan Chase & Co. own controlling stakes in Ligado Networks; Harbinger Capital Partners maintains a minority stake.\n\nLigado Networks has 40 MHz of spectrum licenses in the nationwide block of 1500 MHz to 1700 MHz spectrum in the L-Band. With it, the company is developing a satellite-terrestrial network to support the emerging 5G market and Internet of Things applications.\n\nAs of 2016, Ligado Networks seeks FCC permission for terrestrial deployment of its mid-band spectrum in the 1500 MHz to 1700 MHz range. The company plans to make its spectrum available to industry and government to serve emerging Internet of Things and 5G technologies. The plans have received favorable reviews from organizations including the Competitive Carriers Association, CTIA — The Wireless Association, Public Knowledge and Open Technology Institute at New America, among others.\n\nIn 2010, the company (as LightSquared) acquired licenses to mid-band spectrum when it bought SkyTerra Communications. LightSquared's plans, which did not come to fruition, were to use the spectrum to create a 4G wireless mobile network covering North America.\n\nThe spectrum was originally intended for satellite use only but in 2004 the FCC allowed the spectrum to be augmented with cell towers. This opened the door for potential use on mobile devices. As LightSquared, the company reached a cooperation agreement in 2007 with Inmarsat, a British satellite telecommunications company, that rearranged the L-Band spectrum so the company could use a larger, contiguous stretch of spectrum. Potential interference issues at the time prevented LightSquared from deploying the network.\n\nLigado Networks traces its roots back to 1988 with the company American Mobile Satellite Corporation (which became Motient Corporation), and later as Mobile Satellite Ventures after a merger between Motient Corporation and TMI Communications. The company originally operated two geostationary satellites covering the North American market: MSAT-2, licensed in the United States, launched in 1995; the next year, the company launched MSAT-1, which is licensed in Canada.\n\nMobile Satellite Ventures changed its name to SkyTerra Communications in 2008. LightSquared emerged from SkyTerra after Philip Falcone's Harbinger Capital Partners acquired SkyTerra in March 2010. The company received about $2.9 billion in assets from Harbinger and affiliates, as well as more than $2.3 billion in debt and equity financing. LightSquared sought to develop a 4G LTE wireless broadband network using spectrum in the L-Band. The company's proposed nationwide network would then sell its services wholesale to other service providers, not to retail customers.\n\nThe company launched its SkyTerra 1 satellite from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on November 14, 2010. At its launch, the satellite contained the largest commercial reflector antenna put into service. SkyTerra 1 replaced MSAT-1 and MSAT-2 as most of the data from the company's MSAT satellites relocated to SkyTerra 1.\n\nThe spectrum the company controls was originally set aside for satellite communications only. That changed in 2004 when the FCC granted approval for the company to augment its satellite network with cellphone towers on land. In January 2011, the FCC approved a conditional waiver to allow the company, then called LightSquared, to use its spectrum for land-based-only LTE communications if the company resolved GPS interference. The GPS industry, aviators and military claimed the company's use of its spectrum would interfere with their communications. In February 2012, the FCC proposed to suspend indefinitely the ATC authorization due to the interference issues with satellite services. Three months later, LightSquared filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy.\n\nOn December 7, 2015, the company emerged from bankruptcy as a new company under the control of Centerbridge Partners, Fortress Investment Group and JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Harbinger retained minority ownership. Also in December 2015, the company reached settlements with GPS companies Garmin Ltd., Deere & Co. and Trimble Navigation Ltd. to establish how the company and GPS companies can coexist.\n\nThe company announced its new name, Ligado Networks, on February 10, 2016, derived from the Spanish and Portuguese words for \"connected\". Ligado Networks focuses on using its spectrum to serve the Internet of Things and emerging 5G technologies.\n\nOn March 1, 2001, Ligado Networks' predecessor, Mobile Satellite Ventures applied to the FCC to use a \"combination of spot-beam satellites and terrestrial base stations.\"\n\nOn January 26, 2011, The Federal Communications Commission granted a conditional waiver that allowed LightSquared and its wholesale customers to offer terrestrial-only devices rather than having to incorporate both satellite and terrestrial services. The waiver was conditioned on resolving concerns about interference to GPS.\n\nCompanies that provide global positioning systems, in addition to the United States Air Force, the operator of the GPS system, opposed the FCC waiver, saying that more time was needed to resolve concerns that LightSquared's service might interfere with their satellite-based offerings. LightSquared promised to work with GPS providers and give the FCC monthly updates on a resolution to interference concerns.\n\nIn October 2011, LightSquared threatened to sue the FCC if its network is not approved.\n\nOn February 14, 2012, the FCC initiated proceedings to vacate LightSquared's Conditional Waiver Order based on the NTIA's conclusion that there was currently no practical way to mitigate potential GPS interference.\n\nLightSquared's plan for standalone-terrestrial broadband services met resistance over potential interference issues with GPS systems.\nIn a January 12, 2011, letter to the FCC, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) chief Lawrence Strickling said that LightSquared's hybrid mobile broadband services raise \"significant interference concerns\" and that several federal agencies wanted the FCC to defer action on LightSquared until the concerns were addressed.\n\nOn January 20, 2011, GPS industry representatives sent a letter to the FCC, sharing a study by Garmin International that said \"widespread, severe GPS jamming will occur\" if LightSquared's plans were approved. The study used two GPS models and simulated LightSquared transmitters.\n\nTesting showed that LightSquared's proposed ground-based transmissions could \"overpower\" the fainter GPS signals from space-based satellites. With the band close to those GPS signals, \"GPS devices could pick up the stronger LightSquared signals and become overloaded or saturated\".\n\nOn February 17, 2011, former Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill Lynn, along with the head of the USAF Space Command, Gen. William L. Shelton, expressed concerns about potential GPS interference from the LightSquared network.\n\nOn April 5, 2011, with respect to concerns raised by the U.S. GPS Industry Council and NTIA about LightSquared’s proposed operations, the FCC stated that LightSquared could not commence offering a commercial terrestrial service until the agency concluded that the harmful interference concerns had been resolved.\n\nOn September 15, 2011, Representative Michael Turner (R-Ohio) called for the United States House Oversight and Government Committee to investigate LightSquared under the premise that the Federal Communications Commission waived a rule for LightSquared because of campaign contributions to Democrats. LightSquared officials, who had contributed to both Republicans and Democrats, denied the allegations.\n\nAmong the issues raised was whether political contributors and investors received favorable treatment by President Barack Obama's administration. Before he became president, Senator Obama had invested between $50,000 and $90,000 in SkyTerra, which later became LightSquared. An Air Force General claimed in a closed congressional hearing that he had received political pressure to soften his testimony regarding the negative effects of LightSquared technology. However, the General's spokesperson denied there was any improper influence and said that the general's testimony was reviewed appropriately by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and other executive agencies via the established Office of Management and Budget process.\n\nSen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), a ranking minority member on the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, had also asked Falcone and LightSquared's CEO to disclose their contacts with the FCC, the White House and other government agencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27657066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27657066", "title": "Lisbon Agreement for the Protection of Appellations of Origin and their International Registration", "text": "Lisbon Agreement for the Protection of Appellations of Origin and their International Registration\n\nThe Lisbon Agreement for the Protection of Appellations of Origin and their International Registration, signed on 31 October 1958, ensures that in member countries, appellations of origin receive protection when are protected in their country of origin. It lays down provisions for what qualifies as an appellation of origin, protection measures and establishes an International Register of Appellations of Origin, run by the World Intellectual Property Organization. The agreement came into force in 1966, and was revised at Stockholm (1967) and amended in 1979. As of May 2015, 28 states are party to the convention and 1000 appellations of origin has been registered.\n\nThe agreements establishes a Special Union under Article 19 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (1883). Some aspects of the agreement have been superseded by the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights.\n\nIn May 2015, the Geneva Act to the Agreement was adopted, formally extending protection to Geographical Indication and changing the name: \"Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on Appellations of Origin and Geographical Indications\". The act furthermore allows intergovernmental organisations to be become parties. On 21 May the Act was signed by 13 states: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina Faso, Congo, France, Gabon, Hungary, Mali, Nicaragua, Peru, Romania and Togo.\nThe treaty applies mutually between the parties of the 1958 Lisbon Agreement and the 1967 Stockholm Act, but not between a party solely to the 1958 Agreement and another party solely to the 1967 Stockholm act. The Geneva Act is not in force, but after it enters into force, it will only apply between the Geneva act parties. \nIf a state is a party to multiple Lisbon instruments, then a registered appellation of origin registered under any of the instruments applies also to parties of the other instruments the state is a party to. \n\nGeographic indications\n\n"}
{"id": "1487202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1487202", "title": "List of company registers", "text": "List of company registers\n\nA company register is a register of organizations in the jurisdiction they operate under. The following is an incomplete list of company registers by country:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34351321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34351321", "title": "Lithuanian constitutional referendum, 1992", "text": "Lithuanian constitutional referendum, 1992\n\nA referendum on a new constitution was held in Lithuania on 25 October 1992, alongside the first round of parliamentary elections. It was approved by 78.2% of those voting and 56.8% of all registered voters, passing the 50% threshold.\n"}
{"id": "44034635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44034635", "title": "Louisiana Code of Evidence", "text": "Louisiana Code of Evidence\n\nThe Louisiana Code of Evidence is a code of evidence law, enacted by section 1 of Act 515 of 1988, under Louisiana Civil Law. The Code became effective on 1 January 1989, and governs proceedings in the courts of Louisiana to the extent and with the exceptions stated in Article 1101 of the Code. The Bill for Act 515 of 1988 was Senate Bill 155, introduced by Senator Ben Bagert.\n\nLaws for a code of evidence was introduced in 1818, 1956, 1986, and 1987. After nearly two centuries of failed attempts to codify Louisiana's evidence law, the Louisiana State Legislature enacted an Evidence Code in 1988.\n\nThe evidentiary reform movement began in Britain in the early nineteenth century under the leadership of Jeremy Bentham. \"Within a short time of the publication of Bentham's ‘Theory of Judicial Evidence’ in 1818, Louisiana's Edward Livingston, considered \"America's Bentham\", by Wigmore, prepared and proposed to the Louisiana Legislature a Code of Evidence for this state, designed to govern proceedings in both civil and criminal cases. Had it been adopted, the development of evidence law in the United States might well have been very different. However, the Livingston Evidence Code was not enacted.\n\nBy the middle of the twentieth century, Louisiana evidence law had become notoriously murky and uncertain. This confusion led to a second attempt at codification in 1956. After some ten years of effort, the Louisiana Law Institute abandoned the project, in part because the contending forces simply could not agree.\n\nIn 1979 the quest for an evidence code was renewed by Ben Bagert, a state legislator who was also a lawyer with an active litigation practice. By then, a Federal Code of Evidence had been adopted and Bagert had experienced, first hand, how justice was better served when the court and the litigants had a rule book to guide them. Because Bagert believed that these benefits were achievable in state court proceedings, he persuaded the Legislature to direct that a code of evidence be drafted. Following this directive, the Louisiana Law Institute again accepted the challenge of compiling a code and a proposal was published and submitted to the legislature in 1986. As with the Livingston Code and the 1956 attempt by the Law Institute, the Proposed Code proved controversial. What the plaintiff bar liked, the defense bar disliked. What prosecutors abhorred, criminal defense lawyers applauded. The Proposed Code did not come out of committee in the 1986 legislature. In the 1987 session, another stalemate blocked the adoption of Bagert’s bill proposing an Evidence Code.\n\nObservers of the legislature were predicting a similar fate for the Proposed Code in the 1988 legislative session; however, as lead author of the bill, Bagert had been conducting frequent meetings with the competing forces who had doomed the codes of prior years. On the night before his bill was to be considered by Senate Committee, Senator Bagert, sensing that a compromise was achievable, convened a meeting of opposing factions in the Senate basement. In attendance besides Senator Bagert were Kerry Triche, of the Louisiana Law Institute; Jack Martzell, of the Louisiana Trial Lawyers Association; John Mamoulides and Bernie Boudreaux, district attorneys representing the District Attorneys Association; and Robert Glass, Frank Desalvo, James E. Boren, and John Reed, eminent criminal defense lawyers. Just before midnight a compromise was achieved and additional amendments were drafted for consideration by the committee when morning arrived.\n\nOn the ensuing day, legislative observers were stunned to see that the competing adversaries had agreed to the enactment of an evidence code as amended. After the compromise, Senator Bagert’s bill was enacted by the legislature and signed into law by Governor Buddy Roemer.\n\n"}
{"id": "29580620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29580620", "title": "Metalaw", "text": "Metalaw\n\nMetalaw is “the entire sum of legal rules regulating relationships between different races in the universe.” It is a concept of space law closely related to the scientific Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI). The idea is an elaboration of Immanuel Kant's Categorical imperative \"Act only according to that maxim whereby you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law.\"\n\nFirst articulated by attorney Andrew G. Haley in 1956, Metalaw was the term Haley coined to refer to his hypothesis regarding the proposed existence of fundamental legal precepts of theoretically universal application to all intelligences, both human and hypothesized intelligent extraterrestrial life. Writer Frank G. Anderson proposed that the definition be expanded to cover all intelligent species,extraterrestrial and terrestrial - which would include any/all intelligent animal life.\n\nIn 1956, Haley first published an article entitled “Space Law and Metalaw – A Synoptic View,” in which Haley first proposed what he called an “Interstellar Golden Rule”: Do unto others as they would have you do unto them. According to Haley, humans can project only one principle of human law onto our possible future relations with extraterrestrial intelligence: “the stark concept of absolute equity.” Haley developed his formulation of Metalaw somewhat further in various papers and a 1963 book.\n\nSignificant elaboration of Haley's ideas did not take place until the publication in 1970 of \"Relations with Alien Intelligences: The Scientific Basis of Metalaw\", written by Dr. Ernst Fasan.\n\nIn \"Relations with Alien Intelligences\", Fasan proposed Metalaw is “the entire sum of legal rules regulating relationships between different races in the universe.” Metalaw is the “first and basic ‘law’ between races” providing the “ground rules” for a relationship if and when humans establish communication with or encounter an intelligent extraterrestrial race elsewhere in the universe. Fasan asserted that these rules would govern both human conduct and that of extraterrestrial races so as to avoid mutually harmful activities.\n\nIn later papers published in the 1990s that more directly related Metalaw to SETI, Fasan proposed a simple 3-prong formula of metalegal principles. That formula involves:\n\n\nSeveral authors have criticized the metalegal principles proposed by Haley and Fasan for their reliance on Immanuel Kant’s Categorical Imperative and on an approach to legal science and jurisprudence known as natural law theory. In jurisprudence, natural law theory refers generally to the view that links law to morality and proposes that just laws are immanent in nature and independent of the lawgiver, waiting to be discovered or found (as opposed to created by humans), usually by means of reason alone.\n\nOther commentators have noted that Haley’s formulation of Metalaw depends heavily upon subjective or relative (and therefore inadequate) concepts of “good” and “bad.” Critics have noted that there is no guarantee that other civilizations would abide by Haley’s assertions regarding equity among intelligent races in the universe. Haley’s failure to acknowledge the obvious anthropocentric limits of natural law theory has led some to note that the cultural concept of rules or law is itself anthropocentric.\n\nIn \"Have Space Suit -- Will Travel\", a 1958 story by science fiction author Robert A. Heinlein and published two years after Haley's 1956 paper, one of the characters mentions “space law and meta-law.\"\n\nG. Harry Stine (under his pen-name Lee Correy) wrote a short novel on the topic - \"A Matter of Metalaw\" (DAW_Books, October 1986).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38537138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38537138", "title": "Military divorce", "text": "Military divorce\n\nMilitary divorce is a specific type of divorce that arises when one or both partners are members of the military. Although typically an uncontested divorce, military divorces are different because they require additional requirements to be fulfilled. Divorces occur less frequently than within the civilian population. They present a special set of challenges that make military divorces more complicated than a typical divorce. For example, The Federal Service Members Civil Relief Act of 2003 requires any person seeking a divorce to state that their spouse is or is not currently a member of the United States armed forces. This is meant to prevent spouses from seeking divorces from service members who would be unable to attend divorce proceedings.\n\nA common challenge presented by military divorce is jurisdiction - where the divorce should be filed if the service member isn't at home. A divorce may be filed at home or where the military member is stationed, both in the United States or abroad.\n\nCalculating the income of a member of the military requires specific knowledge and expertise, as service members are paid in a number of ways, including basic allowances for housing, expenses, and their basic pay.\n\nA servicemember who has served 20 years is entitled to receive a military retirement. Per the Uniformed Services Former Spouses' Protection Act. State courts may but are not required to divide a servicemember’s “disposable retired pay” upon dissolution, according to that court's domestic relations laws.\n\nJurisdiction over a service member is a prerequisite for dividing a military retirement. This jurisdiction is more than simply personal jurisdiction through service of process – it requires either residence within the state not due to military orders, domicile in the state, or the service member’s consent.\n\n“Disposable retired pay” is defined as the gross retired pay minus (A) payments back to the United States for prior military retirement overpayments and for recoupments required by law resulting from entitlement to retired pay, (B) court-martial forfeitures, (C) pay waived to receive disability payments from the Veterans Administration (VA), and (D) the Survivor Benefit Plan premium costs for a spouse or former spouse paid pursuant to court order.\n\n\"While the Uniformed Services Former Spouses Protection Act does not specify a minimum duration of marriage in order to divide retirement, former spouses who wish to receive their share of the retirement directly from the Defense Finance and Accounting Service must have at least 10 years of marriage overlapping the military service.\nIf retirement pay is determined to be at least partially a marital asset, DoD Regulation 7000.14-R Para 290601(C) (backed up by 10 USC 1447-1455) requires that division orders specify a dollar amount of award or a percentage of retirement pay with no offsets or set asides. The only way to specify the correct percentage when there have been promotions after the divorce is via the DFAS Hypothetical Method or the Dual Coverture Value (DCV) Method (which is also called the \"Area Method\" (AM) because of the way it shows on an area diagram). The first involves a sequential process and the second involves a formula based on your circumstance, and handles many more circumstances of life, and correctly handles Reserve military members. All three methods give the same result, and 6 years after they were published, the promotion enhancement set-aside was embodied in Federal law with NDAA 2017 Sec 641. More than 20 attorney guides, whitepapers, and spreadsheet calculation aids are available from 10+ years of research in this area by a PhD analyst.\n\nIf a military member is promoted after divorce, the promotion enhancement due to retirement would be a non-marital asset as recommended by a Department of Defense report to Congress about the USFSPA law. Courts have struggled to understand how to implement this. The result is that many times the military member's promotion enhancements, due to sole effort after the divorce, are divided to the ex-spouse. The Area Method is a straightforward method to equitably divide retirement pay in this situation for an Active Duty or Reserve retirement.\n\nFor Reserve military officers, a retention benefit program was implemented providing possible early retirement if certain types of duty is done after January 28, 2008. This benefit does not cause the amount of retirement checks to increase, but it can cause an increase to the number of retirement checks to be paid prior to age 60. If a marriage was entirely prior to January 28, 2008, all of the extra checks should equitably belong to the military member, and a division order needs to state this. If a marriage was entirely after January 28, 2008, all of the extra checks should be divided in the same manner as the payments at age 60 and beyond. If a marriage spans that date, the extra checks must be divided with a different percentage. See specific details on a web page about unique Reserve military issues.\n\nA Supreme Court decision prohibits states from dividing VA disability payments. However, this does not preclude a state from ordering indemnity payments from a retiree who waives retired pay to receive VA disability after a decree of dissolution has issued. In the State of Michigan, an Appellate court has ruled that any offset or indemnity is in violation of the Federal intent of preserving value for the military member, and hence offsets or indemnities are not allowed. Quoting three paragraphs from the King decision,\n\n\"The substantive question in this case is whether the Uniformed Services Former Spouses' Protection Act, 10 USC 1401 et seq., and the supremacy clause of the federal constitution, US Const, art VI, [**564] prevent a state court from treating a military disability pension as a distributable marital asset.\"\n\n“The court concluded that the trial court was precluded from considering the ex-husband's military disability pension as a marital asset and had improperly awarded the ex-wife one-half the value of the ex-husband's military disability pension. The court agreed with the ex-husband that his military pension could not be considered \"directly or indirectly\" in the distribution of the marital property.”\n\n\"[***7] [**565] In McCarty, the Supreme Court clearly held [*500] that a retirement pension could not be distributed as a marital asset. In a footnote, the Court noted that this prohibition is not to be circumvented by an \"off-setting award\". 453 U.S. 228-229, fn 22. Although McCarty has been overruled by 10 USC 1408, its rationale applies here since 10 USC 1408 does not allow distribution of a disability pension. Thus, we agree with defendant that his military pension may not be considered \"directly or indirectly\" in the distribution of the marital property. Cf. Kendall v Kendall, 106 Mich App 240, 243-244; 307 NW2d 457 (1981).\"\n\nServicemembers have different rules and regulations with regards to taxes that make child support a more complicated process. Because some military income and deployment benefits are not taxable, a court must decided to levy obligations based on pre-tax income or post-tax income.\n\nThe Servicemembers Civil Relief Act protects military servicemembers from being sued while on duty and up to one year following service. This may present a challenge for the plaintiff when suing a member of the military for child support or other financial support.\n"}
{"id": "2064123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064123", "title": "Military police vehicle", "text": "Military police vehicle\n\nA military police vehicle is any vehicle used by military police (MPs).\n\nWhen forward deployed, United States military police units customarily employ HMMWVs or internal security vehicles called the M1117 Armored Security Vehicle. However, on larger installations, MPs assigned to on-post law enforcement duties may use military or civilian 4x4 vehicles. When operating at installations in the U.S., military police typically employ patrol cars similar to local police departments. Special agents of the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command or other military special investigation branches, may employ unmarked civilian vehicles in the course of their duties within the United States. These would often be the detective's own private car. In combat zones, these agents employ the same tactical vehicles as regular military police units.\n\nWhen in the field, members of the British Army's Royal Military Police, Royal Air Force Police, and Royal Navy Police use Land Rovers with typical police equipment and signs reading \"MILITARY POLICE\". When in garrison or on-shore, they use regular civilian-type patrol cars, but with appropriate RMP, RAFP or RNP markings. In the United Kingdom these tend to be Vauxhall Vectras, Corsas and Astras, Škoda Superbs, Ford Fiestas, Vauxhall Vivaro vans, and Honda motorbikes. Special units such as the Special Investigation Branch may utilize unmarked patrol cars from time to time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46452425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46452425", "title": "Mothers and Fathers Matter", "text": "Mothers and Fathers Matter\n\nMothers and Fathers Matter (MFM) was a campaign group in Ireland which was formed in September 2014 to oppose the Children and Family Relationships Bill. MFM also opposed the Thirty-fourth Amendment of the Constitution (Marriage Equality) Bill 2015.\n\nMembers and spokespeople for MFM included Keith Mills, “lawyer” Evana Kirrane Boyle, Tom Finegan, anti-abortion campaigner Kate Bopp, ecologist Sam Shepard and David Quinn, of the self-styled Iona Institute pressure group. The group was chaired by economist Ray Kinsella.\n\nMFM opposed the enactment of the Children and Family Relationships Bill, which amended family law in Ireland to extend parental rights and responsibilities to non-traditional families, simplified adoption rights for the spouse or civil partner of a biological parent, and for a long-term domestic partner, and also addressed donor-assisted reproduction (sperm donation and egg donation). The group believed the legislation could, in some cases, deprive a child of a mother and father, and turned donor eggs into a commodity.\n\nIn February 2015, the group demonstrated outside Dáil Éireann against the Bill, which was approved by the Dáil on 12 March 2015 and signed into law on 6 April 2015. MFM subsequently said it was planning a legal challenge to the act.\n\nMFM launched its campaign against the 2015 Marriage Referendum on 18 April 2015. At its launch, the group were challenged to produce research to back their claims and promised to publish any research in dispute on their website. They failed to do so, and their claims have since been proven false. UNICEF criticised the group for misinterpreting its research data.\n\nOn Saturday 25 April 2015, MFM hosted a conference in the Marino Institute of Education with speakers advocating the retention of the current definition of marriage. On Friday 1 May 2015, Keith Mills represented MFM on a debate on the referendum on RTÉ's \"The Late Late Show\".\n\nOn 13 May 2015, Irish historian Professor John A Murphy wrote a letter to The Irish Times in which he described the constitutional amendment, which permitted same sex marriage and extended constitutional protection to families based on such marriages, as \"grotesque nonsense.\" Following this, MFM Advisory Committee member, David Quinn, tweeted \"Proposed change to marriage 'grotesque nonsense' ... Great letter by Prof John A Murphy in @IrishTimes today.\" Mr Quinn was criticised for this tweet by Irish LGBT rights activist Panti, who wrote: \"I can think of lots of things that are grotesque. Extending constitutional protection to all families is not one of them... I would call it 'fair', 'reasonable', 'compassionate', 'considerate', 'respectful', or even 'the very least we can do'. But not 'grotesque'.\"\n\nOn 16 May 2015, MFM spokesperson Evana Boyle gave an interview to \"The Washington Post\": Boyle, a lawyer and a mother of four, said her side is counting on a backlash to a new era in which homosexuality has become “normalized.” When even Catholic schools plan lessons around LGBT Awareness Week, she said, she needs to be on guard against attempts to indoctrinate her own children. “The idea of having two dads, they just go, ‘Eww, that’s not right,’ ” she said.\n\nIn June 2015, the MFM Facebook page was deactivated.\n\nThe 'No' posters published by MFM during the Marriage Equality campaign were widely criticised as an attempt to sow confusion and to conflate different issues (such as surrogacy) with the Marriage Equality Referendum. On 24 April 2015, an Irish Times journalist, Conor Pope, filmed and confronted individuals who were removing some of the group's posters from Gardiner Street. Responding, the Yes Equality campaign condemned the removal of any posters, but pointed out that their canvassers had also been abused and threatened. One Dublin hotel (notorious for courting publicity) offered a discount to guests who took down 'No' posters.\n\nSome claimed that the 'No' posters were insulting to single parents, adoptive parents and heterosexual and same-sex parents who had availed of assisted human reproduction. One such mother said \"The poster is nonsense – it implies that surrogacy is simply for same-sex couples. There are many parents, myself included, that have had children thanks to the help of other people. To say that I am not the mother of my children because I could not biologically carry them is an insulting suggestion, and one that is clearly aimed at shaming families that do not conform to this group’s narrow view of what constitutes a family.” Tánaiste Joan Burton described the posters as \"demeaning\", saying \"The notion that people who have been raised in anything other than the kind of perfect family situation that the No people describe, frankly, I find it undermining of people in a way I think is regrettable.\"\n\nIn early May 2015, the couple featured in the stock photos used on MFM posters denounced the use of their image in the No campaign. Releasing a statement through Amnesty International, they said \"We completely support same-sex marriage, and we believe that same-sex couples should, of course, be able to adopt, as we believe that they are equally able to provide children with much-needed love and care. To suggest otherwise is offensive to us, and to many others.\"\n\nOn 7 May, the retired Archdeacon of Dublin, Gordon Linney, described the posters as homophobic, saying that the posters' \"real target is gay people and a crude attempt to discredit them as suitable parents. This is where we can talk candidly about homophobia because the implication is that gay people are at best incapable of caring for children or at worst a danger to children.\"\n\nThe independent Referendum Commission received \"dozens\" of complaints about the posters, and pointed to a statement on their website on the question, which reads \"The Children and Family Relationships Act 2015 deals with parentage in the cases of donor–assisted births but not with surrogacy. The Act has been passed and will be enacted regardless of the outcome of the marriage equality referendum.\" They added \"In view of the number of complaints regarding the surrogacy poster, the Commission may comment further in the coming weeks.\" Carol Coulter, former \"Irish Times\" legal affairs editor and director of the child care law reporting project, also wrote that the referendum had nothing to do with surrogacy, and pointed out that where it was legal, such as in the UK, it was mostly availed of by heterosexual, married couples.\n\n"}
{"id": "6962856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6962856", "title": "NLA media access", "text": "NLA media access\n\nNLA media access (often shortened to the NLA) is the collecting society for UK newspapers, a privately owned limited company. It undertakes collective rights management on behalf of its members and licenses companies, such as press cuttings agencies and media monitoring firms.\n\nThe NLA was founded in 1996 by the following eight UK national newspaper publishers, who are equal shareholders:\n\n\nNLA media access distributes over £22m each year to national and regional newspapers in respect of copyright works. In 2009 NLA media access licensed over 1000m copies of newspaper cuttings from more than 1,400 titles and collected licence fees from over 8300 licensees (representing over 150,000 organisations).\n\nIn 2006 the NLA launched eClips, an online database of newspaper cuttings. In 2008, it launched ClipSearch, allowing anyone to search and retrieve original newspaper articles from around the UK, updated 72 hours after publication. In 2009, it introduced Newspapers for Schools, to encourage and ease the access of newspaper material to schools throughout the UK. NLA media access also supports the Journalism Diversity Fund which provides bursaries to students from ethnically and socially diverse backgrounds looking to train as journalists.\n\nIn 2010, NLA media access introduced a licence covering media monitoring services which crawl sites and offer paid-for services based on its filtered results. Relevant results are shown to clients who pay Meltwater but do not themselves have a licence from a newspaper company or copyright service to read the original mention. The case revolved around whether a client lacking a licence would infringe copyright by being shown, and viewing, the extracts from copyrighted material in this way (it was common ground that to subsequently view a full article would require a licence). The majority of media monitoring agencies signed up for the new NLA web licence with the exception of Meltwater Group who argued no licence was required by its clients for this purpose, and in conjunction with the PRCA referred the scheme to the Copyright Tribunal, and the matter was escalated.\n\nIn May 2010 the NLA announced action in the High Court and on 26 November the High Court ruled in favour of the NLA. The case was appealed and heard by the UK's Court of Appeal in June 2011. They upheld the decision in the High Court case, implying that most (if not all) businesses subscribing to a media monitoring service that contains content from online newspapers would require a licence.\n\nHowever this was reversed by the UK Supreme Court in 2013, who ruled Meltwater's activities legal, subject to certain questions referred to the European Court of Justice and intended to clarify matters of a cross-border nature. The rationale was that viewing of copyright works was not, and had never been, illegal in either the UK or European law, and Article 5.1 of the European Directive Directive 2001/29/EC (which covers \"temporary copies\"]) permitted automated copying of a temporary nature for a lawful purpose. As mere viewing by Meltware's clients was lawful under UK and EU law, the technical creation of cached copies to enable and facilitate this were also lawful.\n\nOn 5 June 2014 the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg ruled in favour of the PRCA and found that browsing and viewing articles online does not require authorisation from the copyright holder.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "25898080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25898080", "title": "Netherlands–Venezuela Boundary Treaty", "text": "Netherlands–Venezuela Boundary Treaty\n\nThe Netherlands–Venezuela Boundary Treaty is a 1978 treaty between territory of the Netherlands and Venezuela which delimits the maritime boundary between territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Venezuelan territory. When the treaty was concluded in 1978, the treaty set out the boundary between what was known as the Netherlands Antilles and Venezuela. Today, it establishes the boundary between Aruba and Venezuela, between Curaçao and Venezuela, and between the BES islands and Venezuela.\n\nThe treaty was signed on 31 March 1978. The text of the treaty establishes a complex border that is set out in four individual maritime sectors. Sector A creates the boundary between the ocean west of Aruba and Venezuelan territory. Sector B creates the boundary between the Venezuelan mainland and the Leeward Islands of the Netherlands Antilles (including Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao). Sector C creates the boundary between Bonaire and Venezuelan territory. Finally, further north, Sector D creates the boundary between Isla Aves (Venezuela) and Saba and Sint Eustatius (Netherlands Antilles). The far eastern point of Sector C and the far western point of Sector D are connected by the west–east United States – Venezuela boundary, which was agreed to in the United States – Venezuela Maritime Boundary Treaty, signed just days before the Netherlands–Venezuela treaty.\n\nIn places, the boundary lines were adjusted from the natural equidistant lines because of considerations of the placement of oilfields and other mineral deposits in the area.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Boundary Delimitation Treaty between the Republic of Venezuela and the Kingdom of the Netherlands\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34383668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34383668", "title": "Nominate contract", "text": "Nominate contract\n\nIn civil law jurisdictions, a nominate contract is a standardized contractual relationship that has a special designation attached to it (e.g., purchase and sale, lease, loan, insurance), as opposed to innominate contracts (which are not standardized and therefore have no set name). The obligor and obligee have rights and obligations specially prescribed by law. Nominate contracts are usually statutorily required to include certain express terms (\"essentialia\")—depending on their kind—and are construed to include terms implied in law.\n\nIn Quebec, Book V of the Civil Code deals with Obligations, Title II deals with nominate contracts. It is further subdivided into various chapters, dealing with several types of nominate contracts (sale, gift, lease, insurance).\n"}
{"id": "22526685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22526685", "title": "Paul Comly French", "text": "Paul Comly French\n\nPaul Comly French (March 19, 1903 – June 3, 1960) was an American reporter, writer, anti-war activist and non-profit executive.\n\nPaul C. French was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to a Quaker family. He was a writer for \"The Philadelphia Record\" newspaper. He was married twice; first to Marie who died in 1943 and left him with two sons Paul and Peter. His second wife was Dorothy, with whom he had a son Bruce and daughter Susan. His brother Charles C. French was also a writer and a professor.\n\nHe served for a time as Smedley Butler's personal secretary in Philadelphia.\n\nAs a reporter he covered the Lindbergh kidnapping for the Philadelphia Record in 1932.\nIt was to French, who was then writing both for the Record and the New York Post, that former General Butler in 1934 shared his allegations of a Business Plot to depose President Roosevelt.\n\nFrench was initially the assistant to the first director of the Pennsylvania Writers Project (PWP), Logan B. Sisson. The project began in July 1935. French replaced Sisson within the year.\n\nFrench’s term was marred by an acrimonious relationship with Henry Alsberg the national director of the Federal Writers Project and, among all the state directors, was one of the few to constantly balk at the editorial dictates of the Washington staff. In a letter dated June 23, 1939, French appealed to the executive director of Pennsylvania’s Historical Commission, Maj. Frank Melvin, for assistance in convincing Alsberg to finally publish the state’s guide. He accused the national office of being overly concerned with details, citing “the copy cannot be considered final because our margins are an inch and a quarter, instead of an inch, and our indents for paragraphs are ten rather than five spaces.” French was also unable to broker a truce between the Newspaper Guild and the Writers Union, two leftwing labor organizations with writers on the PWP staff that eventually conspired to oust French in 1939.\n\nBy the summer of 1939, shifting political winds had left the Federal Writers Project out to dry. The previous year, both the Dies Committee to Investigate Un-American Activities and the House appropriations committee attacked the Federal Writers Project for being a hotbed of Communism, accusations based mainly on the radical leanings of some writers in the project’s frenetic New York City office. Alsberg successfully defended the FWP from the trumped-up charges, but negative publicity during the hearings left a bitter aftertaste in the public’s mind.\n\nHe was the first Executive Secretary for the National Service Board for Religious Objection and served from 1940 until 1947. The National Service Board for Religious Objectors (NSBRO) was a voluntary association of religious organizations which acted as a voice for the churches and conscientious objectors to the Selective Service System in the United States in matters regarding the administration of the draft of conscientious objectors. It was created on 26 November 1940 as a merger of the short-lived National Council for Religious Objectors (NCRO) with the Civilian Service Board. The NCRO had been established on 11 October 1940 by joint action of the Mennonite Central Committee, the American Friends Service Committee, and the Brethren Service Committee.\n\nThe function of the NSBRO was to serve as the liaison between the churches and other groups having conscientious objectors to military service among their members. Although it did not administer any Civilian Public Service (CPS) projects or camps, it performed a valuable service. It was not the sole channel to the National Selective Service office for those groups who administered CPS, since they could and did on occasion deal directly with Selective Service, but it nevertheless carried most of the liaison work. For this purpose it was organized into the following sections: Camp Section, Complaint Section, and Assignment Section. The Camp Section worked in connection with the selection of sites for CPS camps; the Complaint Section helped men who were not properly classified or were denied their claim to conscientious objector status; the Assignment Section was the channel for transmitting the assignment to the proper CPS camp for the COs who were being drafted.\n\nIn 1947 French became executive director of CARE after having served as general manager for several months. CARE (originally \"Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe\", and later \"Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere\"), was founded in 1945 with the idea to secure financial backing for overseas food relief packages for a devastated Europe. The relief came in \"CARE Packages\", which were U.S. Army surplus 10-in-1 food parcels left over from the planned U.S. invasion of Japan. The service let Americans send the packages to friends and families in Europe. Each CARE Package cost $10 and was guaranteed to reach its addressee within four months. In 1955 Paul French left CARE and founded a new non-profit organization called World.Inc. Paul French died on June 3, 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11610772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11610772", "title": "Paula Franzese", "text": "Paula Franzese\n\nPaula Ann Franzese is an American legal scholar based in New Jersey who focuses on government ethics and property law. She is the Peter W. Rodino Professor of Law at the Seton Hall University School of Law. Franzese is an award-winning educator who has been named one of the 26 best law teachers in the United States. She is also a prominent advocate for government ethics reform, a spokesperson for legal education, a housing advocate, and an author.\n\nFranzese graduated \"summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa,\" with a Bachelor's degree from Barnard College, Columbia University. Franzese received a Juris Doctor degree from Columbia Law School and won several academic prizes, including the Rosenman Prize for excellence in public law courses. After graduating she clerked for New Jersey Supreme Court Justice Alan B. Handler. She then worked as a litigator with Cahill Gordon & Reindel in New York City alongside First Amendment lawyer Floyd Abrams and served as a member of the New York City Housing Court reform project. Franzese became a professor of law at Seton Hall Law School in 1986, and she later became the Peter W. Rodino Professor of Law at Seton Hall.\n\nFranzese’s scholarship focuses on two main areas of the law: government ethics and property law. Her research into property law includes landlord-tenant reform, common interest communities including homeowners' boards, and affordable housing, including a legal analysis of the Mount Laurel doctrine. In addition to her scholarship, Franzese wrote two general-purpose guidebooks for students, including \"A Short & Happy Guide To Being A College Student\" and \"A Short & Happy Guide To Being A Law Student.\" Franzese has advocated for a right to counsel for low-income tenants facing eviction and moderated fair housing programs. She is the current chair of the New Jersey State Bar Association Commission on Professionalism.\n\nFranzese has written about the law as an instrument for social justice in the \"New Jersey Law Journal\", has received national attention for her scholarship on the struggles of indigent tenants, and has been the recipient of numerous honors and awards, including the 2017 Justice Marie Garibaldi Award for Distinguished Service and Excellence. Her research and recommendations have been used by legislatures to formulate key ethics reform legislation.\n\nFranzese was featured as one of the 26 best law teachers in the nation in the book \"What the Best Law Teachers Do\". She also lectured for ten years at BarBri, a bar-exam preparation firm, serving as its national lecturer on property law. Franzese urges that law professors emphasize a \"conceptual, contextual and empathetic understanding\". Franzese encourages law students to have empathy with others as a way of better understanding the law and becoming more effective lawyers. She has written on the benefits of a law degree and reasons to go to law school.\n\nFranzese is an advocate of ethics reform. She has served with three governors of New Jersey—Governors Christine Todd Whitman, Richard Codey and Jon Corzine—on ethics-related commissions. Her ethics reform work led to the promulgation of major legislative reforms, including the Uniform Ethics Code.\n\nIn 2014 and again in 2016, Franzese criticized the administration of New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, stating that officials in the administration conflated their official duties with campaign efforts.\n\nLaw Review Articles:\n\n\nBooks/Book Chapters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8366458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8366458", "title": "Police Act 1946", "text": "Police Act 1946\n\nThe Police Act 1946 (1946 c.46) was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that provided for the amalgamation of smaller borough police forces with county constabularies in England and Wales, allowed for the merger of county forces in certain circumstances and changed the boundaries of the Metropolitan Police District.\n\nThe appointed day for the amalgamations was 1 April 1947. On that date forty-five non-county borough police forces were merged with those of the counties in which they were situated. In the case of fourteen of these boroughs, they had already been temporarily placed under the county police by the Defence (Amalgamation of Police Forces) Regulations 1942. Section 13 of the 1946 Act made these amalgamations permanent. One non-county borough force, Cambridge City Police, was allowed to continue, the city having a larger population than the surrounding county. The Act made similar provision for Peterborough City Police, although in the event it formed a combined force with the Soke of Peterborough.\n\nFollowing the 1947 mergers there were 133 police forces covering England and Wales:\n† The actual number was 53, as the Lincolnshire Constabulary was jointly maintained by three counties.\nSection 3 of the Act allowed for the voluntary amalgamation of county and county borough forces, while Section 4 gave the Home Secretary the power to make amalgamation schemes of constabularies.\n\nSection 16 provided for the \"rectification\" of the Metropolitan Police District, realigning it with contemporary local government boundaries.\n\nSection 18 placed the Isles of Scilly under the Cornwall County Constabulary\n\n\nThe Home Secretary's powers under Section 4 of the Act were used on a number of occasions:\n"}
{"id": "26769877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769877", "title": "Proactive policing", "text": "Proactive policing\n\nProactive policing is the practice of deterring criminal activity by showing police presence and engaging the public to learn their concerns, thereby preventing crime from taking place in the first place. In contrast, responding to a complaint after a crime has been committed is reactive policing.\n\nAccording to a 2017 report by the National Academy of Sciences, there is \"evidence that a number of proactive policing practices are successful in reducing crime and disorder, at least in the short term, and that most of these strategies do not harm communities' attitudes toward police. However, the effects of proactive policing on other important outcomes—such as on the legality of police behavior and on racially biased behavior—are unclear because of gaps in research... Moreover, evidence on many proactive strategies is limited to near-term, localized impacts. Little is known about the strategies' long-term effects on crime or other outcomes, and about whether and to what extent they will offer crime control benefits at a larger jurisdictional level—for example, across an entire precinct or city.\"\n\nIndividual officers wields an enormous amount of discretion in enforcing the law (esp, non-dispatched runs like traffic enforcement or street crime). What is surprising is the public belief that police are usually eager and motivated to do their job. Thus, when a particular crime problem becomes apparent, it is often approached by monetary related arguments, such as the need for more police, equipment, training etc.; rather than by non-monetary related approaches, such as recognizing how a high perception of alienation among police officers from the citizens of the community where they patrol reduces morale and spawns police indifference, inactivity, and apathy.\n\nThe impact of alienation is especially relevant as the contemporary community policing movement emphasizes proactive law enforcement strategies. Effective community policing requires that police officers work closely with local citizens in designing and implementing a variety of proactive crime prevention and control measures. To accomplish these initiatives, it is crucial that officers feel closely integrated with the majority of citizens in the community they serve. Typically, this means that officers perceive themselves as sharing important community values and beliefs and \"being confident of community support\" in the decisions they make.\n\nAs the perception of community alienation increases among police officers, their sense of confidence or mastery in decision making will decrease, and so too their motivation for proactive enforcement. The impact of highly publicized \"pro-police\" verdicts of brutality incidents (i.e., Rodney King, Los Angeles 1991; Malice Green, Detroit 1992; O.J. Simpson, Los Angeles 1994; Michael Brown, Ferguson 2014; Eric Garner, New York 2014; and Freddie Gray, Baltimore 2015) are related to the level of perceived alienation experienced by police and thus their willingness to respond proactively to serious crime. FBI Director James Comey and DEA chief Chuck Rosenberg suggested the \"Ferguson effect\" as the cause to recent spikes in crime in several large cities, especially Baltimore, Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Louis.\n\nEssentially a sociological concept developed by several classical and contemporary theorists, alienation is a condition in social relationships reflected by a low degree of integration or common values and a high degree of distance or isolation between individuals, or between an individual and a group of people in a community or work environment. Alienation is closely aligned with the concept of mastery. Mastery is typically defined as a state of mind in which an individual feels autonomous and experiences confidence in his or her ability, skill, and knowledge to control or influence external events. The greater the level of alienation an individual experiences in a community or work setting, the weaker will be their sense of mastery.\n\nFor police officers, a strong sense of mastery is particularly vital in relation to proactive law enforcement. Proactive enforcement is usually defined as the predisposition of a police officer to be actively involved in preventing and investigating crime. Because police patrol work is highly unsupervised, most officers have considerable discretion or personal initiative regarding their level of proactive behavior on the streets. Again, it would seem logical that the stronger the level of perceived community alienation among police officers, the weaker will be their sense of mastery and motivation to engage in proactive law enforcement behavior.\n\nProactive policing is closely related to the practice of community policing. Community policing's goal is \"problem solving.\" Community policing emphasizes proactive enforcement that proposes street crime can be reduced through greater community involvement and integration between citizens and police. Community policing departments and officers must commit time to develop a \"partnership\" with the community to: 1) Prevent and counter crime; 2) Maintain order; and 3) Reduce the fear of crime. Police organization is decentralized with every police officer and detective having a neighborhood to patrol with agreed upon goals and objectives to solve. Police officers must feel integrated with the majority of the citizens of the community where they patrol, and that they perceive themselves as sharing similar values and beliefs so they are confident in their decision making ability. Each police officer must get out of their cars (not just drive by and grin and wave) to visit with citizens and businesses to learn the residents concerns and show they're a friend and protector—in contrast to \"strict law enforcement\" or \"reactive policing\" which doesn't view the citizens as customers.\n\nSome people argue that policing should rightfully be restricted to reactive policing with a corollary that proactive policing is improper, if not illegal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36169092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36169092", "title": "Raymond Frey", "text": "Raymond Frey\n\nRaymond G. Frey (; 1941–2012) was a Professor of Philosophy at Bowling Green State University, specializing in moral, political and legal philosophy, and author or editor of a number of books, including \"Interests and Rights: The Case Against Animals\" (1980), \"Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide\" (1998, with Gerald Dworkin and Sissela Bok), and \"The Oxford Handbook of Animal Ethics\" (2011, with Tom Beauchamp, eds.).\n\nFrey obtained his B.A. in philosophy in 1966 from The College of William and Mary, his M.A. in 1968 from the University of Virginia, and his D.Phil. in 1974 from the University of Oxford – where his supervisor was R. M. Hare – for a thesis on \"Rules and Consequences as Grounds for Moral Judgment\".\n\nDavid DeGrazia wrote in 1991 that Frey was one of five authors – along with Peter Singer, Tom Regan, Mary Midgley, and Steve Sapontzis – who had made significant philosophical contributions to the work of placing animals within ethical theory.\n\nFrey writes from a preference utilitarian perspective, as does Singer. Preference utilitarianism defines an act as good insofar as it fulfills the preferences (interests) of the greatest number. In his early work, \"Interests and Rights\" (1980), Frey disagreed with Singer – who in his \"Animal Liberation\" (1975) wrote that the interests of nonhuman animals must be included when judging the consequences of an act – on the grounds that animals have no interests. Frey argued that interests are dependent on desire, and that one cannot have a desire without a corresponding belief. He argued further that animals have no beliefs because they are unable to comprehend the concept of a belief (that is, they are unable to hold a second-order belief: a belief about a belief), which he argues requires language: \"If someone were to say, e.g. 'The cat believes that the door is locked,' then that person is holding, as I see it, that the cat holds the declarative sentence 'The door is locked' to be true; and I can see no reason whatever for crediting the cat or any other creature which lacks language, including human infants, with entertaining declarative sentences.\" He concludes that animals have no interests.\n\nCounter-arguments include that first-order beliefs may be held in the absence of second-order ones – that is, a non-human animal or human infant might hold a belief while failing to understand the concept of belief — and that human beings could not have developed language in the first place without some pre-verbal beliefs. Frey has since rejected some of his early conclusions. The importance of \"Interests and Rights\", according to DeGrazia, lay in its rigorous treatment of the problem of animal minds and moral status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4043864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043864", "title": "Religion and capital punishment", "text": "Religion and capital punishment\n\nMajor world religions take varied positions on the morality of capital punishment\nand have historically impacted the way in which the government handles punishment practices. Although the viewpoints of some religions have changed over time, its influence on capital punishment generally depends on the existence of a religious moral code and how closely religion influences the government. Religious moral codes are often based on a body of teachings, such as the Old Testament or the Qur'an.\n\nAccording to the Kitab-i-Aqdas, the central book of the Baha'i faith, certain offenses such as murder and arson are punishable by the death penalty with the option of life imprisonment as an alternative. This likely stems from the belief that revenge is forbidden and that people should await the prescribed punishment for their offenses.\n\nBuddhism has a strong belief in compassion for the lives of others, as stated in the panca-sila (five precepts). There is an understanding of healing people who have committed crimes rather than retaliation against them. For these reasons, Buddhism has generally opposed the death penalty.\n\nChristianity has changed its perspective on the death penalty over time and different Christian denominations have different teachings on it. Many early Christians were strongly opposed to the death penalty and magistrates who enforced it could be excommunicated. Attitudes gradually began to relax in the fifth century. In the thirteenth century, Thomas Aquinas argued that capital punishment was a form of \"lawful slaying\", which became the standard Catholic teaching on the issue for centuries. During the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther and John Calvin defended the death penalty, but Quakers, Brethren, and Mennonites have opposed it since their founding. Since the Second Vatican Council, the Roman Catholic Church has generally opposed the death penalty and, in August 2018, Pope Francis revised the Catechism of the Catholic Church to explicitly condemn it in all cases, as an inadmissible attack on the inviolability and dignity of the person.\n\nHinduism has historically not taken a stance on the death penalty and has little influence on the governments opinion of it, but India (an 80% Hindu nation) has the lowest rate of execution of any other country. This is likely due to the Hindu belief in Ahimsa, or non-violence, which became very apparent during Gandhi's time and was supported by India's ancient emperor Ashoka, who was the only leader in the countries history to openly oppose the death penalty.\n\nMany Islamic nations have governments run directly by the code of Sharia law. The Qur'an explicitly states that the taking of a life results in the taking of ones own, leading most Islamic governments to support capital punishment. There are certain actions in Islam, such as adultery, that are recognized to result in the death penalty and the concept of religious \"fatwas\", in which the government allows an individual or a group of people to kill, is found only in Islam. However not all Islamic nations have the death penalty, for example Djibouti is an Islamic abolitionist nation.\n\nJudaism has a history of debate over the death penalty but generally disagrees with the practice. Although the Torah describes over 30 situations where the death penalty would be appropriate, there are many limitations that have made it difficult to implement. Since 1954 Israel has outlawed the use of the death penalty, except for cases of genocide and treason.\n\nThe Baha'i faith is in favor of capital punishment. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the central book of the Bahá'í Faith written by Bahá'u'lláh, includes death by immolation as a potential punishment for murder or arson, along with life imprisonment. The details of capital punishment were not explicitly mentioned and are left up to future society to decide. Details such as severity of the crime and methods of punishment are left up to the Universal House of Justice. Regarding arson, there is a difference in what type of \"house\" is burned. A person may be punished accordingly depending on the structure set on fire.\n\nThe Baha'i faiths views on capital punishment stem from the faiths strong belief in bettering society as a whole. There is a very strong focus on not showing retaliation or getting revenge, but rather that it is the duty of society to punish criminals for the safety of its people. It is believed that constantly building prisons and coming up with ways to punish crimes is instilling the wrong ideas in the people. Instead of focusing on punishing crime and waiting for crime to happen, people should focus their energy on education on how to be a good person. They want to focus on diminishing crime rather than punishing it. There is also a strong belief that the death of the murderer actually brings mercy to their soul. This is because they view God as just and that he will give no additional punishment to the soul after being put to death. Being put to death is seen as atonement for the crime.\n\nAlthough the death penalty is generally opposed in Buddhist nations, it is difficult to identify a specific Buddhist opinion on capital punishment because some countries that are majority Buddhist to not follow religious principles at all. Buddhist principles may not carry much weight, even in the case of a Buddhist ruler, because there is no direct effort of Buddhist followers to encourage pacifism in their country. The five precepts are not a divine order from god, they are merely a set of ethical guidelines to live by. For this reason, rulers do not necessarily have to worry about being punished by god for not following them, and some leaders may chose to simply ignore these guidelines when trying to run a country.\n\nThe first of the Five Precepts (Panca-sila) is to abstain from destruction of life. Chapter 10 of the Dhammapada states:\n\nThis concept is meant to encourage compassion (karuna) and that everyone has the opportunity to reach enlightenment. Buddhism retains the idea that all life should be valued and valuing the life of someone who does not necessarily value the life of others shows great compassion and non-violence (ahimsa). The concept of ahimsa also includes Karma, which recognizes that killing is an example of bad karma and that killing for revenge is seen as counterproductive. It is believed that even the lives of murderers have value. There is a strong focus on rehabilitation and killing people takes away their opportunity be helped. Killing for revenge is seen as counterproductive.\n\nChapter 26, the final chapter of the Dhammapada, states, \"Him I call a brahmin who has put aside weapons and renounced violence toward all creatures. He neither kills nor helps others to kill.\" The story of the Jhanasanda-Jataka contains a similar message in talking about a prince who gets rid of all places of execution. Similarly, the Rajaparikatha-ratnamala contains advice given by the Buddhist Philosopher Nagarjuna and states that people should have compassion even for murderers and that banishment should be utilized as opposed to killing. This strong emphasis on compassion, in relation to capital punishment, is also evident in the story of Angulimala. Angulimala was a murderer that everyone in the village feared but despite this, the Buddha headed down the road to where Angulimata is rumored to live. Out of compassion, the Buddha finds him and teaches him how to be a monk. This exemplifies the Buddhist concept of rehabilitation, however, Angulimata had built up too much bad karma previously and died a painful death as a result.\n\nHistorically, many Buddhist Kings in India did not impose the death penalty. They charged fines instead and cut off a hand at worst. Some people view this as surprising because many pre-modern societies used capital punishment often. Many places used banishment instead and sent murders off to mountains in the desert with just enough food to survive. Today Japan is very harsh to prisoners and still retains the death penalty, however, during the rule of emperor Shomu (from 724-749 AD) capital punishment was not allowed. Both the current Dalai Lama and his immediate predecessor have openly opposed the death penalty. The previous Dalai Lama (1879-1933) abolished the death penalty in an attempt to reform Tibet's feudal system after he had previously avoided cases involving capital punishment because of his focus on being a religious figure.\n\nBhutan, Cambodia, and Thailand all recognize Buddhism as a state religion and use a Buddhist approach to address the issue of capital punishment. Cambodia is the only nation to have officially outlawed the use of the death penalty while neither Thailand or Bhutan have utilized capital punishment in many years.\n\nThailand is home to about 63 million people, 95% of these people follow Theravada Buddhism and it has become central to the culture and identity of Thailand. It has been observed that few Buddhist monks and authorities have taken action against the death penalty. Many monks in Thailand have been surprisingly tolerant. This might be because they come from rural areas of the country where the death penalty is strongly supported, they lack information because it is not a pressing issue and not widely debated, or they simply have no power and are forbidden from making political statements because political authorities are exclusively in control of the government in Thailand. Thailand's war on drugs may potentially explain its current retention of the death penalty. The manufacture and distribution of drugs is considered an offense in which the death penalty is mandatory. There were no executions in Thailand, however, between the years of 1988-1995 and 2004-2007.\n\nSri Lanka also recognizes Buddhism as its official state religion but appears to moving toward an increase in its use of capital punishment. It is unclear, however, if this anything to do with its Buddhist beliefs. Unlike Thailand, Sri Lanka has had a long history of political and religious tension due to its history of being ruled by various countries. Its Buddhist influence was weakened by foreign rulers that believed in a suppression of Buddhist culture. A Buddhist monk was sentenced to death after his assassination of Prime Minister Bandaranaike in 1959 because he felt that he had not lived up to his political promises of promoting Buddhist culture within politics. Anthropologist Edmund Leach believes that the current government of Sri Lanka is made up of Buddhist leaders that do not adhere much to their Buddhist faith. Buddhist leaders in Sri Lanka have either supported the death penalty or been indifferent to its use. There has not been an execution in Sri Lanka since 1977 because the president changed all death sentences to life imprisonment instead. The government is now beginning to bring back the use of the death penalty in response to public demand in order to reduce the number of violent crimes being committed.\n\nAlthough it is communist, Laos has a much less intense commitment to capital punishment than other nearby communist nations. This is likely due to the strong influence of Theravada Buddhism. Myanmar also has a strong Theravada Buddhism influence in its country and has not carried out any government ordered executions since 1989. Taiwan has the same percentage of Buddhists as Thailand does and after interviewing four Taiwanese Buddhists, they were all in agreement that capital punishment goes against Buddhist teachings. They recognized that many Buddhist nations retain the death penalty because Buddhist monks never played a significant role in the political process. Buddhism plays a minor role in Taiwanese politics and one of the monks stated that \"the people involved in politics and government are a different group of people than those pursuing spiritual goals.\"\n\nChristian tradition from the New Testament have come to a range of conclusions about the permissibility and social value of capital punishment. While some hold that a strict reading of certain texts forbids executions, others point to various verses of the New Testament which seem to endorse the death penalty's use.\n\nMany early Christians were strongly opposed to the death penalty. A church order from Rome dated to around 200 AD forbids any Christian magistrate from carrying out a death sentence under pain of excommunication. It was also forbidden for any Christian to accuse a person of a crime if that accusation might result in the person being put to death or beaten with lead-weighted leather thongs. In the fifth century, Christian attitudes towards the death penalty gradually became less stringent. In 405, Pope Innocent I ruled that magistrates who enforced the death penalty could not be excommunicated, although the custom was probably still regarded as immoral.\n\nHistorically and traditionally, the Church has classed capital punishment as a form of \"lawful slaying\", a view defended by theological authorities such as Thomas Aquinas. \"(See also Aquinas on the death penalty)\". At various times in the past, the Church has held that, in certain cases, a legal system may be justified in levying a death sentence, such as in cases where the sentence may deter crime, may protect society from potential future acts of violence by an offender, may bring retribution for an offender's wrongful acts, and may even help the offender to move closer to reconciliation with God in the face of death. The 1566 Roman Catechism states this teaching thus:\n\nAnother kind of lawful slaying belongs to the civil authorities, to whom is entrusted power of life and death, by the legal and judicious exercise of which they punish the guilty and protect the innocent. The just use of this power, far from involving the crime of murder, is an act of paramount obedience to this Commandment which prohibits murder. The end of the Commandment is the preservation and security of human life. Now the punishments inflicted by the civil authority, which are the legitimate avengers of crime, naturally tend to this end, since they give security to life by repressing outrage and violence. Hence these words of David: \"In the morning I put to death all the wicked of the land, that I might cut off all the workers of iniquity from the city of the Lord\".\n\nThis teaching was evident in the writings both of Pope Innocent I and Pope Innocent III, with the latter stating that \"the secular power can without mortal sin carry out a sentence of death, provided it proceeds in imposing the penalty not from hatred but with judgment, not carelessly but with due solicitude.\" More recently, the 1911 edition of the Catholic Encyclopedia suggested that Catholics should hold that \"the infliction of capital punishment is not contrary to the teaching of the Catholic Church, and the power of the State to visit upon culprits the penalty of death derives much authority from revelation and from the writings of theologians\", but that the matter of \"the advisability of exercising that power is, of course, an affair to be determined upon other and various considerations.\"\n\nIn an address given on September 14, 1952, Pope Pius XII stated that the Church does not regard the execution of criminals as a violation by the State of the universal right to life, declaring: \"When it is a question of the execution of a condemned man, the State does not dispose of the individual's right to life. In this case it is reserved to the public power to deprive the condemned person of the enjoyment of life in expiation of his crime when, by his crime, he has already disposed himself of his right to live. In the late twentieth century, however, the Catholic Church began to generally move away from explicitly condoning the death penalty and instead began to increasingly adopt a more disapproving stance on the issue. Many modern Church figures such as Pope John Paul II, Pope Francis, and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops have actively discouraged the death penalty or advocated its outright abolition. For example, in his 1995 Evangelium Vitae, Pope John Paul II suggested that capital punishment should be avoided unless it is the only way to defend society from the offender in question, opining that punishment \"ought not go to the extreme of executing the offender except in cases of absolute necessity: in other words, when it would not be possible otherwise to defend society. Today however, as a result of steady improvements in the organisation of the penal system, such cases are very rare, if not practically non-existent.\" The 1999 edition of the Catechism of the Catholic Church restated this view, and further stated that:\n\nAssuming that the guilty party’s identity and responsibility have been fully determined, the traditional teaching of the Church does not exclude recourse to the death penalty if this is the only possible way of effectively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor. If, however, non-lethal means are sufficient to defend and protect people’s safety from the aggressor, authority will limit itself to such means, as these are more in keeping with the concrete conditions of the common good and more in conformity to the dignity of the human person.\n\nHowever, that the assessment of the contemporary situation advanced by John Paul II is not binding on the faithful was suggested by Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI) when he wrote in 2004 that,\n\nif a Catholic were to be at odds with the Holy Father (i.e., the Pope) on the application of capital punishment or on the decision to wage war, he would not for that reason be considered unworthy to present himself to receive Holy Communion. While the Church exhorts civil authorities to seek peace, not war, and to exercise discretion and mercy in imposing punishment on criminals, it may still be permissible to take up arms to repel an aggressor or to have recourse to capital punishment. There may be a legitimate diversity of opinion even among Catholics about waging war and applying the death penalty, but not however with regard to abortion and euthanasia.\n\nSome Catholic writers, such as the late Cardinal Joseph Bernadin of Chicago, have argued against the use of the death penalty in modern times by drawing on a stance labelled the \"consistent life ethic\". Characteristic of this approach is an emphasis on the sanctity of human life, and the responsibility on both a personal and social level to protect and preserve life from \"womb to tomb\" (conception to natural death). This position draws on the conviction that God has \"boundless love for every person, regardless of human merit or worthiness.\" Other Catholic writers, such as Joseph Sobran and Matt Abbott, have criticised this approach, contending that it minimises the issue of abortion by placing it on the same level as the death penalty – the latter of which the Church does not consider intrinsically immoral.\n\nIn 2015, Pope Francis stated in an address to the International Commission against the Death Penalty that: \"Today the death penalty is inadmissible, no matter how serious the crime committed.\" Francis argued that the death penalty is no longer justified by a society's need to defend itself and has lost all legitimacy due to the possibility of judicial error. He further stated that capital punishment is an offense \"against the inviolability of life and the dignity of the human person, which contradicts God's plan for man and society\" and \"does not render justice to the victims, but rather fosters vengeance.\" In the address, Francis further explained:\n\nFor a constitutional State the death penalty represents a failure, because it obliges the State to kill in the name of justice [...] Justice is never reached by killing a human being. [...] The death penalty loses all legitimacy due to the defective selectivity of the criminal justice system and in the face of the possibility of judicial error. Human justice is imperfect, and the failure to recognize its fallibility can transform it into a source of injustice. With the application of capital punishment, the person sentenced is denied the possibility to make amends or to repent of the harm done; the possibility of confession, with which man expresses his inner conversion; and of contrition, the means of repentance and atonement, in order to reach the encounter with the merciful and healing love of God. Furthermore, capital punishment is a frequent practice to which totalitarian regimes and fanatical groups resort, for the extermination of political dissidents, minorities, and every individual labelled as “dangerous” or who might be perceived as a threat to their power or to the attainment of their objectives. As in the first centuries and also in the current one, the Church suffers from the application of this penalty to her new martyrs.\n\nThe death penalty is contrary to the meaning of \"humanitas\" and to divine mercy, which must be models for human justice. It entails cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment, as is the anguish before the moment of execution and the terrible suspense between the issuing of the sentence and the execution of the penalty, a form of “torture” which, in the name of correct procedure, tends to last many years, and which oftentimes leads to illness and insanity on death row.\n\nShortly prior to Francis's address, the Vatican had officially given support to a 2015 United Nations campaign against the death penalty. During a U.N. Human Rights Council meeting concerning the abolishment of capital punishment, Archbishop Silvano Tomasi declared that \"The Holy See Delegation fully supports the efforts to abolish the use of the death penalty.\" The Archbishop stated:\n\nOn August 2, 2018, Pope Francis changed Catechism of the Catholic Church 2267 to the following:\n\nVarious Orthodox churches have issued statements opposing capital punishment, including the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Orthodox Church in America, the Greek Orthodox Church, and the Georgian Orthodox Church.\n\nArticle 37 of the Thirty-Nine Articles states that\n\nThe Lambeth Conference of Anglican and Episcopalian bishops condemned the death penalty in 1988:\nBefore that date, Anglican Bishops in the House of Lords had tended to vote in favour of the retention of capital punishment.\n\nIn 2000 the Southern Baptist Convention updated Baptist Faith and Message. In it the convention officially sanctioned the use of capital punishment by the State. It said that it is the duty of the state to execute those guilty of murder and that God established capital punishment in the Noahic Covenant (Genesis 9:6).\n\nSeveral key leaders early in the Protestant Reformation, including Martin Luther and John Calvin, followed the traditional reasoning in favour of capital punishment, and the Lutheran Church's Augsburg Confession explicitly defended it. Some Protestant groups have cited , , and\n\nMennonites, Church of the Brethren and Friends have opposed the death penalty since their founding, and continue to be strongly opposed to it today. These groups, along with other Christians opposed to capital punishment, have cited Christ's Sermon on the Mount (transcribed in ) and Sermon on the Plain (transcribed in ). In both sermons, Christ tells his followers to turn the other cheek and to love their enemies, which these groups believe mandates nonviolence, including opposition to the death penalty.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) presently takes no position on capital punishment. There are statements from church officials on blood atonement. This belief held that the blood of Jesus' Atonement could not remit certain serious sins, and that the only way a Mormon sinner could pay for committing such sins would be to have his own blood spilled on the ground as an atonement. This doctrine was never held by the church or practised by clergy in their official capacity. The doctrine has no relation as to the reason why, until recently, Utah gave convicts sentenced to death a choice to be executed by firing squad rather than other methods such as lethal injection. On the night before the execution of Ronnie Lee Gardner, who chose to die by firing squad for this reason, the LDS Church released a statement that it did not support blood atonement of individuals as a doctrine of salvation.\n\nAlthough Hinduism has historically not taken a stance on the death penalty and has little influence on the governments opinion of it, India (an 80% Hindu nation) has the lowest rate of execution of any other country. A basis can be found in Hindu teachings, such as the Mahabharata, for opposing the death penalty, even though it has historically been implemented by Hindu leaders. Hinduism preaches \"ahimsa\" (or \"ahinsa\", non-violence), but also teaches that the soul cannot be killed and death is limited only to the physical body, explaining the difficulty in choosing an exact position on capital punishment.\n\nHinduisms belief that life in this world is more of an illusion greatly decreases the religious impact on governments in majority Hindu nations. Use of the death penalty has not faced much opposition by Indian citizens historically, with the exception of some recent backlash. Hinduisms belief in karma may explain why there is no strong support or opposition to capital punishment because it is believed that if someone commits a crime in this life, they will pay for it in another life. It is also believed that the soul comes back many times after death to be purified by good karma and a persons destiny determines when they die.\n\nHistorically,The Laws of Manu, or manusmriti, state that the king should be the one to decide on appropriate punishments. The king has the right to do whatever needs to be done in order to protect his people. He is given the right to punish criminals by placing them in shackles, imprisoning them, or sentencing them to death. It was observed in the 5th century that death sentences were related to caste. For example, If a Sudra insulted a priest they were sentenced to death but if a priest were to kill a sudra it was the equivalent of killing a dog or a cat and their only punishment would be to pay a fine. Other crimes worthy of capital or corporal punishment, according to the Laws of Manu, include when a lower caste man makes love to a woman of the highest caste, a Sudra slandering a Kshatriya, when men and women of the most noble family are stolen from, and when a women is violated without consent.\n\nWith a history of rulers who favored capital punishment, Ashoka is the only known ruler to openly oppose its use. The Mughal Invasion in 16th century marked the end of Ashoka's rule and the reintroduction of the death penalty by subsequent rulers. In the 1980s parliament expanded punishment by death to offenses such as terrorism and kidnapping for ransom. This decision was supported by the public and a survey conducted in the 1980s solidified this support in finding that teachers, doctors, and lawyers all favored the death penalty. Currently, the Indian Penal Code (IPC) recognizes legitimacy of the death penalty in cases of murder, waging war against the government, encouraging suicide, fabricating false evidence, kidnapping, and murder as part of a robbery. Today, It is common to find people in support of the death penalty such as Kiran Bedi, Police Advisor to the UN, who says that \"the death penalty is necessary in certain cases to do justice to society's anger against the crime.\" An example of recent capital punishment in India includes Mohammad Afzal Guru, who was sentenced to death in 2013 after attacking the Indian Parliament in December 2001.\n\nEmperor Ashoka, who ruled during what is called \"the golden age\" of Hinduism, was one of the first rulers to completely outlaw the use of capital punishment. This was because of his large emphasis on ahimsa, or nonviolence. In Hinduism, the concept of ahimsa bans the killing of any living being, no matter how small. Many people who oppose the death penalty go back to the beliefs of their enlightened ancestors who preached non-violence and that we should respect human rights and the gift of life.Gandhi also opposed the death penalty and stated that \"I cannot in all conscience agree to anyone being sent to the gallows. God alone can take life because he alone gives it. In 1980, the Indian Supreme Court made it very clear that it does not take capital punishment lightly and as a result of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab ruled that the death penalty should only be utilized in the \"rarest of rare cases.\" Currently, it is mainly only human rights activists that take a stand against the death penalty. This is because they believe that the only people being sentenced to death are \"the poor, the sick, and the ignorant.\" Also vulnerable are the non-Hindu minorities, who feel threatened by the idea of the death penalty and oppose it Although it is unclear whether a sample of Indian college students is representative of the whole population, Lambert found that when asked their opinion of the death penalty 44% of college students opposed it. However, when taking into account the importance of religion in their lives there was a significant relationship between religious affiliation and support for the death penalty.\n\nIslamic governments are in support of capital punishment. Many Islamic nations have governments run directly by the code of Sharia law and, therefore, Islam is the only known religion to have a direct impact on governmental policies on capital punishment in modern times. Islamic law is often used in the court system of many Islamic countries where there is not separation of church and state. The Quran is viewed as the direct word of Allah and going against its teachings is seen as going against the whole basis of the law. Islamic law states \"Do not kill a soul which Allah has made sacred except through the process of due law,\" meaning that the death penalty is allowed in certain cases where the law says it is necessary. The Quran explicitly states that the taking of a life results in the taking of ones own. According to the Quran, the death penalty is recognized for some of the \"Hudud\" crimes in Islam because it is believed that these acts go directly against the word of god and are seen as a threat to society. However in pre-modern Islam capital punishment for these crimes were rarely enforced because the evidentiary standards were so high as to make conviction more difficult. The enforcement of these laws by modern Islamic governments has been a source of minor controversy within Muslim communities at times.\n\nIslamic nations generally agree upon the retention of the death penalty but differ in how they impose it, indicating that there is still disagreement on the issue even within the religion of Islam. Iran and Iraq, for example, are very open about using the death penalty frequently, whereas the Islamic nation of Tunisia only uses it in extremely rare cases. Sudan will impose the death penalty for those under the age of eighteen, while Yemen has taken a stance against using the death penalty for minors. Exceptionally, Djibouti is an Islamic nation which prohibits the death penalty in all situations.\n\nThe UN has voiced concern about the sudden increase in death sentences in Iran since 2014. Although Iran has been called upon multiple times to stop utilizing the death penalty so frequently, a total of 625 executions were carried out in 2013 alone. Many of these executions consisted of drug related crimes, \"enmity against god\", and threatening national security. In a controversial case, Iranian woman Reyhaneh Jabbari was hanged in Tehran in October 2014 for the murder of a man she claimed attempted to rape her. Her sentence was supported by the concept of qisas found in the Quran. The term qisas is translated as \"equality in retaliation,\" meaning that any injury inflicted on another should be compensated for by punishing the perpetrator with the same injury.\n\nA fatwa is translated as a legal ruling that is issued by an Islamic legal expert that addresses the allowance or prohibition of a certain act. Fatwas promoting violence, in which the government allows an individual or a group of people to kill, is found only in Islam. Some fatwas are based on jihad, defined by radicals as a military conflict that is generally an individual duty for all healthy adult males. This idea becomes relevant in military struggles between Muslims and non-believers in which Muslims are not permitted to flee. The necessity to fight is viewed as an act of faith to Allah and those that remain loyal will be rewarded. Ancient Islamic law lays out conditions under which jihads can be waged and around 10-14 out of the 36 total conditions are military related. Other forms of jihad include personal struggles with the evil implications of ones soul or wealth. Current military motivations might be coming from the idea that Islam can only be spread through violence although the modern world includes methods such as mass media and the internet\n\nTraditionally, fatwas must identify the legal problem being addressed, consider other rulings regarding the issue, and lay out a clear guide on how to solve the problem. Fatwas need to be based on many sources such as the Qur'an, the sunnah, logical analogies, public interest, and necessity. There has been question about a Muslim following a fatwa that causes him to sin, particularly in cases of violence. This falls back on the cleric that issued to fatwa and the person that committed the potential crime. This has led to radical interpretations of legitimacy of killing in order to fulfill a fatwa. An example of this include Islamic terrorism which states that \"the meaning of jihad is to strive to liberate Muslim lands of the grip of kuffar who usurped them and imposed on them their own laws instead of the laws of Allah.\" Fatwas have been issued by radicals of the Muslim community against the west with claims of heresy and world domination. An example of this is the fatwa issued by Sheikh Abdallah 'Azzam who called for an on going jihad \"until all of mankind worships Allah.\" This resulted in a fatwa that encouraged killing all non-believers was the responsibility of all Muslims as a response to the Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Another example includes when Well known Islamic religious leader, Yusuf al-Qaradawi, issued a fatwa in February 2011 against Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi. He stated that \"whoever in the Libyan army is able to shoot a bullet at Mr Gaddafi should do so,\" on Al-Jazeera television.\n\nThe official teachings of Judaism approve the death penalty in principle but the standard of proof required for application of death penalty is extremely stringent, and in practice, it has been abolished by various Talmudic decisions, making the situations in which a death sentence could be passed effectively impossible and hypothetical. \"Forty years before the destruction\" of the Temple in Jerusalem in 70 CE, i.e. in 30 CE, the Sanhedrin effectively abolished capital punishment, making it a hypothetical upper limit on the severity of punishment, fitting in finality for God alone to use, not fallible humans.\n\nWhile allowing for the death penalty in some hypothetical circumstances, scholars of Judaism are broadly opposed to the death penalty as practised in the modern world. The Jewish understanding of Biblical law is not based on a literal reading of the Bible, but rather through the lens of Judaism's oral law. These oral laws were first recorded around 200 CE in the Mishnah and later around 600 CE in the Babylonian Talmud. The laws make it clear that the death penalty was used only rarely. The Mishnah states:\n\nRabbinic tradition describes a detailed system of checks and balances to prevent the execution of an innocent person. These rules are so restrictive as to effectively legislate the penalty out of existence. The law requires that:\n\n\nThe 12th-century Jewish legal scholar Maimonides famously stated that \"It is better and more satisfactory to acquit a thousand guilty persons than to put a single innocent one to death.\" Maimonides argued that executing a defendant on anything less than absolute certainty would lead to a slippery slope of decreasing burdens of proof, until we would be convicting merely \"according to the judge's caprice.\" Maimonides was concerned about the need for the law to guard itself in public perceptions, to preserve its majesty and retain the people's respect. On the other hand, he allowed for the possibility of imposing capital punishment on circumstantial evidence alone when warranted\n\nToday the State of Israel only uses the death penalty for extraordinary crimes, and only two people have ever been executed in Israel's history. The only civil execution ever to take place in Israel was of convicted Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann in 1962. The other execution was of Meir Tobianski, an army major court-martialled and convicted of treason during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, and posthumously exonerated. However, Israeli employment of the death penalty has little to do with Jewish law.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism it is held that in theory the death penalty is a correct and just punishment for some crimes. However, in practice the application of such a punishment can only be carried out by humans whose system of justice is nearly perfect, a situation which has not existed for some time.\n\nOrthodox Rabbi Yosef Edelstein writes\n\nOrthodox Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan writes:\n\nOn the other hand, Rabbi Moshe Feinstein, in a letter to then New York Governor Hugh Carey states:\n\"One who murders because the prohibition to kill is meaningless to him and he is especially cruel, and so too when murderers and evil people proliferate they [the courts] would [should?] judge [capital punishment] to repair the issue [and] to prevent murder – for this [action of the court] saves the state.\"\n\nIn Conservative Judaism the death penalty was the subject of a responsum by its Committee on Jewish Law and Standards:\n\nThe Bible and death penalty\n\n"}
{"id": "2221605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221605", "title": "Section 16.1 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Section 16.1 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nSection 16.1 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" is the newest section of the Charter. It was enacted by the Constitution Amendment, 1993 (New Brunswick) and guarantees equality between English-speaking and French-speaking New Brunswickers.\n\nSection 16.1 (pronounced \"sixteen point one\") is not to be confused with subsection 16(1) (\"sixteen one\"), which is part of section 16 and goes back to 1982. Section 16.1 is a separate section; the \"point one\" numbering simply indicates that at some time (i.e. in 1993) an amendment inserted this new section between two existing sections without renumbering them.\n\nThe section reads,\n\nSection 16.1 makes reference to a need for \"institutions\" for both language groups, including educational institutions, and it seemingly gives the provincial government powers to protect the right. This is not completely revolutionary in that this merely entrenches laws already found in \"An Act Recognizing the Equality of the Two Official Linguistic Communities in New Brunswick\" (1981), as noted in the 2001 Court of Appeal case \"Charlebois v. Mowat\". The section can be seen as providing \"collective rights,\" and one critic charged that a deeper meaning to the section would have to be decided by Canadian courts.\n\nIn \"Charlebois v. Mowat\", the court ruled that section 16.1, as well as subsections 16(2) and 18(2), require bilingual municipal laws when the minority language population of a municipality is significant. The ruling was made primarily on the basis of the court's interpretation of subsection 18(2)), but in its ruling the court also stated that section 16.1 is \"remedial\", meaning that it is supposed to fix historical problems. (A related case later went to the Supreme Court as \"Charlebois v. Saint John (City)\".)\n\n\"An Act Recognizing the Equality of the Two Official Linguistic Communities in New Brunswick\" was enacted in 1981 by Premier Richard Hatfield. It provided independent school boards for both linguistic groups. Its principles were later incorporated into the Constitution of Canada, through section 16.1, in response to a shift in provincial politics in the early 1990s.\n\nWhereas in the 1980s all parties had supported the rise of bilingualism in New Brunswick, in 1991 a new party called the Confederation of Regions Party, which was opposed to official bilingualism, became the official opposition in the legislature. The pro-bilingualism Liberal provincial government proceeded to seek a constitutional amendment mandating bilingualism in New Brunswick to make any future change in New Brunswick's status subject to Federal approval.\n\nThe constitutionalization of the legislation was originally meant to be accomplished as part of a package of amendments known as the Charlottetown Accord in 1992. The amendment was made separately once the Accord was rejected in a national referendum, prompting Professor Peter Russell to refer to this as an \"encouraging [sign] that Canadians may be recovering the capacity to accomplish constitutional reform without linking everything together and getting bogged down in the mega constitutional swamp.\"\n\nSection 43 of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\" was the part of the amending formula used to add section 16.1 to the \"Charter\". This meant the amendment was approved by the province affected (New Brunswick) and the Senate of Canada and House of Commons of Canada, although constitutional lawyer Deborah Coyne argued that the amendment involved federal jurisdiction and thus seven provinces would be needed. The House of Commons passed the amendment with a vote of 219-2, on February 1, 1993.\n\nA \"Montreal Gazette\" article approved, calling the New Brunswick government \"courageous\" because of its resistance to the Confederation of Regions Party, and added that the section provided a \"noble, generous vision of Canadian duality and co-existence. Too bad it seems confined to New Brunswick.\"\n\nIt did attract some criticism, with columnist William Johnson claiming that Parliament had not fully analyzed the amendment and tried to stifle public discussion. He even suggested that section 16.1 might create two governments for New Brunswick, one in English and one in French. Earlier, this columnist had also charged that enshrining collective rights in the Constitution was \"alien to liberalism,\" and would undermine the individual in favour of a larger group; he also said section 16.1 excluded Aboriginal peoples in New Brunswick and could make them \"second-class citizens.\" He compared section 16.1 to how the Meech Lake Accord and Charlottetown Accord would have recognized Quebec as a distinct society.\n\nHowever, Opposition leader Jean Chrétien, who at that time represented Acadians, said that \"For me it is a great day. It is an example that we can be together and at the same time be different in Canada.\"\n\nThe \"Constitution Amendment, 1993 (New Brunswick)\" was signed by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Attorney General Pierre Blais, and Registrar General Pierre H. Vincent, under a proclamation of Governor General Ray Hnatyshyn in Ottawa on 12 March 1993.\n\nIn 2000, an Ontario court ruled that the province was legally obligated to keep from closing the Montfort Hospital as part of its program of merging many of the hospitals in the Ottawa region. The basis for the decision was the court's conclusion that this was a logical application of an unwritten constitutional principle of minority rights, which had been found by the Supreme Court in the 1998 \"Reference re Secession of Quebec\". Since the Montfort Hospital was the only hospital in the region operating primarily in French, it amounted to a protected parallel service-provider, much as New Brunswick's French-language and English-language school systems are parallel service providers, and therefore as an essential component of the collective rights of Ottawa's Franco-Ontarian population. The Government of Ontario criticized the decision as judicial activism, and charged that \"The divisional court decision has effectively rewritten the constitution to make [Section] 16.1 applicable to Ontario despite the express intention that it apply to New Brunswick alone.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1353580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1353580", "title": "Sejm court", "text": "Sejm court\n\nA sejm court was a court that sat in cases of impeachment – in the words of the May 3 Constitution of 1791 (article VIII: the judicial authority) – of government \"ministers [...] charged with breach of law by a deputation designated to examine their deeds [...].\"\n\nThe composition and functioning of sejm courts were spelled out in an act of the Sejm passed on May 13, 1791.\n"}
{"id": "56139077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56139077", "title": "Sentientism", "text": "Sentientism\n\nSentientism is an ethical philosophy that grants degrees of moral consideration to all sentient beings. Sentientism extends humanism by showing compassion for non-human animals as well as potential artificial and alien intelligences. In common with humanism, sentientism rejects supernatural beliefs in favour of critical, evidence-based thinking.\n\nSentientism proposes that sentience, the ability to experience suffering or flourishing, should determine whether we grant moral consideration to an entity. Non-sentient entities do not warrant direct moral consideration because they can not experience the implications of our decisions.\n\nSentientist thinking has a long history, from Jeremy Bentham's An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation through to contemporary philosophers such as Richard D. Ryder and Peter Singer.\n\nSentientism differs from Speciesism in that it uses degrees of sentience, rather than species boundaries, to grant degrees of moral consideration.\n\nSentientism differs from painism in that it acknowledges the full range of experience, not just that of pain, in warranting moral consideration. \n\nSentientism agrees with Animalism that humans are animals so both warrant moral consideration. However, sentientism argues that non-animal sentient beings, such as potential artificial or alien intelligences, would also warrant moral consideration. \n\nNotable sentientists include: Diana Fleischman, Peter Singer and Alasdair Cochrane.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6747138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6747138", "title": "Stefanus Alliance International", "text": "Stefanus Alliance International\n\nStefanus Alliance International (SAINT) is a religious freedom and human rights organization with historical roots in Christian missions work, dedicated to defending freedom of belief and religion as expressed in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The organization is based in Oslo, Norway. Its motto, designated in 1996, is: \"Together for the persecuted.\"\n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" was established in 1967 by Monrad Norderval, Anutza Moise, Vemund Skard, Else-Marie Skard and Gulbrand Øverbye. It was earlier known as the \"Mission Behind the Iron Curtain\", or the \"Norwegian Mission to the East.\" The organization decided at its meeting of October 29, 2011 to change its name to \"Stefanus Alliance International\" as of January 1, 2012. \n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" provides support, care, and practical help for churches and individuals who are persecuted or oppressed because of their religious beliefs. The organisation also advocates on behalf of Christians and others who have had their religious rights violated. It commissioned a radio in 1968, published the newspaper \"Ropet fra Øst\" in 1971, and helped establish Forum 18 news service in 2003.\n\nThe NGO is a partner in the international Christian Solidarity Worldwide network since 2001.\n\n\"Stefanus Alliance International\" awards the Stefanus Prize, a prestigious human rights prize to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the work for freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.\n\nThe organisation is currently led by secretary-general Hilde Skaar Vollebæk. Former secretary generals include Lasse Trædal (1982-1989), John Victor Selle (1989-2002), Bjørn Wegge (2002-2013) and Hans Aage Gravaas (2013-2017).\n\nOn January 3, 2018, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" announced its search for a new secretary-general to replace Hilde Skaar Vollebæk. On April 3, 2018, \"Stefanus Alliance International\" publicized its decision to appoint Ed Brown as the new secretary-general as of August 1, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "31665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31665", "title": "Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment (Amendment XIII) to the United States Constitution abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime. In Congress, it was passed by the Senate on April 8, 1864, and by the House on January 31, 1865. The amendment was ratified by the required number of states on December 6, 1865. On December 18, 1865, Secretary of State William H. Seward proclaimed its adoption. It was the first of the three Reconstruction Amendments adopted following the American Civil War.\n\nSince the American Revolution, states had divided into states that allowed or states that prohibited slavery. Slavery was implicitly permitted in the original Constitution through provisions such as Article I, Section 2, Clause 3, commonly known as the Three-Fifths Compromise, which detailed how each slave state's enslaved population would be factored into its total population count for the purposes of apportioning seats in the United States House of Representatives and direct taxes among the states. Though many slaves had been declared free by President Abraham Lincoln's 1863 Emancipation Proclamation, their post-war status was uncertain. On April 8, 1864, the Senate passed an amendment to abolish slavery. After one unsuccessful vote and extensive legislative maneuvering by the Lincoln administration, the House followed suit on January 31, 1865. The measure was swiftly ratified by nearly all Northern states, along with a sufficient number of border states up to the death of Lincoln, but approval came with President Andrew Johnson, who encouraged the \"reconstructed\" Southern states of Alabama, North Carolina and Georgia to agree, which brought the count to 27 states, and caused it to be adopted before the end of 1865.\n\nThough the amendment formally abolished slavery throughout the United States, factors such as Black Codes, white supremacist violence, and selective enforcement of statutes continued to subject some black Americans to involuntary labor, particularly in the South. In contrast to the other Reconstruction Amendments, the Thirteenth Amendment was rarely cited in later case law, but has been used to strike down peonage and some race-based discrimination as \"badges and incidents of slavery.\" The Thirteenth Amendment applies to the actions of private citizens, while the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments apply only to state actors. The Thirteenth Amendment also enables Congress to pass laws against sex trafficking and other modern forms of slavery.\n\nSlavery existed in all of the original thirteen British North American colonies. Prior to the Thirteenth Amendment, the United States Constitution did not expressly use the words \"slave\" or \"slavery\" but included several provisions about unfree persons. The Three-Fifths Compromise, Article I, Section 2, Clause 3 of the Constitution, allocated Congressional representation based \"on the whole Number of free Persons\" and \"three fifths of all other Persons\". This clause was a compromise between Southerners who wished slaves to be counted as 'persons' for congressional representation and northerners rejecting these out of concern of too much power for the South, because representation in the new Congress would be based on population in contrast to the one-vote-for-one-state principle in the earlier Continental Congress. Under the Fugitive Slave Clause, Article IV, Section 2, Clause 3, \"No person held to Service or Labour in one State\" would be freed by escaping to another. allowed Congress to pass legislation outlawing the \"Importation of Persons\", but not until 1808. However, for purposes of the Fifth Amendment—which states that, \"No person shall . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law\"—slaves were understood as property. Although abolitionists used the Fifth Amendment to argue against slavery, it became part of the legal basis in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" (1857) for treating slaves as property.\n\nStimulated by the philosophy of the Declaration of Independence, between 1777 and 1804 every Northern state provided for the immediate or gradual abolition of slavery. Most of the slaves involved were household servants. No Southern state did so, and the slave population of the South continued to grow, peaking at almost 4 million people in 1861. An abolitionist movement headed by such figures as William Lloyd Garrison grew in strength in the North, calling for the end of slavery nationwide and exacerbating tensions between North and South. The American Colonization Society, an alliance between abolitionists who felt the races should be kept separated and slaveholders who feared the presence of freed blacks would encourage slave rebellions, called for the emigration and colonization of both free blacks and slaves to Africa. Its views were endorsed by politicians such as Henry Clay, who feared that the main abolitionist movement would provoke a civil war. Proposals to eliminate slavery by constitutional amendment were introduced by Representative Arthur Livermore in 1818 and by John Quincy Adams in 1839, but failed to gain significant traction.\n\nAs the country continued to expand, the issue of slavery in its new territories became the dominant national issue. The Southern position was that slaves were property and therefore could be moved to the territories like all other forms of property. The 1820 Missouri Compromise provided for the admission of Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free state, preserving the Senate's equality between the regions. In 1846, the Wilmot Proviso was introduced to a war appropriations bill to ban slavery in all territories acquired in the Mexican–American War; the Proviso repeatedly passed the House, but not the Senate. The Compromise of 1850 temporarily defused the issue by admitting California as a free state, instituting a stronger Fugitive Slave Act, banning the slave trade in Washington, D.C., and allowing New Mexico and Utah self-determination on the slavery issue.\n\nDespite the compromise, tensions between North and South continued to rise over the subsequent decade, inflamed by, amongst other things, the publication of the 1852 anti-slavery novel \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\"; fighting between pro-slavery and abolitionist forces in Kansas, beginning in 1854; the 1857 \"Dred Scott\" decision, which struck down provisions of the Compromise of 1850; abolitionist John Brown's 1859 attempt to start a slave revolt at Harpers Ferry and the 1860 election of slavery critic Abraham Lincoln to the presidency. The Southern states seceded from the Union in the months following Lincoln's election, forming the Confederate States of America, and beginning the American Civil War.\n\nActing under presidential war powers, Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863, which proclaimed the freedom of slaves in the ten states that were still in rebellion. However, it did not affect the status of slaves in the border states that had remained loyal to the Union. That December, Lincoln again used his war powers and issued a \"Proclamation for Amnesty and Reconstruction\", which offered Southern states a chance to peacefully rejoin the Union if they abolished slavery and collected loyalty oaths from 10% of their voting population. Southern states did not readily accept the deal, and the status of slavery remained uncertain.\n\nIn the final years of the Civil War, Union lawmakers debated various proposals for Reconstruction. Some of these called for a constitutional amendment to abolish slavery nationally and permanently. On December 14, 1863, a bill proposing such an amendment was introduced by Representative James Mitchell Ashley of Ohio. Representative James F. Wilson of Iowa soon followed with a similar proposal. On January 11, 1864, Senator John B. Henderson of Missouri submitted a joint resolution for a constitutional amendment abolishing slavery. The Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired by Lyman Trumbull of Illinois, became involved in merging different proposals for an amendment.\n\nRadical Republicans led by Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner and Pennsylvania Representative Thaddeus Stevens sought a more expansive version of the amendment. On February 8, 1864, Sumner submitted a constitutional amendment stating:\n\nAll persons are equal before the law, so that no person can hold another as a slave; and the Congress shall have power to make all laws necessary and proper to carry this declaration into effect everywhere in the United States.\n\nSumner tried to promote his own more expansive wording by circumventing the Trumbull-controlled Judiciary Committee, but failed. On February 10, the Senate Judiciary Committee presented the Senate with an amendment proposal based on drafts of Ashley, Wilson and Henderson.\n\nThe Committee's version used text from the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which stipulates, \"There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted.\" Though using Henderson's proposed amendment as the basis for its new draft, the Judiciary Committee removed language that would have allowed a constitutional amendment to be adopted with only a majority vote in each House of Congress and ratification by two-thirds of the states (instead of two-thirds and three-fourths, respectively).\n\nThe Senate passed the amendment on April 8, 1864, by a vote of 38 to 6; two Democrats, Reverdy Johnson of Maryland and James Nesmith of Oregon voted \"aye.\" However, just over two months later on June 15, the House failed to do so, with 93 in favor and 65 against, thirteen votes short of the two-thirds vote needed for passage; the vote split largely along party lines, with Republicans supporting and Democrats opposing. In the 1864 presidential race, former Free Soil Party candidate John C. Frémont threatened a third-party run opposing Lincoln, this time on a platform endorsing an anti-slavery amendment. The Republican Party platform had, as yet, failed to include a similar plank, though Lincoln endorsed the amendment in a letter accepting his nomination. Fremont withdrew from the race on September 22, 1864 and endorsed Lincoln.\n\nWith no Southern states represented, few members of Congress pushed moral and religious arguments in favor of slavery. Democrats who opposed the amendment generally made arguments based on federalism and states' rights. Some argued that the proposed change so violated the spirit of the Constitution that it would not be a valid \"amendment\" but would instead constitute \"revolution.\" Representative White, among other opponents, warned that the amendment would lead to full citizenship for blacks.\n\nRepublicans portrayed slavery as uncivilized and argued for abolition as a necessary step in national progress. Amendment supporters also argued that the slave system had negative effects on white people. These included the lower wages resulting from competition with forced labor, as well as repression of abolitionist whites in the South. Advocates said ending slavery would restore the First Amendment and other constitutional rights violated by censorship and intimidation in slave states.\nWhite, Northern Republicans and some Democrats became excited about an abolition amendment, holding meetings and issuing resolutions. Many blacks though, particularly in the South, focused more on land ownership and education as the key to liberation. As slavery began to seem politically untenable, an array of Northern Democrats successively announced their support for the amendment, including Representative James Brooks, Senator Reverdy Johnson, and the powerful New York political machine known as Tammany Hall.\n\nPresident Lincoln had had concerns that the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863 might be reversed or found invalid by the judiciary after the war. He saw constitutional amendment as a more permanent solution. He had remained outwardly neutral on the amendment because he considered it politically too dangerous. Nonetheless, Lincoln's 1864 party platform resolved to abolish slavery by constitutional amendment. After winning reelection in the election of 1864, Lincoln made the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment his top legislative priority, beginning with his efforts in Congress during its \"lame duck\" session. Popular support for the amendment mounted and Lincoln urged Congress on in his December 6, 1864 State of the Union Address: \"there is only a question of \"time\" as to when the proposed amendment will go to the States for their action. And as it is to so go, at all events, may we not agree that the sooner the better?\"\n\nLincoln instructed Secretary of State William H. Seward, Representative John B. Alley and others to procure votes by any means necessary, and they promised government posts and campaign contributions to outgoing Democrats willing to switch sides. Seward had a large fund for direct bribes. Ashley, who reintroduced the measure into the House, also lobbied several Democrats to vote in favor of the measure. Representative Thaddeus Stevens later commented that \"the greatest measure of the nineteenth century was passed by corruption aided and abetted by the purest man in America\"; however, Lincoln's precise role in making deals for votes remains unknown.\n\nRepublicans in Congress claimed a mandate for abolition, having gained in the elections for Senate and House. The 1864 Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Representative George H. Pendleton, led opposition to the measure. Republicans toned down their language of radical equality in order to broaden the amendment's coalition of supporters. In order to reassure critics worried that the amendment would tear apart the social fabric, some Republicans explicitly promised that the amendment would leave patriarchy intact.\n\nIn mid-January 1865, Speaker of the House Schuyler Colfax estimated the amendment to be five votes short of passage. Ashley postponed the vote. At this point, Lincoln intensified his push for the amendment, making direct emotional appeals to particular members of Congress. On January 31, 1865, the House called another vote on the amendment, with neither side being certain of the outcome. With 183 House members present, 122 would have to vote \"aye\" to secure passage of the resolution; however eight Democrats abstained, reducing the number to 117. Every Republican (84), Independent Republican (2) and Unconditional Unionist (16) supported the measure, as well as 14 Democrats, almost all of them lame ducks, and 3 Unionists. The amendment finally passed by a vote of 119 to 56, narrowly reaching the required two-thirds majority. The House exploded into celebration, with some members openly weeping. Black onlookers, who had only been allowed to attend Congressional sessions since the previous year, cheered from the galleries.\n\nWhile the Constitution does not provide the President any formal role in the amendment process, the joint resolution was sent to Lincoln for his signature. Under the usual signatures of the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate, President Lincoln wrote the word \"Approved\" and added his signature to the joint resolution on February 1, 1865. On February 7, Congress passed a resolution affirming that the Presidential signature was unnecessary. The Thirteenth Amendment is the only ratified amendment signed by a President, although James Buchanan had signed the Corwin Amendment that the 36th Congress had adopted and sent to the states in March 1861.\n\nWhen the Thirteenth Amendment was submitted to the states on February 1, 1865, it was quickly taken up by several legislatures. By the end of the month, it had been ratified by eighteen states. Among them were the ex-Confederate states of Virginia and Louisiana, where ratifications were submitted by Reconstruction governments. These, along with subsequent ratifications from Arkansas and Tennessee raised the issues of how many seceded states had legally valid legislatures; and if there were fewer legislatures than states, if Article V required ratification by three-fourths of the states or three-fourths of the legally valid state legislatures. President Lincoln in his last speech, on April 11, 1865, called the question about whether the Southern states were in or out of the Union a \"pernicious abstraction.\" Obviously, he declared, they were not \"in their proper practical relation with the Union\"; whence everyone's object should be to restore that relation. Lincoln was assassinated three days later.\n\nWith Congress out of session, the new President, Andrew Johnson, began a period known as \"Presidential Reconstruction\", in which he personally oversaw the creation of new state governments throughout the South. He oversaw the convening of state political conventions populated by delegates whom he deemed to be loyal. Three leading issues came before the conventions: secession itself, the abolition of slavery, and the Confederate war debt. Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, and South Carolina held conventions in 1865, while Texas' convention did not organize until March 1866. Johnson hoped to prevent deliberation over whether to re-admit the Southern states by accomplishing full ratification before Congress reconvened in December. He believed he could silence those who wished to deny the Southern states their place in the Union by pointing to how essential their assent had been to the successful ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment.\n\nDirect negotiations between state governments and the Johnson administration ensued. As the summer wore on, administration officials began including assurances of the measure's limited scope with their demands for ratification. Johnson himself suggested directly to the governors of Mississippi and North Carolina that they could proactively control the allocation of rights to freedmen. Though Johnson obviously expected the freed people to enjoy at least some civil rights, including, as he specified, the right to testify in court, he wanted state lawmakers to know that the power to confer such rights would remain with the states. When South Carolina provisional governor Benjamin Franklin Perry objected to the scope of the amendment's enforcement clause, Secretary of State Seward responded by telegraph that in fact the second clause \"is really restraining in its effect, instead of enlarging the powers of Congress\". White politicians throughout the South were concerned that Congress might cite the amendment's enforcement powers as a way to authorize black suffrage.\n\nWhen South Carolina ratified the amendment in November 1865, it issued its own interpretive declaration that \"any attempt by Congress toward legislating upon the political status of former slaves, or their civil relations, would be contrary to the Constitution of the United States\". Alabama and Louisiana also declared that their ratification did not imply federal power to legislate on the status of former slaves. During the first week of December, North Carolina and Georgia gave the amendment the final votes needed for it to become part of the Constitution.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment became part of the Constitution on December 6, 1865, based on the following ratifications:\n\n\nHaving been ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several states (27 of the 36 states, including those that had been \"in rebellion\"), Secretary of State Seward, on December 18, 1865, certified that the Thirteenth Amendment had become valid, to all intents and purposes, as a part of the Constitution. Included on the enrolled list of ratifying states were the three ex-Confederate states that had given their assent, but with strings attached. Seward accepted their affirmative votes and brushed aside their \"interpretive declarations\" without comment, challenge or acknowledgment.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment was subsequently ratified by:\nThe Thirteenth Amendment became part of the Constitution 61 years after the Twelfth Amendment. This is the longest interval between constitutional amendments.\n\nThe impact of the abolition of slavery was felt quickly. When the Thirteenth Amendment became operational, the scope of Lincoln's 1863 Emancipation Proclamation was widened to include the entire nation. Although the majority of Kentucky's slaves had been emancipated, 65,000–100,000 people remained to be legally freed when the Amendment went into effect on December 18. In Delaware, where a large number of slaves had escaped during the war, nine hundred people became legally free.\nIn addition to abolishing slavery and prohibiting involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, the Thirteenth Amendment also nullified the Fugitive Slave Clause and the Three-Fifths Compromise. The population of a state originally included (for congressional apportionment purposes) all \"free persons\", three-fifths of \"other persons\" (i.e., slaves) and excluded untaxed Native Americans. The Three-Fifths Compromise was a provision in the Constitution that required three-fifths of the population of slaves be counted for purposes of apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives and taxes among the states. This compromise had the effect of increasing the political power of slave-holding states by increasing their share of seats in the House of Representatives, and consequently their share in the Electoral College (where a state's influence over the election of the President is tied to the size of its congressional delegation).\n\nEven as the Thirteenth Amendment was working its way through the ratification process, Republicans in Congress grew increasingly concerned about the potential for there to be a large increase in the congressional representation of the Democratic-dominated Southern states. Because the full population of freed slaves would be counted rather than three-fifths, the Southern states would dramatically increase their power in the population-based House of Representatives. Republicans hoped to offset this advantage by attracting and protecting votes of the newly enfranchised black population.\n\nSouthern culture remained deeply racist, and those blacks who remained faced a dangerous situation. J. J. Gries reported to the Joint Committee on Reconstruction: \"There is a kind of innate feeling, a lingering hope among many in the South that slavery will be regalvanized in some shape or other. They tried by their laws to make a worse slavery than there was before, for the freedman has not the protection which the master from interest gave him before.\" W. E. B. Du Bois wrote in 1935:\n\nSlavery was not abolished even after the Thirteenth Amendment. There were four million freedmen and most of them on the same plantation, doing the same work that they did before emancipation, except as their work had been interrupted and changed by the upheaval of war. Moreover, they were getting about the same wages and apparently were going to be subject to slave codes modified only in name. There were among them thousands of fugitives in the camps of the soldiers or on the streets of the cities, homeless, sick, and impoverished. They had been freed practically with no land nor money, and, save in exceptional cases, without legal status, and without protection.\n\nOfficial emancipation did not substantially alter the economic situation of most blacks who remained in the south.\n\nAs the amendment still permitted labor as punishment for convicted criminals, Southern states responded with what historian Douglas A. Blackmon called \"an array of interlocking laws essentially intended to criminalize black life\". These laws, passed or updated after emancipation, were known as Black Codes. Mississippi was the first state to pass such codes, with an 1865 law titled \"An Act to confer Civil Rights on Freedmen\". The Mississippi law required black workers to contract with white farmers by January 1 of each year or face punishment for vagrancy. Blacks could be sentenced to forced labor for crimes including petty theft, using obscene language, or selling cotton after sunset. States passed new, strict vagrancy laws that were selectively enforced against blacks without white protectors. The labor of these convicts was then sold to farms, factories, lumber camps, quarries, and mines.\n\nAfter its ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment in November 1865, the South Carolina legislature immediately began to legislate Black Codes. The Black Codes created a separate set of laws, punishments, and acceptable behaviors for anyone with more than one black great-grandparent. Under these Codes, Blacks could only work as farmers or servants and had few Constitutional rights. Restrictions on black land ownership threatened to make economic subservience permanent.\n\nSome states mandated indefinitely long periods of child \"apprenticeship\". Some laws did not target Blacks specifically, but instead affected farm workers, most of whom were Black. At the same time, many states passed laws to actively prevent Blacks from acquiring property.\n\nAs its first enforcement legislation, Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1866, guaranteeing black Americans citizenship and equal protection of the law, though not the right to vote. The amendment was also used as authorizing several Freedmen's Bureau bills. President Andrew Johnson vetoed these bills, but Congress overrode his vetoes to pass the Civil Rights Act and the Second Freedmen's Bureau Bill.\n\nProponents of the Act, including Trumbull and Wilson, argued that Section 2 of the Thirteenth Amendment authorized the federal government to legislate civil rights for the States. Others disagreed, maintaining that inequality conditions were distinct from slavery. Seeking more substantial justification, and fearing that future opponents would again seek to overturn the legislation, Congress and the states added additional protections to the Constitution: the Fourteenth Amendment (1868) defining citizenship and mandating equal protection under the law, and the Fifteenth Amendment (1870) banning racial voting restrictions.\n\nThe Freedmen's Bureau enforced the amendment locally, providing a degree of support for people subject to the Black Codes. Reciprocally, the Thirteenth Amendment established the Bureau's legal basis to operate in Kentucky. The Civil Rights Act circumvented racism in local jurisdictions by allowing blacks access to the federal courts. The Enforcement Acts of 1870–1871 and the Civil Rights Act of 1875, in combating the violence and intimidation of white supremacy, were also part of the effort to end slave conditions for Southern blacks. However, the effect of these laws waned as political will diminished and the federal government lost authority in the South, particularly after the Compromise of 1877 ended Reconstruction in exchange for a Republican presidency.\n\nSouthern business owners sought to reproduce the profitable arrangement of slavery with a system called peonage, in which disproportionately black workers were entrapped by loans and compelled to work indefinitely due to the resulting debt.\n\nWith the Peonage Act of 1867, Congress abolished \"the holding of any person to service or labor under the system known as peonage\", specifically banning \"the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or otherwise.\"\n\nIn 1939, the Department of Justice created the Civil Rights Section, which focused primarily on First Amendment and labor rights. The increasing scrutiny of totalitarianism in the lead-up to World War II brought increased attention to issues of slavery and involuntary servitude, abroad and at home. The U.S. sought to counter foreign propaganda and increase its credibility on the race issue by combatting the Southern peonage system. Under the leadership of Attorney General Francis Biddle, the Civil Rights Section invoked the constitutional amendments and legislation of the Reconstruction Era as the basis for its actions.\n\nIn 1947, the DOJ successfully prosecuted Elizabeth Ingalls for keeping domestic servant Dora L. Jones in conditions of slavery. The court found that Jones \"was a person wholly subject to the will of defendant; that she was one who had no freedom of action and whose person and services were wholly under the control of defendant and who was in a state of enforced compulsory service to the defendant.\" The Thirteenth Amendment enjoyed a swell of attention during this period, but from \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954) until \"Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co.\" (1968) it was again eclipsed by the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment exempts penal labor from its prohibition of forced labor. This allows prisoners who have been convicted of crimes (not those merely awaiting trial) to be required to perform labor or else face punishment while in custody.\n\nFew records of the committee's deliberations during the drafting of the Thirteenth Amendment survived, and the debate in both Congress and the state legislatures that followed featured almost no discussion of this provision. It was apparently considered noncontroversial at the time, or at least legislators gave it little thought. The drafters based the amendment's phrasing on the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which features an identical exception. Thomas Jefferson authored an early version of that ordinance's anti-slavery clause, including the exception of punishment for a crime, and also sought to prohibit slavery in general after 1800. Jefferson was an admirer of the works of Italian criminologist Cesare Beccaria. Beccaria's \"On Crimes and Punishments\" suggested that the death penalty should be abolished and replaced with a lifetime of enslavement for the worst criminals; Jefferson likely included the clause due to his agreement with Beccaria. Beccaria, while attempting to reduce \"legal barbarism\" of the 1700s, considered forced labor one of the few harsh punishments acceptable; for example, he advocated slave labor as a just punishment for robbery, so that the thief's labor could be used to pay recompense to their victims and to society. Penal \"hard labor\" has ancient origins, and was adopted early in American history (as in Europe) often as a substitute for capital or corporal punishment.\n\nVarious commentators have accused states of abusing this provision to re-establish systems similar to slavery, or of otherwise exploiting such labor in a manner unfair to local labor. The Black Codes in the South criminalized \"vagrancy\", which was largely enforced against freed slaves. Later, convict lease programs in the South allowed local plantations to rent inexpensive prisoner labor. While many of these programs have been phased out (leasing of convicts was forbidden by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1941), prison labor continues in America under a variety of justifications. Prison labor programs vary widely; some are uncompensated prison maintenance tasks, some are for local government maintenance tasks, some are for local businesses, and others are closer to internships. Modern rationales for prison labor programs often include reduction of recidivism and re-acclimation to society; the idea is that such labor programs will make it easier for the prisoner upon release to find gainful employment rather than relapse to criminality. However, this topic is not well-studied, and much of the work offered is so menial as to be unlikely to improve employment prospects. As of 2017, most prison labor programs do compensate prisoners, but generally with very low wages. What wages they do earn are often heavily garnished, with as much as 80% of a prisoner's paycheck withheld in the harshest cases.\n\nIn 2018, entertainer Kanye West advocated for repealing the Thirteenth Amendment's exception for penal labor in a meeting with President Donald Trump, calling the exception a \"trap door.\"\n\nIn contrast to the other \"Reconstruction Amendments\", the Thirteenth Amendment was rarely cited in later case law. As historian Amy Dru Stanley summarizes, \"beyond a handful of landmark rulings striking down debt peonage, ﬂagrant involuntary servitude, and some instances of race-based violence and discrimination, the Thirteenth Amendment has never been a potent source of rights claims\".\n\n\"United States v. Rhodes\" (1866), one of the first Thirteenth Amendment cases, tested the constitutionality of provisions in the Civil Rights Act of 1866 that granted blacks redress in the federal courts. Kentucky law prohibited blacks from testifying against whites—an arrangement which compromised the ability of Nancy Talbot (\"a citizen of the United States of the African race\") to reach justice against a white person accused of robbing her. After Talbot attempted to try the case in federal court, the Kentucky Supreme Court ruled this federal option unconstitutional. Noah Swayne (a Supreme Court justice sitting on the Kentucky Circuit Court) overturned the Kentucky decision, holding that without the material enforcement provided by the Civil Rights Act, slavery would not truly be abolished. With \"In Re Turner\" (1867), Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase ordered freedom for Elizabeth Turner, a former slave in Maryland who became indentured to her former master.\n\nIn \"Blyew v. United States\", (1872) the Supreme Court heard another Civil Rights Act case relating to federal courts in Kentucky. John Blyew and George Kennard were white men visiting the cabin of a black family, the Fosters. Blyew apparently became angry with sixteen-year-old Richard Foster and hit him twice in the head with an ax. Blyew and Kennard killed Richard's parents, Sallie and Jack Foster, and his blind grandmother, Lucy Armstrong. They severely wounded the Fosters' two young daughters. Kentucky courts would not allow the Foster children to testify against Blyew and Kennard. Federal courts, authorized by the Civil Rights Act, found Blyew and Kennard guilty of murder. The Supreme Court ruled that the Foster children did not have standing in federal courts because only living people could take advantage of the Act. In doing so, the Courts effectively ruled that Thirteenth Amendment did not permit a federal remedy in murder cases. Swayne and Joseph P. Bradley dissented, maintaining that in order to have meaningful effects, the Thirteenth Amendment would have to address systemic racial oppression.\n\nThe \"Blyew\" case set a precedent in state and federal courts that led to the erosion of Congress's Thirteenth Amendment powers. The Supreme Court continued along this path in the \"Slaughter-House Cases\" (1873), which upheld a state-sanctioned monopoly of white butchers. In \"United States v. Cruikshank\" (1876), the Court ignored Thirteenth Amendment dicta from a circuit court decision to exonerate perpetrators of the Colfax massacre and invalidate the Enforcement Act of 1870.\nThe Thirteenth Amendment was not solely a ban on chattel slavery, but also covers a much broader array of labor arrangements and social deprivations. As the U.S. Supreme Court explicated in the Slaughter-House Cases with respect to the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendment and the Thirteenth Amendment in special:\n\nUndoubtedly while negro slavery alone was in the mind of the Congress which proposed the thirteenth article, it forbids any other kind of slavery, now or hereafter. If Mexican peonage or the Chinese coolie labor system shall develop slavery of the Mexican or Chinese race within our territory, this amendment may safely be trusted to make it void. And so if other rights are assailed by the States which properly and necessarily fall within the protection of these articles, that protection will apply, though the party interested may not be of African descent. But what we do say, and what we wish to be understood is, that in any fair and just construction of any section or phrase of these amendments, it is necessary to look to the purpose which we have said was the pervading spirit of them all, the evil which they were designed to remedy, and the process of continued addition to the Constitution, until that purpose was supposed to be accomplished, as far as constitutional law can accomplish it.\n\nIn the \"Civil Rights Cases\" (1883), the Supreme Court reviewed five consolidated cases dealing with the Civil Rights Act of 1875, which outlawed racial discrimination at \"inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters, and other places of public amusement\". The Court ruled that the Thirteenth Amendment did not ban most forms of racial discrimination by non-government actors. In the majority decision, Bradley wrote (again in non-binding dicta) that the Thirteenth Amendment empowered Congress to attack \"badges and incidents of slavery\". However, he distinguished between \"fundamental rights\" of citizenship, protected by the Thirteenth Amendment, and the \"social rights of men and races in the community\". The majority opinion held that \"it would be running the slavery argument into the ground to make it apply to every act of discrimination which a person may see fit to make as to guests he will entertain, or as to the people he will take into his coach or cab or car; or admit to his concert or theatre, or deal with in other matters of intercourse or business.\" In his solitary dissent, John Marshall Harlan (a Kentucky lawyer who changed his mind about civil rights law after witnessing organized racist violence) argued that \"such discrimination practiced by corporations and individuals in the exercise of their public or quasi-public functions is a badge of servitude, the imposition of which congress may prevent under its power.\"\n\nThe Court in the \"Civil Rights Cases\" also held that appropriate legislation under the amendment could go beyond nullifying state laws establishing or upholding slavery, because the amendment \"has a reflex character also, establishing and decreeing universal civil and political freedom throughout the United States\" and thus Congress was empowered \"to pass all laws necessary and proper for abolishing all badges and incidents of slavery in the United States.\" The Court stated about the scope the amendment:\n\nThis amendment, as well as the Fourteenth, is undoubtedly self-executing, without any ancillary legislation, so far as its terms are applicable to any existing state of circumstances. By its own unaided force and effect, it abolished slavery and established universal freedom. Still, legislation may be necessary and proper to meet all the various cases and circumstances to be affected by it, and to prescribe proper modes of redress for its violation in letter or spirit. And such legislation may be primary and direct in its character, for the amendment is not a mere prohibition of State laws establishing or upholding slavery, but an absolute declaration that slavery or involuntary servitude shall not exist in any part of the United States.\n\nAttorneys in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896) argued that racial segregation involved \"observances of a servile character coincident with the incidents of slavery\", in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment. In their brief to the Supreme Court, Plessy's lawyers wrote that \"distinction of race and caste\" was inherently unconstitutional. The Supreme Court rejected this reasoning and upheld state laws enforcing segregation under the \"separate but equal\" doctrine. In the (7–1) majority decision, the Court found that \"a statute which implies merely a legal distinction between the white and colored races—a distinction which is founded on the color of the two races and which must always exist so long as white men are distinguished from the other race by color—has no tendency to destroy the legal equality of the two races, or reestablish a state of involuntary servitude.\" Harlan dissented, writing: \"The thin disguise of 'equal' accommodations for passengers in railroad coaches will not mislead any one, nor, atone for the wrong this day done.\"\n\nIn \"Hodges v. United States\" (1906), the Court struck down a federal statute providing for the punishment of two or more people who \"conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States\". A group of white men in Arkansas conspired to violently prevent eight black workers from performing their jobs at a lumber mill; the group was convicted by a federal grand jury. The Supreme Court ruled that the federal statute, which outlawed conspiracies to deprive citizens of their liberty, was not authorized by the Thirteenth Amendment. It held that \"no mere personal assault or trespass or appropriation operates to reduce the individual to a condition of slavery\". Harlan dissented, maintaining his opinion that the Thirteenth Amendment should protect freedom beyond \"physical restraint\". \"Corrigan v. Buckley\" (1922) reaffirmed the interpretation from \"Hodges\", finding that the amendment does not apply to restrictive covenants.\n\nEnforcement of federal civil rights law in the South created numerous peonage cases, which slowly traveled up through the judiciary. The Supreme Court ruled in \"Clyatt v. United States\" (1905) that peonage was involuntary servitude. It held that although employers sometimes described their workers' entry into contract as voluntary, the servitude of peonage was always (by definition) involuntary.\n\nIn \"Bailey v. Alabama\" the U.S. Supreme Court again reaffirmed its holding that Thirteenth Amendment was not solely a ban on chattel slavery, but also covers a much broader array of labor arrangements and social deprivations In addition to the aforesaid the Court also ruled on Congress enforcement power under the Thirteenth Amendment. The Court said:\n\nThe plain intention [of the amendment] was to abolish slavery of whatever name and form and all its badges and incidents; to render impossible any state of bondage; to make labor free, by prohibiting that control by which the personal service of one man is disposed of or coerced for another's benefit, which is the essence of involuntary servitude. While the Amendment was self-executing, so far as its terms were applicable to any existing condition, Congress was authorized to secure its complete enforcement by appropriate legislation.\n\nLegal histories cite \"Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co.\" (1968) as a turning point of Thirteen Amendment jurisprudence. The Supreme Court confirmed in \"Jones\" that Congress may act \"rationally\" to prevent private actors from imposing \"badges and incidents of servitude\". The Joneses were a black couple in St. Louis County, Missouri who sued a real estate company for refusing to sell them a house. The Court held:\n\nCongress has the power under the Thirteenth Amendment rationally to determine what are the badges and the incidents of slavery, and the authority to translate that determination into effective legislation. ... this Court recognized long ago that, whatever else they may have encompassed, the badges and incidents of slavery – its \"burdens and disabilities\" – included restraints upon \"those fundamental rights which are the essence of civil freedom, namely, the same right ... to inherit, purchase, lease, sell and convey property, as is enjoyed by white citizens.\" Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, 109 U. S. 22.\n\nJust as the Black Codes, enacted after the Civil War to restrict the free exercise of those rights, were substitutes for the slave system, so the exclusion of Negroes from white communities became a substitute for the Black Codes. And when racial discrimination herds men into ghettos and makes their ability to buy property turn on the color of their skin, then it too is a relic of slavery.\n\nNegro citizens, North and South, who saw in the Thirteenth Amendment a promise of freedom—freedom to \"go and come at pleasure\" and to \"buy and sell when they please\"—would be left with \"a mere paper guarantee\" if Congress were powerless to assure that a dollar in the hands of a Negro will purchase the same thing as a dollar in the hands of a white man. At the very least, the freedom that Congress is empowered to secure under the Thirteenth Amendment includes the freedom to buy whatever a white man can buy, the right to live wherever a white man can live. If Congress cannot say that being a free man means at least this much, then the Thirteenth Amendment made a promise the Nation cannot keep.\n\nThe Court in \"Jones\" reopened the issue of linking racism in contemporary society to the history of slavery in the United States.\n\nThe \"Jones\" precedent has been used to justify Congressional action to protect migrant workers and target sex trafficking. The direct enforcement power found in the Thirteenth Amendment contrasts with that of the Fourteenth, which allows only responses to institutional discrimination of state actors.\n\nThe Supreme Court has taken an especially narrow view of involuntary servitude claims made by people not descended from black (African) slaves. In \"Robertson v. Baldwin\" (1897), a group of merchant seamen challenged federal statutes which criminalized a seaman's failure to complete their contractual term of service. The Court ruled that seamen's contracts had been considered unique from time immemorial, and that \"the amendment was not intended to introduce any novel doctrine with respect to certain descriptions of service which have always been treated as exceptional\". In this case, as in numerous \"badges and incidents\" cases, Justice Harlan authored a dissent favoring broader Thirteenth Amendment protections.\n\nIn \"Selective Draft Law Cases\", the Supreme Court ruled that the military draft was not \"involuntary servitude\". In \"United States v. Kozminski\", the Supreme Court ruled that the Thirteenth Amendment did not prohibit compulsion of servitude through psychological coercion. \"Kozminski\" defined involuntary servitude for purposes of criminal prosecution as \"a condition of servitude in which the victim is forced to work for the defendant by the use or threat of physical restraint or physical injury or by the use or threat of coercion through law or the legal process. This definition encompasses cases in which the defendant holds the victim in servitude by placing him or her in fear of such physical restraint or injury or legal coercion.\"\n\nThe U.S. Courts of Appeals, in \"Immediato v. Rye Neck School District\", \"Herndon v. Chapel Hill\", and \"Steirer v. Bethlehem School District\", have ruled that the use of community service as a high school graduation requirement did not violate the Thirteenth Amendment.\n\nDuring the six decades following the 1804 ratification of the Twelfth Amendment two proposals to amend the Constitution were adopted by Congress and sent to the states for ratification. Neither has been ratified by the number of states necessary to become part of the Constitution. Commonly known as the Titles of Nobility Amendment and the Corwin Amendment, both are referred to as \"Article Thirteen\", as was the successful Thirteenth Amendment, in the joint resolution passed by Congress.\n\n\n\"Maryland Law Review\", special issue: Symposium – the Maryland Constitutional Law Schmooze\n\"Columbia Law Review\", special issue: Symposium: The Thirteenth Amendment: Meaning, Enforcement, and Contemporary Implications\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39677596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39677596", "title": "Tresorit", "text": "Tresorit\n\nTresorit is an online cloud storage service based in Switzerland and Hungary that emphasizes enhanced security and data encryption for Businesses and individuals/freelancers. The Business version offers up to 1TB of storage space per user (the Solo version offers 2TB for one user) and extra security features such as DRM, granular access levels and other functions which aim to create a safer collaborative environment. Tresorit has been likened to a high-security alternative to Dropbox.\n\nTresorit's service is accessible through client desktop software, web-based application and mobile apps. Currently, the software is available for Windows, macOS, Android, Windows Phone 8, iOS, and Linux.\n\nTresorit was founded in 2011 by Hungarian programmers Istvan Lam, who remains CEO, Szilveszter Szebeni, who is currently CIO and Gyorgy Szilagyi, who is the CPO of the company.\n\nTresorit officially launched its client-side encrypted cloud storage service after emerging from its stealth beta in April 2014.\n\nIn August 2015, Wuala (owned by LaCie and Seagate), a pioneer of secure cloud storage, announced it was closing its service after 7 years, and recommended their users to choose Tresorit as their secure cloud alternative.\n\nBy the end of 2016, Tresorit launched a beta of the software development kit (SDK) ZeroKit. In January 2017, Apple's SDK project CareKit announced the option for mobile app developers using CareKit to integrate ZeroKit, enabling zero knowledge user authentication and encryption for medical and health apps.\n\nTresorit encrypts files using client-side encryption with AES-256 before uploading them. Files are also secured by HMAC message authentication codes applied on SHA-512 hashes.\n\n\"Tresors\" (German for vaults) are encrypted counterparts of uploaded directories. Tresors automatically sync with the cloud as files are added or removed from them, similar to Box.com and Dropbox's desktop software. The main difference between Tresorit and its competition is that Tresorit applies AES-256 client-side encryption to files while they are still local and then uploads them to the cloud. The company claims that due to its end-to-end encryption, users can share protected files and folders with others and work together on them, keeping the documents synced and secure in every step of the process. There are additional layers of security, but the core privacy feature of the service is that the encryption key never leaves the user: Using Zero-Knowledge encryption protocols, Tresorit is not in possession of the users’ authentication data, so the content of files cannot be accessed from their servers nor delivered to authorities upon request.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, Tresorit hosted a hacking contest offering $10,000 to anyone who hacked their data encryption methods to gain access to their servers. After some months, the reward was increased to $25,000 and later to $50,000, challenging experts from institutions like Harvard, Stanford or MIT. The contest ran for 468 days and according to the company, nobody was able to break the encryption. \n\nTresorit has received a number of nominations and awards. Up-Cloud Rewards named it one of the top 5 Cloud security solutions for 2012. Early 2016, Forbes listed Tresorit's cofounder Istvan Lam among the European \"30 under 30\". In 2017, Tresorit was listed as finalist in the Cybersecurity Excellence Awards, category Encryption.\n\n"}
{"id": "53120412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53120412", "title": "United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016", "text": "United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016\n\nThe United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 (H.R. 5877) was a bill introduced in the United States House by U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas). The Democratic cosponsor is Representative James Langevin (D-RI). The legislation, which was signed into law, allows the U.S. and Israel to cooperate on cybersecurity technologies research and development.\n\nCybersecurity industry experts believe that collaboration between countries is one of the best way to prevent cyber attacks. A critical need exists for countries to share research and development in the cybersecurity world.\n\nThe United States and Israel work together in a research and development program called the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency.\n\nA 2014 law authorized the Department of Homeland Security to work with Israel on a pilot program to improve:\n\nH.R. 5877 makes the program permanent by removing the “pilot” designation and adds cybersecurity as the fourth program area.\n\nThe law allows the Department of Homeland Security to work together with Israel on cybersecurity initiatives.\n\nThe law doesn't authorize any new expenditures. Because the Department of Homeland Security is already carrying out activities similar to this, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the law would not affect spending. Additionally, H.R. 5877 does not contain any intergovernmental or private-sector mandates.\n\nThe bill followed this path from introduction to being signed into law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21717455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21717455", "title": "Victoria Park Racing &amp; Recreation Grounds Co Ltd v Taylor", "text": "Victoria Park Racing &amp; Recreation Grounds Co Ltd v Taylor\n\nVictoria Park Racing & Recreation Grounds Co Ltd v Taylor is a leading case of the High Court of Australia on determining whether property rights exist, and protecting claims in property for the purposes of tort law. It is also notable in its rejection of the concepts of quasi-property and privacy in the framework of the common law. It has been observed that the concept of property itself cannot be entirely satisfactorily explained without accounting, in some way or other, for the ruling in \"Victoria Park Racing\".\n\nIt arose from the manner in which radio broadcasting in Australia in the 1930s challenged the monopolies of racing clubs who exercised tight control over access to the racecourse, supported by existing laws, with minimal media reporting in the form of scores scratched on boards at the racecourse and more detailed newspaper summaries after the event.\n\nThe plaintiff owned Victoria Park, a racing track which charged admissions to people who placed bets on the races. The racecourse was surrounded by a very high fence. Taylor, who had a house and front yard adjacent to the course, allowed the radio broadcasting station 2UW to construct a five-metre high platform on scaffolding from which someone could see into the course and broadcast – with the help of binoculars — the races and information about horses posted at the ground, which facilitated unregulated off-track betting. Attendance at the ground plummeted.\n\nThe Plaintiff claimed that on-track betting was lower as a result of the broadcasts, as people who had previously come to the track were now listening on the radio instead and Taylor was profiting at the expense of the plaintiff.\n\nHe applied to the Supreme Court of New South Wales for an injunction against Taylor on the footing of nuisance and breach of copyright. Privacy and non-natural use of property were also cited as grounds. It was common ground that the mere construction and use of the raised platform constituted no breach of building or zoning regulations or of the betting and gaming legislation or indeed of the regulations governing broadcasting.\n\nThe injunction was denied, and the decision was appealed to the High Court.\n\nIn a 3-2 decision, the appeal was dismissed, as no wrong was committed that was known to the law. Separate opinions were issued by all justices Latham CJ, Dixon and McTiernan JJ for the majority, and Rich and Evatt JJ in dissent.\n"}
{"id": "48377378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48377378", "title": "Woodrow Wilson Mann", "text": "Woodrow Wilson Mann\n\nWoodrow Wilson Mann (November 13, 1916 – August 6, 2002) was an American politician who was the mayor of the capital city of Little Rock, Arkansas, from 1956 to 1957.\n\nA Little Rock native, Mann attended the University of Illinois and fought in World War II with the United States Navy in the Pacific Theater of Operations. He was a member of the staff of Admiral Chester Nimitz. Upon his return to the United States, he established an insurance agency. A Democrat, Mann unseated Mayor Pratt C. Remmel, a two-term Republican, in the 1955 municipal election and took office on January 1, 1956.\n\nThe Little Rock Nine school desegregation case occurred near the end of Mann's term as mayor in 1957. Outraged by Governor Orval Faubus' order that National Guard troops block the entrance of the students at Little Rock Central High School, Mann sent a telegram to President Dwight D. Eisenhower to request federal troops. Eisenhower soon authorized the troops. After his term as mayor, Mann moved in 1960 to Houston, Texas, where he died in 2002 and is interred at Memorial Oaks Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "48336785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48336785", "title": "Xu Shoulan v. Peng Yu", "text": "Xu Shoulan v. Peng Yu\n\nXu Shoulan v. Peng Yu, also referred to as the Peng Yu Case or the Nanjing Peng Yu Incident, was a civil lawsuit in the People's Republic of China, brought before the Nanjing District Court in 2007.\n\nIn 2006, Peng Yu had encountered Xu Shoulan after she had fallen and broken her femur. Peng Yu assisted Xu Shoulan and brought her to a local hospital for further care. Xu Shoulan accused Peng Yu of having caused her to fall, and demanded that he pay her medical expenses. The court decided in favor of the plaintiff and held Peng liable for damages, reasoning that despite the lack of concrete evidence, \"no one would in good conscience help someone unless they felt guilty\". The verdict received widespread media coverage, and engendered a public outcry against the decision. It is regarded as a landmark case because of its implication that the Chinese public is vulnerable to civil liability for lending help in emergency situations due to the lack of any Good Samaritan laws.\n\nNovember 20, 2006, Peng Yu encountered Xu Shoulan, an elderly lady, after she had disembarked from a city bus and fallen. Peng brought Xu to the hospital, and contributed 200 RMB towards her treatment. At the hospital, Xu was diagnosed with a fractured femur and was told that she would have to undergo femur replacement surgery. Xu demanded that Peng pay for her medical costs, and when he refused, sued him for personal injury compensation, claiming that he caused her fall. After out-of-court mediation failed, the case was brought before the Gulou District Court in Nanjing on April 1, 2007. In court, Xu claimed that she had seen that Peng bumped into her, whereas Peng maintained that he only approached Xu after he had seen her fall. An eyewitness present at the scene, Chen Erchun, claimed that Xu had inexplicably fallen as she was transferring between two buses. He maintained that Peng had only arrived at the scene after Xu had fallen, and that he himself had assisted the two of them in calling Xu's relatives. These statements were categorically rejected by Xu Shoulan at the third court hearing. The case concluded with Peng admitting to have accidentally pushed Xu as he was getting off the bus, and agreed to pay her 10,000 yuan compensation in the settlement reached in March 2008. The two sides withdrew their appeals and came to an agreement that they would not disclose details of the case.\n"}
