{"id": "45462708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45462708", "title": "15th Brigade Support Battalion (United States)", "text": "15th Brigade Support Battalion (United States)\n\nThe 15th Medical Battalion is a former battalion of the United States Army.\n\nThe 15th Medical Battalion was a non-combat battalion of the United States Army Medical Department, originally formed on 23 March 1925 as the 1st Medical Squadron and redesignated as the 15th Medical Battalion on 25 March 1949. On 1 October 1984, the 15th Medical Battalion was redesignated the 2nd Forward Support Battalion. Two of the medical companies were reassigned and a Quartermaster company from the 15th Supply & Transportation Battalion became the new Company A, while Company B came from the 27th Maintenance Battalion. On 15 May 1987, the Battalion became the 15th Support Battalion (Forward). The Battalion has been assigned to the 1st Cavalry Division since it was formed.\n\nThe unit saw service during the Second World War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Gulf War (Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm), the Bosnian War (as part of rotation SFOR 5), the war in Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom), Hurricane Katrina, and the war in Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom). It is currently designated the 15th Brigade Support Battalion, providing logistics support to the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39993576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39993576", "title": "5-SPICE framework", "text": "5-SPICE framework\n\nThe 5-SPICE framework is an instrument designed for global health practitioners to guide discussions about community health worker (CHW) projects.\n\nThe 5-SPICE framework was developed by clinicians and researchers from Partners In Health, Harvard Medical School, and Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, MA. The framework lays out a model for integrating community health workers into public health systems, learning from the experiences Partners In Health and partner organizations at their project sites in resource-poor settings around the world. 5-SPICE draws upon experiences from Haiti, Rwanda, Lesotho, Liberia, Nepal, Mali, and elsewhere, where CHWs have been employed to improve patient outcomes and overcome personnel shortages. The framework allows for all stakeholders in a community health program to participate in discussions and analyses to strengthen the impact of CHWs.\n\n5-SPICE allows for all stakeholders in a community health program to participate in discussions and analyses to strengthen the impact of community health workers.\n\nThe name 5-SPICE is derived from Chinese cuisine emphasizing the balance between inputs and elements. The five main elements form an acronym:\n\nThese elements are not a static list, but a way to holistically analyze how core programmatic elements affect each other in the field. In the Freirean tradition of awareness, the 5-SPICE model emphasizes facilitated discussion and contemplation among stakeholders, particularly CHWs, to maximize program outputs. Ultimately, the 5-SPICE framework allows program implementers to study the relationship between the health system and the local community.\n\nOther CHW program frameworks exist, such as the CHW Assessment and Improvement Matrix (AIM) developed by the USAID-funded Health Care Improvement (HCI) project. 5-SPICE complements these other frameworks by providing an acronym that condenses the many elements discussed in other frameworks into an easy-to-remember heuristic, allowing for more effective and efficient assessments that are exploratory rather than prescriptive.\n\nThe 5-SPICE framework was first formally introduced in an April 2013 publication in Global Health Action, in an article entitled “5-SPICE: the application of an original framework for community health worker program design, quality improvement and research agenda setting.” The framework was subsequently presented at the 2013 Consortium of Universities for Global Health Conference, and the 2013 Swedish Society of Medicine’s annual conference, Global Health—Beyond 2015. The article has also been accepted for presentation at the 2013 Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association.\n"}
{"id": "58064167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58064167", "title": "After the Sirens", "text": "After the Sirens\n\nAfter the Sirens is a 2018 Canadian documentary television program about the epidemic of post-traumatic stress disorder among paramedics. It consists of interviews with emergency medical workers and mental health experts as well as dramatic recreations of emergency calls experienced by the interview subjects. It was directed by Kevin Eastwood, and produced and commissioned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for the \"Docs POV\" television program.\n\nThe documentary recounts the stories of three paramedics who suffered traumatic incidents during the course of their careers and subsequently developed symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, including severe depression and substance abuse. Experts cite statistics and research showing paramedics to be at particular risk for PTSD and suicide, and discuss the bureaucratic roadblocks faced by paramedics who attempt to seek treatment. \n\nThe documentary is structured to highlight similarities in the paramedics’ stories, from their initial idealism and hope about their careers, through the traumatic incidents that stood out from the normal pressures of their profession, the periods of depression and self-medication with alcohol and/or drugs, suicidal ideation or suicide attempts, to their struggles with recovery.\n\n\nDirector Kevin Eastwood initially met Derbyshire during the filming of Knowledge Network’s factual series . In an interview with a Vancouver Sun reporter, Eastwood said \"I didn’t know him well, but I knew him by face and we had been friendly in the emergency room. I had always seen him as being this charismatic, attractive, really good at his job, really confident, good paramedic. To learn what he was actually struggling with on the inside, well, I had no idea.\"\n\nThe documentary aired on CBC Television on April 8, 2018 in some provinces. It was pre-empted in some provinces by the broadcast of the Humbolt Broncos vigil. CBC aired the program in the rest of Canada on April 9. \n\nThree days after the initial broadcast, the NDP Government announced Bill 9 – 2018: Workers Compensation Amendment Act, which included changes to Worksafe regulations. Prior to this change, BC first-responders who developed PTSD were required to prove to Worksafe BC that their condition was related to their work, otherwise they could not receive the benefits associated with work-related injuries. If the legislation is approved, the burden of proof would not fall upon the first-responders themselves, making it easier for PTSD sufferers to access benefits and treatment options.\n\nBC MLA Andrew Weaver summarized the change: \"This bill updates the Workers Compensation Act for eligible occupations (correction officer, an emergency medical assistant, a firefighter, a police officer, a sheriff or other as prescribed by regulation) who are exposed to one or more traumatic events over the course of their employment and are subsequently diagnosed with a mental disorder. The disorder will be presumed to have been caused by the nature of their work rather than having to prove that it was work-related. British Columbia is one of the last such jurisdictions in Canada to have such legislation.\"\n"}
{"id": "26330146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26330146", "title": "Apparent infection rate", "text": "Apparent infection rate\n\nApparent infection rate is an estimate of the rate of progress of a disease, based on proportional measures of the extent of infection at different times.\n\nFirstly, a proportional measure of the extent of infection is chosen as the disease extent metric. For example, the metric might be the proportion of leaf area affected by mildew, or the proportion of plants in a population showing dieback lesions. Measures of disease extent are then taken over time, and a mathematical model is fit. The model is based upon two assumptions:\n\nThere is a single model parameter \"r\", which is the apparent infection rate. It can be calculated analytically using the formula\n\nwhere\n\n"}
{"id": "5027705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5027705", "title": "Aursund", "text": "Aursund\n\nAursunden or Aursund is a lake in the municipality of Røros in Trøndelag county, Norway. The village of Brekken lies along the eastern shore and the village of Glåmos lies along the western shore.\n\nThere are several inflows to the lake including the lakes Rien, Riasten, and Bolagen. The outflow is regulated by a hydropower dam through which water passes into the river Glomma. The lake is about long and about wide. The deepest part of the lake reaches a depth of .\n\nAursunden is often cited as the source of the river Glomma, the longest and largest river in Norway. The actual headwaters are near Aursunden near the start of the Glommadal valley. The locals claim that the headwater of the Glomma river is Mustjønna, a tiny lake about north of Aursunden.\n\n"}
{"id": "10030230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10030230", "title": "BMDP", "text": "BMDP\n\nBMDP was a statistical package developed in 1965 by Wilfrid Dixon at the University of California, Los Angeles. The acronym stands for Bio-Medical Data Package, the word package was added by Dixon as the software consisted of a series of programs (subroutines) which performed different parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses.\n\nBMDP was originally distributed for free. It was later sold by Statsols, who originally was a subsidiary of BMDP, but through a management buy-out formed the now independent company Statistical Solutions Ltd, known as Statsols. BMDP is no longer available . The company decided to only offer its other statistical product nQuery Sample Size Software.\n\n"}
{"id": "18367005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18367005", "title": "Bioinformatics Resource Centers", "text": "Bioinformatics Resource Centers\n\nThe Bioinformatics Resource Centers (BRCs) are a group of five Internet-based research centers established in 2004 and funded by NIAID (the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.) The BRCs were formed in response to the threats posed by emerging and re-emerging pathogens, particularly Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Category A, B, and C pathogens, and their potential use in bioterrorism. The intention of NIAID in funding these bioinformatics centers is to assist researchers involved in the experimental characterization of such pathogens and the formation of drugs, vaccines, or diagnostic tools to combat them.\n\nThe main goals of the BRCs are as follows:\n\n1) To create comprehensive databases of reliable, up-to-date bioinformatic data (genetic, proteomic, biochemical, or microbiological) related to the pathogens of interest; <br>\n2) To provide researchers with easy access to this data through Internet-based search and data retrieval user interfaces; <br>\n3) To provide researchers with relevant, state-of-the art computational tools for bioinformatic analysis of these data.\n\nThe five BRCs are supported by various institutions, both publicly and privately owned, throughout the USA and Canada. Each BRC focuses on a different group of pathogens. The Pathogen Portal serves as a common repository and provides summary information about and links into the BRCs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4308449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4308449", "title": "Black Report", "text": "Black Report\n\nThe Black Report was a 1980 document published by the Department of Health and Social Security (now the Department of Health) in the United Kingdom, which was the report of the expert committee into health inequality chaired by Sir Douglas Black. It was demonstrated that although overall health had improved since the introduction of the welfare state, there were widespread health inequalities. It also found that the main cause of these inequalities was economic inequality. The report showed that the death rate for men in social class V was twice that for men in social class I and that gap between the two was increasing, not reducing as was expected. \nThe Black report was commissioned in March 1977 by David Ennals, Labour Secretary of State, following publication of a two-page article by Richard G. Wilkinson in New Society, on 16 December 1976, entitled \"Dear David Ennals.\" The report was nearly ready for publication in early 1979.\n\nIn the General Election on 3 May 1979, the Conservatives were elected. The Black Report was not issued until 1980 by the Conservative Government. The Black report was published on August Bank Holiday with only 260 copies made available on the day for the media. The foreword, by Patrick Jenkin rejected \"the view that the causes of health inequalities are so deep rooted that only a major and wide-ranging programme of public expenditure is capable of altering the pattern.\" He made \"it clear that additional expenditure on the scale which could result from the report’s recommendations – the amount involved could be upwards of £2 billion a year – is quite unrealistic in present or any foreseeable economic circumstances, quite apart from any judgement that may be formed of the effectiveness of such expenditure in dealing with the problems identified.\"\n\nThe report had a huge impact on political thought in the United Kingdom and overseas. It led to an assessment by the Office for Economic Co-Operation and Development and the World Health Organization of health inequalities in 13 countries.\n\nProfessor Clare Bambra in 2016 compared the report with the later Acheson Report and the subsequent report by Michael Marmot. The Acheson report was released into a more favourable climate than either. She said that at least between 1997 and 2003, health policy across the UK reflected some of the ideas set out in the Black and Acheson Reports. There was a consistent emphasis on the need to tackle the social and economic determinants of health inequalities as well as a commitment to employing cross-cutting government policies to tackle health inequality. Most importantly, by 2004, national targets to reduce health inequalities were also introduced with a focus on life expectancy and Infant Mortality Rate. A series of initiatives were introduced - Health Action Zones, Healthy Living Centres, Health Improvement Programmes and the New Deal for Communities. But, perhaps because of these initiatives, from 2004 to 2007, public health policy moved away from social and economic determinants and instead focused more on health services and lifestyle behaviours. The health inequalities targets were abandoned across the UK in 2011. The effect of policy in reducing health inequality was modest. \n\nPenguin Books published a shortened version of the Black Report in 1982, making it widely available \n\nThe Whitehall Report published in 1987 came to the same conclusions as the Black report, as did the Acheson Report later in 1998, and the Marmot Review in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "27303975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303975", "title": "Callanetics", "text": "Callanetics\n\nThe Callanetics exercise programme was created by Callan Pinckney in the early 1980s. It is a system of exercise involving frequent repetition of small muscular movements and squeezes, designed to improve muscle tone. The programme was developed by Pinckney from classical ballet exercises, to help ease a back problem that she was born with.\n\nThe theory of callanetics is that the surface muscles of the body are supported by deeper muscles, but popular exercise programmes often exercise only the surface muscles. According to callanetics, deeper muscles are best exercised using small but precise movements. Exercising the deeper muscles also leads to improved posture, which may result in the appearance of weight loss even if very little weight was lost.\n\nPinckney also recommends exercising with clothing that highlights (not flatters) the body's natural shape, and exercising in bright light, to show up the body's imperfections to the exerciser.\n\n"}
{"id": "26639837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26639837", "title": "Cellulite", "text": "Cellulite\n\nCellulite (also known as adiposis edematosa, dermopanniculosis deformans, status protrusus cutis, gynoid lipodystrophy, and orange peel syndrome) is the herniation of subcutaneous fat within fibrous connective tissue that manifests topographically as skin dimpling and nodularity, often on the pelvic region (specifically the buttocks), lower limbs, and abdomen. Cellulite occurs in most postpubescent females. A review gives a prevalence of 85 to 98% of women, indicating that it is physiologic rather than pathologic. It can result from a complex combination of factors ranging from hormones to heredity.\n\nThe causes of cellulite include changes in metabolism, physiology, diet and exercise habits, obesity, sex-specific dimorphic skin architecture, alteration of connective tissue structure, hormonal factors, genetic factors, the microcirculatory system, the extracellular matrix, and subtle inflammatory alterations.\n\nHormones play a dominant role in the formation of cellulite. Estrogen may be the important hormone in the development of cellulite. However, there has been no reliable clinical evidence to support such a claim. Other hormones, including insulin, the catecholamines adrenaline and noradrenaline, thyroid hormones, and prolactin, are all believed to participate in the development of cellulite.\n\nThere is a genetic element in individual susceptibility to cellulite. Researchers led by Enzo Emanuele have traced the genetic component of cellulite to particular polymorphisms in the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and hypoxia-inducible factor 1A (HIF1a) genes.\n\nSeveral factors have been shown to affect the development of cellulite. Sex, race, biotype, distribution of subcutaneous fat, and predisposition to lymphatic and circulatory insufficiency have all been shown to contribute to cellulite.\n\nA high-stress lifestyle will cause an increase in the level of catecholamines, which have also been associated with the development of cellulite.\n\nCellulite is a multifactorial condition and can be resistant to the array of treatments currently available. Aside from 'topical' products (creams, ointments, etc) and injectables (eg collagenase), treatments for cellulite include non-invasive therapy such as mechanical suction or mechanical massage. Energy-based devices include radio frequency with deep penetration of the skin, ultrasound, laser and pulsed-light devices. Combinations of mechanical treatments and energy-based procedures are widely used. More invasive 'subcision' techniques utilise a needle-sized micro-scalpel to cut through the causative fibrous bands of connective tissue. Subcision procedures (manual, vacuum-assisted, or laser-assisted) are performed in specialist clinics with patients given local anaesthetic.\n\nCellulite is thought to occur in 80–90% of post-adolescent females.<ref name=\"doi 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03556.x\"></ref> There appears to be a hormonal component to its presentation. Its existence as a real disorder has been challenged and the prevailing medical opinion is that it is merely the \"normal condition of many women\". It is rarely seen in males, but is more common in males with androgen-deficient states, such as Klinefelter's syndrome, hypogonadism, postcastration states and in those patients receiving estrogen therapy for prostate cancer. The cellulite becomes more severe as the androgen deficiency worsens in these males.\n\nThe term was first used in the 1920s by spa and beauty services to promote their services, and began appearing in English-language publications in the late 1960s, with the earliest reference in \"Vogue\" magazine, \"Like a swift migrating fish, the word \"cellulite\" has suddenly crossed the Atlantic.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44660077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44660077", "title": "Community Health Clubs in Africa", "text": "Community Health Clubs in Africa\n\nCommunity health clubs (CHCs) also known as community hygiene clubs are voluntary community-based organizations in Africa dedicated to improving public health through the promotion of hygiene. CHCs are formed at the village level. The concept was developed and popularized by Africa AHEAD, a Zimbabwe NGO.\n\nThe idea of CHCs originated in Kenya, where Juliet Waterkeyn developed illustrations for training materials to be used for the Kenya Water for Health Organisation (KWAHO). She observed the living conditions and habits of rural Kenyan communities. She claimed that a lack of ownership was the cause for slow community development. The concept of CHC was developed to gather communities and communally discuss hygiene to improve the health of children..\n\nCommunity Health Workers (CHW) and Environmental Health Technicians (EHT) often help run the clubs. They receive one week of training; they are given the training materials and taught how to use them. \n\nThe two types of CHCs are Classic and Lite. The difference is the length of the training of the CHWs and the number of dialogue sessions that they are trained to offer.\n\nCHCs attract an average of 75 members, which includes an elected six member committee, a chairperson, a secretary and a Community Health Worker (CHW) facilitator. The facilitator is responsible for leading dialogue sessions and motivating club members to adopt better hygiene. Classic CHCs have a training session of 6 months where the club meets weekly to discuss one of the 20 - 24 dialogue sessions on health and hygiene. Lite CHCs have a training period of 3 months and discuss a total of 8 dialogue sessions concentrating only on WASH topics.\n\nAfter each session, members are given homework and are encouraged to complete it before the next session. Each member is given a membership card when they join the club, and the CHW is responsible for signing off the dialogue sessions attended by each member. A certificate of completion is awarded to club members that complete all dialogue sessions.\n\nThe four main CHC stages:\n\nMembers meet weekly for a two-hour session. During these sessions cards are used to engage members in discussions and debates on topics promoting health and hygiene. Various participatory activities take place that entertain and encourage members to get involved in the decision-making process on improving daily hygiene habits. Members are encouraged to make small changes in their own homes each week. These recommended practices rarely require financial expenditure and are solely habit changing . \n\nOnce club members begin to understand the transmission of germs. When a majority of the members become convinced, peer pressure makes sanitation a priority and club members help each other meet their new hygiene standards. Latrines and wells are dug, hand washing facilities are built without outside funds. The maintenance of water facilities is the responsibility of the CHC committee. At the end of this stage, high-risk habits have been replaced by safe hygiene practices and basic safe water and sanitation facilities are available.\n\nMembers focus on child survival and a balanced diet. Communal nutrition gardens are started by CHC members where produce is organised to maintain a balanced year-round diet. These gardens help to support vulnerable families. \n\nCHC meetings can result in the construction of a permanent meeting shelter, which can be used for day care for toddlers. Other clubs start income generating projects such as soap making, whilst others create saving and loan schemes to enable members to buy products needed to maintain hygiene standards. As most CHCs have more female members, the clubs end up becoming a safety net for mothers. \n\n"}
{"id": "15183839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15183839", "title": "Computerized neuropsychological assessment", "text": "Computerized neuropsychological assessment\n\nComputerized neuropsychological assessment helps neuropsychologists and psychologists to assess functions relative to possible brain damage using a software.\nFor more information about the tests, see Neuropsychological tests.\n\nCurrently there are some commercial packages available for buying. Once bought, they can be installed at a clinic and be used to assess patients.\n\nThere are some discussions on the effectiveness of computerized tests.\nThe detriments in using computerized versions are discussed in an article.\n\nComputerized tests have the following main benefits:\n\nResults are obtained as soon as the tests are finished – no need to consult tables or other informations.\n\nEvery rule is programmed in the software, so there will be no errors during the execution or getting the results.\n\nTo assess different hemispheric functions, some packages offer verbal and non verbal tests. These tests are applied according to Neuropsychological tests.\n\nBy having clinical applications, some universities develop their own packages, like University of Cambridge (CANTAB - Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery ) and Universidade Federal de São Paulo (NAFW - Neuropsychological Assessment Framework , LAACS - Lateralized Attention Assessment Computerized System and ThoughtFlow-Sys ).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7304558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7304558", "title": "Consumer-driven healthcare", "text": "Consumer-driven healthcare\n\nConsumer-driven healthcare (CDHC), defined narrowly, refers to third-tier health insurance plans that allow members to use health savings accounts (HSAs), Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs), or similar medical payment products to pay routine healthcare expenses directly, but a high-deductible health plan protects them from catastrophic medical expenses. High-deductible policies cost less, but the user pays medical claims using a prefunded spending account, often with a special debit card provided by a bank or insurance plan.\n\nIf the balance on this account runs out, the user pays claims just like under a regular deductible. Users keep any unused balance or \"rollover\" at the end of the year to increase future balances or to invest for future expenses. CDHC plans are subject to the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, which mandates that routine or health maintenance claims must be covered, with no cost-sharing (copays, co-insurance, or deductibles) to the patient.\n\nThis system is referred to as \"consumer-driven healthcare\" because claims are paid using a consumer-controlled account versus a fixed health insurance benefit. That gives patients greater control over their own health budgets. According to economist John C. Goodman, \"In the consumer-driven model, consumers occupy the primary decision-making role regarding the healthcare they receive.\"\n\nGoodman points to a McKinsey study which found that CDHC patients were twice as likely as patients in traditional plans to ask about cost and three times as likely to choose a less expensive treatment option, and chronic patients were 20% more likely to follow treatment regimes carefully.\n\nConsumer-driven healthcare received a boost in 2003, with passage of federal legislation providing tax incentives to those who choose such plans. Proponents argue that most Americans will pay less in the long haul under CDHC not only because their monthly premiums will be lower but also because the use of HSAs and similar products increases free-market variables in the healthcare system, fostering competition, which, in turn, lowers prices and stimulates improvements in service.\n\nCritics argue that it will cause consumers, particularly those less wealthy and educated, to avoid needed and appropriate healthcare because of the cost burden and the inability to make informed, appropriate choices. \"Consumer-driven healthcare is badly named, because it's certainly not driven by consumers,\" said Jonathan Oberlander. It is \"really just shifting the cost of healthcare onto the backs of the patients\". People with chronic illnesses, such as diabetes, will be hurt, because with a deductible of $3000 to $4000, such people will never be able to save anything in their savings accounts. \"Employers like it because they're going to save money,\" but they're not going to fund these healthcare accounts adequately, he said. \"Conservatives tend to support consumer-driven healthcare. They believe, as do a fair number of health economists, that people use too much healthcare, and use too much healthcare of little value. If you move to high-deductible plans, people will think twice. If I have a sore throat, instead of going to my physician, I'll have a cup of tea instead.\" \n\nConsumer-driven healthcare plans had their origin in the U.S. in the late 1990s. It was developed as a business model for health ventures. They were designed to engage consumers more directly in their healthcare purchases. The initial conceptual model made cost and quality information available to the consumer, usually through the Internet.\n\nHSAs are seen by proponents as a way to make healthcare more affordable and accessible in the U.S. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act, which included provisions designed to stimulate the popularity of these plans, was passed by Congress in November 2003 and signed into law by President Bush in December 2003. The law expanded medical savings accounts, renaming them Health Savings Accounts and created tax incentives to encourage adoption of high-deductible health plans. Banks were empowered to create HSAs, which deliver tax-free interest to the holders, who can then withdraw money tax free to pay for qualified expenditures. To qualify for an HSA, the purchaser must also have a qualifying high-deductible health insurance plan. Over time, participants are allowed to contribute more (cumulatively) to the savings account than would be required to fulfill their annual deductible for a given year (although annual limits on pre-tax contributions [other than a 1-time IRA rollover option] are well below the annual deductible), and any unused portions of the account accrue without tax penalty so long as the funds are used only for qualified medical expenses.\n\nFurther enhancements to HSAs went into effect in 2007. The combination of tax breaks for premiums and the health savings account as well as a tax subsidy to pay for the catastrophic insurance premium of lower income individuals has boosted the popularity of these plans. By April 2007, some 4.5 million Americans were enrolled in HSAs; more than a fourth of those were previously uninsured.\n\nAnother model of consumer driven healthcare is Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs), which are employer-funded, and in which employers receive the tax benefits.\n\nBy 2007, an estimated 3.8 million U.S. workers, about 5% of the covered workforce, were enrolled in consumer-driven plans. About 10% of firms offered such plans to their workers, according to a study by the Kaiser Family Foundation. In August 2008 the Atlanta Business Chronicle reported that enrollment in consumer-driven plans was increasing, accounting for 13% of all plans offered by employers.\n\nIn 2014, when major portions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act are implemented in the United States, high deductible plans and the concept of consumer-driven healthcare may become more popular. Although new federal tax subsidies will help reduce health insurance rates for many consumers, individuals and families that do not qualify, are expected to consider Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) if they do not have employer-sponsored coverage.\n\nOther countries with experience in this type of health insurance include China, Taiwan, Singapore and South Africa.\n\nResearchers at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota (Stephen T. Parente), Harvard University (Meredith Rosenthal), University of Illinois at Chicago (Anthony LoSasso) and RAND Health Insurance Experiment have examined results of these plans. Health insurers, Aetna, Wellpoint, Humana and UnitedHealth Group have all provided their own independent analyses as well.\n\nIn general, most studies, starting with the RAND study, conclude that increasing the costs (co-payments and deductibles) to the patient reduces the consumption of healthcare, but it reduces the consumption of both appropriate and inappropriate care, and the reduction is greater for low-income patients. For example, Joseph Newhouse, in summarizing the RAND study, reported that visits to doctors and hospitals decline with higher cost sharing, \"although for low income families such cutbacks reduced their use of beneficial as well as unnecessary services and was estimated to have increased rates of death from preventable illness.\" However, proponents counter these findings with studies indicating that CDHCs have broad appeal, provide a new option for the uninsured, and are leading to new incentives for people to be more engaged in managing their health. One study found that the levels and trends of use of preventive and screening services by enrollees in consumer-directed health plans (CDHPs) was similar to that of enrollees in Preferred provider organization (PPO) plans. The authors concluded that \"[p]eople enrolled in CDHPs such as those we studied do not underuse preventive services to any greater degree than do those in traditional PPOs.\"\n\nThe Kaiser Family Foundation studied how consumer-driven health plans cover pregnancy. They found wide variations in cost sharing. Pregnant women could face exposure to high out-of-pocket costs under consumer-driven health plans, particularly when complications arise. In one scenario, a complicated pregnancy, with gestational diabetes, pre-term labor, cesarian section and neonatal intensive care, would cost $287,000. Under some consumer-directed health plans, the cost to the family would be $6,000, less than some traditional policies. But under other consumer-directed health plans, the cost to the family would be as high as $21,000.\n\nKey to CDHC's success is ready access of plan users to information about health products, services, and pricing. Critics of CDHC argue that the system will only saddle consumers with more expenses because free-market variables can never exist in healthcare due to lack of pricing transparency. \"Despite the theory (as expressed in the Economic Report of the President) that health insurance with higher deductibles will lead to consumers shopping around for health services (based on price and quality), the reality of...inadequate information in the marketplace about health care quality and prices precludes the workability of a 'consumer-choice' type of model,\" Gail Shearer, director of health policy analysis for Consumers Union, told the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress in February 2004.\n\nJessie Gruman, who interviewed 200 patients and families about how they used scientific information after devastating medical diagnoses, said, \"I fear that the trend toward consumer-driven healthcare will disproportionately damage the health of the less educated and less wealthy, and that the net effect on the nation's health has already proved negative.\" She concluded that most patients are unable to make critical decisions about their healthcare in the consumer-driven model. Some people, called \"monitors,\" track down detailed information, while other people, called \"blunters,\" don't want information. One blunter, a theoretical physicist, said he would be \"insulted\" if someone read 15 papers on theoretical physics and asked him to help design an experiment; he pays his doctor to explain his choices. A \"monitor,\" a lawyer, applied her legal research skills but couldn't think clearly enough to decide. People turn to the Internet, become overwhelmed, or don't understand the significance of the information. \"Most health information is bad news,\" is stressful, and makes decisions even more difficult.\n\nAccording to Robert Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and vice chairman of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, \"Accessible information on the quality, price, effectiveness and efficiency of healthcare services and providers is developing rapidly, but is nowhere near the minimum standard assumed by well functioning CDHC. And employers, bound in part by Treasury Department regulations, do not vary deductibles, catastrophic caps or contributions to HSAs and HRAs to workers' family incomes or health status as equitable CDHC would call for...Many things we buy in health care are pieces of larger packages which are undefined when the decisions are made concerning whether to purchase and where to purchase. For example, when one goes to the doctor because of a particular set of symptoms, the doctor ask a number of questions which leads to a series of recommended tests whose results then determine an appropriate treatment regime. One could select the doctor to visit on the basis of price and quality but that is no guarantee that the package of tests and treatments that resulted would be the lowest cost or highest quality...The costs of the really expensive treatments would be largely unaffected.\"\n\nBut proponents of CDHC, such as former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, have pointed to the rise of the Internet and online comparative shopping health services as one reason they believe the CDHC model is viable. In 2006, several technology firms, such as Vimo, HealthSouk and My Health Direct, emerged to take advantage of what they believe will be a new market for comparative health care shopping with the rise of CDHC plans and with the goal of leveraging the Internet to increase price transparency in the health care market.\n\nResults of consumer satisfaction studies regarding consumer-driven health plans have been mixed. While a 2005 survey by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association found widespread satisfaction among HSA customers, a survey published in 2007 by employee benefits consultants Towers Perrin came to the opposite conclusion; it found that employees currently enrolled in such plans were significantly less satisfied with many elements of the health benefit plan compared to those enrolled in traditional health benefit plans.\n\nSome policy analysts say that patient satisfaction does not reflect quality of healthcare. Researchers at RAND Corp. and the Department of Veterans Affairs asked 236 elderly patients from 2 managed care plans to rate their care, and then examined care in medical records, as reported in \"Annals of Internal Medicine\". There was no correlation found. \"Patient ratings of healthcare are easy to obtain and report, but do not accurately measure the technical quality of medical care,\" said John T. Chang, UCLA, the study's lead author.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27221282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27221282", "title": "Darko Milinović", "text": "Darko Milinović\n\nDarko Milinović (born 25 April 1963) is a Croatian politician and gynecologist who served as Minister of Health and Social Welfare from 2008 until 2011.\n\nMilinović was born in Gospić. After graduating from the University of Zagreb School of Medicine in 1987, Milinović went on to specialise gynaecology, passing his specialty exam in 1996. He spent most of his professional career practicing in his home town of Gospić, and from 1998 to 2002 he held the post of the Gospić General Hospital director.\n\nAfter joining the centre-right Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) in the 1990s he obtained his first political post when he was appointed a member of the Gospić city council in 1998. In 2000 he was made member of the HDZ central committee and from 2000 to 2002 was head of HDZ in the city of Gospić. From 2002 to 2003 he held the office of deputy head of the Lika-Senj County. Following HDZ's victory in the 2003 parliamentary elections Milinović was elected to the Croatian Parliament. From 2003 to 2008 he held posts of Deputy Speaker of the Parliament and was a member of the parliamentary committee for family affairs, youth and sports.\n\nAfter HDZ won the 2007 elections Milinović was appointed Minister of Health and Social Welfare in the new cabinet headed by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader on 12 January 2008, replacing Neven Ljubičić who had held the post from 2005 to 2008. Following Sanader's abrupt resignation on 1 July 2009, the cabinet was reconstructed and Milinovć retained his post in the new cabinet headed by Sanader's successor, Jadranka Kosor, which was officially announced on 6 July 2009.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43812756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43812756", "title": "Experimental Bacteriology", "text": "Experimental Bacteriology\n\nExperimental Bacteriology: in Its Applications to the Diagnosis, Epidemiology, and Immunology of Infectious Diseases is a textbook on bacteriology and infectious diseases. It was one of the most authoritative works in medical microbiology in the first half of the 20th century.\n\nAimed at medical students and practitioners, it has been published in ten/eleven editions in German, and in editions in French and English. The first edition appeared in 1906, written by Wilhelm Kolle and Heinrich Hetsch, and the book is frequently referred to as \"Kolle-Hetsch.\" The eighth (1938) and ninth (1942) editions were edited by Hetsch and Hans Schlossberger. The last, significantly revised and largely newly written edition, numbered as a combined tenth and eleventh edition, was published in 1952 by Urban & Schwarzenberg (now Elsevier) with Hans Schlossberger as general editor, and with contributions from H. Brandis, B. Schmidt, H.G. Haussmann, , I. Weimershaus-Eckart, , A. Kutzsche and W. Weimershaus. Although Schlossberger was general editor, much of the editing work was done by Brandis.\nA French translation appeared in 1910, published by Doin, and an English edition was published in 1934 by Allen & Unwin.\n\n"}
{"id": "31210181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31210181", "title": "Eye care in Ghana", "text": "Eye care in Ghana\n\nThe eye care system in Ghana can be said to be one in its infant or growing stages. Today there are less than 300 eye care professionals taking care of the eye needs of over 23 million Ghanaians.\nSince Ghana's independence on March 6, 1957, there has been much work done to promote and improve the eye care needs of Ghanaians. The main groups who are championing this goal now are the Ghana Society of Ophthalmologists, ophthalmic nurses group of ghana and the Ghana Optometric Association.\n\nThe Ophthalmological Society of Ghana is a professional body of ophthalmologists in Ghana which governs the practice of ophthalmology in Ghana. At its inauguration in 1992, there were only 15 members including several expatriates. As of 2011, their numerical strength has increased to 50 with not less than 5 expatriates. Their objectives include promoting good eye health in Ghana and maintaining professionalism in their profession as ophthalmologists. Their activities include organizing continuous medical education for their members and collaborating with each other and members of other ophthalmological societies around the world to improve patient care. They are associated with the Illinois College of Optometry, the American Academy of Ophthalmology, and the WGA.\n\nThe Ghana Optometric Association (GOA) is the country's governing body for the optometry profession. Since 2009 all optometrists wanting to be members have been required to write a professional exam. Upon successfully passing the exam, the certification required to practice optometry is awarded. The group has about 200 members. In 2010 the Ghana Optometric Association along with the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology's Faculty of Distance Learning rolled out a two-year program to offer all members of GOA who did not have the Doctor of Optometry degree to enroll for it.\nThe Nurses and midwives council is the statutory body that regulate the activities of ophthalmic nursing practice in Ghana. The ophthalmic nurses group of Ghana is a professional body that serves as the mouth piece of the ophthalmic nurses in Ghana. The group has a membership drive of about 500 nurses spread out across the country. they serve as first point of call in eye care. They also collaborate with other health care professionals in the county to provide eye care service for the teaming populates.\n\nThe Ministry of Health through its hospitals and health facilities is the main provider of eye care services in the country. Over the years it has taken various initiatives to train more eye care professionals through the various universities, teaching hospitals, nursing schools, training schools, etc. The aim of the Ministry of Health is to ensure that there is at least one functioning eye unit in every district of the country. Despite the current work, much work is still needed to improve access to eyecare in Ghana due to the low number of eye care professionals per 1000 people. Another group that is helping the Ministry of Health is the Christian Health Association of Ghana. Thirty-five percent of Ghana's health service provision is done by the Christian Health Association of Ghana. Most of the facilities that CHAG runs have eye clinics and these aid in service delivery in those towns and villages that are situated in.\n\nThe services that eye care professionals offer are varied and include:\n\nThe chart below shows the number of eye care professionals in the various regions and also the progress made to restore sight to people with Cataracts in 2005.\n\nDespite a population exceeding 2.1 million, the eighteen districts in Ghana's Western Region are among the least resourced in terms of eyecare services. Professional eye care services are available in four districts, Wassa West, Bibiani/Anhwiaso/Bekwai, Ahanta West and Shama Ahanta East Metropolitan.\n\nIn 2005 there were five eye care specialists in the region, comprising two ophthalmologists, two optometrists, one optician and an ophthalmic nurse. Specialists operate from the Imperial Eye Care Centre and the SAEMA district hospital in Takoradi, and from the Government Hospitals in Tarkwa and Dixcove. Supporting services are provided by the region's 106 general practitioners. International assistance is offered through Operation Eyesight Universal, which funds three district hospital satellite eye clinics in the Western Region.\n\nTeaching hospitals in Ghana train medical doctors for a period of three to five years in Ophthalmology. A total of at least ten years is needed to train an individual from the Undergraduate level to the level of an Ophthalmologist in Ghana.\n\nThe first optometrist school in Ghana started at the department of Physics, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in 1992. The first class had just five students and were under the tutelage of Ghana's first Optometrist, Dr. K Monny. It was opened to only to those who had had their first degrees in either Biochemistry, Physics or Biology. Graduates from the school were awarded the Postgraduate Diploma in Optometry (Pg. Dip. Optometry). In 2000, a four-year Bachelor of Science Degree program was started to phase out the Pg. Dip. Optometry program and also accelerate the training of more eye care professionals in Ghana. In 2004, just as the first batch of Optometrist with the BSc. Degree had graduated, they were enrolled for the two-year Doctor of Optometry (O.D) program. They passed out in 2007. In 2002, the University of Cape Coast also rolled out its Doctor of Optometry program. Five students enrolled for the program and graduated with the 2008 batch of O.Ds from KNUST. Today, there are about two hundred Optometrists in Ghana working hand-in-hand with other eye care professionals to save sight.\n\nTrained nurses who wish to become ophthalmic nurses undergo a one-year post nursing school training in eye care at the Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital. Their training involves training in detection of eye condition and referring to the right eye care professional for treatment. They also are trained in managing common disease conditions of the eye as well as training to assist the Ophthalmologist in surgery.\n\nThe Oyoko town in the New Juaben district of the Ashanti Region hosts Ghana's only school for the training of opticians. Secondary school graduates who qualify undergo a three-year training in lens glazing and fitting, optics and a lot more to qualify as an optician. They work closely with Optometrists in refractive therapy and refraction.\n\nThere are a lot of ocular conditions in Ghana and as of now virtually all conditions can be treated in the country including those that require laser surgery. Occasionally, though, some conditions require the individual being taken outside the country for treatment. Below are the more common conditions in Ghana.\n\nGhana is ranked second in worldwide statistics for the prevalence of glaucoma. It is estimated that 600,000 Ghanaians are said to be suffering from glaucoma out of the number, 30,000 are likely to become blind if the disease is left untreated. The statistics continues to show that 8.5 percent of persons above 40 years have the disease and 7.7 percent of persons above 30 years also are with the disease. Furthermore, 15 to 20 percent of blindness cases in Ghana are due to glaucoma. The Ghana Health Service (GHS) is the government agency responsible for health care administration and delivery in the country. GHS has over the years initiated various programs aimed at improving the eye care system in the country. One of such measure is the celebration of World Sight Day which falls on every second Thursday in October. In 2008, the day was celebrated under the theme “Eyes on the Future - Fight Vision Impairment in Later Life Now In Ghana, it is only the Ophthalmologist and optometrist who are licensed to manage glaucoma.\n\nThere are many challenges in the growth of eye care sector in Ghana:\n\nAs the average Ghanaian becomes more enlightened concerning they eye and its conditions, eyecare professionals would be required to do more too for his or her patient. The major concerns that eye patients raise are:\n\nWith respect to the above most eye care professionals the world over are adapting ICT to help the patient better. With respect to the long wait hours, various Electronic Medical Records EMRs are being used. These do away with paper and manual recording of patient data. As such the patient does not need to wait for his or her records before seeing the doctor. EMRs the world over have been shown to reduce doctor-patient interactions by up to three times. Ghanaian Optometrist are now turning to the use of EMRs to improve their daily work. Those who are using these EMRs bear witness to this fact and are continually advocating for the use of EMRs among their colleagues. One of the EMRs in use in Ghana are:\n\nConcerning patient education, various ICT tools are also being used. They include:\n\nWith all these new changes the sky will indeed be the limit for the well trained, well informed, computer assisted eyecare professional. And this will in turn impact positively on the Ghanaian who will seek their services.\n\nDue to the general living conditions of the country, many citizens of Ghana are unable or unwilling to access eye care when their income is too low to pay for basic living essentials. The low number of eye care professionals in the country along with the living standard need to improve before eye care is readily accessible in Ghana. As the number of professionals in the field increase, Ghanaians will experience available, accessible and afford eye care services throughout the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "33378042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33378042", "title": "Fallon Health", "text": "Fallon Health\n\nFounded in 1977, Fallon Health (formerly Fallon Community Health Plan) is a Worcester, Massachusetts-based provider of health insurance and health care services. In partnership with Weinberg Campus, Fallon Health also operates Fallon Health Weinberg, a health insurance company based in Amherst, New York.\n\nFallon Health's product portfolio includes HMO, POS and PPO plans as well as Medicaid and Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, Fallon Health offers a Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly, called Summit ElderCare®, and a Medicare Advantage Special Needs Plan/Senior Care Options program, called NaviCare.\n\nFallon Health Weinberg offers a Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE), a Managed Long Term Care (MLTC) plan and a Medicare Advantage Health Maintenance Organization Special Needs Plan (HMO SNP) to dual-eligible residents of the Western New York counties of Erie and Niagara.\n"}
{"id": "54061938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54061938", "title": "Flyability", "text": "Flyability\n\nFlyability is a UK based charity that works to help disabled people fly hang gliders and paragliders. It is the disability initiative of the British Hang Gliding and Paragliding Association, the governing body of hang gliding and paragliding in the UK.\n\nSchools with close links to Flyability include Airways Airsports, EscapeXC and Flying Frenzy \n\nRegistered on 13 November 1996 by Steve Varden, John Crosbie, Pamela Hughes and Mark Hastings. This followed an intensive period of organising and fundraising within the hang gliding and paragliding community.\n\nFlyability works closely with British Disabled Flying Association (now Aerobility).\nFlyability is one of the chosen charities of Access Unlimited. Generous donations from the Lakes Charity Classic event allowed Flyability to expand into offering pilot scholarships with continued financial support over the years.\n\nFlyability loans out specialist equipment to BHPA schools for training disabled people. This includes a range of paragliding buggies including the Flychair, the Swanton, the Chevron paragliding wheelchair and the Sanderson. Flyability was involved in encouraging the development of some of these buggies and has passed some of their older buggies onto disabled flying organisations in other countries. One Sanderson buggy has even got as far as New Zealand where Making Trax and Infinity Paragliding use it.\n\nFlyability offers scholarships for tandem flights and Elementary and Club Pilot training.\n\nFlyability has a presence at a number of flying events around the UK. Recent events have included Farnborough 2016 and Flyer Live 2016 on the Aerobility stands. Flyability also attended and was a beneficiary of the Richard Westgate Memorial Fly-in in 2013\n\nFlyability and Aerobility ran a combined \"Try Everything!\" event in June 2016 offering flights for disabled people in hang gliders, microlights and aerobatic gliders and motor gliders.\n\nFlyability and their activities are often reported in national, local and specialist press reports.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12201424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12201424", "title": "Global Initiative for Asthma", "text": "Global Initiative for Asthma\n\nThe Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) is a medical guidelines organisation which works with public health officials and health care professionals globally to reduce asthma prevalence, morbidity, and mortality. GINA was launched in 1993 as a collaboration between National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, and the World Health Organization.\n\nGINA conducts continuous review of scientific publications on asthma and is a leader in disseminating information about the care of patients with asthma. GINA publishes resources such as evidence-based guidelines for asthma management, and runs special events such as World Asthma Day. GINA's guidelines, revised each year, are used by clinicians worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "36392650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36392650", "title": "Graz tube weaning model", "text": "Graz tube weaning model\n\nThe Graz tube weaning model () is a method that supports parents, caregivers and professionals to help and empower medically fragile children with early and post-traumatic eating behavior disorders, particularly tube dependency.\n\nEnteral feeding via a tube (nasogastric tube, PEG or jejunostomy) is commonly used in the treatment of premature infants and young children to support them during periods of severe illness and health disorders when a child is unable to swallow food safely. In specific cases, tube feeding is a necessary intervention, however, it can cause problems when it comes to tube weaning and resuming an oral diet.\n\nChildren may suffer from food aversion when fed without a tube and resist natural oral feeding. This effect is caused by a combination of physical and psychological disorders, which are addressed during a tube weaning program.\n\nThe Graz tube weaning model was developed by a multidisciplinary team based at the Children’s Hospital, Graz during the 1990s and first published in 2000.\n\nTube weaning program is specifically designed for premature infants and children who are fed via a nasogastric, nasojejunal, gastrostomy or jejunostomy tube. The treatment is performed either when the feeding tube is no longer needed or if children experience side effects and poor response to enteral feeding. The program is suitable both for primary weaning and children that had been unsuccessfully weaned in the past. It is especially recommended for children that are struggling with oral feeding or have developed tube dependency.\n\nTube weaning is contraindicated in children who do not have a safe swallowing response. It is not recommended if there is a high possibility of an upcoming surgery or intervention that will require further usage of a feeding tube.\n\nOne of the medical risks is weight loss. Losing up to 10% of a child’s weight is expected in the transition from exclusive enteral feeding to oral intake and is acceptable during the initial phase of treatment.\n\nThere's also risk of choking and aspiration. Children are assessed for risk of choking and aspiration prior to starting the tube weaning process and are excluded from learning to eat if aspiration or choking is a medically confirmed finding.\n\nThe original technique is an intense 3-week inpatient treatment program. The child is admitted to the unit with at least one parent or caregiver and has ongoing input from multiple therapists, as well as medical rounds several times a day and 24-hour support from nursing and medical staff. This method is especially suitable for children with co-existing, notable health issues when close medical supervision is highly recommended.\n\nThe child and parent/caregiver attend multiple therapy sessions:\n\nThe treatment includes daily play picnic, which is usually lasts one hour. Children spend time in a room where food is attractively portioned/positioned and usually served on the floor. Using a psychoanalytically based play therapy, children may choose to examine, touch or taste the available food. According to the program, children must become self-motivated and no encouragement or distraction is received from parents. Parents’ interactions are monitored by video and one-way mirrors with positively-framed feedback given after each session. During the rest of the time, food is freely available to the child with no offering or encouragement.\nSince its development, the method has been modified so that children can attend on an outpatient basis, or treated remotely by a net coaching program.\n\nStudies in 2001 and 2010 have shown a 95% (n=62) and 92% (n=221) success rate respectively (success being defined as obtaining all nutrition orally) in children treated with this approach. Follow-up contacts show that fully weaned children have increased BMIs when measured after treatment compared to when they were entirely tube fed.\n2014 study compared inpatient treatment and Netcoaching approaches and showed 90.5% (n=169) and 81.3% (n=209) success rates respectively.\n"}
{"id": "21249943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21249943", "title": "Health care in Poland", "text": "Health care in Poland\n\nHealth care in Poland is free and is delivered through a publicly funded health care system called the National Health Fund (in Polish: Narodowy Fundusz Zdrowia), which is free for all the citizens of Poland provided they fall into the \"insured\" category (usually meaning that they have their health insurance paid for by their employer, or are the spouse or child of an insured person). According to Article 68 of the Polish Constitution everyone has a right to have access to health care. Citizens are granted equal access to the publicly funded healthcare system. In particular, the government is obliged to provide free health care to young children, pregnant women, disabled people and to the elderly. However, private healthcare use is very extensive in Poland. Patients who are uninsured have to pay the full cost of medical services. According to study conducted by CBOS in 2016, out of 84% patients taking part in survey, 40% declare to use both private and public health services, 37% use only public health care and 7% use only private health services. 77% of all responders declare using of private health care is caused by long awaiting for public health care services.\n\nThe main financing source is health insurance in the National Health Fund. Citizens are obligated to pay insurance fee (redistributed tax) which is 9% deducted from personal income (7,75% is deducted from the tax, 1,25% covered by insured goes directly to the National Health Fund). \nNational budget covers around 5% of all health care expenses. Since 2007 emergency rescue services are financed in total from national budged.\nTotal health expenses in Poland are covered in 70% by health insurience in the National Health Fund, where the remaining 30% comes from private healthcare \n\nStructure of health system in Poland is regulated in following acts: \nStakeholders can be expressed in categories below:\n\n\nAccording to The Act 240 dated 27.08.2004 about Health Care Public Founding, access to health care services can be provided if patient is able to confirm having health insurance by presenting document like:\n\nThe basis of health care system is primary care physician (first contact physician), who is most commonly specialist in family health. Primary care physician is responsible for conducting treatment and taking preventive actions for assigned patients. If sickness requires intervention of specialist, first contact doctor issues referral to hospital or other health care unit.\n\nReferral is not needed in units specialized in:\nReferral is required to get access to: \nReferral is not required from:\n\nEmergency Medical Services (, RM) in Poland are a service of public, pre-hospital emergency healthcare, including ambulance service, provided by the individual Polish cities and counties. These services are typically provided by the local, publicly operated hospital, and are generally funded by the government of Poland. In a number of cases, the hospitals contract these services to private operators. In addition to publicly funded services, there are a variety of private-for-profit ambulance services operating independently.\n\nThe following is a listing of the clinical and university hospitals in Poland:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHealth care system in Poland is experiencing problems from many years. According to Euro Health Consumer Index 2016, Poland is on 31. Place out of 35.\nMain problems listed in Health Consumer Index 2016 are: \n"}
{"id": "24413096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24413096", "title": "Health in Russia", "text": "Health in Russia\n\nHealth in Russia deteriorated rapidly following the collapse of the Soviet Union, particularly for men, as a result of social, economic, and lifestyle changes. It has now improved considerably.\n\nBefore the revolution annual mortality was 29.4 per 1000 and infant mortality 260 per 1000 births. In 1913 life expectancy was 32 years. The cholera epidemic of 1910 killed 100,000 people. A typhus epidemic between 1918 and 1922 caused 2.5 million deaths, and doctors were particularly affected. There was an outbreak of malaria in 1920. The Institute of Tropical Medicine in Moscow instituted a programme of registration of cases and free distribution of quinine. The famine of 1921/2 caused widespread starvation. As many as 27 million people were affected. Another cholera outbreak between 1921 and 1923 caused an estimated 13 million deaths. By 1926 life expectancy had reached 44 years.\n\nAs of 2013, the average life expectancy in Russia was 65.1 years for males and 76.5 years for females. The average Russian life expectancy of 71.6 years at birth is nearly 5 years shorter than the overall average figure for the European Union, or the United States.\n\nThe biggest factor contributing to this relatively low life expectancy for males is a high mortality rate among working-age males from preventable causes (e.g., alcohol poisoning, stress, smoking, traffic accidents, violent crimes). Mortality among Russian men rose by 60% since 1991, four to five times higher than European average.\n\nAs a result of the large difference in life expectancy between men and women, (the greatest in the world) the gender imbalance remains to this day and there are 0.859 males to every female.\n\nIn 2008, 1,185,993, or 57% of all deaths in Russia were caused by cardiovascular disease. The second leading cause of death was cancer which claimed 289,257 lives (14%). External causes of death such as suicide (1.8%), road accidents (1.7%), murders (1.1%), accidental alcohol poisoning (1.1%), and accidental drowning (0.5%), claimed 244,463 lives in total (11%). Other major causes of death were diseases of the digestive system (4.3%), respiratory disease (3.8%), infectious and parasitic diseases (1.6%), and tuberculosis (1.2%).\n\nThe infant mortality rate in 2008 was 8.5 deaths per 1,000, down from 9.6 in 2007. Since the Soviet collapse, there has been a dramatic rise in both cases of and deaths from tuberculosis, with the disease being particularly widespread amongst prison inmates.\n\nUntil 2007 Russia was the world leader in smoking. According to a survey reported in 2010 by Russia’s Health and Social Development Ministry, 43.9 million adults in Russia are smokers. Among Russians aged 19 to 44 years, 7 in 10 men smoke and 4 in 10 women smoke. It is estimated that 330,000-400,000 people die in Russia each year due to smoking-related diseases. A smoking ban was introduced in 2014.\n\nAlcohol consumption and alcoholism are major problems in Russia.\nIt is estimated that Russians drink 15 litres (26 pints) of pure alcohol each year. This number is nearly 3 times as much as it was in 1990. In Moscow on September 24 of 2009, Russia's interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev cited the average intake at an estimated 18 liters a year; \"In Russia, each person, including babies, accounts for about 18 liters of spirits per year. In the opinion of WHO experts, consumption of more than 8 liters per year poses a real threat to the health of the nation. Russia has long exceeded this level\". It has even been reported that excessive alcohol consumption is to blame for nearly half of all premature deaths in Russia.\n\nA recent study blamed alcohol for more than half the deaths (52%) among Russians aged 15 to 54 from 1990 to 2001. For the same demographic, this compares to 4% of deaths for the rest of the world.\n\nHIV/AIDS, virtually non-existent in the Soviet era, rapidly spread following the collapse, mainly through the explosive growth of intravenous drug use. According to a 2008 report by UNAIDS, the HIV epidemic in Russia continues to grow, but at a slower pace than in the late 1990s. At the end of December 2007 the number of registered HIV cases in Russia was 416,113, with 42,770 new registered cases that year. The actual number of people living with HIV in Russia is estimated to be about 940,000. In 2007, 83% of HIV infections in Russia were registered among injecting drug users, 6% among sex workers, and 5% among prisoners. However, there is clear evidence of a significant rise in heterosexual transmission. In 2007, 93.19% of adults and children with advanced HIV infection were receiving antiretroviral therapy.\n\nIn April 2006, the State Council met with the Russian President to set goals for developing a strategy for responding to AIDS; improving coordination, through the creation of a high-level multisectoral governmental commission on AIDS; and establishing a unified monitoring and evaluation system. A new Federal AIDS Program for 2007 - 2011 was also developed and adopted. Federal funding for the national AIDS response in 2006 had increased more than twentyfold compared to 2005, and the 2007 budget doubled that of 2006, adding to the already substantial funds provided by the main donor organizations.\n\nCoordination of activities in responding to AIDS remains a challenge for Russia, despite increased efforts. In 2006, treatment for some patients was interrupted due to delays in tender procedures and unexpected difficulties with customs. Additionally, lack of full commitment to an in-depth program for education on sex and drugs in schools hinders effective prevention programs for children.\n\nIn 2008, suicide claimed 38,406 lives in Russia. With a rate of 27.1 suicides per 100,000 people, Russia has one of the highest suicide rates in the world, although it has been steadily decreasing since it peaked at around 40 per 100,000 in the mid-late 90s, including a 30% drop from 2001 to 2006. In 2007 about 22% of all suicides were committed by people aged 40–49, and almost six times as many Russian males commit suicide than females.\n\nHeavy alcohol use is a significant factor in the suicide rate, with an estimated half of all suicides a result of alcohol abuse. This is evidenced by the fact that Russia's suicide rate since the mid-90s has declined alongside per capita alcohol consumption, despite the economic crises since then; alcohol consumption is more of a factor than economic conditions.\n\nThe pulmonary TB death rate in Russia around 1900 was 4 per 1000, more than double the rate in London. The All Russia League for the Struggle Against TB was set up in 1909. In 1919 the Commissariat of Public Health established a TB Commission. The incidence of tuberculosis in Moscow was about three times that in London in 1922. The director of the Institute of Control of Serums and Vaccines in Russia, Tarasevich, brought a serum of the BCG vaccine from the Pasteur Institute in 1925 and a vaccination programme started shortly afterwards, starting with children in homes with an active TB patient, but there was initially very low take up. It was not until the 1930s that rates increased significantly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35722648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35722648", "title": "History of Japanese cuisine", "text": "History of Japanese cuisine\n\nThis article traces the history of cuisine of Japan. Foods and food preparation by the early Japanese Neolithic settlements can be pieced together from archaeological studies, and reveals paramount importance of rice and seafood since early times. \n\nThe Kofun period (3rd to 7th centuries) is shrouded in uncertainty. Some entries in Japan's earliest written chronicles hint at a picture of food habits from the time of the formation of the Yamato dynasty. When Buddhism became widely accepted with the rise of the Soga clan, a taboo on the eating meat (especially mammals) began to be enforced, and became common practice, although wild game was still being taken by mountain people, and would be eaten by townspeople when the opportunity arose. \n\nTreatises on ceremony, tax documents, and fiction allows one to make a list of food ingredients used, and basic preparation methods in the Heian period. However anything like recipes from the Middle Ages are a rare commodity in Japan or any country. \n\nRecords throughout Middle Ages may give some idea of the dishes being enjoyed, but do not give details such as to provide accurate recipes. \n\nOnce Japan entered the Edo period, there were rich records of foods and cuisine from commoners (i.e., non-samurai), who were largely literate, and produced a great deal of wood-block printed literature.\n\nFollowing the Jōmon period, Japanese society shifted from semi-sedentary hunter-gatherer lifestyle to an agricultural society. This was the period in which rice cultivation began, having been introduced by China. Rice was commonly boiled plain and called \"gohan\" or \"meshi\", and, as cooked rice has since been the preferred staple of the meal, the terms are used as synonyms for the word \"meal\". Peasants often mixed millet with rice, especially in mountainous regions where rice did not proliferate.\n\nDuring the Kofun period, Chinese culture was introduced into Japan from Korea. As such, Buddhism became influential on Japanese culture. After the 6th century, Japan directly pursued the imitation of Chinese culture of the Tang dynasty. It was this influence that marked the taboos on the consumption of meat in Japan. In 675 AD, Emperor Tenmu decreed a prohibition on the consumption of cattle, horses, dogs, monkeys, and chickens during the 4th-9th months of the year; to break the law would mean a death sentence. Monkey was eaten prior to this time, but was eaten more in a ritualistic style for medicinal purposes. Chickens were often domesticated as pets, while cattle and horses were rare and treated as such. A cow or horse would be ritually sacrificed on the first day of rice paddy cultivation, a ritual introduced from China. Emperor Temmu's decree, however, did not ban the consumption of deer or wild boar, which were important to the Japanese diet at that time.\n\nThe 8th century saw many additional decrees made by emperors and empresses banning the killing of any animals. In 752 AD, Empress Kōken decreed a ban on fishing, but made a promise that adequate rice would be given to fishermen whose livelihood would have otherwise been destroyed. In 927 AD, regulations were enacted that stated that any government official or member of nobility that ate meat was deemed unclean for three days and could not participate in Shinto observances at the imperial court.\nIt was also the influence of Chinese cultures through Korea that brought chopsticks to Japan early in this period. Chopsticks at this time were used by nobility at banquets; they were not used as everyday utensils however, as hands were still commonly used to eat. Metal spoons were also used during the 8th and 9th centuries, but only by the nobility. Dining tables were also introduced to Japan at this time. Commoners used a legless table called a \"oshiki\", while nobility used a lacquered table with legs called a \"zen\". Each person used his own table. Lavish banquets for the nobility would have multiple tables for each individual based upon the number of dishes presented.\n\nUpon the decline of the Tang dynasty in the 9th century, Japan made a move toward its individuality in culture and cuisine. The abandonment of the spoon as a dining utensil – which was retained in Korea – is one of the marked differences, and commoners were now eating with chopsticks as well. Trade continued with China and Korea, but influence en masse from outside Japan would not be seen again until the 19th century. The 10th and 11th centuries marked a level of refinement of cooking and etiquette found in the culture of the Heian nobility. Court chefs would prepare many of the vegetables sent as tax from the countryside. Court banquets were common and lavish; garb for nobility during these events remained in the Chinese style which differentiated them from the plain clothes of commoners.\n\nThe dishes consumed after the 9th century included grilled fish and meat (\"yakimono\"), simmered food (\"nimono\"), steamed foods (\"mushimono\"), soups made from chopped vegetables, fish or meat (\"atsumono\"), jellied fish (\"nikogori\") simmered with seasonings, sliced raw fish served in a vinegar sauce (\"namasu\"), vegetables, seaweed or fish in a strong dressing (\"aemono\"), and pickled vegetables (\"tsukemono\") that were cured in salt to cause lactic fermentation. Oil and fat were avoided almost universally in cooking. Sesame oil was used, but rarely, as it was of great expense to produce.\n\nDocuments from the Heian nobility note that fish and wild fowl were common fare along with vegetables. Their banquet settings consisted of a bowl of rice and soup, along with chopsticks, a spoon, and three seasonings which were salt, vinegar and \"hishio\", which was a fermentation of soybeans, wheat, sake and salt. A fourth plate was present for mixing the seasonings to desired flavor for dipping the food. The four types of food present at a banquet consisted of dried foods (\"himono\"), fresh foods (\"namamono\"), fermented or dressed food (\"kubotsuki\"), and desserts (\"kashi\"). Dried fish and fowl were thinly sliced (e.g. salted salmon, pheasant, steamed and dried abalone, dried and grilled octopus), while fresh fish, shellfish and fowl were sliced raw in vinegar sauce or grilled (e.g. carp, sea bream, salmon, trout, pheasant). \"Kubotsuki\" consisted of small balls of fermented sea squirt, fish or giblets along with jellyfish and \"aemono\". Desserts would have included Chinese cakes, and a variety of fruits and nuts including pine nuts, dried chestnuts, acorns, jujube, pomegranate, peach, apricot, persimmon and citrus. The meal would be ended with sake.\n\nThe Kamakura period marked a large political change in Japan. Prior to the Kamakura period, the samurai were guards of the landed estates of the nobility. The nobility, having lost control of the Japanese countryside, fell under the militaristic rule of the peasant class samurai, with a military government being set up in 1192 in Kamakura giving way to the period. Once the position of power had been exchanged, the role of the court banquets changed. The court cuisine which had prior to this time emphasized flavor and nutritional aspects changed to a highly ceremonial and official role.\n\nMinamoto no Yoritomo, the first \"shōgun\", punished other samurai who followed the earlier showy banquet style of the nobility. The shōgun banquet, called ōban, was attended by military leaders from the provinces. The ōban originally referred to a luncheon on festival days attended by soldiers and guards during the Heian period, and was attached to the warrior class. The menu usually consisted of dried abalone, jellyfish \"aemono\", pickled ume called \"umeboshi\", salt and vinegar for seasoning, and rice. Later in the period, the \"honzen-ryōri\" banquet became popularized.\n\nThe cuisine of the samurai came distinctly from their peasant roots. The meals prepared emphasized simplicity while being substantial. The cuisine avoided refinement, ceremony and luxury, and shed all further Chinese influence. One specific example is the change from wearing traditional Chinese garb to a distinct clothing style that combined the simple clothing of the common people. This style evolved into the kimono by the end of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Buddhist vegetarian philosophy strengthened during the Kamakura period as it began to spread to the peasants. Those who were involved in the trade of slaughtering animals for food or leather came under discrimination. Those practicing this trade were considered in opposition to the Buddhist philosophy of not taking life, while under the Shinto philosophy they were considered defiled. This discrimination intensified, and eventually led to the creation of a separate caste, the burakumin.\n\n"}
{"id": "17355069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17355069", "title": "Indian Health Transfer Policy", "text": "Indian Health Transfer Policy\n\nThe Indian Health Transfer Policy of Canada, provided a framework for the assumption of control of health services by Aboriginal Canadians and set forth a developmental approach to transfer centred on the concept of self-determination in health. Through this process, the decision to enter into transfer discussions with Health Canada rests with each community. Once involved in transfer, communities are able to take control of health program responsibilities at a pace determined by their individual circumstances and health management capabilities.\n\nTo put Health Transfer in context, it is useful to understand from a historical perspective how First Nations, Inuit, Métis and the Federal Government through Indian and Northern Affairs have worked together to respond to Aboriginal peoples expressed desire to manage and control their own health programs.\n\nFederal Government Policy Paper which proposed to remove the status of treaty individuals under the Indian Act and to discontinue special services so identified, advocating the increased assimilation of Indigenous people into the culture of Canada.\n\nAboriginal response to the White Paper emphasizing federal responsibility for health care to First Nation peoples and emphasizing plans to strengthen community control of their lives and of government-delivered community programs.\n\nThe White and Red Papers served as an impetus for the collaborative effort of the Federal Government and Aboriginal to begin serious planning for the future.\n\nThis resulted in the 1975 paper, The Canadian Government/The Canadian Indian Relationships, which defined a policy framework for strengthening Indian control of programs and services. In the health sector, under contribution agreements 75% of the Bands became responsible for such programs as the Native Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program and the Community Health Representative Program.\n\nThe stated goal of the Indian Health Policy adopted by the Federal Government on September 19, 1979, is \"to achieve an increasing level of health in Indian communities, generated and maintained by the Indian communities themselves\". In this regard the policy recognized the historic responsibilities of both federal and provincial governments in providing health services to First Nations and Inuit people, and it removed the issue of treaty rights from health policy considerations to where it rightly belonged – Indian Affairs. The policy reasoned that improvements to the health status of the Indian population should be built on three pillars: (1) community development, both socio-economic and cultural/spiritual, to remove the conditions which limit the attainment of well-being; (2) the traditional trust relationship between Indian people and the federal government; and (3) the interrelated Canadian health system, with its federal, provincial, municipal, Indian and private sectors.\n\nA further important aspect of the new policy was the recognition that First Nation and Inuit communities could take over any or all aspect(s) of the administration of their own community health programs, at their discretion and with the support of the Department of National Health and Welfare.\n\nThe report of the Advisory Committee on Indian and Inuit Health Consultation known as the \"Berger Report\". Recommended methods of consultation that would ensure substantive participation by First Nations and Inuit people in the design, management and control of health care services in their communities.\n\nThe Report of the Special Committee on Indian Self-Government knows as the \"Penner Report\" recommended that the Federal government establish a new relationship with First Nations and Inuit people and that an essential element of this relationship be recognition of Indian Self-Government. The report identified health as a key area for takeover.\n\nFirst Nations and Inuit Health Branch sponsored demonstration projects for First Nations. The experiment was initiated to provide both Federal and First Nation authorities with the same substantive information with respect to First Nation control of health services.\n\nThe Sechelt Indian Band Self-Government Act was passed by Parliament in 1986. In April of the following year, the British Columbia Legislative Assembly unanimously passed a bill to give the Sechelt community municipal status. Consequently, the Sechelt Indian Band signed the first Self-Government agreement in which a First Nation community assumed control of their health services.\n\nIn order for First Nations and Inuit Health Branch to proceed with health transfer to First Nations as part of administrative reform, the policy framework, authorities and resources had to be developed and secured. A Subcommittee on the Transfer of Health Programs to Indian Control was established with representation from First Nations with experience in health care. The Subcommittee incorporated the experiences from the Community Health Projects and recommended a developmental and consultative approach for health transfer. These recommendations were then used to finalize the health transfer policy framework.\n\nOn March 16, 1988, the Federal Government Cabinet approved the health transfer policy framework for transferring resources for Indian health programs south of the 60th parallel to Indian control through a process which:\n\npermits health program control to be assumed at a pace determined by the community, i.e., the community can assume control gradually over a number of years through a phased transfer;\nenables communities to design health programs to meet their needs;\nrequires that certain mandatory public health and treatment programs be provided;\nstrengthens the accountability of Chiefs and Councils to community members;\ngives communities:\nthe financial flexibility to allocate funds according to community health priorities and to retain unspent balances;\nthe responsibility for eliminating deficits and for annual financial audits and evaluations at specific intervals;\npermits multi-year (three to five year) agreements;\ndoes not prejudice treaty or Aboriginal rights;\noperates within current legislation;\nis optional and open to all First Nation communities south of the 60th parallel.\n\nIn 1989, Treasury Board approved the financial authorities and resources to support pre-transfer planning and to fund community health management structures.\n\nThe process is designed to occur within the present funding base of federal health programs for First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples. Communities are required to provide certain mandatory programs such as communicable disease control, environmental and occupational health and safety programs, and treatment services.\n\nInitially, the enthusiasm for this process was varied. For some, it was seen as an important link to Self-Government where the community plans and controls health programs in their communities according to its own priorities. It was seen as a way to develop programs relevant to a community's own cultural and social needs. Others took a more hesitant approach. As the uptake of control of health services by First Nations increased, the Indian Health Transfer Policy began to be seen increasingly by First Nations people as a stepping stone towards the inherent right of Self-Government.\nTransfer became the cornerstone of Health Canada's relationship with First Nations and Inuit communities. Health Services Transfer Agreements between Health Canada and First Nation and Inuit provided the opportunity for communities or First Nations and Inuit organizations to manage their own health programs and services. At first, Transfer was the only option communities had for increasing their control over health programs and services beyond Contribution Agreements. Although many communities were interested in assuming increased control over health services and programs, not all communities were ready to move into this level of control so quickly. It became increasingly apparent that one design could not fit all the diversity of readiness. Some communities expressed interest in alternative strategies which would also give them increased control of resources.\n\nEach year brought pressures for change and restructure in the transfer approach. First Nations and Inuit Health Branch searched for ways to respond to communities desiring to increase their control of community resources, either through the transfer process, or through other initiatives. This movement was further supported by a decision of the Departmental Executive Committee of Health Canada on March 15, 1994, which directed First Nations and Inuit Health Branch to commence planning all activities toward the following goals:\n\nthe devolution of all existing First Nations and Inuit Health Branch Indian health resources to First Nations and Inuit control within a time frame to be determined during consultations with First Nations and Inuit communities; moving First Nations and Inuit Health Branch out of the health care service delivery business; the transfer of knowledge and capacity to First Nation and Inuit communities so that they can manage and administer their health resources; a refocused role for First Nations and Inuit Health Branch; and a refocused role for Health Canada which will take into account First Nations and Inuit Health Branch's strategic direction.\n\nIn further support the search for alternative pathways to transfer, in late 1994, Treasury Board approved the Integrated Community-Based Health Services Approach as a second transfer option for communities to move into a limited level of control over health services.\n\n1995 saw the distribution and implementation of Pathways to First Nations Control Report of Project 07 Strategic Planning Exercise. This cornerstone document set the essential differences between The Integrated Approach and Transfer. The Integrated Approach is an intermediate measure which provides more flexibility than Contribution Agreements, but less flexibility than the Transfer Agreement.\n\nIn 1995, the federal government announced the inherent Right to Self-Government Policy . This policy recognizes First Nations and Inuit have the constitutional right to shape their own forms of government to suit their particular historical, cultural, political and economic circumstances. The policy thus introduced a third option for communities to further increase their control of health services.\n\nSelf-governance gives Bands more flexibility to establish program priorities in response to tribal needs rather than following Federal program objectives. Bands are able to expand, consolidate and create new programs to improve services to their communities and to make certain laws governing their community with respect to health. Furthermore, the range of resources for health programs which can be included in a Self-Government arrangement is greater than those included in a Health Service Transfer arrangement and may eventually include fixed assets and services under the Non-Insured Health Benefits Program. The flexibility in terms of how resources are allocated is also greater and reporting requirements are fewer.\n\nFirst Nations and Inuit peoples will determine the pace at which Self-Government arrangements proceed. Putting the arrangements in place will of course take time. The process will require intense local or regional negotiations between First Nations and Inuit peoples, the federal government and the provincial or territorial government concerned. Figure 3 depicts the status of First Nations and Inuit control activities at the close of the first decade of transfer, March 31, 1999. The uptake of transfer has steadily increased over the past decade the maps on figure 3 present a progressive overview of the rate of uptake of transfer by First Nation and Inuit communities starting in year one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52822695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52822695", "title": "Infection rate", "text": "Infection rate\n\nAn infection rate (or incident rate) is the probability or risk of an infection in a population. It is used to measure the frequency of occurrence of new instances of infection within a population during a specific time period.\n\nThe number of infections equals the cases identified in the study or observed. An example might by HIV infection during a specific time period in the defined population. The population at risk are the cases appearing in the population during the same time period. An example would be all the people in a city during a specific time period. The constant, or K is assigned a value of 100 to represent a percentage. An example would be to find the percentage of people in a city who are infected with HIV: 6,000 cases in March divided by the population of a city (one million) multiplied by the constant (K) would give an infection rate of 0.6%.\nCalculating the infection rate is used to analyze trends for the purpose of infection and disease control.\n\nAn online infection rate calculator has been developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that allows the determination of the Streptococcal A infection rate in a population.\n\nHealth care facilities routinely track their infection rates according to the guidelines issued by the Joint Commission. The healthcare-associated infection (HAI) rates measure infection of patients in a particular hospital. This allows rates to compared with other hospitals. These infections can often be prevented when healthcare facilities follow guidelines for safe care. To get payment from Medicare, hospitals are required to report data about some infections to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN). Hospitals currently submit information on central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSIs), catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs), surgical site infections (SSIs), MRSA Bacteremia, and \"C. difficile\" laboratory-identified events. The public reporting of these data is an effort by the Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nFor meaningful comparisons of infection rates, populations must be very similar between the two or more assessments. However, a problem with mean rates is that they cannot reflect differences in risk between populations,\n\n"}
{"id": "56401377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401377", "title": "Integrated Opisthorchiasis Control Program", "text": "Integrated Opisthorchiasis Control Program\n\nThe Integrated Opisthorchiasis Control Program, commonly known as the \"Lawa Project\", located in Khon Kaen Province, Thailand, is an effort to reduce chronic infection by the Southeast Asian liver fluke (\"Opisthorchis viverrini\") among the native peoples of Isan (; ), the northeast region of Thailand. The project operates under the aegis of the Tropical Disease Research Laboratory, Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University. It is directed by Banchob Sripa. Its aim is to eliminate the practice of consuming raw or undercooked fish, the major cause of liver fluke infection and bile duct cancer in the region. The project is unique in that it follows the principles of EcoHealth, a One Health approach to improving human and animal health. The project has been the subject of newspaper and TV reports by BBC, \"The New York Times\", and \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe project area consists of several villages around the \"Kaeng Lawa\" (Thai: แก่งละว้า), a lake and wetlands about 25 kilometers south of the city of Khon Kaen. The people's primary occupations are rice farming and fishing. The lake is a source of the cyprinid fish that the locals consume raw in dishes known as \"koi pla\" and \"pla som\", which are often infested with the cysts or metacercariae of the liver fluke. Cats and dogs also ingest the fish, making them hosts for the fluke. Northeast Thailand still has the highest incidence of bile duct cancer in the world, and the prevalence of \"O. viverrini\" infection in some villages in Khon Kaen Province has reached 100 percent.\n\nThe first attempts at opisthorchiasis control in Thailand began in the 1950s and included education on liver fluke infection and safe cooking, but these efforts had limited success since the consumption of raw fish dishes is an ingrained part of the rice-fish culture of the indigenous people. With the introduction of praziquantel in the 1980s, treatment became a part of the program. The prevalence of infection was reduced, but after funding reductions during the economic crises in the 1990s, prevalence rates rose again to as high as 85 percent in some areas of the northeast by 2009. In 2007, researchers at Khon Kaen University, led by Banchob Sripa, decided to take a more multidisciplinary approach, incorporating EcoHealth principles, which involve the collaboration of human and animal health specialists toward improving the health of people, animals and the environment as well as achieving greater understanding of how the ecosystem affects human and animal health. The \"Lawa model\" as it became known, involves community participation as a key element. Village health volunteers, staff of local sub-district hospitals, teachers, and others maintain a campaign of continuous education, teaching in the community and the schools about liver fluke disease and discouraging the consumption of raw or undercooked fish. The campaigns often involve \"edutainment\" activities (songwriting, dancing, and music) to attract public attention.\n\nAfter implementation of the Lawa model, the prevalence of infection declined from 67 percent to 16 percent over three years in Lawa village with little reinfection after treatment, a common reason for failure in the past. An intensive program in nine schools in the village reduced infection to undetectable levels. In 2012, the schools were certified as liver fluke free. Infection typically begins in childhood, leading to the lifelong chronic infection that often results in cancer.\n\nAn analysis conducted by the university on the social return on investment estimates a return of 3.47 relative to resources invested, with the primary benefit going to villagers and especially the children of the students who should avoid a lifetime of chronic infection and its possible consequences. Such projects are hard to assess solely on the basis of an economic analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1561112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561112", "title": "Isolation (psychology)", "text": "Isolation (psychology)\n\nIsolation () is a defence mechanism in psychoanalytic theory first proposed by Sigmund Freud. While related to repression the concept distinguishes itself in several ways. It is characterized as a mental process involving the creation of a gap between an unpleasant or threatening cognition, and other thoughts and feelings. By minimizing associative connections with other thoughts, the threatening cognition is remembered less often and is less likely to affect self-esteem or the self concept. \nFreud illustrated the concept with the example of a person beginning a train of thought and then pausing for a moment before continuing to a different subject. His theory stated that by inserting an interval the person was \"letting it be understood symbolically that he will not allow his thoughts about that impression or activity to come into associative contact with other thoughts.\" As a defense against harmful thoughts, isolation prevents the self from allowing these cognitions to become recurrent and possibly damaging to the self-concept.\n\nA wide range of studies supports the conclusion that people defend themselves against threats by mentally isolating them. Repressors have been shown to process information in a rushed, shallow, or minimal fashion. When presented with some negative information, they will often generate spontaneous happy thoughts or feelings, minimizing its impact. Depressed people process information much more thoroughly, whether it is good or bad. This high level of processing develops strong associative links with similar information. When a depressed person tries to avoid a damaging cognition, they often think of some other negatively affecting thought. Evidence from human and animal studies shows that isolation prompts sensitivity to social threats and motivates the renewal of social connections.\n\nOne study showed that people would remain satisfied with their performance in the face of negative feedback as long as they could keep the feedback isolated from performance standards. The researchers would present the standards either before the performance, or after the performance but before the feedback, or after both the performance and the feedback. The people who received the standards early recalled them as well as the others, but simply ignored it. They managed to isolate their feedback from the standards thereby minimizing the threat to their self-esteem. Those who received the standards later were less satisfied with their performance, unable to avoid their lack of success as compared to the norm. This form of isolation has been referred to as trivializing.\n\nAnother noteworthy type of isolation is referred to as \"temporal bracketing\", in which some perceived failure or shortcoming is buried away in one's past, effectively removing its impact on the current self. This type of separation from the past can be seen in religious conversion or \"born again\" experiences, in certain drug addiction recovery programs, and in the throwing away of delinquent files in the legal system. These socially accepted practices effectively make isolation socially permissible, at least in certain instances; and those behaviors seem to relieve some of the stress from past events. People with low self-esteem often use temporal bracketing when describing past failures. By isolating themselves from whatever misdeed they are bringing to cognition, they contend that it has nothing to do with their current state or relationships with people.\n\nHabitual repressors have been shown to have fewer unhappy memories than other people, but the difference rests in the secondary associations. Research of repressors concluded that they had equally strong negative reactions to bad memories, however those memories did not evoke other negative feelings as much as they did for non-repressors. The phrase, \"architecture of less complex emotions\" was created to describe this phenomenon. Repressors have bad memories just like anyone else, but are less troubled by them because they are relatively isolated in memory. The most current researchers have agreed that isolation is one of the more effective and important mechanisms of defense from harmful cognitions. It is a coping mechanism that does not require delusions of reality, which makes it more plausible than some alternatives (denial, sublimation, projection, etc.). Further research will be needed for accounts of isolation to be considered fully concrete.\n"}
{"id": "53433436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53433436", "title": "John Alexander (doctor)", "text": "John Alexander (doctor)\n\nJohn Alexander was a well-known medical health officer for the county of Caithness, North Scotland until his death on December 5, 1901.\n\nAlexander married Georgina Duguid, of Aberdeenshire. His brother, Alexander Alexander, was also in the medical industry.\n\nA few years after John Alexander's death, a monument in Wick was erected in his memory. It still stands today on a small hill beside the local railway station. Alexander's grave is located in Watten Cemetery, where he is buried alongside his wife, two nephews, his great nephew, and his second great niece.\n"}
{"id": "17624270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17624270", "title": "Juvenile hemochromatosis", "text": "Juvenile hemochromatosis\n\nJuvenile hemochromatosis (or hemochromatosis type 2) is, as its name indicates, a form of hemochromatosis which emerges during youth.\n\nThere are two forms:\n\nSome sources only specifically include hemojuvelin as a cause of juvenile hemochromatosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "542180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542180", "title": "Lake Tisza", "text": "Lake Tisza\n\nLake Tisza (), also known as Kisköre Reservoir (Hungarian: \"Kiskörei-víztározó\"), is the largest artificial lake in Hungary. It is located at the southeastern edge of Heves county, next to counties Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok.\n\nAs part of the ongoing Tisza River flood control project, the Tisza Dam was built in 1973. Its filling was finished in the 1990s, resulting a 127 km² lake. The lake is 27 km in length, with an average depth of 1.3 m and a maximum depth of 17 m; it contains 43 km² of small islands.\n\nFollowing the reservoir's completion, Hungarians began to flock to the site for holidays, since it compared favorably with the crowded and expensive Lake Balaton, the traditional holiday site. As a result, tourist infrastructure has been developed on the reservoir—renamed Lake Tisza—and the government has designated it an official tourism destination.\n\nThe lake (or reservoir) has a new local ecology with a diversity of birds, plants, and animals.\n\nLake Tisza Ecocentre in Poroszló was erected to collect and display the nature and wildlife of the Tisza River valley and Lake Tisza. It was opened to the public on 27 April 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "9025052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025052", "title": "List of UN numbers 2401 to 2500", "text": "List of UN numbers 2401 to 2500\n\nThe UN numbers from UN2401 to UN2500 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "23463344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23463344", "title": "Lone worker monitoring", "text": "Lone worker monitoring\n\nLone worker monitoring is the practice of monitoring the safety of employees who may be exposed to risk due to work conditions in which they are located out of sight and sound from a person who may be able to offer aid in the event of an emergency.\n\nIn some areas including the United Kingdom Australian States and certain Provinces in Canada, legislation has driven the adoption of lone worker policies as well as methods of monitoring the safety of these employees. In the United States, no explicit legislation exists regarding an employer's obligation to monitor the safety of its lone or isolated employees except in the shipbuilding industry.\n\nNumerous methods have been developed and are currently in use by companies world-wide. These methods include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "798837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=798837", "title": "Maria Weizmann", "text": "Maria Weizmann\n\nMaria Weizmann (; born 1893) was a sister of Israeli politician and scientist Chaim Weizmann (the first President of the State of Israel). She graduated from a university in Switzerland and worked as a doctor in Moscow from 1915.\n\nMaria Weizman and her husband V.M. Savitsky were long denied the right to emigrate from the Soviet Union by the authorities (see also refusenik). Her husband was arrested in 1949.\n\nOn February 10, 1953 she was arrested in connection with the alleged Doctors' plot. Her case was handled by the GRU (as opposed to MGB as it was common), an evidence of its importance to the Soviet regime. After Joseph Stalin's death and the admission by the Soviet leadership that the \"plot\" was made up, she was still kept in Lubyanka prison, and released only on August 12, 1953. Weizmann immigrated to Israel in 1956.\n\nShe was officially rehabilitated after Perestroika in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "33326681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33326681", "title": "MaryAnn Baenninger", "text": "MaryAnn Baenninger\n\nMaryAnn Baenninger is a psychology professor and president of Drew University, a Methodist-affiliated liberal arts college in Madison, New Jersey.\nBaenninger received a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Psychology from Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. After serving as a psychology professor on the faculty of The College of New Jersey (formerly Trenton State College) in Ewing, New Jersey, and as an executive associate director with the Middle States Commission on Higher Education in Philadelphia, Baenninger was appointed as president of College of Saint Benedict in Saint Joseph, Minnesota in 2004. During her tenure at the private Roman Catholic college for women, Baenninger is \"credited with building out the school’s study abroad programs, attracting international students and supporting undergraduate research. She also won praise for diversifying the student body and more than doubling the school’s endowment.\" In February 2014, Drew University's board of trustees chose Baenninger as its first full-term female president. She succeeded Vivian A. Bull, who had replaced Robert Weisbuch on an interim basis after he stepped down in June 2012.\n\nBaenninger is married to Ron Baenninger, a retired Temple University psychology professor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32092819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32092819", "title": "Miguel Canela Lázaro", "text": "Miguel Canela Lázaro\n\nMiguel Canela Lázaro was born in Santiago de los Caballeros, Dominican Republic, on September 29, 1894, the son of Pedro Canela (also born in Santiago) and Dolores Antonia Lázaro (a Spaniard). He died in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic on December 1, 1977. \n\nThe Rouvière and Canela ligament (shown in Fig. 15 of \"Anatomy of the ankle ligaments: a pictorial essay\" \n) is named after him and his supervisor at the University of Paris, Henri Rouvière, for their joint work\n\nHe was also a conservationist and a diplomat. He received both a surveyor (1917) and medicine doctorate (1924) degrees from the University of Santo Domingo.\n\n"}
{"id": "13984371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13984371", "title": "Mosul Dam", "text": "Mosul Dam\n\nMosul Dam (), formerly known as Saddam Dam (), is the largest dam in Iraq. It is located on the Tigris river in the western governorate of Ninawa, upstream of the city of Mosul. The dam serves to generate hydroelectricity and provide water for downstream irrigation. At full capacity, the structure holds about of water and provides electricity to the 1.7 million residents of Mosul.\n\nThe dam's main power station contains four Francis turbine–generators. A pumped-storage hydroelectricity power plant with a capacity of and a run-of-the-river dam downstream with a capacity also belong to the Mosul Dam scheme. It is the fourth largest dam in the Middle East, as measured by reserve capacity, capturing snowmelt from Turkey, some north.\n\nBuilt on a karst foundation, concerns over the dam's instability have led to major remediation and rehabilitation efforts since the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nThe Mosul Dam is a tall and long earth-fill embankment-type with a clay-core. The width of the crest is . At an elevation of above sea level, the reservoir, named Lake Dahuk, withholds of water. Of that capacity is active (or useful for power and downstream releases) and is inactive (dead) storage. On the east side of the dam is the service spillway which is controlled by five radial gates and has a maximum discharge capacity of . Further to the east is a fuse-plug-controlled emergency spillway with a capacity.\n\nAt the toe of the dam on its west side is the main hydroelectric power station (Mosul 1). It contains four Francis turbine-generators for an installed capacity of 750 MW. Behind the power station are four surge tanks. Downstream of the dam is the Mosul regulation dam, which serves to regulate the tail-waters of the main dam but to generate electricity as well. The hydroelectric plant (Mosul 2) has an installed capacity of 62 MW with four 15.5 MW Kaplan turbine-generators. Immediately upstream of the dam is the 240 MW pumped-storage power station (Mosul 3). It serves as a peaking power station by pumping water to small reservoir above Lake Dahuk, storing it, then releasing the water back down to two 120 reversible-Francis turbines during peak energy usage. The entire Mosul multi-purpose project has an installed capacity of 1,052 MW.\n\nDevelopment of Iraq's rivers progressed rapidly in the mid-20th century as the country sought to control water resources for agriculture and to prevent flooding in Baghdad. Planning for the Mosul Dam began in the 1950s with the help of Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, a British firm who identified a location in 1953. In 1956, the Iraq Development Council contracted Koljian American to carry out studies for an irrigation dam at the location. The studies were completed the next year when Iraq asked the Harza Company to carry out a similar investigation who recommended a different location in 1960, based on karst foundations for two other recommended locations. In 1962, Iraq sought a third opinion from the Soviet Technoprom Export company who recommended a separate site. A fourth company, a Finland firm, Imatran Voima carried out a study in 1965 and a fifth company, Geotehnika of Yugoslavia, carried out studies in 1972. Based off the findings of all five companies which cited complex foundations, Iraq had a French firm, Soletanch, to carry out in-depth geological studies which occurred between 1974 and 1978. In 1978 the Swiss Consultants Consortium became the official consultants for the dam.\n\nDuring Saddam Hussein's rule, the construction of the Mosul Dam began in 1981 by a German-Italian consortium that was led by Hochtief Aktiengesellschaft. Because the dam was constructed on a foundation of soluble gypsum, the engineers recommended thorough grouting within the foundation before the superstructure was built. Instead, to speed construction of the dam, engineers blanket-grouted deep around the foundation and a curtain directly below the dam. A grouting gallery that would allow continuous grouting of the dam's foundation in order to promote stability was also installed. Construction was complete in 1984 and in the spring of 1985, the Mosul Dam began to inundate the Tigris River, filling the reservoir which submerged many archaeological sites in the region. The power station began generating power on 7 July 1986. Because of significant structural stability issues associated with the Mosul Dam, ongoing grouting and additional construction and repairs are necessary. In 1988, Iraq began construction on the Badush Dam downstream which would serve the primary purpose of absorbing and releasing a Mosul Dam flood wave in the event of a breach. Works were halted in 1991 though due chiefly to UN sanctions.\n\nIn early April 2003, following the invasion of Iraq by a U.S.-led coalition, military intelligence had developed several scenarios, including one in which Iraqi forces would have wired the dam for detonation. This would release the high waterline of the lake reservoir, to reach Mosul in about two hours. Subsequent investigation found nearly 500 dam workers to still be at work nearly a month after pay had stopped being distributed.\n\nFor several weeks in July and August 2014, Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS or ISIL) held Mosul Dam. On August 7, 2014, the organization captured the dam complex from the Peshmerga. ISIL's control of the dam created fears that its power supply could be restricted or that its water flows to downstream areas would be greatly inhibited. In a less likely scenario, there were worries the dam could be breached, causing widespread flooding and destruction downstream.\n\nOn August 17, 2014, the Peshmerga and the Iraqi Army launched a successful operation to retake control of the dam from ISIL militants. United States airstrikes assisted the Kurdish and Iraqi military, damaging or destroying 19 vehicles belonging to ISIS, as well as striking an ISIL checkpoint near the dam.\n\nThe earthen embankment dam is located on top of gypsum, a soft mineral that dissolves in contact with water. Continuous maintenance is required to plug, or \"grout\", new leaks with a liquefied slurry of cement and other additives. More than of material have been injected into the dam since leaks began forming shortly after the reservoir was filled in 1986, and 24 machines currently continuously pump grout into the dam base. Between 1992 and 1998 four sinkholes formed downstream of the dam and a fifth sinkhole developed east of the dam in February 2003 that was filled several times. In August 2005 another sinkhole developed to the east.\n\nA September 2006 report by the United States Army Corps of Engineers noted, \"In terms of internal erosion potential of the foundation, Mosul Dam is the most dangerous dam in the world.\" The report further outlined a worst-case scenario, in which a sudden collapse of the dam would flood Mosul under of water and Baghdad, a city of 7 million, to , with an estimated death toll of 500,000. A report on 30 October 2007 by the US Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR) said that the dam's foundations could give way at any moment.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", \"One study says that if the dam collapses, Mosul would be submerged within hours. Another warns that half a million Iraqis could be killed by floodwaters, and more than a million forced from their homes. Disease and looting as the floodwaters raced through Baiji, Tikrit, Samarra, and even parts of Baghdad would complete that dreadful scenario.\" Nadhir al-Ansari, an engineer involved in the building of the dam who is currently Professor of Engineering at the Luleå University of Technology, Sweden, said that the floodwaters would take four hours to reach Mosul and 45 hours to reach Baghdad, and that more than a million people would be killed if a \"good evacuation plan\" were not in place.\n\nIn 2004, dam manager Abdulkhalik Thanoon Ayoub ordered the dam's water level, which can reach above sea level, to have a maximum of , thus reducing the pressure on the structure. Nevertheless, Iraqi officials maintain that the U.S. government is overstating the risk. The Army Corps of Engineers has proposed that the Badush Dam downstream be completed to serve its purpose of obstructing the large wave that would result if the Mosul Dam collapsed. This has been resisted by Iraqi officials, who note that the current plan for the Badush Dam is US$300 million to provide hydroelectric power and help irrigation while the proposed expansion would cost $10 billion.\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers developed and executed a US$27 million plan to help continue maintenance and repairs on the dam in the short-term. The Iraq Government was also recommended a long-term solution that includes the construction of deep walls around the dam foundation. The project would cost $4 billion and take approximately four to five years to complete.\n\nMaintenance had been deferred during the Battle for Mosul Dam due to security concerns, and many workers did not work both because of the risk of attacks by ISIL and lack of pay. Half of the workers who worked at the dam have quit because they had not been paid for more than five months, and budget shortfalls and political infighting between the Kurdish regional government and the central government of Iraq have made it difficult to hire new workers. Together these factors have made Mosul Dam the \"most dangerous dam in the world\", because there are \"almost certainly an unprecedented level of untreated voids\" in the dam's foundation.\"\n\nGrowing instability concerns due to the previous control of the dam by ISIL, and poor security led the Iraq government to award a US$2 billion contract to an Italian company, Trevi, in December 2015. The contract covers repairs to the dam and the Italian government plans to send 450 additional troops to provide security at the dam site.\n\nIn January 2016, U.S. General Sean MacFarland warned that the dam might undergo a \"catastrophic\" collapse. He added, \"What we do know is this—if this dam were in the United States, we would have drained the lake behind it.\" Maintenance had suffered as ISIL had removed equipment and chased technicians away in August 2014, and the grouting schedule had not been maintained. He indicated that contingency plans are in the works to protect people downstream in case of a collapse. Some Iraqi officials continued to dismiss claims of a potential failure. In February 2016, the Minister of Water Resources, Muhsin al-Shammari, stated \"The looming danger to Mosul dam is one in a thousand. This risk level is present in all the world's dams.\"\n\nIn February 2016, the United States Embassy in Iraq warned of a \"serious and unprecedented\" danger of the dam collapsing and suggested that plans for evacuation should be made, as the cities Mosul, Tikrit, Samarra, and Baghdad could be at risk in the event of collapse, and that up to 1.5 million people could be killed due to the ensuing flash floods. The Prime Minister of Iraq, Haider al-Abadi, repeated these concerns, and called for citizens in Mosul to evacuate and move at least 3.5 miles away from the river, a proposal that was criticized by Professor al-Ansari: \"What are all these people, millions of people, supposed to do when they get 6 km away? There is no support for them there. Nothing to help them live.\"\n\nOn February 29, a Trevi spokesman said that the contract had still not been signed. There were concerns that the dam could collapse before the repair works begin. On March 2, 2016, the Iraqi government announced that the contract with Trevi was finalized and signed. A team of Italian specialists from Trevi arrived on April 14 to set up camp for the group of engineers who are expected to arrive within a few weeks. Italian Defence Minister Roberta Pinotti met Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi on May 9 to discuss logistics for deploying 450 troops near the frontline with ISIL to protect the workers carrying out repairs on the dam. Trevi started working on the dam in September 2016.\n\nThe repairs were started in October 2016. In May 2017, Iraqi Minister of Water Resources Hassan Janabi stated that no danger to the dam remained and it was going back to normal operation. Carlo Crippa, the project manager, said the dam structure now showed no significant signs of distress. However, constant maintenance will be necessary, as \"the rocks of the foundations are prone to dissolution due to the circulation of water.\" Five waterways that controlled the flow of water into the dam became operational after 12 years, with Janabi saying the water level was at the highest level since 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9121918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9121918", "title": "No Smoking (2007 film)", "text": "No Smoking (2007 film)\n\nNo Smoking is a 2007 Indian neo-noir psychological thriller film written and directed by Anurag Kashyap and co-produced by Vishal Bhardwaj and Kumar Mangat. The film stars John Abraham, Ayesha Takia, Ranvir Shorey and Paresh Rawal in the lead roles, while Bipasha Basu appears in an Item number. The film is loosely based upon the short story \"Quitters, Inc.\" by Stephen King, which was previously adapted as one of three segments featured in Hollywood anthology film, \"Cat's Eye\" (1985). It became the first Indian film to be adapted from a Stephen King short story. The story follows K (Abraham) a self-obsessed, narcissist chain smoker who agrees to kick his habit to save his marriage and visits a rehabilitation centre, but is caught in a labyrinth game by Baba Bengali (Rawal), the man who guarantees he will make him quit.\n\nThe film released worldwide on 26 October 2007, but was met with a lukewarm response from Indian critics and mixed response from overseas critics. The film did not perform well at the box office either, becoming one of the major disasters of the year. According to Kashyap, the film failed because, it was considered much ahead of its time, courtesy of its dark and unusual storyline comprising with elements of surrealism, fantasy, dream, reality, horror and dark humour which left critics and the cinema-goers baffled, this was frowned upon by Indian audiences, as it was unconventional, pretentious and they had never seen anything like it..But in later years the film received positive reviews and has become a cult film.\n\n\"No Smoking\" was nominated at several award ceremonies in 2008, primarily for the technical aspects of the film, including 3 Filmfare award nominations. Before a full cinematic release in India, the film was invited to be screened at the Rome Film Festival where it won huge appreciation from the audience and critics alike. In 2011 the film was played at several film festivals in India and China, receiving unanimous applause and praise, as well as winning a number of awards.\n\nThe film begins with a man waking up in decrepit old house in an unknown area. He gets a call from his wife enquiring where he is. The man doesn't know where he and searches the house for a cigarette. He accidentally opens a room and finds it filled with Russian soilders. One of the them starts chasing him and opens fire at him. The man gets shot in the leg and jumps into a bathtub he finds in the snow.\nThe man wakes up in a bathtub. The man is revealed to be'K' (John Abraham) a wealthy businessman in his 30s, and a heavy chain-smoker. He is confident, narcissistic and very arrogant in nature. His family and friends beg him to quit smoking, to no avail. K's friend Abbas (Ranvir Shorey) and his doctor (Kiku Sharda), offer to set up an appointment at a rehabilitation centre called 'Prayogshaala' ('The Laboratory'), which they claim will surely rid K of his habit. K finally relents after his wife Anjali (Ayesha Takia) leaves him, unable to take the strain K's smoking addiction places on their relationship.\n\nK decides to check out Prayogshaala, and meets Shri Shri Prakash Guru Ghantal Baba Bengali Sealdahwale (Paresh Rawal). The centre operates behind the front of another business, 'Kalkatta Karpets'. K finds the building to be unconventional and confusing, similar to a Labyrinth. The method Prayogshaala uses to cure their patients of their addiction is based on fear and psychological manipulation. Each time a patient gives in to their vice, Baba makes sure that something shocking happens to them.\n\nThe first offense is almost killing a loved one, by keeping him/her in a chamber full of cigarette smoke the person has smoked in his entire life, for a duration of 5 minutes.\nThe second offense is losing a finger.\nThe third offense is the death of a loved one.\nThe last offense is taking the soul of the person from his body, although this offense is described very loosely.\n\nK initially refuses to sign the contract and pay the fee of 21,11,111 for his treatment but is forced to do so by Baba and his disciples. Baba then tells K that he is free to leave, but he must abide by the rules or he will suffer the consequences. K witnesses other members of the group as they try to quit smoking. Many end up losing fingers as they cannot resisit the urge to smoke.\nK tries to keep to the terms but fails twice and is punished. He is now very conscious about the third time.\n\nAfter some time, K meets an old friend, Alex, who is now a Cuban cigar seller. At an event, K is forced to place a cigar in his mouth, in order to appease his friend. Seconds later, he receives a phone call from the police, who inform him that his wife is missing and possibly dead. He calls Baba and is told that for smoking, his wife will be killed, as per the rules. He protests that he did not actually smoke and Baba apologizes for the mistake, but says it is too late. K asks Baba to tell the police about this, but the line goes dead and the phone number is non-existent on dialling. K's protests are ignored and the police believe that he is delusional. Trying to prove his story, he seeks out Abbas, who had lost a finger at the rehabilitation centre, only to find that the man has all fingers intact. Mocking him, the police force K to smoke. Shortly afterwards, K gets a phone call that his brother committed suicide due to his smoking habit. K raves angrily at the police and is thrown in the jail.\n\nK is eventually bailed out. Soon, he learns that Baba permits sins and vices to be done during a period known as 'Zero Minute'. He attends an event, where he sees Baba, but is unable to reach him. K decides to light a cigarette. Suddenly, K wakes up in a Russian army base, with a call from his wife. She asks him why he believes she is dead. K is confused, but escapes from the base by jumping into water and ends up in a ragged room, from which he sees himself staring out from a hospital room. He also sees his wife and Baba. He calls out but no one can hear him, and he is told that it is because his body no longer hears his inner soul. The final punishment is complete.\n\nIn a series of haphazard events, the twisted path of K's soul is shown, until it finally reaches his body once again. K wakes up in his home to find his wife sleeping near him. He also discovers that he is missing two fingers. Later, K is seen recommending the \"Prayogshala\" centre to a friend.\n\n\n\nThe idea for the film came during the making of \"Satya\" (1998), when director Ram Gopal Varma pitched a story about a chain smoker's encounter with someone who despises smoking. Varma later incorporated his own idea of the story as a short segment in his anthology film, \"Darna Mana Hai\" (2003). During the shooting of Kashyap's \"Black Friday\", his assistant narrated him a different script about a chain smoker who wakes up without cigarettes and is unable to get any because of a curfew. Kashyap decided to take the story forward, taking inspiration from \"Quitters, inc\" and a surreal moment from \"Cats Eye\", subsequently making him develop the story into a darker and more unreal version.\n\nAfter the scripting was complete in 2006, Kashyap narrated the film to Shahrukh Khan, who was keen to do the film but later would back out for unknown reasons. When the deal fell through Kashyap who was in bad shape at the time, as one of his films were delayed and the other stuck in production, tried to get a hold of all the top actors, though none of them responded except for Abraham. Vishal Bhardwaj, Kashyap's friend and producer of the fiim recommended Saif Ali Khan, as he was part of the smoking segment in \"Darna Mana Hai\", though Kashyap had already finalised Abraham. Later false reports surfaced that Saif be appearing in a cameo, on the request of co-producer Kumar Mangat, who worked together in \"Omkara\" (2006).\n\nDue to the film having a complex storyline, when Kashyap was auditioning Abraham he read him a badly written fake script title \"Lapata\" (Lost), which Abraham declined to. After which he read him the real script of \"No Smoking\", he immediately agreed to do it. Initially Takia was not comfortable with the love making scenes and the clothes of the secretary (Annie), though Kashyap refused to make any changes. There is also a scene where Abraham is seen nude from rear, this stirred up some controversy. Abraham who had previously quit smoking, smoked up to 90 cigarettes a day during the shooting to give the film a more believable look. Later when the film was complete Abraham went for an X-ray and found his lungs were heavily damaged.\n\nOriginally director Rajkumar Santoshi was set to make his acting debut by playing the role of the doctor, and writer Abbas Tyrewala was to play the role later given to Shorey, hence Kashyap named the character after the writer.\n\nMost of the filming was done in unique ways. In one scene where Abraham and Shorey are seen as teenagers smoking Marijuana, most directors would have used child actors but Kashyap decided instead to alter the appearance of the actors and make them improvise and behave as kids themselves.\n\nThe film was shot extensively in parts of the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Siberia, in extremely cold climates with temperatures of minus 25 degrees Celsius (°C), despite this none of the crew members had any problems during the shooting. During the shooting in Uzbekistan, a Russian actor dressed as a soldier had to chase Abraham. After running 200 meters the man collapsed, as the shooting was on high altitudes, there was a lack of oxygen. He had to be rushed to the hospital, as he had stopped breathing.\n\nThe film was heavily panned by Indian critics. \"Sify\" gave it 2 out of 5 stars saying \"You try so hard to understand what \"No Smoking\" tries to say, but the film is like one big puzzle that refuses to get solved. John makes a sincere attempt to leave a mark and succeeds to an extent. Really, one wonders, what prompted John to instantly approve this bizarre story\". Rajeev Masand of \"IBN Live\" giving it 1.5/5 said \"What the director gives us is an extremely arrogant piece of work that reeks of over-confidence and self-proclaimed genius. How else do you explain the intentionally incohesive screenplay, the bizarre dialogue, and the blatant disregard for the viewer's time and patience?\". Nikhat Kazmi of \"Times of India\" also gave it 1.5/5 stars and said \"\"No Smoking\" leaves you completely baffled and desperately looking for logic in its surreal sequences of John in a jaded jail, John in a tunnel, John in a bathtub, John in Siberia-like surroundings\". Indu Mirani from \"DNA India\" rated it 1.5/5 saying \"There is a fine line between intelligence and indulgence and with \"No Smoking\", director Anurag Kashyap crosses it often. It’s not like he has made a rank bad film, but ‘No Smoking’ is so influenced by graphic novels and Neil Gaiman books, that understanding its plot’s many forward and backward movements would be out of the scope of the layman\". Khalid Mohamed of \"Hindustan Times\" rated it 1 star and said \"Too in-depth man, too in-depth, puffing, driving, the sex act, fingers being chopped. Kcuf, kcuf. what’s happening out here? You can’t make out, you don’t care, and you’re fed up of the affectations, the self-indulgence.\" Taran Adarsh from \"Bollywood Hungama\" giving it 1 out of 5 said \"You try so hard to understand what \"No Smoking\" tries to say, but the film is like one big puzzle that refuses to get solved. What ails \"No Smoking\", did you ask. Simple, it's the most complicated cinematic experience of 2007. On the whole, \"No Smoking\" fails miserably. Very disappointing!\". Prithviraj Hegde of \"Rediff.com\" gave the film 0 stars and said \"The movie unfolds like a bad dream and spins into a downward spiral that's unreal, incomprehensible and leaves you dazed. And as you may have gathered, I still have no clue what the movie was about.\" On the contrary, Chandril Bhattacharya of Anandabazar Patrika praised the movie uninhibitedly and described the film as first of its kind in India and historical.\n\nIn 2012 \"No Smoking\" was voted no 2 on the list \"The Ten Worst Films Of John Abraham\" by \"Rediff.com\".\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes website the film has received 50% fresh rating, indicating mixed reviews. Phelim O'Neill of \"The Guardian\" gave it 3 out of 5 saying \"While no screen credit is offered to King, it's clear his tale directly forms this film's basis, making it kind of a first for Indian cinema. It could be the beginning of a trend. While a slack pace, unsettled internal logic and a goofy subplot undo much of director Kashyap's hard work. \"Film 4\" also rated it 3 out of 5 stars and said \"Those whose concept of Bollywood involves elephants, saris and dance numbers might be pleasantly surprised by Anurag Kashyap's film, a slick thriller that combines a screwball sensibility with a nightmarish twist\". Tajpal Rathore from \"BBC Films \"gave it 1 out of 5 and said \"\"No Smoking\" is a surprisingly sincere effort, but shouldn't make your life feel any more fulfilled, even if you are a smoker. The shoddy screenplay is stale, and its situations laughable, and though the actors' give it their all, it just doesn't light up in the end. No smoke, and no fire, in what is ultimately a bit of a drag\".\n\nThe film was screened in private a day before its release, as most of the audience could not decipher the film, they left, which resulted in a negative word of the mouth spreading. The film was further affected from negative critical reception. \"No Smoking\" opened to a poor response at the box office, and was one of the biggest disasters of the year.\n\n53rd Filmfare Awards\n\nThe film was made on huge budget and at the time when it sank at the box office, the director Kashyap fell into depression not expecting the critics to lash at it. He admitted that most of the audience expected to see a film about quitting smoking and that pre release the extensively played item song featuring Basu gave audience the wrong type of image as they expected her to play the lead role opposite Abraham. In 2011 Kashyap stated that \"No Smoking\" was his favourite, of all his films.\n\n\"No Smoking\" has garnered a strong cult following, among Kashyap fans and movie buffs, who rate it as one of the most abstract stories, which can have multiple interpretations. The film has seen more positive response from overseas than in India, though the audience now views it as a modern masterpiece, critical reception has still not improved. It is often compared to the films of Hollywood director David Lynch, who is known for his cult surrealistic films.\n\nNo Smoking has been played at several Film festivals. It was played at the Indian film festival and won multiple awards, after being repeatedly screened. The film was also played at various venues in Beijing, (China) and Rome.\n\n\"No Smoking\" is notable as being the only Bollywood film which can have multiple interpretations. Kashyap explained that the film has nothing to do with quitting smoking but relatively about the state of mind, which refers to the mood or the mental state of the films protagonist, K. He has left it upon the audience themselves to make their own interpretations and speculate what transpires. There are many unofficial blogs on the internet by fans trying to solve the films meaning.\n\nThe official soundtrack was composed by Vishal Bhardwaj who also co-produced the film. Background Score was done by Hitesh Sonik & Clinton Cerejo. The lyrics were penned by Gulzar. The music rights were sold to Eros Entertainment and were released in September 2007. The album is available to download from iTunes.\n\nThe soundtrack album received critical acclaim. Abhishek Singh from \"Planet Bollywood\" said \"Over all, as expected, the music turns out to be daringly different and in complete contrast to anything that you might have ever listened. Almost all the songs carry the message of the film along and for that reason only, one can’t be sure of this album on a stand alone basis but seen along side the concept of the movie, it sure hits the bulls eye\". Joginder Tuteja from \"India Fm\" said \"With music by Vishal Bhardwaj and lyrics by Gulzar saab, one expects an unconventional soundtrack in the offering. Well, unconventional it is and in at least a couple of places, exciting too! This has to be one of the most original tracks ever written. 'Jab Bhi Cigarette' is the opening song of the album and may well be termed as the title song of the album\". Satyajit from \"Glamsham\" said \"\"No Smoking\" dares to be different for chartering unexplored territories and have surprises in raucously driven vivacious tracks like “Phoonk De” and “Jab Bhi Cigarette”. Rekha Bhardwaj’s peculiar nasal twang will be garnering major spotlight in “Phoonk De (club mix) with chartbusting success after her subtle and submissive \"Laaga Chunari Mein Daag\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41341760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41341760", "title": "OpenPHACTS", "text": "OpenPHACTS\n\nOpen PHACTS (Open Pharmacological Concept Triple Store) is a European initiative public–private partnership between academia, publishers, enterprises, pharmaceutical companies and other organisations working to enable better, cheaper and faster drug discovery. It has been funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative, selected as part of three projects to \"design methods for common standards and sharing of data for more efficient drug development and patient treatment in the future\".\n\nA total of 27 partners are currently involved including:\n\nThe Open Pharmacological Space created by the consortium is intended to support open innovation and in-house non-public drug discovery research by removing bottlenecks in drug development. Resources from the project are publicly available on GitHub.\n\nTo reduce the barriers to drug discovery in industry, academia and for small businesses, the Open PHACTS consortium built the Open PHACTS Discovery Platform. This platform is freely available, integrating pharmacological data from a variety of information resources and providing tools and services to question this integrated data to support pharmacological research.\n"}
{"id": "49312388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49312388", "title": "Open Bionics", "text": "Open Bionics\n\nOpen Bionics, founded in 2014, is a UK based company developing low-cost bionic hands. It is based inside Future Space, co-located with Bristol Robotics Laboratory.\nIn 2015 Disney and the company announced a partnership to create superhero-themed prosthetics for young amputees. \n\nIn 2015 the company won a James Dyson Award for innovative engineering 2015 and a Tech4Good award. In 2016 it won a Bloomberg Business Innovators award.\n"}
{"id": "21835582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21835582", "title": "Osteoblast milk protein", "text": "Osteoblast milk protein\n\nOsteoblast milk protein (OMP, ) is the name used by Mengniu, a Chinese dairy company, for a milk protein used as a food additive in their Milk Deluxe () since 2005. It is supposed to help the absorption of calcium and promote bone growth in the osteoblasts and prevent osteoporosis.\n\nIn February 2009, the safety of OMP was questioned by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ), national quality supervision department in China, when they were doing a general clean-up on the use of food additives after the 2008 Chinese milk scandal where melamine was found in some milk products. Mengniu stopped adding OMP to its milk on February 2 after a government order, but did not recall products already on the market. On February 13 the Ministry of Health stated that OMP is \"not harmful to human health\", but the ban on its use stayed in place because the importer had not submitted the necessary paperwork.\n\nThe raw ingredients for OMP were imported from the Tatua Co-operative Dairy Company in New Zealand via Shanghai Tongyuan Food Technology Co. Ltd. (). Mengniu first stated that the major active ingredient in OMP is Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), but later denied adding IGF-1 and said that OMP is the same as Milk Basic Protein (MBP). IGF-1 could possibly cause cancer in extreme doses. The company claimed that the additive is widely used in Europe, the United States and Japan, and had been certified by the New Zealand Food Safety Authority and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However it turned out that the FDA letter referred to a perhaps different additive used by the Japanese Snow Brand Milk Products Company. A director of the Guangdong Dairy Industry Association said that OMP is seldom used in milk products overseas and no conclusion about the impact of OMP on human health has been proven globally. The association may contest any official declaration from the Ministry of Health that OMP is safe.\n\nAccording to Mengniu and the Ministry of Health, OMP is made from milk by degreasing by skimming and membrane filtration and its major components are lactoferrin and lactoperoxidase.\n"}
{"id": "25168747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25168747", "title": "Patient-delivered therapy", "text": "Patient-delivered therapy\n\nPatient-delivered (partner) therapy (PDT or PDPT), also called expedited partner therapy (EPT), is the clinical practice of treating the sex partners of patients diagnosed with chlamydia or gonorrhea by providing prescriptions or medications to the patient to take to his/her partner without the health care provider first examining the partner.\n\nEPT may also include other forms of implementation than PDPT.\n\nPDPT works as an addition to the usual \"patient referral\", the latter being that the index patient has a responsibility for informing sex partners of their exposure to a sexually transmitted infection. PDPT significantly reduces the risk of persistent or recurrent infection compared with patient referral alone; a review found that addition of PDPT gives a relative risk of 0.73, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.57 to 0.93.\n\nPitfalls include that EPT may compromise the quality of care provided to partners, especially when used as a first-line approach for partners who would otherwise seek clinical services. For instance, the medication could cause serious adverse reactions, including allergy, which could have been foreseen by a visit to a health care provider.\n\n"}
{"id": "1868106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868106", "title": "Princess Tsehai", "text": "Princess Tsehai\n\nPrincess Tsehai Haile Selassie (13 October 1919 – 17 August 1942) was the third daughter and fourth child of Emperor Haile Selassie and Empress Menen Asfaw of Ethiopia.\n\nPrincess Tsehai was born in Addis Ababa. She often accompanied the Emperor to public events during his exile in Great Britain (1936–1941), where she trained as a nurse at London's Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick Children. She graduated as a state registered children's nurse on 25 August 1939. After the restoration of her father in 1941, she married Lieutenant-General (later Brigadier-General) \"Lij\" Abiye Abebe, and moved with him to Welega Province when he was appointed governor there.\n\nShe later worked at Dessie Hospital in Ethiopia.\n\nPrincess Tsehai died in Nekemte on 17 August 1942, from complications during childbirth. Her baby did not survive. She was buried in the crypt of the Ba'eta Le Mariam Monastery in Addis Ababa that had been built as the mausoleum church of Emperor Menelik II.\n\nEmperor Haile Selassie founded the Princess Tsehai Memorial Hospital in her memory, which also served as a nursing school. After the 1974 revolution, the hospital was renamed the Armed Forces General Hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6613094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6613094", "title": "Ptosis (breasts)", "text": "Ptosis (breasts)\n\nFemale breast ptosis or sagging is a natural consequence of aging. The rate at which a woman's breasts drop and the degree of ptosis depends on many factors. The key factors influencing breast ptosis over a woman's lifetime are cigarette smoking, her number of pregnancies, gravity, higher body mass index, larger bra cup size, and significant weight gain and loss.\n\nPost-menopausal women or people with collagen deficiencies (such as Ehlers-Danlos) may experience increased ptosis due to a loss of skin elasticity. Many women and medical professionals mistakenly believe that breastfeeding increases sagging. It is also commonly believed that the breast itself offers insufficient support and that wearing a bra prevents sagging which has not been found to be true.\n\nPlastic surgeons categorize the degree of ptosis by evaluating the position of the nipple relative to the infra-mammary fold, the point at which the underside of the breasts attach to the chest wall. In the most advanced stage, the nipples are below the fold and point towards the ground.\n\nAnatomically, a female's breasts do not contain any muscle but are composed of soft, glandular tissue. Breasts are composed of mammary glands, milk ducts, adipose tissue (fat tissue) and Cooper's ligaments.\n\nMammary glands remain relatively constant throughout life. Fat tissue surrounds the mammary glands, and its volume will normally vary throughout life. Although the exact mechanisms that determine breast shape and size are largely unknown, the amount and distribution of fat tissue and, to a lesser extent, mammary tissue, cause variations in breast size, shape and volume. The Cooper's ligaments offer minimal connective tissue to support the breasts.\n\nUniversity of Kentucky plastic surgeon Brian Rinker encountered many women in his practice who attributed their sagging breasts to breastfeeding, which was also the usual belief among medical practitioners. He decided to find out if this was true, and between 1998 and 2006 he and other researchers interviewed 132 women who were seeking breast augmentation or breast lifts. They studied the women's medical history, body mass index (BMI), their number of pregnancies, their breast cup size before pregnancy, and smoking status. The study results were presented at a conference of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.\n\nAccording to Rinker's research, there are several key factors. A history of cigarette smoking \"breaks down a protein in the skin called elastin, which gives youthful skin its elastic appearance and supports the breast.\" The number of pregnancies was strongly correlated with ptosis, with the effects increasing with each pregnancy. As most women age, breasts naturally yield to gravity and tend to sag and fold over the inframammary crease, the lower attachment point to the chest wall. This is more true for larger-breasted women. The fourth reason was significant weight gain or loss (greater than ). Other significant factors were higher body mass index and larger bra cup size.\n\nIn Rinker's study, 55% of respondents reported an adverse change in breast shape after pregnancy. Many women mistakenly attribute the changes and their sagging breasts to breastfeeding, and as a result some are reluctant to nurse their infants. Research shows that breastfeeding is not the factor that many thought it was. Rinker concluded that \"Expectant mothers should be reassured that breastfeeding does not appear to have an adverse effect upon breast appearance.\" Also discounted as causes affecting ptosis are weight gain during pregnancy and lack of participation in regular upper body exercise.\n\nWhen running, breasts may move three dimensionally: vertically, horizontally and laterally, in an overall figure-8 motion. Unrestrained movement of large breasts may contribute to sagging over time. Motion studies have revealed that when a woman runs, more than 50% of the breast's total movement is vertical, 22% is side-to-side, and 27% is in-and-out. A 2007 study found that encapsulation-type sports bras, in which each cup is separately molded, are more effective than compression-type bras, which press the breasts close to the body, at reducing total breast motion during exercise. Encapsulation bras reduce motion in two of the three planes, while compression bras reduce motion in only one plane. Previously, it was commonly believed that a woman with small to medium-size breasts benefited most from a compression-type sports bra, and women with larger breasts need an encapsulation-type sports bra.\n\nA woman's breasts change in size, volume, and position on her chest throughout her life. In young women with large breasts, sagging may occur early in life due to the effects of gravity. It may be primarily caused by the volume and weight of the breasts which are disproportionate to her body size.\n\nDuring pregnancy, the ovaries and the placenta produce estrogen and progesterone. These hormones stimulate the 15 to 20 lobes of the milk-secreting glands in the breasts to develop. Women who experience multiple pregnancies repeatedly stretch the skin envelope during engorgement while lactating. As a woman's breasts change in size during repeated pregnancies, the size of her breasts change as her mammary glands are engorged with milk and as she gains and loses weight with each pregnancy. In addition, when milk production stops (usually as a child is weaned), the voluminous mammary glands diminish in volume, but they still add bulk and firmness to the breast. A 2010 review found that weight gain during pregnancy and breastfeeding were not significant risk factors for ptosis. \n\nIn middle-aged women, breast ptosis is caused by a combination of factors. If a woman has been pregnant, postpartum hormonal changes will cause her depleted milk glands to atrophy. Breast tissue and suspensory ligaments may also be stretched if the woman is overweight or loses and gains weight. When these factors are at play, the breast prolapses, or falls forward. When a woman with sagging breasts stands, the underside or inferior skin of the breast folds over the infra-mammary fold and lies against the chest wall. The nipple-areola complex tends to move lower on the breast relative to the inframammary crease. The nipple of the breast may also tend to point downward.\n\nIn post-menopausal women, breast atrophy is aggravated by the inelasticity of over-stretched, aged skin. This is due in part to the reduction in estrogen, which affects all body tissues, including breast tissue. The loss of estrogen reduces breast size and fullness. Estrogen is also essential to maintaining a fibrous protein called collagen, which makes up much of the breast's connective tissue.\n\nPlastic surgeons describe the degree of breast sagging using a \"ptosis scale\" like the modified \"Regnault ptosis scale\" below:\n\n\nSince breasts are an external organ and do not contain muscle, exercise cannot improve their shape. They are not protected from external forces and are subject to gravity. Many women mistakenly believe that breasts cannot anatomically support themselves and that wearing a brassiere will prevent their breasts from sagging later in life. Researchers, bra manufacturers, and health professionals cannot find any evidence to support the idea that wearing a bra for any amount of time slows breast ptosis. Bra manufacturers are careful to claim that bras only affect the shape of breasts while they are being worn.\nRobert Mansell, a professor of surgery at the University Hospital of Wales, in Cardiff, reported that, \"Bras don't prevent breasts from sagging, with regard to stretching of the breast ligaments and drooping in later life, that occurs very regularly anyway, and that's a function of the weight, often of heavy breasts, and these women are wearing bras and it doesn't prevent it.\" John Dixey, at the time CEO of Playtex, agreed with Mansell. \"We have no medical evidence that wearing a bra could prevent sagging, because the breast itself is not muscle so keeping it toned up is an impossibility.\"\n\nTwo small studies provide some indication that wearing a bra may have an overall negative effect on sagging breasts. In a Japanese study, 11 women were measured wearing a standardised fitted bra for three months. They found that breasts became larger and lower, with the underbust measurement decreasing and the overbust increasing, while the lowest point of the breast moved downwards and outwards. The effect was more pronounced in larger-breasted women. This may be related to the particular bra chosen for the experiment, as there was some improvement after changing to a different model.\n\nSome women with ptosis choose to undergo plastic surgery to make their breasts less ptotic. Plastic surgeons offer several procedures for lifting sagging breasts. Surgery to correct the size, contour, and elevation of sagging breasts is called mastopexy. Women can also choose breast implants, or may undergo both procedures. The breast-lift procedure surgically elevates the parenchymal tissue (breast mass), cuts and re-sizes the skin envelope, and transposes the nipple-areola complex higher upon the breast hemisphere. If sagging is present and the woman opts not to undergo mastopexy, implants are typically placed above the muscle, to fill out the breast skin and tissue. Submuscular placement can result in deformity. In these cases, the implant appears to be high on the chest, while the natural breast tissue hangs down over the implant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2156814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156814", "title": "Radiological information system", "text": "Radiological information system\n\nA radiological information system (RIS) is the core system for the electronic\nmanagement of imaging departments. The major functions of the RIS can include patient scheduling, resource management, examination performance tracking, examination interpretation, results distribution, and procedure billing. RIS complements HIS (hospital information systems) and PACS (picture archiving and communication system), and is critical to efficient workflow to radiology practices.\n\nRadiological information systems commonly support the following features:\n\nIn addition a RIS often supports the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "33228670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33228670", "title": "Stratton Parker syndrome", "text": "Stratton Parker syndrome\n\nStratton parker syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by short stature, wormian bones (extra cranial bones), and dextrocardia (displaced heart). Other symptoms include dermatoglyphics, tooth deformities or missing teeth, abnormal kidney development, shortened limbs, mental retardation, undescended testes or cryptorchidism, and anal atresia. The condition was first described by Stratton and Parker in 1989, and there have been only four reported cases worldwide. Two cases of the syndrome were reported by Gilles-Eric Seralini in 2010 after having been contacted in January 2009.\n\nAlternative names include \"Growth Hormone Deficiency with Wormian Bones, Cardiac Anomaly, and Brachycamptodactyly\" and \"Short stature wormian bones dextrocardia\"\n"}
{"id": "1411876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411876", "title": "UK Biobank", "text": "UK Biobank\n\nUK Biobank is a large long-term biobank study in the United Kingdom (UK) which is investigating the respective contributions of genetic predisposition and environmental exposure (including nutrition, lifestyle, medications etc.) to the development of disease. It began in 2006.\n\nBased in Stockport, Greater Manchester, it is incorporated as a limited company and registered charity in England and Wales, and registered as a charity in Scotland.\n\nThe study is following about 500,000 volunteers in the UK, enrolled at ages from 40 to 69.\nInitial enrollment took place over four years from 2006, and the volunteers will be followed for at least 30 years thereafter.\n\nProspective participants were invited to visit an assessment centre,\nat which they completed an automated questionnaire and were interviewed about lifestyle, medical history and nutritional habits; basic variables such weight, height, blood pressure etc. were measured; and blood and urine samples were taken. These samples were preserved so that it was possible to later extract DNA and measure other biologically important substances. During the whole duration of the study it was intended that all disease events, drug prescriptions and deaths of the participants are recorded in a database, taking advantage of the centralized UK National Health Service.\n\nDuring the initial physical examination, basic feedback was provided to the participant regarding their weight, height, BMI, blood pressure, lung vital capacity, bone density and intra-ocular pressure; however if any other medical problems were detected, neither the participant nor their physician would be notified. Problems detected later, such as genetic risk factors, were not conveyed to either participant or physician (\"to ensure that volunteers are not penalised by insurance companies, for example, which may require customers to disclose the results of any genetic tests.\").\n\nFrom 2012, researchers were able to apply to use the database (though they are not given access\nto the volunteers, who will remain strictly anonymous).\nA typical study using the database might compare a sample of participants who developed a particular disease, such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes or Alzheimer's disease, with a sample of those that did not, in an attempt to measure the\nbenefits, risk contribution and interaction of specific genes, lifestyles, and medications.\n\nIn 2017 researchers were able to access the database including genetic information. By 2017 Biobank participants had approximately 1.3 million hospitalisations, 40,000 cancer incidents with 14,000 of them having died.\n\nAn incremental approach was adopted to developing the study procedures and technology, using systems designed and developed by the Clinical Trial Service Unit. This consisted of a series of pilot studies of increasing complexity and sophistication with interludes for assessment of results and additional scientific input. In-house trials were conducted during 2005, and a fully integrated clinic was run at Altrincham, Greater Manchester throughout Spring 2006 where 3,800 individuals were assessed. On August 22, 2006, it was announced that the main programme would recruit men and women aged between 40 and 69 based from up to 35 regional centres., however recruitment proved more efficient than hoped and only 22 centres had been opened when the recruitment target of 500,000 was reached in 2010.\n\nThe study was initially launched with a visit consisting of the following:\n\n\nOnce the visit-based assessment method was proven, the range of investigations was extended to include:\n\n\nThe UK Biobank project operates within the terms of an Ethics and Governance Framework. The Framework describes a series of standards to which UK Biobank will operate during the creation, maintenance and use of the resource and it elaborates on the commitments that are involved to those participating in the project, researchers and the public more broadly. The independent UK Biobank Ethics and Governance Council provides advice to the project and monitors its conformity with the Framework. The Council also advises more generally on the interests of research participants and the general public in relation to the project.\n\nThe UK Biobank Board is accountable to the members of the company (the Medical Research Council and The Wellcome Trust) and acts as company directors and as charity trustees. It is chaired by Prof Sir Michael Rawlins.\n\nFollowing the initial pilot stage in the 2005-6 period, the main study began in April 2007 and by the end of that year 50,000 people had taken part.\nRecruitment reached 100,000 in April 2008, 200,000 in October 2008, 300,000 in May 2009, 400,000 in November 2009 and passed the 500,000 target in July 2010. Participant enrolment was declared complete in August 2010. The volunteers were largely healthy, wealthy and white European. Rather than recruiting more participants into the biobank, the organisation is helping other institutions establish and run similar initiatives.\n\nThe UK Biobank dataset was opened to applications from researchers in March 2012.\nThe resource is available to scientists from the UK and outside, whether they work in the public or private sector, for industry, academia or a charity, subject to verification that the research is health-related and in the public interest. Researchers are required to publish their results in an open source publication site or in an academic journal and return their findings to the UK Biobank. \nBy April 2017 4,600 researchers had registered to use the resource, over 880 applications had been submitted and 430 research projects were completed or underway. 130 peer-reviewed articles based on the UK Biobank data had been published by January 2017.\n\nSince the completion of recruitment several new types of data have been added:\n\n\nIn 2018 a number of projects were underway to generate additional data:\n\n\nIn 2018 there were several plans, either provisional or underway, for enhancing the resource:\n\n\nThe project has been generally praised for its ambitious scope and unique potential. A scientific review panel concluded, the \"UK Biobank has the potential, in ways that are not currently available elsewhere, to support a wide range of research\". Colin Blakemore, chief executive of the MRC, predicted it \"will provide scientists with extraordinary information\" and \"grow into a unique resource for future generations.\" \n\nThere was some early criticism, however. GeneWatch UK, a pressure group that claims to promote the responsible use of genetic information, asserted that the complexity of the programme could result in the finding of \"false links between genes and disease\", and expressed concern that the genetic information from patients could be patented for commercial purposes. Biobank's chief executive described such a risk as \"extremely low, if it exists at all.\" \n\nThe method of recruiting participants was also initially controversial. Participants were sent letters of invitation based on names, addresses, and dates of birth provided by the NHS to the UK Biobank organisers. Although compliant with UK data protection law, some people objected to the NHS passing on such data to third parties without explicit consent, and also had concerns about the data security in such a large project.\n\nThe UK Biobank is funded by the UK Department of Health, the Medical Research Council, the Scottish Executive, and the Wellcome Trust medical research charity. The cost of the initial participant recruitment and assessment phase was 62 million GBP.\n\nEPIC (European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition) is a similar study that was started in 1992 and involves 520,000 men and women mostly between 35 and 70 years old from ten European countries. Participants are recontacted every three to five years. It is specifically designed to study the respective roles of diet and genes in the development of cancer.\n\nIn 1996 a private company deCODE genetics Inc. planned to obtain biobank samples, health and genealogical data from the whole population of Iceland - then about 270,000 people. The company hoped to use the data to identify genes associated with diseases and use that information to develop new drugs. deCODE genetics obtained data and DNA samples on 140,000 Icelanders but filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2009 and as of January 2015 its systems and databanks had been spun off to another company NextCODE Health, owned by WuXi PharmaTech. In 2015, the Chief Executive of deCODE said that with the DNA and family tree they had data collected in Iceland, they could in theory predict which Icelandic women had a high risk of getting breast cancer. However the data had been collected anonymously.\n\nThe Estonian Genome Project was started in 2000 with the aim of improving public health in the country. Initially it was hoped to obtain biological samples and health data from 70% of the 1.4 million population of Estonia. The project ran into financial difficulties and, as of December 2013, the project had data from 52,000 adult gene donors and the aim had been adjusted downwards to collect genealogical, genome and health data from 5% of the population.\n\nThe China Kadoorie Biobank study collected questionnaire and physical data and blood samples on 510,000 men and women aged between 30 and 79 from 10 regions in China between 2004-2008 with the aim of investigating chronic diseases (e.g. heart attack, stroke, diabetes, and cancer). Participants have been linked to mortality registers and nationwide health systems and a sub-group of 25,000 are retested every few years.\n\nIn 2006, a similar project by the U.S. National Human Genome Research Institute known as \"The American project\" was proposed. In 2015 the US National Institutes of Health launched the \"Precision Medicine Initiative\" which was renamed \"All of Us\" in 2016. This project had enrolled over 10,000 people by January 2018 in a pilot phase and aimed to sign up one million participants by 2022.\n\nThe Lifelines cohort study was started in 2006 and collects data and samples on 167,000 children, adults and elderly from the Northern part of the Netherlands. The aim of Lifelines is to constitute a biobank that provides high-quality data and samples by following all participants over a period of at least 30 years. The collected data offer excellent opportunities for studies worldwide unraveling the etiology of multifactorial diseases focusing on multifactor risk factors. This will help to move forward to more personalised health care and prevention and to answer the question why some people grow old in good health while others contract diseases.\n\nThe Finngen project was launched in 2018 with the aim of collecting biological samples from 500,000 participants in Finland over six years with the aim of improving health through genetic research.\n\nEast London Genes & Health is a genomic research study of 100,000 people of Bangladeshi and Pakistani origin carried out by Queen Mary University of London.\n"}
{"id": "20901989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20901989", "title": "University of Public Health, Yangon", "text": "University of Public Health, Yangon\n\nThe University of Public Health, Yangon ( ) is the premier university of public health in Myanmar. Founded in 2007, the university offers only graduate and post-graduate degree programs: Master of Public Health (MPH), PhD in Public Health, Diploma in Medical Science and Diploma in Medical Education. The university is a member of the South-East Asia Public Health Education Institution Network (SEAPHEIN).\n\nIt is located at the heart of Yangon. The full address is 246, Myo Ma Kyaung street, corner of Bo Gyoke Aung San Road and Lamadaw street, Latha, Yangon. It is just across the road in front of University of Medicine 1 which was the oldest medical school in Myanmar.\n\nThe university was founded in 2007 to strengthen the public health system (including human resources for public health) and infrastructure in Myanmar. It is to help strengthen referral systems by providing technical back-up. Referral facilities for primary, secondary and tertiary care are important to effective community health work. Current dean of the school is Professor Nay Soe Maung who has served as an army doctor up to the rank of a colonel. He is ex-husband of one of the daughters of former Myanmar Junta head.\n\nPhysicians(M.B.B.S), dentists(B.D.S), nurses(B.N.Sc) and health assistants(B.Comm.H) are allowed to enter this school. Medical doctors and community/public health professions who are working in government service can enroll the UOPH via entrance exam. Applicant must be under 50 years old. They also finished the training of Central Institute of Civil Service in Myanmar. It is under authority of Ministry of Health in Myanmar.\n\n\n\n4.Myanma Alinn Daily Newspaper in 2013-06-15\n"}
{"id": "22399444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22399444", "title": "VistA", "text": "VistA\n\nThe Veterans Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VISTA) is the nationwide veterans clinical and business information system of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. VISTA consists of 180 applications for clinical, financial, and administrative functions all integrated within a single database, providing single, authoritative source of data for all veteran-related care and services. The U.S. Congress mandates the VA keep the veterans health record in a single, authoritative, lifelong database, which is VISTA. \n\nVISTA supports the clinical, administrative, and financial operations of over 1200 hospitals and clinics of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The VHA is the largest integrated health delivery network in the United States, providing care for over 8 million veterans by 180,000 medical professionals throughout the continental U.S., Alaska, and Hawaii on a single, integrated national healthcare information network of VISTA systems.\n\nVISTA was developed by physician-developer teams within the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and as such has high physician user satisfaction. VISTA received the Computerworld Smithsonian Award for best use of Information Technology in Medicine in 1995, and continues to receive the highest overall physician satisfaction scores in national Electronic Health Record (EHR) surveys. In 2014 and again in 2016 national surveys of over 15,000 physician end-users of EHRs rated VISTA/CPRS the highest overall, above all other commercial EHR systems. Over 65% of all physicians trained in the U.S. rotate through the VHA and use VISTA/CPRS, making VISTA the most familiar EHR in the U.S. \n\nVISTA is a patient-centric integrated inpatient-outpatient enterprise health information system. VISTA was originally named the Decentralized Hospital Computer Program (DHCP) because it was implemented prior to the existence of the Internet when all computers were decentralized. VISTA is an integrated database and application server, and includes computerized order entry, bar code medication administration, electronic prescribing, and clinical guidelines.\n\nOriginally, VISTA had a terminal interface accessible only via a keyboard. In 1997 a Windows-based, mouse-driven graphical user interface called the Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) was added. CPRS provides a client–server interface that allows health care providers to review and update a patient's electronic medical record. CPRS provides flexibility in a wide variety of settings so that a consistent Windows interface is presented to a broad spectrum of health care workers.\n\nFor its development of VistA, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) / Veterans Health Administration (VHA) was named the recipient of the prestigious Innovations in American Government Award presented by the Ash Institute of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in July, 2006. The VistA electronic medical records system is estimated to improve efficiency by 6% per year, and the monthly cost of the EHR is offset by eliminating the cost of even a few unnecessary tests or admissions.\n\nThe adoption of VistA has allowed the VA to achieve a pharmacy prescription accuracy rate of 99.997%, and the VA outperforms most public sector hospitals on a variety of criteria, enabled by the implementation of VistA.\n\nVA hospitals using VistA are one of only thirteen hospital systems that have achieved the qualifications for HIMSS stage 7, the highest level of electronic health record integration, while a non-VA hospital using VistA is one of only 42 US hospitals that has achieved HIMSS stage 6.\n\nThe VistA system is public domain software, available through the Freedom Of Information Act directly from the VA website or through a growing network of distributors, such as the OSEHRA VistA-M.git tree.\n\nVistA was developed using the M or MUMPS language/database. The VA currently runs a majority of VistA systems on the proprietary InterSystems Caché version of MUMPS, but an open source MUMPS database engine, called GT.M, for Linux and Unix computers has also been developed. Although initially separate releases, publicly available VistA distributions are now often bundled with the GT.M database in an integrated package. This has considerably eased installation. The free, open source nature of GT.M allows redundant and cost-effective failsafe database implementations, increasing reliability for complex installations of VistA.\n\nAn open source project called EsiObjects has also allowed the (ANSI- Standard) MUMPS language and database technology to evolve into a modern object-oriented language (and persistent-object store) that can be integrated into mainstream, state-of-the-art technologies. For the Caché MUMPS database, a similar object-oriented extension to MUMPS called Caché ObjectScript has been developed. Both of these have allowed development of the MUMPS database environment (by programmers) using modern object-oriented tools.\n\nM2Web is an open source web gateway to MUMPS for use with VistA.\n\nA free open source module from M/Gateway called MGWSI has been developed to act as a gateway between GT.M, Cache, or M21 MUMPS databases and programming tools such as PHP, ASP.NET, or Java, in order to create a web-based interface.\n\nMyHealtheVet is a web portal that allows veterans to access and update their personal health record, refill prescriptions, and schedule appointments. This also allows veterans to port their health records to institutions outside the VA health system or keep a personal copy of their health records, a Personal Health Record (PHR).\n\nThe Veterans Administration has also developed VistA Imaging, a coordinated system for communicating with PACS (radiology imaging) systems and for integrating others types of image-based information, such as EKGs, pathology slides, and scanned documents, into the VistA electronic medical records system. This type of integration of information into a medical record is critical to efficient utilization.\n\nIt can be used independently or integrated into the VistA electronic health record system (as is done in VA health facilities).\n\nThe VistA electronic healthcare record has been widely credited for reforming the VA healthcare system, improving safety and efficiency substantially. The results have spurred a national impetus to adopt electronic medical records similar to VistA nationwide.\n\nVistA Web collectively describes a set of protocols that in 2007 was being developed and used by the VHA to transfer data (from VistA) between hospitals and clinics within the pilot project. This is the first effort to view a single patient record so that VistA becomes truly interoperable among the more than 128 sites running VistA today.\n\nA Clinical Data Repository/Health Data Repository (CHDR) allows interoperability between the DoD's Clinical Data Repository (CDR) & the VA's Health Data Repository (HDR). Bidirectional real time exchange of computable pharmacy, allergy, demographic and laboratory data occurred in phase 1. Phase 2 involved additional drug–drug interaction and allergy checking. Initial deployment of the system was completed in March 2007 at the El Paso, Augusta, Pensacola, Puget Sound, Chicago, San Diego, and Las Vegas facilities.\n\nVistA has been interfaced with commercial off-the-shelf products. Standards and protocols used by VA are consistent with current industry standards and include HL7, DICOM, and other protocols.\n\nTools for CCR/CCD support have been developed for VistA, allowing VistA to communicate with other EHRs using these standardized information exchange protocols. This includes the Mirth open source cross platform HL7 interface and NHIN Connect, the open source health information exchange adaptor.\n\nThe VistA EHR has been used by the VA in combination with Telemedicine to provide surgical care to rural areas in Nebraska and Western Iowa over a area.\n\nUnder the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the VistA system, the CPRS graphical interface, and unlimited ongoing updates (500–600 per year) are provided as public domain software.\n\nThis was done by the US government in an effort to make VistA available as a low cost Electronic Health Record (EHR) for non-governmental hospitals and other healthcare entities.\n\nWith funding from The Pacific Telehealth & Technology Hui, the Hui 7 produced a version of VistA that ran on GT.M in a Linux operating system, and that was suitable for use in private settings. VistA has since been adapted by companies such as Blue Cliff, DSS, Inc., Medsphere, and Sequence Managers Software to a variety of environments, from individual practices to clinics to hospitals, to regional healthcare co-ordination between far-flung islands. In addition, VistA has been adopted within similar provider environments worldwide. Universities, such as UC Davis and Texas Tech implemented these systems. A non-profit organization, WorldVistA, has also been established to extend and collaboratively improve the VistA electronic health record and health information system for use outside of its original setting.\n\nVistA (and other derivative EMR/EHR systems) can be interfaced with healthcare databases not initially used by the VA system, including billing software, lab databases, and image databases (radiology, for example).\n\nVistA implementations have been deployed (or are currently being deployed) in non-VA healthcare facilities in Texas, Arizona, Florida, Hawaii, New Jersey, Oklahoma, West Virginia, California, New York, and Washington, D.C.\n\nIn one state, the cost of a multiple hospital VistA-based EHR network was implemented for one tenth the price of a commercial EHR network in another hospital network in the same state ($9 million versus $90 million for 7–8 hospitals each). (Both VistA and the commercial system used the MUMPS database).\n\nVistA has even been adapted into a Health Information System (VMACS) at the veterinary medical teaching hospital at UC Davis.\n\nVistA software modules have been installed around the world, or are being considered for installation, in healthcare institutions such as the World Health Organization, and in countries such as Mexico, American Samoa, Kurdistan, Iraq, Finland, Jordan, Germany, Kenya, Nigeria, Egypt, Malaysia, India, Brazil, Pakistan, and Denmark.\n\nIn September 2009, Dell Computer bought Perot Systems, the company installing VistA in Jordan (the Hakeem project).\n\nThe name \"VistA\" (Veterans Health Information System and Technology Architecture) was adopted by the VA in 1994, when the Under Secretary for Health of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Dr. Ken Kizer, renamed what had previously been known as the Decentralized Hospital Computer Program (DHCP).\n\nBoth Dr. Robert Kolodner (National Health Information Technology Coordinator) and George Timson (an architect of VistA who has been involved with it since the early years) date VistA's actual architecture genesis, then, to 1977. The program was launched in 1978 with the deployment of the initial modules in about twenty VA Medical Centers. The program was named the Decentralized Hospital Computer Program (DHCP) in 1981.\n\nIn December 1981, Congressman Sonny Montgomery of Mississippi arranged for the Decentralized Hospital Computer Program (DHCP) to be written into law as the medical-information systems development program of the VA. VA Administrator Robert P. Nimmo signed an Executive Order in February 1982 describing how the DHCP was to be organized and managed within the VA's Department of Medicine and Surgery.\n\nIn conjunction with the VA's DHCP development, the (IHS) Indian Health Service deployed a system built on and augmenting DHCP throughout its Federal and Tribal facilities as the Resource and Patient Management System (RPMS). This implementation emphasized the integration of outpatient clinics into the system, and many of its elements were soon re-incorporated into the VA system (through a system of technology sharing). Subsequent VistA systems therefore included elements from both RPMS and DHCP. Health IT sharing between VA and IHS continues to the present day.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) then contracted with Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) for a heavily modified and extended form of the DHCP system for use in DoD healthcare facilities, naming it the Composite Health Care System (CHCS).\n\nMeanwhile, in the early 1980s, major hospitals in Finland were the first institutions outside of the United States to adopt and adapt the VistA system to their language and institutional processes, creating a suite of applications called MUSTI and Multilab. (Since then, institutions in Germany, Egypt, Nigeria, and other nations abroad have adopted and adapted this system for their use, as well.)\n\nThe four major adopters of VistA – VA (VistA), DoD (CHCS), IHS (RPMS), and the Finnish Musti consortium – each took VistA in a different direction, creating related but distinct \"dialects\" of VistA. VA VistA and RPMS exchanged ideas and software repeatedly over the years, and RPMS periodically folded back into its code base new versions of the VA VistA packages. These two dialects are therefore the most closely related. The Musti software drifted further away from these two but retained compatibility with the infrastructure of RPMS and VA VistA (while adding additional GUI and web capabilities to improve function). Meanwhile, the CHCS code base diverged from that of the VA's VistA in the mid-eighties and has never been reintegrated. The VA and the DoD had been instructed for years to improve the sharing of medical information between the two systems, but for political reasons made little progress toward bringing the two dialects back together. More recently, CHCS's development was brought to a complete stop by continued political opposition within the DoD, and it has now been supplanted by a related, but different, system called AHLTA. While AHLTA is the new system for DoD, the core systems beneath AHLTA (for Computerized Physician Order Entry, appointing, referral management, and creation of new patient registrations) remain those of the underlying CHCS system. (While some ongoing development has occurred for CHCS, the majority of funds are consumed by the AHLTA project.) Thus, the VistA code base was split four ways.\n\nMany VistA professionals then informally banded together as the \"Hardhats\" (a name the original VistA programmers used for themselves) to promote that the FOIA (Freedom of Information Act) release of VA VistA (that allows it to be in the public domain) be standardized for universal usage.\n\nWorldVistA was formed from this group and was incorporated in March 2003 as a non-profit corporation. This allowed the WorldVistA board of directors to pursue certain activities (obtaining grants, creating contracts, and making formal alliances) that they otherwise could not pursue as an informal organization. It is, however, an organization independent of the VA system and its version of VistA therefore differs from that of the VA's. Nevertheless, it maintains as an objective that its public version be compatible (interoperable) with the VA's official version. It has developed packages of WorldVistA for multiple operating systems, including Linux (Debian/Ubuntu and Red Hat) -based and Microsoft Windows-based operating systems. Co-operation with the maintainers and vendors of OpenVistA, another widely deployed open source public version of VistA, helps maintain interoperability and a standardized framework.\n\nIn 2011 the Open Source Electronic Health Record Agent (OSEHRA) project was started (in cooperation with the Department of Veterans Affairs) to provide a common code repository for VistA (and other EHR and health IT) software.\n\nIn summary, it was the joint collaboration of thousands of clinicians and systems experts from the United States and other nations, many of them volunteers, that the VistA system has developed.\n\nThere have been many champions of VistA as the electronic healthcare record system for a universal healthcare plan. VistA can act as a standalone system, allowing self-contained management and retention of healthcare data within an institution. Combined with BHIE (or other data exchange protocol) it can be part of a peer-to-peer model of universal healthcare. It is also scalable to be used as a centralized system (allowing regional or even national centralization of healthcare records). It is, therefore, the electronic records system most adaptable to a variety of healthcare models.\n\nIn addition to the unwavering support of congressional representatives such as Congressman Sonny Montgomery of Mississippi, numerous IT specialists, physicians, and other healthcare professionals have donated significant amounts of time in adapting the VistA system for use in non-governmental healthcare settings.\n\nThe ranking member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee's Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee, Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite of Florida, recommended that the Department of Defense (DOD) adopt VA's VistA system following accusations of inefficiencies in the DOD healthcare system. The DOD hospitals use Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) which has not been as successful as VistA and has not been adapted to non-military environments (as has been done with VistA).\n\nIn November 2005, the U.S. Senate passed the Wired for Health Care Quality Act, introduced by Sen. Enzi of Wyoming with 38 co-sponsors, that would require the government to use the VA's technology standards as a basis for national standards allowing all health care providers to communicate with each other as part of a nationwide health information exchange. The legislation would also authorize $280 million in grants, which would help persuade reluctant providers to invest in the new technology. There has been no action on the bill since December 2005. Two similar House bills were introduced in late 2005 and early 2006; no action has been taken on either of them, either.\n\nIn late 2008, House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chair Congressman Pete Stark (D-CA) introduced the Health-e Information Technology Act of 2008 (H.R. 6898) that calls for the creation of a low-cost public IT system for those providers who do not want to invest in a proprietary one.\n\nIn April 2009, Sen. John D. Rockefeller of West Virginia introduced the Health Information Technology Public Utility Act of 2009 calling for the government to create an open source electronic health records solution and offer it at little or no cost to safety-net hospitals and small rural providers.\n\n\nAn effort has been made by the Astronaut team, WorldVistA team, members of the VistA Software Alliance, and the OSEHRA to standardize structure between the platform derivatives to allow for future interoperability, as part of the vision for a national healthcare network record system.\n\n\n\nVideos about VistA:\n"}
{"id": "32317494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32317494", "title": "Wishing Well: Water for the World", "text": "Wishing Well: Water for the World\n\nWishing Well: Water for the World is 501(c)(3) public charity, based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Wishing Well: Water for the World was founded by college students at Pepperdine University in spring of 2006, the headquarters then moved to Oklahoma Christian University in the fall of 2006. Wishing Well: Water for the World empowers communities to transform their world by providing water to those in need.\n\nPepperdine University\n\nStudents at Pepperdine raised the money for three water wells funded through Blood Water Mission. Their efforts were noticed by Laura Bush 2007, she said, \"…Clean water, it's so simple. It's something all of us can do, even college students. We can go to a village and build a water well, and we know things are going to be better than they were. So far, students (at Pepperdine University) have raised about $14,000 for Wishing Well. Your efforts have already helped put a clean-water pump in a rural town near Nairobi, and this summer, two more will be installed — another in Kenya, and one in The Gambia, near a World Bible School. Because of your generosity, hundreds of children will have access to clean water — and the hope of good health.\" \n\nOklahoma Christian University\n\nIn fall of 2006, the headquarters of Wishing Well moved to Oklahoma Christian University in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Students at Oklahoma Christian University started fundraising by putting on a night of prayer and hosting a student art gallery on campus. Oklahoma Christian students Ryan Groves, Travis Hughes, Taylor Walling, Joshua Burgin, Whitney Parker, and Chase Layman used a portion of the funds raised to fly to Rwanda to film a documentary about the water crisis. Wishing Well grew, and they started chapters at schools and churches around the United States.\n\nTown Hall Theater\n\nWishing Wells documentary, One Drop, premiered at the town hall theater on Time Square in NewYork City. The NON, Rock Wagon Live Painters, David Bowden Poetry and Ester Havens Photography were featured at the event.\n\nCreativity World Forum\n\nWishing Well partnered with Toms shoes in November 2010, where 250 High School and College students walked barefoot for 2 miles through downtown Oklahoma City, carrying water jugs. They walked on stage where they were joined by Hanson, Sandi Patty and Eric Logan.\n\nTedXOKC\n\nRyan Groves spoke about responding to crisis with creativity. He outlined using human empowerment to end the water crisis.\n\nWIshing well has funded several wells through Blood Water Mission, Living Water International and Charity: Water. Wishing Well has shared some of their photos from their Africa trip with Charity: Water and held events with them. Wishing Well partnered with Blake Mycoskie in a barefoot water walk in downtown Oklahoma City. Wishing Well has partnered with Water 4 to dig several well in Rwanda.\n\nCurrently, Wishing Well is building hand dug wells that only use materials that are sourceable in country. When they go to dig a well, they teach residents how to build a well so they can start a well digging companies.\n"}
