{"id": "20865404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20865404", "title": "1952 Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race", "text": "1952 Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race\n\nThe 1952 Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race, was the eighth annual running of the \"blue water classic\" Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race.\n\nHosted by the Cruising Yacht Club of Australia based in Sydney, New South Wales, the 1950 edition began on Sydney Harbour, at noon on Boxing Day (26 December 1952), before heading south for 630 nautical miles (1,170 km) through the Tasman Sea, past Bass Strait, into Storm Bay and up the River Derwent, to cross the finish line in Hobart, Tasmania.\n\nThe 1952 Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race comprised a fleet of 17 competitors. The fleet found the going very difficult, and line-honours winner \"Nocturne\", skippered by JR Bull won in the second slowest-ever time of 6 days, 2 hours and 34 minutes. \"Ingrid\", skippered by JS Taylor was awarded handicap honours on adjusted time using the International Measurement System (IMS).\n\n17 yachts registered to begin the 1952 Sydney to Hobart Yacht race. They are:\n"}
{"id": "24214659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24214659", "title": "1970 Norwegian Football Cup", "text": "1970 Norwegian Football Cup\n\nStrømsgodset's winning squad: Inge Thun, Arild Mathisen, Jan Kristiansen, Tor Alsaker-Nøstdahl, Erik Eriksen, Odd Arild Amundsen, Egil H. Olsen, Bjørn Odmar Andersen, Steinar Pettersen, Thorodd Presberg, Ingar Pettersen; \nOle Johnny Friise, Håvard Beckstrøm, Johnny Vidar Pedersen, Sverre Rørvik and Per Rune Wølner.\n\nLyn's team: Svein Bjørn Olsen, Jan Rodvang, Helge Østvold, Tore Børrehaug,\nKnut Kolle, Arild Gulden, Andreas Morisbak, Ola Dybwad-Olsen, Sven Otto Birkeland, Trygve Christophersen and Jon Palmer Austnes.\n\n"}
{"id": "44342249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44342249", "title": "1975 European Karate Championships", "text": "1975 European Karate Championships\n\nThe 1975 European Karate Championships, the 10th edition, was held in Ostend, Belgium from May 5 to 7, 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "22234525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22234525", "title": "1985 AFC Youth Championship", "text": "1985 AFC Youth Championship\n\nThe Asian Football Confederation's 1985 AFC Youth Championship was held in March, 1985 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The tournament was won by for the first time by China PR in the final tournaments in round-robin format.\n\n"}
{"id": "32584304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32584304", "title": "2011 Silverstone Superbike World Championship round", "text": "2011 Silverstone Superbike World Championship round\n\nThe 2011 Silverstone Superbike World Championship round was the ninth round of the 2011 Superbike World Championship. It took place on the weekend of July 29–31, 2011 at Silverstone Circuit, United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "42010104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42010104", "title": "2013–14 Guam Men's Soccer League", "text": "2013–14 Guam Men's Soccer League\n\n2013–14 Guam Men's Soccer League, officially named Budweiser Guam Men's Soccer League due to sponsorship reason, is the association football league of Guam.\n\n"}
{"id": "53046230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53046230", "title": "2017 Puerto Rico Soccer League season", "text": "2017 Puerto Rico Soccer League season\n\nThe 2017 Puerto Rico Soccer League season would be the 9th season as Puerto Rico's top-division football league.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of teams participating in this years 3rd annual Cup of Excellence.\n"}
{"id": "56148644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56148644", "title": "2018 PBA Tour season", "text": "2018 PBA Tour season\n\nThe 2018 PBA Tour season, the 59th season of play of the U.S. Professional Bowlers Association's (PBA) ten-pin bowling tour, began on January 26, 2018. The season includes 21 singles title events, two doubles title events, and a non-title team event (PBA League). The 2018 season is being used to mark the PBA's 60th year of operations, which included a 148-player PBA 60th Anniversary Classic in Indianapolis, and the unveiling of the Tour's top 60 moments.\n\nThe PBA Tournament of Champions and the PBA Players Championship majors were held in February. The season's third major, the USBC Masters, took place in April, while the U.S. Open will be contested in late October. The PBA Tour Finals, first contested in 2017, returned for 2018, featuring the top eight money leaders from the start of 2016 through the 2018 Maine Shootout (April 18). It was held in Allen Park, MI on May 4-6.\n\nOn March 21, 2018, Fox Sports announced that it had acquired the television rights for the PBA Tour, replacing ESPN, with 26 broadcasts on Fox Sports 1 and four on Fox beginning in 2019. Fox will broadcast an additional PBA Clash event on December 23, 2018, to serve as Fox's first event and as a prelude for the 2019 season, Due to the new agreement, the World Series of Bowling and PBA World Championship were postponed from the 2018 season and moved to March 2019, in order to have them be part of the new television arrangement. They were replaced on the schedule with a reinstated PBA Fall Swing, held in the Tulsa suburb of Owasso, Oklahoma. This event consisted of two standalone title events (Wolf Open and Bear Open), with these events serving as initial qualifying for the PBA Tulsa Open.\n\nThe PBA announced its 2018 season awards on November 20.\n\n\nMajor tournaments are in bold. Career PBA title numbers for winners are shown in parenthesis (#). \n\nIn late 2017, the PBA released a list of 16 oil patterns that would debut with the 2017 PBA World Series of Bowling and continue into 2018. The patterns now include both a name and number, with the number representing the oil length (in feet). There are nine \"Animal\" oil patterns: Cheetah 33, Wolf 33, Viper 36, Chameleon 39, Bear 39, Scorpion 42, Shark 45, Dragon 45, and Badger 52. (The Badger 52 pattern will not be used in 2018.) There are also seven \"Legends\" patterns: Johnny Petraglia 36, Don Carter 39, Don Johnson 40, Earl Anthony 42, Mark Roth 42, Carmen Salvino 44, and Dick Weber 45. \n\n"}
{"id": "3268252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268252", "title": "Aerobics Oz Style", "text": "Aerobics Oz Style\n\nAerobics Oz Style is an Australian aerobic exercise instruction television series, shown in Australia on weekends and then weekdays on Network Ten at then and distributed to many other countries. It was cancelled by Channel Ten at the end of 2005. \"AOS\" continues to be broadcast on Australian television via AURORA Channel 183 - on the Foxtel Digital, Optus and Austar platforms - which broadcasts \"Aerobics Oz Style\" every day at 6.30am AEST and also 2.00pm AEST. In Europe Aerobics Oz Style is broadcast daily (weekends included) on Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2 at 6:00 (GMT) and it's repeated daily on Sky Sports 3 or Sky Sports 4 at 11:30 and 16:30. In 2011 Sky Sports started to broadcast additional airings of the show. The program is now aired in the small hours of the morning, as early as, 00:30 (GMT).\n\nThe series began in 1982 and had run continuously through until 2005, with over 4,500 episodes produced, by production company Zero1Zero (now Silk Studios). The format remained consistent throughout its run. Each show was 30 minutes divided into four segments, one of warmup exercises, two main exercise segments, and a stretch/cool-down segment. One instructor leads the exercises, with four demonstrators following to the side and behind. Later shows were shot outdoors at scenic locations around Sydney, in earlier shows an indoor studio was used.\n\nEach show had an exercise theme. The mainstays since inception included high and low-impact, legs, abdominals, body toning. Other later themes included kick-boxing, low impact with a mixture of Latin dancing and pilates. Older styles included light hand weights and dynabands. Fashions in exercise-wear moved with the times too, leotards over bicycle shorts in the early days giving way to halter tops and tight shorts.\n\nA set of \"Aerobics Oz Style\" exercise videos are sold in a longer format than the shows broadcast, and include some exercise styles not otherwise featured, such as Swiss ball. These videos included music that remained unique and separate from the television show.\n\nThe instructors and demonstrators on the show were a mixture of men and women. The show was intended for any age or gender.\n\nMany children watched the series inadvertently as they had switched on their televisions too early for the popular children's series Cheez TV which came after.\n\nAustralian band TISM parodied \"Aerobics Oz Style\" in their 1998 music video for \"Whatareya?\", in which all members start off following the instructor before drinking (and throwing) beer cans and jumping over couches.\n\nIn 1998 U NO HU, a UK songwriting duo, consisting of Gary Williams and Philip Barber were brought onboard and commissioned to write a mixture of more than three hundred instrumental dance tracks and chill-out tracks specifically for the television broadcasts and later exercise videos. The new, uplifting, music featured on over 1,500 later shows increased viewer ratings by twenty percent – on the BSkyB network – adding to the already established popularity of the program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4205424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205424", "title": "Anjalay Stadium", "text": "Anjalay Stadium\n\nThe Anjalay Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Belle Vue Maurel, Pamplemousses District, Mauritius. At present, it is used mostly for football matches. The parking area of the stadium is used for car racing and motorcycle racing. The stadium holds 18,000 and was renovated in 2003 for a cost of $15 million.\n"}
{"id": "55504843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504843", "title": "Australia at the 2017 Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games", "text": "Australia at the 2017 Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games\n\nAustralia competed at the 2017 Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games held in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan from September 17 to 27. 17 athletes competed in 3 different sports.\n\nAustralia made its debut in an Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games for the first time at the Games held in Turkmenistan along with other Oceania nations.\n"}
{"id": "18767182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18767182", "title": "Boyle's Thirty Acres", "text": "Boyle's Thirty Acres\n\nBoyle's Thirty Acres was a large wooden bowl arena in Jersey City, New Jersey. It was built specifically for the world heavyweight championship bout between Jack Dempsey of the United States and Georges Carpentier of France on July 2, 1921. It held approximately 80,000 fans and was built at a cost of $250,000. It was situated around Montgomery Street and Cornelison Avenue, on a plot of marshland owned by John F. Boyle.\n\nTex Rickard, the promoter of the bout, initially wanted the fight to take place at the Polo Grounds in New York City. However, Nathan Lewis Miller, the governor of New York, opposed prizefighting and indicated that he did not want a Dempsey-Carpentier bout to be held in New York State. After a number of offers from other promoters, Rickard settled on a proposal from Frank Hague, the mayor of Jersey City. Hague obtained a parcel of land owned by John P. Boyle, a paper box manufacturer. The site was once the home of the Jersey City baseball team. The actual size of Boyle's land was . The octagonal structure was built using of lumber. The arena covered and during construction had the services of 500 carpenters and 400 laborers. C.S. and J.W. Edwards were the contractors. Construction started on April 28, 1921 and was completed a few days before the fight. The arena was initially due to hold 50,000 fans. However, the demand for the international extravaganza was so enormous that Rickard had to expand the arena to hold a capacity of around 80,000 to 90,000 fans. It had the greatest seating capacity of any amphitheatre ever built. In the contest between Dempsey and Carpentier, the strength and power of Dempsey was too much for the Frenchman, who was knocked out in the fourth round, with a broken thumb.\n\nBoyle's Thirty Acres was used for a number of boxing cards after the Dempsey–Carpentier bout. On Labor Day, 1921, Rickard promoted a card headlined by four champions - Johnny Wilson, Mike McTigue, Joe Gans, and Johnny Buff. On July 27, 1922, the lightweight champion Benny Leonard recorded a newspaper decision win over Lew Tendler. Luis Ángel Firpo earned a title shot at Dempsey by knocking out ex-champion Jess Willard in the eighth round before a paid attendance of 75,712 on July 12, 1923. Firpo had less luck in 1924 when he was defeated by Harry Wills before 70,000 fans. Other notable fighters to have fought in Boyle's Thirty Acres were Tiger Flowers, Paul Berlenbach, and James J Braddock\n\nBy 1927, most major title bouts in the New York area were being held either at Yankee Stadium or the Polo Grounds. Rickard announced that the wooden arena would be demolished and in June 1927 the wrecking ball brought the short history of Boyle's Thirty Acres to an end.\n\nBy 1952, the site of Boyle's Thirty Acres had become a Jersey City housing project named Montgomery Gardens. After over 50 years of use, the project began to be emptied and the Jersey City Housing Authority planned to demolish the buildings in order to build mixed-use housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "8258946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8258946", "title": "Burkina Faso at the Olympics", "text": "Burkina Faso at the Olympics\n\nBurkina Faso has sent athletes to every Summer Olympic Games held since 1988. Under its previous name of Upper Volta (VOL), the country also competed in 1972. Despite appearing in eight different Olympics, Burkina Faso has never won an Olympic medal. No athletes from Burkina Faso have competed in any Winter Olympic Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43005168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43005168", "title": "Cameroon women's national volleyball team", "text": "Cameroon women's national volleyball team\n\nThe Cameroon women's national volleyball team represents Cameroon in international women's volleyball competitions and friendly matches. The team is one of the leading nations in women's volleyball on the African continent.\n\nThe team played in the 2014 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship in Italy, after securing a ticket by winning the African Pool T qualifiers with the best win-loss ratio.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following is the Cameroonian roster in the 2018 World Championship.\n\nHead coach: Jean-René Akono\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9582056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9582056", "title": "Cyprus Cycling Federation", "text": "Cyprus Cycling Federation\n\nThe Cyprus Cycling Federation (CCF) (Greek: Κυπριακή Ομοσπονδία Ποδηλασίας, Κ.Ο.ΠΟ) is the national governing body of cycle racing in Cyprus.\n\nThe CCF is a member of the UCI and the UEC.\n\n"}
{"id": "15726366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726366", "title": "Czech Supercup", "text": "Czech Supercup\n\nThe Czech Supercup () was an annual football match between the winners of the Czech First League and the Czech Cup, organised by the Czech Football Association. It was last sponsored by Synot Tip and was therefore officially known as the Synot Tip Supercup. The Czech Supercup was discontinued in 2015 and replaced by the Czechoslovak Supercup from 2017 onward.\n\nThe match was held at the home stadium of the league champion.\n\nThe first Supercup was held on 8 July 2010. The last Supercup was held on 18 June 2015.\n"}
{"id": "32840242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32840242", "title": "Djibouti at the 2011 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Djibouti at the 2011 World Championships in Athletics\n\nDjibouti competed at the 2011 World Championships in Athletics from August 27 to September 4 in Daegu, South Korea.\nA team of 2 athletes was\nannounced to represent the country\nin the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "102796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102796", "title": "Dodger Stadium", "text": "Dodger Stadium\n\nDodger Stadium, occasionally called by the metonym Chavez Ravine, is a baseball park located in the Elysian Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, the home field to the Los Angeles Dodgers, the city's National League franchise of Major League Baseball (MLB). Opened on April 10, 1962, it was constructed in less than three years at a cost of US$23 million, financed by private sources.\nDodger Stadium is currently the oldest ballpark in MLB west of the Mississippi River, and third-oldest overall, after Fenway Park in Boston (1912) and Wrigley Field in Chicago (1914) and is the world's largest baseball stadium by seat capacity. Often referred to as a \"pitcher's ballpark\", the stadium has seen twelve no-hitters, two of which were perfect games.\n\nThe stadium hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game in 1980 - and will host in 2020 - as well as games of 10 World Series (1963, 1965, 1966, 1974, 1977, 1978, 1981, 1988, 2017, and 2018). It also hosted the semifinals and finals of the 2009 and 2017 World Baseball Classics. It also hosted exhibition baseball during the 1984 Summer Olympics. It will also host baseball and softball during the 2028 Summer Olympics.\nThe stadium hosted a soccer tournament on August 3, 2013 featuring four clubs, the hometown team Los Angeles Galaxy, and Europe's Real Madrid, Everton, and Juventus.\n\nFor the first time at Dodger Stadium, the Los Angeles Kings and Anaheim Ducks played a regular season game on January 25, 2014 as part of the NHL Stadium Series.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Brooklyn Dodgers team president Walter O'Malley had tried to build a domed stadium in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, but was unable to reach an agreement with city officials for the land acquisition, and eventually reached a deal with the city of Los Angeles. The land for Dodger Stadium was seized from local owners and inhabitants in the early 1950s by the city of Los Angeles using eminent domain with funds from the Federal Housing Act of 1949. The city had planned to develop the Elysian Park Heights public housing project, which included two dozen 13-story buildings and more than 160 two-story townhouses, in addition to newly rebuilt playgrounds and schools, and a college.\n\nBefore construction could begin on the housing project, the local political climate changed greatly when Norris Poulson was elected mayor of Los Angeles in 1953. Proposed public housing projects such as Elysian Park Heights lost most of their support as they became associated with socialist ideals. Following protracted negotiations, the city purchased the Chavez Ravine property back from the Federal Housing Authority at a drastically reduced price, with the stipulation that the land be used for a public purpose. It was not until June 3, 1958, when Los Angeles voters approved a \"Taxpayers Committee for Yes on Baseball\" referendum, that the Dodgers were able to acquire of Chavez Ravine from the city. While Dodger Stadium was under construction, the Dodgers played in the league's largest capacity venue from 1958 through 1961 at their temporary home, the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, which could seat in excess of 90,000 people.\n\nLos Angeles-based Mike Davis, in his seminal work on the city, \"City of Quartz\", describes the process of gradually convincing Chavez Ravine homeowners to sell. With nearly all of the original Spanish-speaking homeowners initially unwilling to sell, developers resorted to offering immediate cash payments, distributed through their Spanish-speaking agents. Once the first sales had been completed, remaining homeowners were offered increasingly lesser amounts of money, to create a community panic of not receiving fair compensation, or of being left as one of the few holdouts. Many residents continued to hold out despite the pressure being placed upon them by developers, resulting in the Battle of Chavez Ravine, a ten-year struggle by the residents to maintain control of their property, which they ultimately lost. \n\nDodger Stadium was the first Major League Baseball stadium since the initial construction of the original Yankee Stadium to be built using 100% private financing, and the last until AT&T Park in San Francisco opened in 2000. Ground was broken for Dodger Stadium on September 17, 1959. The top of local ridges were removed and the soil was used to fill in Sulfur and Cemetery Ravines to provide a level surface for a parking lot and the stadium. A local elementary school (Palo Verde) was simply buried and sits beneath the parking lot northwest of third base. A total of 8 million cubic yards of earth were moved in the process of building the stadium. 21,000 precast concrete units, some weighing as much as 32 tons, were fabricated onsite and lowered into place with a specially built crane to form the stadium's structural framework. The stadium was originally designed to be expandable to 85,000 seats by expanding the upper decks over the outfield pavilions; the Dodgers have never pursued such a project.\n\nDodger Stadium was also the home of the Los Angeles Angels from 1962 through 1965. To avoid constantly referring to their landlords, the Angels called the park Chavez Ravine Stadium (or just \"Chavez Ravine\"), after the geographic feature in which the stadium sits.\n\nAt the conclusion of the 2005 season, the Los Angeles Dodgers made major renovations during the subsequent off-season.\n\nThe largest of these improvements was the replacement of nearly all the seats in the stadium. The seats that were removed had been in use since 1975 and helped give the stadium its unique \"space age\" feel with a color palette of bright yellow, orange, blue, and red. The new seats are in the original (more muted) 1962 color scheme consisting of yellow, light orange, turquoise, and sky blue. 2,000 pairs of seats were made available for purchase at $250, with the proceeds going to charity.\n\nThe baseline seating sections have been converted into retro-style \"box\" seating, adding leg room and a table. Other repairs were made to the concrete structure of the stadium. These improvements mark the second phase of a multi-year improvement plan for Dodger Stadium.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2005, Dodger Stadium upgraded with LED video displays. The large main video display measures 27 feet high by 47 feet wide.\n\nIn 2008, the Dodgers announced a $412 million project to build a Dodger museum, shops, and restaurants around Dodger Stadium. In a press release, the team described the various features of the renovation as follows:\n\nIn the 2008–2009 offseason, the upper levels of the stadium were supposed to be renovated to match the repairs and improvements made to the field level. The improvements were to include the removal of the trough urinals in the men's restrooms, new concession stands and earthquake retrofitting to the concrete structure. It was also to include the replacement of the outfield scoreboards and monitors with new HD monitors. Due to the 2009 World Baseball Classic hosted at Dodger Stadium, these renovations were put on hold. The divorce of Frank and Jamie McCourt, as well as a weak economy, were the reasons for the postponement.\n\nTo pay for an outstanding loan with the Dodgers former owner News Corporation, former owner Frank McCourt used Dodger Stadium as collateral to obtain a $250 million loan.\n\nIn 2008, the Los Angeles City Council voted unanimously to give the Dodger Stadium area bounded by Academy Rd, Lookout Dr. and Stadium Way its own zip code, 90090 (as of July 2009). This also gives the area a new name, Dodgertown. The signs from the former Dodgertown spring training facility in Vero Beach, Florida will likely be integrated into the $500 million project.\n\nFollowing the sale of the Dodgers in 2012, the team brought in the architect, urban planner, and stadium specialist Janet Marie Smith to lead renovations efforts to the 50-year-old stadium. Renovations to Dodger Stadium began in the winter of 2012. Both video boards were replaced with High Definition screens, and new clubhouses and weight rooms were installed. The restrooms, concession stands, sound system and batting cages were also improved and renovated.\n\nDodgers owner Guggenheim Partners internally discussed moving the Dodgers to a new stadium at a Downtown Los Angeles site proposed by the Anschutz Entertainment Group to allow an NFL team to build a stadium at the Dodger Stadium site. Guggenheim Partners also considered allowing an NFL team to build a stadium next to Dodger Stadium. The NFL eventually chose to build a stadium in the City of Inglewood.\n\nThe extensive renovations to Dodger Stadium were ready for the 2013 season and included new HD hexagonal video and scoreboards, a new sound system, wider concourses, more standing room viewing areas, improved restrooms and a children's playground amongst others.\n\nBetween the 2013 and 2014 seasons, more renovations were put in place. Dodger Stadium was the beneficiary of improvements such as wider concourses in the pavilions, new restaurants \"Think Blue Bar-B-Que\" and \"Tommy Lasorda's Trattoria\", dedicated team store buildings replacing the tents that previously served as team stores, bullpen overlooks with overlook bars, and tree relocation at the top of the stadium.\n\nDodger Stadium was one of the last baseball-only facilities built before the dawn of the multi-purpose stadium. It was built near the convergence of several freeways near downtown Los Angeles, with an expansive parking lot surrounding the stadium. With the construction of many new MLB ballparks in recent years, it is now the third-oldest park still in use, and the oldest on the West Coast.\n\nDodger Stadium offered several innovative design features. One of these was a covered and screened section of dugout-level seats behind home plate. Dodger owner Walter O'Malley was inspired to incorporate this feature into the Dodger Stadium design after having seen it at Tokyo's Korakuen Stadium during the Brooklyn Dodgers' postseason goodwill tour of Japan in 1956. The original dugout seating area was replaced by more conventional box seating in a 1999 renovation, but this feature has been replicated at Progressive Field in Cleveland and Angel Stadium of Anaheim.\n\nTwo of Dodger Stadium's most distinctive features are the wavy roof atop each outfield pavilion and the top of a 10-story elevator shaft bearing the Dodger logo rising directly behind home plate at the top of the uppermost seating level.\n\nA unique terraced-earthworks parking lot was built behind the main stands, allowing ticketholders to park at roughly the level of their seats, minimizing use of ramps once inside. The stadium was also designed to be earthquake-resistant, an important consideration in California, and it has withstood several serious earthquakes.\n\nDodger Stadium was originally equipped with two large Fair Play electronic scoreboard units above the left- and right-field pavilions. The right-field board displayed in-game information. The left-field board displayed scores of out-of-town games and other messages. Smaller auxiliary scoreboards were installed at field level on the box seat fences beyond the first- and third-base dugouts during the inaugural 1962 season. The left-field message board was replaced by a Mitsubishi Electric Diamond Vision video board in 1980. The field-level auxiliary scoreboards were replaced by larger units installed on the facade of the Loge (second) seating level in 1998; these, in turn, were replaced by a video ribbon board in 2006. Field-level out-of-town scoreboards were installed on the left- and right-field walls in 2003.\n\nStrobe lights were added in 2001; they flash when the Dodgers take the field, after a Dodger home run, and after a Dodger win. \n\nIn addition to those of Don Drysdale, Sandy Koufax, and Don Sutton, the retired numbers of Pee Wee Reese, Jackie Robinson, Duke Snider, Tommy Lasorda, Walter Alston, Roy Campanella and Jim Gilliam are mounted on the club level facade near the left field foul pole. On April 15, 2017, to mark the 70th anniversary of Robinson's major league debut, the Dodgers unveiled a bronze statue of the player in the stadium's left-field plaza. The 800-pound sculpture depicts Robinson sliding into home plate as a rookie.\n\nThe Dodgers devote significant resources to the park's maintenance. For example, it is repainted every year, and a full-time crew of gardeners maintain the site. As a result, it has stood the test of time very well, and no plans are in the works to replace it. Renovations were made in 1999 and again in 2004 that initially added additional field level seats, particularly behind home plate where previously the only person seen there was legendary scout Mike Brito, in his trademark Panama hat and cuban cigar tracking pitch speeds with a radar gun. After some criticism of the sightlines with these new seats, they were replaced with box seats.\n\nBuilt on top of the historic Los Angeles neighborhood of Chavez Ravine in Solano Canyon, the stadium overlooks downtown Los Angeles and provides views of the city to the south, the green tree-lined hills of Elysian Park to the north and east, and the San Gabriel Mountains beyond the outfield pavilions. Due to dry summers in Southern California, rainouts at Dodger Stadium are rare. Prior to 1976, the Dodgers were rained out only once, against the St. Louis Cardinals, on April 21, 1967, ending a streak of 737 consecutive games without a postponement. On April 12, 1976, the second home rainout ended a streak of 724 straight games. April 19–21, 1988 saw three consecutive rainouts, the only time consecutive games have been rained out at Dodger Stadium. No rainouts occurred between April 21, 1988 and April 11, 1999 – a major league record of 856 straight home games without a rainout. That record has since been broken, with no rainouts since April 17, 2000, 1,471 consecutive games through April 15th, 2018 \n\nIn order to comply with a conditional-use permit limiting Dodger Stadium's seating capacity to 56,000 it was the only current MLB park (through 2005 ) that had never increased its capacity. Whenever higher revenue lower seats were added some in the upper deck or pavilion were removed to keep the number the same. Through the sale of standing room only tickets, the Dodgers' 2009 home opener drew 57,099 fans, the largest crowd in stadium history. Following a number of incidents in the early 1970s in which fans showered Cincinnati Reds left fielder Pete Rose with beer, bottles, cups, and trash, the sale of beer was discontinued in both pavilions. Beer sales were reinstated in the right field pavilion in 2008, when that section was converted into the All You Can Eat Pavilion. Fans seated in that section can eat unlimited hot dogs and peanuts and also have access to free soft drinks. There is a charge for beer.\n\nWith the retirement of the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in 2008, the park reigned as the largest capacity ballpark in the Majors.\n\nAs of 2010, there are a total of 2,098 club seats and 68 luxury suites. Both of these amounts will increase once the renovations are complete, with the necessary offset to comply with its conditional-use permit.\n\nDue to renovations made in the 2012–2013 offseason, the current maximum capacity of Dodger Stadium is less than 56,000, although the team's president, Stan Kasten, refuses to provide an exact number. A 53,393 attendance is considered a sellout. The high water mark since the renovations is 56,800 in Games 3,4 and 5 of the 2008 NLDS. The team's 2013 media guide and website still report the capacity as 56,000. The record attendance for the Dodgers was in the 2007 season, with 3.86 million in total attendance.\n\nFor various reasons, Dodger Stadium has long enjoyed a reputation as a pitchers' park. At first, the relatively deep outfield dimensions were a factor, with the power alleys being about 380 feet. Home plate was moved 10 feet toward center field in 1969, but that move also expanded foul ground by 10 feet, a tradeoff which helped to offset the increased likelihood of home runs caused by the decreased field dimensions. Also, during evening games, as the sun sets, the surrounding air cools quickly due to the ocean climate, becoming more dense. As a result, deep fly balls that might otherwise be home runs during the day instead often remain in play becoming outs. The park has been home to 12 no-hitters, while players have hit for the cycle just twice in Dodger Stadium.\n\nRecently, Dodger Stadium has been more neutral with respect to home runs. The stadium does depress doubles and triples quite a bit, due to its uniform outfield walls and relatively small \"corners\" near the foul poles. However, the extremely short outfield walls near the foul poles also make some balls that would bounce off the wall in other parks go for home runs. With some expansion of the box seat area and the removal of significant foul territory, the ballpark has become more neutral, favoring neither pitchers nor hitters. Baseball-Reference's Park Factor measurement of 102 for the 2006 and 2007 seasons is evidence of this.\n\nAlthough the distance to center field has been marked at 395 feet since 1973, it is still actually to center, as has been the case since 1969. The two 395-foot signs erected in 1973 are to the left and right of dead center. However, curvature of the fence between the posted distance signs is not exactly radial from home plate, thus the distance from home plate directly to center field is most likely 5 feet farther than the posted . As of 2012, distance to center field is indicated , and is located virtually exactly at the center field point.\n\nWith the opening of Citi Field and the demolition of Shea Stadium in 2009, Dodger Stadium became the only stadium with symmetrical outfield dimensions remaining in the National League and only one of four total in Major League Baseball. The other three symmetrical fields are Kansas City's Kauffman Stadium, Toronto's Rogers Centre, and Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum, all in the American League.\n\nPitchers such as Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, Don Sutton, Fernando Valenzuela, and Orel Hershiser became superstars after arriving in Los Angeles. The pitcher's edge is also evident in the fact that 12 no-hitters have been thrown in the stadium, including two perfect games (by the Dodgers' Sandy Koufax in 1965, and by Dennis Martínez of the former Montreal Expos in ). Bo Belinsky threw the first ever no-hitter in Dodger Stadium on May 5, 1962 while pitching for the Los Angeles Angels (that club referred to the park as \"Chavez Ravine\".)\n\nThe park's significant advantage was eroded somewhat since 1969, in general because MLB rules were changed after the \"Year of the Pitcher\" to lower the maximum height of the pitcher's mound, and more specifically because the Dodgers moved the diamond about 10 feet (3 m) towards center field. This also gave the fielders more room to catch foul balls, so there was some tradeoff. Following the 2004 season, the stadium underwent a renovation which significantly reduced the amount of foul territory. Seats were added which were closer to home plate than the pitcher's mound, the dugouts were moved 20 feet closer to the field, and previously open space down the foul lines was filled with new seats.\n\nThe Dodgers won the 1963 World Series over the New York Yankees, sweeping the Yankees by winning game 4 by a score of 2-1. Through the 2018 season, this remains the only time the Dodgers ever clinched a World Series at home.\n\nUntil 1988, Dodger Stadium had never hosted a seventh game of a postseason series. The Dodgers won Game 7 of the 1988 National League Championship Series over the New York Mets, 6-0.\n\nFive home runs have been hit completely out of Dodger Stadium. Outfielder Willie Stargell of the Pittsburgh Pirates hit two of those home runs. Stargell hit a 507-foot home run off the Dodgers' Alan Foster on August 6, 1969 that completely cleared the right field pavilion and struck a bus parked outside the stadium. Stargell then hit a 470-foot home run off Andy Messersmith on May 8, 1973 that landed on the right field pavilion roof and bounced into the parking lot. Dodger catcher Mike Piazza hit a 478-foot home run off Frank Castillo of the Colorado Rockies on September 21, 1997 that landed on the left field pavilion roof and skipped under the left field video board and into the parking lot. On May 22, 1999, St. Louis Cardinals first baseman Mark McGwire cleared the left field pavilion with a 483-foot home run off the Dodgers' Jamie Arnold and most recently, on May 12, 2015, Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins hit a 478-foot home run over the left-field roof off Mike Bolsinger.\n\nDodger Stadium has also staged other sporting events such as boxing, a basketball game featuring the Harlem Globetrotters and a ski-jumping exhibition, as well as the baseball competition of the 1984 Summer Olympic Games and is currently designated to host softball and baseball for the 2028 Olympic Games with Angel Stadium.\n\nIn 1992, baseball games from April 30 to May 3 were postponed due to the 1992 Los Angeles riots. Three consecutive days of double headers were held later in the season.\n\nDodger Stadium hosted a soccer doubleheader on August 3, 2013, part of the 2013 International Champions Cup, featuring Real Madrid of Spain, Everton of England, Juventus of Italy and Los Angeles Galaxy of Major League Soccer in a tournament semifinal. The field dimensions were from the third base side to right field; temporary grass was covered on the pitcher's mound and the infield. The tournament was a semifinal and Real Madrid defeated Everton 2-1 and Los Angeles Galaxy defeated Juventus 3-1.\n\nDodger Stadium hosted its first ever National Hockey League game between the Los Angeles Kings and the Anaheim Ducks on January 25, 2014 as a part of the 2014 NHL Stadium Series. The Ducks won the game 3-0 in front of 54,099 fans. In addition rock band KISS played songs before and during intermission of the event.\n\nOn March 21, 1963, Ultiminio \"Sugar\" Ramos won the WBC and WBA featherweight titles from Davey Moore in ten rounds. Moore died days after this fight. Also on the card, Roberto Cruz KO'd Raymundo \"Battling\" Torres in one round to win the WBA Junior Welterweight title.\n\nOn November 15, 2015, Dodger Stadium hosted the third and final game of the Cricket All-Stars Series 2015, featuring many retired cricket players from around the world and led by great cricket legends Sachin Tendulkar and Shane Warne. Warne's Warriors defeated Sachin's Blasters by 4 wickets to win the series 3-0. The ends were named after Sandy Koufax and Don Sutton, two Hall of Fame pitchers for LA Dodgers.\n\n\nMany of the world's top rock, pop and electronic bands have performed at Dodger Stadium, including acts such as The Cure, KISS, The Rolling Stones, The Beatles, Bee Gees, Elton John, Simon and Garfunkel, David Bowie, Madonna, Beyonce, Genesis, Eric Clapton, Depeche Mode (2 Nights), U2 (2 Nights), Dave Matthews Band, Bruce Springsteen and the E Street , Dead & Company, and Michael Jackson in 1984 with The Jacksons (6 concerts, 360,000 people). In July 2017, it hosted the Classic West concert, the first night had featured The Eagles (in their full first concert after the death of January 2016 founding member Glenn Frey) his place has been taken by his son Deacon Frey and American country artist Vince Gill, with supporting acts The Doobie Brothers and Steely Dan. The second night featured Earth, Wind & Fire, Journey, and Fleetwood Mac.\n\nFleetwood Mac's music video for the song \"Tusk\" was recorded and filmed at the empty stadium in 1979.\n\n\nPope John Paul II celebrated Mass at Dodger Stadium on September 16, 1987. Greg Laurie held his Harvest Crusades at Dodger Stadium in 2011 and 2012.\n\nDodger Stadium can be reached by the Los Angeles Metro Transit Authority which operates two Dodger Stadium Express routes that transports fans to and from the Stadium during home games. The service is operated using funding from the Mobile Source Air Pollution Reduction Review Committee and Metro ExpressLanes.\n\nBuses on the Union Station route run non-stop between Union Station and Dodger Stadium. Service to the stadium begins operating 90 minutes before the start of the game, with departures every 10 minutes until the 3rd Inning. Buses stop at Center Field and Top Deck. Return service continues until 45 minutes after the final out or 20 minutes after post-game events, with buses departing as they fill.\n\nBuses on the South Bay route operate between the South Bay and Dodger Stadium along the Harbor Transitway, making stops at Slauson, Manchester, Harbor Freeway, Rosecrans, and Harbor Gateway Transit Center. Service to the stadium begins operating 2 hours before the start of the game, with departures every 20 minutes until the start of the game. Buses stop at Right Field. Return service begins at the end of the 7th inning and continues until 45 minutes after the final out or 20 minutes after post-game events, with buses departing as they fill.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16693090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16693090", "title": "Extra Mile Endurathon", "text": "Extra Mile Endurathon\n\nThe Extra Mile Endurathon (EME) is an endurance marathon created by German philanthropist Alexander Skora, in which participants must walk through a designated racecourse for as long as they can. Whoever walks for the longest amount of time, wins the competition. The EME is organized by Skora's company, Global Games Group, and it usually takes place in capital cities and other important metropolises in different countries around the world, with their racecourses often located in their busiest areas.\n\nThe first competition took place in Berlin, Germany on September 1, 2007. Twenty people participated and walked through popular areas of the city, such as the Olympic Stadium, the Tiergarten, the Brandenburger Tor and Potsdamer Platz. The winner of the competition was Mark Peus, a pilot for Lufthansa, who walked non stop for 36 hours.\n\nThe fourth competition took place on November 30, 2007 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 50 contestants started the race in front of the Estadio Monumental Antonio Vespucio Liberti soccer stadium and walked day and night through downtown Buenos Aires. As the days went by and fewer people kept walking, the event became a media sensation and by its third day the remaining competitors had become instant celebrities. People would ask them for autographs, take pictures with them or show support from balconies and cars. By its fourth day, the EME was featured on the cover of Clarin, Argentina's biggest selling newspaper.\n\nAfter 102 hours of walking, only two contestants were left. Marcelo Muzyka and Ivan Lamas were walking side by side, and were willing to keep going for as long as their legs could move. After careful consideration, the organization decided their sacrifice had been important enough and declared a technical tie. Both were awarded with a first prize and a plane ticket to participate in the next EME edition in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "8378967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8378967", "title": "Field goal", "text": "Field goal\n\nA field goal (FG) is a means of scoring in American football and Canadian football. To score a field goal the team in possession of the ball must place kick, or drop kick, the ball through the goal, i.e., between the uprights and over the crossbar. American football requires that a field goal must only come during a play from scrimmage, while Canadian football retains open field kicks and thus field goals may be scored at any time from anywhere on the field and by any player. The vast majority of field goals, in both codes, are place kicked. Drop kicked field goals were common in the early days of Gridiron football but are almost never done in modern times. In most leagues, a successful field goal awards three points (a notable exception is in six-man football where, due to the difficulty of making a successful field goal because of the small number of players available to stop the opposing team from attempting a block, a field goal is worth four points).\n\nA field goal may also be scored through a fair catch kick, but this is extremely rare. Since a field goal is worth only three points, as opposed to a touchdown, which is worth six points, it is usually only attempted in specific situations (see Strategy).\n\nThe goal structure consists of a horizontal crossbar suspended above the ground, with two vertical goalposts apart extending vertically from each end of the crossbar. In American football, the goals are centered on each end line; in Canadian football, they are centered on each goal line.\n\nAs a field goal is worth only three points, while a touchdown scores at least six (which usually becomes seven with a successful conversion, and potentially 8 with a two-point conversion), teams will generally attempt a field goal only in the following situations:\n\n\nExcept in desperate situations, a team will generally attempt field goals only when keeping a drive alive is unlikely, and its kicker has a significant chance of success, as a missed field goal results in a turnover at the spot of the kick (in the NFL) or at the line of scrimmage (in the NCAA). In American high school rules and Canadian football, where a missed field goal is treated the same as a punt, most teams still opt not to attempt field goals from very long range since field goal formations are not conducive to covering kick returns. Even under ideal conditions, the best professional kickers historically had difficulty making kicks longer than 50 yards consistently (the NFL record is 64 yards and the CFL record, 62 yards). If a team chooses not to attempt a field goal on their last down, they can punt to the other team. A punt cannot score any points in American football unless the receiving team touches the ball first and the kicking team recovers it (though it can result in a single in Canadian football), but it may push the other team back toward its own end.\n\nThe longest field goal kick in NFL history is 64 yards, a record set by Matt Prater on December 8, 2013. The previous record was 63, originally set by Tom Dempsey (1970) and then matched by Jason Elam (1998), Sebastian Janikowski (2011), David Akers (2012), and Graham Gano (2018). High school, college and most professional football leagues offer only a three-point field goal; however, some professional leagues have encouraged more rare kicks through \"four-point field goals\". NFL Europe encouraged long field goals of 50 yards or more by making those worth four points instead of three (much like Australian rules' Super Goal or basketball's three-point line), a rule since adopted by the Stars Football League. Similarly, the sport of arena football sought (unsuccessfully) to repopularize the drop kick by making that worth four points; it failed, since only one kicker (Brian Mitchell) was able to do it with any semblance of proficiency. (In six-man football, where there is no offensive line, all field goals are worth four points instead of the usual three.)\n\nThe overall field goal percentage during the 2010 NFL season was 82.3. In comparison, Jan Stenerud, one of only two pure kickers in the Pro Football Hall of Fame (along with Ray Guy), had a career field goal percentage of 66.8 from 1967 to 1985.\n\nWhen a team decides to attempt a field goal, it will generally line up in a very tight formation, with all but two players lined up along or near the line of scrimmage: the placekicker and the holder. The holder is usually the team's punter or backup quarterback. Instead of the regular center, a team may have a dedicated long snapper trained especially to snap the ball on placekick attempts and punts.\n\nThe holder usually lines up seven to eight yards behind the line of scrimmage, with the kicker a few yards behind him. Upon receiving the snap, the holder holds the ball against the ground vertically, with the stitches away from the kicker. The kicker begins his approach during the snap, so the snapper and holder have little margin for error. A split-second mistake can disrupt the entire attempt.\nThe measurement of a field goal's distance is from the goalpost to the point where the ball was positioned for the kick by the holder. In American football, where the goalpost is located at the back of the end zone (above the end line), the ten yards of the end zone are added to the yard line distance at the spot of the hold.\n\nUntil the 1960s, placekickers approached the ball straight on, with the toe making first contact with the ball. The technique of kicking the ball \"soccer-style\", by approaching the ball at an angle and kicking it with the instep, was introduced by Hungarian-born kicker Pete Gogolak in the 1960s. Reflecting his roots in European soccer, Gogolak observed that kicking the ball at an angle could cover more distance than kicking straight-on; he played college football at Cornell and made his pro debut in 1964 with the Buffalo Bills of the AFL; his younger brother Charlie was also an NFL kicker. The soccer-style kick gained popularity and was nearly universal by the late 1970s; the last straight-on kicker in the NFL was Mark Moseley, who retired in 1986.\n\nIf there is any time left in the half, the method of resuming play after a successful field goal varies between leagues.\n\nA missed field goal is said to be \"no good\" if the kicked ball does not cross between the uprights and over the crossbar of the goal posts. If it misses to the posts' left it may be called \"wide left\" and \"wide right\" if it misses to the posts' right. A field goal attempt may be described as \"short\" if it does not have sufficient distance to go over the cross bar. Some commentators will only describe a field goal attempt as being short if it appears to have been aimed correctly while others will describe an attempt appearing to lack both accuracy and distance as being both wide and short.\n\nIf a field goal attempt is missed and does not go out of bounds, a defensive player may catch the ball and return it, like a punt or kickoff. This type of play usually occurs during an extremely long field goal attempt due to the distance the defense must travel to reach the returner. If there is a significant likelihood of a miss and the strategic game situation warrants it, the defense places a player downfield, in or near their end zone, to catch the ball. The risk in this is that the return man may be tackled deep in his own territory, at a considerably worse position than he could have gotten by letting the ball go dead (see below); furthermore, should the returner fumble the ball, the kicking team can recover it and gain a new set of downs (the advantage is that the kicking team is lined up very close together to stop kick blockers, and not spread across the field like a kickoff or punt team, and is therefore in poor position to defend the return). Thus, teams will usually return a kick only towards the end of a half (when the kick will be the final play) or in a particularly desperate situation.\n\nIf a ball caroms off one of the goal posts or the crossbar, but lands in the field of play, the ball is considered dead and cannot be returned. (This is not the case in arena football, where large \"rebound nets\" surround the goal posts for the explicit purpose of keeping the ball in play.) However, if the ball caroms off one of the goal posts or the crossbar and continues into the goal, the score counts.\n\nSituations where the defense does not return a missed field goal vary between leagues and levels of play:\n\nOccasionally, the defense will succeed in blocking a field goal. If a blocked field goal is in or behind the neutral zone, it is treated like a fumble and can be advanced by either team. Beyond the neutral zone, a blocked kick is treated like a punt and can be advanced only by the defense, unless a defensive player fumbles the ball, after which an offensive player can advance it.\n\nIn the early days of football, kicking was highly emphasized. In 1883, the scoring system was devised, with field goals counting for 5 points, and touchdowns and conversions worth 4 apiece. In 1897, the touchdown was raised to 5 points while the conversion was lowered to 1 point. Field goals were devalued to 4 points in 1904, and then to the modern 3 points in 1909. The touchdown was changed to 6 points in 1912 in American football; the Canadian game followed suit in 1956.\n\nThe spot of the conversion has also changed through the years. In 1924, NCAA rules spotted the conversion at the 3-yard line, before moving it back to the 5-yard line in 1925. In 1929, the spot was moved up to the 2-yard line, which the NFL had done until . In 1968, the NCAA diverged from the NFL rules in moving the spot back to the original 3-yard line. Canadian rules originally spotted the conversion at the 5-yard line, which remains closer than in the American code as the goalposts are at the front of the end zone. In , to make conversion kicks harder, the NFL and CFL moved the spot of the kick to the 15 and 25-yard lines, respectively. In addition, the CFL moved the spot for a two-point conversion up to the 3-yard line to entice more teams to go for 2 points as opposed to one.\n\nThe goalposts were originally located on the goal line; this led to many injuries and sometimes interfered with play. The NCAA moved the goal posts to the rear of the end zone in 1927. The NFL (still following NCAA rules at the time) followed suit, but moved the posts back to the goal line starting in the 1932 NFL Playoff Game, a change made necessary by the size of the indoor Chicago Stadium and kept when the NFL rules stopped mirroring the NCAA rules in . The NFL kept the post at the goal line until 1974, when they were moved back to the rear of the end zone. This was partly a result of the narrowed hashmark distance made in , which had made for easier field-goal angles. The Canadian game still has posts on the goal line.\n\nThe width of the goalposts and the hashmarks have also varied throughout the years. In 1959, the NCAA goalposts were widened to , the standard width for high school posts today. In 1991, the college goalposts were reduced in width to , matching the NFL. For the 1991 and 1992 seasons, this meant potentially severe angles for short field goal attempts, since the hashmark width remained at . In 1993, the NCAA narrowed the distance between the hashmarks to , matching what was the width of hashmarks in the NFL from through ; the NFL narrowed the hashmarks in 1972 to goalpost width at . In the CFL, the hashmarks are , but the field is in width, wider than the American field.\n\nThe NFL increased the height of the uprights above the crossbar to in and in 1974. In , they were raised five feet to after the adoption of a proposal by New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick.\n\nThe \"slingshot\" goalpost, with a single post curving to support the crossbar, was invented by Jim Trimble and Joel Rottman in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The first were built by Alcan and displayed at Expo 67, the World's fair in Montreal. The NFL had standardized the goalposts in 1966 and adopted the slingshot for the season; the NCAA later adopted the same rule, but later allowed the use of \"offset\" goalposts, with two posts rather than one (which were the norm prior to the invention of the \"slingshot\" goalposts). The CFL was the first league to use the new goalposts; they made their debut in the 2nd game of the CFL's Eastern Conference final in 1966 (which was played at Montreal's Autostade as Landsdowne Park [now TD Place Stadium], the home of Ottawa Rough Riders, was undergoing renovations), and were used in the Grey Cup the next week at Vancouver's Empire Stadium. Three schools in Division I FBS currently use dual-support posts: Florida State, LSU, and Washington State. A special exemption was allowed by the NFL for the New Orleans Saints to use the offset goalposts during the 2005 season, when they used LSU's stadium for home games after Hurricane Katrina.\n\nGoalposts at the professional level today are sometimes equipped with a camera mounted to the stanchion immediately behind the center of the crossbar. Since these cameras are both above and slightly behind the crossbar, a field goal attempt will be judged good if it strikes this equipment.\n\nIn 1989, the NCAA banned the kicking tee for field goals and extra points, requiring kicks from the ground.\n\nDuring the NFL season, a record 90 field goals of 50 yards or longer were made. In , this record was increased to 92 field goals of 50 yards or longer.\n\nAs recorded in Guinness World Records:\n\nThe record for a field goal at any level is 69 yards. It was kicked by Ove Johansson of the Abilene Christian University Wildcats in the 1976 game against East Texas State University Lions (now Texas A&M University–Commerce) in Shotwell Stadium, Abilene, Texas.\n\nThe longest field goal made was 64 yards by Matt Prater of the Denver Broncos on December 8, 2013. The longest field goal attempt in an NFL game was 76 yards by Sebastian Janikowski on September 28, 2008.\n\nIn the history of the NFL regular season, only 19 field goals have been made from at least 60 yards:\n\nPrior to Dempsey's 1970 kick, the longest field goal in NFL history was 56 yards, by Bert Rechichar of the Baltimore Colts A 55-yard field goal, achieved by a drop kick, was recorded by Paddy Driscoll in , and stood as the unofficial record until that point; some sources indicate a 54-yarder by Glenn Presnell in as the due to the inability to precisely verify Driscoll's kick.\n\nIn a pre-season NFL game between the Denver Broncos and the Seattle Seahawks on August 29, 2002, Ola Kimrin kicked a 65-yard field goal. However, because pre-season games are not counted toward official records, this accomplishment is not the official record.\n\n\n\nAll of the above kicks were successful with the use of a kicking tee, which was banned by the NCAA after the 1988 season.\n\n\nThe longest known drop-kicked field goal in college football was a 62-yard kick from Pat O'Dea, an Australian kicker who played on the Wisconsin Badgers football team. O'Dea's kick took place in a blizzard against Northwestern on November 15, 1898.\n\nThe longest field goal in U Sports football history is 59 yards, by Niko Difonte of Calgary Dinos, playing against the UBC Thunderbirds on November 11, 2017. The field goal was the final and winning play of the 81st Hardy Cup.\n\n\n\n\nField goal returns are rare in the NFL, since an attempt with sufficient distance that misses the uprights will automatically be dead. Returns are possible when a field goal is short, but in that case returners will usually down the ball so as to scrimmage from the spot of the kick. Normally, a return will only be attempted when there is not enough time left in the half to run a play from scrimmage. Nevertheless, four field goals have been returned for at least 107 yards in the 21st century:\n\nBecause the goalposts in Canadian football are on the goal line, and because downing the ball in the end zone results in the kicking team scoring a single point, field goal returns are much more common. The longest missed field goal return in the CFL is 131 total yards. Against the Montreal Alouettes on August 22, 1958, the Toronto Argonauts' Boyd Carter ran 15 yards, then threw a lateral to Dave Mann, who then returned it for the final 116 yards. This return, which started 21 yards behind the goal line, was during the era of 25-yard end zones (which made the maximum theoretical missed field return distance 134 yards in those days) and therefore cannot be met or exceeded on the modern field with 20-yard end zones. Since the shortening of the end zones in the CFL in 1986, a field goal has been returned for the maximum 129 yards on four occasions: by Bashir Levingston of the Toronto Argonauts on June 28, 2007, by Dominique Dorsey also of the Toronto Argonauts on August 2, 2007, by Tristan Jackson of the Saskatchewan Roughriders on July 14, 2012 and by Trent Guy of the Montreal Alouettes on September 23, 2012.\n\nIn NCAA college football, only five missed field goals returns for touchdowns have ever been returned 100 yards or more:\n\nIn U Sports football, like in the CFL, the longest possible missed field goal return is 129 yards, and this has occurred three times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34009510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34009510", "title": "Gold Coast Aquatic Centre", "text": "Gold Coast Aquatic Centre\n\nThe Gold Coast Aquatic Centre (also known as the Optus Aquatic Centre for the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games) is a public swimming pool complex located in the Southport Broadwater Parklands on the Gold Coast, Queensland. It was the swimming and diving facility for the 2018 Commonwealth Games.\n\nThe \"Gold Coast Aquatic Centre\" opened in the 1960s as the \"Southport Pool\". The complex was renamed to the \"Gold Coast Aquatic Centre\" in the late 2000s. In 2018, the Gold Coast hosted the Commonwealth Games. The \"Gold Coast Aquatic Centre\" was the swimming and diving facility for the event. Approximately $40 million was spent on redeveloping the complex. The redevelopment included the construction of an additional 10-lane competition pool, additional change rooms and new meeting rooms. Although the expansion was expected to be completed by 2017, the construction was brought forward to allow the venue to host the Pan Pacific Swimming Championships in 2014. Work began on the redevelopment in March 2013.\n\nThe 2014 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships were held at the Gold Coast Aquatic Centre and were headlined by all-time record holder for Olympic gold medals Michael Phelps who won three gold medals.\n\nPrior to the 2014 major refurbishment of the Centre, the Gold Coast Aquatic Centre had a number of facilities. These including:\n\nDuring the 2014 refurbishment, additional water facilities were added as follows:\n\nThe refurbishment building design by Cox Rayner Architects has received the 2015 Queensland State Architecture Award for Public Architecture from the Australian Institute of Architects.\n\nThe refurbishment Aquatic design was Completed by Stevenson & Associates Pty Ltd.\nA number of programs and classes are based at the \"Gold Coast Aquatic Centre\". These include:\n\nAdditionally, Competitive, Masters, and Triathlon Squads are based at the complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "43434198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43434198", "title": "Grand Prix Leende", "text": "Grand Prix Leende\n\nGrand Prix Leende or GP Leende is an elite women's road bicycle race held annually since 2012 in Leende, the Netherlands. The time trial is together with the time trial at the Omloop van Borsele, part of the Dutch national time trial competition (Dutch: \"KNWU tijdritcompetitie\").\n"}
{"id": "2989618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989618", "title": "Grand slam (baseball)", "text": "Grand slam (baseball)\n\nIn baseball, a grand slam is a home run hit with all three bases occupied by baserunners (\"bases loaded\"), thereby scoring four runs—the most possible in one play. According to \"The Dickson Baseball Dictionary\", the term originated in the card game of contract bridge, in which a \"grand slam\" involves taking all the possible tricks. The word \"slam\", by itself, usually is connected with a loud sound, particularly of a door being closed with excess force; thus, \"slamming the door\" on one's opponent(s), in addition to the bat slamming the ball into a home run.\n\nRoger Connor is believed to have been the first major league player to hit a grand slam, on September 10, 1881, for the Troy Trojans. Although Charlie Gould hit one for the Boston Red Stockings (now the Atlanta Braves) in the National Association (NA) on September 5, 1871, the NA is not recognized by MLB as a major league.\n\nAlex Rodriguez has 25 career grand slams, the most by any player in Major League Baseball history, passing Lou Gehrig's 23 on September 20, 2013. Don Mattingly set the one-season record with six grand slams in – remarkably, the only grand slams of his major league career. Travis Hafner tied Mattingly's Major League record in , while in , Albert Pujols tied the one-season National League record of five grand slams set by Ernie Banks in .\n\nSeveral grand slams, the first being Connor's in 1881, consisted of a player hitting a walk-off grand slam for a one-run victory; some baseball observers call this an \"ultimate grand slam\". Roberto Clemente is the only player to have hit a walk-off inside-the-park grand slam in a one-run victory; the Pittsburgh Pirates defeated the Chicago Cubs 9–8 on July 25, 1956 at Forbes Field, a park known for its spacious outfield.\n\nOn April 10, 1980 – on Opening Day, the Milwaukee Brewers' Sixto Lezcano hit a walk-off Grand Slam, reportedly the first such feat on an Opening Day. (Lezcano also has the distinction of hitting a Grand Slam the previous year, also on Opening Day.)\n\nDuring the major league season, grand slams accounted for 132 of the 5017 home runs hit (2.6%). On June 13–14, , the Minnesota Twins hit grand slams in consecutive games against the Boston Red Sox, including a walk-off grand slam by Jason Kubel in the 12th inning on June 13.\n\nIn , the Chicago White Sox hit grand slams in three consecutive games against the Houston Astros (June 23–25). Scott Podsednik hit the only grand slam of his career in the series opener. Joe Crede followed up with a slam of his own on Saturday, and Tadahito Iguchi hit a game tying grand slam in the bottom of the ninth with two outs in the series finale. (This followed a three run blast by Iguchi in the bottom of the eighth.) The White Sox became the first team to accomplish this since the Detroit Tigers in . On the other hand, the Kansas City Royals surrendered grand slams in three straight games; two against the Baltimore Orioles (April 13–14) and one against the Tigers (April 16).\n\nAlso in 2006, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians set a major league record by hitting five grand slams prior to the All-Star break, on his way to tying Mattingly for one season (his sixth was on August 13.) On July 16, Carlos Beltrán and Cliff Floyd of the New York Mets hit grand slams during an 11-run sixth inning against the Chicago Cubs, marking the eighth time two grand slams were hit in a team's at-bat (the fourth time in National League history).\n\nFour players hit a grand slam in their first Major League at-bat: Bill Duggleby (), Jeremy Hermida (), Kevin Kouzmanoff (), and Daniel Nava (). Kouzmanoff, Nava, and Duggleby hit theirs on the first pitch; Hermida's grand slam was in a pinch-hit at bat.\n\nTony Cloninger is the only pitcher to hit two grand slams in one game, for the Atlanta Braves in a contest against the San Francisco Giants.\n\nFélix Hernández of the Seattle Mariners became the first American League pitcher since the designated hitter rule went into effect in to hit a grand slam when he did so on June 23, 2008, off New York Mets ace Johan Santana in an interleague game.\n\nThe only major leaguer to hit two grand slams in one inning is Fernando Tatís of the St. Louis Cardinals, on April 23, 1999 at Dodger Stadium, with both grand slams coming off Los Angeles' Chan Ho Park in the third inning. Tatis was only the second National League player to hit two grand slams in one game, joining Cloninger. Park was only the second pitcher in major league history to give up two grand slams in one inning; Bill Phillips of the Pittsburgh Pirates did it on August 16, 1890, one to Tom Burns and one to Malachi Kittridge, but Park was the first to give up both to the same batter. Tatis had never hit a grand slam before in his career. Bill Mueller is the only player to hit grand slams from both sides of the plate in the same game, when he hit 2 on July 29, 2003 for the Boston Red Sox vs. the Texas Rangers. Robin Ventura is the only player to hit a grand slam in both games of a doubleheader, when he did so on May 20, 1999 for the New York Mets against the Milwaukee Brewers.\n\nIn Japan's professional league, the feat of multiple grand slams in a single inning by a team has been accomplished three times; most recently on April 1, 2007 by José Fernández and Takeshi Yamasaki of the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles. The Daiei Hawks accomplished the feat in .\n\nOn August 25, 2011, the New York Yankees, hosting the Oakland A's, became the first team in MLB history to hit three grand slams in one game. Robinson Canó, Russell Martin and Curtis Granderson took pitchers Rich Harden, Fautino de los Santos, and Bruce Billings deep, with each grand slam being hit in a different inning. Coming back from a 7–1 deficit, the second grand slam gave the Yankees their first lead of the game; they went on to win 22–9.\n\nOn July 13, 2014, Buster Posey and batterymate Madison Bumgarner of the San Francisco Giants hit grand slams against the Arizona Diamondbacks. It marked the first time in Major League Baseball history that batterymates hit grand slams in the same game.\n\nOn June 3, 2017, a record-breaking seven grand slams were hit on one day: one each for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Milwaukee Brewers, Atlanta Braves, Colorado Rockies, Chicago Cubs, Seattle Mariners, and most notably, by the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim whose Albert Pujols hit his 600th career home run.\n\nA player on the home team that hits a grand slam in the ninth or subsequent inning, which wins his team the game, is known as a \"Walk-off grand slam\".\n\nStarting in the 1990s, a walk-off grand slam that erases a three-run deficit has come to be known as an ultimate grand slam. There have been 30 such instances documented in major league history – all taking place during the regular season, 15 of those coming with two outs. Of the 30 home runs, only Roberto Clemente's was hit inside the park, at spacious Forbes Field on July 25, 1956. Pirates manager/third base coach Bobby Bragan instructed him to stop at third, but Clemente ran through the stop sign to score the winning run. Del Crandall's September 11, 1955, Alan Trammell's June 21, 1988, and Chris Hoiles' May 17, 1996 grand slams occurred under the cliché situation: bases loaded, two outs, full count, bottom of the ninth inning, and down by three runs. The most recent ultimate grand slam was hit by Chicago Cubs' infielder David Bote on August 12, 2018.\n\nThree players have hit two walk-off grand slams in a season, Cy Williams in 1926, Jim Presley in 1986, and Steve Pearce in 2017. Pearce's first was on July 27 (an 8–4 victory over the Oakland Athletics). followed by his second on July 30 (an ultimate grand slam, for an 11–10 win over the Los Angeles Angels), becoming the first player in MLB history to hit multiple walk-off grand slams within the span of a single week.\n\nOnly five pitchers in major league history have surrendered two game-ending grand slam home runs in one season, according to the Elias Sports Bureau:\n\n\"Get out the rye bread and mustard, Grandma, it is grand salami time!\"- used by longtime Seattle Mariners lead commentator Dave Niehaus from the 1995 season until his death in November 2010. Currently used by Niehaus' longtime partner Rick Rizzs.\n\nHowever, archives have surfaced showing Milwaukee Brewers longtime announcer Bob Uecker using the term \"Grand Salami\" back in 1982, when the offense-tending team were dubbed \"Harvey's Wallbangers\" (a reference to manager Harvey Kuenn, and a takeoff of the cocktail Harvey Wallbanger).\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "930839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930839", "title": "Hipódromo Camarero", "text": "Hipódromo Camarero\n\nHipódromo Camarero, formerly known as El Nuevo Comandante, is a horse racing building located in Canóvanas, Puerto Rico, to the east of San Juan and Carolina. It is about a fifteen-minute drive from Carolina's Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport, and 25 minutes east from the Isla Verde hotel area. The new administration of Camarero Race Track Corporation start operations on January 5, 2007.\n\nEl Nuevo Comandante was built in 1976,and opened on October 31, 1976, to substitute the original \"El Comandante\" building, which had been located in Carolina, from January 1957 to mid October 1976. It has become arguably the most important horse racing complex in the island, holding horse races every Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.\n\nEl Nuevo Comandante features a betting window, in which players can try their luck at different games, such as \"El Pool Pote\" and others. The top award a player can win at El Nuevo Comandante is the \"Pool Pote\" (Pool Pot) and it reached a staggering 12 Million dollars and has been the largest pot ever won in Puerto Rico's Horse Racing Industry. In addition to the betting windows at El Nuevo Comandante, the Industry has a link of betting agencies throughout Puerto Rico. These are called \"agencias hipicas\", and people can go there to place bets as well and enjoy local refreshments and snacks.\n\nRaces at \"El Nuevo Comandante\" have been shown on local television and Les Oraliens on radio since the building was inaugurated. Some of the most famous television sportscasters in Puerto Rican history have commented from there, including Norman H. Davila and Manolo Rivera Morales.\n\nSome famous jockeys have run there too, including Hall of Famer Angel Cordero, John Velazquez and J.C. Diaz.\n\nFamous horses imported to run at El Nuevo Comandante have been: Kentucky Derby and Belmont Stakes winner Bold Forbes, Santa Anita Derby winner Mister Frisky, Bandit Bomber and Dawn Glory (Stakes winner in USA).\n\nAmong the native horses: Hurly Road (Triple Crown winner), Ribot's Verset (one of the best sires in Puerto Rican history), My favorite Place (Multiple allowance winner in California) Capa Prieto (undefeated for years), Camarero (Holds a record of 56 consecutive wins in a row), Vuelve Candy B (Triple Crown and Caribbean Derby winner and the only horse to earn a million dollars in Puerto Rico), Verset Dancer (Caribbean Derby winner and winner in USA) and Verset's Jet (son of Verset Dancer) who's the first horse to complete the Caribbean Derby and Confraternidad Stakes double. \n\nEl Nuevo Comandante also has the infamous distinction (Guinness record) of having the horse with the most consecutive losses (Dona Chepa) with 134 consecutive loses (through 11/2/08 without a win)\n\nEl Nuevo Comandante is also the site where the most famous race in the Caribbean has been held for 32 years: The Clasico del Caribe is celebrated there yearly, with horses participating from Colombia, Venezuela, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Puerto Rico, among other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "49044627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49044627", "title": "Hong Kong Practical Shooting Association", "text": "Hong Kong Practical Shooting Association\n\nHong Kong Practical Shooting Association (HKPSA) is the Hong Kong region for practical shooting under the International Practical Shooting Confederation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2661457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2661457", "title": "Inter Club d'Escaldes", "text": "Inter Club d'Escaldes\n\nInter Club d'Escaldes is an Andorran football club based in Escaldes-Engordany. The club currently plays in Primera Divisió.\n\nInter Club d'Escaldes was founded in Escaldes-Engordany in 1991 and being founder member of Primera Divisió in 1995, the Premier League of Andorra. The club was playing since then in the top flight until April 2015 when the team was relegated after finishing 8th in the regular league. The club returned in Primera Divisió after two seasons, in May 2017.\n\n\"L'Inter\" achieved twice the third position in Primera Divisió, during two consecutives seasons in 1999-00 and 2000–01, and became runners-up in Copa Constitució during the 2001–02 season, losing 2–0 against FC Lusitanos.\n\nIn its beginnings the club had a strong support of \"Construccions Modernes\", a company linked to the construction, to the point that its initials \"CM\" remain until the present time in its shield. Due to team colors, blue and black, the team and fans are referenced as \"blau-i-negres\".\n\n\n\"As of 23 September 2018. \"\n\n"}
{"id": "8449588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8449588", "title": "Iran national amateur boxing athletes", "text": "Iran national amateur boxing athletes\n\nIran national amateur boxing athletes represents the Islamic Republic of Iran in regional, continental and world tournaments and matches sanctioned by the Amateur International Boxing Association (AIBA).\n\nEmmanuel Agassi, father of famous tennis player, Andre Agassi, represented Iran as a boxer in the 1948 and 1952 Summer Olympics.\n\nTen amateur boxers represented IR Iran in this edition of the Asiad. Iran is ranked 6th with 1 gold medal and 3 bronze medals.\n\n"}
{"id": "4772545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4772545", "title": "Jinnah Stadium, Gujranwala", "text": "Jinnah Stadium, Gujranwala\n\nJinnah Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Gujranwala, Punjab, Pakistan. It is used mostly for cricket matches. The stadium capacity is 40000\n\nThe creator of this stadium is Alhaj Muhammad Aslam Butt (former mayor of Gujranwala). The stadium was designed by Amjad Saleem Tahir CEO Of Aeys Associates and is located on Sialkot road. Today, it is mostly used for sports day of schools.\n\nThis stadium hosted an ODI match in the 1996 Cricket World Cup between Pakistan and UAE.\n\nThe following table summarises the One Day International centuries scored at Jinnah Stadium, Gujranwala.\n\n"}
{"id": "47899520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47899520", "title": "Kintele Aquatic Complex", "text": "Kintele Aquatic Complex\n\nKintele Aquatic Complex in Brazzaville Republic of the Congo. It is used for Swimming competitions \n"}
{"id": "41071781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071781", "title": "List of doping cases in sport (A)", "text": "List of doping cases in sport (A)\n\nThis is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with \"A\".\n"}
{"id": "26263399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26263399", "title": "Me and Bobby Fischer", "text": "Me and Bobby Fischer\n\nMe & Bobby Fischer is a documentary about Bobby Fischer's last years as his old friend Saemundur Palsson gets him out of jail in Japan and helps him settle in Iceland.\n\nThe film premiered at the Green Light Films’ Bíódagar film festival in April 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548981", "title": "Midfielder", "text": "Midfielder\n\nA midfielder is an association football position. Midfielders are generally positioned on the field between their team's defenders and forwards. Some midfielders play a disciplined defensive role, breaking up attacks, and are otherwise known as defensive midfielders. Others blur the boundaries, being more mobile and efficient in passing: they are commonly referred to as deep-lying midfielders, play-makers, box-to-box, or holding midfielders. The number of midfielders on a team and their assigned roles depends on the team's formation; the collective group of these players on the field is sometimes referred to as the midfield.\n\nMost managers assign at least one midfielder to disrupt the opposing team's attacks, while others may be tasked with creating goals, or have equal responsibilities between attack and defence. Midfielders are the players who typically travel the greatest distance during a match. Because midfielders arguably have the most possession during a game they are among the fittest players on the pitch.\n\nCentral or centre midfielders are players whose role is divided roughly equally between attack and defence and to dominate the play around the centre of the pitch. These players will try to pass the ball to the team's attacking midfielders and forwards and may also help their team's attacks by making runs into the opposition's penalty area and attempting shots on goal themselves.\n\nWhen the opposing team has the ball, a central midfielder may drop back to protect the goal or move forward and press the opposition ball-carrier to recover the ball. A centre midfielder defending their goal will move in front of their centre-backs in order to block long shots by the opposition and possibly track opposition midfielders making runs towards the goal.\n\nThe 4–3–3 and 4–5–1 formations each use three central midfielders. The 4−4−2 formation may use two central midfielders, and in the 4–2–3–1 formation one of the two deeper midfielders may be a central midfielder.\n\nThe term box-to-box midfielder refers to central midfielders who are hard-working and who have good all-round abilities, which makes them skilled at both defending and attacking. These players can therefore track back to their own box to make tackles and block shots and also run to the opponents' box to try to score. The change of trends and the deviation from the standard 4–4–2 formation to the 4–2–3–1 formation imposed restrictions on the typical box-to-box midfielders of the 80s, as teams' two midfield roles were now often divided into \"holders\" or \"creators\".\n\nLeft and right midfielders have a role balanced between attack and defence, similar to that of central midfielders, but they are positioned closer to the touchlines of the pitch. They may be asked to cross the ball into the opponents' penalty area to make scoring chances for their teammates, and when defending they may put pressure on opponents who are trying to cross.\n\nCommon modern formations that include left and right midfielders are the 4−4−2, the 4−4−1−1, the 4–2–3–1 and the 4−5−1 formations. Jonathan Wilson describes the development of the 4−4−2 formation: \"…the winger became a wide midfielder, a shuttler, somebody who might be expected to cross a ball but was also meant to put in a defensive shift.\" A notable example of a right midfielder is David Beckham.\nThe historic position of wing half (half-back) was given to midfielders who played near the side of the pitch. It became obsolete as wide players with defensive duties have tended to become more a part of the defence as full-backs.\n\nDefensive midfielders are midfield players who focus on protecting their team's goal. These players may defend a zone in front of their team's defence, or man mark specific opposition attackers. Defensive midfielders may also move to the full-back or centre-back positions if those players move forward to join in an attack.\nSergio Busquets described his attitude: \"The coach knows that I am an obedient player who likes to help out and if I have to run to the wing to cover someone's position, great.\" A good defensive midfielder needs good positional awareness, anticipation of opponent's play, marking, tackling, interceptions, passing and great stamina and strength (for their tackling).\n\nA holding or deep-lying midfielder stays close to their team's defence, while other midfielders may move forward to attack. The holding midfielder may also have responsibilities when their team has the ball. This player will make mostly short and simple passes to more attacking members of their team but may try some more difficult passes depending on the team's strategy. Marcelo Bielsa is considered as a pioneer for the use of a holding midfielder in defence. This position may be seen in the 4–2–3–1 and 4–4–2 diamond formations.\n\nInitially, a defensive midfielder, or \"destroyer\", and a playmaker, or \"creator\", were often fielded alongside each other as a team's two holding central midfielders. The destroyer was usually responsible for making tackles, regaining possession, and distributing the ball to the creator, while the creator was responsible for retaining possession and keeping the ball moving, often with long passes out to the flanks, in the manner of a more old-fashioned deep-lying playmaker or \"regista\". Early examples of a destroyer are Nobby Stiles, Herbert Wimmer, Marco Tardelli, while later examples include Claude Makélélé and Javier Mascherano, although several of these players also possessed qualities of other types of midfielders, and were therefore not confined to a single role. Early examples of a creator would be Gérson, Glenn Hoddle, and Sunday Oliseh, while a more recent example is Xabi Alonso, although the latter also had qualities which are mostly associated with carriers or destroyers. The latest and third type of holding midfielder developed as a box-to-box midfielder, or \"carrier\", neither entirely destructive nor creative, who is capable of winning back possession and subsequently advancing from deeper positions either by distributing the ball to a teammate and making late runs into the box, or by carrying the ball him or herself; recent examples of this type of player are Fernandinho, Yaya Touré, and Bastian Schweinsteiger, while Sami Khedira is a destroyer with carrying tendencies, and Luka Modrić is a carrier with several qualities of regista.\n\nA deep-lying playmaker is a holding midfielder who specializes in ball skills such as passing, rather than defensive skills like tackling. When this player has the ball, they may attempt longer or more complex passes than other holding players. They may try to set the tempo of their team's play, retain possession, or build plays through short exchanges, or they may try to pass the ball long to a centre forward or winger, or even pass short to a teammate in the hole, the area between the opponents' defenders and midfielders. In Italy, the deep-lying playmaker is known as a \"regista\", whereas in Brazil, it is known as a \"meia-armador\".\n\nWriter Jonathan Wilson described Xabi Alonso's role: \"although capable of making tackles, [he] focused on keeping the ball moving, occasionally raking long passes out to the flanks to change the angle of attack.\"\nThe historic central 'half back' position gradually retreated from the midfield line to provide increased protection against centre forwards – that dedicated defensive role is still commonly referred to as \"centre half\" as a legacy of its origins.\n\nAn attacking midfielder is a midfield player who is positioned in an advanced midfield position, usually between central midfield and the team's forwards, and who has a primarily offensive role.\n\nSome attacking midfielders are called \"trequartisti\" or \"fantasisti\" (, i.e. a creative playmaker between the forwards and the midfield), who are usually mobile, creative and highly skillful players, known for their deft touch, vision, ability to shoot from range, and passing prowess. However, not all attacking midfielders are trequartistas – some attacking midfielders are very vertical and are essentially auxiliary attackers who serve to link-up play, hold up the ball, or provide the final pass, i.e. secondary strikers.\n\nAccording to positioning along the field, attacking midfield may be divided into \"left, right\" and \"central attacking midfield\" roles but mostly important he is a striker behind the forwards. A central attacking midfielder may be referred to as a \"playmaker\", or \"number ten\" (due to the association of the number 10 shirt with this position). A good attacking midfielder needs good passing abilities, vision, the ability to make long shots, and solid dribbling skills.\n\nThese players typically serve as the offensive pivot of the team, and are sometimes said to be \"playing in the hole,\" although this term can also be used as deep-lying forward. The attacking midfielder is an important position that requires the player to possess superior technical abilities in terms of passing and dribbling, as well as, perhaps more importantly, the ability to read the opposing defence in order to deliver defence-splitting passes to the striker.\n\nThis specialist midfielder's main role is to create good shooting and goal-scoring opportunities using superior vision, control, and technical skill, by making crosses, through balls, and headed knockdowns to teammates. They may try to set up shooting opportunities for themselves by dribbling or performing a give-and-go with a teammate. Attacking midfielders may also make runs into the opponents' penalty area in order to shoot from another teammate's pass.\n\nWhere a creative attacking midfielder, i.e. an advanced playmaker, is regularly utilized, he or she is commonly the team's star player, and often wears the number 10 shirt. As such, a team is often constructed so as to allow their attacking midfielder to roam free and create as the situation demands. One such popular formation is the 4–4–2 \"diamond\" (or 4–1–2–1–2), in which defined attacking and defensive midfielders replace the more traditional pair of central midfielders. Known as the \"\"fantasista\" or \"trequartista\" in Italy, in Brazil, the offensive playmaker is known as the \"meia atacante\",\" whereas in Argentina and Uruguay, it is known as the \"\"enganche\".\"\n\nThe false attacking midfielder description has been used in Italian football to describe a player who is seemingly playing as an attacking midfielder in a 4–3–1–2 formation, but who eventually drops deeper into midfield, drawing opposing players out of position and creating space to be exploited by teammates making attacking runs; the false-attacking midfielder will eventually sit in a central midfield role and function as a deep-lying playmaker. The false-attacking midfielder is therefore usually a creative and tactically intelligent player with good vision, technique, movement, passing ability, and striking ability from distance. He should also be a hard-working player, who is able to read the game and help the team defensively.<ref name=\"Horncastle: Riccardo Montolivo straddles both sides of the Germany/Italy divide\"></ref>\n\nThe \"false 10\" or \"central winger\" is a type of midfielder, which differs from the false-attacking midfielder. Much like the \"false 9,\" his or her specificity lies in the fact that, unlike a traditional playmaker who stays behind the striker in the centre of the pitch, the false 10's goal is to drift wide when in possession of the ball to help both the wingers and fullbacks to overload the flanks. This means two problems for the opposing midfielders: either they let the false 10 drift wide, and his or her presence, along with both the winger and the fullback, creates a three-on-two player advantage wide; or they follow the false 10, but leave space in the centre of the pitch for wingers or onrushing midfielders to exploit. False 10s are usually traditional wingers who are told to play in the centre of the pitch, and their natural way of playing makes them drift wide and look to provide deliveries into the box for teammates. On occasion, the false-10 can also function in a different manner alongside a false-9, usually in a 4–6–0 formation, disguised as either a 4–3–3 or 4–2–3–1 formation. When other forwards or false-9s drop deep and draw defenders away from the false-10s, creating space in the middle of the pitch, the false-10 will then also surprise defenders by exploiting this space and moving out of position once again, often undertaking offensive dribbling runs forward towards goal, or running on to passes from false-9s, which in turn enables them to create goalscoring opportunities or go for goal themselves.\n\nIn modern football, the terms winger or wide player refer to a non-defender who plays on the left or right sides of the pitch. These terms can apply to left or right midfielders, left or right attacking midfielders, or left or right forwards. Left or right-sided defenders such as wing-backs or full-backs are generally not called wingers.\n\nIn the 2−3−5 formation popular in the late 19th century wingers remained mostly near the touchlines of the pitch, and were expected to cross the ball for the team's inside and centre forwards. Traditionally, wingers were purely attacking players and were not expected to track back and defend. This began to change in the 1960s. In the 1966 World Cup, England manager Alf Ramsey did not select wingers from the quarter-final onwards. This team was known as the \"Wingless Wonders\" and led to the modern 4–4–2 formation.\n\nThis has led to most modern wide players having a more demanding role in the sense that they are expected to provide defensive cover for their full-backs and track back to repossess the ball, as well as provide skillful crosses for centre forwards and strikers. Some forwards are able to operate as wingers behind a lone striker. In a three-man midfield, specialist wingers are sometimes deployed down the flanks alongside the central midfielder or playmaker.\n\nEven more demanding is the role of wing-back, where the wide player is expected to provide both defence and attack. As the role of winger can be classed as a forward or a midfielder, so this role blurs the divide between defender and midfielder.\nA winger is an attacking midfielder who is stationed in a wide position near the touchlines. Wingers such as Stanley Matthews or Jimmy Johnstone used to be classified as forwards in traditional W-shaped formations, and were formally known as \"Outside Right\" or \"Outside Left,\" but as tactics evolved through the last 40 years, wingers have dropped to deeper field positions and are now usually classified as part of the midfield, usually in 4–4–2 or 4–5–1 formations (but while the team is on the attack, they tend to resemble 4–2–4 and 4–3–3 formations respectively).\n\nThe responsibilities of the winger include:\n\nThe prototypical winger is fast, tricky and enjoys 'hugging' the touchline, that is, running downfield close to the touchline and delivering crosses. However, players with different attributes can thrive on the wing as well. Some wingers prefer to cut \"infield\" (as opposed to staying wide) and pose a threat as playmakers by playing diagonal passes to forwards or taking a shot at goal. Even players who are not considered quick, have been successfully fielded as wingers at club and international level for their ability to create play from the flank. Occasionally wingers are given a free role to roam across the front line and are relieved of defensive responsibilities.\n\nThe typical abilities of wingers include:\n\nAlthough wingers are a familiar part of football, the use of wingers is by no means universal. There are many successful football teams who operate without wingers. A famous example is Milan, who typically play in a narrow midfield diamond formation or in a Christmas tree formation (4–3–2–1), relying on full-backs to provide the necessary width down the wings.\n\nAn inverted winger is a modern tactical development of the traditional winger position. Most wingers are assigned to either side of the field based on their footedness, with right-footed players on the right and left-footed players on the left. This assumes that assigning a player to their natural side ensures a more powerful cross as well as greater ball-protection along the touch-lines. However, when the position is inverted and a winger instead plays inside-out on the opposite flank (i.e., a right-footed player as a left inverted winger), they effectively become supporting strikers and primarily assume a role in the attack.\n\nAs opposed to traditionally pulling the opponent's full-back out and down the flanks before crossing the ball in near the by-line, positioning a winger on the opposite side of the field allows him or her to cut-in around the 18-yard box, either threading passes between defenders or taking a shot on goal using his or her dominant foot. This offensive tactic has found popularity in the modern game due to the fact that it gives traditional wingers increased mobility as playmakers and goalscorers, such as the left-footed Domenico Berardi of Sassuolo who achieved 30 career goals faster than any player in the past half-century of Serie A football. Not only are inverted wingers able to push full-backs onto their weak sides, but they are also able to spread and force the other team to defend deeper as forwards and wing-backs route towards the goal, ultimately creating more scoring opportunities.\n\nOther midfielders within this tactical archetype include Lionel Messi and Gareth Bale, as well as Megan Rapinoe of the USWNT. Clubs such as Real Madrid often choose to play their wingers on the \"wrong\" flank for this reason; former Real Madrid coach José Mourinho often played Ángel Di María on the right and Cristiano Ronaldo on the left. Former Bayern Munich manager Jupp Heynckes often played the left-footed Arjen Robben on the right and the right-footed Franck Ribéry on the left. One of the foremost practitioners of playing from either flank was German winger Jürgen Grabowski, whose flexibility helped Germany to third place in the 1970 World Cup, and the world title in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "4790869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4790869", "title": "Miramar Misiones", "text": "Miramar Misiones\n\nClub Sportivo Miramar Misiones, usually known simply as Miramar Misiones is an Uruguayan football club based in Montevideo. The club was formed from the merger of two clubs: Miramar (founded in October 17, 1915) and Misiones (founded in March 26, 1906), in June 1980. As part of the merger, the new strip for the new club was a mixture of those of the previous two clubs. The home strip (white and black) is the old Miramar strip, and the away strip was the one used by Misiones. What made this merger notable was that Miramar and Misiones were local derby rivals, having both originated in the same neighbourhood of Montevideo.\n\nPrevious to the creation of this club, Miramar also merged with legendary club Albion in 1976, forming 'Albion Miramar'. However, this entity lasted for only 2 seasons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"As of 24 October 2018.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7957046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957046", "title": "Mozambique at the 1984 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mozambique at the 1984 Summer Olympics\n\nMozambique competed at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States.\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 100m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100m Backstroke \n\nMen's 200m Individual Medley\n\n"}
{"id": "27650429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27650429", "title": "Nicaragua at the Paralympics", "text": "Nicaragua at the Paralympics\n\nNicaragua made its Paralympic Games début at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens. Its sole representative, wheelchair athlete Mario Madriz, entered two events in athletics. Nicaragua did not take part in the 2008 Summer Games, and has never participated in the Winter Paralympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "5857102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5857102", "title": "Nomis", "text": "Nomis\n\nNomis is an Australian football shoe manufacturer founded by former Adidas senior vice president Simon Skirrow. It distributes its shoes in the United Kingdom, United States, Germany, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nSkirrow spent five years creating the boots, which are made from kangaroo leather. 'Nomis' is an anagram of 'Simon'. Nomis shoes are specifically developed for improved performance under wet conditions with the use of specially tanned leathers. But it was soon discovered that Skirrow never created any of the technologies and instead they were invented by people in the background.\n\nNomis transitioned to the European market rather dismally in 2009 after taking a large portion of Australia's four football codes boot sales in previous years. Due to the lack of progress and publicity in Europe, Nomis decided to restructure as Pele football, they now have a decent share in the European market, gain far better publicity and still introduce new models in Australasia under Nomis.\nFootball superstar Harry Kewell used Nomis after turning down multimillion-dollar offers from Adidas, Nike and Reebok.\n\nNomis AG did go bankrupt in 2010 due to a dispute between the shareholders. They are no longer using the leather technology acknowledged by him to have been invented by others and shown to him in a chance meeting one afternoon.\n\nThey did add a variety of price points to enable the brand to be utilized by the whole market. They are offering the classic, Glove style as well as the Spark, a lightweight style and the entry-priced Instinct at Rebel. Due to untimely delays in the production, the shoes missed the core soccer and football season, so the launch was delayed. Rebel has decided to continue with Nomis as a house brand (exclusive to them in Australia) and will produce Nomis for at least one more year in a new factory in China.\n\nThe products were being produced in a factory in China that makes mid-range to top-range-level brands, although yet again this would now seem to have come to an end. The principals of Nomis and the factory have mutually decided to part ways, after a difficult start in the first two seasons. The previous factory has made for Diadora, Lotto, Patrick, Umbro, Penalty, Admiral.\n\nThe brand is doing well in some markets through closeouts and some newer unique new styles. It will continue in North America, under new management and will offer factory direct to clubs/players distribution, which can be utilized as a fund raiser for soccer clubs. The brand is still being worn by top level athletes in various sports including, rugby league, AFL, Rugby Union, and Football professionals.\n\nNomis is the official supplier and sponsor of numerous sport association teams, players and associations, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "335180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335180", "title": "Original Six", "text": "Original Six\n\nThe Original Six is the group of six teams that made up the National Hockey League (NHL) for the 25 seasons between the 1942–43 season and the 1967 NHL expansion. These six teams are the Boston Bruins, Chicago Black Hawks, Detroit Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens, New York Rangers, and the Toronto Maple Leafs, all of which are still active franchises in the league.\n\nOf the Original Six, only the Toronto Maple Leafs have not advanced to the Stanley Cup Finals since the expansion, while the other five have appeared in at least three Finals since 1967 and have each won a championship at least once.\n\nThe term was not used during the era, having originated after the 1967 expansion. Only Montreal and Toronto are actual original charter members of the NHL in 1917, but all six joined the NHL in the league's first decade, and are commonly considered as a traditional set.\n\nThe NHL consisted of ten teams during the 1920s, but the league experienced a period of retrenchment during the Great Depression, losing the Pittsburgh Pirates/Philadelphia Quakers, Ottawa Senators/St. Louis Eagles, and Montreal Maroons in succession to financial pressures. The New York/Brooklyn Americans—one of the league's original expansion franchises, along with the Bruins and Maroons—lasted longer, but played as wards of the league from 1936 onward. World War II and its own economic strains severely depleted the league's Canadian player base, since Canada entered the war in September 1939 and many players left for military service. The Americans suspended operations in the fall of 1942, leaving the NHL with just six teams.\n\nDespite various outside efforts to initiate expansion after the war, including attempted revivals of the Maroons and Americans franchises, the league's membership would remain at six teams for the next twenty-five seasons.\n\nThe Original Six era has been criticized for having a playoff system that was too easy, since the top four teams in the regular season advanced to the playoffs. At least, the playoff system was too easy for the top three teams in the league, i.e. Montreal, Toronto, and Detroit. The standings were very static. Montreal never missed the playoffs between 1943 and 1967 and Detroit and Toronto only missed three times each, leaving the other three teams to compete for the one remaining berth. Montreal won 10 of the 25 Stanley Cups awarded during the Original Six era; Toronto won 9, and Detroit won 5. Chicago was the only remaining team to win a Stanley Cup during this era, in 1961. \n\nIt was not a coincidence that two of the dominant teams were based in Canada, and the third was based in a U.S. city which borders Canada. The league had a rule that gave each team exclusive rights to negotiate contracts with promising local players within 50 miles of its home ice. If a player was not within the 50-mile limit, that player was free to field offers from any team. Once a player agreed to an NHL sponsorship-level contract, the NHL club could assign him to its sponsored junior squad – its \"sponsorship list\".\n\nSince Toronto and Montreal's metropolitan areas contained abundant hockey prospects, this put them at a major recruiting advantage over Boston, New York, and Chicago, which had very few such prospects in their territories. Detroit had Southwestern Ontario as part of its territory; thus it did not have the major advantage of the Canadian teams but was better positioned than the other American ones.\n\nThis phenomenon had the impact of limiting player movement, and as a result the Original Six rosters were very static. Until the lengthening of careers in the 1980s, only one twenty-year player in NHL history, Larry Robinson, started his career after 1964, and it is generally accepted that the weakest Calder Trophy winners (Rookies of the Year) of all time were selected in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nIn practice, all six teams recruited players from Canada by sponsoring minor league, junior, and amateur teams. As a result, the league was almost entirely composed of Canadians who had come up through the junior and minor pro leagues. While the league boasted a handful of good American players during the 1940s (including All-Star goalkeepers Frank Brimsek and Mike Karakas, defenseman John Mariucci, and forward Cully Dahlstrom), these were mostly products of the American Hockey Association, which folded in 1942. At the beginning of the Original Six era, the Chicago Black Hawks were owned by Major Frederic McLaughlin, a fiercely patriotic man who tried to stock his roster with as many American players as possible. However, he died in 1944, and his estate sold the team to a group controlled by the Norris family, who also owned the Red Wings. After that time, the Black Hawks had only a handful of U.S.-born players, just like the other U.S.-based teams. The Canadian teams had fewer than a handful. The only American-born Maple Leaf during the entire era was Gerry Foley who was born in Ware, Massachusetts but grew up in Garson, Ontario, and played just four games for Toronto (although he played two full seasons for the New York Rangers). The Canadiens' only American-born skater was Norm Dussault, a forward who was born in Springfield, Massachusetts but grew up in Sherbrooke, Quebec. An American goalie named John Aiken also played exactly half a game for the Habs on March 13, 1958: he was a Boston Bruins team employee who filled in for his team's opponent as an emergency replacement when Jacques Plante was injured during the second period of a game at the Boston Garden.\n\nVery few all American-developed NHL players emerged in the 1950s and 1960s, when Tommy Williams was the only American to play regularly. Both Williams and Mariucci complained about anti-American bias, and U.S. Olympic team stars John Mayasich and Bill Cleary turned down offers from NHL teams. Although there were several European-born players (e.g., Slovakian-born Hall of Famer Stan Mikita) who immigrated to Canada as children, the only European-born and trained player of the era was Sweden's Ulf Sterner, who briefly played for the Rangers in 1965. The league's first Black player, Willie O'Ree, came up during this era, playing for the Boston Bruins between 1958 and 1961, although he turned out to be the last Black player until the 1970s.\n\nAfter World War II, all six NHL owners consistently rejected any bids for expansion, and in the eyes of many observers changed the criteria for entry every time with a bent to defeating any such bid. They also reneged on promises to allow the still-extant but dormant Maroons and Americans franchises to re-activate.\n\nThe league tolerated monopolistic practices by the owners. At one point, for instance, Red Wings owner James E. Norris effectively owned the Black Hawks as well and was also the largest stockholder in the Rangers. He also had significant influence over the Bruins by way of mortgages extended to the team to help keep it afloat during the Depression. This led some critics to joke that NHL stood for \"Norris House League.\"\n\nThe control of owners over their teams was absolute. Players who got on the wrong side of their team owner were often harshly punished, either by being traded out of town or sent to the minors. An example of this is the case of bruising Red Wings forward Ted Lindsay who, after agitating for a players' union, was sent to the last-place Black Hawks. Norris' conglomerate did not invest in Boston, Chicago, and New York; these teams mostly just filled dates for the Norris arenas. A measure of the dominance of Detroit, Montreal, and Toronto in the era can be seen in that between the Bruins' Stanley Cup wins in 1941 and 1970, every single Cup (save for Chicago in 1961) was won by the Red Wings, the Canadiens, or the Maple Leafs, and those three teams failed to make the playoffs only eight times combined in the era.\n\nLabour conditions for the players were also poor. Players' medical bills were paid for only two months after an injury. Moreover, whenever players were sent to the minors, they not only had their salaries cut, but their relocation costs were not covered. The players were also not paid for off-season promotions, and did not share in the funds of promotions such as trading cards as was done in baseball. In the earlier era, players were allowed to play other sports, such as lacrosse, for money in the off-season, but this was disallowed in the standard Original Six-era contract. Players were signed as early as 16, binding them to one of the teams, who then directed their development.\n\nThe pension plan, formed in 1946, while ostensibly for the players' benefit, was kept secret, hiding large amounts of money under the control of the owners. The pension plan was only exposed in 1989 when it was found that a $25 million surplus existed. The stark labor conditions led to several players' disputes, including a 1957 anti-trust action and attempted union formation, and subsequent actions in the early 1960s by Toronto players Bob Baun and Carl Brewer, leading to the 1967 formation of the NHL Players Association.\n\nAs more conservative owners left the NHL, a younger guard that was more receptive to expansion came into the league. By 1963, when Rangers governor William M. Jennings first introduced to his peers the idea of expanding the NHL, Major League Baseball and the National Football League were adding teams, while the American Football League was becoming an attractive alternative to the NFL. Jennings proposed that the NHL add two new teams on the American West Coast for the 1964-65 season, basing his argument on concerns that the Western Hockey League intended to operate as a major league in the near future and possibly compete against the NHL for talent; he also hoped that a West Coast presence would make the NHL truly national and improve the league's chances of returning to national television in the United States (its broadcast deal with CBS expired in 1960). While the governors did not agree to Jennings' proposal, the topic of expansion arose every time the owners met from then on out. In 1965, the league decided to double in size by adding six teams, and in February 1966, expansion franchises were awarded to Los Angeles, Minnesota, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, and the San Francisco-Oakland area. The six new clubs would begin play in the 1967–68 season. Thus, with Toronto's six-game victory over Montreal in the 1967 Stanley Cup Finals, the Original Six era came to a close.\n\nThe first dozen seasons (1967–68 through 1978–79) of the Expansion Era saw continued dominance by Original Six teams, including the Bobby Orr-led Bruins of the early 1970s and the Canadiens dynasty at the end of that decade. Expansion teams, by comparison, were not as dominant during that same time period, which can be partly attributed to expansion teams in general being weaker than existing clubs when first starting out. During those dozen seasons, only one expansion team hoisted the Cup (the Philadelphia Flyers, in 1974 and 1975), and only one Stanley Cup Finals series featured two expansion teams (the Flyers' 1975 win over the Buffalo Sabres). By the early 1980s – after further expansion, a merger with the WHA, and changes in conference/division alignment and playoff structure – expansion teams began reaching clear parity with the Original Six. Indeed, the 1979 Stanley Cup Finals between the Canadiens and Rangers would be the last Final featuring any Original Six team until 1986 (when the Canadiens claimed the Cup) as well as the last all-Original Six Final until Chicago's win over Boston in 2013. That same year, all six Original Six teams made the playoffs for the first time since 1996. Since the dawn of the Expansion Era, every Original Six team has won the Cup at least once except for Toronto, which has the longest active Cup drought in the NHL.\n\nSince the Expansion, the Montreal Canadiens have twice won the Cup by defeating other Original Six clubs in the playoffs, in 1978 (beating Detroit, Toronto, and Boston) and 1979 (besting Toronto, Boston, and New York). Also, the 1992 Pittsburgh Penguins are the only team to also win the Cup after beating three of the Original Six (New York and Boston in the Wales Conference playoffs, and Chicago in the finals). Twice, the Eastern Conference champion beat two Original Six teams before being defeated by another in the Stanley Cup Final – the 2002 Carolina Hurricanes (beat Montreal and Toronto, lost to Detroit) and 2010 Philadelphia Flyers (beat Boston and Montreal, lost to Chicago). In 2013, the League moved the Red Wings to the Eastern Conference, leaving Chicago as the only Original Six team in the West. In 2015, the Tampa Bay Lightning became the first team to face only Original Six franchises in the four-round playoff era, beating Detroit, Montreal, and New York in the Eastern playoffs before falling in the finals to Chicago.\n\nThe last active player from the Original Six era was Wayne Cashman who retired with the Boston Bruins in 1983.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\" in 2015, five of the Original Six teams are the top five most valuable NHL clubs: the Rangers at approximately $1.2 billion, the Canadiens at $1.18 billion, the Maple Leafs at $1.15 billion, the Blackhawks at $925 million, and the Bruins at $750 million. The Red Wings rank eighth at $600 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4030029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4030029", "title": "Portaledge", "text": "Portaledge\n\nA portaledge is a deployable hanging tent system designed for rock climbers who spend multiple days and nights on a big wall climb. An assembled portaledge is a fabric-covered platform surrounded by a metal frame that hangs from a single point and has adjustable suspension straps. A separate cover, called a stormfly, covers the entire system in the event of bad weather.\n\nThe first portaledges used in Yosemite were non-collapsible cots purloined from Housekeeping Camp, a Yosemite Valley campground that featured primitive metal framed bunks for the campers. These heavy cots were used on multi-day climbs on granite monoliths like El Capitan, and then sometimes tossed off the summit for later retrieval. Mike Graham is credited with the first collapsible portaledge models available for retail purchase under the name of his company, Gramicci Products based in Ventura, California. The Gramicci Portaledge appeared in the very early 1980s and revolutionized multiday big wall comfort. There were a few minor manufacturers that also dabbled in portaledge design in the early 1980s but could not get any traction in this niche market and soon faded from sight. In late 1984 a small California based company called Fish Products started to manufacture one person single portaledges, designed by Russ Walling, the company founder. Fish Products is still manufacturing these portaledges some 25 years later. Other early Portaledge manufacturers were Fig, Lowe (never commercially available), and C&S Engineering.\n\nIn 1986, A5 Adventures was founded, headed up by Stanford-trained mechanical engineer John Middendorf who was the chief designer and founder. Previously, Middendorf and his companions Steve Bosque and Mike Corbett had nearly died due to portaledge failure during a three-day storm on the 2000 foot South Face of Half Dome, prompting Middendorf to redesign the modern portaledge. A5 portaledges were constructed of highly weatherproof fabrics and engineered to be structurally stable and strong. Three models were produced: the A5 Single, the A5 Alpine Double, and the A5 Cliff Cabana. The A5 portaledges were the first portaledges that could withstand the severe weather conditions in remote areas such as the Himalayas and the Karakorum, enabling climbers to expand their horizons to the largest rock faces in the world. Middendorf himself used the A5 portaledges on some of the hardest and remote big walls of the world, including the first ascent of The Grand Voyage on the Great Trango Tower in 1992, the longest vertical big wall (1350m) in the world. The A5 Portaledge was sold worldwide and was featured in Abitare, an Italian design magazine.\n\nThe assets of A5 Adventures, including the A5 portaledge, were acquired by The North Face (TNF) in 1998. Middendorf continued to steer the product for an additional two years at TNF before moving on to other pursuits outside of the climbing industry. The A5 Portaledge designs were subsequently transferred to Black Diamond Equipment of Salt Lake City, Utah, who continue to produce the A5 designs with many added features.\nAs of 2016, there were four major commercial suppliers of portaledges, making the following popular models: \n\nIn 2017, John Middendorf introduced a new portaledge design, called the D4 Portaledge (82\" x 47\", 16.5 pounds with haulsack, fly, and flypole). Instead of block corners, which has been the de facto standard since they were first introduced, the new D4 Portaledge has rounded curved tubing corners, which offer more rigidity and are lighter than the traditional block corners. The D4 portaledge brings many more innovations, including a newly engineered hybrid diameter tube design, which provides strength and rigidity without the need for a spreader bar, a new integrated haulsack/deployment system, and a completely simple but new concept for the stormfly--a single vertical zipped opening which enables the quickest deployment while also allowing full opening between storms. The D4 also packs smaller (29” x 10”) than previous designs of portaledges.\n"}
{"id": "8418890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8418890", "title": "Reusch (company)", "text": "Reusch (company)\n\nReusch is a worldwide operating manufacturer of sports equipment for football (mainly goalkeeper gloves) and winter sports.\n\nIn 1934, Karl Reusch manufactured his first pair of gloves in the attic of his home. The first pairs were sewn by hand. In 1972, he developed the first glove for professional alpine athletes. Together with his son Gebhard, Reusch entered the industry with a collection of specially designed winter gloves. One year later in co-operation with German goalkeeper Sepp Maier, Gebhard Reusch developed the first goalkeeper glove in history. In 1989, Reusch introduced its first skiing apparel and 3 years later the first team sport collection. In the beginning of 2000, Reusch expanded their product portfolio with helmets and goggles. After 2004 Reusch focussed on developing and delivering alpine and goalkeeper gloves for amateurs and professionals.\n\nThe company's headquarter is located in Bolzano, Italy. It has distributors in approx. 60 countries.\n\nEach year the company arranges one goalkeeper collection (goalkeeper gloves, apparel, protections and accessories) and one winter collection (Racing, Ski, Freeride, Mountaineering, Board, Nordic, Multifunction gloves) for children and adults available in shops worldwide.\n\nThe first goalkeeper that had been sponsored by Reusch was Sepp Maier at the Football World Cup 1974 in Germany. Over the years Reusch supported many international top-goalkeepers such as the World Cup winners Ubaldo Fillol (ARG, 1978), Nery Pumpido (ARG, 1986), Bodo Illgner (GER, 1990), Claudio Taffarel (BRA, 1994) and Marcos Reis (BRA, 2002). With Dida from AC Milan (2002/03, 2006/07) and Júlio César from Inter Milan, Reusch goalkeepers have won three UEFA Champions League titles over the last 15 years. Amongst the top goalkeepers Samir Handanovič (Inter Milan), Ralf Fährmann (FC Schalke 04) and Diego López (Espanyol Barcelona), Reusch currently sponsors more than 220 professional goalkeepers in the first national divisions all over the world.\n\nIn the Alpine ski sector Reusch collaborates with many World Cup athletes, such as Marcel Hirscher, Lindsey Vonn, Mikaela Shiffrin, Henrik Kristoffersen, Lara Gut, Alexis Pinturault and Anna Veith. Additionally Reusch is the official supplier of seven of the world's most successful ski federations (Austria, Switzerland, France, USA, Norway, Liechtenstein, Slovenia). With Gerlinde Kaltenbrunner (AUT), one of the world's most successful extreme alpinists trusts in Reusch gloves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28466485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28466485", "title": "Royal Air Force Sports Ground", "text": "Royal Air Force Sports Ground\n\nThe Royal Air Force Sports Ground is a cricket ground in Uxbridge, situated behind RAF Uxbridge. The ground also goes by the name of Vine Lane, a nearby main road. It was first used in 1939 by the RAF. Teams such as the MCC, the Middlesex Cricket Board, the Army, Middlesex youth teams and the Combined Services have all played on the ground throughout its history. The ground has seen one first-class match, in 1964, between the Combined Services and Cambridge University.\n\n"}
{"id": "52540379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52540379", "title": "September 2016 in sports", "text": "September 2016 in sports\n"}
{"id": "35327404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35327404", "title": "Somali Olympic Committee", "text": "Somali Olympic Committee\n\nThe Somali Olympic Committee () is the National Olympic Committee representing Somalia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7696759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696759", "title": "Spain at the 1956 Winter Olympics", "text": "Spain at the 1956 Winter Olympics\n\nSpain competed at the 1956 Winter Olympics in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49260989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49260989", "title": "Sports Hall Diana", "text": "Sports Hall Diana\n\nDiana Hall () is a multifunctional Indoor arena in Yambol, Bulgaria. The arena was opened in 1964 and has a seating capacity for 3,000 people . It is the home of BC Yambol. Besides basketball the arena is used for practicing trampolining, boxing, wrestling, shooting sport. The arena hosted many national and European tournaments, such as the 2010 Bulgarian Basketball Cup, NBL all-star game 2015, Strandzha Cup, international wrestling tournament Dan Kolov.\n"}
{"id": "24362074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362074", "title": "Stadio Steno Borghese", "text": "Stadio Steno Borghese\n\nStadio Steno Borghese is a baseball stadium located in Nettuno, Italy. It was built in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54095116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54095116", "title": "Timeline of Malian football", "text": "Timeline of Malian football\n\n1930s – 1940s – 1950s – 1960s – 1970s – 1980s – 1990s – 2000s – 2010s\n\n1938\n\n\n1945\n\n\n1950 – 1951 – 1952 – 1953 – 1955 – 1956 – 1959\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1960 – 1961 – 1962 – 1963 – 1964 – 1965 – 1966 – 1967 – 1968 – 1969\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1970 – 1971 – 1972 – 1973 – 1974 – 1975 – 1976 – 1977 – 1978 – 1979\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1980 – 1981 – 1982 – 1983 – 1984 – 1985 – 1986 – 1987 – 1988 – 1989\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1990 – 1991 – 1992 – 1993 – 1994 – 1995 – 1996 – 1997 – 1998 – 1999\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n2000 – 2001 – 2002 – 2003 – 2004 – 2005 – 2006 – 2007 – 2008 – 2009\n\n\n\n\nStade Malien won their 12th regional championship title\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n2010 – 2011 – 2012 – 2013 – 2014 – 2015 – 2016 – 2017\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4081777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4081777", "title": "Timeline of association football", "text": "Timeline of association football\n\nThis page indexes the individual year in association football pages. Each year is annotated with one or more significant events as a reference point.\nThe Cambridge Rules are created in 1848. \nOfficial referees appear for the first time in a football match, at a match held in Cheltenham in 1849, two in field and one in tribune.\nSheffield F.C., the first football club in the world, is founded in 1857. That same year the Sheffield Rules are also created.\nBritish railway builders introduce football to Argentina. The Football Association is founded in 1863 (the first football association in the world), and it ratifies the original 14 rules of the game. In 1860 the first non-British team in Europe, Lausanne Football and Cricket Club of Switzerland, is formed. In 1862 Notts County F.C. is founded. In 1865 Buenos Aires FC was formed by British residents. The first ever football tournament, the Youdan Cup, is played by twelve Sheffield clubs in 1867; the Cromwell Cup, the second oldest football tournament in the world, takes place in 1868 with Sheffield Rules. Goal kicks are introduced in 1869 and Scottish club Kilmarnock F.C founded.\n\nFirst \"goalkeepers\", and passage from \"dribbling game\" to \"passing game\" is seen in club matches in Sheffield and London. The first international match arranged by the Football Association between England and Scotland on 5 March 1870 finishes in a 0–0 draw at the Kennington Oval in London. Combination Game developed by Royal Engineers AFC.\nCharles William Alcock creates the Football Association Challenge Cup, the oldest cup tournament alive.\nScotland and England draw 0–0 in the first FIFA-recognized international football match, played at the West of Scotland Cricket Club. Wanderers beat Royal Engineers in the first FA Cup final. Kick corner and ball fixture is introduced by The Football Association. The first Welsh football club, Wrexham A.F.C., is founded. Football introduced in France by English sailors, and Le Havre is founded. Rangers F.C. is founded in Scotland.\nThe Scottish Football Association is founded. The offside law is changed so that an offside position is determined when the ball is played by a teammate, rather than when it is received. The corner kick is defined. 1874 in football \nThe FA authorizes referees to send players off for certain offences, and makes a rule requiring teams to change ends at halftime. The first shin pads are introduced. Aston Villa F.C. is founded.\nThe crossbar is introduced, replacing tape as the means of marking the top of the goal. Oxford University tour Germany and a number of German universities take up the game (one of first countries to play under FA rules outside of Britain). Blackburn Rovers F.C. is founded.\nCarlton Cricket Club (Canada) form football section and subsequently tours Britain.\nThe length of a match is set at 90 minutes. Wolverhampton Wanderers were founded.\nReferees begin to use whistles. West Bromwich Albion, Manchester United (as Newton Heath L&YR F.C.) and Everton (as St. Domingo's FC.) are founded. The first football match to be staged under electric floodlighting takes place at Bramall Lane, Sheffield, between two local representative teams.\nKjøbenhavns Boldklub introduces itself as the first sports club in continental Europe. Sunderland A.F.C. is founded.\n\nIrish Football Association founded. Clubs charge for admission. Players paid lost wages and expenses (players still part-time). Manchester City are founded as St. Marks.\nQueens Park Rangers FC, Tottenham Hotspur F.C., and Burnley F.C. are founded. The first club in Uruguay formed by an English professor at Montevideo University; another club later formed by British railway engineers. Two-handed throw-in introduced.\nCoventry City FC is founded.\nPlayed for the first time the British Home Championship, the oldest tournament for national teams: the Scotland national team emerges as winner. Derby County are founded along with Leicester City who are founded as Leicester Fosse. \nThe Football Association legalises professionalism. The first non-European international was contested on 28 November 1885, at Newark, New Jersey, between the United States and Canada, the Canadians winning 1–0. Arbroath beat Bon Accord 36–0 in the Scottish Cup, a record which stands to this day.\nThe FAs of England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland form the International Football Association Board.The Football Association introduces a 'cross tape' between goalposts as a precedent to the 'crossbar'. The referee and the captain player for each team are introduced. Arsenal F.C. is founded.\nThe first football team in South America is founded, Gimnasia y Esgrima de La Plata, Argentina. British introduce football to Russia. Hamburger SV is founded. Hibernian F.C. wins the Football World Championship against Preston North End, 2–1 in Edinburgh.\nThe Football League, the world's first national football league competition, is founded in England by Aston Villa director William McGregor. Celtic F.C. is founded. Renton F.C. wins the Football World Championship against West Bromwich Albion, 4–1 in Glasgow.\nThe Royal Dutch Football Association and the Danish Football Association are founded. The Danish association is the first non-British European football association. \nThe Football Alliance is formed as a rival to The Football League. \nThe first football association not admitted to FIFA is formed: the Cornwall County Football Association.\nRosario Central, and\nMohun Bagan A.C., the oldest football club in India, is founded.\n\nThe IFA Premiership (Irish League) is formed (NIFL Premiership). \nThe Scottish Football League is formed.\nGoal nets used for the first time.\nThe penalty kick is introduced. Liverpool engineer John Alexander Brodie invents the football net \nAssistant referees are first introduced as linesmen. \nThe first Oceanian football association is formed: the New Zealand Soccer Association. \nThe first ever championship outside of Britain takes place in Argentina: AAF Championship.\nC.A. Peñarol is founded.\nThe Football League introduces a second division. Liverpool F.C. and Newcastle United F.C. are founded. The first Asian football association is formed: the Football Association of Singapore. Argentina is the first country outside of Britain to have a national championship.\nArgentine Football Association is founded, the first South American football association. Genoa Cricket and Football Club, the first Italian club football team, and F.C. Porto are founded.\nReferee in complete control of game. \nFloriana FC of Malta is founded. \nThe Federación de Fútbol de Chile, the Belgian Football Association and the Gibraltar Football Association are founded. Clube de Regatas do Flamengo is founded. Sunderland A.F.C. wins the Football World Championship against Hearts of Midlothian F.C., 5–3 in Edinburgh.\nItaly's first national championship is organised by the Italian Federation of Gymnastics. Football played at the first Summer Olympics in Athens as exhibition game. The match length is set to 90 minutes. \nThe Football League introduces automatic promotion and relegation between its two divisions. Juventus F.C. is founded as \"Sport Club Juventus\".\nThe Italian Football Federation is formed. CR Vasco da Gama, Standard Liège, Athletic Bilbao, the first club in Spain and Portsmouth FC are founded. \nFC Barcelona, Club Nacional de Football and A.C. Milan are founded. The number of a football team is defined to be 11 players.\n\nAsociación Uruguaya de Fútbol and German Football Association were founded. FC Bayern Munich, AFC Ajax, RCD Espanyol, Borussia Mönchengladbach and S.S. Lazio (as \"Società Podistica Lazio\") are founded. The first club dedicated to football still active in Brazil, Sport Club Rio Grande is founded. \nCzechoslovak Football Association and Hungarian Football Federation are founded. The first international match between South American national teams is played between Uruguay and Argentina, and ends 2–3. The match between Tottenham Hotspur F.C. and Hearts of Midlothian F.C. for the Football World Championship finishes 0–0, in London. Hibernian win Scottish Cup on 23 April. Club Atlético River Plate, C.F. Pachuca is founded. \n26 people die and over 500 are injured when a section of the terracing collapses after a Scotland-England British Home Championship match at Ibrox Park. Five Spanish clubs compete for the first \"Copa del Rey\". The first Brazilian football league, Campeonato Paulista\",\" is won by São Paulo Athletic Club. The first North American football association (geographically South American but affiliated to CONCACAF) is formed: the Guyana Football Federation. The penalty area is defined. Real Madrid, Olimpia Asunción and Fluminense Football Club are founded. Hearts of Midlothian F.C. won the Football World Championship against Tottenham Hotspur F.C., 3–1 in Edinburgh.\nThe first international match between non-British European national teams: Hungary–Bohemia 2–1. Beşiktaş J.K., Grêmio Foot-Ball Porto Alegrense, Racing Club de Avellaneda and Atlético Madrid are founded.\nFIFA is founded in Paris on 21 May. The first football association geographically in North America is formed: the Fédération Haïtienne de Football. Swedish Football Association is founded. S.L. Benfica, Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas and Argentinos Juniors are founded. Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) formed.\nThe Muratti Vase, the oldest tournament for FAs not admitted to FIFA, played for the first time, won by Guernsey. Galatasaray, Chelsea F.C., Club Atlético Boca Juniors, Estudiantes de La Plata, Club Atlético Independiente and Sport Club do Recife are founded.\nEngland joins FIFA. Sporting Clube de Portugal is founded.\nFenerbahçe S.K., Al-Ahly and Bradford Park Avenue A.F.C. are founded.\nFor the first time, officially, a football tournament is played at the Summer Olympics in London, won by Great Britain. FC Internazionale, San Lorenzo de Almagro, Clube Atlético Mineiro, Feyenoord and Panathinaikos F.C. are founded. Organized in Italy the Torneo Internazionale Stampa Sportiva, the first international football tournament for clubs, but not officially.\nR.S.C. Anderlecht, Sport Club Internacional and Borussia Dortmund are founded.The first official national football tournament was organized in 1909 by the recently founded Romanian Football Federation, then called the Association of Athletic Societies in Romania. Played for the first time in Italy the Sir Thomas Lipton Trophy, considered the first official international football tournament for clubs.\n\nClub Atlético Vélez Sársfield and Sport Club Corinthians Paulista, are founded. The Copa Centenario Revolución de Mayo 1910, played in and won by Argentina, is the first South American competition with more than two national teams, and is considered unofficially the first Copa América.\nFK Austria Vienna, El Zamalek and Anorthosis Famagusta are founded.\nGoalkeepers banned from handling the ball outside their own penalty area. Santos FC is founded.\nOpposing players forced to stand at least ten yards away from a free kick. Royal Spanish Football Federation and United States Soccer Federation are founded.\nThe oldest surviving club trophy soccer competition in the Americas, Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup, is founded in the United States as National Challenge Cup and the Brooklyn Field Club (1898–1924) are crowned champions. Glentoran from Belfast wins first ever European competition, the Vienna Cup. Brazilian Football Confederation is founded. Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras and Levski Sofia are founded.\nCONMEBOL is founded, and Uruguay wins the first Copa América, held in Argentina. Club América is founded.\nFédération Congolaise de Football-Association, the first African football association, French Football Federation and Polish Football Association are founded. Leeds United, Liga Deportiva Alajuelense, Valencia CF, Dacia Unirea Braila, Espérance Sportive de Tunis are founded.\n\nFor the first time an African national team plays an international match, which is also the first intercontinental national team match between Italy and Egypt, which ends 2–1, at the Summer Olympics in Belgium.\nEgyptian Football Association is founded. Cruzeiro Esporte Clube is founded. The IFA Premiership (Irish League) is now the national league of Northern Ireland, following partition.\nBolton Wanderers defeat West Ham United in the first English FA Cup final played at Wembley Stadium, remembered as the White Horse Final. Rapid București is founded.\nPlayers allowed to score directly from a corner kick. For the first time a South American national team and a European national team play each other: Uruguay-Yugoslavia 7–0, at the Summer Olympics in France. Uruguay wins the Gold Medal. For the first time an Oceanian national team plays an international match: Australia-Canada 3–2. Chinese Football Association is founded. Following their Italian league victory in 1923–24, Genoa C.F.C. becomes the first team ever to add a \"scudetto\" patch to their shirt.\nThe offside rule is changed: a player is now onside if a minimum of two (instead of three) opposing players are between him and the goal line. Étoile Sportive du Sahel, Colo-Colo and Olympiacos F.C. are founded.\nHuddersfield Town become the first team to win the Football League in three consecutive seasons. ACF Fiorentina and APOEL FC are founded.\nAC Sparta Prague wins the inaugural Mitropa Cup, the first international major European cup for clubs, the predecessor to the Champions League. Federación Mexicana de Fútbol Asociación is founded. FC Dynamo Kyiv and Cruz Azul are founded. First League match broadcast on radio.\nLa Liga is formed. Uruguay wins the Gold Medal for the second time in a row.\nLega Calcio Serie A is formed. Goalkeepers have to stand still on their lines for penalty kicks.\n\nThirteen teams enter the first World Cup, held in Uruguay. The hosts beat Argentina 4–2 in the final. Contested between the top national teams of continental Europe, Dr. Gerö Cup' first edition is won by Italy. São Paulo and LDU Quito are founded.\nFootball is excluded from the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles due to the low popularity of the sport in the United States at the time. Bologna becomes the first Italian club to win a major international competition following their Mitropa Cup conquest. \nHosts Italy become the second World Cup winners and the first European team to do so, beating Czechoslovakia 2–1 in the final. For the first time a qualification stage occurs and an Asian national team plays an international match: Egypt-Palestine 7–1. Egypt becomes the first African team to compete.\nDeportivo Saprissa is founded.<br>Juventus becomes the first team in Italian football history to win 5 national titles in a row.\nItaly wins gold at the Olympics in Berlin and joins Uruguay to become Olympic and World champion.\nThe largest football crowd was recorded, 149,415 people turned up at Hampden Park, Glasgow, to see Scotland play England\nIn the 1938 World Cup held in France, Italy beats Hungary 4–2 in the final and becomes the first team to successfully defend the title and the first to win on foreign soil. Vittorio Pozzo becomes the first coach and only at present to guide his team to two World Cup victories. Polish Ernest Willimowski becomes the first player to score four goals in a World Cup game during Poland's 6–5 loss against Brazil. Following the Anschluss with Germany, Austria withdraws and some Austrian players joins the German squad. Argentina and Uruguay boycott the tournament as it is held in Europe for the second successive time. First live TV transmission of FA Cup Final.\nShirt numbering is made compulsory.\n\nCCCF Championship Is organized for the first time by CCCF, won and hosted by Costa Rica.\nRed Star Belgrade is founded.\nThe Burnden Park Disaster kills 33 Bolton Wanderers fans. The PFC is formed. JS Kabylie is founded.\nNAFC Championship is organized for the first time by North American Football Confederation in Cuba, and won by Mexico. Atlético Nacional and FC Steaua București are founded.\nCSKA Sofia and Dinamo Bucureşti are founded.\nFC Barcelona win the inaugural Latin Cup, one of the forerunners of the European Cup. The Superga air disaster kills 31 people, including 18 Grande Torino players, the backbone of the Italian national team. Raja Casablanca is founded.\n\nUruguay win the 1950 FIFA World Cup held in Brazil, when they beat the hosts 2–1 in the final group match of the tournament, also known as the \"Maracanazo\", the highest attendance at any sporting match at 200,000. Earlier in the same tournament, one of the biggest upsets in football history occurs, when the United States shock England 1–0.\nUse of white ball permitted. Copa Rio, the first world tournament for clubs, is played for the first time in Brazil, and won by Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras.\nHungary's revolutionary tactics help the Golden Team to win the football at the 1952 Summer Olympics. The Panamerican Championship is played for the first time in Chile, won by Brazil.\nEngland lose a home match for the first time, 6–3 to Hungary.\nUEFA is founded in Basel, Switzerland, Asian Football Confederation is formed. West Germany win the 1954 FIFA World Cup held in Switzerland (it was the first World Cup with a sponsor), coming back from 0–2 to win the final game 3–2 against Hungary, a match known as \"The Miracle of Bern.\" Club Universidad Nacional is founded.\nFirst European Cup starts. The Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, considered the precursor of the UEFA Cup, is played for the first time and won by Barcelona.\nReal Madrid beat Stade de Reims-Champagne 4–3 in the first European Cup final. First RAI TV's transmission of football match Serie A happens in Italy in a match between Fiorentina and Napoli. The first Asian Cup is played in Hong Kong, won by Korea Republic. Saudi Arabia Football Federation is founded. Floodlighting used for first time at League match (Portsmouth). The Ballon d'Or is assigned for the first time to Stanley Matthews.\nCAF is founded; only three teams enter the first African Cup of Nations in Sudan, won by Egypt. Al-Hilal is founded.\nPelé and Garrincha star as Brazil win their first World Cup in Sweden, beating the hosts 5–2 in the final. 23 people, including eight Manchester United players, are killed in the Munich air disaster. Just Fontaine becomes the first and to this day only player to score 13 goals in a single World Cup. Juventus becomes the first team in history to adopt a golden star above their crest to represent their tenth Serie A title, a national record then. \nThe first season of the Brazilian National Championship takes place and is won by Esporte Clube Bahia. Once Caldas is founded.\n\nThe first European Championship is played in France, won by USSR. The Copa Libertadores is played for the first time and won by C.A. Peñarol, and the Intercontinental Cup is played for the first time, won by Real Madrid. First European Cup Winners' Cup.\nCONCACAF is founded with the fusion of CCCF and NAFC. Benfica become the second team to win the European Cup, beating FC Barcelona 3–2 in the final. ACF Fiorentina wins the first edition of UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, and becomes the first Italian team to win an UEFA competition. Football Federation Australia is founded.\nBrazil retain the 1962 World Cup, beating Czechoslovakia 3–1 in the final. The CONCACAF Champions League is organized for the first time, and won by Club Deportivo Guadalajara. FIFA reaches 100 members.\nThe West German national league Bundesliga is formed. Lev Yashin becomes the first goalkeeper to win European Footballer of the Year. The first CONCACAF Championship is played in El Salvador, won by Costa Rica. Tottenham Hotspur become the first British club to win a European football competition, European Cup Winner's Cup beating Atletico Madrid 5–1 in the final.\nInternazionale wins the European Cup for the first time joining city rivals AC Milan as European champions. Milano becomes the first city and only at present to have won the Champions League with two different clubs. CAF Champions League organized for the first time and won by Oryx Douala.\nFC Twente is founded.\nEngland win the 1966 World Cup as hosts, beating West Germany 4–2 in the final as Geoff Hurst becomes the first player to score a hat-trick in the final. The OFC is founded.\nCeltic become the first British club to win the European Cup, beating Internazionale 2–1 in the final. Flórián Albert became the first Hungarian player who win the European Golden Boot. The AFC Champions League is played for the first time, won by Hapoel Tel Aviv F.C..\nManchester United win the European Cup ten years after the Munich air disaster killed eight of their players. Eusébio wins the inaugural Golden Boot award as the continent's top club scorer.\n2000 die when El Salvador and Honduras declare war on each other following a World Cup qualifying match.\n\nBrazil becomes the first national side to win a third World Cup in Mexico, the first ever held outside Europe and South America, beating Italy 4–1 in the final as their captain Pelé becomes the first player to win three World Cup medals. Earlier in the tournament, The Game of the Century occurs, Italy beats Germany 4–3 in the semifinal after five goals scored in extra time. Yellow and red cards for sendings off and admonitions appear.\n66 die in the second Ibrox disaster. First UEFA Cup. The Inter-Cities Fairs Cup is abolished. The first women international match is played: France 4 Netherlands 0.\nTottenham Hotspur wins the first UEFA Cup. AFC Ajax wins the first edition of the UEFA Super Cup.\nAjax win the European Cup for the third consecutive season. The first OFC Nations Cup is organized and won by New Zealand.\nHosts West Germany win the 1974 World Cup, beating the Netherlands 2–1 in the final.\nThe AFC Women's Asian Cup is organized for the first time in Hong Kong, won by New Zealand.\nBayern Munich win the European Cup for the third consecutive season. Iran national team win its third consecutive Asian Cup, a record.\nJuventus become the first Italian and South European club to win the UEFA Cup. The first FIFA U-20 World Cup is organized in Tunisia, and won by USSR.\nHosts Argentina win the 1978 World Cup, beating the Netherlands 3–1 in the final; Johann Cruyff refuses to play in the tournament.\nNottingham Forest lift their first European Cup in Munich, defeating Malmö 1–0 in the final.\n\nWest Germany defeats Belgium 2–1 in the final at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome to take the European Football Championship.\nThe Football League begins awarding three points for a win instead of two. In Uruguay, to celebrate the 50 years of the World Cup, the 1980 Mundialito is organized, won by the hosts.\nAberdeen beat Real Madrid to win their first European Trophy, the European Cup Winners' Cup soon followed by defeating Hamburg to win the European Super Cup. The OFC Women's Championship is played for the first time in New Caledonia, won by New Zealand.\nMichel Platini leads Juventus to the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, beating F.C. Porto in the final and the hosts France to the European Football Championship, beating Spain in the final. France also wins the gold medal in the 1984 Olympic Games, beating Brazil in the final at the Rose Bowl. The UEFA Women's Championship is organized for the first time, won by Sweden.\nThe Heysel Stadium disaster takes place in Brussels at the European Cup final between Liverpool and Juventus, leading to English clubs being banned from European club competition for five years. Juventus becomes the first club in the history of European football to have won all three major UEFA competitions after defeating Liverpool 1–0 in the European Cup final, and thus far, the only in association football history, to have won all possible after defeating Argentinos Juniors 6–4 (2–2 a.e.t.) in the Intercontinental Cup final at Tokyo's National Stadium. The Bradford City stadium fire occurs at Valley Parade, taking the lives of 56 people and injuring another 200 during Bradford City's fixture with Lincoln City. For the first time, an African squad wins a FIFA tournament, the World Championship Under 16, as Nigeria surprisingly defeat favourites West Germany 2–0 in China. The Artemio Franchi Trophy is organized for the first time, won and hosted by France. Michel Platini wins for the third consecutive time the Ballon d'Or, a record then.\nThe 1986 World Cup finals are played for the second time in Mexico, with Argentina defeating West Germany 3–2 for their second title at the Azteca Stadium in Mexico City; the tournament sees the dominance of Argentinian player Diego Maradona, scoring the infamous Hand of God goal, before his \"Goal of the Century\" solo dribble second goal, both in the quarterfinal against England. Alex Ferguson, the most decorated manager in English Football history, is appointed to be manager of Manchester United.\nF.C. Porto wins the European Cup for the first time after defeating Bayern Munich 2–1 in the final. In the second World Championship FIFA Under 16, the Soviet Union defeats Nigeria on penalties. The OFC Champions League is played for the first time and won by Adelaide City.\nThe Netherlands, led by captain Ruud Gullit and top goal scorer Marco van Basten, defeat the Soviet Union 2–0 to win the Euro 1988 championship. Competing in Serie B, Atalanta reaches the Cup Winners' Cup semifinal, the best ever performance by a non-first division club in a major UEFA competition to this day. Start of the FIFA Fair Play campaign.\nThe Hillsborough disaster occurs in Sheffield, England, before the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest, resulting in the loss of 96 lives. A football tournament is played for the first time at the Island Games, by FAs not admitted to FIFA, hosted and won by Faroe Islands. Saudi Arabia win the FIFA U-17 World Cup, the first time an Asian team wins a FIFA World Cup.\n\nFor the first time three clubs from the same country, Italy's Juventus, Sampdoria and A.C. Milan wins all four UEFA club competitions in the same season, a feat no more possible since the Cup Winner's Cup no longer exists. West Germany wins the 1990 FIFA World Cup in Rome, Italy, defeating defending champion Argentina 1–0 in the final. In their first appearance in the tournament, Republic of Ireland reaches the quarter-finals without winning a single game, the furthest a team has ever advanced without winning. \"Waterloo Day\" for Austrian football in Euro 92 qualifying at Landskrona, Sweden, where the Faroe Islands defeat Austria 1–0 in the former's first ever international match.\nIn the inaugural Women's World Cup held in China, the USA win 2–1 over Norway (for the first time a Northern American team win a World Cup). After being banned for six years, English clubs are again allowed to participate in competitions sponsored by UEFA. Diego Maradona is banned for 15 months in Italy's Serie A after testing positive for cocaine in a drug test. The CAF Women's Championship is played for the first time won by Nigeria. The CONCACAF Women's Gold Cup is played for the first time in Haiti, won by USA. The Sudamericano Femenino, CONMEBOL's main women's tournament, is played for the first time, hosted and won by Brazil. The FIFA World Player of the Year is assigned for the first time.\nThe back-pass rule is applied, whereby a goalkeeper is no longer permitted to pick up or catch a ball played directly by a fellow team member's foot. In the final of Euro 92, Denmark surprisingly win 2–0 over Germany. Stadium Furiani disaster takes place in Bastia, Corsica. FA Premier League created as the top flight in English Football. The first FIFA Confederations Cup is organized in Saudi Arabia, and won by Argentina. Capello's Milan wins Serie A unbeaten.\nOlympique de Marseille becomes the first French club to win the European Cup, newly renamed as the UEFA Champions League, defeating AC Milan 1–0 at the Olympiastadion in Munich. Marseille also win Ligue 1, but are stripped of the title due to a corruption scandal. 18 members of the Zambia national team die in a plane crash. Manchester United win the first FA Premier League title. Brian Clough retires from his coaching role in Nottingham Forest after 18 years as coach.\nThe 1994 World Cup held in the United States was the first to be decided on penalties, with Brazil edging out Italy in the final at the Rose Bowl to claim their fourth title. Russia's Oleg Salenko becomes the first player and only to this day to score five goals in a single World Cup game in his country's 6–1 win over Cameroon. In the same match, 42-year-old Roger Milla of Cameroon, becomes the oldest player ever to score in a World Cup match.\nThe second FIFA Confederations Cup is organized in Saudi Arabia, and won by Denmark. The Bosman ruling allows all footballers playing in the European Union and not under contract to freely change clubs, and also abolishes foreign player quotas with respect to EU nationals. win the second FIFA Women's World Cup. Suwon Samsung Bluewings is founded.\nBayern Munich becomes the third club in the history of European football to have won all three major UEFA competitions after winning the UEFA Cup. In the Euro 96 final, Germany defeat the Czech Republic 2–1 with a golden goal from Oliver Bierhoff; Nigeria become the first African team to win the Olympic Tournament. A football women's tournament is played for the first time at the Summer Olympics in Atlanta, won by the United States.\nHelenio Herrera, legendary trainer of Inter in the 1960s, dies.\nIn the 1998 FIFA World Cup final, France win 3–0 over Brazil at Stade de France to claim their first World Cup. Palestinian Football Federation is admitted to FIFA. The first openly gay footballer, Justin Fashanu commits suicide.\nThe USA, the hosting nation, defeat China in a penalty shootout to win the Women's World Cup in front of the largest crowd ever to witness a women's sporting event. Organized in Italy by UEFA the first continental tournament for regions: the UEFA Regions' Cup, won by Veneto. Mexico win the Confederations Cup: for the first time a male national team form Northern America win a FIFA tournament. The UEFA Cup Winners' Cup is abolished.\n\nFrance wins their second European Championship title after beating Italy 2–1, with a golden goal in extra time. First FIFA Club World Cup, won by Sport Club Corinthians Paulista. FIFA Player of the Century, a one-off award created by FIFA to decide the greatest football player of the 20th century, is awarded to Pelé and Diego Maradona, shared: both men are officially considered winners of the award.\nReal Madrid sign playmaker Zinedine Zidane of Juventus in a world record transfer fee of 72 million euros. Colombia wins the 40th edition of Copa América, as hosts. Australia beats American Samoa 31–0 in 2002 World Cup qualification, the world record in an international match.\nBrazil sets up a record fifth title in World Cup competition, the first ever to be played in Asia (also the first outside Europe and the Americas), defeating Germany 2–0 in the 2002 FIFA World Cup final. The first FIFA U-19 Women's World Championship is held in Canada, with the USA defeating the hosts in the final 1–0 on a golden goal in extra time.\nFounded the NF-Board, the first international organization for FAs not admitted to FIFA. Paolo Maldini makes history by captaining AC Milan to a champions league victory, a feat his father Cesare did with the same club exactly 40 years before. Latvia is the first football team from the Baltic states to make an appearance in a major football competition, UEFA Euro 2004.\nGreece produce one of the shocks in football history and become surprise winners of the Euro 2004 football tournament, defeating hosts Portugal 1–0 in the final. Waitakere United is founded. Arsenal wins the 2003-04 FA Premier League unbeaten, the second time an English club goes undefeated for an entire season.\nThe Champions League final in Istanbul sees Liverpool come back from a 0–3 half-time score to defeat A.C. Milan 3–2 in a penalty shootout, following a 3–3 draw. Also, a match-fixing scandal rocks German football, though it does not directly affect the Bundesliga. The Australian A-League is launched in replacement of the NSL to improve the quality of the game in the country.\nThe 2006 World Cup is held in Germany and won by Italy on a penalty kick shootout over France, and Zinedine Zidane plays his last professional game in the final captaining France only to be sent off in extra time. A major match-fixing scandal erupts in Italy, with five Serie A teams implicated. Egypt record victory for the fifth time in the African Cup of Nations.\nBrazil wins the 42nd edition of Copa América, held in Venezuela. Iraq produce one of international football's greatest fairytale victories as the fractured, war-torn nation were crowned champions of the 2007 AFC Asian Cup. FIFA Women's World Cup is held in China and won by Germany. On 9 November Étoile Sportive du Sahel became the first African squad to have won all official club competitions recognized by CAF, after defeating Al-Ahly 3–1 in the CAF Champions League final in Susa.\nSpain win their second European Championship title after beating Germany 1–0. Italy and A.C. Milan becomes the first national and club side to wear on their jerseys the FIFA badge of World champions. CONCACAF Champions Cup is replaced by the CONCACAF Champions League, modelled after the UEFA Champions League expand his participant teams from 8 to 24. The FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup is played for the first time in New Zealand, won by Korea DPR. The Women's Viva World Cup, the first World Cup for women's national teams not affiliated to FIFA, is played for the first time, hosted and won by Sapmi. \nThe FIFA Confederations Cup is won by Brazil and is held in South Africa (for the first time a FIFA tournament for senior national teams is held in Africa). Spain achieves two world records: most consecutive wins (15) and most matches without a loss (35, with Brazil). Barcelona achieves a sextuple: La Liga, Copa del Rey, Supercopa de España, UEFA Champions League, UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5686932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5686932", "title": "Two-level defense", "text": "Two-level defense\n\nIn American football, a two-level defense is a defensive formation with only two layers of defense instead of the customary three layers.\n\nIn a usual three-level defense, there are three layers: the forcing unit (consisting mainly of linemen but possibly also including shooting linebackers and defensive backs), the underneath coverage (usually consisting of linebackers but possibly including other players, especially in the case of a zone blitz), and the contain unit (mostly defensive backs). A two-level defense does away with the contain unit in favor of increased pressure on the offense. Two-level defenses will often use one deep safety (as deep as 28 yards at the snap) to enforce an end line on the offense, but the Bear 4-6 is a two level defense with contain handled solely by the single coverage skills of the cornerbacks. The \"Bear\" can also function as a three-level defense, and indeed concealment of the defensive structure is a key to making this defense work.\n\nThe two-level was invented to combat the run and shoot offense in the 1980s, but has stayed in use due to its adaptability in combating all types of offenses. The defense of spread formations remains a strong suit of this model.\n"}
{"id": "35199239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35199239", "title": "Venloop", "text": "Venloop\n\nVenloop is an annual half marathon in the Dutch municipality of Venlo, which was established in 2006. During the event, a 10K run is also held, as well as a 5K run, a 1K run, a 0.5K run and a run for disabled and less abled men and women. In 2012 and 2013 this event had the official status for the Dutch Championship Half Marathon.\n\nThe course records are 59:44 for men, set by Kenya's Geoffrey Yegon in 2016, and 1:10:02 for women, achieved by Isabellah Andersson of Sweden in 2010.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28790980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28790980", "title": "Vista Road Recreation Ground", "text": "Vista Road Recreation Ground\n\nVista Road Recreation Ground is a cricket ground in Clacton-on-Sea, Essex. The first recorded first-class cricket match on the ground was in 1931 when Essex County Cricket Club played there against Lancashire. Essex played a total of 60 first-class matches on the ground between 1931 and 1966, playing their final first-class match there against Leicestershire in the 1966 County Championship.\n\nThe ground has also held five Second XI fixtures between 1948 and 1952 for the Essex Second XI in the Minor Counties Championship.\n\nIn local cricket, the ground is the home venue of Clacton Cricket Club.\n\n"}
