{"id": "9711107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711107", "title": "13th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "13th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 13th World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Clevention, was held on September 2–5, 1955, at the Manger Hotel in Cleveland, Ohio, United States.\n\nThe chairmen were Nick and Noreen Falasca. The guests of honor were Isaac Asimov (pro) and Sam Moskowitz (mystery GoH). Total attendance was approximately 380.\n\nThis was the first convention at which the Hugo Awards were established as an annual feature; the first awards had been given out two years before, at Philcon II in 1953.\n\nThe 11th Worldcon was the first one in which Hugo Awards were awarded. The 12th convention did not continue the tradition, but since the 13th convention, Hugo Awards have been a permanent fixture of Worldcons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9611107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9611107", "title": "1936 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1936 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1936 Monaco Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Circuit de Monaco on 13 April 1936.\n\nHeavy rain contributed to a series of accidents, while a broken oil line on the Alfa Romeo of Mario Tadini led to so many wrecks in the chicane out of the tunnel it was almost impassable. The Mercedes-Benzes of Louis Chiron, Luigi Fagioli, and Manfred von Brauchitsch, as well as Bernd Rosemeyer's \"Typ C\" of newcomer Auto Union, were all eliminated. Tazio Nuvolari in the Alfa Romeo 8C benefitted from the chaos, only to suffer brake fade, and Rudolf Caracciola, proving the truth of his nickname, \"Regenmeister\" (Rainmaster), went on to win for Mercedes. He was followed by Achille Varzi and Hans Stuck, both for Auto Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "18006261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006261", "title": "1984 Stafford by-election", "text": "1984 Stafford by-election\n\nThe Stafford by-election, 1984 was a parliamentary by-election held on 3 May 1984 for the British House of Commons constituency of Stafford.\n\nThe seat fell vacant when the constituency's Conservative Member of Parliament (MP), Major Sir Hugh Charles Patrick Joseph Fraser MBE (23 January 1918 – 6 March 1984) died.\n\nFraser was educated at Ampleforth College, Balliol College, Oxford, where he was President of the Oxford Union, and at the Sorbonne. He was commissioned into the Lovat Scouts in 1936 and during World War II saw service in North Africa and Europe; he retired in the 1950s with the rank of Major.\n\nFraser was elected Member of Parliament for Stone in 1945, later Stafford and Stone following constituency boundary changes, from 1950 until 1983, and then Stafford until his death.\n\nFour candidates were nominated. The list below is set out in descending order of the number of votes received at the by-election.\n\n1. The Conservative candidate was William Nigel Paul Cash (born on 10 May 1940), a solicitor.\n\nHe has served continuously in the House of Commons since winning the by-election (as of July 2017). Cash represented Stafford, until boundary changes took effect in 1997. Since then he has been returned as MP for Stone.\n\n2. The Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, representing the SDP-Liberal Alliance, was David Joseph Dunn. He was a senior lecturer in International Relations, at the time of the by-election. He was born in 1946 and had contested the seat in the 1983 general election.\n\n3. Michael John David Poulter was the Labour candidate. He worked as a senior probation officer and was born in 1942. He contested Stafford and Stone in 1979 and this constituency in 1983.\n\n4. Christopher David Teasdale was an Independent, using the ballot paper label \"Soon to be unemployed\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3455115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3455115", "title": "2007 Summer Universiade", "text": "2007 Summer Universiade\n\nThe 2007 Summer Universiade, also known as the XXIV Summer Universiade, took place in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32595132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32595132", "title": "2009 World Wheelchair Curling Championship – Qualification Event", "text": "2009 World Wheelchair Curling Championship – Qualification Event\n\nThe qualification event for the 2009 World Wheelchair Curling Championship took place from November 15 to 20, 2008 in Prague, Czech Republic. The event's two top finishers, Germany and China, both qualified to participate in the 2009 World Wheelchair Curling Championship.\n\nThe two qualification spots are determined as follows: After the conclusion of the round robin, the top four teams advance to the playoffs. The playoffs follow the first and second rounds of the page playoff system. In the first round, he first seed playing the second and the third seed playing the fourth. In the final round, the loser of 1 v. 2 plays the winner of 3 vs. 4 in the Second Place Game, like in the semifinal of the page playoff system. However, unlike the page playoff system, the winner of 1 vs. 2 and the loser of 3 vs. 4 do not play. The winner of 1 vs. 2 qualifies to the worlds, while the winner of the second place game also qualifies to the worlds.\n\n\"Saturday, November 15, 9:00\"\n\n\"Saturday, November 15, 13:30\"\n\n\"Sunday, November 16, 9:00\"\n\n\"Sunday, November 16, 13:30\"\n\n\"Sunday, November 16, 18:00\"\n\n\"Monday, November 17, 9:00\"\n\n\"Monday, November 17, 13:30\"\n\n\"Monday, November 17, 18:00\"\n\n\"Tuesday, November 18, 9:00\"\n\n\"Tuesday, November 18, 13:30\"\n\n\"Tuesday, November 18, 18:00\"\n\n\"Wednesday, November 19, 9:00\"\n\n\"Wednesday, November 19, 13:30\"\n\n\"Thursday, November 20, 11:30\"\n\n\"Thursday, November 20, 11:30\"\n\n\"Thursday, November 20, 15:30\"\nLoser of 1 vs. 2 plays against Winner of 3 vs. 4 for the second qualification spot.\n"}
{"id": "51197242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51197242", "title": "2018 Under-19 Cricket World Cup qualification", "text": "2018 Under-19 Cricket World Cup qualification\n\nThe 2018 Under-19 Cricket World Cup in New Zealand will be contested by sixteen teams, eleven of which qualified automatically. The other five places in the tournament will be determined by a series of regional qualifiers, with one place being granted to each International Cricket Council (ICC) development region (Africa, the Americas, Asia, East Asia-Pacific, and Europe). \n\nThe ten full members of the ICC as at 2016 qualified automatically for the Under-19 World Cup. In early 2016, it was determined that the top-placed ICC associate member at the 2016 Under-19 World Cup in Bangladesh would also qualify automatically for the 2018 event. That team was Namibia, which defeated another associate member, Nepal, in the seventh-place play-off.\n\nThe Africa Division Two tournament was played in Benoni, Gauteng, South Africa, from 10–18 September 2016. Ghana (the winner) and Botswana (the runner-up) both qualified for Division One.\n\nThe Africa Division One tournament was played in Nairobi, Kenya, from 1–10 July 2017. Kenya won the tournament on net run rate from Uganda to qualify for their first World Cup since 2002; four African teams will play in the World Cup for the first time since 2006.\n\nICC U19 World Cup Qualifier Americas Region was played in Toronto, Canada from July 17 to July 23, 2017. Teams were Bermuda, Canada, and USA, and format was a double round robin. Canada qualified for the 2019 ICC U19 World Cup in New Zealand on Net Run Rate.\n\nThe Asia Division Two tournament was played in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, from 26 September to 6 October 2016, and featured ten teams. Malaysia defeated Singapore in the final, with both teams qualifying for Division One.\n\nPoints Table\n\nGroup A\n\nGroup B\n\nThe Asia Division One tournament was played in Singapore from July 2017 to july2017.\n\nAfghanistan and Nepal, teams who played on last Under 19 World Cup will be joined by two finalist of 2016 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup Asia Qualifier Division Two, Singapore and Malaysia.Afghanistan win this tournament by win of 6 out of 6game while Nepal win 4 matches out of 6 matches .And Afghanistan was qualified for 2018 u-19 cricket world cup held in New Zealand .\n\nThe East Asia-Pacific regional qualifier will be held in Apia, Samoa, from 8–16 August 2017. Four teams will participate in a double round-robin: Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, and Vanuatu.\n\nThe Europe Division Two tournament was played in the Netherlands from 23–30 July 2016. It was won by Denmark.\n\nThe Europe Division One tournament will be played in Jersey from 23 July to 1 August 2017. The four participating teams were Denmark, Ireland, Jersey, and Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "9711144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711144", "title": "42nd World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "42nd World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 42nd World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as L.A.con II, was held August 30–September 3, 1984, at the Anaheim Hilton and the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California, United States. \n\nThe chairmen were Craig Miller and Milt Stevens. The Guests of Honor were Gordon R. Dickson (pro) and Dick Eney (fan). \nRobert Bloch was the Toastmaster for the Hugo Ceremony, and Jerry Pournelle was the Master of Ceremonies for the Other Awards Ceremony. Total attendance was 8,365, a record and the largest to date.\n\n\n\nAt the convention Robert Heinlein appeared, continuing his campaign to encourage science fiction fans to make blood donations.\n\nA.E. Van Vogt appeared at the convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45670442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45670442", "title": "Action Party (Italy, 1848)", "text": "Action Party (Italy, 1848)\n\nThe Action Party () was an Italian pre-unitary political party active during the Risorgimento. It was the first organized party in the history of Italy.\n\nAfter the failure of the Italian revolutions of 1848, Giuseppe Mazzini's Young Italy was dissolved as a political organization to form the Italian National Association (), which was still led by Mazzini.\n\nDuring the 1848–1849, the Italian National Association competed against the rival Moderate Party led by Vincenzo Gioberti and Massimo d'Azeglio that won the election in the Kingdom of Sardinia and established a new government. After some years of weak activities, the Italian National Association was renamed in 1853 by Mazzini to the Action Party, which published the booklet-manifesto \"To the Italians\" (\"Agli Italiani\") and invited Italians to start various rebel and republican organizations. This tactic was changed after the failed invasion of Sapri of the same year, where Carlo Pisacane died.\n\nIn 1860, the Action Party financed the creation of a paramilitary group led by Giuseppe Garibaldi named the Redshirts (\"Camicie rosse\"). The Redshirts become particularly famous for the Expedition of the Thousand, when Garibaldi conquered in a few months all of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies and the Papal States. In this period, the Action Party was strongly opposed to the Moderate Party and its new leader Camillo Benso di Cavour, who was close to the House of Savoy. Mazzini particularly hated the annexation war, the falsification of the referendums and the Piedmontization of Italy that ignored the various diversities of a unified Italy. The Action Party founded the first mutual aid societies, workers' associations, public schools and cooperatives. In the 1861, Mazzini founded the newspaper of the Action Party, \"L'Unità italiana\". In 1867, the Action Party attempted to conclude the Unification War and take over Rome with the Battle of Mentana, which failed. Disappointed, Mazzini dissolved the Action Party and retired from the politics. In 1870, Garibaldi captured Rome, which became the capital of the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nIn 1877, Agostino Bertani, a former member of the Action Party, left the Historical Left to form the Historical Far-Left, reputed to be the real heir of the Action Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019", "title": "August 6", "text": "August 6\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7882413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7882413", "title": "Aurore (2005 film)", "text": "Aurore (2005 film)\n\nAurore is a 2005 Quebec biographical drama movie that was directed by Luc Dionne and produced by Denise Robert and Daniel Louis. The movie is a remake of Jean-Yves Bigras's 1952 movie \"La petite Aurore: l'enfant martyre (Little Aurore: The Child Martyr)\".\n\nAurore Gagnon, born in 1909 to Marie-Anne Caron and Telesphore Gagnon, is the second child of the couple. During the first nine years of her life, Aurore enjoys a happy life.\n\nThen, during the fall of 1917, Aurore's mother develops tuberculosis. She is brought to hospital for several months and doctors conclude she will never recover. Plans are made to give custody of Aurore and her sister Marie-Jeanne to Telesphore and his late wife's cousin, Marie-Anne Houde (often simply referred to as Telesphore's cousin in the movie), with whom he had fallen in love. During a visit to Marie-Anne Houde before she goes into hospital, Aurore's mother finds one of Marie-Anne's children locked inside a wooden structure. This alerts her that Marie-Anne might not treat her children well. At the same time, Aurore sees her father kissing Marie-Anne; the girl criticizes her father for not caring enough about his ill wife.\n\nAurore's mother dies in 1918, and Telesphore and Marie-Anne marry immediately after the funeral. This is the start of an unhappier, more difficult life for Aurore, as her stepmother and father begin at once to mistreat her. When two of Marie-Anne's children die, some villagers blame Houde for their deaths.\n\nThe situation soon becomes worse for Aurore. During Father Leduc's visit to her school, he asks her a question about religion and she tells him to lower his voice. Immediately, Telesphore and Marie-Anne are notified and the mistreatment becomes more and more brutal. Marie-Anne carries out most of the abuse by slapping Aurore, striking her feet with a 2x4 with nails, and burning her with a burning steel hook. Her father also abuses her by slapping her and striking her with an axe handle. She is also locked in an isolated room with little food. After the attack with the nails, Oreus, the peace judge of the town, forces her parents to send Aurore to hospital and suspects that she has been beaten. When Exilda Lemay (played by Francine Ruel), discovers Aurore with severe wounds all over her body, she immediately alerts Oreus about the situation. Oreus goes to Quebec to discuss the issue with a crown attorney.\n\nWhen the peace judge and several others, including doctors, arrive at Aurore's home, it is too late: she collapsed on the stairs and was attacked again by Marie-Anne with a 2x4. Doctors are unable to save Aurore, who passes away from blood poisoning.\n\nAfter Aurore's funeral, the couple is arrested for Aurore's death. Telesphore is sentenced to life in prison for manslaughter. His cousin and wife Marie-Anne is initially sentenced to death by hanging for second degree murder. She is then given a life sentence, but health issues force her to leave the jail, and she later dies from breast and brain cancer. Father Leduc, whom Oreus blames for his lack of action on the case, kills himself with explosives.\n\n\n\nThe movie was nominated for seven awards, including five Genie Awards and two Jutra Awards, including Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Actress for Hélène Bourgeois-Leclerc.\n\n"}
{"id": "488743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488743", "title": "Carbon monoxide poisoning", "text": "Carbon monoxide poisoning\n\nCarbon monoxide poisoning typically occurs from breathing in carbon monoxide (CO) at excessive levels. Symptoms are often described as \"flu-like\" and commonly include headache, dizziness, weakness, vomiting, chest pain, and confusion. Large exposures can result in loss of consciousness, arrhythmias, seizures, or death. The classically described \"cherry red skin\" rarely occurs. Long term complications may include feeling tired, trouble with memory, and movement problems. In those exposed to smoke, cyanide toxicity should also be considered.\nCarbon monoxide poisoning can occur accidentally or as an attempt to end one's life. CO is a colorless and odorless gas which is initially non-irritating. It is produced during incomplete burning of organic matter. This can occur from motor vehicles, heaters, or cooking equipment that run on carbon-based fuels. It can also occur from exposure to methylene chloride. Carbon monoxide primarily causes adverse effects by combining with hemoglobin to form carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) preventing the blood from carrying oxygen. Additionally, myoglobin and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase are affected. Diagnosis is based on a HbCO level of more than 3% among nonsmokers and more than 10% among smokers.\nEfforts to prevent poisoning include carbon monoxide detectors, proper venting of gas appliances, keeping chimneys clean, and keeping exhaust systems of vehicles in good repair. Treatment of poisoning generally consists of giving 100% oxygen along with supportive care. This should generally be carried out until symptoms are no longer present and the HbCO level is less than 10%. While hyperbaric oxygen therapy is used for severe poisonings, the benefit over standard oxygen delivery is unclear. The risk of death among those affected is between 1 and 30%.\nCarbon monoxide poisoning is relatively common, resulting in more than 20,000 emergency department visits a year in the United States. It is the most common type of fatal poisoning in many countries. In the United States non-fire related cases results in more than 400 deaths a year. Poisonings occur more often in the winter, particularly from the use of portable generators during power outages. The toxic effects of CO have been known since ancient history. The realization that hemoglobin was affected by CO was determined in 1857.\n\nCarbon monoxide is not toxic to all forms of life. Its harmful effects are due to binding with hemoglobin so its danger to organisms that do not use this compound is doubtful. It thus has no effect on photosynthesising plants. It is easily absorbed through the lungs. Inhaling the gas can lead to hypoxic injury, nervous system damage, and even death. Different people and populations may have different carbon monoxide tolerance levels. On average, exposures at 100 ppm or greater is dangerous to human health. In the United States, the OSHA limits long-term workplace exposure levels to less than 50 ppm averaged over an 8-hour period; in addition, employees are to be removed from any confined space if an upper limit (\"ceiling\") of 100 ppm is reached. Carbon monoxide exposure may lead to a significantly shorter life span due to heart damage. The carbon monoxide tolerance level for any person is altered by several factors, including activity level, rate of ventilation, a pre-existing cerebral or cardiovascular disease, cardiac output, anemia, sickle cell disease and other hematological disorders, barometric pressure, and metabolic rate.\n\nThe main manifestations of carbon monoxide poisoning develop in the organ systems most dependent on oxygen use, the central nervous system and the heart. The initial symptoms of acute carbon monoxide poisoning include headache, nausea, malaise, and fatigue. These symptoms are often mistaken for a virus such as influenza or other illnesses such as food poisoning or gastroenteritis. Headache is the most common symptom of acute carbon monoxide poisoning; it is often described as dull, frontal, and continuous. Increasing exposure produces cardiac abnormalities including fast heart rate, low blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmia; central nervous system symptoms include delirium, hallucinations, dizziness, unsteady gait, confusion, seizures, central nervous system depression, unconsciousness, respiratory arrest, and death. Less common symptoms of acute carbon monoxide poisoning include myocardial ischemia, atrial fibrillation, pneumonia, pulmonary edema, high blood sugar, lactic acidosis, muscle necrosis, acute kidney failure, skin lesions, and visual and auditory problems.\n\nOne of the major concerns following acute carbon monoxide poisoning is the severe delayed neurological manifestations that may occur. Problems may include difficulty with higher intellectual functions, short-term memory loss, dementia, amnesia, psychosis, irritability, a strange gait, speech disturbances, Parkinson's disease-like syndromes, cortical blindness, and a depressed mood. Depression may occur in those who did not have pre-existing depression. These delayed neurological sequelae may occur in up to 50% of poisoned people after 2 to 40 days. It is difficult to predict who will develop delayed sequelae; however, advanced age, loss of consciousness while poisoned, and initial neurological abnormalities may increase the chance of developing delayed symptoms.\n\nOne classic sign of carbon monoxide poisoning is more often seen in the dead rather than the living – people have been described as looking red-cheeked and healthy (see below). However, since this \"cherry-red\" appearance is common only in the deceased, and is unusual in living people, it is not considered a useful diagnostic sign in clinical medicine. In pathological (autopsy) examination the ruddy appearance of carbon monoxide poisoning is notable because unembalmed dead persons are normally bluish and pale, whereas dead carbon-monoxide poisoned persons may simply appear unusually lifelike in coloration. The colorant effect of carbon monoxide in such postmortem circumstances is thus analogous to its use as a red colorant in the commercial meat-packing industry.\n\nChronic exposure to relatively low levels of carbon monoxide may cause persistent headaches, lightheadedness, depression, confusion, memory loss, nausea, hearing disorders and vomiting. It is unknown whether low-level chronic exposure may cause permanent neurological damage. Typically, upon removal from exposure to carbon monoxide, symptoms usually resolve themselves, unless there has been an episode of severe acute poisoning. However, one case noted permanent memory loss and learning problems after a 3-year exposure to relatively low levels of carbon monoxide from a faulty furnace. Chronic exposure may worsen cardiovascular symptoms in some people. Chronic carbon monoxide exposure might increase the risk of developing atherosclerosis. Long-term exposures to carbon monoxide present the greatest risk to persons with coronary heart disease and in females who are pregnant. In experimental animals, carbon monoxide appears to worsen noise-induced hearing loss at noise exposure conditions that would have limited effects on hearing otherwise. In humans, hearing loss has been reported following carbon monoxide poisoning. Unlike the findings in animal studies, noise exposure was not a necessary factor for the auditory problems to occur.\n\nCarbon monoxide is a product of combustion of organic matter under conditions of restricted oxygen supply, which prevents complete oxidation to carbon dioxide (CO). Sources of carbon monoxide include cigarette smoke, house fires, faulty furnaces, heaters, wood-burning stoves, internal combustion vehicle exhaust, electrical generators, propane-fueled equipment such as portable stoves, and gasoline-powered tools such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, high-pressure washers, concrete cutting saws, power trowels, and welders. Exposure typically occurs when equipment is used in buildings or semi-enclosed spaces.\n\nRiding in the back of pickup trucks has led to poisoning in children. Idling automobiles with the exhaust pipe blocked by snow has led to the poisoning of car occupants. Any perforation between the exhaust manifold and shroud can result in exhaust gases reaching the cabin. Generators and propulsion engines on boats, especially houseboats, has resulted in fatal carbon monoxide exposures.\n\nPoisoning may also occur following the use of a self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (SCUBA) due to faulty diving air compressors.\n\nIn caves carbon monoxide can build up in enclosed chambers due to the presence of decomposing organic matter. In coal mines incomplete combustion may occur during explosions resulting in the production of afterdamp. The gas is up to 3% CO and may be fatal after just a single breath. Following an explosion in a colliery, adjacent interconnected mines may become dangerous due to the afterdamp leaking from mine to mine. Such an incident followed the Trimdon Grange explosion which killed men in the Kelloe mine.\n\nAnother source of poisoning is exposure to the organic solvent dichloromethane, found in some paint strippers, as the metabolism of dichloromethane produces carbon monoxide.\n\nThe precise mechanisms by which the effects of carbon monoxide are induced upon bodily systems, are complex and not yet fully understood. Known mechanisms include carbon monoxide binding to hemoglobin, myoglobin and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase and restricting oxygen supply, and carbon monoxide causing brain lipid peroxidation.\n\nCarbon monoxide has a higher diffusion coefficient compared to oxygen, and the only enzyme in the human body that produces carbon monoxide is heme oxygenase, which is located in all cells and breaks down heme. Under normal conditions, carbon monoxide levels in the plasma are approximately 0 mmHg because it has a higher diffusion coefficient and the body easily gets rid of any CO made. When CO is not ventilated it binds to hemoglobin, which is the principal oxygen-carrying compound in blood; this produces a compound known as carboxyhemoglobin. The traditional belief is that carbon monoxide toxicity arises from the formation of carboxyhemoglobin, which decreases the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood and inhibits the transport, delivery, and utilization of oxygen by the body. The affinity between hemoglobin and carbon monoxide is approximately 230 times stronger than the affinity between hemoglobin and oxygen so hemoglobin binds to carbon monoxide in preference to oxygen.\n\nHemoglobin is a tetramer with four oxygen binding sites. The binding of carbon monoxide at one of these sites increases the oxygen affinity of the remaining three sites, which causes the hemoglobin molecule to retain oxygen that would otherwise be delivered to the tissue. This situation is described as carbon monoxide shifting the oxygen dissociation curve to the left. Because of the increased affinity between hemoglobin and oxygen during carbon monoxide poisoning, little oxygen will actually be released in the tissues. This causes hypoxic tissue injury. Hemoglobin acquires a bright red color when converted into carboxyhemoglobin, so poisoned cadavers and even commercial meats treated with carbon monoxide acquire an unnatural reddish hue.\n\nCarbon monoxide also binds to the hemeprotein myoglobin. It has a high affinity for myoglobin, about 60 times greater than that of oxygen. Carbon monoxide bound to myoglobin may impair its ability to utilize oxygen. This causes reduced cardiac output and hypotension, which may result in brain ischemia. A delayed return of symptoms have been reported. This results following a recurrence of increased carboxyhemoglobin levels; this effect may be due to a late release of carbon monoxide from myoglobin, which subsequently binds to hemoglobin.\n\nAnother mechanism involves effects on the mitochondrial respiratory enzyme chain that is responsible for effective tissue utilization of oxygen. Carbon monoxide binds to cytochrome oxidase with less affinity than oxygen, so it is possible that it requires significant intracellular hypoxia before binding. This binding interferes with aerobic metabolism and efficient adenosine triphosphate synthesis. Cells respond by switching to anaerobic metabolism, causing anoxia, lactic acidosis, and eventual cell death. The rate of dissociation between carbon monoxide and cytochrome oxidase is slow, causing a relatively prolonged impairment of oxidative metabolism.\n\nThe mechanism that is thought to have a significant influence on delayed effects involves formed blood cells and chemical mediators, which cause brain lipid peroxidation (degradation of unsaturated fatty acids). Carbon monoxide causes endothelial cell and platelet release of nitric oxide, and the formation of oxygen free radicals including peroxynitrite. In the brain this causes further mitochondrial dysfunction, capillary leakage, leukocyte sequestration, and apoptosis. The result of these effects is lipid peroxidation, which causes delayed reversible demyelinization of white matter in the central nervous system known as Grinker myelinopathy, which can lead to edema and necrosis within the brain. This brain damage occurs mainly during the recovery period. This may result in cognitive defects, especially affecting memory and learning, and movement disorders. These disorders are typically related to damage to the cerebral white matter and basal ganglia. Hallmark pathological changes following poisoning are bilateral necrosis of the white matter, globus pallidus, cerebellum, hippocampus and the cerebral cortex.\n\nCarbon monoxide poisoning in pregnant women may cause severe adverse fetal effects. Poisoning causes fetal tissue hypoxia by decreasing the release of maternal oxygen to the fetus. Carbon monoxide also crosses the placenta and combines with fetal hemoglobin, causing more direct fetal tissue hypoxia. Additionally, fetal hemoglobin has a 10 to 15% higher affinity for carbon monoxide than adult hemoglobin, causing more severe poisoning in the fetus than in the adult. Elimination of carbon monoxide is slower in the fetus, leading to an accumulation of the toxic chemical. The level of fetal morbidity and mortality in acute carbon monoxide poisoning is significant, so despite mild maternal poisoning or following maternal recovery, severe fetal poisoning or death may still occur.\n\nAs many symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning also occur with many other types of poisonings and infections (such as the flu), the diagnosis is often difficult. A history of potential carbon monoxide exposure, such as being exposed to a residential fire, may suggest poisoning, but the diagnosis is confirmed by measuring the levels of carbon monoxide in the blood. This can be determined by measuring the amount of carboxyhemoglobin compared to the amount of hemoglobin in the blood.\n\nThe ratio of carboxyhemoglobin to hemoglobin molecules in an average person may be up to 5%, although cigarette smokers who smoke two packs per day may have levels up to 9%. In symptomatic poisoned people they are often in the 10–30% range, while persons who die may have postmortem blood levels of 30–90%.\n\nAs people may continue to experience significant symptoms of CO poisoning long after their blood carboxyhemoglobin concentration has returned to normal, presenting to examination with a normal carboxyhemoglobin level (which may happen in late states of poisoning) does not rule out poisoning.\n\nCarbon monoxide may be quantitated in blood using spectrophotometric methods or chromatographic techniques in order to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning in a person or to assist in the forensic investigation of a case of fatal exposure.\n\nA CO-oximeter can be used to determine carboxyhemoglobin levels. Pulse CO-oximeters estimate carboxyhemoglobin with a non-invasive finger clip similar to a pulse oximeter. These devices function by passing various wavelengths of light through the fingertip and measuring the light absorption of the different types of hemoglobin in the capillaries. The use of a regular pulse oximeter is not effective in the diagnosis of carbon monoxide poisoning as people with carbon monoxide poisoning may have a normal oxygen saturation level on a pulse oximeter. This is due to the carboxyhemoglobin being misrepresented as oxyhemoglobin.\n\nBreath CO monitoring offers an alternative to pulse CO-oximetry. Carboxyhemoglobin levels have been shown to have a strong correlation with breath CO concentration. However, many of these devices require the user to inhale deeply and hold their breath to allow the CO in the blood to escape into the lung before the measurement can be made. As this is not possible in people who are unresponsive, these devices may not appropriate for use in on-scene emergency care detection of CO poisoning.\n\nThere are many conditions to be considered in the differential diagnosis of carbon monoxide poisoning. The earliest symptoms, especially from low level exposures, are often non-specific and readily confused with other illnesses, typically flu-like viral syndromes, depression, chronic fatigue syndrome, chest pain, and migraine or other headaches. Carbon monoxide has been called a \"great mimicker\" due to the presentation of poisoning being diverse and nonspecific. Other conditions included in the differential diagnosis include acute respiratory distress syndrome, altitude sickness, lactic acidosis, diabetic ketoacidosis, meningitis, methemoglobinemia, or opioid or toxic alcohol poisoning.\n\nPrevention remains a vital public health issue, requiring public education on the safe operation of appliances, heaters, fireplaces, and internal-combustion engines, as well as increased emphasis on the installation of carbon monoxide detectors. Carbon monoxide is tasteless and odourless, and therefore can not be detected by visual cues or smell.\n\nThe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission has stated, \"carbon monoxide detectors are as important to home safety as smoke detectors are,\" and recommends each home have at least one carbon monoxide detector, and preferably one on each level of the building. These devices, which are relatively inexpensive and widely available, are either battery- or AC-powered, with or without battery backup. In buildings, carbon monoxide detectors are usually installed around heaters and other equipment. If a relatively high level of carbon monoxide is detected, the device sounds an alarm, giving people the chance to evacuate and ventilate the building. Unlike smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors do not need to be placed near ceiling level.\n\nThe use of carbon monoxide detectors has been standardized in many areas. In the US, NFPA 720-2009, the carbon monoxide detector guidelines published by the National Fire Protection Association, mandates the placement of carbon monoxide detectors/alarms on every level of the residence, including the basement, in addition to outside sleeping areas. In new homes, AC-powered detectors must have battery backup and be interconnected to ensure early warning of occupants at all levels. NFPA 720-2009 is the first national carbon monoxide standard to address devices in non-residential buildings. These guidelines, which now pertain to schools, healthcare centers, nursing homes and other non-residential buildings, include three main points:\n\nGas organizations will often recommend to get gas appliances serviced at least once a year.\n\nThe NFPA standard is not necessarily enforced by law. As of April 2006, the US state of Massachusetts requires detectors to be present in all residences with potential CO sources, regardless of building age and whether they are owner-occupied or rented. This is enforced by municipal inspectors, and was inspired by the death of 7-year-old Nicole Garofalo in 2005 due to snow blocking a home heating vent. Other jurisdictions may have no requirement or only mandate detectors for new construction or at time of sale.\n\nDespite similar deaths in vehicles with clogged exhaust pipes (for example in the Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978 and February 2013 nor'easter) and the commercial availability of the equipment, there is no legal requirement for automotive CO detectors.\n\nThe following guideline values (ppm values rounded) and periods of time-weighted average exposures have been determined in such a way that the carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) level of 2.5% is not exceeded, even when a normal subject engages in light or moderate exercise:\n\nFor indoor air quality 7 mg/m3 (6 ppm) for 24 h (so as not to exceed 2% COHb for chronic exposure)\n\nInitial treatment for carbon monoxide poisoning is to immediately remove the person from the exposure without endangering further people. Those who are unconscious may require CPR on site. Administering oxygen via non-rebreather mask shortens the half-life of carbon monoxide from 320 minutes, when breathing normal air, to only 80 minutes. Oxygen hastens the dissociation of carbon monoxide from carboxyhemoglobin, thus turning it back into hemoglobin. Due to the possible severe effects in the fetus, pregnant women are treated with oxygen for longer periods of time than non-pregnant people.\n\nHyperbaric oxygen is also used in the treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning, as it may hasten dissociation of CO from carboxyhemoglobin and cytochrome oxidase to a greater extent than normal oxygen. Hyperbaric oxygen at three times atmospheric pressure reduces the half life of carbon monoxide to 23 (~80/3 minutes) minutes, compared to 80 minutes for oxygen at regular atmospheric pressure. It may also enhance oxygen transport to the tissues by plasma, partially bypassing the normal transfer through hemoglobin. However, it is controversial whether hyperbaric oxygen actually offers any extra benefits over normal high flow oxygen, in terms of increased survival or improved long-term outcomes. There have been randomized controlled trials in which the two treatment options have been compared; of the six performed, four found hyperbaric oxygen improved outcome and two found no benefit for hyperbaric oxygen. Some of these trials have been criticized for apparent flaws in their implementation. A review of all the literature concluded that the role of hyperbaric oxygen is unclear and the available evidence neither confirms nor denies a medically meaningful benefit. The authors suggested a large, well designed, externally audited, multicentre trial to compare normal oxygen with hyperbaric oxygen.\n\nFurther treatment for other complications such as seizure, hypotension, cardiac abnormalities, pulmonary edema, and acidosis may be required. Increased muscle activity and seizures should be treated with dantrolene or diazepam; diazepam should only be given with appropriate respiratory support. Hypotension requires treatment with intravenous fluids; vasopressors may be required to treat myocardial depression. Cardiac dysrhythmias are treated with standard advanced cardiac life support protocols. If severe, metabolic acidosis is treated with sodium bicarbonate. Treatment with sodium bicarbonate is controversial as acidosis may increase tissue oxygen availability. Treatment of acidosis may only need to consist of oxygen therapy. The delayed development of neuropsychiatric impairment is one of the most serious complications of carbon monoxide poisoning. Brain damage is confirmed following MRI or CAT scans. Extensive follow up and supportive treatment is often required for delayed neurological damage. Outcomes are often difficult to predict following poisoning, especially people who have symptoms of cardiac arrest, coma, metabolic acidosis, or have high carboxyhemoglobin levels. One study reported that approximately 30% of people with severe carbon monoxide poisoning will have a fatal outcome. It has been reported that electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may increase the likelihood of delayed neuropsychiatric sequelae (DNS) after carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning.\n\nThe true number of cases of carbon monoxide poisoning is unknown, since many non-lethal exposures go undetected. From the available data, carbon monoxide poisoning is the most common cause of injury and death due to poisoning worldwide. Poisoning is typically more common during the winter months. This is due to increased domestic use of gas furnaces, gas or kerosene space heaters, and kitchen stoves during the winter months, which if faulty and/or used without adequate ventilation, may produce excessive carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide detection and poisoning also increases during power outages, when electric heating and cooking appliances become inoperative and residents may temporarily resort to fuel-burning space heaters, stoves, and grills (some of which are safe only for outdoor use but nonetheless are errantly burned indoors).\n\nIt has been estimated that more than 40,000 people per year seek medical attention for carbon monoxide poisoning in the United States. 95% of carbon monoxide poisoning deaths in the United States are due to gas space heaters. In many industrialized countries carbon monoxide is the cause of more than 50% of fatal poisonings. In the United States, approximately 200 people die each year from carbon monoxide poisoning associated with home fuel-burning heating equipment. Carbon monoxide poisoning contributes to the approximately 5613 smoke inhalation deaths each year in the United States. The CDC reports, \"Each year, more than 500 Americans die from unintentional carbon monoxide poisoning, and more than 2,000 commit suicide by intentionally poisoning themselves.\" For the 10-year period from 1979 to 1988, 56,133 deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning occurred in the United States, with 25,889 of those being suicides, leaving 30,244 unintentional deaths. A report from New Zealand showed that 206 people died from carbon monoxide poisoning in the years of 2001 and 2002. In total carbon monoxide poisoning was responsible for 43.9% of deaths by poisoning in that country. In South Korea, 1,950 people had been poisoned by carbon monoxide with 254 deaths from 2001 through 2003. A report from Jerusalem showed 3.53 per 100,000 people were poisoned annually from 2001 through 2006. In Hubei, China, 218 deaths from poisoning were reported over a 10-year period with 16.5% being from carbon monoxide exposure.\n\nThe earliest description of carbon monoxide poisoning dates to at least 200 BC by Aristotle. Documented cases of carbon monoxide being used as a method of suicide date to at least 100 BC in ancient Rome. In the AD 350s, the Roman emperor Julian suffered from carbon monoxide poisoning in Paris, and later described it in his work \"Misopogon\": \"though the winter weather prevailed and continually increased in severity, even so I did not allow my servants to heat the house, because I was afraid of drawing out the dampness in the walls; but I ordered them to carry in fire that had burned down and to place in the room a very moderate number of hot coals. But the coals, though there were not very many of them, brought out from the walls quantities of steam and this made me fall asleep. And since my head was filled with the fumes I was almost choked. Then I was carried outside.\" This misunderstanding of the causes of carbon monoxide poisoning may have caused the death of Julian's successor, Jovian.\n\nJohn Scott Haldane identified carbon monoxide as the lethal constituent of afterdamp, the gas created by combustion, after examining many bodies of miners killed in pit explosions. Their skin was coloured cherry-pink from carboxyhaemoglobin, the stable compound formed in the blood by reaction with the gas. As a result of his research, he was able to design respirators for rescue workers. He tested the effect of carbon monoxide on his own body in a closed chamber, describing the results of his slow poisoning. In the late 1890s, he introduced the use of small animals for miners to detect dangerous levels of carbon monoxide underground, either white mice or canaries. With a faster metabolism, they showed the effects of poisoning before gas levels became critical for the workers, and so gave an early warning of the problem. The canary in British pits was replaced in 1986 by the electronic gas detector.\n\nAs part of the Holocaust during World War II, German Nazis used gas vans at Chelmno extermination camp and elsewhere to kill an estimated over 700,000 prisoners by carbon monoxide poisoning. This method was also used in the gas chambers of several death camps such as Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec. Gassing with carbon monoxide started in action T4, the programme developed by the Nazis in Germany to murder the mentally ill and disabled people before the war started in earnest. The gas was supplied by IG Farben in pressurized cylinders and fed by tubes into the gas chambers built at various mental hospitals, such as Hartheim Euthanasia Centre. Many key personnel were recruited from the T4 programme to murder much larger numbers of people in the gas vans and the special gas chambers used in the death camps such as Treblinka. Exhaust fumes from tank engines for example, were used to supply the gas to the chambers.\n\nThe use of oxygen as treatment began in 1868. The use of hyperbaric oxygen in rats following poisoning was studied by Haldane in 1895 while its use in humans began in the 1960s.\n\nCarbon monoxide is produced naturally by the body as a byproduct of converting protoporphyrin into bilirubin. This carbon monoxide also combines with hemoglobin to make carboxyhemoglobin, but not at toxic levels.\n\nSmall amounts of CO are beneficial and enzymes exist that produce it at times of oxidative stress. Drugs are being developed to introduce small amounts of CO during certain kinds of surgery, these drugs are called carbon monoxide-releasing molecules.\n\n"}
{"id": "36190269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36190269", "title": "Chang'e 5", "text": "Chang'e 5\n\nChang'e 5 () is a robotic Chinese lunar exploration mission consisting of an orbiter and a lander. It is currently under development and it is scheduled for a launch in December 2019, after being postponed due to the failure of the Long March 5 launch vehicle in 2017. Chang'e 5 will be China's first sample return mission, aiming to return at least 2 kilograms of lunar soil and rock samples back to the Earth. Like its predecessors, the spacecraft is named after the Chinese moon goddess, Chang'e. This will be the first lunar sample-return mission since Luna 24 in 1976. \n\nThe Chinese Lunar Exploration Program is designed to be conducted in three phases of incremental technological advancement: The first is simply reaching lunar orbit, a task completed by Chang'e 1 in 2007 and Chang'e 2 in 2010. The second is landing and roving on the Moon, as Chang'e 3 did in 2013 and Chang'e 4 is now expected to achieve in 2019. The third phase is collecting lunar samples from the near-side and sending them to Earth, a task for the future Chang'e 5 and Chang'e 6 missions. The program aims to facilitate a crewed lunar landing in the 2030s and possibly build an outpost near the south pole.\n\nThe probe was planned for launch by the Long March 5 rocket at the Wenchang Satellite Launch Center on Hainan Island, but the failure of this vehicle in 2017 created uncertainty about its ability to carry Chang'e 5. Targeted to the northwest region of the Moon, the specific region intended for sampling is Mons Rümker in Oceanus Procellarum. After making a soft landing, the lander will dig below the surface for a 2 kg lunar sample from basalt estimated to be 1.3 billion years old, younger than the 3–4 billion year old samples obtained by the American Apollo missions.\n\nUnlike earlier Soviet missions, the mission will make an automatic rendezvous and docking with the return module in lunar orbit before flying back to the Earth.\n\nChang'e 5-T1 is an experimental robotic lunar mission that was launched on 23 October 2014 to conduct atmospheric re-entry tests on the capsule design planned to be used in the Chang'e 5 mission.\n\nThe lander will carry landing cameras, optical cameras, a mineral spectrometer, a soil gas analytical instrument, a soil composition analytical instrument, a sampling sectional thermo-detector, and a ground-penetrating radar. For acquiring samples, it will be equipped with a robotic arm, rotary-percussive drill, a scoop for sampling, and separation tubes to isolate individual samples.\n"}
{"id": "1356810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356810", "title": "Commerce One", "text": "Commerce One\n\nCommerce One, Inc. was a B2B e-commerce company that used online auctions to connect business to their suppliers. At the peak of dot-com bubble, the company had a market capitalization of $21.5 billion. \n\nThe company's technologies included Schema for Object-Oriented XML (SOX), an XML schema technology that influenced the development of the W3C's XML Schema language and the Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB).\n\nThe company was founded in 1994 as DistriVision by Tom Gonzales and his son, Tom Gonzales Jr. It was renamed Commerce One in 1997 after Mark Hoffman became CEO.\n\nIn January 1999, the company acquired Veo Systems from Asim Abdullah for $300 million. \n\nIn November 1999, the company acquired CommerceBid from Ramesh Balwani for $4.5 million in cash and 785,000 shares and the company partnered with General Motors to create an online marketplace. \n\nIn July 1999, on its first trading day after its initial public offering, the company's stock price rose 190%. \n\nIn September 2000, the company acquired AppNet for $1.6 billion in stock.\n\nIn December 2000, the company formed Covisint with Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Daimler AG, Renault, and Nissan. Ford and General Motors each received 14.4 million shares of Commerce One and Commerce One owned 2% of Covisint.\n\nIn 2001, co-founder Tom Gonzales Jr. died of a rare cancer at age 35 and left his stake in the company in a trust to help the needy. His father was later accused of mismanaging trust funds.\n\nIn October 2002, the company announced that it planned to lay off 400 employees, 36% of its staff. \n\nThe company filed bankruptcy on October 6, 2004 and emerged from bankruptcy 2 months later. \n\nIn December 2004, a portion of its patent portfolio was sold by a bankruptcy court to JGR Acquisitions, a subsidiary of Novell, for $15.5 million. The remaining business interests, including all remaining intellectual property rights to the software, together with a patent license from JGR, were sold to new investors that continued to operate the company as Commerce One.\n\nPerfect Commerce acquired Commerce One on February 7, 2006.\n\nProactis acquired Perfect Commerce on July 7, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "18463114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18463114", "title": "Don't Come Around Here No More", "text": "Don't Come Around Here No More\n\n\"Don't Come Around Here No More\" is a song written by Tom Petty of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers and David A. Stewart of Eurythmics. It was released in February 1985 as the lead single from Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers' \"Southern Accents\" album.\n\nThe original inspiration was a romantic encounter that producer David A. Stewart of Eurythmics had with Stevie Nicks of Fleetwood Mac. On \"The Howard Stern Show\", Stewart explained that the title's phrase was actually uttered by Nicks. She had broken up with Eagles guitarist Joe Walsh the night before, and invited Stewart to her place for a party after an early Eurythmics show in Los Angeles. Stewart did not know who she was at the time, but went anyway. When the partygoers all disappeared to a bathroom for a couple of hours to snort cocaine, he decided to go upstairs to bed. He woke up at 5 a.m. to find Nicks in his room trying on Victorian clothing and described the entire scenario as very much reminiscent of \"Alice in Wonderland\". Later that morning, she told Walsh, \"Don't come around here no more.\"\n\nThe music video is themed around \"Alice in Wonderland\" and was directed by Jeff Stein. Dave Stewart appears as the caterpillar at the beginning, sitting on a mushroom with a hookah water pipe while playing a sitar. Petty appears in the video dressed as The Mad Hatter, and actress Louise “Wish” Foley played Alice. At the climax of the video, Alice is turned into a cake and is eaten by Petty and even friends of her own. The video ends with her being swallowed whole by Petty, after which he gives a small burp and pats his mouth dry.\n\nThe Heartbreakers\n\nAdditional personnel\n\nSusanna of Susanna and the Magical Orchestra gives the song a low-key, piano-based cover on her 2008 album \"Flower of Evil\". Indie band Vampire Weekend covers the song on a steady basis during live shows. British indie pop singer-songwriter Diana Vickers covered the song as a promotional track ahead of the release of her second album. The song was parodied by Bob Rivers. Showrunner Noah Hawley and composer Jeff Russo also performed a cover for a season two episode of the TV show \"Legion\".\n"}
{"id": "41965060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41965060", "title": "Eisenhower Tree", "text": "Eisenhower Tree\n\nThe Eisenhower Tree was a loblolly pine located on the Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia. In the 1950s it was named after then-U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower who unsuccessfully lobbied to have it taken down after it interfered with his golf game. Due to its size, history, and location on a prominent golf course, it is considered iconic of the Augusta golf course and is one of the most famous trees in American golf. It was called \"among the most famous landmarks in golf\" by Cindy Boren in the \"Washington Post\" and \"arguably the most famous tree in golf\" by Martin Dempster of \"The Scotsman\". In February 2014, the tree was removed after suffering extensive damage from a major ice storm.\n\nThe tree species was a native loblolly pine. It stood about tall and was wider than is typical. It was located on the 17th hole at the Augusta National Golf Club, approximately from the Masters tee on the left side of the fairway. It was estimated to be 100 to 125 years old at the time it died.\n\nThe tree was named after President Eisenhower, an Augusta National member, hit the tree while playing golf so many times that, at a 1956 club meeting, he proposed that it be cut down. Not wanting to offend the president, the club's chairman, Clifford Roberts, immediately adjourned the meeting rather than reject the request. Bumper stickers made during Eisenhower's second presidential campaign reading \"Ben Hogan For President. If We're Going To Have A Golfer--Let's Have A Good One!\" were a reference to the incident.\n\nThe Eisenhower Tree has played a prominent role in the annual Masters Tournament. One year, the Tree came into play as Tommy Aaron hit a shot off the 17th tee which became known as the \"Lost Ball Incident\". The ball could not be located and a drop was given. The next day according to Aaron, while playing on the 17th again, the ball apparently fell from its perch within the tree. Jack Nicklaus stated \"I'm not sure I believe it.\"\n\nWhen the course was redesigned in 1999 to be more challenging, there were concerns about the tree blocking players but it proved not to be a hindrance.\n\nIn 2011, Tiger Woods was playing a shot from underneath the Eisenhower and damaged his left knee and Achilles tendon when he slipped on some pine straw. The injuries sidelined him until August 2011 and his world ranking dropped to 58th.\n\nIn February 2014, the Eisenhower Tree was removed after suffering extensive damage during a major ice storm. \"The loss of the Eisenhower Tree is difficult news to accept\", Augusta National chairman Billy Payne said. \"We obtained opinions from the best arborists available and … were advised that no recovery was possible.\" The storm occurred two months before the Masters Tournament. A remnant of the tree was donated to the Eisenhower Presidential Library in Abilene, KS and is on display.\n\nThe loss of the tree brought tributes. Jack Nicklaus said, \"The Eisenhower Tree is such an iconic fixture and symbol of tradition at Augusta National. It was such an integral part of the game and one that will be sorely missed.\"\n\nThere is another tree named after Eisenhower, located at Dalmeny Golf Club in Scotland, planted by the President during a visit to Edinburgh to receive the freedom of the city in 1946. On hearing of the death in Augusta, the club offered to provide an acorn to plant a new oak tree.\n\nA few yards beyond the Eisenhower Tree, another tree was planted a number of years ago. This tree was also removed due to the ice storm.\n\n"}
{"id": "181142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181142", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1962", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1962\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1962 was the seventh edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest, held on Sunday 18 March 1962 at the Villa Louvigny in Luxembourg. The contest was won for a third time by France with the song \"Un premier amour\", performed by Isabelle Aubret. This marked the first time a country had won three contests. Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, and Spain all scored \"nul points\" for the first time.\n\nThe 1962 Eurovision Song Contest was hosted in Luxembourg City. The venue chosen to host the 1962 contest was the Villa Louvigny. The building served as the headquarters of Compagnie Luxembourgeoise de Télédiffusion, the forerunner of RTL Group. It is located in Municipal Park, in the Ville Haute quarter of the centre of the city.\n\nAfter France's entry had been performed, there was a short power failure rendering the screens dark. There also seemed to be an even shorter power failure during the Netherlands entry, when viewers around Europe only saw darkness on their television screens when the Netherlands performed. The power failure seemed to affect the Netherlands score during the voting. Nevertheless, the song turned out to be popular in Europe after the contest.\n\nAll countries who participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1961 returned for a second consecutive year, with no new countries making a début, nor any nations returning or withdrawing.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who maestro the orchestra.\n\nThe contest saw the return of four artists this year, with three artists having previously participated in the 1960. Camillo Felgen for Luxembourg; François Deguelt for Monaco; and Fud Leclerc making his fourth appearance for Belgium, having also been present at the 1956 and 1958 contests. Jean Philippe, having previous represented France in 1959, returned to the contest as a representative for Switzerland.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 3 points in the final:\n\nThe table below shows the order in which votes were cast during the 1962 contest along with the spokesperson who was responsible for announcing the votes for their respective country. Each national broadcaster also sent a commentator to the contest, in order to provide coverage of the contest in their own native language. Details of the commentators and the broadcasting station for which they represented are also included in the table below.\n\n"}
{"id": "209375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209375", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1997", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1997\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1997, was the 42nd edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Dublin, Ireland, following Eimear Quinn's win at the 1996 contest in Oslo, Norway with the song \"The Voice\". This was a record seventh hosting of the event for Ireland, and the fourth in five years.\n\nThe contest was held at the Point Theatre on 3 May 1997. Carrie Crowley and Boyzone member Ronan Keating were the presenters of the show. Twenty-five countries took part in the 1997 Contest, which saw return after a three-year absence - the last participation being in , along with , , , and , who last took part in , despite having taken part in the non-televised 1996 pre-qualifying round in which they failed to qualify and therefore were absent. , , and had to withdraw from the contest due to the relegation rule.\n\nThe United Kingdom won the competition, thanks to Katrina and the Waves, led by American-born Katrina Leskanich, making it the second time that the British won the Eurovision on Irish soil (after 1981). It also remains the last time the United Kingdom won the contest (as of 2018).\n\nIreland hosted the contest for the fourth time in five years after winning the in Oslo. Dublin was chosen to be the host city, making it the sixth time that the Eurovision Song Contest was staged in the Irish capital. The venue for the contest was the Point Theatre located on the North Wall Quay of the River Liffey, amongst the Dublin Docklands. The theatre previously hosted the and contests. The Point Theatre is the only venue to have hosted the final three times.\n\nAfter the controversy over the 1996 pre-qualifying round, the European Broadcasting Union introduced a new system for 1997: countries with the lowest average scores over the previous four years would be excluded from the 1997 contest, and those with the lowest averages over the previous five years would be excluded from future contests (save that every country so excluded for one year would automatically be allowed to participate the following year), with so many countries being omitted as would reduce the number of participants each year to 25.\n\nIsrael declined to participate, as the Contest was held on its Holocaust Remembrance Day, granting a reprieve to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would otherwise have been excluded owing to its low point average over the previous four years. RTÉ once again produced a highly spectacular show, with a stage that had a smaller performance space for the artists than in previous years. This was the third Eurovision set to be designed by Paula Farrell, who had previously been involved with the 1988 and 1994 contests.\n\nThere was a wide array of different styles this year. Denmark brought a rap song, Croatia came with their version of the Spice Girls and Sweden brought a mid-1980s style boy band. The music was in general more modern than before, and for the first time since , an up-tempo song won. This year, televoting was tested in five countries: Austria, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The results of the televoting countries were, in some cases, different from those that used a jury. Iceland received 16 of its 18 points from these five countries.\n\nAlso, for the first time in Eurovision history, there was a country where not one, but two spokespeople gave votes - France. Television reporter Frédéric Ferrer and Eurovision winner Marie Myriam each took turns at giving results from that country. Long-time Irish conductor Noel Kelehan was not the host conductor this year, the duty being fulfilled by Frank McNamara.\n\nAlma Čardžić returned for after last representing the nation in . Maarja-Liis Ilus and Şebnem Paker both returned for a representing and respectively.\n\nMost performances had a conductor who maestro the orchestra.\n\nEach country had a jury that awarded 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 points for their top ten songs, or a televote, where the top ten most voted for songs were awarded the 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 points. Iceland got most of its 18 points from the 5 countries that used televoting. Ireland was ostensibly the best scoring country across the televoting countries, except they were able to score points from all 5 televoting countries. The United Kingdom was only eligible to receive points from 4 of them, since they couldn't vote for themselves. In fact, the UK received 12 points from all the other televoting countries except Germany, from whom they received 10 points: in other words, the UK earned 46 of 48 possible televote points that year; Ireland earned 47 of 60 possible televote points—including their only 12 from the UK.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12-point in the final:\n\nKatrina and the Waves, (with lead vocalist Katrina Leskanich) representing the United Kingdom, were the winners of the contest with the song \"Love Shine a Light\", written by that band's lead guitarist Kimberley Rew, and Marc Roberts from Republic of Ireland came second with \"Mysterious Woman\". Despite being the runner-up, it remarkably received only one 12-point score, which came from the United Kingdom. The UK spokesman Colin Berry remarked: \"You're going to like this one: Ireland, twelve points!\" causing Terry Wogan to reply: \"Well, tit for tat!\" The winning song scored an unprecedented 227 points; it received points from all participating countries, including five sets of 10 points and a record-breaking ten sets of the maximum 12 points. \"Love Shine a Light\" is still regarded as one of the most successful Eurovision winners, and was the closing song in the medleys that opened the 50th anniversary show \"Congratulations\" in Copenhagen in 2005, and the ESC 2006 semi-final in Athens. With this victory, the United Kingdom has five Eurovision wins and it is to date the country's last win in the Contest.\n\nFor the first time, the fansite House of Eurovision presented the Barbara Dex Award, a humorous award given to the worst dressed artist each year in the contest. It is named after the Belgian artist, Barbara Dex, who came last in the 1993 contest, in which she wore her own self designed dress. House of Eurovision would continue to provide the Barbara Dex Award until 2016, when another Eurovision fansite, songfestival.be, took the reins of the award and will present it every year starting with the 2017 Eurovision Song Contest in Ukraine.\n\nDebbie Scerri of Malta was the 1997 Barbara Dex Award winner.\n\nThe order in which each country announced their votes was determined by order of performance in the contest. The spokespersons are shown alongside each country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7433343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7433343", "title": "FEMA trailer", "text": "FEMA trailer\n\nThe term FEMA trailer,\nor FEMA travel trailer, is the name commonly given by the United States Government to forms of temporary manufactured housing assigned to the victims of natural disaster by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Such trailers are intended to provide intermediate term shelter, functioning longer than tents which are often used for short-term shelter immediately following a disaster. FEMA trailers serve a similar function to the \"earthquake shacks\" erected to provide interim housing after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.\n\nFEMA trailers were used to house thousands of people in South Florida displaced by Hurricane Andrew in August 1992, some for as long as two and a half years. After Hurricane Charley in 2004, 17,000 FEMA-issued trailers and mobile homes were successfully deployed. At least 145,000 trailers were bought by FEMA to house survivors who lost their homes during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season due to Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. FEMA trailers were also made available after extensive flooding in parts of New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey due to Superstorm Sandy in 2012.\n\nNews reports of health issues relating to Katrina-issue FEMA trailers began to appear in July 2006. A federal report in July 2008 identified toxic levels of formaldehyde in 42% of the trailers examined, attributing problems to poor construction and substandard building materials. As of 2012, two class-action lawsuits were settled, between residents of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Texas, and (1) manufacturers who built mobile homes for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and (2) FEMA contractors who installed and maintained them.\n\nFEMA trailers are the property of the U.S. Government and are expected to be returned after use. In 1995, some Florida residents who had difficulty finding accommodation in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew \"bought their FEMA trailers for an average of $1,100 each.\" Following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the U.S. Government was left with large numbers of FEMA trailers. Surplus FEMA trailers were sold via online public auctions conducted by the General Services Administration. The distribution and resale of Katrina FEMA trailers has been heavily criticized given the possible health risks involved.\n\nSince 2012, FEMA has modified its model for responding to storms. It provides money for temporary housing or repairs to get through the emergency, and treats FEMA trailers as a \"last resort\".\n\nAlthough several types and sizes of manufactured structures have been installed throughout the Gulf Coast region, most are mass-produced, one-bedroom travel trailers. These typical FEMA trailers are designed to accommodate two adults and two children. There are larger trailers and other manufactured structures that can accommodate larger families.\n\nA typical FEMA trailer can measure 14' by 22' (308 sq. ft.) or 8' by 32' (256 sq. ft.). It consists of a master bedroom with a standard size bed, a living area with kitchen and stove, bunk beds, and a bathroom with shower. Each trailer is equipped with electricity, air conditioning, indoor heating, running cold and hot water, a propane-operated stove and oven, a small microwave oven, a large refrigerator, and a few pieces of furniture attached to the floor; usually a sofabed, a small table, and two chairs. There are only a handful of FEMA trailer designs, so nearly all trailers have the same general layout. Furniture is attached to the trailer; it is not possible to move it, and it would be illegal to do so. It is also illegal to paint the inside or outside of the trailer. Trailers have little storage space, can be very cramped, and offer little or no privacy.\n\nEach trailer is elevated about two feet (0.6 m) above the ground, on concrete supports. There is only one door on the side of each trailer, which is accessible through a wooden or aluminum stairwell. There are also long ramps for wheelchair-using occupants. Electrical service to the FEMA trailers is installed by the local power company. (For example, in most of the Gulf Coast region power is provided by the Entergy Corporation.) Each trailer has its own power meter. Trailers have ports for telephone access, cable, and Internet access. However, these services are not handled by FEMA, and a trailer occupant must arrange to have these services installed by a local provider.\n\nThe typical FEMA trailer has two propane tanks on the front of the trailer behind the master bedroom, which provide the hot water, indoor heating, and gas for the stove and oven. Running water for the trailer is usually provided by some sort of water source on the property, usually through a garden hose. Sewage is piped directly to an underground sewage main on the property. Most trailers have several windows which can be opened, as well as small light fixtures in each room.\n\nFEMA trailers are manufactured from plastic, aluminum, and particle board, and are therefore somewhat flimsy and require more maintenance than a permanent structure. They are also poorly insulated, offer little sound insulation, and are known to sway in high winds.\n\nWhile occupying FEMA travel trailers or mobile homes, residents are responsible for maintaining their trailers, such as keeping the trailers clean, changing lightbulbs and smoke-detector batteries, and making sure propane fuel tanks are refilled with fuel.\n\nTravel trailers and mobile homes are to be inspected once a month for the occupant's safety and convenience: if a travel trailer or mobile home requires maintenance beyond basic upkeep, residents are told to call the appropriate travel trailer maintenance hotline for their parish or county. In Houston, 1200 of the 4600 trailers initially issued after Hurricane Rita required serious repairs by late 2006.\n\nFEMA trailers are intended to provide temporary housing for homeowners after a disaster, until they can repair or rebuild their homes. Hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and other natural disasters can cause extensive damage to residential neighborhoods, as occurred in 2005 because of Hurricane Katrina.\n\nDamaged areas may take substantial periods of time to repair. Residents may be unable to return home for long periods of time while local government officials attempt to restore basic infrastructure for water and electricity. Flood damage to existing homes and apartments may require the complete removal and replacement of carpeting, flooring, insulation, and sheetrock. Flood damage beyond a few inches may also destroy furniture, appliances, and other personal belongings. Buildings that have sustained significant water damage, including apartment complexes, often require extensive rebuilding and a mold-removal process known as \"mold remediation\" before they can be rendered safe enough for habitation. Roofs may also need to be replaced or repaired.\n\nWidespread damage in an area may cause extreme housing shortages. The extent of the rebuilding effort in such an area may cause a shortage of building contractors and materials throughout the region. This further delays the construction of new housing, and increases a need for existing apartments or motels to house incoming construction and service workers. Leasing rates for apartments may become prohibitively high for those who have lost their homes, particularly working class storm victims. FEMA trailers, which are offered rent-free, may be the only form of habitable dwellings available to those within a disaster area. In 2005, \"the devastation of housing in New Orleans and surrounding communities was so widespread that large numbers of the displaced had few options but to take up residence in FEMA parks\" following extreme flood damage. FEMA trailer occupants reported that they preferred the trailers to living in cars, tents, partially gutted homes, and the crowded homes of relatives.\n\nFEMA policy generally allows residents to live in a FEMA trailer for a period of 18 months, beginning at the time at which they receive access to the trailer. However, this period has sometimes been extended when availability of housing continued to be a serious problem for a longer time. In the case of Hurricane Katrina in August 2005, deadlines were extended to allow people to live in trailers for up to 45 months.\n\nPeople within a disaster area are eligible to apply for various forms of \"Housing assistance\" from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). These may include: (1) reimbursement for short term hotel expenses (2) money or vouchers towards rental of a place to live for up to 18 months while your home is being repaired (3) money to make repairs to your home (4) money to purchase a new home if your home cannot be repaired (5) a temporary \"FEMA-owned manufactured housing unit\" as a last resort if no other housing options are available.\n\nTo obtain disaster manufactured housing, someone must complete a FEMA application, after which they will be interviewed by a FEMA adjuster, who is similar to an insurance claims adjuster. The adjuster will determine if the damage to the home warrants temporary housing until the home is repaired. After approval, the applicant is placed on a waiting list.\n\nFEMA requires that a property must have running water and power BEFORE a trailer can be installed. Utilities must be available at the site: FEMA will not install trailers in neighborhoods that have no access to running water or electricity.\n\nFEMA subcontracts the installation of FEMA trailers to numerous private contractors. First, a subcontractor installs the trailer itself. After this, other contractors install the access stairs or ramps, furniture, home appliances, and water. Next, the power company must be contacted to install a power line and power meter for the trailer. Finally, a FEMA inspector will inspect the trailer for safety compliance. Only after this lengthy process, will the occupant receive the keys for their trailer.\n\nMany FEMA trailers are installed on the private property of homeowners, usually on lawns and sometimes in driveways next to the house. However, there are also numerous FEMA operated trailer parks where many storm victims have been living.\n\nThe trailer parks operated by FEMA range from small lots, consisting of a dozen trailers in the parking lots of office buildings and supermarkets, to several massive parks occupying large plots of land with hundreds of trailers. In some cases larger parks are surrounded by a chain-link fence and brightly lit. FEMA has also provided police security and controlled access to the larger parks. FEMA trailer parks have developed into small communities, with both the benefits and problems that are involved.\n\nReports of health problems in the FEMA trailers deployed in 2005 had begun to appear by July 2006. Residents reported breathing difficulties, persistent flu-like symptoms, eye irritation, and nosebleeds. The cause was suspected to be high formaldehyde levels in the trailers. Formaldehyde was known to increase risk of cancer, asthma and other respiratory problems, and children and the elderly were at greater risk. As of 2008, FEMA was reported to have received 11,000 health complaints.\n\nScientists suspected that the rush to produce large numbers of trailers might have caused manufacturers to cut corners—using low-cost or poorly prepared materials such as glues and pressed wood in construction of the trailers, and resulting in high levels of formaldehyde emissions. In 2007, tests on a number of FEMA trailers by the Sierra Club showed 83% had levels of formaldehyde in the indoor air at levels above the EPA recommended limit. Congressmen Henry Waxman and Charlie Melancon requested that FEMA test the trailers and address the issue.\n\nThe United States Centers For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) performed indoor air quality testing for formaldehyde in some of the units. On February 14, 2008, the CDC published a preliminary report confirming that potentially hazardous levels of formaldehyde were found in many of the travel trailers and manufactured homes provided by FEMA. In July 2008, researchers conducting a federally funded analysis reported that the toxic levels of formaldehyde were found in 42% of the trailers tested, and that they were attributable to faulty construction practices and the use of substandard building materials.\n\nAs a result, FEMA modified its specifications for emergency housing, requiring that units be larger and better ventilated. Construction of \"manufactured homes\" provided in New Jersey in 2012 was regulated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Researchers are also investigating possibilities for better disaster housing alternatives.\n\nOn March 25, 2006, FEMA issued a news release requesting residents to call the FEMA Trailer Hotline to schedule removal of unneeded FEMA trailers after Katrina and Rita-related use.\n\nIn May 2009, FEMA sent eviction notices to residents in Mississippi who were living in FEMA trailers, sparking protests that the lack of available housing would result in them facing homelessness. Awareness of health concerns did not deter some residents, one of whom commented that \"A dry roof over a toxic trailer beats no roof at all.\" On May 30, FEMA extended a deadline that would have evicted people from FEMA trailers. A FEMA spokesman said the organization was working with federal, state and local partners to help the residents get long-term housing.\n\nOn June 3, 2009, FEMA announced plans to virtually give away roughly 1,800 mobile homes to 3,400 families displaced by Hurricane Katrina who were living in government-provided housing along the Gulf Coast.\n\nIn 2010, the General Services Administration began holding mass public auctions of returned FEMA trailers. Units were marked with stickers that identified them as not suitable for housing, and buyers were required to sign a waiver agreeing that trailers would not be used as housing, and that new owners would be informed of the risks if the units were resold. The stickers are easy to remove, and Katrina FEMA trailers have been widely resold without any warning of possible health hazards. As many as 130,000 trailers are reported to have gone into the resale market, often in disaster zones and other places where there is strong demand for low-cost housing.\n\nIn Alabama and other parts of the South, after tornadoes caused widespread destruction in 2011, post-Katrina trailers were being sold for between $2,000 and $4,000 each. FEMA trailers have been sold to oil-field workers in areas such as North Dakota, where housing is in short supply. Trailers were also distributed to Native American reservations, including the Mescalero Apache in New Mexico, Standing Rock Sioux in North Dakota and South Dakota, the Cherokee in Oklahoma and the Oglala Sioux in South Dakota.\n\nIt is possible to determine whether a trailer was originally one of the Hurricane Katrina trailers by checking the vehicle's VIN. A number of resources have been suggested for those concerned about a FEMA trailer.\n\nAs of 2012, U.S. District Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt of New Orleans approved a $42.6 million class-action lawsuit settlement. Plaintiffs, who included roughly 55,000 residents of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Texas, had alleged that the FEMA trailers emitted hazardous levels of the toxic chemical formaldehyde. The defendants included two dozen manufacturers who built mobile homes for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), including Gulf Stream Coach Inc., Forest River Inc., Vanguard LLC and Monaco Coach Corp. A separate $5.1 million settlement dealt with claims against FEMA contractors including Shaw Environmental Inc., Bechtel Corp., Fluor Enterprises Inc. and CH2M Hill Constructors Inc., who were responsible for installing and maintaining the units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16462691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16462691", "title": "Fred Hargesheimer", "text": "Fred Hargesheimer\n\nMajor Fred Hargesheimer (May 7, 1916 – December 23, 2010) was a former pilot of the United States Army Air Forces who was shot down during World War II over Papua New Guinea in June 1943. He later became a philanthropist who helped out the village that had hidden him from the Japanese.\n\nHargesheimer was born and raised in Rochester, Minnesota. He earned a BS in Electrical Engineering from Iowa State College in 1940 before moving to Alpine, New Jersey, to work for FM radio pioneer Edwin H. Armstrong.\n\nHargesheimer served with the 8th Photographic Reconnaissance Squadron of the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II. He was flying a Lockheed P-38F-4 on a photo reconnaissance mission on June 5, 1943, over the island of New Britain, Papua New Guinea, when his plane was attacked by a Japanese Ki-45 Nick fighter. Despite his injuries and jammed canopy, he was able to parachute to safety. For the next month he fought to survive in the jungle. He was found by members of the Nakanai tribe after 31 days. They sheltered him for five months in the village of Ea Ea, risking their lives to protect him from being found by Japanese soldiers. He met up with Australian Coastwatchers who moved him inland. On February 5, 1944, Fred, along with other downed airmen, was rescued by the submarine . He was awarded the Purple Heart, the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal, and the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal. After the war, he returned to his hometown of Rochester, Minnesota, where he raised a family of his own.\n\nHargesheimer corresponded with a missionary to learn how the tribe that kept him safe had fared and in 1960 returned to the island. He was told that they needed a school. He came home and raised $15,000 over three years, \"most of it $5 and $10 gifts,\" and then returned with son Richard in 1963 to contract for the construction of the school. The simple four-room schoolhouse became known as the Airmen's Memorial School * . Hargesheimer returned many times for the next 40 years, building a library as well as infrastructure for the village of Ea Ea, now known as Nantabu. From 1970 to 1974 he and his wife, Dorothee, lived there. He was known by the locals as Mastah Preddi, a corruption of Master Freddie. In 2000, he was proclaimed \"Suara Auru,\" or \"Chief Warrior\" in the native language. Hargesheimer returned in 2006 for his last visit. During the trip, he visited the site where the wreckage of his old P-38 had been recently found. Hargesheimer also attended the opening of a new library at the Noau school.\n\nIn 1999, aided by amateur Japanese historians of World War II, he contacted the wife of the man who had shot him down. He had always wondered why the pilot had never taken the time to finish him off when he was parachuting to the ground. By then the man, Mitsugu Hyakutomi of Yamaguchi, Japan, was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. His wife said that her husband had always said that he could never shoot down such defenseless parachuting fliers.\n\nHe died in Lincoln, Nebraska, on December 23, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46742170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46742170", "title": "Gallo-Roman Museum, Tongeren", "text": "Gallo-Roman Museum, Tongeren\n\nThe Gallo-Roman Museum (, , ) is an archeological museum in Tongeren. It is dedicated to the prehistorical times and Roman age of the region in South East Flanders. The museum was established in 1954 and received its modern building in 1994. In 2011, it was awarded as the European Museum of the Year.\n\nIn the 19th century the Royal History and Antiquarian Society of Tongeren had amassed a collection of archaeological discoveries from the area. Some of this collection was then displayed in the city from 1854. In 1937 the Provincial Museum opened in Hasselt where the most important pieces of the Tongeren collection were exhibited. In 1954 the Provincial Gallo-Roman Museum was opened in Tongeren.\n\nThe collection was expanded through donations and digs carried out by the museum itself and the Nationale Dienst voor Opgravingen (National Department for Excavations). After public pressure for a new home for the collection, a new building by architect Alfredo de Gregorio was opened in 1994. This new building with new and expanded exhibition areas resulted in an increase in the number of visitors. The site was further expanded in 2006.\n\nThe permanent exhibition starts with the first humanoids in the region, the Neanderthals. It presents following cultures of hunters and several waves of farmers. The third floor is dedicated to the Gallo-Roman culture located in Tongeren. The exhibition closes with the first signs of Christianity.\nIn 2011, the museum was awarded the European Museum of the Year Award and was the first Belgian museum to receive this award.\n\nIn 2014 the museum was awarded the Museum Prize worth 5,000 euros. The jury praised the way in which \"the Gallo-Roman Museum has been true to the discipline of archaeology in all its forms for many years\". In addition, according to the jury, \"the museum knows how to host exhibitions that reach a lot of the public and establishes a broad pedagogy with attention to different target groups\".\n\nIn 2016, the museum won the Romulus Prize \"for the massive efforts the museum provides to map Rome, Romans and ancient times in our country\". In 2016, the museum won the Romulus Prize \"for the massive efforts the museum provides to map Rome, Romans and ancient times in our country\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7407124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7407124", "title": "Georgios Alogoskoufis", "text": "Georgios Alogoskoufis\n\nGeorgios Alogoskoufis () (born 17 October 1955) is a Professor of Economics at the Athens University of Economics and Business since 1990. He was a member of the Hellenic Parliament from September 1996 till October 2009 and served as Greece's Minister of Economy and Finance from March 2004 till January 2009.\n\nDuring 2004-2008 Greece's economic performance seemed extremely positive. The average growth rate was 4% per annum, unemployment fell from 10.5% in 2004 to 7.7% in 2008 just changing the way of measuring it, and public debt increased from 180 bil euro to 300 bil euro. Alogoskoufis initiated a number of policy reforms, such as the simplification of the Greek tax system such as revoking inheritance taxes for rich people, extensive privatisations, create 700 new government institutions to hire more people to the public section, export promotion, public/private partnerships etc. His supporters point out that problems for the Greek economy appeared after Alogoskoufis was replaced as minister, at the end of 2008, and especially after the change in government in October 2010. These problems appeared because of structural weaknesses in the Greek economy, such as the high public debt that was accumulated during the 1980s, the financial crisis and the partial reversal of the policies that Alogoskoufis pursued, by his successors.\n\nGeorge Alogoskoufis was born in Athens on 17 October 1955.\n\nIn the period in which Alogoskoufis served as the minister for Economy and Finance, he actuated a series of economic structural reforms and fiscal adjustment to contain budget deficits, which, although unpopular, have managed to slash Greece's budget deficit to 2.6% of the gross domestic product. In the same period of time, Greece's gross domestic product has grown with a 4%, maintaining one of the highest growth rates in the Eurozone. Although unemployment had fallen from 11% to 9% in the period between 2004 and 2007, just changing the way of measuring it, it remains one of the highest in Europe.\n\nDuring 2004–2007, corporate and personal income taxes were reduced for rich people from 45% to 40% and increased for poor people from 12% to 29% and the tax system was simplified with the tax reform such as revoking inheritance taxes for rich people. He worked extensively with the private sector and sold over euro 6 billion of government holdings.\n\nAlogoskoufis made a decision to revise GDP upward by 25 percent and was heavily criticized by television network CNN and EU accepted a lower revise.Greek GDP revision was part of the annual catalog of 101 Dumbest Moments in Business.\n\nGeorge Alogoskoufis was pelted with eggs by Greek left wing activists at a meeting held at the London School of Economics on 14 November 2008.The activists threw the eggs as a protest to the current economic policy of the Greek government.\n\n<br>\nAlogoskoufis is the author of five books and has published widely in macroeconomics, international monetary economics and public economics.\n\nOver 40 papers have been published in some of the most prestigious international academic journals including the American Economic Review, the Journal of Political Economy, the Journal of Monetary Economics, the European Economic Review, Economica, the Journal of the Japanese and International Economies, Economic Journal and the Economic Policy. His research focuses on unemployment, inflation, exchange rates, economic growth and monetary and fiscal policy.\n\nHe has given invited lectures in some of the most prestigious universities in Europe, the US and Japan and has presented papers in a number of academic conferences worldwide.\n\n“External Constraints on Macroeconomic Policy: The European Experience” (with Lucas Papademos and Richard Portes), Centre for Economic Policy Research, 1991.\n\n“The crisis of economic policy”, Published by Kritiki Publications and the Athens Institute of Economic Policy Studies, Athens, 1994 (in Greek).\n\n“Unemployment: Choices for Europe, Monitoring European Integration 5” (with Charles Bean, Giuseppe Bertola, Daniel Cohen, Juan Dolado, Gilles Saint-Paul), Centre for Economic Policy Research, 1995.\n\n“The Drachma: From the Phoenix to the Euro” (with Sophia Lazaretou), Published by Livanis Publishing House, 2002 (in Greek).\n\n“Greece after the crisis”, Kastaniotis Publications, 2009 (in Greek).\n\nThe following is a selected list of journal articles by Alogoskoufis.\n\n\nHis PhD. thesis was awarded the R. S. Sayers Prize of the London University for 1981. His book, \"The Drachma: From the Phoenix to the Euro\", was awarded the prize of the Academy of Athens in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "13539697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13539697", "title": "Heathen holidays", "text": "Heathen holidays\n\nIn the modern Pagan new religious movement of Heathenry, various publications identify a number of holidays, to some extent based on medieval references to sacrifices observed in historical Norse paganism or reconstructions of an early Germanic calendar, but frequently also inspired by the \"Wheel of the Year\" popular in Wicca, and sometimes also based on \"ad hoc\" innovation, e.g. the various \"Days of Remembrance\" introduced by \"The Troth\".\n\nAs a minimal consensus, the three great seasonal blots mentioned in Ynglingasaga are recognized by practically all adherents. These are: Winter Nights (in October, in some Icelandic sagas identified with Dísablót), Midwinter (some time in December or January, often identified with Yule) and Sigrblot (some time in summer). Beyond this, the modern Icelandic festival of Þorrablót is sometimes considered a \"pagan holiday\".\n\nSuggestions for rituals suited for these various holidays were published by e.g. Edred Thorsson, \"A Book of Troth\" (1989) and by Kveldulf Gundarsson, \"Teutonic Religion\" (1993). \nJames Chisholm (1989) published a suggestion for Ostara\n\nThe seminal organization of American Heathenry was Asatru Free Assembly, founded in 1974 by Stephen McNallen.\nThe first attempt to provide a \"Germanic\" version of the Wiccan Wheel of the Year was made by McNallen in desktop-published documents between 1975-1976.\n\nThe name \"Yule\" coincides with the Wiccan \"Wheel\" as the name has been taken by Wicca from the Germanic tradition in the first place. \nMcNallen's \"Summer Finding\" later came to be popularly called Ostara both in Wicca and in Asatru.\nFor the remaining items (other than \"Midsummer\"), McNallen sought to replace the Gaelic name used by Wiccans with a Germanic-inspired alternative.\n\nPuryear (2006) constructs an \"eight-spoked Yule, also called \"achtwung\"\", also paralleling the eight holidays in the Wheel of the Year in Wicca, but with slight differences to McNallen's 1970s version:\nDisting, Ostara, Beltaine, Midsummer, Hleifblot, Haustblot, Vetrablot, Yule.\n\nOf these eight names, Ostara, Beltaine, Midsummer and Yule coincide with the Wiccan \"Wheel\". \nThe remaining four, Disting, Hleifblot, Haustblot and Vetrablot, correspond to Wiccan Imbolc, Lughnasadh, Mabon and Samhain, respectively.\n\nPuryear (p. 186) mentions \"Charming of the Plow\" it as an \"alternate name\" for Disting, which he in turn identifies with the \"midwinter sacrifice\"\n\nThe handbook \"Our Troth\" in its second edition, published by The Troth in 2006,\nlikewise lists eight festivals: Yule, Þorrablót, Idis-Þing, Ostara (Sigrblót), Waluburg's Night, Midsummer, Loaf-Fest (Freyfaxi) and Winter-Nights (Alf-Blessing, Idis-Blessing, Frey-Blessing).\nThese eight festivals are not, however, evenly distributed throughout the year as the Wiccan \"Wheel of the Year\".\nThe handbook takes as its starting-point the statement in the \"Heimskringla\"\non the three major holidays, Winter Nights, Yule, and Sigrblót (identified with Ostara), set in October, December and April, respectively.\nMidsummer is added as a fourth festival in the absence of Eddaic evidence because its popularity in modern Scandinavian folklore. The remaining four holidays are listead as the \"lesser blessings\".\nIn addition, \"Our Troth\" cites a number of \"Days of Remembrance\" dedicated to various Eddaic heroes introduced by modern Ásatrú in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "25711353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25711353", "title": "Hospital del Divino Salvador", "text": "Hospital del Divino Salvador\n\nThe Hospital del Divino Salvador was the first hospital established in Mexico City for the treatment of mentally ill women.\n\nIt was founded by José de Sáyago and archbishop Francisco de Aguiar y Seijas by the year of 1687. By the death of the archbishop, the hospital, was sponsored by El Divino Salvador congregation. This congregation was founded in La Casa Profesa of the Society of Jesus.\n\nThe congregation moved the hospital's premises to a better location, in this case a house at La Canoa street (Donceles street) by the year 1700. The congregation maintained the hospital as one of the best of its kind in the treatment of mentally ill women. By the Suppression of the Society of Jesus in 1767 the hospital became part of the Real Patronato, nevertheless the quality of the services given at the hospital were never the same as the ones given by the jesuits.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the Viceroy Felix Berenguer de Marquina decided to redesign the hospital's premises. This works would be completed in 1809. By the independence of Nueva España the hospital passed into the hands of the City and in 1847 to the care of the Sisters of Charity.\n\nIn the year 1910 the women at the hospital were moved to the new General Asylum \"la Castañeda\". The new hospital built under the leadership of Porfirio Díaz in the framework for the celebrations for the first centenary of the Independence of Mexico.\n\nCurrently the building houses offices of the Secretary of Health and the historical record of the institution. The building is still standing in Donceles street at the Historic center of Mexico City.\n\n"}
{"id": "51467619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51467619", "title": "Il Postino (opera)", "text": "Il Postino (opera)\n\nIl Postino is an opera in three acts by Daniel Catán with a Spanish libretto by the composer. Based on the novel \" Ardiente paciencia\" by Antonio Skármeta and the film \"Il Postino\" by Michael Radford, the work contains elements of drama and comedy, integrating themes of love and friendship along with political and spiritual conflict. The opera premiered at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion by Los Angeles Opera on 23 September 2010.\n\nSet on a small Italian island, exiled Chilean poet Pablo Neruda receives so much fan mail that a personal postman, Mario Ruoppolo, is hired to deliver his letters. Mario, smitten by Beatrice Russo, turns to Pablo for help writing poetry that would help him win the heart of the woman he longs for. Soon after, Mario and the barmaid fall in love and wed. In the third act, influenced by Pablo's works, Mario begins writing political poems and while reciting at a communist demonstration, violence breaks out and he receives a gunshot wound, killing him.\n\n\"Il Postino\" was commissioned by Los Angeles Opera who co-produced the premiere production with the Theater an der Wien in Vienna and Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris. Daniel Catán wrote the role of Pablo Neruda for Plácido Domingo, who sang it at the Los Angeles premiere and in subsequent performances in Vienna and Paris.\n\n\"Il Postino\" was the fifth and last of Daniel Catán's operas and the first one for which he had also written the libretto. His route to creating the work began when he first saw the 1994 film \"Il Postino\" and thought it would make a good opera. However, at the time he was in the midst of composing \"Florencia en el Amazonas\" and then received a commission from Houston Grand Opera for his fourth opera \"\" which premiered in 2004. After completing that work, he returned to the \"Postino\" project. In an interview shortly before the premiere Catán said:\nIt's rare that an idea I had 15 years ago resurfaces, then I take it on, because one changes so much in that time. But when I came back to this idea, in fact I was still interested in it, but for different reasons. Instead of identifying with the Mario character, with the young aspiring poet, in fact now I could see the story from the other point of view, which was of the older poet.\n\nDiscussions with Plácido Domingo who had become the General Director of Los Angeles Opera in 2003 led to a commission from the company which was announced in 2005. The premiere was to have taken place in the 2009 season starring Domingo as the poet Neruda and Rolando Villazón as Mario. However, financial difficulties at Los Angeles Opera caused the postponement of the premiere until the following season. In the interim, Villazón, who was recovering from surgery on his vocal chords, withdrew from the production and was eventually replaced by Charles Castronovo.\nThe opera finally premiered on 23 September 2010 as the opening production of the 2010 season. It was conducted by Grant Gershon and directed by Ron Daniels with sets and costumes designed by Riccardo Hernandez. The staging also included projections designed by Philip Bussmann that created a Mediterranean atmosphere and at various points showed old footage of political unrest in Chile and a blackboard with poetry written on it. Following the premiere, the Chilean government conferred the on Daniel Catán, Antonio Skármeta, Plácido Domingo and Cristina Gallardo-Domâs who sang the role of Neruda's wife Matilde.\n\nThe Los Angeles production ran for six performances, ending on 16 October and was filmed for a later broadcast on PBS television. The following December the production went to Vienna's Theater an der Wien with largely the same cast, including Domingo as Neruda. He also sang the role when the production travelled to the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris in June 2011 and to Santiago, Chile, in July 2012. Domingo was to have sung the role in July 2013 at the Teatro Real in Madrid, again in the same production, but was forced to withdraw when he suffered a pulmonary embolism and was replaced by the Spanish tenor Vicente Ombuena. Ombuena also sang the role of Neruda when the production travelled to Mexico City's Palacio de Bellas Artes for the opera's Mexico premiere in October 2011.\n\n\"Il Postino\" had its US East Coast premiere in a separate production at the Prince Music Theater in Philadelphia in May 2012, performed by Center City Opera Theater, a chamber opera company. On that occasion the orchestral scoring was reduced to 21 players. The opera was also given a new production in July 2016 performed by Opera Saratoga in Saratoga Springs, New York. Student performances have included the University of Houston's Moores School of Music in 2011 and the Mannes School of Music in 2014 (the opera's New York City premiere).\n\nIn writing the libretto, Catán followed the plot of the Michael Radford's Italian film \"Il Postino\" (and its attendant anachronisms) quite faithfully, but he also used Antonio Skármeta's 1985 novel \"Ardiente paciencia\" (on which the film had been based) to develop the characterization of Pablo Neruda. The actor Massimo Troisi, who played the title role in the film and died shortly after it was completed, owned the rights to the screenplay and had willed them to his five siblings. Once Catán had decided on the \"Postino\" project, he visited each of them personally to secure the adaptation rights rather than relying on lawyers. According to Catán's son, he had almost completely formulated the characterisations of the principal singers before he began the actual composition, and the libretto manuscripts contained relatively few revisions.\n\nThe entirely fictional story of Neruda and his postman is told in both the film and Skármeta's novel. However, there are several key differences between the novel and both the film and the opera. \"Ardiente paciencia\" is set in Chile during the rise and fall of the Allende Government in the early 1970s with Neruda and his wife Matilde living in their house at Isla Negra, on the Chilean coast. The film and opera move the locale from Chile to a fictional Italian island and the time to the early 1950s. Although Neruda and Matilde (who were not yet married) did sojourn to Italy during his exile from Chile and stayed on the Isle of Capri on-and-off between 1951 and 1952, they were guests in Edwin Cerio's villa there and did not have their own house. At that time Neruda had not yet achieved the world-wide fame as a poet that he had by the early 1970s when he won the Nobel Prize for Literature. The poems quoted in both the film and the opera were written several years after he returned to Chile. In the opera, Neruda's Act 1 aria \"Desnuda\" uses the text from \"Mañana XXVII\" in \"Cien Sonetos de Amor\" which was first published in 1959.\n\nLike all of Catán's previous operas, the libretto was in Spanish. In a 2008 essay published in \"Revista de Musicología\", he wrote of his dream to establish a strong tradition of Spanish-language opera, which was still lacking in both Spain and Latin America. At the time, he was working on the libretto for \"Il Postino\" and wrote:\nIs it not ironic, for example, that it has been the Italian cinema that rescued Neruda with \"Il Postino\"? I will now take back \"Il Postino\". I will make it into an opera and will restore our language to it. Why rescue when we can create?\nThe language choice drew a mixed reaction from the critics. The \"Los Angeles Times\" critic found it \"peculiar\" given the Italian setting. Ronald Blum writing for the Associated Press thought the mismatch was \"a bit jarring\" but found that the effect dissipated as the opera unfolded. The critic for the British magazine \"Opera\" wrote \"The only real problem is that Catán, for some inexplicable reason, keeps the story set in Italy-despite writing the opera in Spanish. [...] Likewise, Skármeta's novel is set not in Italy but on an island off the coast of Chile. Where was the dramaturge during all of this?\"\n\nSetting: The fictional Italian island of Cala di Sotto during the 1950s\n\n\"Prelude\"<br>\nDi Cosimo, a politician running for office on the island, sings a nationalist song. Soon after, an announcement is made on the radio stating that Pablo Neruda, a great Chilean poet, has arrived in Rome. Exiled, he will live on the island of Cala di Sotto.\n\n\"Scene 1: \"No papá, no hay agua\"\"<br>\nIn his bedroom, Mario describes to his father how much he dislikes working as a fisherman. He then reveals that he has found a new job working as a postman.\n\n\"Scene 2: \"Tus manos…\"\"<br>\nThe following day, Pablo is reading on the patio when is wife Matilde arrives. Embracing her, he poetically sings \"Desnuda\" (\"Nude\"), relating her and her body to the beauty of nature.\n\n\"Scene 3: \"Buenos dias…su correo\"\"<br>\nMario arrives, delivering Pablo's mail. Catching the couple in an embrace, Pablo quickly turns to Mario and collects his mail, meeting him for the first time.\n\n\"Scene 4: \"Mujer! Mujer!\"\"<br>\nAt the post office, Mario sits with postmaster Giorgio, examining the letters to be delivered to Pablo. Discovering that most of the letters are from women, Mario tells Giorgio that he bought one of Pablo's books and wants to have it signed so that he can impress others.\n\n\"Scene 5: \"Correo! Correo!\"\"<br>\nDuring the next delivery, Mario tells Pablo that he wants to become a poet so that he too can have women fall in love with him. Pablo tells him to observe the world around him and discover its metaphors. Using the sea as an example, Pablo sings \"Oda al mar\" (\"Ode to the Sea\"), describing the blue water as it spills and moves. Mario soon begins to understand Pablo's words in the duet \"Metaforas\" (\"Metaphors\").\n\n\"Scene 6: Romanza\"<br>\nThe barmaid Beatrice Russo is introduced, singing a romanza while working in a local café. Mario, taken by her beauty, approaches her. The two play a game of table soccer and Beatrice beats him handily. Mario learns her name.\n\n\"Scene 7: \"Don Pablo!\"\"<br>\nPablo arrives at the docks. Mario, holding a delivery of mail, runs to him and confesses that he is in love with Beatrice. Pablo laughs. Mario asks him for help writing a poem to impress Beatrice but Pablo declines as he does not know her. Giving Pablo his mail, Mario declines payment.\n\n\"Scene 8: \"Ya duerme el mar\"\"<br>\nIn chorus, the dockworkers sing of the sea.\n\n\"Scene 1: \"Que haces?\"\"<br>\nBeatrice is in her bedroom thinking of Mario. Her aunt, Donna Rosa enters the room and is displeased by her niece's contact with the younger man. Beatrice, falling in love with Mario, tells her aunt that he spoke to her in metaphors. Soon they argue over Mario's intentions and Donna Rosa finds a letter from Mario. She takes it away and leaves the room.\n\n\"Scene 2: \"Tus manos...\"\"<br>\nDi Cosimo, seeking votes at the next election, promises to bring water to the island. Giorgio and others complain that he's been promising this for years. Di Cosimo calls them liars and states that it wasn't him making the promises. Excited at the prospect of workers coming to the island and becoming customers, Donna Rosa pledges her support for Di Cosimo.\n\n\"Scene 3: Love Duet #1\"<br>\nMario approaches Beatrice in the evening, singing more metaphors in an effort to impress her. Influenced by her aunt, Beatrice is reluctant to accept Mario's advances.\n\n\"Scene 4: \"Te caíste de la cama\"\"<br>\nIn his next delivery, Mario brings Pablo an audio reel. Pablo gives him a book that will help him with his metaphors, then introduces him to a sound recorder. The device plays, telling them that Pablo's book is a big success in Chile and will be re-printed.\n\n\"Scene 5: \"Léamela Padre\"\"<br>\nDistressed, Donna Rosa runs to the priest and gives him Mario's letter to read. Upon hearing the letter, Donna Rosa is horrified by the contents of the poetry written to Beatrice.\n\n\"Scene 6: Love Duet #2\"<br>\nMario and Beatrice meet in the night, sharing an embrace. With a gun, Donna Rosa comes looking for them, calling out for her niece. Mario and Beatrice share a kiss and Beatrice runs away.\n\n\"Scene 7: \"Chile la sangre de tus hijos\"\"<br>\nPablo receives a letter from Chile telling him that there is more bloodshed. Singing \"Chile la sangre de tus hijos\" (\"Chile, blood of your children\") Pablo laments the lives lost and the difficulties back at home. Matilde enters the room and Pablo shares his grief. Mario arrives, wanting to speak to Pablo but waits as the couple embraces. Exchanging their affection, Pablo and Matilde sing \"Comprendo\" (\"I Understand\").\n\n\"Scenes 8 and 9: \"Señor Neruda!\"\"<br>\nDonna Rosa cries out Pablo's name. In a panic, Mario runs into Pablo's room and hides. Donna Rosa arrives with a gun and tells Pablo that Mario is poisoning her niece with metaphors. She threatens to shoot Mario if he meets with Beatrice again, then leaves.\n\n\"Scene 10: Love Duet #3\"<br>\nAlone, Mario sings out to Beatrice. Beatrice responds and they soon meet, sharing their love for each other. Donna Rosa tries to pursue them unsuccessfully.\n\n\"Scene 11: \"The Wedding\"\"<br>\nMario and Beatrice wed. After the wedding, the guests gather at a table and celebrate. Donna Rosa, unhappy with the marriage, greets Mario hesitantly. Mario's father sings a song which is followed by a speech given from Mario. Pablo sings a song for the newlywed couple and the guests celebrate.\n\n\"Prelude and Scene 1: \"No, Don Pablo\"\"<br>\nPablo and Matilde are preparing for their trip home to Chile. Pablo offers Mario money as he will soon be unemployed. Reluctantly he accepts and the two say goodbye.\n\n\"Scenes 2–5: \"Qué Pasa\"\"<br>\nWorkers are laying the water pipe promised by Di Cosimo. Giorgio arrives and tells Mario that Pablo is giving an award in Russia. Di Cosimo's thugs arrive, passing out flyers. Word comes that Pablo is in Paris. In an interview Pablo states that he misses the island but not the people, causing some to get upset and feel forgotten.\n\nNews comes that Di Cosimo has won the election. Soon he arrives, notifying Donna Rosa that all water work is being aborted, breaking his promise. Mario approaches Di Cosimo and is threatened.\n\n\"Scene 6: Scene and Aria \"Más bien era yo\"\"<br>\nAn impersonal letter arrives from Pablo's secretary asking Mario to send the man's remaining items to Chile. Hurt, Mario feels forgotten and sings \"Más bien era yo\" (\"Rather it was me\"). Beatrice tells Mario that she's pregnant.\n\n\"Scene 7: \"Comprendo\"\"<br>\nReturning to Pablo's home, Mario finds the recording of him and Pablo. On the recording Pablo sings \"Comprendo\" (\"I Understand\").\n\n\"Scene 8: \"Estás seguro?\"\"<br>\nMario retrieves the audio recorder. He and Giorgio connect the device to a battery and travel the island, collecting its sounds.\n\n\"Scene 9:\"Es Curioso\"\"\nTime passes and Pablo and Matilde return to the island. Looking for Mario, they find Beatrice where she explains that Mario was invited to read his poetry at a communist demonstration. The event turned violent and Mario was shot and killed.\n\n\"Duet: \"Querido Don Pablo\" (Mario's Farewell)\"<br>\nPablo is given a recording of Mario. In the recording Mario thanks Pablo for bringing poetry into his life.\n\nThe critics writing on both the American and the Austrian premieres remarked on the \"unapologetically\" melodious nature of the score and noted that it was reminiscent of Puccini, both in the instrumental colors of the orchestral interludes and in the arias, singling out particularly the writing for the woodwinds and strings. In his review of the Austrian premiere George Loomis wrote that like Catán's previous operas, the score was marked by a \"musical shapeliness\" and a \"capacity to soar and [...] move the listener.\" He also summarized the mixed critical reception in the German and Austrian press noting that the \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" pronounced it \"a triumph\" but \"Die Presse\" described the opera's story as \"smothered in operatic sugar-icing\", with more than one review describing it as kitsch. Anne Midgette wrote in \"The Washington Post\" that \"the language spoken by Catán's lovely score is universal: the safely melodious terrain of international opera.\" It was a view echoed by Joshua Kosman in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" who described the opera as a \"lovely though limited\" work and wrote that \"operagoers who complain that they don't write 'em like they used to can take comfort from \"Il Postino\"\".\n\n\nFilmed during the premiere run with the original cast in October 2010, this recording was first broadcast in 2011 as part of the PBS television series Great Performances and was released on DVD the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "35408342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35408342", "title": "International Crimes Tribunal of Bangladesh Timeline", "text": "International Crimes Tribunal of Bangladesh Timeline\n\nThe International Crimes Tribunal (ICT) is an ongoing tribunal in Bangladesh that aims to investigate and administer justice regarding the war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and crimes against peace committed by Pakistan army and their local collaborators Razakar, Al-Badr, Al-Shams during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. In 2008's public election, one of the principal electoral manifesto of the Awami League was to initiate the trial process of war criminals. As promised, a member of parliament from Awami League submitted the proposal of the trial of war criminals on 29 January 2009 in National Parliament and the proposal was accepted unanimously. Finally after 39 years of Liberation of Bangladesh, on the 25th March, the tribunal, attorney panel and investigation organization was formed for the trial of the ones accused of war crimes.\n\nThe timeline of this tribunal has been enumerated in this article.\n\n"}
{"id": "56145055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56145055", "title": "Jaane Kyun De Yaaron", "text": "Jaane Kyun De Yaaron\n\nJaane Kyun De Yaaron is a Bollywood film written and directed by Akshay Anand and produced by Vishal Bhatia and Raghu Raja. It stars Raghu Raja, Abhishek Sharma, Chetna Pande, Heena Panchal in lead roles. The film was released on 16 February 2018.\n\nThe film is a story about Two boys with the dreams to change their ordinary lives change the entire corruption system as they take a stand against police brutality with the little help of a benevolent guardian.\n\n\nThe music for the film is composed by Satya Manik Afsar, Deepak Agrawal, Chand Sadhwani and Sikandar Singh Kahlon. The lyrics are penned by Deepak Agrawal, Atique Allahbadi, Manik Batra and Prashant Ingole. The music of the film is acquired by the music label T-Series.\n"}
{"id": "10530908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10530908", "title": "Jan Janszoon", "text": "Jan Janszoon\n\nJan Janszoon van Haarlem, commonly known as Murat Reis the Younger (c. 1570 – c. 1641), was a Dutch pirate who \"turned Turk\" after being captured by a Moorish state in 1618. He began serving as a Barbary pirate, one of the most famous of the 17th-century \"Salé Rovers\". Together with other corsairs, he helped establish the independent Republic of Salé at the city of that name, serving as the first President and Grand Admiral. He also served as Governor of Oualidia.\n\nJan Janszoon van Haerlem was born in Haarlem in 1575, which was in Holland, then a province ruled by the Habsburg Monarchy. The Eighty Years War between Dutch rebels and the Spanish Empire under king Philip II had started seven years before his birth; it lasted all his life. Little is known of his early life. He married Soutgen Cave in 1595 and had two children with her, Edward and Lysbeth. \n\nAfter her death, around 1600 he married or had a union with Margarita, a Moorish woman in Cartagena, Spain. They had four sons together: Abraham, Anthony, Phillip, and Cornelis.\n\nIn 1600, Jan Janszoon began as a Dutch privateer sailing from his home port of Haarlem, working for the state with letters of marque to harass Spanish shipping during the Eighty Years' War. Janszoon overstepped the boundaries of his letters and found his way to the semi-independent port states of the Barbary Coast of north Africa, whence he could attack ships of every foreign state: when he attacked a Spanish ship, he flew the Dutch flag; when he attacked any other, he became an Ottoman Captain and flew the red half-moon of the Turks or the flag of any of various other Mediterranean principalities. During this period, he had abandoned his Dutch family.\n\nJanszoon was captured in 1618 at Lanzarote (one of the Canary Islands) by Barbary corsairs and taken to Algiers as a captive. There he \"turned Turk\", or Muslim. Some historians speculate that the conversion was forced. Janszoon himself, however, tried very hard to convert his fellow Europeans who were Christian to become Muslim and was a passionate Muslim missionary. The Ottoman Turks maintained a precarious measure of influence on behalf of their Sultan by openly encouraging the Moors to advance themselves through piracy against the European powers, which long resented the Ottoman Empire. After Janszoon's conversion to Islam and the ways of his captors, he sailed with the famous corsair Sulayman Rais, also known as Slemen Reis. (He was a Dutchman named De Veenboer, whom Janszoon had known before his capture and who, had chosen to convert to Islam). They were accompanied by Simon de Danser. But, because Algiers had concluded peace with several European nations, it was no longer a suitable port from which to sell captured ships or their cargo. So, after Sulayman Rais was killed by a cannonball in 1619, Janszoon moved to the ancient port of Salé and began operating from it as a Barbary corsair.\n\nIn 1619, Salé Rovers declared the port to be an independent republic free from the Sultan. They set up a government that consisted of 14 pirate leaders, and elected Janszoon as their President. He would also serve as the Grand Admiral, known as Murat Reis, of their navy. The Salé fleet totaled about eighteen ships, all small because of the very shallow harbor entrance.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful siege of the city, the Sultan of Morocco acknowledged its semi-autonomy. Contrary to popular belief that Sultan Zidan Abu Maali had reclaimed sovereignty over Salé and appointed Janszoon the Governor in 1624, the Sultan acknowledged Janszoon's election as president by formally appointing him as his ceremonial governor.\n\nUnder Janszoon's leadership, business in Salé thrived. The main sources of income of this republic remained piracy and its by-trades, shipping and dealing in stolen property. Historians have noted Janszoon's intelligence and bravery, which were expressed in his leadership ability. He was forced to find an assistant to keep up, resulting in the hiring of a fellow countryman from The Netherlands, Mathys van Bostel Oosterlinck, who would serve as his Vice-Admiral.\n\nJanszoon had become very wealthy from his income as pirate admiral, payments for anchorage and other harbor dues, and the brokerage of stolen goods. The political climate in Salé worsened toward the end of 1627, so Janszoon quietly moved his family and his entire operation back to semi-independent Algiers.\n\nJanszoon became bored by his new official duties from time to time and again sail away on a pirate adventure. In 1622, Janszoon and his crews sailed into the English Channel with no particular plan but to try their luck there. When they ran low on supplies, they docked at the port of Veere, Zeeland, under the Moroccan flag, claiming diplomatic privileges from his official role as Admiral of Morocco (a very loose term in the environment of North African politics). The Dutch authorities could not deny the two ships access to Veere because, at the time, several peace treaties and trade agreements existed between the Sultan of Morocco and the Dutch Republic. During Janszoon's anchorage there, the Dutch authorities brought his Dutch first wife and children to the port to try to persuade him to give up piracy. Such strategies utterly failed with the men. Janszoon and his crews left port with many new Dutch volunteers, despite a Dutch prohibition of piracy.\n\nWhile in Morocco, Janszoon worked to secure release of Dutch captives from other pirates and prevent their being sold into slavery.\n\nKnowledgeable of several languages, while in Algiers he contributed to the establishment of the Franco-Moroccan Treaty of 1631 between French King Louis XIII and Sultan Abu Marwan Abd al-Malik II.\n\nIn 1627 Janszoon captured the island of Lundy in the Bristol Channel and held it for five years, using it as a base for raiding expeditions.\n\nIn 1627, Janszoon used a Danish \"slave\" (most likely a crew member captured on a Danish ship taken as a pirate prize) to pilot him and his men to Iceland. There they raided the fishing village of Grindavík. Their takings were meagre, some salted fish and a few hides, but they also captured twelve Icelanders and three Danes who happened to be in the village. When they were leaving Grindavík, they managed to trick and capture a Danish merchant ship that was passing by means of flying a false flag.\n\nThe ships sailed to Bessastaðir, seat of the Danish governor of Iceland, to raid but were unable to make a landing - it is said they were thwarted by cannon fire from the local fortifications (\"Bessastaðaskans\") and a quickly mustered group of lancers from the Southern Peninsula. They decided to sail home to Salé, where they sold their captives as slaves.\n\nTwo corsair ships from Algiers, possibly connected to Janszoon's raid, came to Iceland on July 4 and plundered there. Then they sailed to Vestmannaeyjar off the southern coast and raided there for three days. Those events are collectively known in Iceland as \"Tyrkjaránið\" (the Turkish abductions), as the Barbary states were nominally a part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAccounts by enslaved Icelanders who spent time on the corsair ships claimed that the conditions for women and children were normal, in that they were permitted to move throughout the ship, except to the quarter deck. The pirates were seen giving extra food to the children from their own private stashes. A woman who gave birth on board a ship was treated with dignity, being afforded privacy and clothing by the pirates. The men were put in the hold of the ships, and had their chains removed once the ships were far enough from land. Despite popular claims about treatment of captives, Icelander accounts do not mention that slaves were raped. Guðríður Símonardóttir and a few other captives are known to have returned to Iceland.\n\nHaving sailed for two months and with little to show for the voyage, Janszoon turned to a captive taken on the voyage, a Roman Catholic named John Hackett, for information on where a profitable raid could be made. The Protestant residents of Baltimore, a small town in West Cork, Ireland, were resented by the Roman Catholic native Irish because they were settled on lands confiscated from the O'Driscoll clan. Hackett directed Janszoon to this town and away from his own. Janszoon sacked Baltimore on June 20, 1631, seizing little property but taking 108 captives, whom he sold as slaves in North Africa. Janszoon was said to have released the Irish, and taken only English captives. Shortly after the sack, Hackett was arrested and hanged for his crime. \"Here was not a single Christian who was not weeping and who was not full of sadness at the sight of so many honest maidens and so many good women abandoned to the brutality of these barbarians\". Only two of the villagers ever returned to their homeland.\n\nMurat Reis chose to make large profits by raiding Mediterranean islands such as the Balearic Islands, Corsica, Sardinia, and the southern coast of Sicily. He often sold most of his merchandise in Tunis, where he befriended the Dey. He is known to have sailed the Ionian Sea. He fought the Venetians near the coasts of Crete and Cyprus with a corsair crew consisting of Dutch, Moriscos, Arab, Turkish and elite Janissaries.\n\nIn 1635, near the Tunisian coast, Murat Reis was outnumbered and surprised by a sudden attack. He and many of his men were captured by the Knights of Malta. He was imprisoned in the island's notorious dark dungeons. He was mistreated and tortured, and suffered ill health due to his time in the dungeon. In 1640 he barely escaped after a massive Corsair attack, which was carefully planned by the Dey of Tunis in order to rescue their fellow sailors and Corsairs. He was greatly honored and praised upon his return in Morocco and the nearby Barbary States.\n\nAfter Janzsoon returned to Morocco in 1640, he was appointed as Governor of the great fortress of Oualidia, near Safi. He resided at the Castle of Maladia. In December 1640, a ship arrived with a new Dutch consul, who brought Lysbeth Janszoon van Haarlem, Janszoon's daughter by his Dutch wife, to visit her father. When Lysbeth arrived, Janszoon \"was seated in great pomp on a carpet, with silk cushions, the servants all around him\". She saw that Murat Reis had become a feeble, old man. Lysbeth stayed with her father until August 1641, when she returned to Holland. Little is known of Janszoon thereafter; he likely retired at last from both public life and piracy. The date of his death remains unknown.\n\nIn 1596, by an unknown Dutch woman, Janszoon's first child was born, Lysbeth Janszoon van Haarlem.\n\nAfter becoming a privateer, Janszoon met an unknown woman in Cartagena, Spain, who he would marry. The identity of this woman is historically vague, but the consensus is that she was of multi-ethnic background, considered \"Moorish\" in Spain. Historians have claimed her to be nothing more than a concubine, others claim she was a Muslim Mudéjar who worked for a Christian noble family, and other claims have been made that she was a \"Moorish princess.\" Through this marriage, Janszoon had four children: Abraham Janszoon van Salee (b.1602), Philip Janszoon van Salee (b. 1604), Anthony Janszoon van Salee (b.1607), and Cornelis Janszoon van Salee (b. 1608).\n\nIt is speculated that Janszoon married for a third time to the daughter of Sultan Moulay Ziden in 1624.\n\nIn 2009, a play based on Janszoon's life as a pirate, \"Jan Janszoon, de blonde Arabier\", written by Karim El Guennouni toured The Netherlands. \"Bad Grandpa: The Ballad of Murad the Captain\" is a poem about Janszoon published in 2007.\n\nJanszoon was also known as Murat Reis the Younger. His Dutch names are also given as Jan Jansen and Jan Jansz; his adopted name as Morat Rais, Murat Rais, Morat; \"Little John Ward\", \"John Barber\", \"Captain John\", \"Caid Morato\" were some of his pirate names. \"The Hairdresser\" was a nickname of Janszoon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70096", "title": "Joe Satriani", "text": "Joe Satriani\n\nJoseph Satriani (born July 15, 1956) is an American instrumental rock guitarist and multi-instrumentalist. Early in his career, Satriani worked as a guitar instructor, with many of his former students achieving fame, such as Steve Vai, Larry LaLonde, Rick Hunolt, Kirk Hammett, Andy Timmons, Charlie Hunter, Kevin Cadogan, and Alex Skolnick; he then went on to have a successful solo music career. He is a 15-time Grammy Award nominee and has sold over 10 million albums, making him the biggest-selling instrumental rock guitarist of all time.\n\nIn 1988, Satriani was recruited by Mick Jagger as lead guitarist for his first solo tour. Satriani briefly toured with Deep Purple as the lead guitarist, joining shortly after the departure of Ritchie Blackmore in November 1993. He has worked with a range of guitarists during the G3 tour, which he founded in 1995. Satriani has been the guitarist for the supergroup Chickenfoot since joining the band in 2008.\n\nSatriani was born in Westbury, New York, the descendant of Italian immigrants. His paternal grandparents were from Piacenza and Bobbio, while his maternal grandparents were from Bari. He was inspired to play guitar at age 14, after hearing of the death of Jimi Hendrix. He has been said to have heard the news during football practice, where he then announced to his coach that he was quitting to become a guitarist. In 1974, Satriani studied music with jazz guitarist Billy Bauer and with reclusive jazz pianist Lennie Tristano. The technically demanding Tristano greatly influenced Satriani's playing. Satriani began teaching guitar, with his most notable student at the time being fellow Long Island native Steve Vai (both also went to the same high school). While he was teaching Vai, he was attending Five Towns College for studies in music.\n\nIn 1978, Satriani moved to Berkeley, California, to pursue a music career. Soon after arriving in California, he resumed teaching. His students included Kirk Hammett of Metallica, David Bryson of Counting Crows, Kevin Cadogan from Third Eye Blind, Larry LaLonde of Primus and Possessed, Alex Skolnick of Testament, Rick Hunolt (ex-Exodus), Phil Kettner of Lȧȧz Rockit, Geoff Tyson of T-Ride, Charlie Hunter, David Turin, and Eric Kauschen.\n\nSatriani started playing in a San Francisco-based band called the Squares, where he continued to network and make musical connections (Squares sound man John Cuniberti co-produced his second album). He was invited to join the Greg Kihn Band, who were on the downside of their career, but whose generosity helped Satriani pay off the overwhelming credit-card debt from recording his first album \"Not of This Earth\".\n\nIn 1987, Satriani's second album \"Surfing with the Alien\" produced radio hits and was the first all-instrumental release to chart so highly in many years. The track \"Crushing Day\" was featured on the soundtrack of a low-budget film titled \"It Takes Two\". \"Surfing with the Alien\" is his most acclaimed work, according to aggregator Acclaimed Music. In 1988 Satriani helped produce the EP \"The Eyes of Horror\" for the death metal band Possessed. That same year, he also released an EP titled \"Dreaming #11\", which featured the song \"The Crush of Love\". In 1989, Satriani released the album \"Flying in a Blue Dream\". It was said to be inspired by the death of his father, who died in 1989 during the recording of the album. \"One Big Rush\" featured on the soundtrack to the Cameron Crowe movie \"Say Anything...\". \"The Forgotten Part II\" was featured on a Labatt Blue commercial in Canada in 1993. \"Can't Slow Down\" featured in a car-chase sequence in the Don Johnson-starring show \"Nash Bridges\". \"The Bells of Lal (Part One)\" was featured for an eerie scene in the 1996 Billy Bob Thornton movie \"Sling Blade\", while Carl is sharpening a lawnmower blade to kill the menacing Doyle Hargraves played by Dwight Yoakam.\n\nJoe Satriani also sang backing vocals on the self-titled \"Crowded House\" album. Satriani was a friend of Mitchell Froom.\n\nIn 1992, Satriani released \"The Extremist\", his most commercially successful album to date. Radio stations across the country picked up \"Summer Song\", which got a major boost when Sony used it in a major commercial campaign for their Discman portable CD players. \"Cryin'\", \"Friends\", and the title track were regional hits on radio. In late 1993, Satriani joined Deep Purple as a temporary replacement for departed guitarist Ritchie Blackmore during the band's Japanese tour. The concerts were a success, and Satriani was asked to join the band permanently, but he declined, having just signed a multialbum solo deal with Sony, and Steve Morse took the guitarist slot in Deep Purple.\nIn 1996, Satriani founded the G3, a concert tour intended to feature a trio of guitarists. The original lineup featured Satriani, Vai, and Eric Johnson. The G3 tour has continued periodically since its inaugural version, with Satriani the only permanent member. Other guitarists who have performed in G3 include among others: Yngwie Malmsteen, John Petrucci, Kenny Wayne Shepherd, Robert Fripp, Andy Timmons, Uli Jon Roth, Michael Schenker, Adrian Legg, Paul Gilbert, Steve Morse, and Steve Lukather. In 1998, Satriani recorded and released \"Crystal Planet\", followed up with \"Engines of Creation\", one of his more experimental works featuring the electronica genre. Two shows at the Fillmore West in San Francisco were recorded in December 2000 and released as \"Live in San Francisco\", a two-disc live album and DVD.\n\nSatriani regularly recorded and released evolving music, including \"Strange Beautiful Music\" in 2002 and \"Is There Love in Space?\" in 2004. In May 2005, Satriani toured India for the first time, playing concerts in Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai. In 2006, Satriani recorded and released \"Super Colossal\" and \"Satriani Live!\", another two-disc live album and DVD recorded May 3, 2006, at the Grove in Anaheim, California. In 2006, Satriani signed on as an official supporter of Little Kids Rock, a nonprofit organization that provides free musical instruments and instruction to children in underserved public schools throughout the U.S. Satriani has personally delivered instruments to children in the program through a charity raffle for the organization, and like Steve Vai, sits on its board of directors as an honorary member.\n\nOn August 7, 2007, Epic/Legacy Recordings re-released \"Surfing with the Alien\" to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its release. This was a two-disc set that includes a remastered album and a DVD of a never-before-seen live show filmed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in 1988. Satriani's next album \"Professor Satchafunkilus and the Musterion of Rock\", was released on April 1, 2008. Satriani released a live DVD recording of a concert in Paris titled \"\" and a companion two-CD set on February 2, 2010. In March 2010 Satriani participated with other guitarists in the Experience Hendrix Tribute Tour, performing music written and inspired by Jimi Hendrix.\nOn December 4, 2008, Satriani filed a copyright infringement suit against Coldplay in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Satriani's suit claims that the Coldplay song \"Viva la Vida\" includes \"substantial original portions\" of the Satriani song \"If I Could Fly\" from his 2004 album, \"Is There Love in Space?\". The Coldplay song in question received two Grammy Awards for Song of the Year. Coldplay denied the allegation. An unspecified settlement was reached between the parties.\n\nIn 2009, he played two characters in season three of Adult Swim's \"Metalocalypse\".\n\nIn May 2010, Satriani announced he was about to enter the studio to record a solo album, and dates were released for an autumn tour. He also said that demos had been recorded for a second Chickenfoot album. Satriani released his 13th studio album, \"Black Swans and Wormhole Wizards\", on October 5, 2010.\n\nSatriani released the DVD/Blu-ray of his three-dimensional concert film \"\" on April 24, 2012, after its limited showing in theaters. The film was shot in December 2010 in Montreal and was directed by award-winning filmmakers François and Pierre Lamoureux. Satchurated 3D is the first Blu-ray concert film available with Dolby TrueHD 7.1.\n\nOn May 7, 2013 Satriani released his 14th studio album, titled \"Unstoppable Momentum\". A career retrospective box set titled \"\", which contains remastered editions of every studio album from \"Not of This Earth\" to \"Unstoppable Momentum\", was released on April 22, 2014. A book titled \"Strange Beautiful Music: A Memoir\" was also released to coincide with the release of the box set.\n\nIn August 2014, Satriani participated in the G4 Experience—a week-long guitar camp—with fellow guitarists Paul Gilbert and Andy Timmons, and keyboardist Mike Keneally.\n\nFebruary 2015 has the first dates announced for the upcoming Shockwave World Tour, in support of Satriani's 15th studio album, slated for release in July. \"Shockwave Supernova\" was released on July 24, 2015. The album was conceived after Satriani found himself playing guitar with his teeth a lot during the \"Unstoppable Momentum\" tour, and had a daydream about an alter ego, \"Shockwave Supernova\", making him do it.\n\nOn September 16, 2017, Satriani teased his upcoming 16th studio album, \"What Happens Next\", through social media. The album was released on January 12, 2018. He collaborated with former Deep Purple bassist Glenn Hughes and Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith, two Rock and Roll Hall of Fame members.\n\nOn May 29, 2008, Satriani was revealed to have been involved in a new hard rock band called Chickenfoot with former Van Halen members Sammy Hagar and Michael Anthony, and Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith. The band features Hagar on vocals, Satriani on guitar, Anthony on bass, and Smith on drums. Their eponymous debut album was released on June 5, 2009. The first single and video released was the track \"Oh Yeah\", which was played on \"The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien\" on June 5, 2009. Satriani received a co-writing credit on all the songs on the band's debut album. \"Broken Records\" magazine asked Satriani about his new band, and he enthusiastically mentioned, \"it was great fun\" and it gives him a \"kick in the music bone\" to play with such great talent. He said it felt natural to step back and play more rhythm than solo guitar. Chickenfoot's second album, \"Chickenfoot III\", was released on September 27, 2011. Its first single was the track \"Bigfoot\". In its first week of release, it charted number 9.\n\nSatriani is credited on many other albums, including guitar duties on shock rocker Alice Cooper's 1991 album \"Hey Stoopid\", Spinal Tap's 1992 album \"Break Like the Wind\", Blue Öyster Cult's 1988 album \"Imaginos\", and band members Stu Hamm and Gregg Bissonette's solo albums. He was credited with singing background vocals on the 1986 debut album by Crowded House. In 2003, he played lead guitar on The Yardbirds's release \"Birdland\". In 2006, he made appearances on tracks for Deep Purple vocalist Ian Gillan's solo CD/DVD dual disc \"Gillan's Inn\".\n\nOn Dream Theater's 2007 album \"Systematic Chaos\", Satriani contributed spoken lyrics to the song \"Repentance\". Satriani contributed a guitar solo to Jordan Rudess' 2004 solo release \"Rhythm of Time\". He composed much of the soundtrack for the racing video game \"\" while \"Crowd Chant\" was featured in \"NHL 2K10\" and \"Madden NFL 11\". He has starred in feature films, including 2006 Christopher Guest film \"For Your Consideration\" as the guitarist in the band that played for the late-night show. He appeared as himself in the film \"Moneyball\", playing \"The Star-Spangled Banner\".\n\nThe \"American Dad\" episode \"Why Can't We Be Friends\" featured the song \"Always with Me, Always with You\". The song was also sampled in the Nicki Minaj single \"Right Thru Me\".\n\nSatriani joined Chickenfoot in voicing themselves in the \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" episode \"I am a Pod\".\n\nSatriani is considered a highly technical guitarist, and has been referred to as a top guitar virtuoso. Satriani has mastered many performance techniques on electric guitar, including legato, two-handed tapping and arpeggio tapping, volume swells, harmonics and extreme whammy bar effects. During fast passages, Satriani favors a legato technique (achieved primarily through hammer-ons and pull-offs) that yields smooth and flowing runs. He is also adept at other speed-related techniques such as rapid alternate picking and sweep picking. Satriani was influenced by blues-rock guitar icons such as Jimi Hendrix, Brian May, Eric Clapton, Jimmy Page, Ritchie Blackmore, and Jeff Beck, as well as jazz fusion guitarist Allan Holdsworth.\n\nSatriani has endorsed Ibanez's JS Series guitars, and Peavey's JSX amplifier. Both lines were designed specifically as signature products for Satriani. The Ibanez JS1 (the original JS model) was based on, and replaced, the Ibanez 540 Radius model that Satriani first endorsed. Many of his guitars are made by Ibanez, including the JS1000, and JS1200. These guitars typically feature the DiMarzio PAF Pro (which he used up until 1993 in both the neck and bridge positions), the DiMarzio Fred (which he used in the bridge position from 1993 to 2005), and the Mo' Joe and the Paf Joe (which he uses in the bridge and neck positions, respectively, from 2005 to present day).\n\nThe JS line of guitars is his signature line with the JS1000, JS1200, JS2400, JSBDG, and JS20th using Ibanez's original Edge double locking tremolo bridge. The JS100 and JS120s both use Ibanez's Edge 3 tremolo bridge. The JS1600 is a fixed bridge guitar with no tremolo system. The guitar he was most associated with during the 90s was a chrome-finished guitar nicknamed \"Chrome Boy\". This instrument can be seen on the \"Live in San Francisco\" DVD. However, the guitar used for most of the concert was in fact a lookalike nicknamed \"Pearly,\" which featured Seymour Duncan Pearly Gates pickups.\n\nSatriani uses a number of other JS models such as the JS double neck model, JS700 (primary axe on the self-titled CD and seen on the 1995 tour \"Joe Satriani,\" which features a fixed bridge, P-90 pickups, and a matching mahogany body and neck), JS6/JS6000 (natural body), JS1 (the original JS model), JS2000 (fixed bridge model), a variety of JS100s, JS1000s and JS1200s with custom paint work, and a large amount of prototype JSs. All double locking bridges have been the original Edge tremolo, not the newer models, which point to a more custom guitar than the \"off the shelf\" models. Satriani played a red 7-string JS model, seen in the \"G3 Live in Tokyo\" DVD from 2005. He also has a prototype 24-fret version of the JS—now called the JS-2400—which he has used with Chickenfoot. As of late he has used other prototypes featuring a Sustainer or a JS model with three single coil-sized humbucker pickups.\n\nSatriani's guitars are usually equipped with his signature DiMarzio humbucker pickups, Mo' Joe and PAF Joe, and his 24-fret JS model features a signature single-coil sized humbucker called the Satch Track in the neck position. Some of his guitars are still equipped with the pickup models he favored in the past, the DiMarzio FRED and PAF Pro pickups.\n\nSatriani has used a wide variety of guitar amps, using Marshall for his main amplifier (notably the limited edition blue coloured 6100 LM model) up until 2001, and his Peavey signature series amps, the Peavey JSX, up until his time with Chickenfoot.\nThe JSX began life as a prototype Peavey XXX and developed into the Joe Satriani signature Peavey model. However he still used distortion pedals with the clean channel rather than the built-in overdrive channels. Satriani has used other amplifiers over the years in the studio, such as the Peavey 5150 (used to record the song 'Crystal Planet'), Cornford, and the Mesa/Boogie Mark IIC+ (used to record the song 'Flying in a Blue Dream'), amongst others. He has recently switched to the Marshall JVM series, having used a modified JVM 410H in his Black Swans and Wormhole Wizards tour in 2010 and with Chickenfoot in 2010 and 2011.\n\nThese modified JVM Marshall amps were prototypes for a signature amp that Marshall scheduled for release in 2011. They replaced the reverb with noise gates that eliminate lag when switching channels. The clean channel was replaced by the clean channel of a 6100 LM model, which Satriani likes as an option to use distortion pedals with. The orange od channel and the modern red overdrive channel have been better matched with each other as Satriani claims to prefer the organic overdrive of the JVM over pedals. The red overdrive channel was modified for a beefy rock rather than a nu metal sound. The effect loop has been simplified to be serial only.\n\nSatriani has used many amps in the studio when recording, including the Peavey Classic. He used Marshall heads and cabinets, including live, prior to his Peavey endorsement. Recently Satriani used the JSX head through a Palmer Speaker Simulator. He has released a Class-A 5-watt tube amp called the \"Mini Colossal\". In 2009, Satriani split from Peavey, and returned to using Marshall amps. Live, he has been using a Marshall JVM410JS since 2009.\nHis effects pedals include the Vox wah, Dunlop Cry Baby wah, RMC Wizard Wah, DigiTech Whammy, BK Butler Tube Driver, BOSS DS-1, BOSS CH-1, BOSS CE-2, BOSS DD-2 and a standard BOSS DD-3 (used together to emulate reverb effects), BOSS BF-3, BOSS OC-2, Barber Burn Drive Unit, Fulltone Deja Vibe, Fulltone Ultimate Octave, and Electro-Harmonix POG (Polyphonic Octave Generator), the latter being featured prominently on the title cut to his 2006 \"Super Colossal\". He collaborated with Vox on a range of signature effects stompboxes. These include the \"Satchurator\" and \"Ice 9\" distortions, the \"Time Machine\" delay, and the \"Big Bad Wah.\"\n\nHis 2000 guitar rig has been documented in detail.\n\nSatriani's work frequently makes references to various science fiction stories and ideas. \"Surfing with the Alien,\" \"Back to Shalla-Bal,\" and \"The Power Cosmic 2000\" refer to the comic book character Silver Surfer, while \"Ice 9\" refers to the secret government ice weapon in Kurt Vonnegut's \"Cat's Cradle\". \"Borg Sex\" is a reference to \"Star Trek\", which features a homogeneous cybernetic race known as the Borg. His albums and songs often have other-worldly titles, such as \"Not of this Earth\", \"Crystal Planet\", \"Is There Love in Space?\", and \"Engines of Creation\".\n\nOn the album \"Super Colossal\", the song titled \"Crowd Chant\" was originally called \"Party on the Enterprise\". It would have featured sampled sounds from the \"Starship Enterprise\" from \"\". But as Satriani explained in a podcast, legal issues regarding the samples could not be resolved, and he was unable to get permission to use them. He then removed the sounds from the song and called it \"Crowd Chant\". Its ending theme was inspired by composer Gabriel Fauré's \"Pavane in F-sharp minor, Op. 50\". The song is used as goal celebration music for a number of National Hockey League and Major League Soccer teams including the Minnesota Wild (NHL), New York Islanders (NHL), and New England Revolution (MLS). The song is also used in the 2K Sports hockey video game \"NHL 2k10\".\n\n\"Redshift Riders,\" another song on the \"Super Colossal\" album is, \"...based on the idea that in the future, when people can travel throughout space, they will theoretically take advantage of the cosmological redshift effect so they can be swung around large planetary objects and get across [the] universe a lot faster than normal,\" Satriani said in a podcast about the song. On the album \"Professor Satchafunkilus and the Musterion of Rock\" the song \"I Just Wanna Rock\" is about a giant robot on the run who happens to stumble upon a rock concert.\n\nOriginated by the now-defunct magazine BAM in 1977 as the Bay Area Music Awards, the \"Bammies\" were expanded and renamed in 1998 to honor music across California.\nSatriani has the fourth most Grammy Award nominations (15, after Brian McKnight, Snoop Dogg and Morten Lindberg) of any artist without winning. See further artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40256263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40256263", "title": "List of next general elections", "text": "List of next general elections\n\nThis is a list of the next general elections around the world in democratic polities. The general elections listed are for the government of each jurisdiction. These elections determine the Prime Minister and makeup of the legislature in a parliamentary democracy, or the president and then the legislature in a system where separate votes are taken for different tiers of government.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, general elections are held between every three to five years, with presidential elections sometimes attaining 6 (Mexico, Russia since a 2008 amendment) or 7 years (France's septennat until 2000).\n\nA country's constitution may give elections a fixed timing (i.e. United States, Switzerland, Sweden), while some allow the government to dissolve Parliament and call a new vote up to a certain time limit (United Kingdom, Israel, Japan). Some constitutions may require Parliaments to elect the Head of State under threat of dissolution (Greece). In most countries the election for the representative assembly determines the government.\n\nAll countries in the Americas which directly elect their President, hold the Presidential and the legislative election at the same time. However, most countries in Europe split these elections and schedule them at different times.\n\nInternational standards set a number of rules to judge whether the election is unfair. Some countries hold staged elections, but in most the election's outcome is the result of organized influence, as per social choice theory. Human rights violations include \"compromise of the right to participate in government through free elections\", the right to freedom of association, or the right to free expression. Elections may also be unfair if unlawful political campaign financing favours particular interest groups, or if the law implicitly favors some through this means. Last but not least, media ownership may also create significant media bias.\n\nThe National Democratic Institute also maintains a calendar of general elections.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3605214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605214", "title": "Live Nation (events promoter)", "text": "Live Nation (events promoter)\n\nLive Nation is an American events promoter and venue operator based in Beverly Hills, California. Formed in 1996 by Robert F. X. Sillerman as SFX Entertainment, the company's business was built around consolidating concert promoters into a national company. In 2000, the company was sold to Clear Channel Communications for $4.4 billion, and operated as Clear Channel Entertainment until 2005, when it was spun off as Live Nation.\n\nIn 2010, Live Nation merged with the ticketing company Ticketmaster, forming the larger conglomerate Live Nation Entertainment.\n\nIn 2017, Live Nation reported $30 billion in gross transaction value from primary and secondary ticketing. Live Nation Entertainment produces over 29,500 events in 40 countries each year. In 2017, Live Nation hosted over 86 million on-site consumers at its events and also invested $5.6 billion to put on its events that year.\n\nThe company was originally formed in 1996 as SFX Entertainment, a subsidiary of media executive Robert F. X. Sillerman's SFX Broadcasting. Its business model involved the acquisition of regional concert promoters, consolidating them into a single national company. His first acquisition was Delsener/Slater Entertainment, and bought 50% of Al Haymon's A. H. Enterprises in 1999. Sillerman sold SFX to Clear Channel Communications in 2000 for $4.4 billion; the Clear Channel Entertainment division was spun off in 2005 as Live Nation. In July 2006, Live Nation acquired the House of Blues chain.\n\nIn October 2007, Live Nation reached a 10-year 360 deal with Madonna, under which the company would collaborate on music projects, touring, merchandising, and other facets of her career. In July 2008, Shakira signed an estimated $70–100 million contract with Live Nation.\n\nIn January 2008, Live Nation sold its North American theatrical business (including the Broadway Across America business) to Key Brand Entertainment for $90.4 million. Key Brand Entertainment is a private investment company owned by British theater producer John Gore and led by senior entertainment industry executive Tom McGrath.\n\nIn April 2008, a deal between Jay-Z and Live Nation for $152 million was confirmed. The deal covers financing of Jay-Z's own entertainment venture, live shows, tours and future recordings for the next 10 years. Blueprint 3 was distributed by Atlantic Records, while his label, Roc Nation, is being distributed by Universal Music Group.\n\nIn February 2009, Live Nation announced that it had reached an agreement to merge with the ticket broker Ticketmaster in a $2.5 billion, all-stock deal. The merger was consumnated in early 2010, with both companies becoming divisions of the new parent company Live Nation Entertainment.\n\nIn June 2013, Insomniac Events, a promoter focused on electronic dance music, announced a major \"creative partnership\" with Live Nation, giving the promoter access to Live Nation's resources while remaining an independent company. Live Nation did not take any ownership stake in Insomniac.\n\n1996-2001\n2006 – 2008\n\n2009 – 2012\n\n2013 – Present \n\nLive Nation is currently constructing a physical recording label, Live Nation Artists, which will be a division of Live Nation International Music. The company is expected to become a major rival against Sony Music, Universal Music Group and Warner Music Group with artists such as Madonna, U2, Shakira, Jay-Z and Nickelback.\n\nAs of July 30, 2008, CEO Michael Rapino is considering doing licensing deals on an artist-by-artist basis, a source inside Live Nation said. Under that scenario, Warner Music Group could end up handling the marketing, promotion, and distribution of albums by the very acts that defected from it to join Live Nation: Nickelback and Madonna. \"Rapino wants to outsource everything,\" said a second source close to the situation. \"He doesn't want to build an infrastructure or carry any overhead.\" The move is mirrored after the \"rent-a-system\" model used in Hollywood, whereby one studio produces a movie but licenses all the other functions to another studio that already has a distribution and marketing infrastructure.\n\nLive Nation's talks represented the latest retrenchment from the strategy of former chairman Michael Cohl, who sought to transform the touring giant into a multi-faceted powerhouse, including a record company. News of the potential outsourcing move followed the dismissal of industry veterans Bob Ezrin, Bob Cahill and Bill Hein, all of whom were Artist Nation employees hired by Cohl to create a label infrastructure for Live Nation's newly signed acts. Instead of banking all the upside on album sales, as was once envisioned with these so-called \"360 deals,\" Live Nation would likely collect a less lucrative outsourcing royalty of between 25 percent and 35 percent, based on other industry licensing deals.\nIt would then be responsible for using that money to pay the artist's royalty - a fee that, at the superstar level, can come close to equaling the licensing royalty the company is apt to get from a label.\n\nOn 31 March 2008, it was confirmed that Live Nation signed a 12-year deal with U2 worth an estimated $100 million (£70 million). The deal includes Live Nation controlling the band's merchandise, sponsoring and their official website. In a contractual agreement with Live Nation signed in March 2008, the parties agreed that the band would receive $25 million for 1.6 million shares of the company; as of 17 December 2008, those shares were worth only just over $6 million. It was reported on 18 December 2008 that Live Nation, honoring their financial commitment, bought back the shares at a loss of $19 million. The company had intended to recoup the cost of signing U2 with their most recent album, \"No Line on the Horizon\". \"No Line on the Horizon\" achieved a multi-platinum status in the international market and has sold over 5 million albums to date.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn February 10, 2009, Live Nation and Ticketmaster Entertainment announced that they have entered into a definitive merger agreement to create a combined entity, to be called Live Nation Entertainment. Ticketmaster's press release said Live Nation produces live concerts in 57 countries.\n\nThe proposal has received regulatory approval in Norway and Turkey.\n\nIn October 2009, the United Kingdom's Competition Commission provisionally ruled against the merger with Ticketmaster. On December 22, 2009, the Competition Commission decided to clear the proposed merger.\n\nSeparate regulatory reviews of the proposal continued in the United States and Canada. The United States Department of Justice approved the merger in 2010 subject to review by a federal judge after a 60-day comment period. A condition of the approval, Ticketmaster agreed to license its software to rival Anschutz Entertainment Group, and to sell its subsidiary Paciolan to Comcast Spectacor, Comcast's sporting events subsidiary. The company also agreed not to interfere with competition for the ten-year life of the agreement.\n\nIn 2009, in reaction to a merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster, Bruce Springsteen said \"the one thing that would make the current ticket situation even worse for the fan than it is now would be Ticketmaster and Live Nation coming up with a single system, thereby returning us to a near monopoly situation in music ticketing\".\n\nIn a January 25, 2010 press release, the TicketDisaster.org group—a coalition of consumer rights and anti-trust groups—also issued the following statement about the proposed Live Nation-TicketMaster merger:\n\n\"Despite its \"monopoly-like dominance\" controlling 70 to 80 percent of all concert ticket sales, Ticketmaster is unabashedly seeking to grow its empire - all to the detriment of the average fan. Ticketmaster is now trying to dampen competition by merging with Live Nation, the nation's largest concert promoter and second largest primary ticket seller. That merger is coming under heavy fire from consumer and industry groups and Members of Congress, particularly because of the clear anti-consumer and anti-competitive effects. As the Department of Justice reaches the final round of reviewing this merger, only one question must be answered: will the merger lead to increased prices, poorer service, or less innovation?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46904142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46904142", "title": "Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story", "text": "Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\n\nMartin Luther King and the Montgomery Story is a 16-page comic book about Martin Luther King, Jr., Rosa Parks, and the Montgomery Bus Boycott published in 1957 by the Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR USA). It advocates the principles of nonviolence and provides a primer on nonviolent resistance.\n\nAlthough ignored by the mainstream comics industry, \"The Montgomery Story\" was widely distributed among civil rights groups, churches, and schools. It helped inspire nonviolent protest movements around the Southern United States, and later in Latin America, South Africa, the Middle East, and elsewhere. Over 50 years after its initial publication, the comic inspired the best-selling, award-winning \"March\" trilogy by Georgia Congressman John Lewis.\n\nFollowing the success of the Montgomery Bus Boycott, which FOR USA had helped organize, executive secretary and director of publications Alfred Hassler, and FoR member the Rev. Glenn E. Smiley came up with the idea of using a comic book to bring the story of the bus boycott to a wide audience. (Smiley had been personally active in the bus boycott, and had formed a friendship with Dr. King.) Presenting the comic idea as a way to reach wider audiences (including those with lower reading levels), the group acquired grant funding of $5,000 for the project from the Fund for the Republic. Dr, King himself endorsed the book and even provided a few editorial suggestions.\n\nCartoonist Al Capp was an admirer of Dr. King; his studio produced \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" at no charge, which was co-written by Hassler and Benton Resnik, and drawn by an uncredited artist. (Benton Resnick had been an editor and writer for the Al Capp-owned comics companies Toby Press and Graphic Information Services.) The artist has since been confirmed to be Sy Barry by artist James Romberger. It was published in December 1957 in full-color with a cover price of 10 cents. 250,000 copies were printed.\n\nInstead of the typical distribution network for comics in those days, which were newsstands, pharmacies, and candy stores, \"The Montgomery Story\" was distributed by the Fellowship of Reconciliation among civil rights groups, churches, and schools. It was also promoted in pro-Civil Rights publications such as \"National Guardian\" and \"Peace News\". FoR staff members, particularly Jim Lawson (an African American divinity student at Vanderbilt University) and Glenn Smiley, traveled through the South, giving workshops on nonviolence. They would distribute the comic to younger attendees as something to take with them and study. Some African Americans memorized and destroyed the comic to avoid being lynched for having it in their possession.\n\nAt some point not long after its original publication, FoR produced a Spanish version of the comic for distribution throughout Latin America. Instead of using the same art as the English edition, the Spanish version is a complete copy of the original, drawn by a different artist. 125,000 copies were printed, but only a handful of copies of the Spanish version still exist.\n\nIn 2004 comic book artist, writer and historian Tom Christopher researched the King comic and posted the article, which included art samples of both the English and Spanish versions, on his website. Christopher had previously documented the publication of \"All-Negro Comics\" (1947) and the \"Golden Legacy\" and \"Fast Willie Jackson\" series (1976), and those articles included information on other comics such as \"Negro Heroes\" and \"Negro Romance\". Christopher described \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" not in terms of being a rare or obscure comic but as an historic document, placing it in the political context of the times and explaining non-violence as a workable tool for social change. \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" became a major attraction on his website, and the next \"Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide\" listed the book for the first time.\n\nBy 2006, there were only a handful of copies of \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" left in existence. That year, cartoonist/archivist Ethan Persoff scanned an original copy of the comic and posted it on his blog for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. In 2008, Persoff reported that the Cairo director of the American Islamic Congress (AIC) had translated the scanned comic into Arabic and Persian. The AIC's HAMSA (Hands Across the Mideast Support Alliance) initiative printed 2,500 copies of the translated comic, distributing them throughout Algeria, Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, and Yemen.\n\nUntil 2012, no history of \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" had been written, and most versions of how the comic was created listed Al Capp as the actual creator. As part of his graduate degree at Georgetown University, Andrew Aydin wrote the first long-form history of \"The Montgomery Story\" as his graduate thesis. With the help of Carlow University Professor Dr. Sylvia Rhor and comic book icon Eddie Campbell, Aydin established most of what is known about the comic's creation and use. In August 2013, Aydin published a shortened version of his thesis as the feature article in \"Creative Loafing\"'s award-winning \"Future of Nonviolence\" issue, which was guest-edited by Congressman John Lewis and Aydin.\n\nIn 2013, Top Shelf Productions published an authorized re-issue of the comic, with all proceeds going to the Fellowship of Reconciliation.\n\nThe comic opens with a one-page synopsis of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life and education up until 1957.\n\nThe narrative then shifts to Montgomery, Alabama, in 1954. An African American man named Jones tells of life in Montgomery under Jim Crow laws. He describes the events of the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the important role played by Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King, Jr. In the story, King advocates nonviolence, even when his own home is bombed during the boycott.\n\nThe last section of the comic discusses the \"Montgomery Method\" of nonviolence, its roots in the activism of Mahatma Gandhi, and provides practical advice on how to pursue nonviolent activism.\n\n\"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" influenced other civil rights activists, including the Greensboro Four.\n\nThanks to the 2008 American Islamic Congress HAMSA initiative, thousands of copies of the Arabic and Persian version of the comic were distributed to democracy advocates throughout the Middle East. When the Egyptian Revolution of 2011 broke out, U.S. Representative John Lewis credited the mass-distribution of the 50-year-old comic as a contributing element in the Egyptian protests.\n\nA hard copy of the Spanish edition of the comic is housed in the National Museum of African American History and Culture, part of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nGeorgia Congressman John Lewis read \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" as a teenager. The comic book demonstrated in clear fashion to Lewis the power of the philosophy and the discipline of nonviolence. Later, as he attended weekly meetings with students from Fisk University, Tennessee State University, Vanderbilt University, and American Baptist College to discuss nonviolent protest, \"The Montgomery Story\" served as one of their guides. Lewis went on to become an important activist during the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nWhile working on his 2008 reelection campaign, Lewis told his telecommunications and technology policy aide, Andrew Aydin, about \"The Montgomery Story\" and its influence. Aydin tracked down a copy of the comic (which had long since fallen out of print), and thought that Lewis' own story would make strong material for comic book treatment:\n\nAydin repeatedly suggested that Lewis himself write a comic book, and eventually Lewis decided to commit to the project, on the condition that Aydin write it with him. The award-winning \"March\" trilogy, written by Lewis & Aydin, illustrated by Nate Powell, and published beginning in 2013 by Top Shelf Productions, is the result.\n\nTop Shelf's authorized re-issue of \"Martin Luther King and the Montgomery Story\" won the 2014 Glyph Comics Award for Best Reprint Publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43843272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43843272", "title": "Murder of Marilee Bruszer", "text": "Murder of Marilee Bruszer\n\nMarilee Lee Bruszer, previously known as Juab County Jane Doe, was a formerly unidentified American murder victim who was found on September 3, 1978. Bruszer's body was not identified for 37 years (until August 2015) due to an inaccurate physical description generated by the original investigators and the great distance she was found from where she had resided prior to her disappearance.\n\nBruszer went missing on August 22, 1978 from Long Beach, California. Few details were available about her case, although authorities did believe she had been murdered and classified her as \"endangered missing.\" Further into the investigation, her dental records and DNA information were obtained to compare against unidentified bodies in the country.\n\nOn September 3, 1978, the naked remains of a woman were found near the Yuba Lake campground in Juab County, Utah by three women who were fishing near the Yuba Dam. She was white and believed to have been five feet two to three inches () tall at a weight around , which was reported to be inconsistent with Bruszer's height and weight at and , respectively. The victim was said to have light blond hair that was long, although some sources state that it was brown, strawberry blond or sandy blond. Her natural hair color was likely light brown, as some pubic hair was found. With the body, a double-hooped earring was found along with a white barrette. She had some dental crowding, which caused one of her front teeth to be crooked. The woman was believed to be between eighteen and twenty-two when she was strangled several months to three years before her body was found. The age and time of death of the victim are now known to have been inaccurate, as Bruszer was thirty-three at the time she disappeared a month before the remains were found.\n\nEarly into the investigation, it was speculated that the victim was one of four missing women from the area, Nancy Wilcox, Susan Curtis, Debra Kent and Nancy Baird. Later, these were eventually eliminated as potential identities after x-rays of Juab County Jane Doe's teeth were compared to their dental records. Currently, all four subjects still remain missing and have never been recovered.\nA detective was looking through the evidence locker at the Davis County Sheriff's Office in 2013 when he came across some hair marked \"Hair from Yuba Lake body.\" This was attributed to retired Davis County Sheriff's Captain Kenny Payne formerly working there as well as the state medical examiner's office at the same time and misplacing the evidence. The detective sent it off to Juab County soon after.\n\nThe Juab County Sheriff's Office secured a sample of this evidence and had it sent to Texas for testing in 2014. There, a DNA profile was generated and entered into the national database of missing people resulting in a familial match with two of Bruszer's family members who had submitted their DNA in the hopes of locating her. On August 22, 2015, the Long Beach Police informed the relatives that Bruszer had formally been identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "55291036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55291036", "title": "Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne", "text": "Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne\n\nOireachtas Rince na Cruinne (English: The Irish Dancing World Championships; often simply the Worlds) is an annual Irish stepdance competition run by An Coimisiún Le Rincí Gaelacha (the Irish Dancing Commission). The Worlds include competitions for solo stepdance, organised by gender and age; and for certain traditional and original ceili dances, also divided by age group and team gender composition. Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne is the top competition of the hierarchical system operated by An Coimisiún, and dancers must qualify at major Irish stepdance events across the world in order to compete.\n\nThe first Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne was run in 1970, and the event is now one of six oireachtais (championship competitions) under different organisations to be called the World Championships. Of these, Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, sometimes called the \"Olympics of Irish dance\", is the largest, attracting some 5,000 competitors and 25,000 spectators each year from over 30 countries. It has played a role in the globalisation of Irish stepdance and Irish dance generally, and, since the beginning of the 21st century, has been held in locations across the British Isles and in North America.\n\nThe Worlds traditionally run across Holy Week, and have at times extended to various cultural events outside of dancing. The development of the Championships formed a significant part of the Irish nationalist agenda of An Coimisiún and the Gaelic League towards the end of the 20th century.\n\nAn Coimisiún Le Rincí Gaelacha was established between 1927 and 1930 by the Gaelic League, which had for some years beforehand been consolidating control over Irish dancing as a means of promoting the Irish nationalist movement. An Coimisiún's original stated objectives, laid down at the Congress of the Gaelic League in 1931, were to \"protect and promote Irish dancing\" and to \"direct and control all Irish Dancing competitions throughout Ireland\". Among the earliest events developed by the new organisation was Oireachtas Rince na hÉireann (the All-Ireland Championships), which was first established as an independent event in 1929. It had previously been a component of the Gaelic League's annual Oireachtas cultural festival. A second major event, the Great Britain Championships, developed in the 1950s to meet increasing demand for Irish stepdance competitions in London and surrounds.\n\nThe gradual transition of An Coimisiún from local to international governing body began in the early 1950s. With the advent of affordable air travel and improved communication links from the 1960s onward, increased contact with dancing teachers across the Irish diaspora led An Coimisiún to gradually become a global organisation. This transition included the first examinations for teachers and adjudicators to be held in the United States and Australia. The concept of a World Championships event was first discussed in 1967. In early 1968, An Coimisiún established Provincial Championships in Leinster, Munster and Connacht, complementing the existing championships in Ulster, as part of a scheme which envisaged both the All-Ireland and Great Britain Championships becoming open only to dancers living in Ireland and Great Britain respectively. This change, which mirrored a similar system being developed in Australia at the time, was hoped to eventually lead to dancers qualifying first for their national championships and then for a newly created World Championships.\n\nAt the same time, An Comhdháil na Múinteoirí le Rincí Gaelacha (the Congress of Irish Dance Teachers), a Dublin-based organisation with whom many of An Coimisiún's teachers had been associated since the early 1960s, began to increase its influence. This caused tensions within An Coimisiún, particularly because of a perceived over-representation of delegates from the Gaelic League. In December 1969, teachers were compelled to register with one organisation or the other, which led to many of An Coimisiún's registered teachers within Ireland leaving the organisation. This event, which would become known as \"the split\", eventually resulted in An Comhdháil establishing itself as an alternative governing body for Irish dance with its own system of registration, examinations and competition. The loss of nearly half of An Coimisiún's teachers seriously jeopardised its planned World Championships, but a majority of overseas teachers continued to support the event, and this enabled preparations to continue.\n\nOne long-term impact of the split prior to the first Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne was the eventual establishment of competing World Championship events. An Comhdháil increased its reach into the early 21st century, and in 2012 renamed its All-Ireland Championships the World Championships in order to compete with Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne. Further ructions within An Comhdhail had also resulted in the establishment of several other Irish dancing regulatory bodies, many of which themselves expanded into international markets. By 2017, Cumann Rince Dea Mheasa, the World Irish Dance Association, Cumann Rince Náisiúnta and Cumann Rince Gaelach were each hosting World Championship events, with varying levels of international participation. Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne remains the largest of the six events.\n\nThe first Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne was eventually held in the Coláiste Mhuire Auditorium in Parnell Square, Dublin, on 1–3 May 1970, with five solo championships for men (by age group), five for women, three ceili championships and two \"figure dance\" championships. This event also included a number of \"subsidiary\" competitions not considered part of the Championships themselves; these were discontinued after the first year due to the popularity of the main event. The establishment of this event has been described as the most significant development in Irish stepdance during the history of An Coimisiún. It represented a fulfilment of An Coimisiún's goal to unite the Irish diaspora under a single, homogenous identity.\n\nThe Championships were judged by a single panel of three adjudicators, who awarded only three placings in each event. Over the following years, the number of judges was increased and separate panels introduced in an effort to improve the quality of adjudication.\n\nThe early years of Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne saw little success from competitors outside Ireland, despite the presence of a large contingent of North American dancers. This was due to a number of factors including the overseas competitors' style of dance, which was viewed as by the Irish as outdated, and differences in competition protocol between North America and Ireland. However, Michael Flatley, who became the first North American winner of the World Championships in 1975, recalled that his attempt to win at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne focused on adopting a more rigid and conservative dance style that would be accepted by Irish adjudicators. Flatley had competed at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne for the first time the year prior, and had placed fourth. The difficulty of competing successfully in Ireland was known to North American dancers as the \"Emerald Barrier\", and contributed to the development of an extensive system of competitions and championships on the North American continent. In 1971, the Irish Dancing Teachers' Association of North America chartered a Boeing 747 in an attempt to increase the number of North American competitors. In 1972, two entire Boeing 707s from Aer Lingus were booked to transport the North American contingent. \n\nAmerican teams experienced many of the same difficulties as solo dancers in succeeding during the early years of Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, although in some cases, the differences were more explicitly political. A North American dance drama team which had previously met with some success was placed last in the 1986 competition. Although the official reason for the decision was the inclusion of non-Irish music in the choreography, the team's teacher alleged to American media that the adjudicators had resented the dance's commentary on the Catholic Church. Conor Hayes became the first Australian to win a World Championship as late as 1996, and the inferiority of overseas competitors in the perception of adjudicators and Irish participants persisted into the early 21st century.\n\nEven within Ireland, the Worlds were initially dominated by dance schools from Ulster, whose style had become well-known via television broadcasts in the late 1969s. However, following the commencement of the Troubles in Northern Ireland in 1969, the competitive Irish dancing structure in the region rapidly disintegrated, and with it, the success of Ulster dancers.\n\nFrom 1975 onwards, the national championships of Australia, North America, Ireland and Great Britain, which had until that point served as qualifying events for the Worlds, were supplemented by regional championships in each country – North America, for instance, was divided into seven regions, to increase the number of world qualifiers. The system of regional and national championships serving as qualifying events was eventually expanded globally.\n\nFollowing complaints about the requirement that dancers qualify for the Championships, An Coimisiún decided to open the 1984 Worlds in Cork City to all dancers, with no qualification required. The subsequent massive influx of dancers necessitated the use of four separate venues in Cork over the course of 8 days, at the time the largest Irish dance event ever conducted. The large number of dancers in each section necessitated an extension to the usual three rounds of competition so that adjudicators had the opportunity to properly rank dancers. It was decided that due to the logistical complexities of such a large event, qualification would be reinstated for 1985.\n\nThe late 1970s and early 1980s saw the gradual introduction of metronomes to regulate the tempo of accompanying music, as well as the introduction of a set number of bars for each dance. The length of each performance had previously been at the discretion of the judging panel, which had resulted in unfair disadvantage to competitors forced to dance for longer. The 1986 Worlds, held in Limerick, were the first to use computer technology for the tabulation of results.\n\nThe success of the \"Riverdance\" show after its debut at the interval of the 1994 Eurovision Song Contest drastically transformed Irish dance in its style, popularity, and relationship to traditional Irish arts. Within the two-year timeframe of the first \"Riverdance\" the number of competitors at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne increased by 25%. This followed a period of approximately five years where participation numbers had remained roughly constant. The increase in competitor numbers was largely concentrated in younger age groups and led to the first Worlds sections with more than 100 competing dancers. However, the increase in numbers was confined largely to female dancers, and the decades following \"Riverdance\" saw a decline in the number of male dancers and mixed-gender ceili teams.\n\n1994 also marked the 25th edition of Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne. A commemorative video was produced by An Coimisiún and made available for purchase after the Championships. This was among the first Irish stepdance competitions for which An Coimisiún granted permission for filming.\n\nIn 2000, Belfast was announced as the location for the first Worlds to be held outside the Republic of Ireland. At the time, some competitors expressed fears for their safety in the new location, but Belfast authorities were keen to ensure the event's success to improve the city's reputation as a tourist destination. The 2001 Championships, planned to be held in Ennis, were cancelled due to the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Great Britain, from where nearly 35% of that year's competitors were expected to travel. The first Worlds to be cancelled caused substantially increased demand for the North American National Championships, traditionally held at the end of July, and forced organisers of that event to add stage capacity to cope with the influx of dancers. Furthermore, as a result of qualifiers for the 2001 event being allowed to carry over their qualification status to 2002, the next year in Glasgow saw a one-third increase on the usual number of competitors.\n\nIn 2007, An Coimisiún launched a now-defunct official website for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne at worldirishdancing.com. This website provided information on results and daily photographic commentary during the Championships.\n\nThe Worlds were held three times in North America in the early 21st century: Philadelphia in 2009, Boston in 2013 and Montreal in 2015. Although the number of competitors was higher than ever before due to the large number of dancers in the region, many dancers from Ireland and the UK did not attend, which led to a significant drop in the number of team entries. In 2009, to celebrate the 40th Championships, and in recognition of the increasingly global nature of the Worlds, a replica of the championship trophies was cast with the name of each host city inscribed on its base. This trophy is held by the host city for the year in which it holds Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne.\n\nAt a meeting of An Coimisiún on 20–21 January 2018, a new \"double recall\" system was approved for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne 2019 and beyond, following a consultation and development process begun in 2016. The new system, in which dancers compete in 2 rounds of \"heats\" prior to the existing 3 round structure (redesignated \"finals\"), was implemented to deal with rising qualification numbers and venue management difficulties. Announcing the system, chairperson of An Coimisiún James McCutcheon also noted the morale benefits of having an intermediate goal for dancers between qualification and final round recall.\n\nFrom 1980 onwards, when it was held for the first time outside Dublin, Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne has been held in a number of cities both within Ireland and in other countries such as Scotland and the United States. Past and future host cities of the World Championships include:\nOireachtas Rince na Cruinne is organised and overseen by An Coimisiún's Coiste Oireachtaisí (Oireachtas Committee), which is also responsible for the annual All-Ireland Championships. The committee's budget is set by Comhairle Bainistaíochta (the Council of Management). A chair of the Oireachtas Committee is elected each year at the annual general meeting of An Coimisiún.\n\nLocations for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne are selected following a bidding process, which allows regional representatives to submit their preferred venue for consideration. Bidding is led by both local An Coimisiún teachers and business representatives. The final decision is made by a vote of the Oireachtas Committee, taking into account the suitability of venue and the area's capacity to support the event with appropriate accommodation.\n\nThe approximate cost of staging Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne has been estimated at , which is covered by grants from local authorities and entrance fees from dancers. The event does not receive any funding from the Irish government. It has been estimated that the event contributes to local economies, in addition to flow-on social and economic benefits. One such outcome is the exposure of an entire city or region to thousands of potential tourists; as a result, Boston tourism authorities compared the total impact of the Worlds on the local economy to that of the Super Bowl. Most direct economic benefit is created by high booking rates at nearby hotels and restaurants. For example, the Belfast event in 2004 saw every hotel room in the city centre occupied for the duration of the championships.\n\nSolo dancers must qualify for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne at a qualifying event recognised by An Coimisiún. There are two classes of qualifying event: \"primary qualifiers\" open only to dancers in a particular region, and \"secondary qualifiers\" on a national or international scale. In some regions of the United States, pre-qualification for qualifiers is required. For each section at both primary and secondary qualifiers (according to the age groups of Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne) the top 5 placed dancers qualify, as well as an additional dancer for every 10 participants in the section. Generally speaking, all dancers must compete and qualify at their primary qualifier; however, dancers who fail to do so may qualify at their secondary qualifier or may be eligible for automatic qualification if they placed in a medal winning position at the previous Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne. Dancers who do not participate in their primary qualifier may not qualify secondarily or automatically unless they submit a valid reason, such as a medical condition, to An Coimisiún.\n\nThis system was introduced in 1981 after the establishment of regions in North America, in order to give dancers a second opportunity to qualify for the Worlds if their result at a regional qualifier was unusually poor. The secondary qualification system was subsequently introduced for all regions.\n\nA list of qualifying dancers is published annually in \"Irish Dancing Magazine\". World Qualifier status is considered prestigious by dancers in its own right. Indeed, the chief aspiration of many competitive dancers is simply to participate in Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne. A large number of dancers who qualify for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne do not attend, primarily because of the expense of international travel.\n\nThe qualification system places a disproportionate restriction on the number of female dancers at the Worlds, and consequently produces a female–male ratio of competitors much lower than at other Irish stepdance events. The massive increase in dancer numbers following Riverdance in 1994, however, did increase this ratio substantially, as the increase in female competitors was not matched by an increase in male competitors.\n\nAdjudicators for Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne are selected from An Coimisiún's registered adjudicators, who may apply to adjudicate if they have at least two years' experience judging major competitions. Adjudicators may not judge at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne more than once in a five-year period. The final selection of the adjudicator pool takes into account experience, reputation and knowledge of competitive Irish stepdancing, and the members of the pool are notified that they have been selected in the December prior to the Worlds.\n\nAs with all competitions run by An Coimisiún, adjudicators may not judge dancers with whom they are associated. This includes dancers whom they or their relatives have taught in the previous two years, or dancers to whom they are related. As it is not feasible to select adjudicators who have no direct or indirect relationship to dancers at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, dancers associated with the selected adjudicators are forbidden from competing once the adjudicator pool is announced, and their qualification status is automatically carried over to the following edition of the Worlds.\n\nFrom the pool selected, a ballot is publicly drawn on each morning of the Championships to determine the makeup of adjudication panels for each of the day's sections. There are three separate panels for each day of the Championships, with seven members each.\n\nThe decisions of adjudicators are final, and there exists no mechanism by which to question scores or rankings. It has been argued that this system contributes to political and personal biases among adjudication panels. In addition, participants in Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne frequently accuse adjudicators (though not directly) of politicising their decisions or favouring dancers of one region over another.\n\nThere are 25 solo championships: a male and female championship for each of 11 age groups between 10–11 years and 20–21 years, female 21–23 years, female over 23 and male over 21. All age groups encompass a single calendar year of birth with the exceptions of the \"Ladies 21–23 years\" championship, which covers two birth years, and the \"Ladies over 23\" and \"Men over 21\" championships, to which no upper age limit is applied. The youngest age group is 10–11 years. In general, the sections for younger age groups are held earlier in the week of the Championships.\n\nEach solo championship consists of three rounds, as do other stepdance competitions named as \"championships\". The first round, danced in hard shoes, is either a double jig or hornpipe depending on age group; the second round, in soft shoes consists of either slip jig or reel. Jigs and slip jigs are danced for 48 bars, while hornpipes and reels are danced for 40 bars.\n\nAfter the first two rounds, scores are tabulated and a percentage of top-ranked dancers are \"recalled\". These competitors perform the third, or \"set dance\" round, in hard shoes, one at a time. The \"set\" of the name refers to a particular tune, rather than to any specified choreography. The set dance at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne is performed in a contrasting time to the first round – that is, if the dancer performed a hornpipe ( time) in the first round, they must perform a jig ( time) in the set dance round, and vice versa. There are 30 set dance tunes approved for use at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne.\n\nAfter the three rounds have been completed and final scores tabulated, the individual place scores for each dancer are read in public and simultaneously revealed on video displays throughout the venue. The final placings are then read in order from first to last. Only dancers who have completed all three rounds may be placed in this way.\n\nA formula in each year's syllabus describes the number of competitors who will be awarded prizes, which is dependent on the total number of dancers in the section. These dancers are presented on the stage individually in an official presentation ceremony, and awarded a \"World medal\". The top five dancers in each section ascend a dais, and are presented with a distinctive perpetual trophy colloquially known as a \"globe\", as well as other trophies available in each section. The globe trophies were originally donated in 2007 by Michael Flatley and the first place versions include the names of all previous section winners inscribed around the base. Winners of male sections are frequently presented with a belt as a trophy, a practice which originated at a dance competition held in 1895 by the Gaelic Athletic Association.\n\nIt is usual for winners of a section to be described as having \"won the Worlds\", even though there is no mechanism by which to win the whole event. It is common for older winners of the World Championships to retire from competitive dance immediately afterwards.\n\nFor Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne 2019 onwards, a \"double recall\" system of 5 dancing rounds will be implemented. During the \"heats\", each age group will compete in a hard shoe and soft shoe dance, similar to the pre-2019 system. However, each competition will be divided in a pseudorandom fashion into two \"splits\" of equal size. Following these two rounds, a list of recalled dancers will be publicly announced; these dancers will move to the \"finals\" on the following day. \n\nThe finals day of competition will be judged by a new panel of adjudicators, and will operate with the same three-round structure as the pre-2019 system. The number of dancers progressing to the set dance round, as a proportion of the original entry numbers, will remain the same.\n\n, An Coimisiún was considering retaining the pre-2019 system for all male sections and female age groups U11 and U12.\n\nThere are nine championships for ceili dance at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne: five age groups for girls' teams, and four for mixed gender teams. The ceili dances performed at the Worlds are those which have been accepted by An Coimisiún as part of the stepdance tradition and which are found in the official publication of dances, \"Ar Rince Ceili\". Presently, the only ceili dances accepted at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne are eight-hand dances, that is, for eight dancers.\n\nFigure dances are dances of eight to sixteen dancers, originally composed but performed to Irish traditional music. Performed both for competition and exhibition, they are required to portray an Irish theme or item through the dance. A figure dancing championship, for \"newly composed dances that would be suitable for performance at a ceílí\", was included at the first Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne. After the Dance Drama section was spun off in 1974, the figure dance section was intended to retain a more traditional style.\n\nDancers in figure dance teams at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne are required to dance basic steps such as those found in approved ceili dances, and choreographies must not exceed 4 minutes. There are between 8 and 16 dancers in each team. Before each dance, the story portrayed by the dance is read aloud by the stage steward. It is common for figure dance teams to supply their own recorded music, which has the advantage of enabling changes in tempo and time signature through the dance, but live accompaniment is permitted. Figure dance teams are judged on their ability to portray the story, the quality of the choreography, individual footwork and technique, and the team's synchronisation and presentation.\n\nThere are five figure dance championships: three age groups for girls teams, including an open age group, and two age groups for mixed teams (with a minimum of 4 male dancers) including an open age group. The senior figure dancing competition is considered among the most prestigious sections at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, a reputation which it carried from its predecessor competition at the All-Ireland Championships.\n\nThe Dance Drama championship was conceived following the 1973 Worlds to distinguish the traditional figure dance section from more modern choreographies which involved the use of props and costume changes. Introduced in 1974, the section was renamed \"Dance Drama\" for the 1978 Worlds. Within a few years, Dance Drama was one of the most broadly popular sections at Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne.\n\nDance Drama teams are composed of between 8 and 20 dancers. The choreography is required to portray a \"specifically Irish historical or traditional story, event or theme\" and may be between 4 and 6 minutes in length, as well as a five-minute period before and after the performance for preparing and clearing the stage. Like the figure dance, the story accompanying the choreography is read publicly beforehand, and it is common for music to be pre-recorded. Simple changes of stage lighting and the use of portable props are permitted during the choreography. Teams are judged on the quality of choreography, execution of dancing, costuming and the \"impact on adjudicator\". The style of choreography has been described as a combination of Irish dance with physical theatre, due to its heavy reliance on mime and facial expression, and is of particular attraction to professional choreographers. It also contains elements of eighteenth-century pantomime.\n\nSince 2002, the Dance Drama event has been held in a separate venue to the main Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne competitions. Later, a special printed program was introduced for the event to cater for increased ticket sales among general audiences. In addition, interval acts were added to maintain a professional quality while the stage was reset for each team's performance. The Dance Drama event, along with the figure dancing championship, is often described as the \"highlight\" of the World Championships.\n\nMusical accompaniment for the dancers has been provided by live musicians throughout the history of Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne; the only exceptions are the figure dance and Dance Drama championships where pre-recorded accompaniment is increasingly common. Modern practice is that the usual instruments are piano accordion and electronic keyboard, although music has been provided on other traditional instruments such as fiddle. Accompanists at the Worlds are increasingly former dancers or practising teachers, as the demands of providing music for dance competitions require an understanding of the environment.\n\nAn opening ceremony including formalities with An Coimisiún and Gaelic League officials, as well as entertainment items, is held on the first day of the championships. This ceremony often includes representation of the countries in attendance with flags. The Oireachtas Committee also organises performances from local entertainers, including regional folk dancers and folk musicians to increase the event's appeal to the general public.\n\nA large facility in close proximity to the competition venue is typically set aside for vendors of dance–related products. These include specialised shoes, wigs, makeup and memorabilia. Designers of competition costumes also operate stalls to promote their design services.\n\nA practice floor is set aside for competing dancers to warm up before their competition.\n\nLocal dignitaries, including ambassadors of Ireland and other countries represented at the Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, are frequently involved with the event. The Worlds have also been attended by the President of Ireland on a number of occasions.\n\nA 1995 documentary, by producer Michele Fox for London Weekend Television, examined Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne, held that year in Dublin.\n\nThe 2010 Sue Bourne film \"Jig\" followed eight dancers on their journey to the 40th World Championships, held in Glasgow in 2010. Bourne initially struggled to obtain permission for the film from An Coimisiún because of their concerns about protecting dancers' original choreography, but was eventually allowed to produce the film on the basis of its potential publicity benefits.\n\nAn Coimisiún Le Rincí Gaelacha has officially expressed disappointment that the Worlds do not receive proportionate media coverage when held in Ireland, given that the event is not typically attended by any television stations like the Irish national broadcaster RTÉ.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3582102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3582102", "title": "Otronicon", "text": "Otronicon\n\nOtronicon (Orlando Electronic Interactive Convention) is an electronic gaming and simulation conference. The first annual convention was held at the Orlando Science Center in Orlando, Florida, United States in January 2006. The fourth annual event was held January 16-20th, 2009 at the Orlando Science Center. Events included tournaments, workshops, retro gaming including a small version of the Videotopia videogame history museum exhibit, gaming movies, and simulations. The event in 2009 was sponsored by Full Sail University, a programming and gaming-development university located outside of Orlando, FL. Otronicon ran for ten days in its inaugural show. It was also held at the Orlando Science Center during the 2007 and 2008 convention. It contained such game systems as the following: Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, Guitar Hero, and many Flight Simulators such as Helicopters, Cars, and the Original Microsoft Flight Simulator. The 2013 convention took place on January 18–21, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "24943204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24943204", "title": "PROBA-3", "text": "PROBA-3\n\nPROBA-3 is the third satellite mission in the European Space Agency's series of PROBA low-cost satellites that are being used to validate new spacecraft technologies while also carrying scientific instruments. \n\nPROBA-3 will be composed of two independent, three-axis stabilized spacecraft flying at 150 meters to one another with the ability to accurately control the attitude and separation of the two craft. Their alignment with the Sun will be maintained for 6 hours, creating ″artificial solar eclipse″ for the back satellite. The spacecraft pair will fly a highly elliptical orbit divided between periods of accurate formation flying around apogee, when payload operations will be possible, and periods of free flight. The length of the formation control period will be a trade-off involving the increasing amount of fuel needed to maintain the orbits in formation when away from apogee.\n\nThe primary mission of PROBA-3 is solar coronagraphy by using the telescope on the larger of the two satellites to view the Sun's corona while the other spacecraft is maneuvered to accurately occult the disc of the Sun.\n\nAs of 2017 PROBA-3 is scheduled to be launched in . The mission was planned to have a lifetime of around two years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9618961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9618961", "title": "Political repression of cyber-dissidents", "text": "Political repression of cyber-dissidents\n\nPolitical repression of cyber-dissidents is the oppression or persecution of people for expressing their political views on the Internet.\n\nAlong with development of the Internet, state authorities in many parts of the world are moving forward to install mass surveillance of the electronic communications, establish Internet censorship to limit the flow of information, and persecute individuals and groups who express \"inconvenient\" political views in the Internet. Many cyber-dissidents have found themselves persecuted for attempts to bypass state controlled news media. Reporters Without Borders has released a \"\" and maintains a roster of currently imprisoned cyber-dissidents.\n\nMohamad Reza Nasab Abdolahi was imprisoned for published an open letter to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. His pregnant wife and other bloggers who commented on the arrest were also imprisoned.\n\nRaif Badawi, Saudi Arabian writer and activist and the creator of the website Free Saudi Liberals, has been convicted of crimes including \"setting up a website that undermines general security\" and \"ridiculing Islamic religious figures.\" He was sentenced to seven years in prison and 600 lashes in 2013, then resentenced to 1000 lashes and ten years in prison plus a fine of 1 million riyal (equal to about $267,000). His wife, Ensaf Haidar, asserted that Raif will not be able to survive the flogging.\n\nSeveral bloggers in Egypt are arrested for allegedly defaming the president Hosni Mubarak or expressing critical views about Islam. Blogger Kareem Amer has been convicted to four years of prison.\n\nChinese Communist Party leader Hu Jintao ordered to \"maintain the initiative in opinion on the Internet and raise the level of guidance online,\" \"An internet police force – reportedly numbering 30,000 – trawls websites and chat rooms, erasing anti-Communist comments and posting pro-government messages.\" However, the number of Internet police personnel was challenged by Chinese authorities Amnesty International blamed several companies, including Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!, of collusion with the Chinese authorities to restrict access to information over the Internet and identify cyber-dissidents by hiring \"big mamas\".\n\nIt was reported that departments of provincial and municipal governments in mainland China began creating \"teams of internet commentators, whose job is to guide discussion on public bulletin boards away from politically sensitive topics by posting opinions anonymously or under false names\" in 2005 Applicants for the job were drawn mostly from the propaganda and police departments. Successful candidates have been offered classes in Marxism, propaganda techniques, and the Internet. \"They are actually hiring staff to curse online,\" said Liu Di, a Chinese student who was arrested for posting her comments in blogs \n\nIn 2006 journalist Vladimir Rakhmankov published an article on the Internet where he named Vladimir Putin \"the nation's phallic symbol\". A regional court found Rakhmankov guilty of offending Vladimir Putin and fined him to a sum of 20,000 roubles (~680 USD). \n\nIn June 2013 a criminal case was opened on opposition blogger Stanislav Kalinichenko for retweeting a photograph of a leaflet reading \"Enough demonstrating—it's time to act!\" signed by a group calling itself the \"First Resistance Detachment\" and calling for the destruction of corrupt officials' property\".\" Kalinichenko was charged with Criminal Code 280 (\"calling publicly for extremist acts\"), carrying a 4 years prison sentence. The human rights organization \"Memorial\" has characterized the charges as politically motivated.\n\nIn March 2014, on orders from the Attorney General, the government blocked the blog of opposition leader Alexey Navalny on the grounds that it disseminated extremism. In December 2015 Facebook complied with an order from the Attorney General to block Russian users' access to an event page by organizers of an unsanctioned rally in support of the Navalny brothers. All reposts of the event disappeared from users' walls. In addition, the supervisory body Roskomnadzor ordered a Ukrainian news website to delete a story about the protest.\n\nIn March 2014 historian Konstantin Zharinov was charged with advocating extremism, after using the \"share with friends\" VKontakte feature on a public appeal by the Ukrainian militant group Right Sector. Zharinov was placed under surveillance, and his participation in anti-war demonstrations and pickets in support of Alexey Navalny featured prominently in the investigation.\n\nIn April 2014 civic activist Andrey Teslenko was arrested for \"inciting hatred\", facing up to five years in prison for a repost to his VKontakte page of a post calling Russia \"sh*t-people, a vermin-people, and a cancer\" that hates the whole world and believes fascists control Ukraine. Teslenko fled Russia.\n\nLawyer and human rights defender Mohammed Abbou was imprisoned for criticizing torture on a web site.\n\nAsif Mohiuddin, a winner of The Bobs-Best of Online Activism award, was imprisoned by the Bangladesh government for posting \"offensive comments about Islam and Mohammed\". Deutsche Welle state \"\"Asif's blog was one of the most read web pages in Bangladesh and is known for its strong criticism of religious fundamentalism and Bangladesh's 'anti-people politics\"\n\nInternational organisations, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders and the Committee to Protect Journalists have condemned the imprisonment of bloggers and the climate of fear for journalists.\n\nThe head of Reporters without Borders Asia-Pacific commented on the murder of writer Avijit Roy noting \"It is unacceptable for [police] to spend so much time searching news outlets, arresting journalists, censoring news and investigating bloggers, when the many attacks on bloggers are still unpunished.\"\n\nNguyen Vu Binh was imprisoned for writing about violations of human rights, and Truong Quoc Huy was arrested for discussing political reforms in an Internet chat room. Nguyen Vu Binh was released in June 2007.\n\nIn January 2017, four bloggers known for their anti-religious and pro-democracy activism went missing. Altogether, their disappearances alarmed secular liberals involved in social activism in Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "629572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629572", "title": "Population transfer in the Soviet Union", "text": "Population transfer in the Soviet Union\n\nPopulation transfer in the Soviet Union refers to forced transfer of various groups from the 1930s up to the 1950s ordered by Joseph Stalin and may be classified into the following broad categories: deportations of \"anti-Soviet\" categories of population (often classified as \"enemies of workers\"), deportations of entire nationalities, labor force transfer, and organized migrations in opposite directions to fill the ethnically cleansed territories.\n\nIn most cases, their destinations were underpopulated remote areas (see Forced settlements in the Soviet Union). This includes deportations to the Soviet Union of non-Soviet citizens from countries outside the USSR. It has been estimated that, in their entirety, internal forced migrations affected at least 6 million people. Of this total, 1.8 million kulaks were deported in 1930–31, 1.0 million peasants and ethnic minorities in 1932–39, whereas about 3.5 million ethnic minorities were further resettled during 1940–52.\n\nSome 1 to 1.5 million perished as a result of the deportations — of those deaths, the deportation of Crimean Tatars and the deportation of Chechens were recognized as genocides by Ukraine and the European Parliament respectively.\n\nKulaks were a group of relatively affluent farmers and had gone by this class system term in the later Russian Empire, Soviet Russia, and early Soviet Union. They were the most numerous group deported by the Soviet Union. Resettlement of people officially designated as \"kulaks\" continued until early 1950, including several major waves.\n\nLarge numbers of kulaks regardless of their nationality were resettled to Siberia and Central Asia. According to data from Soviet archives, which were published in 1990, 1,803,392 people were sent to labor colonies and camps in 1930 and 1931, and 1,317,022 reached the destination. Deportations on a smaller scale continued after 1931. The reported number of kulaks and their relatives who had died in labour colonies from 1932 to 1940 was 389,521. It is estimated that 15 million kulaks and their families were deported by 1937, during the deportation many people died, but the full number is not known.\n\nDuring the 1930s, categorisation of so-called enemies of the people shifted from the usual Marxist–Leninist, class-based terms, such as \"kulak\", to ethnic-based ones. The partial removal of potentially trouble-making ethnic groups was a technique used consistently by Joseph Stalin during his government; between 1935 and 1938 alone, at least nine different nationalities were deported. Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union led to a massive escalation in Soviet ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe Deportation of Koreans in the Soviet Union, originally conceived in 1926, initiated in 1930, and carried through in 1937, was the first mass transfer of an entire nationality in the Soviet Union. Almost the entire Soviet population of ethnic Koreans (171,781 persons) were forcefully moved from the Russian Far East to unpopulated areas of the Kazakh SSR and the Uzbek SSR in October 1937.\n\nLooking at the entire period of Stalin's rule, one can list: Poles (1939–1941 and 1944–1945), Romanians (1941 and 1944–1953), Lithuanians, Latvians, Estonians (1941 and 1945–1949), Volga Germans (1941–1945), Ingrian Finns (1929–1931 and 1935–1939), Finnish people in Karelia (1940–1941, 1944), Crimean Tatars, Crimean Greeks (1944) and Caucasus Greeks (1949–50), Kalmyks, Balkars, Karachays, Meskhetian Turks, Karapapaks, Far East Koreans (1937), Chechens and Ingushs (1944). Shortly before, during and immediately after World War II, Stalin conducted a series of deportations on a huge scale which profoundly affected the ethnic map of the Soviet Union. It is estimated that between 1941 and 1949 nearly 3.3 million were deported to Siberia and the Central Asian republics. By some estimates, up to 43% of the resettled population died of diseases and malnutrition.\n\nThe deportations started with Poles from Byelorussia, Ukraine and European Russia (see Polish minority in Soviet Union) between 1932 and 1936. Koreans in the Russian Far East were deported in 1937. (See Deportation of Koreans in the Soviet Union.)\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion of Poland following the corresponding German invasion that marked the start of World War II in 1939, the Soviet Union annexed eastern parts (known as \"Kresy\" to the Polish) of the Second Polish Republic. During 1939–1941, 1.45 million people inhabiting the region were deported by the Soviet regime, of whom 63.1% were Poles and 7.4% were Jews. Previously it was believed that about 1.0 million Polish citizens died at the hands of the Soviets, but recently Polish historians, based mostly on queries in Soviet archives, estimate the number of deaths at about 350,000 people deported in 1939–1945. From the newly conquered Eastern Poland, 1.5 million people were deported.\n\nThe same followed in the Baltic republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia (see Soviet deportations from Estonia and Soviet deportations from Lithuania). More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been deported from the Baltic in 1940–1953. In addition, at least 75,000 were sent to the Gulag. 10% of the entire adult Baltic population was deported or sent to labor camps. In 1989, native Latvians represented only 52% of the population of their own country. In Estonia, the figure was 62%. In Lithuania, the situation was better because the migrants sent to that country actually moved to the former area of Eastern Prussia (now Kaliningrad) which, contrary to the original plans, never became part of Lithuania.\n\nLikewise, Romanians from Chernivtsi Oblast and Moldovia had been deported in great numbers which range from 200,000 to 400,000. (See Soviet deportations from Bessarabia.)\n\nDuring World War II, particularly in 1943–44, the Soviet government conducted a series of deportations. Some 1.9 million people were deported to Siberia and the Central Asian republics. Treasonous collaboration with the invading Germans and anti-Soviet rebellion were the official reasons for these deportations. Out of approximately 183,000 Crimean Tatars, 20,000 or 10% of the entire population served in German battalions. Consequently, Tatars too were transferred en masse by the Soviets after the war.\n\nVolga Germans and seven (non-Slavic) nationalities of the Crimea and the northern Caucasus were deported: the Crimean Tatars, Kalmyks, Chechens, Ingush, Balkars, Karachays, and Meskhetian Turks. All Crimean Tatars were deported \"en masse\", in a form of collective punishment, on 18 May 1944 as special settlers to Uzbekistan and other distant parts of the Soviet Union. According to NKVD data, nearly 20% died in exile during the following year and a half. Crimean Tatar activists have reported this figure to be nearly 46%. (See Deportation of Crimean Tatars.)\n\nOther minorities evicted from the Black Sea coastal region included Bulgarians, Crimean Greeks, Romanians and Armenians.\n\nAfter World War II, the German population of the Kaliningrad Oblast, former East Prussia was expelled and the depopulated area resettled by Soviet citizens, mainly by Russians.\n\nPoland and Soviet Ukraine conducted population exchanges; Poles who resided east of the established Poland–Soviet border were deported to Poland (c.a. 2,100,000 persons) and Ukrainians that resided west of the established Poland-Soviet Union border were deported to Soviet Ukraine. Population transfer to Soviet Ukraine occurred from September 1944 to April 1946 (ca. 450,000 persons). Some Ukrainians (ca. 200,000 persons) left southeast Poland more or less voluntarily (between 1944 and 1945).\n\nIn February 1956, Nikita Khrushchev in his speech \"On the Personality Cult and its Consequences\" condemned the deportations as a violation of Leninist principles, asserting as a joke that the Ukrainians avoided such a fate \"only because there were too many of them and there was no place to which to deport them.\" His government reversed most of Stalin's deportations.\n\nThis did not include the Crimean Tatars, Meskhetian Turks and Volga Germans, however. They were only allowed to return \"en masse\" to their homelands after 1991. The deportations had a profound effect on the non-Russian peoples of the Soviet Union and they are still a major political issue; the memory of the deportations played a major part in the separatist movements in Chechnya and the Baltic republics.\n\nSome peoples were deported after Stalin's death: in 1959, Chechen returnees were supplanted from the mountains to the Chechen plain. The mountain peoples of Tajikistan, such as the Yaghnobi people, were forcibly settled to the desert plains in the 1970s.\n\nAccording to a secret Soviet ministry of interior report dated December 1965, for the period 1940—1953, 46,000 people were deported from Moldova, 61,000 from Belarus, 571,000 from Ukraine, 119,000 from Lithuania, 53,000 from Latvia and 33,000 from Estonia.\n\nPunitive transfers of population transfers handled by the Gulag and the system of forced settlements in the Soviet Union were planned in accordance with the needs of the colonization of the remote and underpopulated territories of the Soviet Union. (Their large scale has led to a controversial opinion in the West that the economic growth of the Soviet Union was largely based on the slave labor of Gulag prisoners.) At the same time, on a number of occasions the workforce was transferred by non-violent means, usually by means of \"recruitment\" (\"вербовка\"). This kind of recruitment was regularly performed at forced settlements, where people were naturally more willing to resettle. For example, the workforce of the Donbass and Kuzbass mining basins is known to have been replenished in this way. (As a note of historical comparison, in Imperial Russia the mining workers at state mines (\"bergals\", \"бергалы\", from German \"Bergbau\", 'mining') were often recruited in lieu of military service which, for a certain period, had a term of 25 years).\n\nThere were several notable campaigns of targeted workforce transfer.\n\nWhen the war ended in May 1945, millions of Soviet citizens were forcefully repatriated (against their will) into the USSR. On 11 February 1945, at the conclusion of the Yalta Conference, the United States and United Kingdom signed a Repatriation Agreement with the USSR.\n\nThe interpretation of this Agreement resulted in the forcible repatriation of all Soviets regardless of their wishes. British and U.S. civilian authorities ordered their military forces in Europe to deport to the Soviet Union millions of former residents of the USSR (some of whom collaborated with the Germans), including numerous persons who had left Russia and established different citizenship many years before. The forced repatriation operations took place from 1945–1947.\n\nAt the end of World War II, more than 5 million \"displaced persons\" from the Soviet Union survived in German captivity. About 3 million had been forced laborers (Ostarbeiter) in Germany and occupied territories.\n\nSurviving POWs, about 1.5 million, repatriated \"Ostarbeiter\", and other displaced persons, totally more than 4,000,000 people were sent to special NKVD filtration camps (not Gulag). By 1946, 80% civilians and 20% of PoWs were freed, 5% of civilians, and 43% of PoWs re-drafted, 10% of civilians and 22% of PoWs were sent to labor battalions, and 2% of civilians and 15% of the PoWs (226,127 out of 1,539,475 total) transferred to the NKVD, i.e. the Gulag.\n\nMany historians consider these mass deportations of civilians a crime against humanity. Terry Martin of Harvard University observes:\nThe number of deaths attributed to deported people living in exile is considerable. The causes for such demographic catastrophe lie in harsh climates of Siberia and Kazakhstan, disease, malnutrition, work exploitation which lasted for up to 10 hours daily as well as any kind of appropriate housing or accommodation for the deported people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23580421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23580421", "title": "Read into", "text": "Read into\n\nThe process of being read into a compartmented program generally entails being approved for access to particularly sensitive and restricted information about a classified program, receiving a briefing about the program, and formally acknowledging the briefing, usually by signing a non-disclosure agreement describing restrictions on the handling and use of information concerning the program. Officials with the required security clearance and a need to know may be read into a covert operation or clandestine operation they will be working on. For codeword–classified programs, an official would not be aware a program existed with that codeword until being read in, because the codewords themselves are classified.\n\n"}
{"id": "19646785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19646785", "title": "Seoul International Youth Film Festival", "text": "Seoul International Youth Film Festival\n\nThe Seoul International Youth Film Festival (SIYFF) is the biggest youth film festival in Korea and has provided a venue for youths to share their culture via films and media education since 1999. It aims to promote broader international exchanges among talented cine kids and establish network to improve their competitiveness in the film industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "3295301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3295301", "title": "Sinhala Only Act", "text": "Sinhala Only Act\n\nThe Sinhala Only Act, formally the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956, was an act passed in the Parliament of Ceylon in 1956. The act replaced English as the official language of Ceylon with Sinhalese. The act failed to give official recognition to Tamil, which had not received official recognition before.\n\nSinhalese is the language of Sri Lanka's majority Sinhalese people, who accounted for around 70% of the country's population at that time. Tamil is the first language of Ceylon's three largest minority ethnic groups, the Indian Tamils, Sri Lankan Tamils and Moors, who together accounted for around 29% of the country's population.\n\nThe act was controversial as supporters of the act saw it as an attempt by a community that had just gained independence to distance themselves from their colonial masters, while its opponents viewed it as an attempt by the linguistic majority to oppress and assert dominance on minorities. The Act symbolizes the post independent majority Sinhalese to assert its Sri Lanka's identity as a nation state, and for Tamils, it became a symbol of minority oppression and a justification for them to demand a separate nation-state, Tamil Eelam, which was a factor in the emergence of the decades-long Sri Lankan Civil War.\n\nUnder the British Empire, English was the language of rule in Ceylon (now known as Sri Lanka). Until the passage of the \"Free Education Bill\" in 1944, education in the English language was the preserve of the subaltern elite and the ordinary people had little knowledge of it. A disproportionate number of English-language schools were located in the mostly Tamil-speaking north. Thus, English-speaking Tamils held a higher percentage of coveted Ceylon Civil Service jobs, which required English fluency, than their share of the island's population.\n\nAfter their election to the State Council of Ceylon in 1936, the Lanka Sama Samaja Party (LSSP) members N. M. Perera and Philip Gunawardena demanded the replacement of English as the official language by Sinhala and Tamil. In November 1936, a motion that \"in the Municipal and Police Courts of the Island the proceedings should be in the vernacular\" and that \"entries in police stations should be recorded in the language in which they are originally stated\" were passed by the State Council and referred to the legal secretary.\n\nIn 1944, J. R. Jayewardene moved a motion in the State Council that Sinhala should replace English as the official language.\n\nHowever, nothing was done about these matters and English continued to be the language of rule until 1956.\n\nCeylon gained dominion status in 1948 with a peaceful struggle, the passage to sovereignty from the British to the Sri Lankan subaltern elite being a peaceful one. For the first years of independence, there was an attempt to balance the interests of the elites of the main communities: the Sinhalese and the Tamils. Most Sinhalese did, however, harbour the view that the Tamils had enjoyed a privileged position under the British. Some have described this being mainly due to the British policy of \"divide and rule\". In 1949, at the behest of the foreign plantation owners, the government disenfranchised the Indian Tamil plantation workers, who accounted for 12% of the population.\n\nIn 1951, the ambitious Solomon Bandaranaike broke with his party, the conservative United National Party (UNP), and created a new centrist party, the Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP). In 1955, the SLFP decided to break ranks with the general consensus on the left to have both Sinhalese and Tamil as official languages to campaign on the slogan \"Sinhala Only\".\n\nIn the 1956 parliamentary elections, the SLFP campaigned on largely nationalist policies, and made the one of their key election promises. The result was electoral victory for the SLFP, and \"The Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Council\" or \"Sinhala Only Bill\" was quickly enacted after the election. The bill was passed with the SLFP and the UNP supporting it, with the leftist LSSP and Communist Party of Sri Lanka as well as the Tamil nationalist parties (Illankai Tamil Arasu Kachchi and All Ceylon Tamil Congress) opposing it.\n\nThe Left bitterly opposed it, with Dr N. M. Perera, leader of the LSSP, moving a motion in Parliament that the Act \"should be amended forthwith to provide for the Sinhalese and Tamil languages to be state languages of Ceylon with parity of status throughout the Island.\"\n\nDr Colvin R. de Silva of the LSSP responded, in what some regard as famous last words: \"Do we... want a single nation or do we want two nations? Do we want a single state or do we want two? Do we want one Ceylon or do we want two? And above all, do we want an independent Ceylon which must necessarily be united and single and single Ceylon, or two bleeding halves of Ceylon which can be gobbled up by every ravaging imperialist monster that may happen to range the Indian ocean? These are issues that in fact we have been discussing under the form and appearance of language issue.\"\n\nThe passage of the act was met with demonstrations from Tamils led by the Federal Party who organized a satyagraha (peaceful protest) outside the parliament building. As a response, the Sinhalese nationalist group Eksath Bhikkhu Peramuna organized a counter-protest and a mob representing this group attacked the Tamil protesters and was \"responsible for unleashing riots that killed nearly 150 Tamils.\"\n\nParts of the act was reversed in 1958, after the so-called \"Sinhala Only, Tamil Also\" compromise made by the Tamil leaders. On 3 September 1958 the \"Tamil Language (Special Provisions) Act\" - which provided for the use of the Tamil language as a medium of instruction, as a medium of examination for admission to the Public Service, for use in state correspondence and for administrative purposes in the Northern and Eastern provinces - was passed. The Left parties continued to demand parity of status until after the Tamil electorate voted overwhelmingly in the 1960 elections for the same leaders who had agreed to the compromise.\n\nThe policy turned out to be \"severely discriminatory\" and placed the Tamil-speaking population at a \"serious disadvantage\". As a Sinhalese academic A. M. Navaratna Bandara writes: \"The Tamil-speaking people were given no option but to learn the language of the majority if they wanted to get public service employment. [...] A large number of Tamil public servants had to accept compulsory retirement because of their inability to prove proficiency in the official language [...]\" The effects of these policies were dramatic as shown by the drastic drop of Tamil representation in public sector: \"In 1956, 30 percent of the Ceylon administrative service, 50 percent of the clerical service, 60 percent of engineers and doctors, and 40 percent of the armed forces were Tamil. By 1970 those numbers had plummeted to 5 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent, and 1 percent, respectively.\" For much of the 1960s government forms and services were virtually unavailable to Tamils, and this situation only partly improved with later relaxations of the law.\n\nAccording to Chapter IV of the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka, the Sinhala and Tamil languages are both official and national languages of the country. This constitution was amended in 1987.\n\nAccording to the Chapter 4: Language of Legislation of the Sri Lanka constitution, previously written act is to be interpreted in Sinhala to avoid mis-interpretation. In the case of a new act the parliament, at the stage of enactment has the authority to determine which version of the legislation prevails in the event of inconsistencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "58051043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58051043", "title": "South Valley Fire", "text": "South Valley Fire\n\nThe South Valley Fire is a human-caused wildfire currently burning in Wasco County near Dufur in the U.S. state of Oregon. The fire is one of three fires near Dufur, specifically the active Long Hollow Fire and the contained Substation Fire. The South Valley Fire has burned . It has caused the evacuation of 400 people and threatens 100 homes. It has impacted recreational activities along the Deschutes River.\n\nThe fire was started around 1:30 p.m. on August 1, 2018, near Dufur in Wasco County, Oregon. The fire grew fast, burning almost by the evening. Level three evacuations were put in place and Governor Kate Brown call into action the emergency conflagration act as a result of the fire, sending resources. Highway 197 was closed. The Bureau of Land Management issued an evacuation for areas along the Deschutes River, specifically from Sandy Beach to Macks Canyon. As of the evening of August 1, the fire had burned an estimated . The next day, it had grown exponentially to with 400 people evacuated. A historic barn, built in 1906, was burned by the fire.\n\nThe South Valley Fire was one of three fires to have burned in the area, adding to the heavy smoke and evacuations already in place, particularly around the community of Dufur. The fire also impacted recreational activities along the Deschutes River.\n\nThe following areas are under mandatory evacuation as of August 1:\n"}
{"id": "24622630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24622630", "title": "Strawberry Fields (Canadian festival)", "text": "Strawberry Fields (Canadian festival)\n\nThe Strawberry Fields Festival was a rock music festival held at Mosport Park Raceway in Bowmanville, Ontario, Canada, about 100 kilometers east of Toronto, between August 7 and the early morning hours of August 10, 1970. Although accounts vary, the audience has been estimated at between 75,000 and 100,000 people. A three-day ticket for the festival sold for $15.00.\n\nJohn Brower along with John Lennon and Yoko Ono had originally planned to host the \"Toronto Peace Festival\" at Mosport Park in July 1970 but they ran into numerous roadblocks and their plans were dashed when their application for the necessary permits were denied. In de-classified documents released in 2007 it was revealed in an RCMP report dated December 30, 1969, that the Canadian security service began spying on ex-Beatle John and Yoko after they announced their plans for the Peace Festival.\n\nWithout John and Yoko, Brower moved forward with plans to host a festival at Shediac, near Moncton, New Brunswick, named the \"Strawberry Fields Festival\". Again, local politicians intervened and revoked various permits so Brower shifted the location back to Mosport Park in Ontario only this time he thinly disguised the event as a championship motorcycle race featuring \"some contemporary entertainment\". The festival was advertised in Canada as the \"First Annual Strawberry Cup Trophy Race\". To avoid public and political scrutiny, the musical entertainment aspect of the event was downplayed in advertisements and the festival was not promoted heavily in Canada.\n\nWhen it was discovered that the primary focus of the event was not motor cycle racing but instead a rock music festival, the Attorney General of Ontario, Arthur Wishart, filed for an injunction to stop the festival from taking place citing health and public safety concerns. On August 6, with only hours to go before the opening act was scheduled to take the stage, Supreme Court Justice D. A. Keith refused to grant the injunction and the festival was allowed to proceed.\n\nUnlike in Canada, the \"Strawberry Fields Festival\" was promoted heavily in the U.S. as a three-day rock music festival with the slogan, \"Love, Sun and Sound\". As a result, a large percentage of the attendees were from the American north east. Others travelled from as far away as California and Florida. In the end, the sanctioning body for the racing series withdrew its drivers from the event so an actual race never occurred although an obligatory lap by a few motorcyclists did occur in order to comply with the local ordinance.\n\nSeveral thousand more young American music fans were turned back at the Canada–US border by Canadian border agents. The fans were unable to provide proof they had sufficient funds to look after themselves while visiting Canada or produce adequate identification. Forty US dollars were required to be shown to officials (at the Thousand Islands Bridge crossing checkpoint). If one could not show cash they were told they could not enter Canada. Cash was sometimes borrowed from person to person at the lineup. One person turned away at the Canadian border crossing at Prescott, Ontario, drowned while attempting to swim into Canada across the St. Lawrence River near Watertown, New York. Several arrests related to the attempted importation of narcotics and banned substances were made.\n\nMosport is a auto racing venue. Strawberry Fields was the first of three major music festivals held at Mosport Park Raceway, between 1970 and 1980. The other two were Canada Jam held August 26, 1978 and the punk and new wave themed Heatwave Festival held August 23, 1980.\n\nStrawberry Festival acts included (not in order of appearance):\n\n\nLed Zeppelin and Leonard Cohen were listed on the bill but did not appear. The festival concluded at 5:30 am on Monday morning, August 10 with a performance by Woodstock alumni Sly & the Family Stone, playing, \"I Wanna Take You Higher\", as the sun came up. Other performers who also appeared at the 1969 Woodstock Festival in Bethel, New York included Melanie, Ten Years After and Mountain. Chip Monck, who designed the stage lighting for Woodstock and became the impromptu emcee of that event, had planned to emcee Strawberry Fields, but the various changes in dates and venues pushed the festival into August and Monck was bound to honour a previous commitment to work the Rolling Stones European tour at that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34681908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34681908", "title": "Tbilisoba", "text": "Tbilisoba\n\nTbilisoba () is an annual October festival which celebrates the diversity and history of Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia. It was first held on October 28, 1979, and has since become an established tradition. The festival features open-air concerts of traditional music and dancing and various cultural events, centered on Old Tbilisi, the historical part of the city. Beyond celebrating the city's past and present, people from all over Georgia represent their region at the fair of the harvest and \"Rtveli\". Awarding honorary citizenship of Tbilisi by the city government also occurs in the framework of Tbilisoba.\n\nThe festival was created at the initiative of Eduard Shevardnadze, then the First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, to honor the capital and counter attendance at religious events as part of his program to overcome \"manifestations of nationalism\" through introducing new \"socialist traditions\". The event became a celebration of the city's 1,500-year history and had the unintended effect of engaging Georgians more intensely in their national history. The festival remained dormant during the civil unrest of the early 1990s. It was resumed in 1995 and has since been held annually, usually in the latter half of October.\n"}
{"id": "12365985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12365985", "title": "Tendonectomy", "text": "Tendonectomy\n\nTendonectomy is the surgical cutting of tendons, and is generally only practiced in veterinary medicine.\n\nPerforming a tendonectomy on a cat is an alternative to onychectomy (\"declawing\"), which amputates the end of each digit. Tendonectomy may be considered less painful for the cat than onychectomy; however, it is not recommended by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) and is illegal in many countries.\n\nIn a tendonectomy, a small portion of the tendon in each of a cat's toes is surgically removed to prevent the cat from extending the claws. Thus, the cat is no longer capable of scratching.\n\nClaws will continue to grow following tendonectomy, and because the cat can no longer extend the claws to scratch, the cat will not wear down the claws as before. Therefore, among other considerations, the cat owner should evaluate the ongoing maintenance required in the form of regular claw trimming thereafter when considering this procedure.\n\nIn terms of studies on the impact of onychectomy versus tendonectomy, the American Veterinary Medical Association compared the outcomes of the two operations in its August 1, 1998 issue. Their report considered owner satisfaction and drawbacks such as pain and future complications. Cats who underwent tendonectomy displayed significantly lower pain immediately following the procedure versus those who underwent onychectomy. However, both procedures showed an equal frequency of other complications, such as bleeding, lameness, and infection. Cats took the same number of days to recover from both operations (as measured by normalcy in walking), and owners were equally satisfied with both options.\n\nOne complication to watch out for later on in the cat's life with a tendonectomy is the nails getting brittle. Nails that are more brittle are prone to splitting and shattering when trimmed by the owner, which is quite painful for the cat.\n\n"}
{"id": "41892741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41892741", "title": "The Diamond Jubilee World Tour", "text": "The Diamond Jubilee World Tour\n\nThe Diamond Jubilee World is the concert tour by American recording artist, Frank Sinatra, with Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gormé.\n"}
{"id": "2313391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313391", "title": "The Farnsworth Invention", "text": "The Farnsworth Invention\n\nThe Farnsworth Invention is a stage play by Aaron Sorkin adapted from an unproduced screenplay about Philo Farnsworth's first fully functional and completely all-electronic television system and David Sarnoff, the RCA president who stole the design.\n\nOn April 29, 2004, New Line Cinema announced they had acquired the drama script \"The Farnsworth Invention\" from award-winning writer Aaron Sorkin. Thomas Schlamme was set to direct.\n\nThe release read in part: \"\"The Farnsworth Invention\" tells the story of Philo Farnsworth, a boy genius born in Beaver, Utah, who later moved to Rigby, Idaho, where he began experimenting with electricity. In 1920, when Farnsworth was 14, he showed his high school chemistry teacher a design he had made for an electronic television only to become involved in an all or nothing battle with David Sarnoff, the young president of RCA and America's first communications mogul.\" Schlamme described the movie as \"a classic American tale driven by the conflict between a Mormon farmer and a Russian immigrant over the ownership of the most influential invention of the 20th Century.\"\n\nFollowing its initial press release, New Line did not disclose any additional information about the film. As a result, websites such as the Internet Movie Database incorrectly anticipated a film in 2005. IMDb eventually removed the entry.\n\nIn 2005 it was announced that Sorkin was adapting the screenplay for the stage and the play would debut in the Abbey Theatre in Dublin, Ireland. It was staged at the La Jolla Playhouse from February 20 - March 25, 2007 as \"a page-to-stage production\" with Jimmi Simpson (\"Zodiac\") playing Farnsworth and Stephen Lang (\"Gods and Generals\", \"Avatar\") as Sarnoff. Award-winning composer Andrew Lippa penned 45 minutes of music to underscore the drama.\n\nIt was scheduled to open on Broadway on November 14, 2007, but this was delayed due to the 2007 Broadway stagehand strike. It opened at the Music Box Theatre on December 3, 2007, with Hank Azaria in the Sarnoff role due to Lang's commitment to James Cameron's 2009 film \"Avatar\".\n\nThe show closed on March 2, 2008.\n\nAn Australian production directed by Louise Fischer officially opened on July 13, 2011 at the New Theatre in Newtown.\n\nThe play is not historically accurate, and is an intentional alteration of the story. It shows Farnsworth as being defeated legally by Sarnoff, and then spending his life in obscurity. In reality, Farnsworth won the lawsuit, later received a $1 million payment from RCA for the purchase of his TV patents, and went on to have an illustrious career in technological research. There is a statue of Farnsworth in Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol.\n\nThis issue was later addressed on a Facebook question where Sorkin wrote:\n\nIn \"The New York Times\", Ben Brantley panned the play with faint praise:\nIn the \"New York Post\", Clive Barnes awarded it 2½ out of 4 stars and stated, \"Sorkin's take on the Farnsworth/Sarnoff standoff would be better suited to a screen, either big or small. Even now, while crackling with crisp dialogue, \"The Farnsworth Invention\" often has the air of a clumsy stage adaptation of, say, \"Citizen Kane\".\" \n\nJoe Dziemianowicz of the \"New York Daily News\" described it as \"disappointing and ho-hum\" and \"seldom deeply involving . . . Scenes play out like brief vignettes from a History Channel biopic . . . without stirring emotions.\" \n\nIn \"Newsday\", Linda Winer called it \"vintage Sorkin and crackling prime-time theater . . . breezy and shrewd, smart-alecky and idealistic.\" \n\nIn \"Variety\", David Rooney said, \"The plot-heavy drama is light on fully fleshed-out characters or subtext, making it likely to play more satisfyingly when it inevitably reverts to being a film or cable project . . . [it] never fully moves beyond its stream of over-explained factoids.\" \n\nIn the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Hedy Weiss described it as \"a firecracker of a play in a fittingly snap, crackle and pop production under the direction of Des McAnuff, the drama has among its many virtues the ability to make you think at the same time that it breaks your heart.\" \n\nChris Jones of the \"Chicago Tribune\" called it \"slick yet deeply conflicted\" and \"restless\" and added, \"this is one of those Boomer-friendly, media-savvy, self-aware pieces of effective theater that feel like they owe a lot to TV writing and our celebrity-obsessed culture . . . this is a jumpy piece of writing. It feels like the writer is worried the audience might change the channel. That's not entirely a bad thing. As fans of Sorkin's TV shows know well, the internal psyche of Sorkin is a very stimulating place in which to dwell for a couple of hours. His characters are uncommonly articulate and witty—albeit without much differentiation. He has mastered all the dramatic rules so well, he can titillate you by deconstructing and then reassembling them. And in this case he certainly knows how to make a dry scientific quest into a provocative piece of theater.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "22201710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22201710", "title": "The Warehouse Project", "text": "The Warehouse Project\n\nThe Warehouse Project is a series of club nights organised in Greater Manchester, England, since 2006. Unlike most other clubs, it has a limited seasonal approach rather than running all year. Each year's season runs from September through to New Years Day, plus occasional one off dates such as Bank Holiday weekends. This period corresponds with the busiest time of the year and the student calendar.\n\nThe Warehouse Project was initially started as a joint venture by Sacha Lord-Marchionne and Sam Kandel, who both had previous involvement with the Sankeys nightclub in Manchester. It began operations in the disused Boddingtons Brewery in Strangeways, and then moved into a space under Manchester Piccadilly station, on Store Street, which previously served as an air raid shelter.\n\nOn 14 July 2011, The Warehouse Project announced that the 2011 season would be the last ever WHP event at Store Street. This was followed by a later announcement on 22 March 2012 that the 2012 season would be based at the Victoria Warehouse Hotel, to the west of Manchester city centre in Trafford Park, near Old Trafford football stadium. The club remained at this location for the 2013 season as well. In late 2013, rumours started that The Warehouse Project was due to move to the disused Mayfield Depot next to Manchester Piccadilly station from 2014 but a planning application was subsequently withdrawn in September 2013. The Warehouse Project's 2013 season drew to a close at the end of the year, with a final closing party on 1 January 2014 at the Victoria Warehouse Hotel venue.\n\nDespite the announcement made in 2011, the 2014 season returned to Store Street, in a move being described by the organisers as returning to their \"spiritual home\" for one last year. During this time, the owners of Mayfield Depot decided to redevelop their site rather than retaining it as a cultural venue., so the 2015 season will again be located at the Store Street location.\n\nThe 2017 season was announced in July 2017, with 31 shows returning to Store Street once again from September.\n\nSince its foundation the club has played host to numerous internationally acclaimed DJs such as Carl Cox, Sven Väth, Aphex Twin, Richie Hawtin, Deadmau5, Annie Mac, Pete Tong, Armand Van Helden and Erick Morillo, and musicians such as De La Soul, Happy Mondays, Chic, The Prodigy, Disclosure, Basement Jaxx and Foals. In 2007, The Warehouse Project was voted by dance music magazine \"Mixmag\" as the best club in the United Kingdom. In 2013 The Warehouse Project was voted by \"DJ mag\" as the \"Best Club Series\" in the magazines \"Best of British Awards\".\n\nThe Warehouse Project is noted for placing international DJs alongside less established artists.\n\nTwo high-profile deaths have occurred at The Warehouse Project, those of Nick Bonnie and Souvik Pal, alongside several reports in the media of near-misses. These incidents resulted in calls from local councillors such as David Acton and Mike Cordingley for the licence to be revoked or reviewed. However, police statements have countered this, with high-ranking officers supporting the club and is management. Sixteen individuals were hospitalised during the first weekend of the 2013 season from taking drugs at the venue, and also include drug dealers at the club who have attempted to avoid arrest by swallowing all their stash.\n\nAt the end of the 2012 season, on New Year's Eve, Souvik Pal was escorted out of the club. He was subsequently found dead in the adjacent canal later that month. The unexplained death was later reclassified as a murder investigation after reports of Souvik being seen leaving the area with an unknown individual after being thrown out of the club. Although the death did not occur on the premises of the club, local councilors questioned whether the security at the club was sufficient.\n\nOn the very first night of the 2013 season, a group of friends from Gloucestershire attended the opening event at The Warehouse Project. During the course of the night, one of their party fell ill and had to be taken to hospital, where he later died due to an overdose of an illegal drug he had consumed at The Warehouse Project. Initially, it was believed that Nick had purchased the drug inside club from a dealer, largely due to testimony of his friends, and this led to police and media fears of a \"bad\" batch of ecstasy, possibly laced with PMA. However, in subsequent court proceedings, the friends admitted to having invented this story to cover that they had brought the drug into the club themselves. The fall out from the death led to further calls for the club's license to be reviewed, and in the following days further hospital statements contributed to media reporting that the club itself had become an unacceptable risk.\n\nThe club responded to this by increasing in the number of medical and security staff at the venue. Various national politicians, including the Prime Minister David Cameron, commented on the incident and the dangers posed by people taking illegal drugs at clubs such as The Warehouse Project, calling it a tragic death.\n\nDetail Report\n"}
{"id": "8869294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8869294", "title": "U.S. raid on the Iranian Liaison Office in Erbil", "text": "U.S. raid on the Iranian Liaison Office in Erbil\n\nThe US raid on the Iranian Liaison Office in Erbil refers to the events of 11 January 2007 when the US military raided the Iranian Liaison Office (which was in the process of becoming accredited as an officially recognized consulate) in Erbil, Iraq, ostensibly to detain two senior Iranian officials but capturing five mid-level diplomats instead. The US government's position is that the office was used by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards as a local headquarters. However, both Iranian and Kurdish Autonomous Region officials state that it was a diplomatic mission in the city of Arbil (Irbil) in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nOn July 9, 2009, US authorities released the five diplomats (Mohsen Bagheri, Mahmoud Farhadi, Majid Ghaemi, Majid Dagheri and Abbas Jami), after more than two and a half years imprisonment. The US said this action was required under the U.S.–Iraq Status of Forces Agreement.\n\nAccording to Iranian officials, five U.S. helicopters landed on the roof of the liaison office in Arbil. U.S. soldiers entered the building, detained five people and took away materials. The raid occurred between 3 and 5 a.m., when the U.S. troops entered the liaison office after disarming the guards. Two senior local Kurdish officials said the forces confiscated computers and documents.\n\nIn a report which was later confirmed by Massoud Barzani, the President of the Kurdistan Regional Government, \"The Independent\" noted that instead of the current captives, the U.S. had hoped to capture the deputy head of the Iranian Supreme National Security Council, Mohammed Jafari, and chief of intelligence of the IRGC, General Manuchehr Frouzandeh, who were on an official visit to Iraq ostensibly to improve co-operation in the area of bilateral security, during which they met the Iraqi President Jalal Talabani. Barzani stated: \"They (the commanders) came here and they came openly. Their meetings with the president and myself were reported on television. The Americans came to detain this delegation, not the people in the office. They came to the wrong place at the wrong time.\" It was also reported that U.S. troops attempted to detain people at the Arbil airport that same day, but Kurdish forces intervened. Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said that there was almost a confrontation between U.S. and Kurdish troops at the airport but that \"a massacre was avoided at the last minute.\"\n\nThe raid took place within hours of U.S. President George W. Bush claiming \"Iran is providing material support for attacks on American troops\" in an address to the nation.\n\nThis was not the first time the United States had arrested alleged IRGC members in Iraq. A few weeks before, on 29 December, U.S. forces in Iraq released alleged Iranian IRGC members who were detained for alleged weapons smuggling after a raid conducted 21 December in Baghdad.\n\nThe Iranian liaison office in Arbil has been active and operating since 1992. The various governments dispute the exact status of the office.\n\nAccording to Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, the detained Iranians had been working in Arbil with official sanction, and the liaison office was in the process of becoming a full consulate; however the office was yet to be classified as a consulate with diplomatic protection.\n\nIran states that based on an agreement between the Governments of Iran and Iraq its status was officially changed to a Consulate General, and official \"note verbale\" (diplomatic notes) were exchanged between the two countries accordingly. According to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations consulates enjoy immunity and all members of the U.N. have to respect such immunity.\n\nOfficials of the Kurdistan Regional Government said that consular activities, such as the issuance of visas, had been carried out by the office staff since 1992, and they were treated as if they were accredited diplomats.\n\nThe U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the detainees were not diplomats.\n\nMasoud Barzani condemned the capture and demanded the quick release of Iranians. Kurdistani government was reportedly unaware of the US plans to raid the Iranian liaison office and did not know the purpose of the operation. After raiding the office, the US forces headed for Eikawa district, which hosts foreign companies and countries' representatives. Security forces of the Democratic Party of Kurdistan (KDP) reportedly surrounded three US military vehicles to prevent them from further action.\n\nIran's Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini told state-run radio the raid was against a diplomatic mission since the presence of Iranian staffers in Arbil was legal. Hosseini said the action by coalition forces reflected a continuation of pressure on Iran, aiming to \"create tension\" between Iraq and its neighbors.\n\nIn Tehran, Iran summoned the ambassadors of Iraq and Switzerland (which represents US interests in Iran) over the consulate raid.\n\nThe UN Secretary General's described the incident as \"disputes between individual states\". A UN spokesman said \"We've left it to the respective countries to work it out among themselves ... Ultimately it's up to Security Council members themselves to determine how its resolutions get implemented.\"\n\nOn March 10 at a meeting of envoys in Baghdad the Iranian delegation raised the issue of the five detained Iranians. A US spokesman said that Iraq had asked the US side to investigate the circumstances involving the detention. Iran says it was assured by Iraq that the five would be released by March 21, the Iranian new year.\n\nSome claim that the increased diplomatic tension created by this incident lead to the Iranian seizure of 15 Royal Navy personnel in a border dispute two months later.\n\nAccording to American journalist Robin Wright, the 2007 seizure of fifteen British sailors in the Persian Gulf was likely connected to the holding of the five Iranian officials. The seizure of the British came three days after Nowruz, a date that the Iranian government had announced that it expected the five officials to be freed by, and which passed without their release. \"The common denominator was the Revolutionary Guards.\" Iranians being held by the US were \"Quds Force operatives\" (the foreign operation branch of the Revolutionary Guards), while the Iranian naval unit that had taken the British hostage were also Revolutionary Guards. When the Sailors were released twelve days later and the five Iranians remained in detained, \"Tehran shifted its focus\", according to Wright. One month later four Iranian Americans with dual nationalities—Ali Shakeri, Haleh Esfandiari, Kian Tajbakhsh, Parnaz Azima—were detained for unspecified `crimes against national security.`\n\nThe Iranian consular officers were: Naser Bagheri, Mousa Chegini, Abbas Hatami Kakavand, Hamid Askari Shokouh and Majid Ghaemi.\n\nUnder Iraqi law, detainees identified as insurgents should be charged in civilian courts. They may be held up to 14 days before being brought before a magistrate. These requirements appear to be systematically ignored in practice. In this incident, the Iraqi government denies that the detainees were helping insurgents.\n\nIn 2008 three of the five Iranian detainees were being held at a U.S. prison camp in Iraq. According to the United States Defense Department they were under interrogation and the U.S. had \"no plans to free them while they are seen as a security risk in Iraq\". An International Committee of the Red Cross representative met the five Iranian employees in March 2008 and reported \"they were in good health.\" However, this claim has been doubted by the families of the captured workers, stating they worry about the circumstances they were in, and whether they might be under prolonged torture by Americans to acquire false confessions. After its first consular meeting with the captives, Iran announced that the \"[detainees] have complained about their kidnapping, the US attitude and non-observance of international regulations.\"\n\nOn November 9, 2007, United States released two of the detainees (after 305 days) as well as 7 other Iranian citizens. The other seven Iranians being freed had been picked up in different parts of the country and held for periods ranging between three months and three years. Here is the list of those who were released:\n\n\"The release followed a careful review of individual records to determine if they posed a security threat to Iraq, and if their detention was of continued intelligence value,\" the American officials said in a statement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12540023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12540023", "title": "Universal Hip Hop Parade", "text": "Universal Hip Hop Parade\n\nThe Universal Hip Hop Parade (UHHP) is an annual family-friendly non-profit educational and cultural event held in the historically Black neighbourhood of Bedford Stuyvesant Brooklyn on the Saturday before the anniversary of Marcus Garvey's August 17 birthday to bring to mind that Marcus Garvey himself also used popular culture as a tool to empower people and encouraged the growth of Black institutions.\nThe parade holds the distinction of being the world's longest celebration of Hip-hop culture. It covers all the traditional elements of Hip hop including rappers, break dancers, singers and actors performing both on floats and on foot. Additionally, graffiti artists and deejay’s perform at different locations along the parade route.\n\nThe parade also presents other examples of the vibrant artistic and cultural life of the community including stilt walkers, motorcycle & van clubs, graffiti banner displays, marching bands, sound trucks, dancers and more. Additionally Hip-hop legends, elected officials, community activists and legendary MC’s have participated.\nThe parade also serves to display the emerging neighborhood of Bedford Stuyvesant, including its arts, culture and growing commercial district to the residents from other neighborhoods of New York City as well as other visitors to the area. Local organizations showcase their artistic creativity, membership and colors while promoting their services, events and products. Neighborhood businesses and institutions along the route play music and distribute giveaways to help create a festive environment. Residents and visitors alike are urged to participate and join the parade procession..\n\nThe Universal Hip Hop Parade was founded by Jeffery Kazembe Batts, Charles Barron, Freedom Williams and a host of activists in the fall of 1999 to celebrate the African American cultural social activist roots of hip-hop culture. It is an outgrowth of the work of an earlier group, the Universal Nubian Association (UNA). Organizers come from across the NYC metropolitan area and have agreed to organize the UHHP in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn.\n\nIn 2007 The Parade Made a Major Transition with Making the Mover and Shaker Out of Bed Stuy Brooklyn Mike Hollywood Christie aka Dj Dr Hollywood at the Helm and He took the Organization to New Heights with Monthly Open Mic's and Helping the Parade Reach its highest viewing numbers to date. Mike Hollywood Christie was the Parade Chairman from 2007 - 2011 and August 2013 - March 2014.\n\nIn addition to running the parade itself the nonprofit group Universal Hip-Hop Parade Foundation, Inc. also organizes forums, concerts, open-mike's, rallies, teach-ins and parties throughout the year.\n\nThe foundation is funded through private donations and grants including the Greater New York Development Fund of the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, administrated by the Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3812580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3812580", "title": "Washington State Apple Blossom Festival", "text": "Washington State Apple Blossom Festival\n\nThe Washington State Apple Blossom Festival is a festival held annually in Wenatchee, Washington from the last weekend in April to the first weekend in May. The festival, first held in 1920, has grown from a one-day event to an eleven-day affair including a carnival, golf tournament, food fair, multiple parades, an arts and crafts fair, entertainment on a stage in Memorial Park, and other amusements.\n\nThe Washington State Apple Blossom Festival, originally called \"Blossom Days\", was founded in 1919 to celebrate the importance of the apple industry to the region. The Ladies Musical Club produced the first festival in 1920, a one-day event in Memorial Park involving songs, speeches, maypoles, and baseball. The festival's relative success in drawing in large crowds from the area assured the continuation of the festival in subsequent years. In 1921, the Commercial Club, forerunner of the Wenatchee Valley Chamber of Commerce, took over sponsorship of the celebration.\n\nWhen the festival began again after World War II, the festival was renamed the Washington State Apple Blossom Festival to more accurately reflect the importance of the apple industry in North Central Washington.\n\nIn 1967, Wenatchee established a sister city relationship with the Aomori Apple Blossom Festival in Japan.\n\n"}
