{"id": "40525724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40525724", "title": "American Bell Association International", "text": "American Bell Association International\n\nThe American Bell Association International, Inc. is a nonprofit organization devoted to the collection, preservation, restoration, and research of bells in which members can attend regional chapter events and an annual national convention. Forty three U.S. chapters and an additional five international chapters are recognized by the American Bell Association International; global membership is 1,200 persons. The organization is often referred to as the ABA; it is one of over 100 names that applies this acronym.\n\nThe American Bell Association International started in 1940 as The National Bell Collector's Club by several women staying at the Chautauqua Institution in New York State, and the organization initiated a monthly printed publication, \"The Bell Tower\", named in honor of the Miller Bell Tower at the institution. In 1989 \"The Bell Tower\" became a bi-monthly printed publication and has remained so since. Content of \"The Bell Tower\" is varied, ranging from miniature collectible bells to huge tower bells.\n\nThe first American Bell Association International annual convention took place in Chicago, Illinois in 1946. The fifth annual convention was held in New York, New York and featured in \"The New Yorker\", which covered one of the American Bell Association International's founders, Mary A. Collins, and Bells of Sarna by the founder of present day company S.S. Sarna. The most recent (2015) annual convention will be held in Kansas City, MO. The annual convention is held in a different state each year. Chapters of the American Bell Association International have various meeting schedules and convene two or more times per year. Chapter meetings generally include five main components. A social phase allows members to meet and converse. Presentations allow members and/or experts to disseminate information about a focus or discipline regarding bells and may take such forms as digital and/or oral lectures. A business discussion phase addresses chapter goals and achievements. A display period allows members to provide viewings of items from their bell collections, and an exchange period presents members the opportunity to buy, sell, and/or trade items.\n\nAmerican Bell Association International members include(d) authors of books on travel to find bells, collecting bells as a hobby, bells as culturally significant instruments, and campanology. The American Bell Association International is recommended by the Smithsonian Institution as the source from which public inquiries may obtain information about bells. The symbol of The American Bell Association International is a bell reported by the donor (the organization’s 14th president) to have belonged to Ulysses S. Grant.\n\n"}
{"id": "23378367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23378367", "title": "Angst und Vorurteil", "text": "Angst und Vorurteil\n\nAngst und Vorurteil: AIDS-Ängste als Gegenstand der Vorurteilsforschung (German: \"Fear and prejudice: AIDS paranoia from the view of scientific prejudice studies\") is a sociology book written by German sociologist, ethnologist, and sexologist Gisela Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg that was first published in 1989.\n\nIn 1988, due to her former scientific achievements Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg was appointed member of the parliamentary inquiry commission \"Enquetekommission AIDS\" that was formed in order to research into the disease's social, cultural, legal, and public health care consequences and challenges. While the commission's 1990 final report focussed entirely on bio-chemical epidemiology and prevention, Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg's influence was incorporated mostly into its 1989 preliminary report dealing rather with sociological, cultural, and legal aspects.\n\nThe book \"Angst und Vorurteil - AIDS-Ängste als Gegenstand der Vorurteilsforschung\" was based on the work of the \"Enquetekommission AIDS\", as well as Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg's own final report brought forth in parliamentary hearings and towards the Helmut Kohl administration.\n\nIn \"Angst und Vorurteil\", Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg on the one hand supplements the structural history of Western \"Leibfeindlichkeit\" (repression of sensuality) she related at a fuller scope in \"Tabu Homosexualität\" before, by pointing out in \"Angst und Vorurteil\" further aspects she had already brushed on in \"Der pädophile Impuls\" four years earlier. According to \"Angst und Vorurteil\", an important derivational motivation of \"Leibfeindlichkeit\" was an intense connotation that was at first numinous, then mythological, then religious in nature, of sexual deviance with divine punishments for it, particularly natural disasters and epidemics. An obvious, exemplary line originated from the Old Testament where leprosy was God's just answer to sensual sins, especially sins of the flesh; by the Medieval Age, the Black Death had taken the former place of leprosy in ecclesiastical dogma. Just when early science dawned, syphilis came from across the ocean to the Old World, perpetuating the ancient cultural notions repressive towards sensuality by seemingly confirming the idea that lose sexual morals resulted in severe epidemics of fatal diseases.\n\nWestern society's own cultural misconception of sexuality only supported perpetuation of these ancient cultural notions, as this misconception saw sexuality as purely procreative and thus purely penetrative in nature, whereas any non-penetrative sexual activity, while actually running a lower risk of STD infection, was regarded as deviant and sinful. Thereby Western science was barred from even just slightly disposing all the religious and cultural superstitions pertaining to sexuality that the Enlightenment did away with in most any other field beside sexuality. Finally, the next significant loosening of traditional Western mores occurring after WWII, caused by penicillin and the anti-baby pill, was rolled back effectively in quite a similar reactionary process when HIV and AIDS arrived during the early 1980s, with quite similar cultural patterns as before of rationalizing derivations as ideological justifications, such as moral panics and witch hunts concerning factual or putative sexual minorities aka deviants.\n\nOn the other hand, in \"Angst und Vorurteil\" Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg gives a thorough, comprehensive description of post-WWII scientific prejudice studies, particularly regarding the re-inforcement of traditional Western \"Leibfeindlichkeit\" (prejudices directed against factual or putative sexual deviance) triggered by HIV, and chronicles the field's academic history from its roots.\n\nBleibtreu-Ehrenberg's understanding of prejudice therein is largely informed by Critical Theory and its concept of the \"Authoritarian personality\" (also see \"Right-wing authoritarianism\"), but also incorporates, among other schools of prejudice studies, \"Labeling theory\" by George Herbert Mead and Howard S. Becker, \"Social identity theory\" by Henri Tajfel and John Turner, \"Frustration-Aggression hypothesis\" by John Dollard and Neal E. Miller, \"Social learning theory\" by Albert Bandura, as well as \"dispositif\" and \"discourse analysis\" by Michel Foucault.\n\nAs one important pattern of prejudice can be named, according to Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg, that prejudice's main social function is creating and maintaining the in-group's social cohesiveness, united against a constructed foe or enemy identity (\"Feindbild\") tagged on marginalized out-groups that are thus perceived as threatening and must be overcome by harsh measures correlating to how outrageous and abominable these minorities are perceived by the majority in-group.\n\nWithout such a negative out-group identity, there is no cohesiveness for the majority in-group which itself is based on the Authoritarian personality type, and indeed the positive in-group identity is only created as a response to the constructed negative out-group identity. The majority in-group conceives itself, its own role and identity, as direct opposite of these marginalized out-groups down to every detail; filthy sinners and other outsiders or aliens, who are basically regarded as evil incarnate and often tagged with dehumanizing, partly zoomorphic attributes, are contrasted with good, decent, law-abiding citizens, as the most dichotomous, yet most basic socio-cultural and socio-psychological distinction in Western and Indo-European culture and civilization since the beginning of the Iron Age.\n\nRegarding the dehumanizing and zoomorphic attributes given to social out-groups, it is important to remember the influential cultural precursor quintessentially found in the archetype of the non-human, demonic, shape-shifting \"nithing\" fiend from \"Tabu Homosexualität\" (see the book's own article).\n\nBleibtreu-Ehrenberg links this in-group vs. out-group conflict model closely with neo-Freudian psychology, particularly the psychological apparatus of Id, ego, and super-ego and the defense mechanism of psychological projection, in its socio-cultural interpretation of the Authoritarian personality type brought forth by Critical Theory. Early on, from earliest childhood, people's socialization consists of internalizing the difference of \"good\" and \"evil\" impulses, resulting in a psychological apparatus where those impulses labeled as the most \"evil\" and \"filthiest\" are separated from conscious ego by work of the super-ego consisting of the most forcefully internalized social values, and by means of psychological repression the repressed impulses turn into the unconscious Id.\n\nThe more forceful and restrictive the socialization, the more authoritarian a super-ego will result, and the behavioral result of internalizing these restrictive traditional values is at first learning to masochistically deny and repress certain impulses, then later on the continuously pent-up frustration is acted out as sadistically passing on these restrictive values on to others, which in case of the in-group's intention to inflict in-group values upon a minority out-group as a whole shows as discrimination all over Allport's Scale.\n\nProviding convenient targets for the Authoritarian personality's outlet, the negative out-group identity is created as a convenient projection screen made out of the repressed impulses; lowering the inhibition threshold for all kinds of discrimination including structural violence and even physical violence, the minority out-group is tagged with all kinds of negative attributes, partly dehumanizing, partly pathologizing, partly such mental and behavioral attributes that are factually harmful.\n\nThis process only works because the out-group is defined by not only imaginary or constructed attributes, but also by its factual attributes. The conscious mind of Authoritarian in-group members cannot even distinguish on the one hand between the out-group's factual and imaginary attributes, perceiving either as equally real. On the other hand, these in-group members are mentally incapable of distinguishing between any of the constructed imaginary attributes, as out-group members stereotypically appear to them as altogether and nothing but pathological, menacing, dangerous, abominable, and criminal, or, in a word, plain \"evil\".\n\nBleibtreu-Ehrenberg thus defines Authoritarian prejudice as socially learned manifest, recurring intrusive thoughts (\"Zwangsvorstellungen\") that may spill over into Allport's Scale discrimination, including violent hate crimes, as a form of obsessive-compulsive behavior (\"Zwangshandlung\"; also see Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder). Due to what Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg terms \"distorted perception\" (\"verzerrte Wahrnehmung\", relating to Altemeyer's \"compartmentalized thinking\") of constructed social reality, the prejudiced aggressor regards themselves as a rectifying, maybe curing agent, as an upholder of \"natural order\" and \"society\", and/or as protector of people they perceive as \"victims\" of the discriminated.\n\nAlthough ethnocentric prejudice is often pseudo-scientifically rationalized in Western modernity, it is inherently both modern Authoritarian and archaically numinous (i. e. a form of \"irrational\" related to magical thinking), in such that the following characteristics apply to prejudice:\n\n\nAs the human mind's cognitive structures are naturally disposed to both consciously and unconsciously gather and process information constantly in order to relate to the outside world, to oneself, and to one's own relations to the world (in other words, man constantly seeks and constructs sense, meaning, association, and belonging in order to understand and cope) also and most foremost in a social sense (\"Who am I, and how do I relate to the social continuum around me?\"), and because individual cognitive capabilities are as limited as that the individual is required to widely rely on social conventions in everyday life (which in combination with decreased instinctual drives is the origin of cognitive disposition towards \"social learning\" in primates), Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg posits that if no more positive social identity relating to one's traits is available, then even the most negative social identity, no matter with what aggressive and harmful behavior it is associated, is preferred to total loss of identity.\n\nAs also individual social identity, i. e. what social group(s) an individual identifies with due to their traits, is socially learned, it is that the more Authoritarian and hostile the prejudiced discourse on a particular out-group, the fewer positive social identities are available to be acquired by individual out-group members. Therefore, the behavior-guiding individual social identity of out-group members is strongly influenced by the stigmatizing labels applied by the majority in-group, and prejudice may yield the very pathological traits, the very aggressive, harmful, even criminal behavior in individual out-group members that out-groups are said to indulge in. In short, the majority in-group's dominant prejudices can thereby result in a self-fulfilling prophecy, a process which Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg dubs \"self-maintenance of prejudice\" (\"Selbststabilisierung des Vorurteils\"). For this reason, Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg dedicated \"Angst und Vorurteil\" to the prefaced motto \"Minderheitenschutz ist Mehrheitenschutz\" (\"Protecting minorities (from prejudice) helps protect the majority.\")\n\nFurthermore, Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg expressly incorporates structural violence of the state, including involuntary medico-therapeutical intervention, as a form of discrimination, considering it a regulating, standardizing \"dispositif\" motivating further discrimination by \"vigilant\" individuals. Due to laws born out of ethnocentric prejudice, their potential to motivate \"vigilant\" hate crimes, and the tendency of dominant severe prejudice to self-fulfill, another prominent adage of the book is \"Falsche Gesetze zeitigen echte Verbrechen\" (\"False laws ripen into true crimes.\") which is also included in Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg's 1972 fiction novel \"Deutschlands Hoffnung\", and her 1985/88 work \"Der pädophile Impuls\".\n\nThroughout Western history, particularly factual or putative sexual deviance could only be seen as pathologically and thus counter-naturally motivated, harmful and corrupting in its consequences, criminal according to the laws, heinous and despicable to any decent person's sentience and morals, basically just plain \"evil\". Most social out-groups in history were constructed by associating them with lewdness and sexual deviance, or, due to taboo making sexual deviance unmentionable directly, by means of cultural codifications for such that Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg related in detail after chronicling their cultural origins in \"Tabu Homosexualität\".\n\nSuch cultural codes for lewdness and sexual deviance particularly included sadism, insidiousness, madness, weakness, cowardice, untrustworthiness, obsessive lying, betrayal, treason, evil sorcery, satanism, witchcraft, intoxicating drugs and poisoning potions, laziness, stubbornness, waywardness, incorrigibility, physical diseases and ailments (especially limping). These cultural codifications always have been, until the present day, largely identical with the imaginary, or constructed, attributes that sexual minorities were, and are, tagged with.\n\nAdditional such codifying associations were patterned according to particular sexual deviances, in such that these particular sexual minorities were perceived as either biologically or mentally faulted in a way that associated them with those social groups or social categories that their particular sexuality was regarded as naturally belonging to; for instance, gay males were regarded as effeminate, i. e. womanish, as women were regarded as the only category of people that could legitimately feel sexual desire towards men.\n\nBleibtreu-Ehrenberg criticizes as ineffective the traditional approach to prejudice of assuming that personal contact with out-group members might decrease prejudice towards their group, by pointing out, for instance, the societal situation of Jewish people in Austria-Hungary prior to World War I. Even though the percentage of Jews in population was much lower in the German Empire and thus Germans had much fewer personal contacts with Jews, anti-Semitism was much more common and radical in Austria-Hungary than it was in Germany at the time. Bleibtreu-Ehrenberg explains this pattern as due to above-mentioned \"self-maintenance of prejudice\", the fact that \"prejudice seeks to self-corroborate\", and prejudice's tendency to self-fulfill.\n\nBleibtreu-Ehrenberg lists three assumptively more effective countering strategies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7082406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082406", "title": "Anthropology of media", "text": "Anthropology of media\n\nAnthropology of media (also anthropology of mass media, media anthropology) is an area of study within social or cultural anthropology that emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and social aspects of mass media.\n\nThe use of qualitative methods, particularly ethnography, distinguishes media anthropology from other disciplinary approaches to mass media. Within media studies, media ethnographies have been of increasing interest since the 1980s. However, as Stephen Putnam Hughes remarks in a recent review, these studies often do not engage in rigorous ethnographic fieldwork, ignoring or misapplying such landmark anthropological techniques as participant observation or long-term fieldwork. Given such differences, anthropologists who take an interest in the media see themselves as forming a distinct subfield from ethnographic approaches to media studies and cultural studies.\n\nThe anthropology of media is a fairly inter-disciplinary area, with a wide range of other influences. The theories used in the anthropology of media range from practice approaches, associated with theorists such as Pierre Bourdieu, as well as discussions of the appropriation and adaptation of new technologies and practices. Theoretical approaches have also been adopted from visual anthropology and from film theory, as well as from studies of ritual and performance studies (e.g. dance and theatre), studies of consumption, audience reception in media studies, new media and network theories, theories of globalisation, theories of international civil society, and discussions on participatory communications and governance in development studies.\n\nThe types of ethnographic contexts explored in the anthropology of media range from contexts of media production (e.g., ethnographies of newsrooms in newspapers, journalists in the field, film production) to contexts of media reception, following audiences in their everyday responses to media such as newspaper cartoons (Khanduri 2014). Other types include cyber anthropology, a relatively new area of internet research, as well as ethnographies of other areas of research which happen to involve media, such as development work, social movements, human rights or health education. This is in addition to many classic ethnographic contexts, where media such as radio, the press, new media and television(Mankekar 1999, Abu-Lughod 2005) have started to make their presences felt since the early 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4705163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4705163", "title": "Batahin", "text": "Batahin\n\nThe Batahin are an Arab tribe in Butana, a region in Sudan. The Batahin are Arabic-speaking Muslims, and number about 200,000.\n"}
{"id": "43959614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43959614", "title": "Belarusian Canadians", "text": "Belarusian Canadians\n\nBelarusian Canadians are Canadian citizens of Belarusian descent or Belarusian-born people residing in Canada. According to the 2011 Census there were 15,565 Canadians who claimed Belarusian ancestry. \n\n"}
{"id": "48520884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48520884", "title": "Blackout Day", "text": "Blackout Day\n\nBlackout Day is a social media event which encourages the posting of content that was created by and features everyday black people. Specific tags e.g. #TheBlackout and #BlackoutDay are used to connect users to that content and to increase the visibility of that content. Blackout Day launched on March 6, 2015, and after December 21, 2015, is scheduled to be held on the sixth day of every third month, starting with March 6, 2016.\n\nThe event was conceived in early February 2015 by Tumblr user T’von Green. Green noticed that there was a lack of black representation on social media, specifically on Tumblr;“Damn, I’m not seeing enough Black people on my dash. Of course I see a constant amount of Black celebrities but what about the regular people? Where is their shine”.\n\nIn addition, he noticed that when black people were depicted it was usually in a negative light. Research has shown that Black images in the media adversely affect how members of the Black community view themselves. These harmful images are not only seen by the Black community, but by everyone who has access to a media outlet. Although images of Black people have increased in mass media, those images have been disproportionally harmful due to their violent and crime related content. Generally, if Black people are not being depicted as criminals, they are represented as entertainers such as athletes or musicians. Having these two polar identities of a lawless individual and highly adored star leaves a spectrum of people in the Black community unrepresented. While associating Blacks with athleticism is not harmful in itself, it becomes harmful when that is one of the only thing Blacks are associate with. This reality led to an ethical need for positive and relatable images of the black community on platforms like social media. Concerned about these issues Green decided to gain feedback on his idea by going on Tumblr and through those interactions he met Marissa Sebastian, who came up with the name behind the movement and later on became the PR and CEO of the movement, and Tumblr user V. Matthew-King Yarde (known as Nukrik on social media) the creator behind the various logos for the event. Blackout Day was created as a 24-hour event that would expose the online black community and others on social media to positive images of everyday beautiful black individuals, through selfies, videos, gifs and other media. Its goal was simple, shed a positive light on black individuals and cripple stereotypes. The idea spread quickly once given a name, and gained supporters within the black Tumblr community. An official website was created to help the online black community access up to date information on when and how it would work. Before the event, the creators posted guidelines on who could participate and how to do so.\n\nAfter the event launched, the creators decided to make it a monthly event, on every first Friday of every month, but the frequency was an issue for a majority of supporters who believed that the event would not have a significant impact if it was a too frequent and they felt as though it should be a yearly event on the day it was first launch, which was an issue for the creators and also other supporters who thought the frequency should be increased. They changed it to a seasonal themed event that would occur on the 21st of September and December until January 2016, where it would be changed to fall on the 6th of every third month. Each Blackout Day would be themed around black heritage/history and participants are encouraged to post content surrounding the given theme.\n\nThe guidelines to Blackout are as follows;\nOfficial hashtags used are \"#TheBlackout\" and \"#BlackoutDay\"\n\nAccording to Twitter analytic service Topsy, the hashtag #BlackOutDay was one of the top trending hashtags on Twitter in the United States, with over 58,000 tweets by noon and was a trending topic on Facebook. The creators received national attention for their creative digital activism and used this attention as leverage to start a dialogue about race and the portrayal of black people in the media in and out of social media. Outside of social media they seek to keep the dialogues open through partnerships and have collaborated with Book Riot, and extended the partnership by sponsoring 22 black avid readers and writers. However, the event did not go without opposition hashtags such as #Whiteout were created as a public objection against the movement. The principle was the same as Blackout, but featured selfies of white people. The creators addressed this issue politely by reiterating their movement’s goal. Other minority groups have tried unsuccessfully, to mimic the movement by creating variations that are similar to the original #Blackoutday e.g. #Yellowoutday, #Brownoutday, etc. The creators suggested that they be more original and create tags that were more distinguishable from theirs.\n\nOther minority groups have since utilized digital activism to open up dialogues on different topics such as, cultural appropriation, media representation of certain ethnicity groups, racial profiling and etc. For instance, Reclaim the Bindi showcases how South Asian/South East Asian or Hindu cultural clothing are not fashion accessories that should be used for festivals, but rather sacred clothing with a significant spiritual and cultural meaning.\n\nTypically Tumblr is characterized as the social media platform at the center of this cyberactivism. It is apply stereotyped as younger, progressive and more female driven than other forms of social media. The result is a space in which minority voices are given the type of attention they are denied in the mainstream. The site contains many sections and groups, but the one labeled \"Social Justice Tumblr\" is typically characterized as a bold prosecution of injustice. Blackout Day is thus an extension of this activism. It deviates from the typical approaches however, because its brand of social justice exists through the creation of the carefree black girl and black boy narrative. Through this narrative Blackout Day carves out a space for blackness separate from the many issues surrounding black bodies. Instead of raising awareness of the injustices, it celebrates the vastness of contemporary blackness.\n"}
{"id": "25351920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25351920", "title": "Bright young things", "text": "Bright young things\n\nThe Bright Young Things, or Bright Young People, was a nickname given by the tabloid press to a group of bohemian young aristocrats and socialites in 1920s London. They threw elaborate fancy dress parties, went on elaborate treasure hunts through nighttime London, and some drank heavily or used drugs — all of which was enthusiastically covered by journalists such as Tom Driberg. They inspired a number of writers, including Nancy Mitford (\"Highland Fling\"), Anthony Powell (\"A Dance to the Music of Time\"), Henry Green (\"Party Going\") and the poet John Betjeman. Evelyn Waugh's 1930 novel \"Vile Bodies\", adapted as the 2003 film \"Bright Young Things\", is a satirical look at this scene. Cecil Beaton began his career in photography by documenting this set, of which he was a member.\n\nThe most prominent members of the group included:\nThe following is a list of the Bright Young Things themselves, their friends, acquaintances and associates of the period, many of whom were the basis for characters in the novels written by members of the group such as Anthony Powell and Nancy Mitford, as indicated in the table below.\n\n"}
{"id": "3523142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523142", "title": "Casualty notification", "text": "Casualty notification\n\nCasualty notification is the process of notifying relatives of people who have been killed or seriously injured unexpectedly (for example, in a car crash). The notification may be done over the phone or in person, but is normally done by a police officer in person when possible, at least for the next of kin.\n\nIn the case of the United States armed forces, the notification is done by a specialist known as a casualty notification officer (CNO), normally within four hours of learning of the casualty (but only from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. local time) or, for the Navy, by a casualty assistance calls officer (CACO).\n\nDenny Hayes, who spent fifteen years as a chaplain for the FBI’s critical response team, says:\n\n\"You can’t make it better,\" said Dr. Nancy Davis, former chief of counseling services for the FBI. \"But you can definitely make it worse.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20557973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20557973", "title": "Cuvier Press Club", "text": "Cuvier Press Club\n\nThe Cuvier Press Club was a Cincinnati, Ohio social club created in 1911 when the members of the Cuvier Club merged with the members of the Pen and Pencil Club.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1938, the club was located on Opera Place. In 1938, the club moved to 22 Garfield Place, which would come to be known as the Cuvier Press Club.\n\nAmong other activities, the Club held an annual Halloween parade, which was attended by a crowd of approximately 50,000 in downtown Cincinnati, all of whom were presumably unaware of the fear that gripped the nation during the infamous 1938 \"War of the Worlds\" radio broadcast by Orson Welles.\n\nA 1947 article from the Cincinnati Post includes a note that, during a 2-day time period, the club had experienced the deaths of 3 of its members: William C. Lambert, Stuart Heckerman, and Don G. Gardner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35710836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35710836", "title": "David Weisburd", "text": "David Weisburd\n\nDavid L. Weisburd (born 1954), is an Israeli/American criminologist who is well known for his research on crime and place, policing and white collar crime. Weisburd was the 2010 recipient of the prestigious Stockholm Prize in Criminology, and was recently awarded the Israel Prize in Social Work and Criminological Research, considered the state's highest honor. Weisburd holds joint tenured appointments as Distinguished Professor of Criminology, Law and Society at George Mason University. and Walter E. Meyer Professor of Law and Criminal Justice in the Institute of Criminology of the Hebrew University Faculty of Law, At George Mason University Weisburd was founder of the Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy and is now its executive director. Weisburd also serves as Chief Science Advisor at the National Police Foundation in Washington, D.C., and chair of its Research Advisory Committee. Weisburd was the founding editor of the Journal of Experimental Criminology, and is now the general editor of the Journal of Quantitative Criminology.\n\nWeisburd is a prolific researcher, who by 2018 had received more than $15 million in competitive grant funding and published over 25 books, 125 journal articles and 75 book chapters. Weisburd is best known for his work in place-based criminology, experimental criminology, and white-collar crime.\n\nWeisburd's research on place-based criminology has demonstrated the importance of focusing on the role geographic microplaces, such as street blocks, play in explaining crime. For instance, in a 1995 study in Jersey City, New Jersey Weisburd found that between 15% and 20% of all crime was generated by 56 drug market hot spots. In a recent longitudinal study of crime concentrations in Seattle, Washington: Weisburd and his colleagues found that between 5% and 6% of street segments in the city generated over 50% of the crime incidents each year. Importantly, this research also showed that these crime concentrations remained stable across time and place over the 16-year study period. Weisburd has also replicated these findings in Tel Aviv, Israel, where almost the same levels of concentration were found as in his Seattle Study. In Weisburd's Sutherland Address to the American Society of Criminology in 2015 he argued that the consistency of crime concentrations across cities and across time was so great that it suggested a Law of Crime Concentration at Places.\n\nWeisburd's research has also repeatedly demonstrated the importance of these findings for crime prevention policy, particularly in the area of policing. With the focus on explaining crime through place-based factors, police and other crime prevention agencies have stable targets on which to focus their efforts. Beginning with a ground-breaking experimental study with Lawrence Sherman in 1995, Weisburd's research has repeatedly shown the efficacy of focusing police crime prevention resources on small hot spots of crime. Specifically, this body of research shows that crime and disorder is significantly reduced in targeted hot spots and that crime does not simply displace to nearby areas. In fact, Weisburd's research suggests that it is more likely that crime in nearby areas which received no extra police attention will also likely be reduced—a phenomenon that has been termed diffusion of crime control benefits. Weisburd's recent work has examined the impact of different types of police tactics in crime hot spots on people frequenting these targeted areas. One recent study examined the impact of police crackdowns on disorder on residents, while another focused on the New York Police department's usage of stop and frisks of suspicious persons.\n\nRelated to this work, Weisburd has also advanced the importance of randomized controlled trials in evaluating crime and justice policies and programs. Randomized, experimental designs produce the most valid and reliable evidence on the impact of policies or interventions, and thus Weisburd argues the field has a moral imperative to use experimental designs whenever feasible. His work in this area has also shown that there is a paradox in experimental studies, in which increasing sample size often has the unintended consequence of reducing the observed statistical power of a study.\n\nFinally, Weisburd has also made significant contributions to our understanding of white-collar crime. In a large-scale empirical study of white-collar crime, he found that white-collar criminals were often from the middle classes, had multiple contacts with the criminal justice system, and that much white-collar crime was mundane and everyday in character.\n\nWeisburd started his college career at Shimer College, leaving in 1973 to attend Brandeis University. Weisburd graduated magna cum laude in 1976, with a B.A. in sociology from Brandeis University, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Weisburd did his graduate studies at Yale University, where he received an M.A. in sociology in 1978, an M.Phil. in sociology in 1980 and a Ph.D. in sociology in 1985.\n\nWeisburd is currently a distinguished professor of criminology, law and society at George Mason University and the Walter E. Meyer Professor of Law and Criminal Justice of the Hebrew University Faculty of Law, and Prior to these appointments at Hebrew University and George Mason University, Weisburd served as a member of the faculty at the University of Maryland, College Park from 2002 to 2008 and Rutgers University from 1985 to 1993. Weisburd has also had a number of visiting and honorary appointments. These include a visiting professorship appointment at the Key Centre for Ethics, Law, Justice and Governance at Griffiths University in Brisbane, Australia in 2004, visiting scholar at the University of Cambridge in 2007, and honorary professor at the Zehjiang Police College in Hangzhou, China in 2011.\n\nWeisburd has also held a number of research positions, in addition to his academic appointments. These included serving as a senior research associate at the Vera Institute in New York from 1984 to 1985, executive director of the Center for Crime Prevention Studies at Rutgers University from 1995 to 1996 (where Weisburd was also director from 1990 to 1995), senior research scientist at the Police Foundation in Washington, D.C. from 1997 to 2000 (where Weisburd is currently a senior fellow and chair of its research advisory committee), and visiting research fellow at the Netherlands Institute for the Study of Crime and Law Enforcement in Leiden, the Netherlands from 2004 to 2006.\n\nWeisburd was awarded the Stockholm Prize in Criminology, the top honor in the field, in 2010. Weisburd has also been the recipient of numerous other awards and honors for his work in criminology and criminal justice. Most recently, he was awarded the Israel Prize in Social Work and Criminological Research, considered the state's highest honor. In 2014, Weisburd received the Edwin H. Sutherland Award from the American Society of Criminology(ASC), and in 2017 he received the August Vollmer Award for contributions to crime prevention from the ASC. In 2016 he received the ASC's Mentoring Award. In 2014 he received the Jerry Lee Lifetime Achievement Award from the Division of Experimental Criminology of the American Society of Criminology, and the Robert Boruch Award for Distinctive Contributions to Research that Informs Public Policy by the Campbell Collaboration. In 2011, Weisburd was awarded the Klachky Family Award for Advances on the Frontiers of Science from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In 2010, Weisburd was awarded the Minister's Prize for Outstanding Scientists, Ministry of Immigrant Absorption in Israel. In 2008, he was presented with the Joan McCord Award for Outstanding Contributions to Experimental Criminology by the Academy of Experimental Criminology, where he was also elected as a fellow in 2001. In 2005, Weisburd was elected as an honorary fellow of the American Society of Criminology.\n\n"}
{"id": "255971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255971", "title": "Death in Venice", "text": "Death in Venice\n\nDeath in Venice is a novella written by the German author Thomas Mann and was first published in 1912 as Der Tod in Venedig. The work presents a great writer suffering writer's block who visits Venice and is liberated, uplifted, and then increasingly obsessed, by the sight of a stunningly beautiful youth. Though he never speaks to the boy, much less touches him, the writer finds himself drawn deep into ruinous inward passion; meanwhile, Venice, and finally, the writer himself, succumb to a cholera plague.\n\nThe novella is powerfully intertextual, with the chief sources being first the connection of erotic love to philosophical wisdom traced in Plato's \"Symposium\" and \"Phaedrus\", and second the Nietzschean contrast between the god of restraint and shaping form, Apollo, and the god of excess and passion, Dionysus.\n\nTadzio, the boy in the story, is the nickname for the Polish name \"Tadeusz\" and based on a boy Mann had seen during his visit to Venice in 1911.\n\nThe main character is Gustav von Aschenbach, a famous author in his early fifties who has recently been ennobled in honor of his artistic achievement (thus acquiring the aristocratic \"von\" in his name). He is a man dedicated to his art, disciplined and ascetic to the point of severity, who was widowed at a young age. As the story opens, he is strolling outside a cemetery and sees a coarse-looking red-haired foreigner who stares back at him belligerently. Aschenbach walks away, embarrassed but curiously stimulated. He has a vision of a primordial swamp-wilderness, fertile, exotic and full of lurking danger. Soon afterwards, he resolves to take a holiday.\n\nAfter a false start in traveling to Pula on the Austro-Hungarian coast, Aschenbach realizes he was \"meant\" to go to Venice and takes a suite in the Grand Hôtel des Bains on the Lido island. While shipbound and en route to the island, he sees an elderly man in company with a group of high-spirited youths, who has tried hard to create the illusion of his own youth with a wig, false teeth, make-up, and foppish attire. Aschenbach turns away in disgust. Later he has a disturbing encounter with an unlicensed gondolier—another red-haired, skull-faced foreigner—who repeats \"I can row you well\" when Aschenbach orders him to return to the wharf.\n\nAschenbach checks into his hotel, where at dinner he sees an aristocratic Polish family at a near-by table. Among them is an adolescent boy of about fourteen in a sailor suit. Aschenbach, startled, realizes that the boy is supremely beautiful, like a Greek sculpture. His older sisters, by contrast, are so severely dressed that they look like nuns. Later, after spying the boy and his family at a beach, Aschenbach overhears the lad's name, Tadzio, and conceives what he first interprets as an uplifting, artistic interest.\n\nSoon the hot, humid weather begins to affect Aschenbach's health, and he decides to leave early and move to a cooler location. On the morning of his planned departure, he sees Tadzio again, and a powerful feeling of regret sweeps over him. When he reaches the railway station and discovers his trunk has been misplaced, he pretends to be angry, but is really overjoyed; he decides to remain in Venice and wait for his lost luggage. He happily returns to the hotel and thinks no more of leaving.\n\nOver the next days and weeks, Aschenbach's interest in the beautiful boy develops into an obsession. He watches him constantly and secretly follows him around Venice. One evening, the boy directs a charming smile at him, looking, Aschenbach thinks, like Narcissus smiling at his own reflection. Disconcerted, Aschenbach rushes outside, and in the empty garden whispers aloud, \"I love you!\"\n\nAschenbach next takes a trip into the city of Venice, where he sees a few discreetly worded notices from the Health Department warning of an unspecified contagion and advising people to avoid eating shellfish. He smells an unfamiliar strong odour everywhere, later realising it is disinfectant. However, the authorities adamantly deny that the contagion is serious and tourists continue to wander round the city, oblivious. Aschenbach at first ignores the danger because it somehow pleases him to think that the city's disease is akin to his own hidden, corrupting passion for the boy. During this period, a third red-haired and disreputable-looking man crosses Aschenbach's path; this one belongs to a troupe of street singers who entertain at the hotel one night. Aschenbach listens entranced to songs that, in his former life, he would have despised – all the while stealing glances at Tadzio, who is leaning on a near-by parapet in a classically beautiful pose. The boy eventually returns Aschenbach's glances, and, though the moment is brief, it instills in the writer a sense that the attraction may be mutual.\n\nNext, Aschenbach rallies his self-respect and decides to discover the reason for the health notices posted in the city. After being repeatedly assured that the sirocco is the only health risk, he finds a British travel agent who reluctantly admits that there is a serious cholera epidemic in Venice. Aschenbach considers warning Tadzio's mother of the danger; however, he decides not to, knowing that if he does, Tadzio will leave the hotel and be lost to him.\n\nOne night, a dream filled with orgiastic Dionysian imagery reveals to him the sexual nature of his feelings for Tadzio. Afterwards, he begins staring at the boy so openly and following him so persistently that Aschenbach feels the boy's guardians have finally noticed, and they take to warning Tadzio whenever he approaches too near the strange, solitary man. But Aschenbach's feelings, though passionately intense, remain unvoiced; he never touches Tadzio, or even speaks to him; and while there is some indication that Tadzio is aware of his admiration, the two exchange nothing more than the occasional surreptitious glance.\n\nAschenbach begins to fret about his aging face and body. In an attempt to look more attractive, he visits the hotel's barber shop almost daily, where the barber eventually persuades him to have his hair dyed and his face painted to look more youthful. The result is a fairly close approximation to the old man on the ship who had so appalled Aschenbach. Freshly dyed and rouged, he again shadows Tadzio through Venice in the oppressive heat. He loses sight of the boy in the heart of the city; then, exhausted and thirsty, he buys and eats some over-ripe strawberries and rests in an abandoned square, contemplating the Platonic ideal of beauty amidst the ruins of his own once-formidable dignity.\n\nA few days later, Aschenbach goes to the lobby in his hotel, feeling ill and weak, and discovers that the Polish family plan to leave after lunch. He goes down to the beach to his usual deck chair. Tadzio is there, unsupervised for once, and accompanied by an older boy, Jasiu. A fight breaks out between the two boys, and Tadzio is quickly bested; afterward, he angrily leaves his companion and wades over to Aschenbach's part of the beach, where he stands for a moment looking out to sea; then turns halfway around to look at his admirer. To Aschenbach, it is as if the boy is beckoning to him: he tries to rise and follow, only to collapse sideways into his chair.\n\nHis body is discovered a few minutes later.\n\nGustav von Aschenbach is introduced as an older famous author out for a walk in his hometown, Munich. As the clouds darken and a storm approaches, he encounters a red-haired man glaring at him, rousing a longing to travel to a place opposite to that where he resides. He believes the journey will improve his writing.\n\nThe controlled childhood past of Gustav von Aschenbach led him to follow his parents' ideals and become well-known before he had the ability to experience the stages of growing up. He is depicted as having a weakened immunity yet able to battle through it as have the main characters in his novels.\n\nHis adventure begins with a trip to the rainy Adriatic island, which does not suit Aschenbach's yearning for a wondrous new getaway, causing him to sail for Venice a few days after. On board the ship he experiences spells of dizziness as he watches those around him, in particular a group of men which appear to be young, but after close examination Aschenbach realizes one of them has used make-up, dentures, and a wig to conceal his age. When he arrives at his destination, which is again a disappointing darkness contrary to the sunlight he was expecting, this same old man drunkenly attempts to allure Aschenbach. Aschenbach transfers to a gondola headed in a suspicious direction by a criminal who later on disappears, and he likened the gondola to a coffin. Once at the hotel, Aschenbach notices a beautiful adolescent Polish boy during dinner, likened to Eros, the Greek god of love. He sees him again the next morning, later watching him play on the beach, and again riding the elevator. He discovers his name to be Tadeusz, and up close he is sighted as seeming ill, which causes Aschenbach to secretly relish in the idea of the boy dying early. Due to unfortunate weather conditions, Aschenbach decides to leave yet again, and sends off his luggage; after missing the train, he discovers his luggage was misplaced and therefore must stay in Venice a few days more. He sees the boy through his window and is delighted at having more time to spy on Tadeusz.\n\nAschenbach receives his missing luggage, but chooses to stay and analyze every beautiful piece of Tadzeusz, giving him daydreams of Socrates pursuing his student Phaedrus. This seemingly parallels his own situation, as Socrates is unattractive and elderly, while Phaedrus embodies youth and beauty. After this he delighted himself in writing about Tadzeusz's body, later almost making contact with him at the beach. As he is overcome with his obsession, he metaphorically describes the surrounding nature as Greek gods, Tadzeusz being Hyacinthus. As he watches the boy, they lock eyes and Tadzeusz gives him a smile, to which Aschenbach realizes his love for the child.\n\nSigns of an epidemic appear as the public are warned to avoid the water and shellfish, less and fewer people, and German newspaper. Secretly, Aschenbach wishes for a quarantine so he may have more time fantasizing and stalking Tadeusz. He defends his obsession by depicting it as art. The Venetians, specifically a red-headed musician Aschenbach asks, attempt to conceal the fact that an epidemic is happening by stating the bactericide is being used only as a precaution, relating to his own obsession as he attempts to conceal it as well. At a British agency, Aschenbach discovers the epidemic is cholera, coming from India. The thought of leaving is soon dismissed by the fantasy of Tadeusz with him in quarantine. At night, he has dreams of humans in beast skins worshipping a Dionysian and perverted representation in a wooden statue, which are metaphorically himself worshipping his desires. When the cholera is uncovered, tourists leave, Aschenbach takes the opportunity to attract the boy by transforming into a figure mentioned earlier (the old man on the boat attempting to look youthful with make-up and a wig), relishing in the idea of everyone else dying and leaving only Tadeusz. Aschenbach masticates on rotten strawberries as he walks down the littered streets until he reaches the beach to watch Tadeusz playing rough with his friend. When the boy notices him, he smiles and points outward. Aschenbach, however, cannot rise to meet him, and dies.\n\n Mann's original intention was to write about \"passion as confusion and degradation\", after having been fascinated by the true story of Goethe's love for 18-year-old Baroness Ulrike von Levetzow, which had led Goethe to write his \"Marienbad Elegy\". The May 1911 death of composer Gustav Mahler in Vienna and Mann's interest in the boy Władzio during summer 1911 vacation in Venice (more below) were additional experiences occupying his thoughts. He used the story to illuminate certain convictions about the relationship between life and mind, with Aschenbach representing the intellect. Mann was also influenced by Sigmund Freud and his views on dreams, as well as by philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche who had visited Venice several times.\n\nThe novella is rife with allusions from antiquity forward, especially to Greek antiquity and to German works (literary, art-historical, musical, visual) from the eighteenth century on.\n\nOne important framework of references points to Greek mythology; Aschenbach's Venice seems populated by the gods. By dedicating himself to Apollo, whom Friedrich Nietzsche's \"The Birth of Tragedy\" took to represent restraint, form and the intellect, Aschenbach has denied the power of Dionysus, Nietzsche's god of unreason and of passion – a voluntary act of what Freud would call \"suppression\". Dionysus seems to have followed Aschenbach to Venice with the intent of destroying him: the red-haired man who keeps crossing von Aschenbach's path, in the guise of different characters, could be a figure of Silenus, Dionysus's mythological chief disciple. In the Benjamin Britten opera these characters (the traveller, the gondolier, the leading player and the voice of Dionysus) are played by the same baritone singer, who also plays the hotel manager, the barber and the old man on the Vaporetto. The trope of placing classical deities in contemporary settings was popular at the time when Mann was writing \"Death in Venice\": in England, at almost the same time, E. M. Forster was at work on an entire short-story collection based on this premise. The idea of the opposition of the Apollonian and Dionysian was first proposed by Nietzsche in \"The Birth of Tragedy\" and was also a popular motif of the time.\n\nAschenbach's name and character may be inspired by the homosexual German poet August von Platen-Hallermünde. There are allusions to his poems about Venice in the novella and, like Aschenbach, he died of cholera on an Italian island. Aschenbach's first name is almost an anagram of August, and the character's last name may be derived from Platen's birthplace, Ansbach. However, the name has another clear significance: Aschenbach literally means \"ash brook\". The novella's physical description of Aschenbach was based on a photograph of the composer Gustav Mahler. Mahler had made a strong personal impression on Mann when they met in Munich, and Mann was shocked by the news of Mahler's death in Vienna. Mann gave Mahler's first name and facial appearance to Aschenbach, but did not talk about it in public. (The soundtrack of the 1971 film based on the novella made use of Mahler's compositions, particularly the \"Adagietto\" 4th movement from the Symphony No. 5).\n\nModris Eksteins notes the similarities between Aschenbach and the Russian choreographer Sergei Diaghilev, writing that, even though the two never met, \"Diaghilev knew Mann's story well. He gave copies of it to his intimates.\" Diaghilev would often stay at the same hotel as Aschenbach, the Grand Hotel des Bains, and take his young male lovers there. Eventually, like Aschenbach, Diaghilev died in Venice.\n\nMann's wife Katia (in a 1974 book) recalls that the idea for the story came during an actual vacation in Venice (staying at the Grand Hôtel des Bains on the Lido), which she and Thomas took in the summer of 1911:\n\nThe boy who inspired \"Tadzio\" was Baron Władysław Moes, whose first name was usually shortened as \"Władzio\" or just \"Adzio\". This story was uncovered by Thomas Mann's translator, Andrzej Dołęgowski, around 1964, and was published in the German press in 1965. Some sources report that Moes himself did not learn of the connection until he saw the 1971 film version of the novel.\n\nWładysław Moes was born on November 17, 1900 in Wierbka, the second son and fourth child of Baron Aleksander Juliusz Moes. He was aged 10 when he was in Venice, significantly younger than Tadzio in the novella. Baron Moes died on December 17, 1986 in Warsaw and is interred at the graveyard of Pilica, Silesian Voivodeship. He was the subject of a biography, \"The Real Tadzio\" (Short Books, 2001) by Gilbert Adair.\n\nThe novella was probably first published in English in periodical form in \"The Dial\" in 1924 over three issues (vol. LXXVI, March to May, issues # 3–5, Camden, NJ, USA), as per an advertisement by Peter Ellis (Bookseller, London, UK) for sale of a copy of those issues (www.abebooks.com, viewed Feb 2, 2011).\n\nIt was first published in book form in English in 1925 as \"Death in Venice and Other Stories\", translated by Kenneth Burke. W. H. Auden called it the definitive translation.\n\nA new translation was published in 2005 by Michael Henry Heim which won the Helen and Kurt Wolff Translation Prize.\n\n\n\n\nIn the film Annie Hall, the actress Diane Keaton tells Woody Allen that she prefers living in Los Angeles to New York City, which she finds dirty and dying and reminiscent of the book Death in Venice.\n"}
{"id": "1636796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1636796", "title": "Don Kates", "text": "Don Kates\n\nDon Bernard Kates Jr., (January 26, 1941 – November 1, 2016) was an American lawyer and research fellow with The Independent Institute in Oakland, California who focused on promoting gun rights. His scholarship and litigation played important parts in the modern renaissance of the Second Amendment. Along with Stephen Halbrook, Kates deserved the primary credit for making the Second Amendment scholarship an important topic of modern scholarly interest. His books include \"Armed: New Perspectives On Gun Control\", \"Restricting Handguns: The Liberal Skeptics Speak Out\", \"Firearms and Violence: Issues of Public Policy\", and \"The Great American Gun Debate: Essays on Firearms and Violence\" (with Gary Kleck). As a civil liberties lawyer he was retained by the National Rifle Association to represent gun owners attacking the constitutionality of certain firearms laws. The \"Washington Post\" described Kates as the \"Johnnie Cochran\" of the pro-gun lobby, noting his polemical attacks on public-health research on firearms injuries and writing that Kates \"has muddied the waters of truth so thoroughly that wading into them is a daunting task.\" Kates also wrote extensively on criminological issues related to firearms. Among his most influential policy articles is “Guns and Public Health: Epidemic of Violence or Pandemic of Propaganda?” which appeared in a symposium issue of the \"Tennessee Law Review\" in 1994. His 1983 article in the \"Michigan Law Review\" was the first time that a top-10 law journal published a detailed historical analysis of the original meaning of the Second Amendment.\n\nKates grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area and attended Reed College and Yale Law School. During the Civil rights movement, he worked in the South for civil rights lawyers including William Kunstler. Thereafter, he specialized in civil rights and police misconduct litigation for the federal War on Poverty program. After three years of teaching constitutional law, criminal law, and criminal procedure at Saint Louis University School of Law, he returned to San Francisco where he practiced law and wrote on criminology.\n\nHe was editor of \"Firearms and Violence: Issues of Public Policy\" (San Francisco: 1984, Pacific Research Institute) and the Winter 1986 issue of \"Law & Contemporary Problems\". He was author of the entry on the Second Amendment in M. Levy & K. Karst, \"The Encyclopedia of the American Constitution\"; \"Firearms and Violence: Old Premises, Current Evidence,\" in T. Gurr (ed.), \"Violence in America\" (1989); and \"Precautionary Handgun Ownership: Reasonable Choice or Dangerous Delusion,\" B. Danto (ed.), \"Gun Control and Criminal Homicide\", forthcoming (1990). Kates died on November 1, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "71376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71376", "title": "Ed Gein", "text": "Ed Gein\n\nEdward Theodore Gein (; August 27, 1906 – July 26, 1984), also known as The Butcher of Plainfield, was an American murderer and body snatcher. His crimes, committed around his hometown of Plainfield, Wisconsin, gathered widespread notoriety after authorities discovered that Gein had exhumed corpses from local graveyards and fashioned trophies and keepsakes from their bones and skin. Gein confessed to killing two women – tavern owner Mary Hogan in 1954, and a Plainfield hardware store owner, Bernice Worden, in 1957. Gein was initially found unfit to stand trial and confined to a mental health facility. In 1968, Gein was found guilty but legally insane of the murder of Worden, and was remanded to a psychiatric institution. He died at Mendota Mental Health Institute of cancer-induced liver and respiratory failure at age 77 on July 26, 1984. He is buried next to his family in the Plainfield Cemetery, in a now-unmarked grave.\n\nEd Gein was born in La Crosse County, Wisconsin, on August 27, 1906, the second of two boys of George Philip Gein (1873–1940) and Augusta Wilhelmine (née Lehrke) Gein (1878–1945). Gein had an older brother, Henry George Gein (1901–1944). Augusta despised her husband, an alcoholic who was unable to keep a job; he had worked at various times as a carpenter, tanner, and insurance salesman. George owned a local grocery shop for a few years, but sold the business, and the family left the city to live in isolation on a 155-acre farm in the town of Plainfield in Waushara County, Wisconsin, which became the Gein family's permanent residence.\n\nAugusta took advantage of the farm's isolation by turning away outsiders who could have influenced her sons. Edward left the farm only to attend school. Outside of school, he spent most of his time doing chores on the farm. Augusta was fervently religious, and nominally Lutheran. She preached to her boys about the innate immorality of the world, the evil of drinking, and her belief that all women (except herself) were naturally prostitutes and instruments of the devil. She reserved time every afternoon to read to them from the Bible, usually selecting graphic verses from the Old Testament concerning death, murder, and divine retribution.\n\nEdward was shy, and classmates and teachers remembered him as having strange mannerisms, such as seemingly random laughter, as if he were laughing at his own personal jokes. To make matters worse, his mother punished him whenever he tried to make friends. Despite his poor social development, he did fairly well in school, particularly in reading.\n\nOn April 1, 1940, Ed's father George died of heart failure caused by his alcoholism; he was 66 years old. Henry and Ed began doing odd jobs around town to help cover living expenses. The brothers were generally considered reliable and honest by residents of the community. While both worked as handymen, Ed also frequently babysat for neighbors. He enjoyed babysitting, seeming to relate more easily to children than adults. Henry began dating a divorced, single mother of two and planned on moving in with her; Henry worried about his brother's attachment to their mother and often spoke ill of her around Ed, who responded with shock and hurt.\n\nOn May 16, 1944, Henry and Ed were burning away marsh vegetation on the property; the fire got out of control, drawing the attention of the local fire department. By the end of the day – the fire having been extinguished and the firefighters gone – Ed reported his brother missing. With lanterns and flashlights, a search party searched for Henry, whose dead body was found lying face down. Apparently, he had been dead for some time, and it appeared that the cause of death was heart failure, since he had not been burned or injured otherwise. It was later reported, in Harold Schechter's biography of Gein, \"Deviant\", that Henry had bruises on his head. The police dismissed the possibility of foul play and the county coroner later officially listed asphyxiation as the cause of death. The authorities accepted the accident theory, but no official investigation was conducted and an autopsy was not performed. Some suspected that Ed Gein killed his brother. Questioning Gein about the death of Bernice Worden in 1957, state investigator Joe Wilimovsky brought up questions about Henry's death. George W. Arndt, who studied the case, wrote that, in retrospect, it was \"possible and likely\" that Henry's death was \"the \"Cain and Abel\" aspect of this case\".\n\nGein and his mother were now alone. Augusta had a paralyzing stroke shortly after Henry's death, and Gein devoted himself to taking care of her. Sometime in 1945, Gein later recounted, he and his mother visited a man named Smith, who lived nearby, to purchase straw. According to Gein, Augusta witnessed Smith beating a dog. A woman inside the Smith home came outside and yelled for him to stop but Smith beat the dog to death. Augusta was extremely upset by this scene, however, what bothered her did not appear to be the brutality toward the dog but rather the presence of the woman. Augusta told Ed that the woman was not married to Smith so had no business being there. \"Smith's harlot\", Augusta angrily called her. She had a second stroke soon after, and her health deteriorated rapidly. She died on December 29, 1945, at the age of 67. Ed was devastated by her death; in the words of author Harold Schechter, he had \"lost his only friend and one true love. And he was absolutely alone in the world.\"\n\nGein held on to the farm and earned money from odd jobs. He boarded up rooms used by his mother, including the upstairs, downstairs parlor, and living room, leaving them untouched; while the rest of the house became increasingly squalid, these rooms remained pristine. Gein lived thereafter in a small room next to the kitchen. Around this time, he became interested in reading death-cult magazines and adventure stories, particularly those involving cannibals or Nazi atrocities.\n\nGein was a handyman and received a farm subsidy from the federal government starting in 1951. He occasionally worked for the local municipal road crew and crop-threshing crews in the area. Sometime between 1946 and 1956, he also sold an 80-acre parcel of land that his brother Henry had owned.\n\nOn the morning of November 16, 1957, Plainfield hardware store owner Bernice Worden disappeared. A Plainfield resident reported that the hardware store's truck had been driven out from the rear of the building around 9:30 am. The hardware store was closed the entire day; some area residents believed this was because of deer hunting season. Bernice Worden's son, Deputy Sheriff Frank Worden, entered the store around 5:00 pm to find the store's cash register open and blood stains on the floor. Frank Worden told investigators that Ed Gein had been in the store the evening before his mother's disappearance, and that he would return the next morning for a gallon of antifreeze. A sales slip for a gallon of antifreeze was the last receipt written by Worden on the morning she disappeared. On the evening of the same day, Gein was arrested at a West Plainfield grocery store, and the Waushara County Sheriff's Department searched the Gein farm. A Waushara County Sheriff's deputy discovered Worden's decapitated body in a shed on Gein's property, hung upside down by her legs with a crossbar at her ankles and ropes at her wrists. The torso was \"dressed out like a deer\". She had been shot with a .22-caliber rifle, and the mutilations were made after her death.\n\nSearching the house, authorities found:\n\n\nThese artifacts were photographed at the state crime laboratory and then destroyed.\n\nWhen questioned, Gein told investigators that between 1947 and 1952, he made as many as 40 nocturnal visits to three local graveyards to exhume recently buried bodies while he was in a \"daze-like\" state. On about 30 of those visits, he said he came out of the daze while in the cemetery, left the grave in good order, and returned home empty-handed. On the other occasions, he dug up the graves of recently buried middle-aged women he thought resembled his mother and took the bodies home, where he tanned their skins to make his paraphernalia.\n\nGein admitted to stealing from nine graves from local cemeteries and led investigators to their locations. Allan Wilimovsky of the state crime laboratory participated in opening three test graves identified by Gein. The caskets were inside wooden boxes; the top boards ran crossways (not lengthwise). The tops of the boxes were about 2 feet (60 cm) below the surface in sandy soil. Gein had robbed the graves soon after the funerals while the graves were not completed. The test graves were exhumed because authorities were uncertain as to whether the slight Gein was capable of single-handedly digging up a grave during a single evening; they were found as Gein described: two of the exhumed graves were found empty (one had a crowbar in place of the body). One casket was empty; one casket Gein had failed to open when he lost his pry bar; and most of the body was gone from the third grave, but Gein had returned rings and some body parts. thus apparently corroborating Gein's confession.\n\nSoon after his mother's death, Gein began to create a \"woman suit\" so that \"...he could become his mother—to literally crawl into her skin\". Gein denied having sex with the bodies he exhumed, explaining: \"They smelled too bad.\" During state crime laboratory interrogation, Gein also admitted to the shooting death of Mary Hogan, a tavern owner missing since 1954 whose head was found in his house, but he later denied memory of details of her death.\n\nA 16-year-old youth, whose parents were friends of Gein and who attended ball games and movies with him, reported that Gein kept shrunken heads in his house, which Gein had described as relics from the Philippines, sent by a cousin who had served on the islands during World War II. Upon investigation by the police, these were determined to be human facial skins, carefully peeled from corpses and used by Gein as masks.\n\nGein was also considered a suspect in several other unsolved cases in Wisconsin, including the 1953 disappearance of Evelyn Hartley, a La Crosse babysitter.\n\nDuring questioning, Waushara County sheriff Art Schley reportedly assaulted Gein by banging his head and face into a brick wall. As a result, Gein's initial confession was ruled inadmissible. Schley died of heart failure at age 43 in 1968, before Gein's trial. Many who knew Schley said he was traumatized by the horror of Gein's crimes, and this, along with the fear of having to testify (especially about assaulting Gein), caused his death. One of his friends said: \"He was a victim of Ed Gein as surely as if he had butchered him.\"\n\nOn November 21, 1957, Gein was arraigned on one count of first degree murder in Waushara County Court, where he pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. Gein was diagnosed with schizophrenia and found mentally incompetent, thus unfit for trial. He was sent to the Central State Hospital for the Criminally Insane (now the Dodge Correctional Institution), a maximum-security facility in Waupun, Wisconsin, and later transferred to the Mendota State Hospital in Madison, Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1968, doctors determined Gein was \"mentally able to confer with counsel and participate in his defense\". The trial began on November 7, 1968 and lasted one week. A psychiatrist testified that Gein had told him that he did not know whether the killing of Bernice Worden was intentional or accidental. Gein had told him that while he examined a gun in Worden's store, the gun went off, killing Worden. Gein testified that after trying to load a bullet into the rifle, it discharged. He said he had not aimed the rifle at Worden, and did not remember anything else that happened that morning.\n\nAt the request of the defense, Gein's trial was held without a jury, with Judge Robert H. Gollmar presiding. Gein was found guilty by Gollmar on November 14. A second trial dealt with Gein's sanity; after testimony by doctors for the prosecution and defense, Gollmar ruled Gein \"not guilty by reason of insanity\" and ordered him committed to Central State Hospital for the Criminally Insane. Gein spent the rest of his life in a mental hospital. Judge Gollmar wrote, \"Due to prohibitive costs, Gein was tried for only one murder—that of Mrs. Worden. He also admitted to killing Mary Hogan.\"\n\nGein's house and property were scheduled to be auctioned March 30, 1958, amid rumors the house was to become a tourist attraction. On March 27, the house was destroyed by fire. Arson was suspected, but the cause was never officially determined. When Gein learned of the incident while in detention, he shrugged and said, \"Just as well.\" Gein's car, which he used to haul the bodies of his victims, was sold at public auction for $760 to carnival sideshow operator Bunny Gibbons. Gibbons later charged carnival goers 25¢ admission to see it.\n\nGein died at the Mendota Mental Health Institute due to respiratory failure secondary to lung cancer on July 26, 1984, at the age of 77. Over the years, souvenir seekers chipped pieces from his gravestone at the Plainfield Cemetery, until the stone itself was stolen in 2000. It was recovered in June 2001, near Seattle, and was placed in storage at the Waushara County Sheriff's Department. The gravesite itself is now unmarked, but not unknown; Gein is interred between his parents and brother in the cemetery.\n\nThe story of Ed Gein has had a lasting effect on American popular culture as evidenced by its numerous appearances in film, music, and literature. The tale first came to widespread public attention in the fictionalized version presented by Robert Bloch in his 1959 suspense novel \"Psycho\". In addition to Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film of Bloch's novel, \"Psycho\", Gein's story was loosely adapted into a number of films, including \"Deranged\" (1974), \"In the Light of the Moon\" (2000) (released in the United States and Australia as \"Ed Gein\" (2001)), \"\" (2007), \"Hitchcock\" (2012), and the Rob Zombie films \"House of 1000 Corpses\" and its sequel, \"The Devil's Rejects\". Gein served as the inspiration for a myriad of fictional serial killers across different mediums, most notably the likes of Norman Bates (\"Psycho\"), Leatherface (\"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\"), Buffalo Bill (\"The Silence of the Lambs\") and the character Dr. Oliver Thredson from the TV series \"\".\n\nAmerican filmmaker Errol Morris and German filmmaker Werner Herzog attempted unsuccessfully to collaborate on a film project about Gein from 1975 to 1976. Morris interviewed Gein several times and ended up spending almost a year in Plainfield interviewing dozens of locals. The pair planned secretly to exhume Gein's mother from her grave to test a theory but never followed through on the scheme and eventually ended their collaboration. The aborted project was described in a 1989 \"New Yorker\" profile of Morris.\n\nAt the time, the news reports of Gein's crimes spawned a subgenre of \"black humor\". Since the 1950s, Gein has frequently been exploited by transgressive art or \"shock rock\", often without association with his life or crimes beyond the shock value of his name. Examples of this include the song titled \"Dead Skin Mask\" (1990) from the Slayer album \"Seasons in the Abyss\", \"Nothing to Gein\" (2001) from Mudvayne's album \"L.D. 50\", and \"Ed Gein\" (1992) from The Ziggens' album \"Rusty Never Sleeps\". There was the band Ed Gein called after the murderer. Ed Gein's atrocities were also satirized in Blind Melon's \"Skinned\" from the 1995 album \"Soup\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56097264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56097264", "title": "Ewa Agoyin", "text": "Ewa Agoyin\n\nEwa Agoyin (also spelled \"Ewa Aganyin\") is a street food commonly eaten in Lagos and other southern states of Nigeria. The beans are made to be extremely soft or mashed. It is commonly eaten with barely ground pepper and tomato sauce which is very spicy, but peppery. It has a local name of 'Ewa G'. Additional ingredients can include palm oil, onion and crayfish.\n\nIt is commonly eaten with bread which makes it very satisfying. A common slang phrases is \"ewa G go block belle\", meaning ewa aganyin will fill your stomach. It is a popular food for Nigerians as it is both delicious and very filling.\n\n"}
{"id": "41492276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41492276", "title": "Female infanticide in India", "text": "Female infanticide in India\n\nFemale infanticide in India has a history spanning centuries. Poverty, the dowry system, births to unmarried women, deformed infants, famine, lack of support services and maternal illnesses such as postpartum depression are among the causes that have been proposed to explain the phenomenon of female infanticide in India.\n\nAlthough infanticide has been criminalised in India, it remains an under-reported crime due to the lack of reliable data. In 2010, the National Crime Records Bureau reported approximately 100 male and female infanticides, producing an official rate of less than one case of infanticide per million people.\n\nThe Indian practice of female infanticide and of sex-selective abortion have been cited to explain in part a gender imbalance that has been reported as being increasingly distorted since the 1991 Census of India, although there are also other influences that might affect the trend.\n\nSection 315 of the Indian Penal Code defines infanticide as the killing of an infant in the 0–1 year age group. The Code uses this definition to differentiate between infanticide and numerous other crimes against children, such as foeticide and murder.\n\nSome scholarly publications on infanticide use the legal definition. Others, such as the collaboration of Renu Dube, Reena Dube and Rashmi Bhatnagar, who describe themselves as \"postcolonial feminists\", adopt a broader scope for \"infanticide\", applying it from foeticide through to femicide at an unspecified age. Barbara Miller, an anthropologist, has \"for convenience\" used the term to refer to all non-accidental deaths of children up to the age of around 15–16, which is culturally considered to be the age when childhood ends in rural India. She notes that the act of infanticide can be \"outright\", such as a physical beating, or take a \"passive\" form through actions such as neglect and starvation. Neonaticide, being the killing of a child within 24 hours of birth, is sometimes considered as a separate study.\n\nBritish colonists in India first became aware of the practice of female infanticide in 1789, during the period of Company Rule. It was noted among members of a Rajput clan by Jonathan Duncan, then the British Resident in Jaunpur district of what is now the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. Later, in 1817, officials noted that the practice was so entrenched that there were entire taluks of the Jadeja Rajputs in Gujarat where no female children of the clan existed. In the mid-19th century, a magistrate who was stationed in the north-west of the country claimed that for several hundred years no daughter had ever been raised in the strongholds of the Rajahs of Mynpoorie and that only after the intervention of a District Collector in 1845 did the Rajput ruler there keep a daughter alive. The British identified other high-caste communities as practitioners in north, western and central areas of the country; these included the Ahirs, Bedis, Gurjars, Jats, Khatris, Lewa Kanbis, Mohyal Brahmins and Patidars.\n\nAccording to Marvin Harris, another anthropologist and among the first proponents of cultural materialism, these killings of legitimate children occurred only among the Rajputs and other elite land-owning and warrior groups. The rationale was mainly economic, lying in a desire not to split land and wealth among too many heirs and in avoiding the payment of dowries. Sisters and daughters would marry men of similar standing and thus pose a challenge to the cohesion of wealth and power, whereas concubines and their children would not and thus could be allowed to live. He further argues that the need for warriors in the villages of a pre-industrial society meant female children were devalued, and the combination of war casualties and infanticide acted as a necessary form of population control.\n\nSociobiologists have a different theory to Harris. Indeed, his theory and interest in the topic of infanticide is born of his more generalised opposition to the sociobiological hypothesis of the procreative imperative. According to this theory of imperative, based on the 19th-century vogue for explanations rooted in evolution and its premise of natural selection, the biological differences between men and women meant that many more children could be gained among the elites through support for male offspring, whose fecundity was naturally much greater: the line would spread and grow more extensively. Harris believes this to be a fallacious explanation because the elites had sufficient wealth easily to support both male and female children. Thus, Harris and others, such as William Divale, see female infanticide as a way to restrict population growth, while sociobiologists such as Mildred Dickemann view the same practice as a means of expanding it.\n\nAnother anthropologist, Kristen Hawkes, has criticised both of these theories. On the one hand, opposing Harris, she says both that the quickest way to get more male warriors would have been to have more females as child-bearers and that having more females in a village would increase the potential for marriage alliances with other villages. Against the procreative imperative theory she points out that the corollary to well-off elites such as those in northern India wanting to maximise reproduction is that poor people would want to minimise it and thus in theory should have practiced male infanticide, which it seems they did not.\n\nThere is no data for the sex ratio in India prior to the British colonial era. Reliant as the British were on local high-caste communities for the collection of taxes and the maintenance of law and order, the administrators were initially reluctant to peer too deeply into their private affairs, such as the practice of infanticide. Although this did change in the 1830s, the reluctance reappeared following the cathartic events of the Indian rebellion of 1857, which caused government by the East India Company to be supplanted by the British Raj. In 1857, John Cave Browne, a chaplain serving in Bengal Presidency, reported a Major Goldney speculating that the practice of female infanticide among the Jats in the Punjab Province originated from \"Malthusian motives\". In the Gujarat region, the first cited examples of discrepancies in the sex ratio among Lewa Patidars and Kanbis dates from 1847. These historical records have been questioned by modern scholars. The British made their observations from a distance and never mixed with their Indian subjects to understand their poverty, frustrations, life or culture at close hand. Browne documented his speculations on female infanticide using \"they tell\" hearsay. Bernard Cohn states that the colonial British residents in India would not accuse an individual or family of infanticide as the crime was difficult to prove in a British court, nevertheless accused an entire clan or social group of female infanticide. Cohn says, \"female infanticide thus became a 'statistical crime'\", during the colonial rule of India.\n\nAside from numerous reports and correspondence on infanticide from colonial officials, there was also documentation from Christian missionaries. who were significant writers of ethnographies of India during the 19th century. They sent letters back to Britain announcing their missionary accomplishments and characterising the culture as savage, ignorant and depraved. Scholars have questioned this distorted construction of Indian culture during the colonial era, stating that infanticide was as common in England during the 18th and 19th century, as in India. Some British Christian missionaries of the late 19th century, states Daniel Grey, wrongly believed that female infanticide was sanctioned by the scriptures of Hinduism and Islam, and against which Christianity had \"centuries after centuries come into victorious conflict\".\n\nA review of scholarship by Miller has shown that the majority of female infanticides in India during the colonial period occurred in the north-west, and that it was widespread although not all groups carried out this practice.\n\nDavid Arnold, a member of the subaltern studies group who has used a lot of contemporary sources, says that various methods of outright infanticide were used, including reputedly including poisoning with opium, strangulation and suffocation. Poisonous substances such as the root of the \"plumbago rosea\" and arsenic were used for abortion, with the latter also ironically being used as an aphrodisiac and cure for male impotence. The act of direct infanticide among Rajputs was usually performed by women, often the mother herself or a nurse. Administration of poison was in any event a type of killing particularly associated with women; Arnold describes it as \"often murder by proxy\", with the man at a remove from the event and thus able to claim innocence.\n\nThe passing of the Female Infanticide Prevention Act, 1870 made the practice illegal in the British Indian regions of Punjab and the North-Western Provinces. The Governor-General of India had the authority to expand the Act to other regions at his discretion.\n\nMajor famines occurred in India every five to eight years in the 19th- and early 20th-centuries, resulting in millions starving to death. As also happened in China, these events begat infanticide: desperate starving parents would either kill a suffering infant, sell a child to buy food for the rest of the family, or beg people to take them away for nothing and feed them. Gupta and Shuzhou state that massive famines and poverty-related historical events had influenced historical sex ratios, and they have had deep cultural ramifications on girls and regional attitudes towards female infant mortality.\n\nAccording to Mara Hvistendahl, documents left behind by the colonial administration following independence showed a direct correlation between the taxation policies of the British East India Company and the rise in female infanticide.\n\nThe decennial census of India from 1881 through 1941 recorded a consistently skewed ratio whereby the number of males exceeded the number of females. The gender difference was particularly high in north and western regions of India, with an overall sex ratio – males per 100 females – of between 110.2 and 113.7 in the north over the 60-year period, and 105.8 to 109.8 males for every 100 female in western India for all ages. Visaria states that female deficit among Muslims was markedly higher, next only to Sikhs. South India region was an exception reporting excess females overall, which scholars attribute partly to selective emigration of males and the regional practice of matriarchy.\n\nThe overall sex ratios, and excess males, in various regions were highest among the Muslim population of India from 1881 to 1941, and the sex ratio of each region correlated with the proportion of its Muslim population, with the exception of eastern region of India where the overall sex ratio was relatively low while it had a high percentage of Muslims in the population. If regions that are now part of modern Pakistan are excluded (Baluchistan, North West Frontier, Sind for example), Visaria states that the regional and overall sex ratios for the rest of India over the 1881–1941 period improve in favour of females, with a lesser gap between male and female population.\n\nInfanticide in India, and elsewhere in the world, is a difficult issue to objectively access because reliable data is unavailable. Scrimshaw states that not only accurate frequency of female infanticide is unknown, differential care between male and female infants is even more elusive data. Reliable data for female infanticide is unavailable. Its frequency, and that of sex-selective abortion, is indirectly estimated from the observed high birth sex ratio; that is, the ratio of boys to girls at birth or 0–1 age group infants, or 0–6 age group child sex ratio. The natural ratio is assumed to be 106, or somewhere between 103 and 107, and any number above or below this range is considered as suggestive of female or male foeticide respectively.\n\nHigher sex ratios than in India have been reported for the last 20 years in China, Pakistan, Vietnam, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and some Southeast European countries, and attributed in part to female infanticide, among other factors. There is an ongoing debate as to the cause of high sex ratios in the 0–1 and 0–6 age groups in India. The suggested reasons for high birth sex ratio include regional female foeticide using amniocentesis regardless of income or poverty because of patrilineal culture, the under-reporting of female births, smaller family size and selective stopping of family size once a male is born,\n\nSheetal Ranjan reports that the total male and female infanticide reported cases in India were 139 in 1995, 86 in 2005 and 111 in 2010; the National Crime Records Bureau summary for 2010 gives a figure of 100. Scholars state that infanticide is an under-reported crime.\n\nReports of regional cases of female infanticide have appeared in the media, such as those in Usilampatti in southern Tamil Nadu.\n\nOne of the biggest reason for increase in female infanticide is being associated with the increase in number of private Ultrasound Scanning Centres which often tell the sex of baby, and as they become more accessible and affordable people who could not find out the sex of baby historically, have started finding it out and often results in abortion in case of girl child.\n\nThe 2011 Census has given the following sex ratios by religious communities\n\nExtreme poverty with an inability to afford raising a child is one of the reasons given for female infanticide in India. Such poverty has been a major reason for high infanticide rates in various cultures, throughout history, including England, France and India.\n\nThe dowry system in India is another reason that is given for female infanticide. Although India has taken steps to abolish the dowry system, the practice persists, and for poorer families in rural regions female infanticide and gender selective abortion is attributed to the fear of being unable to raise a suitable dowry and then being socially ostracised.\n\nOther major reasons given for infanticide, both female and male, include unwanted children, such as those conceived after rape, deformed children born to impoverished families, and those born to unmarried mothers lacking reliable, safe and affordable birth control. Relationship difficulties, low income, lack of support coupled with mental illness such as postpartum depression have also been reported as reasons for female infanticide in India.\n\nElaine Rose in 1999 reported that disproportionately high female mortality is correlated to poverty, infrastructure and means to feed one's family, and that there has been an increase in the ratio of the probability that a girl survives to the probability that a boy survives with favourable rainfall each year and the consequent ability to irrigate farms in rural India.\n\nIan Darnton-Hill et al. state that the effect of malnutrition, particularly micronutrient and vitamin deficiency, depends on sex, and it adversely impacts female infant mortality.\n\nIn 1991 the Girl Child Protection Scheme was launched. This operates as a long-term financial incentive, with rural families having to meet certain obligations such as sterilisation of the mother. Once the obligations are met, the state puts aside 2000 in a state-run fund. The fund, which should grow to 10,000, is released to the daughter when she is 20: she can use it either to marry or to pursue higher education.\n\nIn 1992 the Government of India started the \"baby cradle scheme\". This allows families anonymously to give their child up for adoption without having to go through the formal procedure. The scheme has been praised for possibly saving the lives of thousands of baby girls but also criticised by human rights groups, who say that the scheme encourages child abandonment and also reinforces the low status in which women are held. The scheme, which was piloted in Tamil Nadu, saw cradles placed outside state-operated health facilities. The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu added another incentive, giving money to families that had more than one daughter. 136 baby girls were given for adoption during the first four years of the scheme. In 2000, 1,218 cases of female infanticide were reported, the scheme was deemed a failure and it was abandoned. It was reinstated in the following year.\n\nThe 2011 census data showed a significant decline in the child sex ratio (CSR). Alarmed by the decline, the Government of India introduced Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (BBBP) initiative. The program is intended to prevent gender discrimination and to ensure survival, protection and education of girls.\n\nThe Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF) wrote in their 2005 report, \"Women in an Insecure World\", that at a time when the number of casualties in war had fallen, a \"secret genocide\" was being carried out against women. According to DCAF the demographic shortfall of women who have died for gender related issues is in the same range as the 191 million estimated dead from all conflicts in the 20th century. In 2012, the documentary \"\" was released. This focused on female infanticide in China and in India.\n\nIn 1991 Elisabeth Bumiller wrote \"May You be the Mother of a Hundred Sons: A Journey Among the Women of India\" around the subject of infanticide. In the chapter on female infanticide, titled \"No More Little Girls\", she said that the prevailing reason for the practice is \"not as the act of monsters in a barbarian society but as the last resort of impoverished, uneducated women driven to do what they thought was best for themselves and their families.\"\n\n\"Gift of A Girl Female Infanticide\" is a 1998 documentary that explores the prevalence of female infanticide in southern India, as well as steps which have been taken to help eradicate the practice. The documentary won an award from the Association for Asian Studies.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "11515854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11515854", "title": "French people in Korea", "text": "French people in Korea\n\nThere is a small community of French people in Korea.\n\nFrench people began coming to Korea as early as the seventeenth century, when French Catholic missionaries first came to the country. However, most missionaries came after the 1886 establishment of relations between France and the Joseon dynasty; the treaty signed between the two countries gave French missionaries the right to evangelise in Korea.\n\nThere were an estimated 5,343 French nationals in South Korea . Most are employed by French multinationals operating in the country. The largest concentration can be found in the Seorae Village in Seoul's Seocho-gu district, which because of its location on a hill is often compared to Montmartre in Paris. Korea's only school using French as the medium of instruction moved there in 1984. Most French children only attend elementary or middle school in Seoul, but then return to France afterwards.\n\nIn September 2009, the Seoul metropolitan government announced a five billion-won plan to renovate the area and make it more attractive to foreign residents by widening pedestrian walkways and putting up more signs in French. One portion of the pavement, starting from the entrance to Bangbae Middle School, is painted in red, white and blue, the colours of the flag of France.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33970306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33970306", "title": "Garid", "text": "Garid\n\nGarid (Mongolian: гарьд) is a Mongolian word corresponding to the Sanskrit Garuda with several connotations related Mongolian culture. The Garuda is a large mythical bird-like creature or humanoid bird that appears in both Hindu and Buddhist mythology. Garid is a rank in traditional Mongolian wrestling meaning \"mythical bird\" as well as the name of the pet eagle of Genghis Khan.\n\nMongolian wrestling has a seven thousand-year history and continues into the present during the annual Mongolian festival of Naadam. Cave paintings in the Bayankhongor Province of Mongolia dating back to Neolithic age of 7000 BC show grappling of two naked men and surrounded by crowds. The art of Bökh appears on bronze plates discovered in the ruins of the Xiongnu empire (206 BC–220 AD). Originally, Bökh was a military sport intended to provide mainly strength, stamina and skills training to troops. Genghis Khan (1206–1227) and the all later Emperors of the Mongol Empire (1206–1368) and also the Emperors of later Khanates were keen to support the sport for this reason so wrestling events were included in local festivals, or Naadam. Wrestling became a key factor when deciding the candidate rankings in imperial martial exams plus outstanding wrestlers were entitled to high distinctions.\n\nThe winners are of the wrestling competitions at the Naadam festival are honored with ancient titles: the winner of the fifth round gets the honorary title \"nachin\" (\"falcon\"), of the seventh and eighth rounds \"zaan\" (\"elephant\"), and of the tenth and eleventh rounds \"arslan\" (\"lion\"). The wrestler who becomes the absolute champion is awarded the title of \"avarga\" (\"titan\"). Every subsequent victory at the national Naadam festival by a wrestler of the \"avarga\" rank adds an epithet to the title, for example \"Invincible Titan to be remembered by all\". Beginning in 2003, the State Great Khural adopted a new law on Naadam, making amendments to some of the wrestling titles. The titles of \"Iarudi\" and \"Khartsaga\" (meaning \"mythical bird\" and \"hawk\" respectively) were added to the existing titles.\n\nThe Mongols gained fame in the 13th century when under Genghis Khan they established a huge Eurasian empire through conquest. Genghis Khan came to power by uniting many of the nomadic tribes of northeast Asia. After founding the Mongol Empire and being proclaimed \"Genghis Khan\", he started the Mongol invasions that resulted in the conquest of most of Eurasia. These included raids or invasions of the Kara-Khitan Khanate, Caucasus, Khwarezmid Empire, Western Xia and Jin dynasties. These campaigns were often accompanied by wholesale massacres of the civilian populations – especially in Khwarezmia. By the end of his life, the Mongol Empire occupied a substantial portion of Central Asia and China.\n\nDuring this time Chinngis Khan had a pet eagle, garid, which was honored in 2003 through Mongolian State Great Khural naming as one of the esteemed titles in Mongolian wrestling after this eagle.\n\nEagles remain popular pets in Mongolia and continue to be used for hunting, as evidenced by the popularity of annual festivals such as the Golden Eagle festival in the Bayan-Ölgii aimag. During this festival, hunters catch small animals including foxes and hares by their trained eagles.\n\n"}
{"id": "42050442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42050442", "title": "Haitian French", "text": "Haitian French\n\nHaitian French (, Haitian Creole: \"fransè ayisyen\") is the variety of French spoken in Haiti. Haitian French is close to standard French. It should be distinguished from Haitian Creole.\n\nThe phoneme consonant // is pronounced [], but it is often silent in the syllable coda when occurring before a consonant or prosodic break (\"faire\" is pronounced [ː]). The nasal vowels are not pronounced as in French of France, // → [], // → [], // → [], and // → []. The typical vowel shifts, makes it sound very much like other regional accents of the French Caribbean, and the Francophone countries of Africa. The perceivable difference between Haitian French and the French spoken in Paris, lies in the Haitian speaker's intonation, where a rather subtle creole-based tone carrying the French on top is found. Importantly, these differences are not enough to be misunderstood between a native Parisian speaker and a speaker of Haitian French.\n\nIn Haiti, the French spoken in Paris is very influential; so much so, that a growing number of Haitians would rather speak it as precisely as possible and pursue this by listening to Radio France Internationale and matching the style of speech heard on that station. Although quite distinct from the speech heard on the streets of Paris, the results are quite similar to the speech heard and read in media from Paris and in published books.\n\nIn the educated groups, French is spoken more closely to the Parisian accent. It is within this group that a major portion of enrollment is provided for the private schools and universities. Even in this group however, a native accent of the language usually occurs in everyone's speech.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26513258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26513258", "title": "Halaypotra", "text": "Halaypotra\n\nThe Halaypotra () are a Muslim community found in the state of Gujarat in India and a province of Sindh in Pakistan. They are one of a number of communities of Maldhari pastoral nomads found in the Banni region of Kutch.\n\nThe Halaypotra claim descent from Halosamma, a nobleman belonging to the Samma Rajput tribe. Other traditions connect the Halaypotra with the Soomra tribe of Sindh. They are a small Maldhari community, concentrated in the Banni region of Kutch. The Halaypotra perceive themselves to be Muslim Rajputs.\n\nThe community is concentrated in the talukas of Bhuj, Abdasa and Mandvi in Kutch District of Gujarat, and the neighbouring districts of Badin and Tharparkar in Sindh. They speak a dialect of Kutchi, with substantial Sindhi loan words. The Halaypotra consists of seven clans, the main ones being the Sharman, Dera, Tajju and Babbia. They are an endogamous community, and marriages between the clans is the norm. The community are Sunni Muslims, as well as practicing folk beliefs.\n\nThe Halaypotra are pastoral Maldhari nomads, raising buffaloes, cows and sheep, and graze these in the Banni region. They also sell milk to Bhuj. They often migrate to Saurashtra with to graze their cattle. Like many other Kutchis, the Halaypotra have migrated to others parts of India in search of work. The community are also famed for their embroidery work, known as bharat ka kam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1263923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263923", "title": "Harbin Russians", "text": "Harbin Russians\n\nThe term Harbin Russians or Russian Harbinites refers to several generations of Russians who lived in the city of Harbin, Manchuria from approximately 1898 to the mid-1960s. Harbin, a major junction city on the Chinese Eastern Railway (CER), came successively under the control of the Qing dynasty, the Republic of China, Manchukuo and the People's Republic of China in this period.\n\nThe people in the Soviet Union used the terms \"KVZhDist\" (, \"person of the China Eastern Railway\" ) and \"Harbinets\" (Харбинец, \"Harbinite/person from Harbin\") to refer to a person with any type of ties to the China Eastern Railway.\n\nThe first generation of Harbin Russians were mostly the builders and employees of the Chinese Eastern Railway. They moved to Harbin in order to work on the railroad. At the time Harbin was not an established city. The city was almost built from scratch by the builders and early settlers. Houses were constructed, furniture and personal items were brought in from Russia. After the Russo-Japanese War, while many Russians left Harbin, a lot of long-time residents decided to stay. By 1913, Harbin had become an established Russian colony for the construction and maintenance work on the China Eastern Railway. A record shows Harbin had a total of 68,549 people, most of which are of Russian and Chinese descent. There were a total of 53 different nationalities. Along with Russian and Chinese, there were 45 spoken languages used in Harbin at the time. Only 11.5% of all residents were born in Harbin. There were lively religious activities, too, by the Russians (Saint Sophia Cathedral in Harbin), Ukrainians (Church of the Intercession in Harbin), Poles (Sacred Heart Cathedral of Harbin), Germans (Harbin Nangang Christian Church), Danish (Danish Lutheran Church), and others.\nA few kilometers of Harbin there is a railway station of Asheng (Ashihé) which was a settlement of hundreds of white Russians till 1955. A large community, with orthodox church, independent college, library and a social club. The common language was Russian, with some Siberian variations. Many Czarist Imperial officers amongst \"old believers\" contributed to maintain strong links to Russian culture, literature and music. Almost the entire population of Asheng emigrated, to Australia and Brazil.\n\nIn the decade from 1913 to 1923, Russia went through World War I, the Russian Revolution, and the Russian Civil War. In the 1920s Harbin was flooded with 100,000 to 200,000 White émigrés fleeing from Russia. They were mostly officers and soldiers involved in the White movement, members of the White governments in Siberia and Russian Far East. There were both the \"intelligentsia\" and ordinary people. Harbin held the largest Russian population outside of the state of Russia.\n\nOn September 8, 1920, the Republic of China announced that it would no longer recognize the Russian consulates in China. On September 23, China ceased relations with representatives of the Russian Empire and deprived Russians of extraterritorial rights. Overnight, Russians in China found themselves stateless. Shortly afterward, the Chinese government took over control of the institutions in Harbin such as courts, police, prison, post office, and some research and educational institutions.\nIn 1924, an agreement was signed in Beijing regarding the control of the Chinese Eastern Railway. The agreement stated that only Soviet and Chinese citizens could be employed by the CER. This meant the Harbin Russians had to choose not only their nationality, but also their political identity. Many Harbin Russians took Soviet citizenship for patriotic reasons. However, there were also Harbin Russians who remained stateless who were eventually let go from CER. Gradually, the national and the political identity of the Harbin Russians split the group into opposing sides. This led to a strong Soviet presence in Harbin.\n\nIn 1929, the Congregation of Marian Fathers of the Immaculate Conception opened the Lyceum St. Nicholas, which educated Christian male elite until 1949.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Japanese occupied Manchuria, and turned it into the puppet state of Manchukuo. In 1935, the Soviet Union sold its share of the China Eastern Railway to Japan via Manchukuo. In the spring and summer of 1935, thousands of Harbin Russians went on trains with their passports and belongings, and left for the Soviet Union.\n\nFrom 1932 to 1945, Harbin Russians had a difficult time under the Manchukuo régime, and the Japanese occupation. Some Harbin Russians initially thought the occupation was good, hoping that the Japanese would help them in their anti-Soviet struggles and provide protection from the Chinese, who were desperately trying to restore the sovereignty of Harbin.\n\nMany Harbin Russians returned to the Soviet Union after 1935.\nSome Harbin Russians moved to other cities such as Shanghai, Beijing, Tianjin, Qingdao, and eventually left China. By the 1930s, Shanghai's Russian community had grown to 25,000.\n\nThe anti-Communist Harbin Russians formed the Russian Fascist Party (RFP). The RFP was anti-semitic and harassed the Jewish Harbin Russians with, among other things, kidnappings, and many Russian Jews therefore left Harbin. In 1934, the Japanese formed the Bureau for Russian Emigrants in Manchuria (BREM; ), which were nominally under the control of RFP; the BREM provided identification papers necessary to live, work and travel in Manchukuo. White General Vladimir Kislitsin acted as BREM's chairman between 1938 and 1942. Ataman Grigory Semyonov, himself much in favor with the Japanese, replaced him from 1943 to 1945.\nThe Harbin Russians were left to choose between a Soviet citizenship or to remain stateless by support of the BREM. The stateless Russians were officially favored by the regime, but in reality, they were not trusted and exposed to a great risk of being arrested as spies for the Soviet Union. They were also often enlisted in the army for work along the border to the Soviet Union. After the Nazis invaded the Soviet Union in 1941 they were in an even more sensitive situation. To separate the anti-Soviet Russians from the Soviet Russians, the former were ordered to wear a badge with the colors of the Czar — later, a white numbered disk of aluminum.\n\nThe Soviet Russians were excluded from the Russian schools and their property was often confiscated, but they were under the protection of the Soviet Embassy.\n\nIn 1945, after the Soviet Army occupied Harbin, the Soviets sent all those Harbin Russians whom they identified as White Guardists and those who had collaborated with the Japanese authorities to labor camps.\n\nAfter 1952, the Soviet Union initiated a second wave of repatriation of Harbin Russians. By the mid-1960s virtually all Harbin Russians had left Harbin. There were several Russian connections in Australia resulting from refugees leaving Harbin. A good portion of the Russian Old Believers left to South America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26897284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26897284", "title": "Ibsen quotes, Oslo", "text": "Ibsen quotes, Oslo\n\nThe Ibsen quotes is a permanent work of art in Oslo, Norway, officially known as Ibsen Sitat. Famous quotes from Henrik Ibsen are incorporated into the sidewalks of prominent city streets.\n\nThe initiative was taken by Sune Nordgren, inspired by a similar project involving August Strindberg quotes in Stockholm, Sweden. In 2001, Gavin Jantjes was appointed curator of the work. Sixty quotes in steel lettering were to be set into the sidewalks. The work was to be completed by 2006, the 100th anniversary of Henrik Ibsen's death. As a result of delays, by 2006 only three quotes had been laid, at a cost of . The Swedish artist duo \"FA+\" had been selected to handle the quotes, but they resigned from the project in May 2006. NOK 400,000 came from the Arts Council Norway and the foundation that oversaw the 100th anniversary, but some of the funds were used for other causes. The group behind the project, the Ibsen Foundation, explained that in their view the money had not been specifically earmarked.\n\nIn 2006, the Ibsen Foundation was relieved of involvement in the project. Between 2006 and 2008, the project advanced, resulting in a work of art consisting of 69 quotes and 4,011 letters. The quotes are strewn along a trail between the Ibsen Museum and Ibsen's favorite haunt, the Grand Café. Sparebankstiftelsen DnB NOR contributed a total of to the project.\n\nThe artwork has been criticized for displaying quotes by the famous author in a random and not always understandable way. Per Jæger, project leader since 2006, replied that it was among the most accessible works of art in Norway, and that ordinary people had been asked to pick some of the quotes. He said that it would become a \"tourist attraction on a par with Fram and the Holmenkollen ski jump\". The work has also been criticized as being unsuitable for city streets, creating additional requirements for cleaning and repair.\n\nThe text consistently displays typographical errors, such as using hyphens for rules, and underlinings for italics or emphatic spacing; and there are regular spelling mistakes, such as “Vilejløst” for “viljeløst”. The work’s title “Ibsen Sitat”, a separated composite, is ungrammatical.\n"}
{"id": "13514137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13514137", "title": "Ismaily SC", "text": "Ismaily SC\n\nIsmaily Sporting Club () (Egyptian Arabic: النادي الإسماعيلي, : El-Nady El-Ismaily) is an Egyptian professional football club, established on 13 April 1924 as El Nahda Sporting Club (: Nady El Nahda), based in Ismaïlia, Egypt. The club is best known for its football team. Also it's considered as an Egyptian National Club, where they helped the famous local tour of duty to play for the benefit of the homeland against the occupying armies. The club's nickname \"The Brazilians\", is a reference to their uniforms, which echo those of the Brazilian national team, and similar style of play.\n\nIsmaily won the Egyptian Premier League three times in 1967, 1991 and 2002, as well as the Egyptian Cup in 1997 and 2000. In 1969 the club won the CAF Champions League. That event, the first for an Egyptian team, was so monumental at the time that in many ways it remains a legendary victory in the minds of a whole generation. The club reached the CAF Champions League final match in 2003, but lost to Nigerian club Enyimba FC in a match that included many controversial incidents.\n\nIsmaily also is well known for being rich in skillful players and for the enjoyable style of play which is the reason they are known as \"The Egyptian Samba\". However, the club is also known for being usually unsuccessful to translate these abilities into championships.\n\nIsmaily continues to face difficult circumstances in building and maintaining a team in a country where most of the population cheers for one of the two most established clubs Al-Ahly and El Zamalek situated in the capital of Egypt, Cairo. For the same reasons, it has been very difficult along the years for Ismaily club to manage to keep its top players at the club. It has been a repeated incident in the past years when superstar players of Ismaily are transferred to one of the two Egyptian giants, with or against the club's will.\n\nIt all started back in 1920, more than 90 years ago, when the idea of starting an Egyptian club in the city of Ismailia was born. In 1921, this dream became reality when the Nahda Sporting Club (now Ismaily) was founded thanks to generous donations and hard work. The Nahda was the first Egyptian club in the Canal zone; all other clubs were strictly foreign.\n\nThe club’s location is where the Friday market is today. It wasn’t until 1926 that the club became an official member of the Egyptian Football Federation. Ismaily is called the factory of stars, Ismaily produced great and famous players for Egypt.\n\nThe club is known in Egypt as well as its fans \"El-Daraweesh\"\n\nThey are well known for playing football but never score or achieve any championships, they usually lose in the semi final or Quarter Final or even first rounds of any championship.\ni.e.: They lost in Egyptian cup 2008 – 2009 from a 2nd division team in the first round.\n\nThe club’s initial state was quite modest. Inside the club’s brick wall, there existed only a field of sand, one changing room, and a small hut. Of course, the residents of Ismailia were not satisfied; the hut was removed and replaced by a small building in 1931, and grass was planted on the pitch. Expansion continued in 1943, when the club purchased a 15,000 square-meter piece of land and moved there.\n\nBuilding the club required money, and a total sum of 6453 L.E. was collected from local families and businesses. Here is a list of the most generous contributors:\n\nThe first to game take place in the new pitch was between Ismaily and the English Army Team (Canal). The new club was officially opened on 11 April 1947. A celebration party was organized for this event. A friendly game was played on this day between Ismaily and the Farouk First Club (now Zamalek). Ismaily won the game 3/2.\n\nIsmaily’s lineup was: Yango, Sayed Abu Greisha, Salem Salem, Ali Hegazy, Anoos El Kebir, Mohamed Abdel Salam, Aly Lafy, Ahmed Mansour, Ibrahim Hablos, Sayed Charley, Awad Abdel Rahman.\n\nIt wasn't until forty-four years after Ismaily was founded that the Daraweesh finally achieved their first title. Ismaily had been slowly climbing to the top after returning to the Premier League, but it all came together in the 66/67 season.\n\nSalah Abu Greisha\nLike every other League title Ismaily won, a long and hard battle was fought against Ahly, throughout the season. Ismaily secured the title however, after defeating Ahly by Ali Abu Greisha's penalty-spot goal, two weeks before the end of the season.\n\nThe 1966/67 season had 22 weeks. Ismaily won 15 games, tied 6, and lost one against Ahly. The Daraweesh scored 34 goals and conceded 17. Ali Abu Greisha was the leading scorer with 15 goals; Shehta, Sayed Abdel Razek, and Reeo scored 4 each; Sayed Hamed, El Araby, Tarboush, Mostafa Darwish, and Mohamed Maaty each scored once.\n\nCoach Thompson\nSalah Abu Greisha coached the team for the first half of the League, but after a few shaky performances, Eng. Osman Ahmed Osman traveled to London, and returned with Ismaily's first ever foreign coach: English Thompson. Thompson worked with Salah Abu Greisha to keep the team in top form.\n\nIsmaily's results for the season:\n\nThe African Victory: In 1969, Ismaily became the first Egyptian and Arab team to become the African Champion with the support of All league clubs' fans in the game that was held in Cairo Stadium.\n\nAfter the League victory of 1967, Ismaily entered the African Champions League of 1969, despite gruelling local conditions following the war. Ismaily made it to the top, undefeated, and won the title in Cairo Stadium, which was packed over-capacity.\n\nAli Abu Greisha\nIsmaily played 8 games, winning 5 of them and tieing three. A total of 22 goals were scored; Ali Abu Greisha scored 8, Sayed \"Bazooka\" scored 6, Amiro scored 4, Hendawy scored 2, and Anoos and Senary each scored 1. Only 9 goals were scored in Ismaily's goal. Ismaily was being coached by Ali Osman and Salah Abu Greisha at the time.\n\nIsmaily also participated in the next African Champions League as defending Champion, and borrowed several players from other Egyptian clubs. Despite this, Ismaily was knocked out in the Semi-Finals by a Ghanaian team.\n\nIsmaily then participated in the next tournament (the 7th), but was again eliminated by the same team. In the eighth tournament, Ismaily was eliminated early by the Ahly of Libya. In the ninth tournament, Ismaily made it to the Quarter Finals but was then forced to withdraw due to the October war.\n\nIsmaily would not play any African championships for several years, until participating in the African Cup of Cup Winners. Ismaily was knocked out in the Semi-Finals by Ahly.\n\nAmiro\nIsmaily participated in the Champions League again in 1990, but was eliminated in the Semi-Finals by Al Hilal of Sudan.\n\nIn 1995, in the Cup of Cup Winners, Ismaily was eliminated by Asec Abidjan after an embarrassing 5–1 loss. In the CAF Cup a few years later, Ismaily achieved second place, after Shabibat Al Kaba'il of Algeria after tieing 1–1 at home and 0–0 away.\n\nThe Second Domestic Title: It took 24 years for Ismaily to win the League a second time. In the 1990/1991 season, Ismaily won their second Egyptian League title. Ismaily defeated Ahly, 2–0 in a decisive match in Mahala Stadium.\n\nThe competition was between Ahly ,Zamalek, and Ismaily. Ismaily played 35 matched, including the final match against Ahly . The team had 53 points, and scored 47 goals. The team won 20 matches:\n\nThe team tied 13 matches against: Marreekh, Zamalek, Ahly, Mokawiloon, Mansoura (1–1); Al Minya, Mahala, Port Fouad, Olympic, Masry (0–0).\n\nIsmaily lost twice, once to Ahly and once to Tersana, 1–0.\n\nFekry El Sagheer was the top scorer for the daraweesh, scoring a total of 13 goals. Besheer Abdel Samad scored 6, Atef Abdel Aziz scored 4, Yaser Ezzat and Hamza El Gamal scored 3, Ayman Ragab and Mohamed Salah Abu Greisha and Adham El Selehdar scored 2, and each of Shams Hamed, Hamadah Marzouk, Essam Abdel Al and Ahmed Kinawy scored 1.\n\nThe First Cup:\nIsmaily fans had experienced the League and the African Championship titles, so it was natural to expect a Cup victory soon. Ismaily won its first Cup title in the 1996–1997 season.\n\nIsmaily faced several hard matches in the playoff. In the quarter finals, Ismaily faced Zamalek in Ismailia Stadium and barely managed a 4–3 victory, with the last goal being scored in extra time. Ahmed Fekry and Magdy el Sayad each scored two. Ismaily then faced Port Fouad, the Black Horse of the tournament. Ismaily defeated Port Fouad 2–0 in Port Said; Ahmed Fekry scored both.\n\nThe final game was against Ahly in Cairo Stadium. Almost all Egyptian football fans expected a Red victory. Earlier that season, Ahly had crushed Ismaily 6–0 at home, which had resulted in the replacement of the team's Board of Directors. It seemed that Ismaily was not ready to take on Ahly. The match also witnessed the return of star defender Hamza El Gamal, who had been playing in Kuwait for one year.\n\nSurprisingly, Ismaily defeated Ahly, by Ahmed Fekry's famous goal: a beautiful shot from outside the 18-yard box.\n\nIsmaily was coached by Ali Abu Greisha and Ismail Hefny at the time.\n\nThe Second Cup: Ismaily fans had to wait only three more years for the second Egyptian Cup victory. Ismaily was crowned Egyptian Cup Champion for the second time in history in the 1999–2000 season.\n\nIt seemed only fair that Ismaily should win at least this competition that season. Ismaily played an excellent season beginning the League’s second half, and ended up second, narrowing the gap between them and Ahly to six points.\n\nAfter that, however, the team was totally dedicated to winning the Cup. In the quarter finals, Ismaily defeated Mansoura 2–0 in Ismailia Stadium. The two goals were African: Mamado Kita scored the first and John Otaka added the second. In the semis, Ismaily faced Ahly in Ismailia in a historical game. Ismaily was fired up to win the Cup; Ahly wanted to avenge a 4–3 loss in the same stadium a few months prior to this game.\n\nThe match ended 4–2 for Ismaily. Mohamed Barakat and John Otaka each scored two goals.\n\nIn the finals, Ismaily met Mokawiloon, who had eliminated Zamalek in the semis. However, Mokawiloon was no match for Ismaily’s spirit and talent, and despite playing an excellent match, lost 4–0. John Otaka and Barakat each scored once, and Mohamed Salah Abu Greisha scored two.\n\nThe following players participated in the Cup that season:\nAbdel Kader El Brazy, Ibrahim Farag, Mohamed Sobhy, Islam El Shater, Ayman Ramadan, Emad El Nahas, Reda Seka, Mohamed Younis, Sayed Moawwad, Hamam Ibrahim, Mohamed Hommos, Hossam Abdel Al, Saad Abdel Baky, Ahmed Salem, Mohamed Barakat, Ayman El Gamal, Tarek Fahiem, Mamado Kita, John Otaka, Sayed Ghareib, Khaled Bebo, Mohamed Salah Abu Greisha.\n\nMohsen Saleh managed the team, and was assisted by Mahmoud Gaber and Besheer Abdel Samad.\n\nTotal number of cups: 6.\n\n\nWinner 1\nRunner-up 1\nRunner-up 1\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Osman Ahmed Osman family has played a major role in the development of the club. Five out of the club's six tournaments were won under the leadership of an Osman-family member.\nThe club's first golden era, in which two tournaments were secured (Egyptian League and African Champions League), was established under the leadership of Osman Ahmed Osman, who continued to reside as President of the club for several years after that. Between 1996–2004, the Osman family entered the scene. This time, it was the second generation of Osman's leading the club. Osman Ahmed Osman's nephew, Ismail Osman, acted as Club President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, while three of Osman's sons, Ibrahim Osman, Ahmed Osman, and Mahmoud Osman, held seats in the Board. In particular, Ibrahim Osman held the post of Vice President and was given the responsibility of running the club's football team and youth school. During this period, the team effectively doubled its tournament chest by winning three tournaments: the Egyptian Cup twice (1997, 2000) and the Egyptian League once (2002). In addition, the team became a powerful regional/continental force, reaching advanced stages of several African club competitions (2nd place in CAF Cup 2000, semi-finals of CAF Cup Winner's Cup 2001, and the 2nd place in CAF Champions League 2003, as well 2nd place in the first Arab Champions League, 2004). Most of this team's players ended up either abroad or at the two local rivals (Ahly/Zamalek), sometimes after an expired contract and sometimes after a direct sale. The club also fell victim to massive financial problems, prompting the resignation of the Osman family. Fans have debated fiercely about this sequence of events, with some blaming the Osman family for the club's problems, while others defending the administration as a highlight in the club's history. Since no tournaments have been achieved since their departure, many fans currently call for a return of Osman administration.\n\n\n\nOne of the Largest Supporter Groups, ultras, is called \"Ultras Yellow Dragons\". The supporters are usually fans from the region of the Suez canal and their subsequent relocation due to the Suez crisis, which caused tensions with fellow Cairo club Al-Ahly SC.\n\nKit Sponsors : None\n\nOfficial Sponsor : Telecomegypt\n\nMobile Phone Sponsor : OPPO Electronics\n\nAutomotive Sponsor : Senova\n\n"}
{"id": "2115132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2115132", "title": "Jenny Levy Miller", "text": "Jenny Levy Miller\n\nJenny Miller, née Jenny Levy (born 1906, date of death unknown), was an American journalist. With her husband, Robert Talbott Miller, III, she is alleged to have participated in covert espionage activities for the Soviet Union during the Stalinist period.\n\nThe Millers were married in the American Embassy in Moscow in December 1935. Jenny, the daughter of an employee of the Academy of Sciences in Moscow, was employed by the English language \"Moscow News\", while Bob was on assignment for the \"Chattanooga News\". After the Spanish Civil War, the Millers returned to the United States and began operation of the \"Hemispheric News Service\" in New York City with Jack Fahy, a veteran of the International Brigades. The publication centered on Latin American affairs, and Jenny was the operations Secretary. In 1941 the Millers moved to Washington, D.C. and Joseph Gregg was hired as manager.\n\nThe Millers had an active social life with many friends. Pelageya (or Polia) Habicht, a Russian native and very close friend of Jenny was exchanged in 1941 to the United States for Gaik Ovakimian, Soviet \"rezident\" and head of Soviet foreign espionage activities in the United States from 1934 to 1941 at the time of his arrest as an unregistered foreign agent. Margaret (Peggy) Greenfield, a communist and economic writer and assistant chief of the Progress Reporting Branch, Division of Research, of the OPA was a frequent contact of Jenny. Elizabeth Bentley, part of the Soviet \"Golos\" spy ring, identified Jenny as one of her covert Soviet contacts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4217874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4217874", "title": "Joseph Cafasso", "text": "Joseph Cafasso\n\nSaint Joseph Cafasso (; 15 January 1811 – 23 June 1860) was an Italian Roman Catholic priest who was a significant social reformer in Turin. He was one of the so-called \"Social Saints\" who emerged during that particular era. He is known as the \"Priest of the Gallows\" due to his extensive work with those prisoners who were condemned to death. But he was also known for his excessive mortifications despite his frail constitution: he neglected certain foods and conditions to remain as frugal and basic as possible unless a doctor ordered otherwise.\n\nThe cause for his canonization commenced after his death that led to his beatification in mid-1925 and his canonization two decades later on 22 June 1947; he is a patron for Italian prisoners and prisoners amongst other things.\n\nGiuseppe Cafasso was born to peasants in Castelnuovo d'Asti as the third of four children. His sister Marianna (the fourth and last child) was later to become the mother of the Blessed Giuseppe Allamano. Cafasso had been born with a deformed spine which contributed to his short stature and frail constitution.\n\nIt was often said that no one who knew Cafasso as a child ever could recall him having sinned seeing him as a model individual. In his childhood Cafasso felt called to become a priest and so commenced his ecclesial studies in Turin and Chieri in order to achieve his dream. During this period he came to know another native of the town - Giovanni Bosco - whom he would later encourage and support in the work of caring for the street urchins in Turin giving them training in various trades. The two first met when Cafasso was twelve but both soon became lifelong friends. Cafasso received his ordination to the priesthood in the archdiocesan cathedral on 21 September 1833.\n\nHe underwent some further theological studies at the Turin college four months after his ordination and it was at that time that in 1834 that he came to know Luigi Guala (1775-1848) - the co-founder of the Institute of Saint Francis of Assisi. This college was dedicated to the higher education of the diocesan priests who were still recovering from the destruction of the Church's institutions under the Napoleonic invasion a generation earlier. He would be connected to this institution for the rest of his life advancing from student to lecturer to chaplain and then at last being named Guala's successor as the college's rector in 1848.\n\nHe - at some point - became a professed member of the Third Order of Saint Francis. In his role as a teacher he never neglected his duties as a priest and often aided those students in poor circumstances when he would provide them with books and other things needed for them to complete their studies.\n\nCafasso became a noted lecturer in moral theological subjects since 1836 and drew on the teachings of the French school in spiritual studies with its leading figures such as Pierre de Bérulle and Saint Vincent de Paul. But a major common element among these figures was the emphasis on the proper formation of priests and indeed ongoing formation it was to be. He worked against the spirit of Jansenism with its strong focus with sin and damnation which he had found to be influential amongst the students. He used the teachings of Saint Alphonsus Liguori and Saint Francis de Sales to moderate the rigorism of the education there while striving to offer simple values and morals as a greater substitute. He likewise fought against state intrusion in the affairs of the Church.\n\nThe priest was known for his practice of mortifications in the aim of becoming as frugal as possible. He never smoked nor did he drink things other than water alone. He never indulged in coffee nor things between his meals. He never complained about toothaches or headaches but bore his pain with remarkable resilience as a sign of his own personal cross. He was once asked whether or not his constant work ever wore him out and he said: \"Our rest will be in Heaven\". He celebrated Mass each 4:30am and was known for spending long hours in the confessional and chapel.\n\nHe was also a noted confessor and spiritual director who guided people who would go on to found new religious institutions or congregations which would help the Church to meet the needs of the whole world. Bosco was just one (Cafasso was his spiritual director from 1841 to 1860); another was the Venerable who became a noted advocate of women prisoners. The Blessed Francesco Faà di Bruno was but another that he guided as well as Blessed Clemente Marchisio. He was also known for his extensive work in the local prisons and served as the comforter of those condemned to death so much so that he was called \"The Priest of the Gallows\". There was even one occasion when this small and weak priest seized an enormous inmate's beard and told him he would not let go until the man confessed. The inmate did so and wept as he confessed (not from Cafasso tugging at his beard) while giving praise to God as he left the confessional. There was also another occasion in which he escorted 60 converted inmates who had been condemned to the gallows. Most of them were hanged straight after confessing and receiving absolution and so Cafasso referred to them as \"hanged saints\".\n\nHe died on 23 June 1860 and his friend Bosco (who wrote a biographical account of his old friend) preached though was not the celebrant for the Mass. Cafasso had died from pneumonia coupled with a stomach hemorrhage and complications from congenital medical issues. He bequeathed all he had in his will to the Little House of Divine Providence which was the religious order that Saint Giuseppe Benedetto Cottolengo had founded some decades before. The college he had headed until his death moved to the Santuario della Consolata in 1870 and this prompted his remains to be re-interred there.\n\nThe process for canonization opened in Turin in a local process that would assess his saintliness and evaluate his spiritual writings; the formal introduction to the cause came in an official decree that Pope Pius X signed on 23 May 1906 while the confirmation of his heroic virtue allowed Pope Benedict XV to title Cafasso as Venerable. Pope Pius XI confirmed two miracles attributed to Cafasso's intercession on 1 November 1924 while - in the official decree - labelling Cafasso as \"the educator and formation teacher of priests\". Pius XI presided over the beatification on 3 May 1925. Pope Pius XII confirmed two more miracles and canonized Cafasso in Saint Peter's Basilica on 22 June 1947.\n\nPius XII - on 9 April 1948 - declared him to be the patron saint of all Italian prisons and prisoners. In his apostolic exhortation \"Menti Nostrae\" - on 23 September 1950 - the pontiff further offered him as an example to all priests involved as confessors and spiritual directors.\n\nThere is a monument that has been erected in his honor in Turin at the road crossing of Corso Regina Margherita and Corso Principe Eugenio and Corso Valdocco (called the Rondò della Forca - or the Gallows Roundabout). In 1968 a church in the Tuscolano district in Rome was dedicated to him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32080318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080318", "title": "Kargopol toys", "text": "Kargopol toys\n\nKargopol toys () are moulded painted clay figures of people and animals. It is one of the old Russian folk art handicrafts, which is produced in and around the town of Kargopol, Arkhangelsk Oblast, in the north of Russia. It started in the 19th century in the areas west of Kargopol. The potters were not professionals, but just peasants who made toys in their spare time. A notable toy-maker in the beginning of the 20th century was Ivan Druzhinin (1887-1949). The handicraft almost became extinct in the 1930s. In the 1950s only one artist, Ulyana Babkina (1889-1977), was making the toys. Eventually, Babkina's toys received all-Russian recognition, were noticed by the Russian Artist Union, and the handicraft was revived.\n\nCurrently, bright colors (white, red, yellow, black) are typically used, in contrast to the old masters, who used the colored clay and produced toys in rather reserved colors.\n\nKargopol toys are typically single characters, and very seldom they represent a group of two or three characters. The front of a toy gets more decoration, and the toys are thus oriented to the front view.\n\nA singular character of Kagopol toys is a \"Polkan\" which is a combination of a human and a horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "719333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719333", "title": "Kwadi language", "text": "Kwadi language\n\nKwadi was a \"click language\" of uncertain classification once spoken in the southwest corner of Angola. It is believed to be extinct. There were only fifty Kwadi in the 1950s, of whom only 4–5 were competent speakers of the language. Three partial speakers were known in 1965, but in 1981 no speakers could be found.\n\nBecause Kwadi is poorly recorded, there is not much evidence with which to classify it. It is sometimes classified as the most known divergent member of the Khoe family, linking it to the Khoe languages in a \"Kwadi–Khoe\" family, though this conclusion is disputed. Proponents say it appears to have preserved elements of proto-Khoe that were lost in the western Khoe languages under the influence of Juu languages in Botswana.\n\nThe Kwadi people, called \"Kwepe\" (\"Cuepe\") by the Bantu, appear to have been a remnant population of southwestern African hunter-gatherers, otherwise only represented by the Cimba, Kwisi, and the Damara, who adopted the Khoekhoe language. Like the Kwisi they were fishermen, on the lower reaches of the Coroca River.\n\nKwadi was alternatively known by the varieties of \"Koroka\" (\"Ba-koroka, Curoca, Ma-koroko, Mu-coroca\") and \"Cuanhoca\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55263565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55263565", "title": "Lake Peipus dialect", "text": "Lake Peipus dialect\n\nLake Peipus dialect () is a Russian language variety spoken on both sides of the Lake Peipus in Pskov Oblast, Russia and some counties of Estonia. It originated as a mix of Pskov and Gdov dialects of the Central Russian cluster. As many other dialects from this area, it is often considered to be transitional between Russian and Belarusian. Lake Peipus dialects also include some loanwords from the Estonian language.\n\nThe dialect has been studied and described by Olga Rovnova of the University of Tartu who has conducted fieldwork in Russian Old Believers' communities in Estonia.\n\nLake Peipus dialect: Nie peckaj adiožynu, chto myt' i chystit' budie?\n\nStandard Russian: Nie pačkaj odieždu, kto myt' i chistit' budiet?\n\nEnglish: Do not stain your clothes, who will wash and clean it?\n"}
{"id": "41859553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41859553", "title": "Lal Loi", "text": "Lal Loi\n\nLal Loi is the Sindhi name for the festival of Lohri. Prior to the independence of Pakistan in 1947, Lal Loi was celebrated in some parts of Sindh. On the day of Lal Loi children brought wood sticks from their grand parents and aunties and lit a fire burning the sticks in the night with people enjoying, dancing and playing around the fire.\n\nSindhis believe that the focus of Lal Loi should be on getting rid of old belongings and cleansing the mind in readiness of the festival of Tirmoor which is observed the day after Lal Loi by all Sindhis. Tirmoor is the Sindhi name for Makar Sankranti. For Sindhis, Makar Sankranti means worshipping Lord Sun and flying kites.\n\nAccording to some, not all Sindhis observe Lal Loi and the festival may have been observed by people of Upper Sindh where historically there has been inward migration from Punjab. There are also linguistic similarities between the northern area of Sindh with the Punjab region. It is however difficult to establish where Lal Loi was celebrated in Sindh or if it is observed there now. However, the Sindhis community in India celebrate Lal Loi annually where festivals are organised in places such as Indore where the festival is organised by the Sindu Sabha, Mumbai and Udaipur.\n\nIn places where Sindhis and Punjabis live in the same city, joint Lal Loi/Lohri festivals are organised.\n\n"}
{"id": "4311503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4311503", "title": "Languages of Singapore", "text": "Languages of Singapore\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Singapore, the single national language of Singapore is Malay, which plays a symbolic role, as Malays are constitutionally recognized as the indigenous peoples of Singapore, and it is the government's duty to protect their language and heritage. “The national language shall be the Malay language and shall be in the Roman script […]” (Constitution of the Republic of Singapore, PART XIII) Also according to the constitution, the four commonly used languages of Singapore are English, Chinese, Malay and Tamil.\n\nThe three languages other than English were chosen to correspond with the major ethnic groups present in Singapore at the time: Mandarin had gained status since the introduction of Chinese-medium schools; Malay was deemed the \"most obvious choice\" for the Malay community; and Tamil for the largest Indian ethnic group in Singapore, in addition to being \"the language with the longest history of education in Malaysia and Singapore\". In 2009, more than 20 languages were identified as being spoken in Singapore, reflecting a rich linguistic diversity in the city. Singapore's historical roots as a trading settlement gave rise to an influx of foreign traders, and their languages were slowly embedded in Singapore's modern day linguistic repertoire.\n\nIn the early years, the \"lingua franca\" of the island was Bazaar Malay (\"Melayu Pasar\"), a creole of Malay and Chinese, the language of trade in the Malay Archipelago. While it continues to be used among many on the island, especially Singaporean Malays, Malay has now been displaced by English. English became the \"lingua franca\" due to British rule of Singapore, and was made the main language upon Singaporean independence. Thus, English is the medium of instruction in schools, and is also the main language used in formal settings such as in government departments and the courts. As Singaporean President Halimah Yacob said during her 2018 speech, “Through the education system, we adopted a common working language in English.”\n\nHokkien (Min Nan) briefly emerged as a \"lingua franca\" among the Chinese, but by the late 20th century they had been eclipsed by Mandarin. The Government promotes Mandarin among Singaporean Chinese people, since it views the language as a bridge between Singapore's diverse non-Mandarin speaking groups, and as a tool for forging a common Chinese cultural identity. China's economic rise in the 21st century has also encouraged a greater use of Mandarin. Other Chinese varieties such as Hokkien, Teochew, Hakka, Hainanese and Cantonese have been classified by the Government as \"dialects\", and language policies and language attitudes based on this classification and discouragement of usage in Non-Mandarin Chinese or \"Chinese dialects\" in official settings and television media have led to a decrease in the number of speakers of these varieties. In particular, Singapore has its own lect of Mandarin; Singaporean Mandarin, itself with two varieties, \"Standard\" and \"Colloquial\" or \"spoken\". While Tamil is one of Singapore's official languages, other Indian languages are also frequently used.\n\nAlmost all Singaporeans are bilingual since Singapore's bilingual language education policy promotes a dual-language learning system. Learning a second language has been compulsory in primary schools since 1960 and secondary schools since 1966. English is used as the main medium of instruction. On top of this, most children learn one of the three official languages (or, occasionally, another approved language) as a second language, according to their official registered ethnic group. Since 1 January 2011, if a person is of more than one ethnicity and their race is registered in the hyphenated format, the race chosen will be the one that precedes the hyphen in their registered race.\n\nAlthough \"de jure\" Malay is the national language, Singapore English is regarded \"de facto\" as the main language in Singapore, and is officially the main language of instruction in all school subjects except for Mother Tongue lessons in Singapore's education system. It is also the common language of the administration, and is promoted as an important language for international business. Spelling in Singapore largely follows British conventions, owing to the country's status as a former Crown Colony. English is the country's default \"lingua franca\" despite the fact that four languages have official status.\n\nUnder the British colonial government, English gained prestige as the language of administration, law and business in Singapore. As government administration increased, infrastructure and commerce developed, and access to education further catalysed the spread of English among Singaporeans.\n\nWhen Singapore gained self-government in 1959 and independence in 1965, the local government decided to keep English as the main language to maximise economic benefits. Since English was rising as the global language for commerce, technology and science, promotion of its use in Singapore would expedite Singapore's development and integration into the global economy.\n\nFurthermore, the switch to English as the only medium of instruction in schools aided in bridging the social distance between the various groups of ethnic language speakers in the country. Between the early 1960s to the late 1970s, the number of students registering for primarily English-medium schools leapt from 50% to 90% as more parents elected to send their children to English-medium schools. Attendance in Mandarin, Malay and Tamil-medium schools consequently dropped and schools began to close down. The Chinese-medium Nanyang University also made the switch to English as the medium of instruction despite meeting resistance, especially from the Chinese community.\n\nThere has been a steep increase in the use of the English language over the years. Singapore is currently the most proficient English-speaking country in Asia. Then Education Minister, Ng Eng Hen, noted a rising number of Singaporeans using English as their home language in December 2009. Of children enrolled in primary school in 2009, 60% of the Chinese and Indian pupils and 35% of the Malay pupils spoke predominantly English at home.\n\nEnglish is the native language of 32% of Singaporeans, but has the largest number of speakers if statistics were to account for speakers of English as a second language.\n\nSinglish is an English-based creole language with its own consistent rules and phonology widely used in Singapore. However, usage of this language is discouraged by the local government, which favours Standard English. The Media Development Authority does not support using Singlish in television and radio advertising.\n\nDespite this, Singlish is still widely spoken across the island and viewed by most Singaporeans as a trait that identifies them as uniquely Singaporean.\n\nAccording to the population census, Mandarin and other varieties of Chinese are the most common languages spoken at home. They are used by 51% of the population. The table below shows the change in distribution of Mandarin and other Chinese varieties, as well as English, as home languages of the resident Chinese population of Singapore in 1990, 2000 and 2010. It can be observed that the percentage of the population which speaks English and Mandarin has increased, while the percentage of those who speak other Chinese varieties has collapsed and is now limited mainly to the elderly. More recently, English is starting to displace Mandarin among the new generation of Singapore Chinese due to long term effects of the dominant usage of English in most official settings over Mandarin, the dominant usage of English as the medium of instruction in Singapore schools, colleges and universities, and the limited and lower standards of local mother education system over the years in Singapore.\n\nStandard Mandarin is generally spoken as the \"lingua franca\" among the Chinese community in Singapore. Simply known as Chinese, it is the designated mother tongue or 'ethnic language' of Chinese Singaporeans, at the expense of the other Chinese varieties.\n\nIn 1979, the government heavily promoted Mandarin through its \"Speak Mandarin\" campaign. The Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew stated that Mandarin was chosen to unify the Chinese community with a single language. With the rising prominence of Mandarin in Singapore at that time, politicians such as Lee theorized that it might overtake English, despite strong evidence to the contrary. From the 1990s, with the perceived increase in commerce and trade possibilities with Mainland China, the Singaporean government promoted Mandarin as a language with high economic advantage and value. Today, Mandarin is generally seen as a way to maintain a link to Chinese culture. However, due to fact that English is the main medium of language instruction in Singaporean schools, colleges and universities; as well as the limited and lower standards of local Mandarin Chinese education in Singapore and the dominant usage of English in most official settings, the standards of Mandarin Chinese among many young Singaporean Chinese has been dropping as more and more young Singaporean Chinese are speaking and using English more frequently than Mandarin Chinese.\n\nOther Chinese varieties also have a presence in Singapore. Amongst them, Hokkien (Min Nan) used to be an unofficial language of business until the 1980s. Hokkien is also used as a \"lingua franca\" among Chinese Singaporeans, and also among Malays and Indians to communicate with the Chinese majority. As of 2012, according to demographic figures, the five main Chinese linguistic groups in Singapore are Hokkien-Taiwanese (Southern Min; Min Nan) (41.1%), Other Min Nan variants (Teochew (21.0%) and Hainanese (6.7%)) Cantonese (15.4%) and Hakka (7.9%) , while Fuzhou dialect (Hokchia, Hokchew), Pu-Xian Min (HengHua), and Shanghainese have smaller speaker bases. However, in this present day, the two most commonly Chinese varieties spoken today among the older generation, some of the middle aged and the few of the younger generation are Hokkien-Taiwanese (Southern Min ; Min Nan) being the dominant dialect and Cantonese being second. Teochew, is being replaced by Hokkien-Taiwanese (Southern Min ; Min Nan), while other Chinese varieties are increasingly less commonly heard nowadays.\n\nTraditional Chinese characters were used in Singapore until 1969, when the Ministry of Education promulgated the \"Table of Simplified Characters\" (), which while similar to the Chinese Character Simplification Scheme of the People's Republic of China had 40 differences. In 1974 a new Table was published, and this second table was revised in 1976 to remove all differences between simplified Chinese characters in Singapore and China. Although simplified characters are currently used in official documents, the government does not ban the use of traditional characters. Hence, traditional characters are still used in signs, advertisements and Chinese calligraphy, while books in both character sets are available in Singapore.\n\nBahasa Melayu the standardised form of the Malay language, is the national language of Singapore and one of its official languages. It is written in a Roman script known as Rumi. It is the home language of 13% of the Singaporean population. Malay is also the ceremonial national language and used in the national anthem of Singapore, in citations for Singapore orders and decorations and military foot drill commands, mottos of several organizations, and is the variety taught in Singapore's language education system. Historically Malay was written in the Jawi script, based on Arabic. Under the British and Dutch Malay began to be written in Rumi. Efforts to create a standardised spelling for Malaya and Singapore emerged in 1904 by colonial officer Richard Wilkinson. In 1910 the Malay of the Riau Islands was chosen by the Dutch van Ophuijsen as the dialect for his book \"Malay Grammar\", intended for Dutch officials, standardising Rumi usage in Dutch territories. In 1933 grammarian Zainal Abidin bin Ahmad made further changes to Rumi as used in Malaya and Singapore. Many Chinese immigrants who spoke Malay were supporters of British rule, and purposely used Rumi when writing newspapers or translating Chinese literature. Printing presses used by colonial officials and Christian missionaries further spread Rumi, while Jawi was mostly written by hand. The transition to Rumi changed the Malay language due to the influence of English grammar. In 1972 Malaysia and Indonesia reached an agreement to standardise Rumi Malay spelling. Singaporean Malays still learn some Jawi as children alongside Rumi, and Jawi is considered an ethnic script for use on Singaporean Identity Cards.\n\nPrior to independence Singapore was a centre for Malay literature and Malay culture, however after independence its cultural role diminished. Singapore is an observer to the Language Council for Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia which works to standardise Malay spelling, however it has not applied to be a member. It nonetheless applies standardisations agreed to in this forum, and following the Malaysian standard when there are disagreements.\n\nOther varieties that are still spoken in Singapore include Bazaar Malay (\"Melayu Pasar\"), a Malay-lexified pidgin, which was once an interethnic \"lingua franca\" when Singapore was under British rule. Another is Baba Malay, a variety of Malay Creole influenced by Hokkien and Bazaar Malay and the mother tongue of the Peranakans, which is still spoken today by approximately 10,000 Peranakans in Singapore. Other Austronesian languages, such as Javanese, Buginese, Minangkabau, Batak, Sundanese, Boyanese (which is a dialect of Madurese) and Banjarese, are also spoken in Singapore, but their use has declined. Orang Seletar, the language of the Orang Seletar, the first people of Singapore and closely related to Malay is also spoken near the Johor Strait, between Singapore and the state of Johor, Malaysia.\n\nTamil is one of the official languages of Singapore and written Tamil uses the Tamil script. According to the population census of 2010, 9.2% of the Singaporean population were Indian origins, with approximately 76.7% who spoke Tamil most frequently as their home language. It is a drop from 2000, where Tamil-speaking homes comprised 82.9%. On the other hand, the percentage of Indian Singaporeans speaking languages categorised under \"others\" have increased from 9.7% in 2005 to 13.8% in 2010. Meanwhile, the percentage of the total population speaking Tamil at home has remained steady, or has even slightly risen over the years, to just above 4%, due to immigration from India and Sri Lanka.\n\nApart from Tamil, some of the other Indian languages spoken by minorities in Singapore include Kannada, Malayalam, Telugu, Punjabi, Sindhi, Hindi, and Gujarati.\n\nKristang is a creole spoken by Portuguese Eurasians in Singapore and Malaysia. It developed when Portuguese colonizers incorporated borrowings from Malay, Chinese, Indian and Arab languages. When the British took over Singapore, Kristang declined as the Portuguese Eurasians learned English instead. Today, it is largely spoken by the elderly.\n\nIn the 1824 census of Singapore, 18% of the population were identified as ethnic Bugis, speaking the Buginese language, counted separately from the Malays. Over the centuries, the Bugis community dwindled and became assimilated into the Malay demographic. In 1990, only 0.4% of Singaporeans were identified as Bugis. Today the term Malay is used in Singapore as an umbrella term for all peoples of the Malay Archipelago.\n\nThe majority of Singaporeans are bilingual in English and one of the other three official languages. For instance, most Chinese Singaporeans can speak English and Mandarin. Some, especially the older generations, can speak Malay and additional Chinese varieties such as Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hakka, and Hainanese.\n\nSingapore has a bilingual education policy, where all students in government schools are taught English as their first language. Students in Primary and Secondary schools also learn a second language called their \"Mother Tongue\" by the Ministry of Education, where they are either taught Mandarin, Malay, or Tamil. English is the main language of instruction for most subjects, while Mother Tongue is used in Mother Tongue lessons and moral education classes. This is because Singapore's \"bilingualism\" policy of teaching and learning English and Mother Tongue in primary and secondary schools is viewed as a \"cultural ballast\" to safeguard Asian cultural identities and values against Western influence.\n\nWhile \"Mother Tongue\" generally refers to the first language (L1) elsewhere, it is used to denote the \"ethnic language\" or the second language (L2) in Singapore. Prior to 1 January 2011, the Ministry of Education (MOE) in Singapore defined \"Mother Tongue\" not as the home language or the first language acquired by the student but by his/her father's ethnicity. For example, a child born to a Tamil-speaking Indian father and Hokkien-speaking Chinese mother would automatically be assigned to take Tamil as the Mother Tongue language.\n\nSince 1 January 2011, Mother Tongue is defined solely by a person's official registered race. If a person is of more than one ethnicity and their race is registered in the hyphenated format, the race chosen will be the one that precedes the hyphen in their registered race.\n\nThe Lee Kuan Yew Fund for Bilingualism was set up on 28 November 2011. The Fund aims to promote bilingualism amongst young children in Singapore, is set up to supplement existing English and Mother Tongue language programmes in teaching and language learning. It is managed by a Board chaired by the Singapore's Minister of Education, Mr Heng Swee Keat and advised by an International Advisory Panel of Experts.\n\nThe impact of the bilingual policy differs amongst students from the various ethnic groups. For the Chinese, when the policy was first implemented, many students found themselves struggling with two foreign languages: English and Mandarin. Even though several different Chinese varieties were widely spoken at home, they were excluded from the classroom as it was felt that they would be an \"impediment to learning Chinese\". Today, although Mandarin is widely spoken, proficiency in second languages has declined. In response to these falling standards, several revisions have been made to the education system. These include the introduction of the Mother Tongue \"B\" syllabus and the now-defunct EM3 stream, in both of which Mother Tongue is taught at a level lower than the mainstream standard. In the case of Mandarin, Chinese students would study Chinese \"B\".\n\nThe Malay-speaking community also faced similar problems after the implementation of the policy. In Singapore, Malay, not its non-standard dialects, is valued as a mean for transmitting familial and religious values. For instance, ‘Madrasahs', or religious schools, mosques and religious classes all employ the Malay language. However, Malay in turn is facing competition from the increased popularity of English.\n\nIn contrast to the language policy for Mandarin and Malay, Indian students are given a wider variety of Indian languages to choose from. For example, Indian students speaking Dravidian languages study Tamil as a Mother Tongue. However, schools with low numbers of Tamil students might not provide Tamil language classes. As a result, students from such schools will attend Tamil language classes at the Umar Pulavar Tamil Language Centre (UPTLC). On the other hand, Indian students who speak non-Dravidian languages can choose from Hindi, Bengali, Punjabi, Gujarati and Urdu. However, as with Tamil, only certain schools offer these non-Dravidian languages. Thus, students will attend their respective language classes at designated language centres, held by the Board for the Teaching and Testing of South Asian Languages (BTTSAL).\n\nIn 2007, in a bid to enhance the linguistic experience of students, the Ministry of Education strongly encouraged schools to offer Conversational Malay and Chinese to those who do not take either of these languages as their Mother Tongue. By providing the schools with the resources needed to implement the programme, the Ministry of Education has succeeded in significantly increasing the number of participating schools. More importantly, the programme was also well received by students.\n\nThe teaching of Mother Tongue (especially Mandarin) in schools has encountered challenges due to more Singaporeans speaking and using English at home. The declining standards and command of Mandarin amongst younger generations of Chinese Singaporeans continue to be of concern to the older generations of Chinese Singaporeans, as they perceive it to be an erosion of Chinese culture and heritage. This concern has led to the establishment the Singapore Centre for Chinese Language (SCCL) by the government on November 2009. The SCCL's stated purpose is to enhance the effectiveness of teaching Mandarin as a second language in a bilingual environment as well as to meet the learning needs of students from non-Mandarin speaking homes.\n\nDespite government efforts to promote Mandarin through the Speak Mandarin Campaign, the propagation of Mandarin and Chinese culture amongst Chinese Singaporeans continues to be a challenge because Mandarin faces stiff competition from the strong presence of English. However, this situation is not only limited to Mandarin, but also Malay and Tamil, where rising statistics show that English is progressively taking over as home language of Singaporeans.\n\nWith the influx of foreigners, the population of non-English speaking foreigners in Singapore offers new challenges to the concept of language proficiency in the country. Foreigners in Singapore constitute 36% of the population and they dominate 50% of Singapore's service sectors. Thus, it is not uncommon to encounter service staff who are not fluent in English, especially those who do not use English regularly. In response to this situation, the Straits Times reported that from July 2010, foreigners working in service sectors would have to pass an English test before they can obtain their work permits.\n\nLanguage plays an important role in Singapore's politics. Even until today, it is important for politicians in Singapore to be able to speak fluent English along with their Mother Tongue (including different varieties of Chinese) in order to reach out to the multilingual community in Singapore. This is evident in Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong's annual National Day Rally speech, which is communicated through the use of English, Malay and Mandarin.\n\nBefore the 1980s, it was common for politicians to broadcast their speech in Malay, English, Singaporean Hokkien, Singaporean Mandarin and other Chinese varieties. For instance, during the 1960s, Lee Kuan Yew learned and used Hokkien frequently in his political or rally speeches, as it was vital for him to secure votes in elections from the Hokkien-speaking community. Similarly, Lim Chin Siong, who was charismatic in the use of Hokkien, was able to secure opposition votes. Facing competition and difficulty in securing votes from the Chinese-educated, Lee Kuan Yew also had to learn Mandarin, in order to win the votes from the Mandarin-speaking community.\n\nAlthough the use of other Chinese varieties among the Singapore population has dwindled, they continue to be used in election rallies as of the 2011 parliamentary election. For instance, both Low Thia Khiang and Chan Chun Sing were noted for their usage of different Chinese varieties during election rallies.\n\nThere has been a continuous debate between the general Singaporean population and the Government with regard to the status of Singlish in local domains. While the government fears that the prevalence of Singlish would affect Singapore's overall image as a world class financial and business hub, most Singaporeans on the other hand have chosen to embrace Singlish as an identity marker and as a language of solidarity. In an attempt to eradicate the usage of Singlish, the government then began the Speak Good English Movement, encouraging people to use Standard Singaporean English in all contexts instead. Despite the success of the campaign, most Singaporeans surveyed still preferred the use of Singlish to communicate with fellow Singaporeans, and they also believed that they had the ability to code switch between Singlish and Standard Singaporean English, depending on the requirements of the particular situation.\n\nMost recently, Singlish came into the limelight when Republic of Singapore Air Force pilots supposedly used the language to much effect to prevent their American counterparts from intercepting their communications during the 2014 Red Flag exercise, resulting in a boost in support for the usefulness of Singlish among Singaporean netizens.\n\nChinese varieties (classified as dialects by the Singapore government), with the exception of Mandarin, have been in steep decline since the independence of Singapore in 1965. This is in part due to the Speak Mandarin Campaign that was launched in 1979. As part of the campaign, all programmes on TV and radio using non-standard varieties were stopped. Speeches in Hokkien by the prime minister were discontinued to prevent giving conflicting signals to the people. By the late 1980s, Mandarin managed to some extent, to replace these varieties as the preferred language for communication in public places, such as restaurants and public transport.\n\nThe preservation of local varieties in Singapore has been of increasing concern in Singapore since the 2000s, especially among the younger generation of Chinese youths. This sudden revival of other varieties can mainly be attributed to a feeling of disconnection between the younger and the elder generations, as well as a sense of loss of identity from their own linguistic roots for many others. While more work has to be put in to revive these varieties, the recent 2014 Singapore Teochew Festival held in Ngee Ann City can be regarded as a positive sign that more people are becoming more actively involved in reconnecting with their linguistic roots.\n\nIn March 2009, a newspaper article was published in Singapore broadsheet daily \"The Straits Times\" on a Language and Diversity Symposium organised by the Division of Linguistics and Multilingual Studies at Nanyang Technological University. Dr Ng Bee Chin, Acting Head of the Division, was quoted in the article as saying, \"Although Singaporeans are still multilingual, 40 years ago, we were even more multilingual. Young children are not speaking some of these languages at all any more. All it takes is one generation for a language to die.\"\n\nThis prompted a reply from Mr Chee Hong Tat, the Principal Private Secretary of Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew. In a letter to the editor in the Straits Times Forum, he underlined the importance of English and Mandarin over other Chinese varieties and how using these varieties \"interferes with the learning of Mandarin and English\"; a statement that Mr Lee Kuan Yew later corroborated in a speech at the 30th anniversary of the Speak Mandarin Campaign. Referring to the progress of Singapore's bilingual education policy over the decades, Mr Chee Hong Tat also commented that \"it would be stupid for any Singapore agency or NTU to advocate the learning of dialects, which must be at the expense of English and Mandarin.\"\n\nSince 2000, there has been an renewed interest in other Chinese varieties among Singaporean Chinese. In 2002, clan associations such as Hainanese Association of Singapore (Kheng Chiu Hwee Kuan) and Teochew Poit Ip Huay Kuan started classes to teach other Chinese varieties. This was in response to an increased desire among Singaporeans to reconnect with their Chinese heritage and culture through learning other Chinese varieties. In 2007, a group of 140 students from Paya Lebar Methodist Girls' Primary School learnt Hokkien-Taiwanese and Cantonese as an effort to communicate better with the elderly. The elderly themselves taught the students the varieties. The programme was organised in the hope of bridging the generational gap that was formed due to the suppression of these dialects in Singapore.\n\nLikewise, third-year students from Dunman High can now take a module called \"Pop Song Culture\". This module lets them learn about pop culture in different dialect groups through pop songs from the 70s and 80s performed in different varieties. Besides this, students can also take an elective on different flavours and food cultures from various dialect groups.\n\nAlthough the Singapore government appears to have relaxed its stance towards Chinese varieties in recent years, the fact is that they still did not actively support the widespread use of other Chinese varieties especially in the Singapore mainstream Television media. Recently, the Singapore Government allowed some local produced mini \"chinese dialect\" shows to be broadcast in Hokkien-Taiwanese and Cantonese dedicated to the Singapore Chinese elderly who speak Hokkien-Taiwanese or Cantonese but did not understand English or Mandarin Chinese. The aim of the local produced mini \"chinese dialect\" shows is to transmit important messages about social services and medical services and care to the Singapore Chinese Elderly. However, there are limited amount of \"Chinese Dialect\" shows that could be broadcast on Singapore's Mainstream Television due to the Singapore's Government strigent language policy.\n\nThe multi-ethnic background of Singapore's society can be seen in its linguistic landscape. While English dominates as the working language of Singapore, the city does not possess a monolingual linguistic landscape. These can be seen from the variety of signs strewn around the city. Signs are colour-coded and categorised by their respective functions: for example, signs which are pointing to attractions are brown with white words, while road signs and street names are green with white words. \nSome of the most evident signs of multilingualism in Singapore's linguistic landscape include danger/warning signs at construction sites, as well as road signs for tourist attractions. By observing the variation in languages used in the different contexts, we are able to obtain information on the ethnolinguistic vitality of the country.\n\nThe majority of Singapore's tourist attractions provide information through English in the Roman script. In many cases, the entrances of the attraction is written in English (usually with no other accompanying languages) while the distinctive brown road signs seen along streets and expressways which direct tourists come in up to four or five languages, with English as the largest and most prominent language on the sign.\n\nSome examples of the different ways in which popular tourist attractions in Singapore display ethnolinguistic diversity can be seen at tourist attractions such as Lau Pa Sat, where the words \"Lau Pa Sat\" on the directory boards consist of the Mandarin Chinese word \"lau\" for \"old\" (老;\"lăo\") and from the Hokkien words \"pa sat\" for \"market\" (巴刹;\"bā sha\"), written in roman script. The entrance sign of the attraction also includes a non-literal translation in English below its traditional name (Festival Market). It is also called the Telok Ayer Market, a name which makes reference to the location of the attraction and does not have anything to do with its cultural name.\n\nThe conversion and expression in Roman script of Mandarin and Hokkien into \"pīnyīn\" helps non-Mandarin and non-Hokkien speakers with the pronunciation of the name of a place whilst remaining in tandem with the use of English and Roman script in Singapore. The repackaging of the original names of Lau Pa Sat in Roman script, and inclusion of the appearance of an English translation as a secondary title can be seen as a way of heightening the sense of authenticity and heritage of the attraction as it is marketed as a culturally-rich area in Singapore, similar to Chinatown and Little India; both of which were formerly cultural enclaves of the distinctive races. Similarly in places that bear cultural significance, the signs are printed in the language associated with the culture, such as The Sun Yat Sen Nanyang Memorial Hall which has an entirely Chinese sign without any translations.\n\nSome notable exceptions include the brown directional road signs for the Merlion Park which are written not only in the four national languages, but also in Japanese. Although many variations exist, this arrangement is widely applied to most places of interest as well as places of worship, such as the Burmese Buddhist Temple which has signs in Burmese and some mosques in Singapore which also have their names printed in the Jawi script even though the Malay language was standardized with the Roman alphabet in Singapore.\n\nDespite the fact that Malay is the national language of Singapore, government buildings are often indicated by signs in English and not Malay. Comparing the relative occurrences of English and Malay in building signs, the use of the working language is far more common in Singapore's linguistic landscape than that of the national language, which is limited to ceremonial purposes. This can also be seen on the entrance sign to most Ministries and government buildings, which are expressed only in English, the working language.\n\nMost of the foreign embassies in Singapore are able to use their own national or working languages as a representation of their respective embassies in Singapore, as long as their language can be expressed in the script of any of Singapore's official languages. For example, embassies representing non-English speaking countries such as the French Embassy are allowed to use their own languages because the language can be expressed in Roman script, thus explaining why the French embassy uses its French name. However, for the case of the Royal Thai Embassy, English was chosen to represent it in Singapore because the Thai script is not recognized as a script in any of Singapore's official languages, even though English is less widely used in Thailand than standard Thai.\n\nOut of the eight general hospitals overseen by Singapore's Ministry of Health, only Singapore General Hospital has signages in the four official languages. Along Hospital Drive (where Singapore General Hospital is located) and various national medical centres, road directories are entirely in English. Within the hospital itself, signs for individual blocks, wards, Accident and Emergency department, Specialist Outpatient Clinics, National Heart Centre and National Cancer Centre have signs written in the four official languages. The English titles are still expressed with the largest font first, followed by Malay, Chinese and Tamil in smaller but equally-sized fonts, which is in accordance with order given by Singapore's constitution. Surprisingly, the Health Promotion Board, National Eye and Dental Centres, which are also in the same region, have English signs only. All of the other seven public hospitals have their \"Accident and Emergency\" sign in English only, with some highlighted in a red background.\n\nMessages and campaigns that have a very specific target audience and purpose are usually printed in the language of intended readers. For example, the \"No Alcohol\" signs put up along Little India after the Little India Riots are notably printed in only Tamil and English as a reflection of the racial demographics in the region.\n\nDuring the 2003 SARS epidemic, the government relied heavily on the media to emphasise the importance of personal hygiene, and also to educate the general public on the symptoms of SARS, in which a Singlish rap video featuring Gurmit Singh as Phua Chu Kang was used as the main medium. Similarly in 2014, the Pioneer Generation Package (for senior citizens above 65 years of age in 2014 who obtained Singapore citizenship on or before 31 December 1986) made use of Chinese varieties commonly spoken in Singapore such as Hokkien, Cantonese and Teochew, and also Singlish in order to make the policies more relatable, and at the same time raise awareness about the benefits that this new scheme provides for them. \nThese allowances of different language varieties is an exception to the four official languages. This exception is seen for campaigns that are deemed as highly important, and include the elderly, or those who are not as proficient in the English language as the target audience.\n\nWhile the above examples show how the different languages are used on signs within Singapore, there is scant data on the motivations behind these variations seen, as exemplified by the advisory for \"No Alcohol\" sales in Little India, which showcased a rare variation from the usage of the four main languages that are commonly seen on most advisory signs. Similarly, the Ministry of Health, in a response to a feedback requesting all hospitals to have four languages on its entrances, has claimed that usage of pictorial signages was better in conveying messages, as opposed to using all four languages. Due to problems in the research methodology and lack of governmental statutes that explain these variations, the study on the linguistics landscape in Singapore remain as a controversial field. These problems include non-linearity, where the large numbers of variations seen in Singapore prevents the application of any trends to understand the landscape; and also the lack of any standard legislation that determines any fixed rules on usage of languages on signs.\n\nIn a 2012 pilot program, SMRT trains began announcements of station names in both English and Mandarin Chinese so as to help Mandarin Chinese-speaking senior citizens cope better with the sudden increase in new stations. However, this received mixed reactions from the public. Some people pointed out that there were senior citizens who did not speak Mandarin, while others complained of feeling alienated. In reaction to this, SMRT claimed that the announcements were only recorded in English and Mandarin because the Malay and Tamil names of stations sounded very similar to the English names.\n\nIn 2013, a group of Tamil speakers petitioned the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore to include Tamil instead of Japanese on all the signs in the Singapore Changi Airport. Even though only 5% of the Singapore population speaks Tamil, they argued that since Tamil is one of the four official languages of Singapore, it should be used to reflect Singapore's multi-racial background.\n\nIn 2014, there were reports of erroneous translations on road signs of popular tourist attractions such as Lau Pa Sat and Gardens by the Bay made by the Singapore Tourism Board, mostly involving English to Tamil translations. According to \"The Straits Times\", rectifications are underway to ensure that the translations are now correct.\n\nThe free-to-air channels in Singapore are run by MediaCorp and each channel is aired in one of the four official languages of Singapore. For example, Channel U and Channel 8 are Mandarin-medium channels, Channel 5, Okto and Channel News Asia are English-medium channels, Suria is a Malay-medium channel, and Vasantham is a predominantly Tamil-medium channel. However, these channels might also feature programmes in other languages. For example, apart from programmes in Mandarin, Channel U also broadcasts Korean television programmes at specific allotted times.\n\nThe use of Chinese varieties other than Mandarin in Singapore media is restricted by the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts (MICA). The rationale given for the resistance towards nonstandard Chinese varieties was that their presence would hinder language learning of English and Mandarin. However, in order to cater to older Singaporeans who speak only non-standard Chinese varieties, videos, VCDs, DVDs, paid subscription radio services and paid TV channels are exempted from MICA's restrictions. Two free-to-air channels, Okto and Channel 8, are also allowed to show operas and arthouse movies with some non-standard variety content, respectively.\n\nThe use of Chinese varieties is not controlled tightly in traditional arts, such as Chinese opera. As such, they have managed to survive, and even flourish in these areas. In Singapore, various types of Chinese opera include Hokkien, Teochew, Hainanese and Cantonese. In the past, this diversity encouraged the translation between varieties for scripts of popular stories. After the implementation of the bilingual policy and Speak Mandarin Campaign, Mandarin subtitles were introduced to help the audience understand the performances. Today, as usage of English rises, some opera troupes not only provide English subtitles but also English translations of their works. For these English-Chinese operas, subtitles may be provided in either Mandarin, other Chinese varieties, or both. In this way, Chinese opera will be able to reach out to a wider audience despite being variety-specific.\n\nSimilar to Chinese opera, there are no language restrictions on entries for film festivals. In recent years, more local film makers have incorporated non-standard Chinese varieties into their films. For example, the local movie \"881\" revived the popularity of getai after it was released. Getai, which is mainly conducted in Hokkien and Teochew, became more popular with the younger generations since the release of the movie. On the effect triggered by the release of the movie \"881\", Professor Chua Beng Huat, Head of the Department of Sociology in the National University of Singapore (NUS), commented in the Straits Times that \"\"\"putting Hokkien on the silver screen gives Hokkien a kind of rebellious effect. It's like the return of the repressed\".\" The success of 881 is also reflected by album sales of \"881\" movie soundtrack, which became the first local film soundtrack to hit platinum in Singapore. In other instances, the movie \"Singapore Ga Ga\", a tissue seller sings a Hokkien song while \"Perth\" features a Singaporean taxi driver using Hokkien and Cantonese. Local directors have commented that non-standard Chinese varieties are vital as there are some expressions which just cannot be put across in Mandarin Chinese, and that the different Chinese varieties are an important part of Singapore that adds a sense of authenticity that locals will enjoy.\n\nIndian languages besides Tamil are managed slightly differently from the Chinese varieties. Even though only Tamil has official language status, there have been no attempts to discourage the use or spread of other Indian languages such as Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Malayalam, Punjabi, Telugu, and Urdu. For one, movies in these languages are shown in some local cinemas, such as Rex and Screens of Bombay Talkies. Furthermore, the local Indian TV channel Vasantham has also allocated specific programme timeslots to cater to the variety of Indian language speakers in Singapore.\n\nChinese clan associations play a role in maintaining the non-standard Chinese varieties. In the past, they provided support to migrant Chinese, based on the province they originated. Today, they provide a place for people who speak the same variety to gather and interact. For example, the Hokkien Huay Kuan holds classes for performing arts, calligraphy, and Hokkien Chinese. They also organize the biennial Hokkien Festival, which aims to promote Hokkien customs and culture. With such efforts, perhaps non-standard Chinese varieties in Singapore will be better equipped to resist erosion.\n\nApart from the efforts to maintain local Chinese varieties, the Eurasian Association holds Kristang classes for people who are interested in learning Kristang. In this way, it hopes to preserve what it perceives to be a unique part of the Eurasian heritage in Singapore.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8412577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412577", "title": "Leopold Griffuel Prize", "text": "Leopold Griffuel Prize\n\nThe Leopold Griffuel Prize (Prix Leopold Griffuel) is sponsored by the French ARC Foundation for Cancer Research.\n\nThe prize is designed to reward the accomplishments of and encourage further research among the world's leading cancer researchers. Past American recipients of the Griffuel Prize include Samuel Broder, former director of the National Cancer Institute; C. Everett Koop, former U.S. Surgeon General, and Anita Roberts, pioneer in research on TGF-beta.\n\nRecipients receive a cash award of €150,000 (valued at approximately US$200,000 as of 2014).\n\nSource (to 2005) : ARC\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34212909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34212909", "title": "Longo Maï", "text": "Longo Maï\n\nThe Longo Maï Co-operatives are a network of agricultural co-operatives with an anti-capitalist ideological focus. Founded in 1973 in Limans the network has spread in Europe and to Central America.\n\nFollowing the events of May 68 groups of students from Austria and Switzerland who held anarchist ideologies collaborated to raise funds to allow them to buy land upon which to start to farm collectively. In 1973 they purchased 270 hectares of land at Limans near Forcalquier.\n\nThe communities ideological leader was Roland Perrot, a military deserter from the war in Algeria. Perrot knew Jean Giono and had experienced the free commune in Contadour in the 1930s. The ideological focus of the community is anti-militarist and pacifist, anti-capitalist and egalitarian. Activities focus upon self-sufficiency, community life, craft and agricultural production, the joint management of energy, water and respect for the environment.\n\nLongo Maï has been involved with various international solidarity efforts with a particular focus on resistance against dictatorships.\n\nThe ten Longo Mai co-operatives operate in a network:\n\n\nThe head office of the cooperative is in Basel, from which are organised campaigns to collect donations (about five million francs a year in the 1990s).\nThe cooperative also has media operations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4944583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944583", "title": "Los Angeles Tennis Club", "text": "Los Angeles Tennis Club\n\nThe Los Angeles Tennis Club (LATC) is a private tennis club opened in 1920 that was the host of the Pacific Southwest Championships from 1927 until 1974 and 1980 until 1983. It is located at 5851 Clinton Street, between Wilcox and Rossmore, one block south of Melrose Avenue. It is currently the home of the Southern California Championships.\n\nThe club was founded in 1920 and Thomas C. Bundy was elected as its first president.\n\nPerry T. Jones was a major fundraiser and took control of Southern California tennis in 1930. He set up his office at the Club with his loyal Secretary, Doris Cooke, and made it famous through his junior development patrons network. It reached from Santa Barbara to San Diego and came together at the LATC to produce a steady stream of world-class tennis players. dubbed \"the cradle of tennis.\" Jones believed in schooling, cleanliness, proper attire, and sportsmanship when helping players develop into champions. He became Davis Cup Captain in 1958, recruited, mentored and named Alex Olmedo to the team, that included Barry MacKay and Ham Richardson, and won the Davis Cup from Australia, that year. Jack Kramer and Pancho Gonzales acted as advisors to Jones. Jones was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1970. He established the Southern California Tennis Association (SCTA) Hall of Fame in 1968, and was known as \"Mr. Tennis of the West Coast\".\n\nFrom the 1930s through the early 1970s, the LATC was the center of development for world-class players in the United States. In 1930, Perry T. Jones, became President of the Southern California Tennis Association and the Director of the Southern California Championships and Pacific Southwest Tennis Championships. Bill Tilden was the first winner of the Pacific Southwest tournament in 1927. Jones designed what he termed \"The Factory System\" that utilized Tennis Patrons in San Diego, Long Beach, Pasadena, Beverly Hills, and Santa Monica, such as: Harper Ink, Charles Lane, Dr. Ben Parks, Jack Lynch, Bob Martin, and Helen Roark; and Tennis Teachers: Mercer Beasley, Esther Bartosh, Ben Press, Clyde Walker, Wilbur Folsom, Dick Skeen, Pancho Segura, Carl Earn, Eleanor Tennant, Linda Crosby, Vic Braden, Myron McNamara, and Robert Lansdorp to identify and funnel top-flight junior players to his attention, so he could make them champions with funding, top competition, and tournaments, such as: Ellsworth Vines, Gene Mako, Jack Tidball, Jack Kramer, Joe Hunt, Pauline Betz, Bobby Riggs, Bob Falkenburg, Pancho Gonzales, Ted Schroeder, Joe Hunt, Dave Freeman, Budge Patty, Dodo Cheney, Herb Flam, Hugh Stewart, Pat Yeomans, Gussie Moran, Louise Brough, Maureen Connolly, Beverly Baker, Alex Olmedo, Darlene Hard, Billie Jean King, Sally Moore, Karen Hantze, Mike Franks, Bill Bond, Rafael Osuna, Dennis Ralston, Jon Douglas, Allen Fox, Stan Smith, Charlie Pasarell, Bob Lutz, George Toley, and many others. Jack Kramer writes in his autobiography in 1979, that \"if you wanted top competition, you had to play at the LATC — especially since there were many fewer tournaments then and practice was the vogue.\" Jones was a strong-willed autocrat who excluded the young Pancho Gonzales from the Club because of his school truancy. He sometimes would not sponsor Bobby Riggs for Eastern Tournaments. He also achieved notoriety for excluding a 12-year-old Billie Jean King from a group photo at the Club, because she was wearing shorts instead of a tennis dress.\n\nIn 1952, Angela Buxton, who in 1956 won competitions at Wimbledon and the French Championships, encountered anti-Semitism at the club. \"They told me I couldn't play because I was Jewish,\" she said. She trained elsewhere, and had the opportunity to work with Bill Tilden.\n\nWhen he was still a teenage player, Kramer writes, he could \"get matches against Ellsworth Vines, Bill Tilden, Bobby Riggs, Gene Mako, Joe Hunt, Ted Schroeder, Jack Tidball, Frank Shields, and – often as not – the players on the UCLA and University of Southern California teams. George Toley won 10 NCAA Team Titles as Coach of USC, and was the Teaching Professional at the Club. Sidney Wood would come in for long periods from the East, and Frank Kovacs from Northern California.\" \"Big Bill\" Tilden, the dominant player of the 1920s and the leading gate attraction of the 1930s, was a Philadelphian, who spent much of his time in Los Angeles and at the LATC, playing matches in the morning and bridge in the afternoon.\n\nFor five decades, the Pacific Southwest Championships, open only to amateurs until 1968, and played at the LATC, was the second most prestigious American tennis tournament. In preparation for the 1984 Summer Olympics, Leonard Strauss, an LATC member and Chairman of Thrifty Drug Stores, spearheaded construction of a new 5,800 seat tennis stadium on the UCLA campus, which now hosts Southern California's major annual professional tennis event.\n\nThe LATC remains an important tournament, recreation, and community resource for Los Angeles and its Hancock Park community. Owned by 360 equity members, the LATC provides 16 tennis courts along with pool, gym, dining, and bar facilities to its 400 members and their families and guests. The LATC continues to host several amateur, collegiate, and charity tournaments. It is a practice venue for the Loyola High and Marlborough School tennis teams.\n\nAs of 2017 the fee for new equity memberships is $25,000, not including quarterly and monthly dues, and new applicants undergo a lengthy acceptance process that can take several months and require direct approval of the board.\n\n"}
{"id": "25102186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25102186", "title": "MTV Europe Music Award for Best Arabia Act", "text": "MTV Europe Music Award for Best Arabia Act\n\nThe following is a list of the MTV Europe Music Award winners and nominees for Best Arabian Act. In 2012 award was given as Best Middle East Act.\n"}
{"id": "14630761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14630761", "title": "Mona the Virgin Nymph", "text": "Mona the Virgin Nymph\n\nMona (1970) (also promoted as Mona; the Virgin Nymph) is a sexually explicit adult film that contains a number of unsimulated non-penetrative sex scenes. The film is regarded as the second sexually explicit film to receive a general theatrical release in the United States, after \"Blue Movie\" (1969). Unlike \"Blue Movie\", however, \"Mona\" had a plot, though there was more emphasis on the action. \n\n\"Mona\" helped pave the way for other films containing unsimulated sex scenes that later appeared in theaters, during the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984); and was one of the films of the time on which some later films were based. \"Deep Throat\" (1972), for example, borrowed elements of Mona's plot. \n\n\"Mona\" was produced by Bill Osco and directed by Michael Benveniste and Howard Ziehm, though the film was screened without credits due to legal concerns. The earnings from the film, believed to be $2 million, helped finance the directors' later film \"Flesh Gordon\" (1974). The team also produced another adult movie \"Harlot\" (1971), and Bill Osco later produced the similarly explicit \"Alice in Wonderland\" (1976).\n\nMona (Fifi Watson) and her fiancé Jim (Orrin North) are having a picnic, and they both strip and began to make love, but she halts him claiming that she had promised her mother (Judy Angel) that she wouldn't have intercourse until marriage. However, she joyfully performs fellatio on Jim. Afterwards, Mona also has cunnilingus performed on her by a prostitute (Susan Stewart). In a movie theatre, Mona masturbates and provides oral sex to a nearby male patron (Gerard Broulard). After mother and daughter confess their full-on sexual indiscretions, Jim ties Mona to a bed, and all of her previous partners surround her and engage in a very long, intense oral sex party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25190722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190722", "title": "Montenegrin mafia", "text": "Montenegrin mafia\n\nThe Montenegrin mafia (Crnogorska mafija) refers to the various criminal organizations based in Montenegro or composed of Montenegrins. There are 700 documented organized criminals operating within Montenegro; outside of the country Montenegrin gangs are active throughout Europe-notably Serbia and Slovenia. The gangs tend to specialize in cigarette smuggling, narcotics and arms trafficking.\n\nThe Montenegrin police have just recently begun documenting and taking action against the many criminal gangs within Montenegro, discovering a vast network of powerful cartels and groups that play a central role in organized crime within the Balkans.\n\nIn Podgorica there are four prominent gangs, each loosely working with one another.\n\nMaljota, Toma Marko Đurašević and Zoran Bukilic were leaders of a group whose \"specialty\" is drug smuggling from Albania. They additionally smuggle weapons and export stolen luxury cars into Albania. \nThey are associated with the other prominent gangs in Podgorica, also doing business with the Nikšić Mob, Serbian and Albanian mafia.\n\nLeon and Viktor Drešaj run a drug cartel based in Podgorica, dealing with major heroin trafficking from Albania into Montenegro. They work closely with the Đurašević Brothers and together control the transit of illicit drugs across the Montenegrin border into the rest of the Balkan states.\n\nIn 2006 during operation \"Poskok\" the ica narkomanF were arrested along with Maljota Đurašević and several other gangsters for possession and intent to sell illegal narcotics.\n\nOne of the most powerful men in Podgorica is Mehmed \"Bela\" Đoković, an alleged boss of a criminal organization from Podgorica. His organization has been known to deal with human trafficking (primarily Albanians and Kosovars being illegally smuggled into Western Europe and America). The police believe \"Bela\" to be involved in the Đurašević-Drešaj drug trafficking operation as well.\n\nThe organization are primarily involved in smuggling, arms trafficking, protection rackets and illegal gambling.\nThe group are organized in the horizontal manner and higher-ranked members are not necessarily coordinated by any leader. The organization has a local reputation to have connections with corrupt high-ranking men in Herceg Novi Regional Police Unit.\nBrothers Vjeko and Jugoslav Lambulić control a drug-dealing operation, operating in Switzerland, funneling money back to Montenegro. In 2003 they opened up a business firm and restaurant in Podgorica, using these locations as fronts to hide their source of income.\n\nVjeko was recently arrested in Belgrade, wanted by Interpol and Swiss police for drug dealing. In court he was tried for smuggling three and a half kilos of Cocaine and Money Laundering and sentenced to 20 years in prison.\n\nDuring the trial the police found a hidden 120,000 euros, to which Jugoslav claimed he won a million marks at a Belgrade casino.\n\nThe Podgoricans are heavily affiliated with the gangs of Bar, who the Montenegrin police claim in recent times have taken over much of the Montenegrin underworld. \nThe Bar gangs noticeably have a higher level of organization, financial means and connections throughout Montenegro and the rest of Europe. There are two main cartels based in the city of Bar.\n\nThe larger of the two main gangs in Bar, the \"Bar Kartel\" is allegedly led by three individuals: Saša Boreta, Ljubo Bigović and Armin \"Mušo\" Osmanagić. This gang is known in Bar for its violence and is believed to have strong connections to organized criminal groups in the Belgrade underworld as well as the surrounding ex-YU countries, Albania, Western Europe and South America. It is believed the Bar Kartel deals with Extortion, Drug Trafficking and Human Trafficking. Reputed lower-ranking members being Ljubo Vujadinović and Alen Kožar.\n\nThe Bar Kartel were responsible for many high-profile criminal acts in Montenegro, such as the murder of the Montenegrin Police Commissioner Slavoljub Šćekić and the bombing of Hotel Splendid during its construction.\n\nThe other gang from Bar is controlled by brothers Dragoslav and Duško Ivanović, whose primary focus is Narco-Trafficking and Loansharking.\n\nAlso in the drug business is the Nikšić Mob or \"Kvartaši\"; some known members are: Željko Kovačević, Radovan and Petar Cerović, Rajko and Radovan Baćović . It is believed that the Nikšić Mob is the largest criminal organization within Montenegro, reputedly active in Drug Trafficking, Distribution, Extortion, Loansharking, Gambling and Arms Dealing. They work mainly with the Podgorica groups and the Bar Cartels.\n\nThere have been two attempts on mobster Predrag \"Krcko\" Krcunović's life: the first was a few days after Orthodox Christmas in mid-day, in front of a crowded Café and hundreds of pedestrians. Krcko was shot at 8 times however managed to escape untouched.\nThe second attempt was later that year in the center of Nikšić, Krcko was shot at while entering a taxi cab. The cab door riddled with bullet holes, Krcko survived the attack unscathed.\n\nIn 2008, a man was shot at in the streets of Nikšić by reputed Nikšić mobster Miloš Radulović, the shots missed-hitting the 12-year-old Milica Đokić and critically wounding her. Later the man's car was found in flames.\nWith the strife in nearby Kosovo and the financial means, a gang in Rožaje became very wealthy and powerful very quickly. This group deals almost completely in trafficking heroin from Albanians. The leadership of the group is divided between two sets of brothers, the Musić and Bećiragić. Members include: Mersad Zejnelagić, Sead Lukač and Safet Kalić, many of the members operate outside of Montenegro.\n\nThis gang based in the town of Berane largely operates outside of the country. They deal mostly in drug distribution, dealing cocaine and heroin in Serbia and Western Europe (notably Sweden). Arrested and reputed members include: Vuk Vulević, Milan \"Čila\" Šćekić, Vukšan Cemović, Velibor Popović, Enes Korać, Branislav \"Nano\" Ivanović, Dragan Labudović, Draško Vuković, Boris Laban, and the Rajović brothers (Radisav, Goran i Srđan). Rivals of the Rajović brothers are the Marsenić brothers (Vojislav, Vladan and their cousins). Their rivalry began in 1996 when one of the Rajović brothers was wounded. Then in 1997 one of Marsenić brothers, Komnen \"Koka\" Marsenić was shot and killed by the Rajović brothers, and his friend, also one of Berane's tough guy-Zoran \"Zoko\" Vasović was wounded. Shootings between these families happened in 1996,1997,1998 (when the Marsenić family tried to take revenge for Komnen's death in front of the court), and in 2000 when an innocent bystander was killed.\n\nAlso, there are many names, with no criminal history, known as \"shadow people\", and have a good relationships with both sides.\n\nThe Berane group works mainly outside of the country,and Berane's tough guys are widespread across Europe, mainly Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Italy, even in Latin America.\n\nWith a large Montenegrin community, Serbia is host to many Montenegrin criminals and gangs. Operating mainly in the capital of Belgrade and Montenegrin enclaves in southern Serbia, these groups largely deal with the smuggling of narcotics and weapons. Some of these groups are also considered a part of Serbian Mafia. The issue is part of the controversy over ethnic and linguistic identity in Montenegro.\n\nOn September 10, 2009 Montenegrin businessman Branislav Šaranović was shot to death outside of his apartment in Belgrade.Although mainly residing in Budva, Montenegro, Branislav owned a casino in Belgrade made close ties to Brano Mićunović and Milo Đukanović.\n\nReputed gangster Brano Mićunović is rumored to be the boss of the Montenegrin mafia.\n\n"}
{"id": "4891452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891452", "title": "Moro Nuba people", "text": "Moro Nuba people\n\nThe Moro Nuba are a sub-ethnic group of the Nuba peoples in the Nuba Mountains of South Kordofan state, in southern Sudan. Many members of this ethnicity are Christians. The population of this ethnicity possibly does not exceed 100,000. \n\nThe Moro Nuba speak Moro language of the Kordofanian languages group, in the major Niger–Congo language family.\n\n"}
{"id": "5950988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5950988", "title": "Nakharar", "text": "Nakharar\n\nNakharar ( \"naxarar\", from Parthian \"naxvadār\" \"holder of the primacy\") was a hereditary title of the highest order given to houses of the ancient and medieval Armenian nobility.\n\n\"Medieval Armenia\" was divided into large estates, which were the property of an enlarged noble family and were ruled by a member of it, to whom the title of \"nahapet\" \"chief of the family\" or \"tanuter\" \"master of the house\" was given. Other members of a \"nakharar\" family in their turn ruled over smaller portions of the family estate. \"Nakharars\" with greater authority were recognized as \"ishkhans\" (princes). \n\nThis system has often been labelled as feudal for practical purposes; however, there are differences between this system and the feudal system later adopted in Western Europe. The estate as a whole was actually ruled by a single person, it was nonetheless considered the property of his whole enlarged family, so that, if the ruler died heirless, he was succeeded by a member of a different branch of the family. Furthermore, it was allowed to alienate a part of the family estate only to another member of the family or by permission of the whole enlarged family. This may also explain why Armenian feudal families were normally endogamic, in order not to scatter parts of their property, as would have happened if they had to give a part of their property to another family as dowry. It must also be noted that endogamic marriages had a religious reason too, particularly before Christianity, because Armenian paganism favoured marriages between relatives very highly. \n\nEach \"nakharar\" had his own army, depending on his domain. The national force or \"royal cavalry\" was under the \"sparapet\", a commander-in-chief who presided over the whole of the nation. After the country's Christianization, schools and courts were all run by the Armenian clergy. \n\nIn 4th-century Armenia, as in Parthia, large estates were hereditarily possessed by noble families and actually ruled by one of their members. The whole enlarged family was devoted to the worship of the same ancestors, lived in small fortified villages and spent most part of their time in hunting and in banqueting. Furthermore, each \"nakharar\" family had a particular social function: in Armenia a member of the Arshakuni family was chosen as king, who was consequently a sort of primus inter pares; the Mamikonians fielded the \"sparapet\", one of the Bagratunis was the cavalry chief (\"aspet\") and king crowner (\"tagadir\"), and so on.\n\nThe origin of the \"nakharars\" seems to stretch back to pagan Armenia, which coexisted with the Roman and Parthian Empires, and they are mentioned to have pillaged many pagan temples when Armenia's conversion to Christianity began under Tiridates III.\n\nThe \"nakharars\" survived the fall of the Arshakuni dynasty and the subsequent placement of the Marzban Governor-Generals by Sassanid king, and allowed a great deal of autonomy for the vassal state, up until the attempted conversion of Armenia to Zoroastrianism by Yazdegerd II, in which Vartan Mamikonian led a rebellion, and through the Battle of Vartanantz convinced the Persians that conversion would come at to high a price, eventually leading to the Nvarsak Treaty.\n\nIn western Armenia under Byzantine rule, Justinian's reforms removed the martial role of the \"nakharars\", as well as attempting to annex estates from Armenian nobles. The \"nakharars\", angered at their restriction in power, began a full-scale insurrection that had to be quelled through swift military intervention, eventually sparking war with the Sassanids. \n\nThough weakened by numerous invasions and the legal reforms of Kings, the \"nakharar\" structure remained virtually unchanged for many centuries and was finally eliminated during the Mongol invasions in the thirteenth century. Certain aspects of the \"nakharar\" system remained intact in Armenia until the early 20th century, when the noble class was altogether abolished by the Bolsheviks.\n"}
{"id": "21670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670", "title": "New Zealand English", "text": "New Zealand English\n\nNew Zealand English (NZE) is the variant of the English language spoken and written by most English-speaking New Zealanders. Its language code in ISO and Internet standards is en-NZ. English is one of New Zealand's three official languages (along with New Zealand Sign Language and the Māori language) and is the first language of the majority of the population.\n\nThe English language was established in New Zealand by colonists during the 19th century. It is one of \"the newest native-speaker variet[ies] of the English language in existence, a variety which has developed and become distinctive only in the last 150 years\". The most distinctive influences on New Zealand English have come from Australian English, English in southern England, Irish English, Scottish English, the prestige Received Pronunciation (RP), and Māori.\nNew Zealand English is most similar to Australian English in pronunciation, with some key differences.\n\nThe first dictionary with entries documenting New Zealand English was probably the \"Heinemann New Zealand Dictionary\", published in 1979. Edited by Harry Orsman (1928–2002), it is a 1,337-page book, with information relating to the usage and pronunciation of terms that were widely accepted throughout the English-speaking world, and those peculiar to New Zealand. It includes a one-page list of the approximate date of entry into common parlance of the many terms found in New Zealand English but not elsewhere, such as \"haka\" (1827), \"Boohai\" (1920), and \"bach\" (1905). A second edition was published in 1989 with the cover subtitle \"the first dictionary of New Zealand English and New Zealand pronunciation\". A third edition, edited by Nelson Wattie, was published as \"The Reed Dictionary of New Zealand English\" by Reed Publishing in 2001.\n\nThe first dictionary fully dedicated to the New Zealand variety of English was \"The New Zealand Dictionary\", published by New House Publishers in 1994 and edited by Elizabeth and Harry Orsman. A second edition was published in 1995, edited by Elizabeth Orsman.\n\nIn 1997, Oxford University Press produced the Harry Orsman-edited \"The Dictionary of New Zealand English: A Dictionary of New Zealandisms on Historical Principles\", a 981-page book which it claimed was based on over 40 years of research. This research started with Orsman's 1951 thesis and continued with his editing this dictionary. To assist with and maintain this work, the New Zealand Dictionary Centre was founded in 1997. It has published several more dictionaries of New Zealand English, including \"The New Zealand Oxford Paperback Dictionary\", edited by New Zealand lexicographer Tony Deverson in 1998, culminating in the 1,374-page \"The New Zealand Oxford Dictionary\" in 2004, by Tony Deverson and Graeme Kennedy. A second, revised edition of \"The New Zealand Oxford Paperback Dictionary\" was published in 2006, this time using standard lexicographical regional markers to identify the New Zealand content, which were absent from the first edition.\n\nAnother authoritative work is the \"Collins English Dictionary\" first published in 1979 by HarperCollins, which contains an abundance of well-cited New Zealand words and phrases, drawing from the 650 million word Bank of English, a British research facility set up at the University of Birmingham in 1980 and funded by Collins publishers. Although this is a British dictionary of International English there has always been a credited New Zealand advisor for the New Zealand content, namely Professor Ian Gordon from 1979 until 2002 and Professor Elizabeth Gordon from the University of Canterbury since 2003. New Zealand-specific dictionaries compiled from the \"Collins English Dictionary\" include the \"Collins New Zealand Concise English Dictionary\" (1982), \"Collins New Zealand School Dictionary\" (1999) and \"Collins New Zealand Paperback Dictionary\" (2009.)\n\nAustralia's \"Macquarie Dictionary\" was first published in 1981, and has since become the authority on Australian English. It has always included an abundance of New Zealand words and phrases additional to the mutually shared words and phrases of both countries. Every edition has retained a New Zealander as advisor for the New Zealand content, the first being Harry Orsman and the most recent being noted New Zealand lexicographer Laurie Bauer.\n\nA more light-hearted look at English as spoken in New Zealand, \"A Personal Kiwi-Yankee Dictionary\", was written by the American-born University of Otago psychology lecturer Louis Leland in 1980. This slim volume lists many of the potentially confusing and/or misleading terms for Americans visiting or emigrating to New Zealand. A second edition was published in 1990. \n\nFrom the 1790s, New Zealand was visited by British, French and American whaling, sealing and trading ships. Their crews traded European goods with the indigenous Māori. The first settlers to New Zealand were mainly from Australia, many of them ex-convicts or escaped convicts. Sailors, explorers and traders from Australia and other parts of Europe also settled.\n\nWhen in 1788 the , most of New Zealand was nominally included, but no real legal authority or control was exercised. However, when the New Zealand Company announced in 1839 its plans to establish colonies in New Zealand this and the increased commercial interests of merchants in Sydney and London spurred the British to take stronger action. Captain William Hobson was sent to New Zealand to persuade Māori to cede their sovereignty to the British Crown and on 6 February 1840, Hobson and about forty Māori chiefs signed the Treaty of Waitangi at Waitangi in the Bay of Islands. From this point onward there was considerable European settlement, primarily from England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland; and to a lesser extent the United States, India, China, and various parts of continental Europe. Some 400,000 settlers came from Britain, of whom 300,000 stayed permanently. Most were young people and 250,000 babies were born. New Zealand ceased to be part of New South Wales and became a British colony on 1 July 1841.\n\nGold discoveries in Otago (1861) and Westland (1865), caused a worldwide gold rush that more than doubled the population from 71,000 in 1859 to 164,000 in 1863. Between 1864 and 1865, under the New Zealand Settlements Act 1863, 13 ships carrying citizens of England, Ireland and South Africa arrived in New Zealand under the Waikato Immigration Scheme. In the 1870s and 1880s, several thousand Chinese men, mostly from Guangdong province, migrated to New Zealand to work on the South Island goldfields. Although the first Chinese migrants had been invited by the Otago Provincial government they quickly became a target of hostility from settlers and laws were enacted specifically to discourage them from coming to New Zealand thereafter. The European population of New Zealand grew explosively from fewer than 1000 in 1831 to 500,000 by 1881. By 1911 the number of European settlers had reached a million. This colourful history of unofficial and official settlement of peoples from all over Europe, Australia, South Africa, and Asia and the intermingling of the people with the indigenous Māori brought about what would eventually evolve into a \"New Zealand accent\" and a unique regional English lexicon.\n\nA distinct New Zealand variant of the English language has been recognised since at least 1912, when Frank Arthur Swinnerton described it as a \"carefully modulated murmur\". From the beginning of the haphazard Australian and European settlements and latter official British migrations, a new dialect began to form by adopting Māori words to describe the different flora and fauna of New Zealand, for which English did not have words of its own.\n\nThe New Zealand accent appeared first in towns with mixed populations of immigrants from Australia, England, Ireland, and Scotland. These included the militia towns of the North Island and the gold-mining towns of the South Island. In more homogeneous towns such as those in Otago and Southland, settled mainly by people from Scotland, the New Zealand accent took longer to appear.\n\nSince the latter 20th century New Zealand society has gradually divested itself of its fundamentally British roots and has adopted influences from all over the world, especially in the early 21st century when New Zealand experienced an increase of non-British immigration which has since brought about a more prominent multi-national society. The Internet, television, movies and popular music have all brought international influences into New Zealand society and the New Zealand lexicon. Americanization of New Zealand society and language has subtly and gradually been taking place since World War II and especially since the 1970s, as has happened also in neighbouring Australia.\n\nIn February 2018, Clayton Mitchell MP from New Zealand First led a campaign for English to be recognised as an official language in New Zealand.\n\nNot all New Zealanders have the same accent, as the level of cultivation (i.e. the closeness to Received Pronunciation) of every speaker's accent differs. The phonology in this section is of an educated speaker of New Zealand English, and uses a transcription system designed by specifically to faithfully represent the New Zealand accent. It transcribes some of the vowels differently, whereas the approximant is transcribed with the symbol even in phonemic transcription.\nNew Zealand English has a number of dialectal words and phrases. These are mostly informal terms that are more common in casual speech. Numerous loanwords have been taken from the Māori language or from Australian English.\n\nNew Zealand adopted decimal currency in 1967 and the metric system in 1974. Despite this, several imperial measures are still widely encountered and usually understood, such as feet and inches for a person's height, pounds and ounces for an infant's birth weight, and in colloquial terms such as referring to drinks in pints. In the food manufacturing industry in New Zealand both metric and non-metric systems of weight are used and usually understood owing to raw food products being imported from both metric and non-metric countries. However per the December 1976 Weights and Measures Amendment Act, all foodstuffs must be retailed using the metric system. In general, the knowledge of non-metric units is lessening.\n\nThe word \"spud\" for \"potato\", now common throughout the English-speaking world, originated in New Zealand English.\n\nAs with Australian English, but in contrast to most other forms of the language, some speakers of New Zealand English use both the terms \"bath\" and \"bathe\" as verbs, with \"bath\" used as a transitive verb (e.g. \"I will bath the dog\"), and \"bathe\" used predominantly, but not exclusively, as an intransitive verb (e.g. \"Did you bathe?\").\n\nBoth the words \"amongst\" and \"among\" are used, as in British English. The same is true for two other pairs, \"whilst\" and \"while\" and \"amidst\" and \"amid\".\n\nNZE terms of Australian origin include \"bushed\" (lost or bewildered), \"chunder\" (to vomit), \"dinkum\" (genuine or real), \"drongo\" (a foolish or stupid person), \"fossick\" (to search), \"jumbuck\" (sheep, from Australian pidgin), \"larrikin\" (mischievous person), \"Maccas\" (21st century slang for McDonald's food), \"maimai\" (a duckshooter’s hide; originally a makeshift shelter, from aboriginal \"mia-mia\"), \"paddock\" (field, or meadow), \"pom\" or \"pommy\" (an Englishman), \"skite\" (verb: to boast), \"station\" (for a very large farm), \"wowser\" (non-drinker of alcohol, or killjoy), and \"ute\" (pickup truck).\n\nAdvancing from its British and Australian English origins, New Zealand English has developed to include many Americanisms and American vocabulary in preference over British terms as well as directly borrowed American vocabulary. Some examples of American words used instead of British words in New Zealand English are \"bobby pin\" for British \"hair pin\", \"muffler\" for the British \"silencer\", \"truck\" for the British \"lorry\", \"station wagon\" for the British \"estate car\", \"stove\" over \"cooker\", \"creek\" over \"brook\", \"hope chest\" over \"bottom drawer\", \"eggplant\" instead of \"aubergine\", \"hardware store\" instead of \"ironmonger\", \"median strip\" for \"central reservation\", \"stroller\" for \"pushchair\", \"pushup\" for \"press-up\", \"potato chip\" instead of \"potato crisp\", \"licence plate\" for \"registration plate\", \"cellphone\" or \"cell\" for British and Australian \"mobile phone\" and \"mobile\", and \"ice block\" instead of British \"ice lolly\" (or Australian \"icy pole\").\n\nDirectly borrowed American vocabulary include \"the boonies\", \"bucks\" (dollars), \"bushwhack\" (fell timber), \"butt\" (replacing British/Australian \"arse\" although \"arse\" can still be used), \"ding\" (dent), \"dude\", \"duplex\", \"faggot\" and \"fag\" (interchangeable with the British \"poof\" and \"poofter\"), \"figure\" (to think or conclude; consider), \"hightail it\", \"homeboy\", \"hooker\", \"lagoon\", \"lube\" (oil change), \"man\" (in place of \"mate\" or \"bro\" in direct address), \"major\" (to study or qualify in a subject), \"to be over\" [some situation] (be fed up), \"rig\" (large truck), \"sheltered workshop\" (workplace for disabled persons), \"spat\" (a small argument), \"subdivision\", and \"tavern\".\n\nIn addition to word and phrase borrowings from Australian, British and American English, New Zealand has its own unique words and phrases derived entirely in New Zealand. Not considering slang, some of these New Zealandisms are:\n\nMany of these relate to words used to refer to common items, often based on which major brands become eponyms.\n\nSome New Zealanders often reply to a question with a statement spoken with a rising intonation at the end. This often has the effect of making their statement sound like another question. There is enough awareness of this that it is seen in exaggerated form in comedy parody of New Zealanders, such as in the 1970s comedy character \"Lyn Of Tawa\". This rising intonation can also be heard at the end of statements that are not in response to a question but to which the speaker wishes to add emphasis. High rising terminals are also heard in Australia.\n\nIn informal speech, some New Zealanders use the third person feminine \"she\" in place of the third person neuter \"it\" as the subject of a sentence, especially when the subject is the first word of the sentence. The most common use of this is in the phrase \"She'll be right\" meaning either \"It will be okay\" or \"It is close enough to what is required\". Similar to Australian English are uses such as \"she was great car\" or \"she's a real beauty, this [object]\".\n\nAnother specific New Zealand usage is the way in which New Zealanders refer to the country's two main islands. They are always (except on maps) referred to as \"the North Island\" and \"the South Island\". And because of their size, New Zealanders tend to think of these two islands as being 'places', rather than 'pieces of land', so the preposition \"in\" (rather than \"on\") is usually used – for example, \"my mother lives in the North Island\", \"Christchurch is in the South Island\". This is true only for the two main islands; for smaller islands, the usual preposition \"on\" is used – for example, \"on Stewart Island\" (the third largest), or \"on Waiheke Island\" (the third most populous).\n\nMany local everyday words have been borrowed from the Māori language, including words for local flora, fauna, place names and the natural environment.\n\nThe dominant influence of Māori on New Zealand English is lexical. A 1999 estimate based on the Wellington corpora of written and spoken New Zealand English put the proportion of words of Māori origin at approximately 0.6%, mostly place and personal names.\n\nThe everyday use of Māori words, usually colloquial, occurs most prominently among youth, young adults and Māori populations. Examples include words like \"kia ora\" (\"hello\"), \"nau mai\" (\"welcome\"), or \"kai\" (\"food\") which almost all New Zealanders know.\n\nMāori is ever present and has a significant conceptual influence in the legislature, government, and community agencies (e.g. health and education), where legislation requires that proceedings and documents be translated into Māori (under certain circumstances, and when requested). Political discussion and analysis of issues of sovereignty, environmental management, health, and social well-being thus rely on Māori at least in part. Māori as a spoken language is particularly important wherever community consultation occurs.\n\nRecognisable regional variations are slight, with the exception of Southland and the southern part of neighbouring Otago, where the \"Southland burr\" is heard. This southern area formed a traditional repository of immigration from Scotland (see Dunedin). Several words and phrases common in Scots or Scottish English persist in this area: examples include the use of \"wee\" to mean \"small\", and phrases such as \"to do the messages\" meaning \"to go shopping\". Other Southland features that have been identified and which may also relate to early Scottish settlement are the use of the in a set of words (dance, castle), which is also found in some Australia English regions, and in the maintenance of the /ʍ/ ~ /w/ distinction (e.g. \"which\" and \"witch\" are not homophonous for such speakers). \n\nRecent research (2012) suggests that postvocalic /r/ is not restricted to Southland, but is found also in the central North Island where there may be a Pasifika influence, but also a possible influence from modern New Zealand hip‐hop music, which has been shown to have high levels of non‐prevocalic /r/ after the vowel.\n\nTaranaki has been said to have a minor regional accent, possibly due to the high number of immigrants from the South-West of England. However, this is becoming less pronounced.\n\nSome Māori have an accent distinct from the general New Zealand accent; and also tend to include Māori words more frequently. Comedian Billy T. James and the bro'Town TV programme were notable for featuring exaggerated versions of this. Linguists recognise this as \"Māori English\", and describe it as strongly influenced by syllable-timed Māori speech patterns. Linguists count \"Pākehā English\" as the other main accent, and note that it is beginning to adopt similar rhythms, distinguishing it from other stress-timed English accents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55509387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55509387", "title": "Overseas Countries and Territories Association", "text": "Overseas Countries and Territories Association\n\nOverseas Countries and Territories Association (OCTA; , PTOM) is an international organisation founded on November 17, 2000 during the conference of prime ministers of overseas countries and territories in Brussels, Belgium. It includes almost all special member state territories of European Union whose purpose is to improve economic development in overseas countries and territories and cooperation with the European Union. It currently has 22 members. On 25 June 2008, a Cooperation Treaty between the EU and OCTA was signed in Brussels. Current chairmen is the Premier of Turks and Caicos Islands, Sharlene Cartwright Robinson.\n\nSince 2011, the chairmen are chosen annually and their function is to head the organization and elect an Executive Committee. Previous chairmen are:\n\nThe members of OCTA are:\nThe forum between OCTA, European Union and Member States has been held since 2003 in Brussels (Belgium) and in an OCT alternatively, so far there have been fifteen annual forums here:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33632474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33632474", "title": "Pagibete language", "text": "Pagibete language\n\nPagibete is a Bantu language spoken in the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is similar to Bwa, and might be considered a dialect.\n"}
{"id": "747118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747118", "title": "Philosophy for Children", "text": "Philosophy for Children\n\nPhilosophy for Children, sometimes abbreviated to P4C, is a movement that aims to teach reasoning and argumentative skills to children. There are also related methods sometimes called \"\"Philosophy for Young People\" or \"Philosophy for Kids\"\". Often the hope is that this will be a key influential move towards a more democratic form of democracy. However, there is also a long tradition within higher education of developing alternative methods for teaching philosophy both in schools and colleges (see \"philosophy education\").\n\nAlthough the noted developmental psychologist Jean Piaget was of the impression that children were not capable of critical thinking until age 11 or 12, the experience of many philosophers and teachers with young children gives reason to believe that children benefit from philosophical inquiry even in early primary school. Furthermore, there is empirical evidence that teaching children reasoning skills early in life greatly improves other cognitive and academic skills and greatly assists learning in general.\n\nThe pedagogy of philosophy for children is diverse. However, many practitioners including those working in the tradition of Matthew Lipman and the Institute for the Advancement of Philosophy for Children emphasize the use of a community of inquiry method which has roots in the work of philosopher John Dewey. The term \"inquiry\" is preferred to \"lesson\" because the emphasis is on the group inquiring together into questions with the teacher as a facilitator rather than the authoritative source of information.\n\nOne of the salient differences between proponents of philosophy for children is in their choice of stimuli - starting points for discussions. Matthew Lipman, called \"the most influential figure\" in helping young students develop philosophical thinking by Gareth Matthews, is credited with starting the Philosophy for Children movement in the 1970s. After witnessing political upheaval taking place on University campuses nationwide in the 1960s, Lipman realized that philosophical and critical thinking should be encouraged much earlier in the academic setting. He founded the \"Institute for the Advancement of Philosophy for Children\" at Montclair State University (then Montclair State College) in 1974. Lipman's method involves reading philosophically stimulating narrative to children and encouraging them to come up with philosophical questions in response. The questions set the agenda for a collaborative inquiry where the teacher acts as both facilitator and co-inquirer. The lessons are dialogue based with students usually sitting in a circle and taking turns at suggesting solutions, expressing opinions, putting forth arguments and counter arguments, providing examples, constructing criteria and building on each other's ideas with the aim of coming to a settlement regarding the initial philosophical questions that stimulated the dialogue. Lipman's ideas about learning, pedagogy and curriculum are heavily influenced by the educational and philosophical ideas of the American pragmatist philosopher John Dewey. Many of the materials used by the IAPC are philosophical children's novels that were published by Lipman, including \"Harry Stottlemeier's Discovery\", which he published in 1969. Others have built on Lipman's ideas and developed further teaching resources and learning activities that compliment his original Philosophy for Children novels and pedagogical approach, such as Phil Cam's popular teaching resources Lipman wrote the world's first systematic pre-college philosophy curriculum and created both masters and doctoral programs in the field of Philosophy for Children. He also founded \"Thinking: The Journal of Philosophy for Children\".\n\nGareth Matthews worked with a variety of students, but primarily with students in late primary school (5th grade and thereabouts). Matthews' method was to get the students to actively create philosophical settings, to “make the philosophical problem their own”. One of his best-known techniques was to provide the beginning of a philosophically provocative story. He then recorded/transcribes student comments, put them in the mouths of characters in the story, and brought the story continuation to the next class session for further discussion. Such interactions are compiled in his book \"Dialogues With Children\".\n\nKarin Murris of Witwatersrand University, South Africa and Joanna Haynes of Plymouth University, England, have popularised the use of children's picture books as an alternative to purpose-written materials. Tom Wartenberg of Mount Holyoke, Massachusetts has also written a large number of discussion plans for philosophising with picture books.\n\nJana Mohr Lone has written about children's philosophical thinking and the benefits of encouraging children to engage in philosophical inquiry.\n\nEllen Duthie, together with her team based in Spain, researches and develops the possibilities of Visual Philosophy for Children (and adults), exploring different ways of engaging and stimulating philosophical dialogue through visuals in her Wonder Ponder series of books. \n\nThere is particular diversity in the UK, owing to the large number of competing and collaborating freelance trainers each emphasising different strands of the pedagogy. Roger Sutcliffe's practice includes the use of news stories; Steve Williams has emphasised the importance of dialogues that model argument as well as raising philosophical issues; Will Ord emphasises the use of striking photos, often containing contrasts that suggest opposing concepts.; Jason Buckley advocates a more physical, game-based approach and \"Philosophy in Role\", in which children philosophise within a story as characters confronted with a variety of problems.\n\nSAPERE is the UK's leading provider of P4C training. Registered in 1994, the charity has trained over 27,000 teachers and other individuals in the use of P4C. SAPERE's mission is to advance the educational, personal and social development of young people, especially those facing disadvantage, through the promotion of P4C. The organisation's work gained national prominence in 2015 when Durham University School of Education published results of a randomised control trial of P4C with over 3,000 primary school students. The study was sponsored by the Education Endowment Foundation. The study found that P4C advanced attainment for all students and had a particularly strong impact on children from disadvantaged backgrounds.\n\nCo-founded by Peter Worley and Emma Worley, The Philosophy Foundation's specialist philosophy teachers (all philosophy graduates) specifically use philosophical material, including thought-experiments and stories or activities that lead to questions from the philosophical canon. They make use of carefully structured questioning strategies and also the introduction of thinking skills in order to develop good thinking habits from a young age. The questioning strategies are used to introduce dialectic along Platonic lines and in order to maintain philosophical focus. Uniquely they have a methodology that introduces writing and meta-analysis with older primary and secondary students.\n\nUK based Thinking Space is Grace Robinson, a philosopher and a network of associated philosophers and educators whose work is characterised by playful and experimental collaborations. This work with a range of practitioners, among them artists, scientists, and academics, aims to bring philosophical issues alive for children and young people. Thinking Space's most notable collaboration is with The University of Leeds on 'Leeds Philosophy Exchange'; an accredited undergraduate course in which philosophy students facilitate philosophical enquiry in local primary schools, alongside teachers trained by Thinking Space in P4C.\n\nA particular way of doing philosophy with children is illustrated by the work of Chris Phillips with the Philosophers Club at Cesar Chavez Elementary School in the Mission District, San Francisco, California.\n\nProfessor William Barry of Notre Dame de Namur University is pioneering a new approach to p4c called Philosophy for Children and Community (P4c²) in the San Francisco Bay Area. His contribution to evolving the idea of p4c involves young people becoming novice critical theory action researchers and meaningful members of communities of inquiry focused on human flourishing for every person. Another key component of Barry's P4c² is the importance of children gaining ontological weight from participation in their communities of inquiry by understanding the meaning of quality in praxis in a transformational way through TQ Theory. The Institute of P4c² has recently been developed by Living Leadership Today, LLC Founder Maria Rachelle in Silicon Valley California and resulted in the creation of the online international scholarly journal, the \"International Journal of Transformative Research .\n\nThere are a number of college-level academic philosophy programs in the United States that do outreach to public schools, most notably at the University of Washington, University of Massachusetts - Boston, University of Chicago, California State University Long Beach, Texas A&M University, Mount Holyoke College, Montclair State University, Michigan State University, University of Hawai`i at Manoa, Notre Dame de Namur University, Creighton University, and Plattsburgh State University Of New York.\n\nAt the University of Washington, the Center for Philosophy for Children educates University of Washington graduate and undergraduate students about how to facilitate philosophy sessions, and then sends them into Seattle classrooms with supervision and mentoring from experienced instructors. This program has introduced philosophy to thousands of public school students, and runs many year-long weekly philosophy sessions in Seattle public school classrooms. The Center has four graduate fellowships in pre-college philosophy and also runs regular workshops and programs for teachers, parents and other adults about how to introduce philosophy to young people.\n\nAt the University of Chicago, students in the college teach in schools on Chicago South Side through the University's Civic Knowledge Project. The class, known as Winning Words, is an after school program that works with elementary, middle and high school students in Chicago. The program aims to engage and inspire local youth through an education in philosophy, reasoning and the verbal arts of dialogue and rhetoric; building self-confidence and exposing its students to a wide range of philosophical material. Recognized by the American Philosophical Association, the program provides an introduction to philosophy and Socratic dialogue and includes writing, public speaking, debate, drama, poetry and art. The material uses the Socratic method to engage students and to encourage the use of critical thinking, reasoning and expression. Such modes of thought and communication foster the sense of wonder that is at the root of serious introspection, intellectual growth, and ethical reflection. February 2012, the American Philosophical Association's Committee on Pre-Collegiate Philosophy featured Winning Words and the Civic Knowledge Project in its Central Division meeting.\n\nBefore the Department of Education cut funding for such programs in the early 1990s, there were over 5,000 programs in K-12 schools nationwide which engaged young people in philosophical reflection or critical thinking, more generally. This number has dropped substantially.\n\nThe Institute for the Advancement of Philosophy for Children (IAPC), which has been recognized by the APA for excellence and innovation, utilizes Lipman's method, exposing children to philosophically stimulating narrative to encourage them to create and ask their own philosophical questions, actively in the K-12 classroom through a longstanding partnership with the Montclair public school system. Students are encouraged to ask their questions and the philosophical facilitator (a member of the IAPC) helps the children to develop philosophical skills and dispositions of critical, caring, and creative thinking in order to get the young students to come to reasonable judgment about what is \"best to do or believe,\" in response to the initial question. IAPC has a large teacher preparation component and provides teacher manuals that include discussion plans specifically designed to assist in the facilitation of philosophical discussions that are general enough to answer most student questions. In addition to working directly with schoolchildren, members of the IAPC work with several constituencies, including professional and pre-professional educators, educational administrators and policy-makers, and faculty and students of education, philosophy and related disciplines. IAPC has trained educators worldwide to successfully implement their curriculum in their home states and countries.\nPhilosophy and Children organization offers introductory workshops and Certificate courses in schools and graduate teachers in Australia.\n\nThe Philosophy Learning and Teaching Organization (PLATO) is a national organization in the USA that provides support and resources for bringing philosophy into pre-college classrooms.\n\nThere is an annual \"Philosophy Slam\" competition for kids in grades K-12. Younger children are encouraged to submit artwork which illustrates their philosophical reflections while older children submit increasingly sophisticated written work.\n\nIn the UK the University of Leeds now offers a students into schools programme called Leeds Philosophy Exchange, led by Grace Robinson. The University of Bristol is now working on Bristol Philosophy Exchange applying a similar model in which philosophy students and primary school teachers exchange skills and knowledge in weekly philosophical enquiry with children.\n\nEducational charity The Philosophy Foundation (formerly The Philosophy Shop) trains philosophy graduates to do philosophy with primary and secondary school children, and places them in schools nationwide. They also train teachers in the transferable skills of philosophy (questioning, thinking skills and discourse skills), and are encouraging an enquiry based approach to education at all levels, including tertiary.\n\nSAPERE is a UK charity that trains teachers in P4C nationwide.\n\nThinking Space works with schools to devise creative philosophy projects that combine the expertise of philosophers and teachers.\n\nThe growth of a community between European philosophy with children (PWC) practitioners culminated in the establishment of “Stichting SOPHIA —The European Foundation for the Advancement of Doing Philosophy with Children” in 1993, with Eulalia Bosch (Catalonia) as its President, and Karel van der Leeuw (the Netherlands) Secretary. Following the motto of the European Community (now the EU) – ‘ unity through diversity’, SOPHIA supported the development of doing philosophy with children within all the different European cultures and languages, and nurtured the community among practitioners as the foundation for collaborative work and mutual development. Many groundbreaking and innovative projects have resulted from SOPHIA members working together, often funded by the EU. For example, pwc projects working with art, citizenship, excluded children, architecture, anti-racism, music, community development and more.\n\nIn Australasia an extensive P4C network has developed since the 1980s. Associations have been established in each Australian state and also the Federation of Australasian Philosophy in Schools Associations (FAPSA) has been instrumental in promoting P4C throughout Australasia. FAPSA is a professional non-profit organization promoting philosophy in schools and representing the interests of its affiliated associations across Australia, New Zealand and Singapore. The Federation’s primary purpose is to facilitate the educational aims and objectives of its affiliated associations. FAPSA has an official journal called the \"Journal for Philosophy in Schools\"\n\nIn 2007 a competition was created in Perth Western Australia called a Philosothon. This competition promotes P4C and has been phenomenally successful over its short history. Each Australian state now holds an annual Philosothon and FAPSA hosts the Australasian Philosothon in different states each year. There are over 400 schools involved in Philosothons in Australasia, Europe and the UK.\n\nThere have been several academic journals devoted to publishing work regarding philosophy for/with children.\n\nA number of books have been published on philosophy for children other than those mentioned above by Matthews and Lipman. Some are intended to be read by children, others by children with their parents, and still others by philosophers, educators, and policy-makers considering the merits of K-12 philosophy programs. A partial (by no means exhaustive or representative) list includes the books:\n\n\n\nHaas, H. J. (1976). The Value of Philosophy for Children within the Piagetian Framework. \nMetaphilosophy. 7(1). 70-75 Special Issue on Philosophy for Children.\n\nHaas, H. J. (1976). Philosophical Thinking in the Elementary Schools. Report to the National \nEndowment for the Humanities on \"Philosophy for Children\". Rutgers University. Newark, NJ. ED 172 910.\n\n"}
{"id": "16117071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16117071", "title": "Prostitution in Nigeria", "text": "Prostitution in Nigeria\n\nProstitution in Nigeria is illegal in all Northern States that practice Islamic penal code. In Southern Nigeria, the activities of pimps or madams, underage prostitution and the operation or ownership of brothels are penalized under sections 223, 224, and 225 of the Nigerian Criminal Code. Even though Nigerian law does not legalize commercial sex work, it is vague if such work is performed by an independent individual who operates on his or her own accord without the use of pimps or a brothel. \n\nThe Nigeria criminal system prohibits national and trans-national trafficking of women for commercial sex or forced labour. Nigeria is a signatory to the 2000 United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children.\n\nStarting in the early 1900s, the rising economic importance of Lagos as a seaport and capital city changed the political and economic landscape of the city and contributed to the arrival of Nigerians from the hinterland. The demographic and commercial changes also expanded to commoditization of sex and by 1910, commercial sex services had become prevalent in Lagos. In 1916, the colonial government enacted a law prohibiting solicitation by women but the law did not define prostitution. The law was implemented discretionarily by the government and commercial sex work was tolerated as long it did not lead to public nuisance. In a country steeped with a religious and traditional moralist sentiments, sex work was not tolerated by some women in the community. In 1923, the Lagos Women League, an elite women organization wrote a petition to the police chief seeking the cancellation of restrictions placed on the recruitment of women as police officers. The petition was written partly to curb a rise in prostitution and also the patronage of prostitutes by male officers. Public opinion was also critical of the sex trade linking it with juvenile delinquency. In 1932, Tijani Omoyele, a musician released an album, Asewo/ Omo j aguda (prostitutes are thieves or criminals). By the 1930s, prostitutes were linked with notorious delinquents’ groups like the Jagudas and Boma boys in Lagos and they were beginning to be called Ashewo or people who change money into lower denominations. During the pre-World War II period commercial sex workers solicited clients in brothels, cinemas and hotels bars in the Lagos Island districts of Broad St, Breadfruit, Labinjo, Martins, Porto Novo Market- and Taiwo In Lagos, commercial sex work was majorly practiced by non-Lagos natives and were called names like Ashewo (Yoruba word), Karuwaci (Hausa), Akwunakwuna (Igbo word) and Asape. Many of the workers sometimes returned to their native land with enough money to earn the wrath of men who were not used to women being wealthier than them.\n\nAfter the onset of World War II, British officials became apprehensive about any link between high venereal disease rates in West African Frontier Force soldiers and promiscuous sexual affairs with prostitutes. During this period, forced prostitution of teenagers was becoming common. In 1943 Abidjan, a Nigerian born child prostitute, Mary Eforghere was killed by her older handler or madam for refusing to have sex with a European. The combination of the fear of venereal diseases, child prostitution and controlling juvenile delinquency created a new impetus to prohibit prostitution. In 1941, an anti-vice squad was formed to prosecute offenders based on two newly created laws, the Unlicensed Guide (Prohibition) Ordinance and the Venereal Disease Ordinance. The former was also known informally as the loitering law which was designed to limit the link between foreign sex tourists and prostitutes. The law required tour guards to obtain license guards in order to perform their work. The law targeted both young delinquents who were considered the pimps and the prostitutes. In addition, prostitutes who loiter on the street and make advances towards tourists were arrested by the anti-vice squad. In 1942, a hostel was built to rehabilitate child prostitutes in Lagos and a year later, the Children and Young Persons Ordinance was passed prohibiting child prostitution. The colonial government also established a welfare and social services department to manage the hostel and rehabilitation of child prostitutes. By 1946, a set of law was enacted that clearly defined prostitution and its prohibition.\n\nAfter independence in 1960, brothels and prostitution that had been prohibited in the middle 1940s began to spring up again. The welfare and social services department created to rehabilitate child prostitutes started scaling down on its investigations of child prostitutes. By the early 1980s, street prostitution became a common sight on Allen Avenue, Ikeja and in some areas of Oshodi and later Kuramo Beach. In 1987, the Women's Center in Nigeria wrote a press release about the harassment, assault and rape of prostitute by law enforcement members.\n\nTrans-national commercial sex work which started during British colonial West Africa began to grow into a transcontinental business in the 1980s. Starting in the mid-1980s, the trafficking of Women to European countries such as Italy began to gain traction. In many of the cases, there were examples of coercion. Coercion happened in situations whereby the women or adolescents to be trafficked were asked to swear an oath that was administered by an African religion or juju priest. Some personal items such as bodily fluids were taken by the priests for keeping or used to administer the oath and seal the agreement. When the women reach the country of destination they are immediately indebted to the trafficker for transport and lodging fees and will have to pay off the debt before they are freed, if ever. The United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Nigeria as a 'Tier 2 Watch List' country.\n\nSome scholars have stated that prostitution in Nigeria increased as a result of the adverse economic effect of the drop in oil price in the early 1980s followed by the implementation of structural adjustment programs in the middle 1980s. In the 1980s, brothels began to spring up in the cities and prostitutes who move into the city were charged daily rent for accommodation. The 1980s also contributed to the beginning of call-ups or part-time prostitution by young graduates and students. In Lagos during the early 1980s, politicians accommodated in housing estates such as 1004 requested the services of young students as call girls and spent lavishly on these students with trips abroad. \n\nIn Benin City, the red-light district is around Ugbague Street. This started to be an area of prostitution in the 1940s when young Esan women came to the area. The women are known locally as \"asewo\".\n\nCommercial sex work and human trafficking continues to thrive in Nigeria. Based on the estimates of the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute, about 8,000 – 10,000 women of Nigerian descent practiced prostitution in Italy between 2000–2009. Cross-border commercial work also resorted to re-instating child trafficking for sex. A Nigerian envoy in Côte d'Ivoire noted the frequency of adolescent girls among Nigerian commercial workers in Abidjan. \n\nWithin Nigeria, the most common form of sex work is found within brothels or residences of sex workers. A steady rise in young students and unemployed graduates who use sex to earn income and acting as part-time prostitutes or call girls or sometimes called Aristo girls are changing the strategies used by sex workers. These young graduates and students use the services of pimps and call-ups as a modus of operation, while some frequent bars and restaurants. \n\nIn some cases, porters or hotel staff acts as pimps and links between upper class Nigerians and the call girls. The aristo girls mostly serve upper class citizens and foreigners are better paid than the sex workers in brothels. Almost two thirds of brothel and street sex workers are traders, bar girls, hair dressers or have a second type of job. Brothels are in virtually every major city in Nigeria and offer the cheapest form of service. The brothels are located in highly populated districts and slums within the city. \n\nIn 2003, the Trafficking in Person Prohibition Act was passed into law and an agency, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficked Persons was formed to handle human trafficking in the country. \n\nA different form of prostitution known as corporate prostitution, a relatively new phenomenon and mostly limited to financial institutions began to gain notability in the 2000s. In 2004, a bankers’ union threatened to go on strike due to allegations that some female staffers sleep with men for accounts. Though most financial institutions do not force women to engage in sexual activities in order to meet financial targets it is implied that many banks are not against such actions. In 2010, hearings were held on the floor of the House of Representative about the Bill for an Act to Prohibit Corporate Prostitution and Exploitation of Women and for Other Matters Connected Therewith.\n\nIn a survey of commercial sex workers, almost two thirds or about 63% mentioned that they started commercial sex work before the age of 19. A majority of them (63%) work from brothels. Due to the negative public perception of commercial sex work, 88% of workers operate in cities far from their childhood home. \n\nA majority came from households within the low income bracket. The sex workers are trained by an older professional or pimp prior to commencement on the job. Training lessons concern how to deal with a difficult man, STD's and self-defence. A large number of sex workers had limited information about STD's and a majority mentioned that they did not utilize a clinic for treatment.\n\nUNAIDS estimate there to be 103,506 prostitutes in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "4271166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4271166", "title": "Public Speaking and Influencing Men in Business", "text": "Public Speaking and Influencing Men in Business\n\nPublic Speaking and Influencing Men In Business () is a public speaking book written by Dale Carnegie in 1937 and first published in 1926 as \"Public Speaking: a Practical Course for Business Men\", with several revised editions published later. Dorothy Carnegie produced 2 separate revised editions: \"How to Develop Self-Confidence and Influence People by Public Speaking\" (1956), aimed at the general public, and \"The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking\" (1962), as a replacement textbook for the Dale Carnegie Course. A more recent revised edition is \"Public Speaking for Success\" (2005), revised by Arthur Pell, which restores content that was left out of the Dorothy Carnegie-revised works.\n\n\"Public Speaking: a Practical Course for Business Men\", \"Public Speaking and Influencing Men In Business\", and \"The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking\" served as standard textbooks in the Dale Carnegie Course.\n\nThe main focus of this book is to present a thorough understanding of the principles of public speaking, as well as guidance into conquering the fears attributed to public speaking.\n\n\nAppendices:\n"}
{"id": "5451939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5451939", "title": "Standard Tibetan", "text": "Standard Tibetan\n\nStandard Tibetan is the most widely spoken form of the Tibetic languages. It is based on the speech of Lhasa, an Ü-Tsang (Central Tibetan) dialect. For this reason, Standard Tibetan is often called Lhasa Tibetan. Tibetan is an official language of the Tibet Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China. The written language is based on Classical Tibetan and is highly conservative.\n\nLike many languages, Standard Tibetan has a variety of language registers:\n\nTibetan is an ergative language. Grammatical constituents broadly have head-final word order:\n\nUnlike many other languages of East Asia and especially Chinese, another Sino-Tibetan language, there are no numeral auxiliaries or measure words used in counting in Tibetan although words expressive of a collective or integral are often used after the tens, sometimes after a smaller number.\n\nIn scientific and astrological works, the numerals, as in Vedic Sanskrit, are expressed by symbolical words.\n\nTibetan is written with an Indic script, with a historically conservative orthography that reflects Old Tibetan phonology and helps unify the Tibetan-language area. It is also helpful in reconstructing Proto Sino-Tibetan and Old Chinese.\n\nWylie transliteration is the most common system of romanization used by Western scholars in rendering written Tibetan using the Latin alphabet (such as employed on much of this page). Tibetan pinyin, however, is the official romanization system employed by the government of the People's Republic of China. Certain names may also retain irregular transcriptions, such as \"Chomolungma\" for Mount Everest.\n\nThe following summarizes the sound system of the dialect of Tibetan spoken in Lhasa, the most influential variety of the spoken language.\n\nTournadre and Sangda Dorje describe eight vowels in the standard language:\n\nThree additional vowels are sometimes described as significantly distinct: or , which is normally an allophone of ; , which is normally an allophone of ; and (an unrounded, centralised, mid front vowel), which is normally an allophone of . These sounds normally occur in closed syllables; because Tibetan does not allow geminated consonants, there are cases in which one syllable ends with the same sound as the one following it. The result is that the first is pronounced as an open syllable but retains the vowel typical of a closed syllable. For instance, \"zhabs\" (foot) is pronounced and \"pad\" (borrowing from Sanskrit \"padma\", lotus) is pronounced , but the compound word, \"zhabs pad\" is pronounced . This process can result in minimal pairs involving sounds that are otherwise allophones.\n\nSources vary on whether the phone (resulting from in a closed syllable) and the phone (resulting from through the i-mutation) are distinct or basically identical.\n\nPhonemic vowel length exists in Lhasa Tibet but in a restricted set of circumstances. Assimilation of Classical Tibetan's suffixes, normally \"‘i\" (འི་), at the end of a word produces a long vowel in Lhasa Tibetan; the feature is sometimes omitted in phonetic transcriptions. In normal spoken pronunciation, a lengthening of the vowel is also frequently substituted for the sounds and when they occur at the end of a syllable.\n\nThe vowels , , , , and each have nasalized forms: , , , , and , respectively, which historically results from , , etc. In some unusual cases, the vowels , , and may also be nasalised.\n\nThe Lhasa dialect is usually described as having two tones: high and low. However, in monosyllabic words, each tone can occur with two distinct contours. The high tone can be pronounced with either a flat or a falling contour, and the low tone can be pronounced with either a flat or rising-falling contour, the latter being a tone that rises to a medium level before falling again. It is normally safe to distinguish only between the two tones because there are very few minimal pairs that differ only because of contour. The difference occurs only in certain words ending in the sounds [m] or [ŋ]; for instance, the word \"kham\" (, \"piece\") is pronounced with a high flat tone, whereas the word \"Khams\" (, \"the Kham region\") is pronounced with a high falling tone.\n\nIn polysyllabic words, tone is not important except in the first syllable. This means that from the point of view of phonological typology, Tibetan could more accurately be described as a pitch-accent language than a true tone language, in which all syllables in a word can carry their own tone.\n\nThe unaspirated stops , , , and typically become voiced in the low tone and are pronounced , , , and , respectively. The sounds are regarded as allophones. Similarly, the aspirated stops , , , and are typically lightly aspirated in the low tone. The dialect of the upper social strata in Lhasa does not use voiced stops in the low tone.\n\nThe standard Tibetan verbal system distinguishes four tenses and three evidential moods.\nThe three moods may all occur with all three grammatical persons, though early descriptions associated the personal modal category with European first-person agreement.\n\nStandard Tibetan has a base-10 counting system. The basic units of the counting system of Standard Tibetan is given in the table below in both the Tibetan script and a Romanisation for those unfamiliar with Written Tibetan.\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries several Western linguists arrived in Tibet:\n\nIndian indologist and linguist Rahul Sankrityayan wrote a Tibetan grammar in Hindi. Some of his other works on Tibetan were:\n\n\nIn much of Tibet, primary education is conducted either primarily or entirely in the Tibetan language, and bilingual education is rarely introduced before students reach middle school. However, Chinese is the language of instruction of most Tibetan secondary schools. Students who continue on to tertiary education have the option of studying humanistic disciplines in Tibetan at a number of minority colleges in China. That contrasts with Tibetan schools in Dharamsala, India, where the Ministry of Human Resource Development curriculum requires academic subjects to be taught in English from middle school. Literacy and enrollment rates continue to be the main concern of the Chinese government. Much of the adult population in Tibet remains illiterate, and despite compulsory education policies, many parents in rural areas are unable to send their children to school.\n\nIn February 2008, Norman Baker, a UK MP, released a statement to mark International Mother Language Day claiming, \"The Chinese government are following a deliberate policy of extinguishing all that is Tibetan, including their own language in their own country\" and he asserted a right for Tibetans to express themselves \"in their mother tongue\". However, Tibetologist Elliot Sperling has noted that \"within certain limits the PRC does make efforts to accommodate Tibetan cultural expression\" and \"the cultural activity taking place all over the Tibetan plateau cannot be ignored.\"\n\nSome scholars also question such claims because most Tibetans continue to reside in rural areas where Chinese is rarely spoken, as opposed to Lhasa and other Tibetan cities where Chinese can often be heard. In the \"Texas Journal of International Law\", Barry Sautman stated that \"none of the many recent studies of endangered languages deems Tibetan to be imperiled, and language maintenance among Tibetans contrasts with language loss even in the remote areas of Western states renowned for liberal policies... claims that primary schools in Tibet teach Mandarin are in error. Tibetan was the main language of instruction in 98% of TAR primary schools in 1996; today, Mandarin is introduced in early grades only in urban schools... Because less than four out of ten TAR Tibetans reach secondary school, primary school matters most for their cultural formation.\"\n\nThe most important Tibetan branch of language under threat is, however, the Ladakhi language of the Western Tibetan group, in the Ladakh region of India. In Leh, a slow but gradual process is underway whereby the Tibetan vernacular is being supplanted by English and Hindi, and there are signs of a gradual loss of Tibetan cultural identity in the area. The adjacent Balti language is also in severe danger, and unlike Ladakhi, it has already been replaced by Urdu as the main language of Baltistan, particularly due to settlers speaking Urdu from other areas moving to that area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49783836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49783836", "title": "Swiss people in Italy", "text": "Swiss people in Italy\n\nThe presence of Swisses in Italy is especially on the border, Campione d'Italia and in Milan.\n\nIn 2014 in Italy there are 8,029 regular citizens from Swiss. In 2006 there were 9,753. The three cities with most number of Swisses are: Milan, Rome and Florence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33421376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33421376", "title": "The Briar Club", "text": "The Briar Club\n\nThe Briar Club is a country club in Houston, Texas. It is located in the River Oaks area, at the corner of Westheimer Road and Timmons Lane. It is between The Galleria and Downtown Houston. As of 2004 it has 1,100 members.\n\nAs of 2004 the club annually hosts 20 to 25 weddings. Richard Lareau, the club's chief operating officer and general manager, said that he hoped to have the club perform three times that number.\n\nIn 1997 Skip Hollandsworth of the \"Texas Monthly\" wrote that Briar Club \"had become a haven for many River Oaks residents\".\n\nThe nearby Westheimer Animal Clinic had been established in 1946. Dr. E.P. Stallings had purchased a city block and started a horse practice on the property. Stallings sold land to what would become The Briar Club for $10,000. The club started in 1949. In 2001 the Briar Club acquired ownership of the Westheimer Animal Clinic building.\n\nIn 2004 it was engaging in an expansion that had a cost of millions of dollars and multiple phases. The club anticipated that its master plan would take ten to fifteen years to complete. Phase one, with a scheduled completion date in late December 2004, had a price tag of $4.8 million. The expansion included a sports pavilion, a parking lot for 80 cars, and a new spa and fitness center. Due to the club needing space for its expansion, the Westheimer Animal Clinic was scheduled to move from an adjacent lot of Westheimer Road to a new location in the City of Bellaire in 2004. The club planned to move its catering and laundry operations into the former veterinarian building. The Briar Club would be able to reconfigure its kitchen so it could host larger banquets and weddings. In January 2004 the club demolished two buildings at Westheimer Road at Saint Street so a covered athletic court and a parking lot could be built. As of July 2004 the annex building had been demolished so a fitness center could be built in its place. As of 2004 the fitness center had of space. The club planned to expand it to of space. The club intended to install wooden lockers, massage facilities, a steam room, and a whirlpool.\n\nThe next phases were scheduled to include a clubhouse, a parking garage, an expansion of a swimming pool, and the facility's eighth tennis court. The club planned for phase two to begin around 2009. The parking garage, a part of phase two, would be built on the site of a 198-space surface parking lot. Phase three includes the demolition of the current club house and replacing it with a new one. Phase four includes the installation of a tennis court and the expansion of a pool.\n\nIn 2010 Champion Energy received a two year contract to supply electricity service to the club.\n\nThe club is situated on a plot of land. It is bounded by Westheimer Road, Timmons Street, Saint Street, and a multifamily housing development. As of 2004 The Briar Club is using of the land.\n\n"}
{"id": "3108709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3108709", "title": "Toft village", "text": "Toft village\n\nIn England and Scotland, a toft village is a settlement comprising small and relatively closely packed farms (tofts) with the surrounding land owned and farmed by those who live in the village's buildings. Late Old English \"toft\", with Old English declension (plural) \"toftas\" > tofts. \"Toft\" as a placename element is usually dated to the Viking Age by place-name historians.\n\nPlacenames ending in \"-toft\" are usually of Old Norse derivation, \"topt\" meaning \"site of a house\". Examples are Langtoft, Habertoft, Huttoft, Knaptoft, Lowestoft, Newtoft, Scraptoft, Sibbertoft, Stowlangtoft, Wibtoft, Yelvertoft and various places simply called Toft in the former Danelaw. This typical Old Norse element allows estimation of the extension of Scandinavian settlements in the Middle Ages such as in Schleswig-Holstein (\"-toft\" : Langstoft, Havetoft, , Goltoft, Kaltoft...), Normandy (\"-tot\" : Lanquetot, Colletot, Caltot, Hottot, Hotot...), etc.\n"}
{"id": "43746072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43746072", "title": "Tēlpochcalli", "text": "Tēlpochcalli\n\nTēlpochcalli (Nahuatl: \"house of the young men\"), were centers where Aztec youth were educated, from age 15, to serve their community and for war. These youth schools were located in each district or \"calpulli\".\n\nLife in the \"telpochcalli\" was hard. From early morning strenuous activities began. The day began with a cold bath, followed by a controlled and extremely frugal meal. They had to memorize the songs which they offered as praises of their gods, and practiced in the use of weapons such as the sling, and the \"macuahuitl\". Students had other obligations, such as carrying the necessary materials to repair the temples (\"teocalli\"), and collectively working the fields for their livelihood. Resistance to pain was sought through practices of self-sacrifice. Idle or disrespectful students were punished severely. For example, drunkenness was penalized by death. Students who excelled in skill and courage in the wars of conquest could someday become distinguished citizens and be rewarded high honors. When they reached the required age for marriage, their instruction at the \"telpochcalli\" was officially over.\n\nThe Aztec world was characterized by the care the rulers put into the education system. Tenochtitlan schools were of two types, generally depending on the boys' social background: the sons of nobles attended the \"calmecac\", an institution that was located within the ceremonial precinct, while the commoners known generically as \"macehualtin\", and a few noble boys, attended the school for youths at the \"telpochcalli\". which were located in each neighborhood (\"calpulli\").\n\nEach family in Tenochtitlan regarded their children as a gift from the gods; children would continue the lineage, collaborate in the activities of the family and learn to respect their elders and venerate The Gods. Someday the family would celebrate their marriage, thus forming a new pillar in the social organization of the calpulli.\n\nIt was very important that within the family that children learn in the generation of the universe, carried out by the supreme gods, the male and female energies had been joined to enforce the creation of life. Women therefore educated their daughters, while men instructed their sons; that way through the process of informal education which had been imparted in the family, children learned the appropriate behaviors and different etiquettes for each sex.\n\nFrom the age of three or four years, infants were to perform simple tasks with great restraint and obedience; as the years passed the work became more complex and with heavier tasks; that is how sons learned the crafts of their fathers, while girls learned the duties of their mothers, like cleaning the house, preparing food, spinning clothing for the family, etc.\n\nInitially, children who rebelled were threatened with spanking, which became effective when they showed further disobedience; later, if young boys displayed negative attitudes, parents applied painful punctures with maguey thorns, or they would semi-asphyxyate them with the smoke from burning chillies (preparing them incidentally, for future practices of self-sacrifice). On the other hand, young ladies who showed negative attitudes, such as flirting and taste for gossip, were forced to sweep at night out of the house, which was seen as worse than a beating.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2683466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683466", "title": "Waka music", "text": "Waka music\n\nWaka music is a popular Islamic-oriented Yoruba musical genre. It was made popular by Alhaja Batile Alake from Ijebu, who took the genre into the mainstream Nigerian music by playing it at concerts and parties; also, she was the first waka singer to record an album. Later, younger singers like Salawa Abeni and Kuburatu Alaragbo joined the pack. In 1992, Salawa Abeni was crowned \"Queen of Waka\" by the Alafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi.\n\nWaka music has no connection whatsoever with the official song of the 2010 FIFA World Cup called Waka Waka (This Time for Africa) which is a traditional African soldiers' song from Cameroon\n"}
{"id": "274322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274322", "title": "World Summit on the Information Society", "text": "World Summit on the Information Society\n\nThe World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) was a two-phase United Nations-sponsored summit on information, communication and, in broad terms, the information society that took place in 2003 in Geneva and in 2005 in Tunis. One of its chief aims was to bridge the global digital divide separating rich countries from poor countries by spreading access to the Internet in the developing world. The conferences established 17 May as World Information Society Day.\n\nThe WSIS+10 Process marked the ten-year milestone since the 2005 Summit. In 2015, the stocktaking process culminated with a High-Level meeting of the UN General Assembly on 15–16 December in New York.\n\nIn the last decades of the 20th century the new Information and Communication Technology (ICT) was implemented, especially in the developed countries. Using ICT changed the modern society in many ways which is known as digital revolution, and therefore new opportunities and threats had been raised. The world's leaders were hopeful to solve many problems using ICT. At the same time they were concerned with digital divide at an international level as well as at a national one which could lead to shaping new classes of those who have access to ICT and those who have not.\nIn such circumstance, recognizing that these challenges and opportunities require global discussion on the highest level, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), following a proposal by the government of Tunisia during ITU Plenipotentiary Conference in Minneapolis in 1998, approved Resolution 73 to hold a World Summit on the Information Society and put forward it to the United Nations.\nIn 2001, the ITU Council decided to hold the Summit in two phases, the first from 10 to 12 December 2003, in Geneva, and the second from 16 to 18 November 2005 in Tunis.\n\nOn 21 December 2001, the United Nations General Assembly by approving Resolution 56/183 endorsed the holding of the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) to discuss on information society opportunities and challenges. According to this resolution, the General Assembly related the Summit to the United Nations Millennium Declaration to implement ICT to facilitate achieving Millennium Development Goals. It also emphasized on the multi-stakeholder approach to use all stakeholders including civil society and private sector beside the governments. The resolution gave ITU the leading managerial role to organize the event in cooperation with other UN bodies as well as the other international organizations and the host countries and recommended that preparations for the Summit take place through an open-ended intergovernmental Preparatory Committee – or PrepCom – that would define the agenda of the Summit, decide on the modalities of the participation of other stakeholders, and finalize both the draft Declaration of Principles and the draft Plan of Action.\n\nIn 2003 at Geneva, delegates from 175 countries took part in the first phase of WSIS where they adopted a Declaration of Principles. This is a road map for achieving an information society accessible to all and based on shared knowledge. A Plan of Action sets out a goal of bringing 50 percent of the world's population online by 2015. It does not spell out any specifics of how this might be achieved. The Geneva summit also left unresolved more controversial issues, including the question of Internet governance and funding.\n\nWhen the 2003 summit failed to agree on the future of Internet governance, the Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG) was formed to come up with ideas on how to progress.\n\nCivil Society delegates from NGOs produced a document called \"Shaping Information Societies for Human Needs\" that brought together a wide range of issues under a human rights and communication rights umbrella.\n\nAccording to the Geneva Plan of Action the WSIS Action Lines are as follows:\n\nThe second phase took place from November 16 through 18, 2005, in Tunis, Tunisia. It resulted in agreement on the Tunis Commitment and the Tunis Agenda for the Information Society, and the creation of the Internet Governance Forum.\n\nJust on the eve of the November 2005 Tunis event, the Association for Progressive Communications came out with its stand. (APC is an international network of civil society organizations—whose goal is to empower and support groups and individuals working for peace, human rights, development and protection of the environment, through the strategic use of information and communication technologies (ICTs), including the internet). \n\nAPC said it had participated extensively in the internet governance process at the World Summit on Information Society. It says: Out of this participation and in collaboration with other partners, including members of the WSIS civil society internet governance caucus, APC has crystallized a set of recommendations with regard to internet governance ahead of the final Summit in Tunis in November 2005.\nAPC proposed specific actions in each of the following five areas:\n\nThe summit itself attracted 1,500 people from International Organizations, 6,200 from NGOs, 4,800 from the private sector, and 980 from the media.\n\nFunding for the event was provided by several countries. The largest donations to the 2003 event came from Japan and Spain. The 2005 event received funding from Japan, Sweden, France and many other countries as well as companies like Nokia.\n\nA dispute over control of the Internet threatened to derail the conference. However, a last-minute decision to leave control in the hands of the United States-based ICANN for the time being avoided a major blow-up. As a compromise there was also an agreement to set up an international Internet Governance Forum and Enhanced Cooperation, with a purely consultative role.\n\nThe summit itself was marred by criticism of Tunisia for allowing attacks on journalists and human rights defenders to occur in the days leading up to the event. The Tunisian government tried to prevent one of the scheduled sessions, \"Expression Under Repression\", from happening. French reporter Robert Ménard, the president of Reporters sans frontières, (Reporters Without Borders) was refused admission to Tunisia for phase two of the Summit. A French journalist for \"Libération\" was stabbed and beaten by unidentified men after he reported on local human rights protesters. The representatives of the Human Rights in China NGO (due to Chinese government pressure on Tunisia) were refused entry to Tunisia. A Belgian television crew was harassed and forced to hand over footage of Tunisian dissidents. Local human rights defenders were roughed up and prevented from organizing a meeting with international civil society groups.\n\nThe WSIS Stocktaking Process is a follow-up to WSIS. Its purpose is to provide a register of activities carried out by governments, international organizations, the business sector, civil society and other entities, in order to highlight the progress made since the landmark event. Following § 120 of TAIS, ITU has been maintaining the WSIS Stocktaking database as a publicly accessible system providing information on ICT-related initiatives and projects with reference to the 11 WSIS Action Lines.\n\nECOSOC Resolution 2010/2 on \"Assessment of the progress made in the implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the World Summit on the Information Society\" reiterated the importance of maintaining a process for coordinating the multi-stakeholder implementation of WSIS outcomes through effective tools, with the goal of exchanging of information among WSIS Action Line Facilitators; identification of issues that need improvements; and discussion of the modalities of reporting the overall implementation process. The resolution encourages all WSIS stakeholders to continue to contribute information to the WSIS Stocktaking database (www.wsis.org/stocktaking).\n\nFurthermore, regular reporting on WSIS Stocktaking is the outcome of the Tunis phase of the Summit, which was launched in order to serve as a tool for assisting with the WSIS follow-up. The purpose of the regular reports is to update stakeholders on the various activities related to the 11 Action Lines identified in the Geneva Plan of Action, that was approved during First Phase of the WSIS.\n\nThe WSIS stocktaking platform is the new initiative that was launched by Mr Zhao, ITU Deputy Secretary-General and chair of ITU's WSIS Task Force, in February 2010 to improve existing functionalities and transform the former static database into a portal to highlight ICT-related projects and initiatives in line with WSIS implementation. The platform offers stakeholders interactive networking opportunities via Web 2.0 applications. In the framework of the WSIS Stocktaking Platform, all types of stakeholders can benefit from the \"Global Events Calendar\", \"Global Publication Repository\", \"Case Studies\" and other components that tend to extend networking and create partnerships in order to provide more visibility and add value to projects at the local, national, regional and international levels.\n\nSince the first edition of the \"WSIS Stocktaking Report\" was issued in 2005, biannual reporting has been a key tool for monitoring the progress of ICT initiatives and projects worldwide. The 2012 report reflects more than 1,000 recent WSIS-related activities, undertaken between May 2010 and 2012, each emphasizing the efforts deployed by stakeholders involved in the WSIS process.\n\nThe WSIS Follow-up works towards achieving the indicative targets, set out in the Geneva Plan of Action and serve as global references for improving connectivity and universal, ubiquitous, equitable, non-discriminatory and affordable access to, and use of, ICTs, considering different national circumstances, to be achieved by 2015, and to using ICTs, as a tool to achieve the internationally agreed development goals and objectives, including the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nSince 2006 the WSIS Forum has been held in Geneva around World Information Society Day (17 May) to implement the WSIS Follow up. The event is organized by the WSIS facilitators including ITU, UNESCO, UNCTAD and UNDP and hosted by ITU. Until 2010 the Forum was held in ITU building and since then it has been held in International Labour Organization building. \nEvery year the Forum attracts more than 1000 WSIS Stakeholders from more than 140 countries. Several high-level representatives of the wider WSIS Stakeholder community graced the Forum, more than 20 Ministers and Deputies, several Ambassadors, CEOs and Civil Society leaders contributed passionately towards the programme of the Forum. Remote participation was an integral component of the WSIS Forum over 1000 stakeholders followed and contributed to the outcomes of the event in a remote manner from all parts of world. Onsite networking was facilitated by the imeetYouatWSIS online community platform. More than 250 on-site participants have actively used the tool prior and during the event which facilitated in fruitful networking leading to win-win partnerships.\n\nWSIS Forum meetings were held in Geneva as follows:\n\nThis initiative responds to the requests of participants of WSIS Forum 2011 for a mechanism to evaluate and reward stakeholders for the success of their efforts in implementing development-oriented strategies that leverage the power of information and communication technologies (ICTs). The first WSIS Project Prizes were awarded in 2012 and have been awarded each year thereafter.\n\nThe prizes provide a unique recognition for excellence in the implementation of WSIS outcomes. The contest is open to all stakeholders: governments, private sector, civil society, international organizations, academia, and others. The 18 prize categories are linked to the WSIS Action Lines outlined in the Geneva Plan of Action. The annual contest is organized into four phases: (1) Submission of project descriptions; (2) Voting by the members of the WSIS Stocktaking Platform; (3) Compilation of extended descriptions of the winning projects and preparation of \"WSIS Stocktaking: Success Stories\"; and (4) the WSIS Project Prize Ceremony and release of the \"Success Stories\" publication at the WSIS Forum. The WSIS Project Prizes are now an integral part of the WSIS Stocktaking Process established in 2004.\n\nThe WSIS+10 High-Level Event, an extended version of the WSIS Forum, took place 9–13 June 2014 in Geneva, Switzerland. The event reviewed the progress made in the implementation of the WSIS outcomes under the mandates of participating agencies, took stock of developments in the last 10 years based on reports of WSIS stakeholders, including those submitted by countries, action line facilitators, and other stakeholders. The event reviewed the WSIS Outcomes (2003 and 2005) related to the WSIS Action Lines and agreed a vision on how to proceed beyond 2015.\n\nThe WSIS+10 High-Level Event endorsed the \"WSIS+10 Statement on Implementation of WSIS Outcomes\" and the \"WSIS+10 Vision for WSIS Beyond 2015\". These outcome documents were developed in an open and inclusive preparatory process, the WSIS+10 Multistakeholder Preparatory Platform (WSIS+10 MPP). \"High-Level Track Policy Statements\" and a \"Forum Track Outcome Document\" are also available.\n\nThe WSIS+10 open consultation process was an open and inclusive consultation among WSIS stakeholders to prepare for the WSIS + 10 High-Level Event. It focused on developing multistakeholder consensus on two draft outcome documents. Eight open consultation meetings among stakeholders, including governments, private sector, civil society, international organizations, and relevant regional organizations, were held between July 2013 and June 2014. Two draft outcome documents were developed and submitted for consideration at the WSIS+10 High-Level Event:\n\nThe final WSIS+10 High-Level Meeting of the General Assembly took place on 15–16 December 2015 in New York, and concluded with the adoption of the Outcome Document of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the overall review of the implementation of the outcomes of the World Summit on the Information Society was adopted.\n\nA number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), scientific institutions, community media and others participated as \"civil society\" in the preparations for the summit as well as the High Level Event itself, drawing attention to human rights, people-centered development, freedom of speech and press freedom.\n\nYouth and civil society representatives played key roles in the whole WSIS process. Young leaders from different countries, notably Nick and Alex Fielding from Canada, Tarek from Tunisia, and Mr. Zeeshan Shoki from Pakistan were the active and founding members of the Global WSIS Youth Caucus having founded youth caucuses in their home countries: Canada WSIS Youth Caucus, Tunisia WSIS Youth Caucus, and Pakistan WSIS Youth Caucus. Young leaders participated in both the Geneva and Tunis phases. Youth Day was celebrated and youth showcased their projects and organised events at the summit. Youth also participated in the preparation of the WSIS Declaration and Plan of Action.\n\nThere was lots of WSIS-related discussion outside the official conferences. Workshops on the themes of the summit were held e.g. at the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, and plans are shaping up for alternative events outside and parallel to the official WSIS summit.\n\nIn Germany, a WSIS working group initiated by the Network New Media and the Heinrich Böll Foundation, has been meeting continuously since mid-2002. This group has gradually developed into a broader Germany-wide civil society coordination for the WSIS.\n\nOne of the most significant results of civil society participation in the WSIS first phase was the insertion, in the final declaration signed by the nation's delegates, of the clear distinction between three societal model of digitally-driven increasement of awareness : proprietary, open-source and free software based models. It is the result of the work led by Francis Muguet as co-chair of Patent, Copyrights and Trademark working group.\n\nSome civil society groups expressed alarm that the 2005 phase of the WSIS was being held in Tunisia, a country with serious human rights violations. A fact-finding mission to Tunisia in January 2005 by the Tunisia Monitoring Group (TMG), a coalition of 14 members of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange, found serious cause for concern about the current state of freedom of expression and of civil liberties in the country, including gross restrictions on freedom of the press, media, publishing and the Internet.\n\nThe coalition published a 60-page report that recommends steps the Tunisian government needs to take to bring the country in line with international human rights standards. At the third WSIS Preparatory Committee meeting in Geneva in September 2005, the TMG launched an update to the report that found no improvements in the human rights situation.\n\nThe Digital Solidarity Fund, an independent body aiming to reduce the digital divide, was established following discussions which took place during the Tunis summit in 2005.\n\nTwo main concerns seemed to be the issue and talk of the UN World Summit on the Information Society held in Tunis, (i) the digital divide and (ii) the digital dilemma.\n\nFirst the digital divide, which was addressed in Archbishop John P. Foley's address before the WSIS and in the Vatican document, \"Ethics in the Internet\". According to Archbishop Foley the digital divide is the current disparity in the access to digital communications between developed and developing countries and it requires the joint effort of the entire international community. The digital divide is considered a form of discrimination dividing the rich and the poor, both within and among nations, on the basis of access, or lack of access, to the new information technology. It is an updated version of an older gap that has always existed between the information rich and the information poor. The term digital divide underlines the reality that not only individuals and groups but also nations must have access to the new technology in order to share in the promised benefits of globalization and not fall behind other nations.\n\nIn a statement delivered by Senator Burchell Whiteman from Jamaica he stressed that Jamaica realizes the importance of bridging the digital divide which he sees as promoting social and economic development for 80% of the countries that are still struggling with this gap and the impact that it has on them. In a statement given by Mr. Ignacio Gonzalez Planas, who is the minister of Informatics and Communications of the Republic of Cuba, he also talked about the concern of only a few countries enjoying these privileges. Mentioning that over half of the world population does not have telephone access, which was invented more than a century ago. A statement by Vice Premier Huang Ju, the State Council of the People's Republic of China, said that the information society should be a people centered society in which all peoples and all countries share the benefit to the fullest in greater common development in the information society.\n\nSecond the digital dilemma, which the Holy See emphasized as a disadvantage to the information society and urged caution to avoid taking the wrong steps. It is a real and present danger with technology especially the Internet. The Holy See strongly supports freedom of expression and the free exchange of ideas, but argues that the moral order and common good must be respected. One must approach it with sensitivity and respect for other people's values and beliefs and protect the distinctiveness of cultures and the underlying unity of the human family.\n\nWhiteman from Jamaica agreed on the issue of facing digital dilemmas as well. He stated that information resources combined with technology resources are available to the world and they have the power to transform the world for good or ill. In a statement made by Mr. Stjepan Mesic, President of Croatia, it was stated that we are flooded with data and we think that we know and can find everything about everyone but we also must remember that we don't know what so easily accessible is like. He states that although the information society is a blessing one should not ignore the potentiality of it turning into a nightmare.\n\nThe Holy See's caution of the information society is being heard and echoed by other countries especially those that were present at the WSIS in Tunis. Echoing the statement made in \"Ethics in the Internet\", \"The internet can make an enormously valuable contribution to human life. It can foster prosperity and peace, intellectual and aesthetic growth, mutual understanding among peoples and nations on a global scale.\"\n\nIn a press statement released 14 November 2003 the Civil Society group warned about a deadlock, already setting in on the very first article of the declaration, where governments are not able to agree on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as the common foundation of the summit declaration. It identified two main problems:\n\nThe \"digital divide\" concept was criticized by some civil society groups as well. For instance, the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII) rejected the term.\n\nThe Summit's first phase took place in December 2003 in Geneva. The summit process began with the first \"Prepcom\" in July 2002. The last Prepcom, held from 19–30 September 2005 in Geneva, ended without securing final agreement on Internet governance, with the U.S. rejecting a European Union proposal to relinquish control of ICANN.\n\nAn issue that emerged was Internet governance and the dominant role that the USA plays in policy making. The most radical ideas about devolving this authority were those supporting a civil society approach to Internet governance.\n\nIn a document released on 3 December 2003 the United States delegation to the WSIS advocated a strong private sector and rule of law as the critical foundations for development of national information and communication technologies (ICT). Ambassador David Gross, the US coordinator for international communications and information policy, outlined what he called \"the three pillars\" of the US position in a briefing to reporters 3 December.\n\n\nAs the Geneva phase of the meeting drew closer, one proposal that was gaining attention was to create an international fund to provide increased financial resources to help lesser-developed nations expand their ICT sectors. The \"voluntary digital solidarity fund\" was a proposal put forth by the president of Senegal, but it was not one that the United States could currently endorse, Gross said.\n\nGross said the United States was also achieving broad consensus on the principle that a \"culture of cybersecurity\" must develop in national ICT policies to continue growth and expansion in this area. He said the last few years had been marked by considerable progress as nations update their laws to address the galloping criminal threats in cyberspace. \"There's capacity-building for countries to be able to criminalize those activities that occur within their borders...and similarly to work internationally to communicate between administrations of law enforcement to track down people who are acting in ways that are unlawful,\" Gross said.\n\nMany governments are very concerned that various groups use U.S.-based servers to spread anti-semitic, nationalist, or regime critical messages. This controversy is a consequence of the American position on free speech which does not consider speech as criminal without direct appeals to violence. The United States argues that giving the control of Internet domain names to international bureaucrats and governments may lead to massive censorship that could destroy the freedom of the Internet as a public space.\n\nUltimately, the US Department of Commerce made it clear it intends to retain control of the Internet's root servers indefinitely.\n\nThe main UN level body in this field is the Internet Governance Forum, which was established in 2006.\n\nA report by Brenda Zulu for \"The Times of Zambia\" explained that the (Dakar) resolution \"generated a lot of discussion since it was very different from the Accra resolution, which advocated change from the status quo where Zambia participated in the Africa WSIS in Accra. The Dakar resolutions, in the main, advocated the status quo although it did not refer to internationalization of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).\"\n\n\"The Jamaica Observer\" had a column which saw Cyberspace as backyard for the new 'Monroe Doctrine'. The Monroe Doctrine, expressed in 1823, proclaimed that the Americas should be closed to future European colonization and free from European interference in sovereign countries' affairs. The Doctrine was conceived by its authors, especially John Quincy Adams, as a proclamation by the United States of moral opposition to colonialism, but has subsequently been re-interpreted in a wide variety of ways, including by President Theodore Roosevelt as a license for the U.S. to practice its own form of colonialism.\n\nFrom India, The Financial Express interviewed Nitin Desai, who is special advisor to the United Nations Secretary General. Desai is quoted saying, \"Our main goal is to find ways for developing countries to gain better access to the Internet and information and communication technologies (ICTs), helping them improve their life standards right from their knowledge base to their work culture, and spread awareness about diseases and other crucial issues. This will aim to bridge the huge communication technology and infrastructure gap existing currently in the world. This will include connecting villages, community access points, schools and universities, research centers, libraries, health centers and hospitals, and local and central government departments. Besides looking at the first two years of implementation of the Plan of Action after the Geneva summit, the Tunis episode will seek to encourage the development of content meant to empower the nations.\"\n\nHe says: \"The way India has made use of IT, fetching the country not only profits, but a huge percentage of employed people, it has been really impressive.\" My view: it's a shame that we in India have so many IT professionals, but these skills get used so much for the export-dollar, and hardly at all (except in a spillover manner) to tackle the huge issues that a billion seeking a better life have to daily deal with.\n\nThe South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), had a Reuters report titled 'Rights groups says Tunisia is not right for WSIS', citing the position of the IFEX Tunisia Monitoring Group. It said: \n\n\n"}
