{"id": "2849648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2849648", "title": "ACM Fellow", "text": "ACM Fellow\n\nACM Fellowship is an award and fellowship that recognises outstanding members of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). The title of ACM Fellow indicates excellence, as evidenced by technical, professional and leadership contributions that:\n\n\nAt most 1% of the ACM membership may be elected as Fellows. \n\nNew fellows are elected annually since 1993. examples of ACM Fellows include Vint Cerf, Anne Condon and Serge Abiteboul. See also the List of Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery and for more examples. Some fellows use the post-nominal letters FACM.\n\n"}
{"id": "40711956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40711956", "title": "Ada Developers Academy", "text": "Ada Developers Academy\n\nAda Developers Academy (Ada) is a year-long intensive school in software development for women and people of non-binary gender with no previous professional experience in computer programming. The program is tuition-free, and students can apply for a low-interest microloan to meet living expenses during the year.\n\nThe program is divided into 6 months of classroom instruction and a 5-month paid internship with a Seattle tech company. The first six months in the classroom focuses on Ruby, Ruby on Rails, JavaScript (including AngularJS), HTML and CSS, and computer science fundamentals. The last five months is an internship placement. Interns are placed at sponsor companies including Amazon, Chef, Concur, EMC² Isilon Storage Division, EnergySavvy, Expedia, Getty Images, Marchex, Microsoft, Moz, Nordstrom, Redfin, Tune, Substantial, Zillow, and more.\n\nIn its first cohort, 2013-2014, Ada Developers Academy took on 16 students. All of the first cohort obtained full-time job offers in software development before the course ended, and two of them received job offers from Amazon.com. Salaries for the job offers the students received averaged $75,000.\nAda began as a project of Seattle's Technology Alliance and is funded through company sponsorship, individual donors, and public sources. Ada now operates as a nonprofit through its financial sponsor, Third Sector New England. Ada's company sponsors include Amazon.com, Expedia, Zillow, and Chef. Sponsors provide input into the course's curriculum, and mentoring and internships for the students. Sponsoring companies such as Expedia stated that they participate in the program in order to recruit great talent, and also in order to improve their diversity.\n"}
{"id": "32596041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32596041", "title": "Alan M. Olson", "text": "Alan M. Olson\n\nAlan M. Olson is a Professor of the Philosophy of Religion, Emeritus, at Boston University]]. He received his degrees from Saint Olaf College (BA, History and Philosophy), Luther Theological Seminary (MDiv, Theology), Nashotah House, where he studied with Arthur Anton Vogel, and Boston University (PhD) where he studied with Peter A. Bertocci, Erazim Kohak, Harold H. Oliver and John N. Findlay. He served as Chairman of the Religion Department at Boston University, 1980–1987, and Chairman of the Philosophy Department, ad interim, 1987-1989. During the 1970s he was Program Coordinator of the Boston University Institute for Philosophy and Religion; and was Executive Director of the Twentieth World Congress of Philosophy in Boston, 1998. He was a Senior Fulbright Research Fellow at Karls-Eberhart Universität, Tübingen, Germany, in 1986, where he studied with Klaus Hartmann; and a Senior Fulbright Research Fellow and Visiting Fellow at the Institut für die Wissenschaften vom Menschen, Vienna, Austria, in 1995, where he worked with Krzysztof Michalski. He served on the Board of Officers of the American Philosophical Association, 2000–2003; and is past president of the Karl Jaspers Society of North America. He delivered the Jaspers Lectures at Oxford in 1989; and was co-editor, with Helmut Wautischer, of the philosophical journal, Existenz from 2006 to 2015. He lives on Cape Cod with his wife, Janet L. Olson, Professor Emerita, College of Fine Arts, Boston University. They have two daughters, Maren Kirsten, Sonja Astrid, and one grandson, Søren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32486836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32486836", "title": "Alma Mater Europaea – Evropski center, Maribor", "text": "Alma Mater Europaea – Evropski center, Maribor\n\nAlma Mater Europaea – European Center Maribor is an accredited non-profit research and higher education institution and part of an international university Alma Mater Europaea of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts, which unites over 1500 leading scholars, 31 of which are Nobel Prize laureates. Alma Mater Europaea ECM offers doctoral, masters, and bachelor degree studies in humanities, social gerontology, ecology, business, European studies, project management as well as social studies including healthcare, nursing, physical therapy, and social gerontology. Institutum Studiorum Humanitatis, the oldest Slovenian private higher education institution, joined Alma Mater in 2014. Since 2015, a Dance Academy, the only Slovenian accredited institution offering diplomas ballet and dance studies, is part of the Alma Mater.\n\nAmong the leading scholars, who teach or have given guest lectures at Alma Mater, are political scientist Werner Weidenfeld, who is also the rector of Alma Mater, cardiac surgeon Felix Unger, who is also the president of Alma Mater, Constitutional Court judge Klemen Jaklic, who had lectured at Harvard Law School for seven years before joining Alma Mater, and philosophers Alain Badiou, Jean-Luc Nancy, and Srećko Horvat.\n\nIn 2007 European Academy of Sciences and Arts Salzburg (EASA) established Alma Mater Europaea as an academic institution that provides an organizational frame and contents for cultural and professional renewal of the Danube region. AMEU - ECM is part of Alma Mater Europaea as an academic and research institution, a network of over 250 academic teachers and over 40 academic institutions from 12 countries in the Danube region, also connecting 1400 excellent researchers, several Nobel prize recipients.\n\nIn 2011, EASA gave an institutional patronage to the European Centre Maribor, including it into the newly established university network Alma Mater Europaea, established particularly for the Danube region. A new project was placed in hands of AMEU - ECM under this patronage; namely organization of the Regional Interactive Educational Network (RIEN).\n\nIn 2011 students started studying management and social gerontology. Alma Mater Europaea started offering environmental studies and European studies in 2012 and archival science in 2013.\n\nIn March 2013 the first group of 50 students graduated. The president of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts prof. ddr. Felix Unger gave the opening speech.\n\nAlma Mater Europaea operates in several different cities in Slovenia. The main office and academic facilities are located in Maribor. The academic programmes also take place in Ljubljana and Murska Sobota.\nSome of the academic programmes mostly enroll students from Croatia, Bosnia and Serbia. The lectures, seminars and exams take place in Zagreb, Croatia.\nAMEU also has its affiliates in Salzburg, Austria.\n\nAlma Mater Europaea has its headquarters in Slovenska Ulica 17, Maribor, Slovenia. Prior to July 2015 the headquarters were on Gosposka Ulica 1. The headquarters consist of several floors containing administration offices and several classrooms with capacities ranging from 20 to 150 students. The building is equipped with state of the art electronic equipment such as laptops, projectors, tablet computers, medical equipment for health care and physiotherapy programmes such as massage beds, inflatable balls, skeleton models etc.\n\nAlma Mater Europaea has a career center, which assists students with their employment. Employment rate of the Alma Mater Europaea graduates is the highest in the country.\n\nStudy programmes, accredited until now:\n\nAMEU – ECM has joined The Institutum Studiorum Humanitatis (ISH) – Ljubljana, Faculty for the postgraduate studies of the Humanities and Dance Academy.\n\nSome of the successful research projects include:\n\nThe iPad one-to-one program uses technology that’s already a big part of students’ lives to make them more excited about learning. Recognizing that students get most of their information from the internet, AMEU wanted to adapt their teaching methods to an increasingly digital world, to help students better prepare for real life. By incorporating digital literacy standards into the curriculum, the goal was to create a teaching environment using the same technology that students were already using outside school. Because it was important to move away from traditional textbooks, AMEU chose the iPad as a learning tool because it gives students access to the world as it is today. Giving students access to iPad also allows teachers to better adapt to their students’ unique needs and abilities. Students are no longer limited to writing essays and answering multiple-choice questions in order to demonstrate what they’ve learned.\n\nAMEU provides students with opportunities to participate in sporting events and has therefore formed several teams to compete in sports. As of now there is a footbal/soccer team, a volleyball team and basketball team all going by the name Team Alma Mater. The teams were formed in the study year 2014/2015 based on the initiative of the students and the student council. In the year 2016/2016 they elected the president of Team Alma Mater. The team competes in tournaments of footsal, volleybal and street basketball. \nAlma Mater Europaea also provides support for professional athletes competing in individual sports such as martial arts. Most of the professional athletes are students at the Physiotherapy program at Alma Mater Europaea.\n\nIn accordance with the Alma Mater Europaea – ECM Statute following bodies operate within the organization:\n\nThe senate is one of the highest organizational bodies in the university. Its most important tasks are passing the statute, approving the curricula, participating in habilitation and appeals proceedings as well as making second instance decisions regarding study matters. The Senate is an expert body of the institution which decides on all expert issues of the institute. The Chairman of the institution is the President of the institution. Members of the Senate are appointed by the Academic Assembly for a period of two years or until the appointment of a new Chairman.\n\nThe Management Board decides on material issues and ensures an unhindered business activity of the institution. The Management Board is a management body made up of five members – four representatives of the founder, two representatives of the institution and one representative of the students. The members are appointed for a period of four years and the representatives of the students for one year.\n\nThe President of Alma Mater Europaea is Professor Dr. Ludvik Toplak. The heads of individual study programs constitute the Presidents’ collegium.\n\nProfessor Dr. Ludvik Toplak is an authoritative expert in the field of law and member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts. He studied law in Ljubljana, Belgrade, Novi Sad, New York, Oslo and Potsdam.\n\nHe is the author and co-author of numerous scientific and research articles and publications from the field of civil law, trade law and international trade law, ecology, intellectual property, human rights and especially social market economy. He worked in economy (1980-1987) and in politics as the president of Družbeno-politični zbor, the first democratically elected parliament of the Republic of Slovenia (1990-1993). For three mandates prof. Dr. Ludvik Toplak was the rector of the University of Maribor (1993-2002). From 2002-2006 he was the ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Holy See. Today he is the vice-chancellor of Alma Mater Europaea - ECM University (founded by the European Academy of Sciences and Arts) and founder and president of the European Center, Maribor. Prof. Dr. Toplak is a member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts, Rotary International and the Council of Legislation. He was the president of the Danube Rectors Conference, president of the Alps-Adriatic Rectors Conference, member of Bureau of the European Rectors conference, member of Bureau of the Confederation of European Union Rectors’ Conference and the International Conference on High Education.\n\nThe Academic Assembly is composed of all faculty and academic associates of Alma Mater Europaea and student representatives.\n\nThe Academic Assembly is made up of all the higher education teachers, research associates and higher education associates cooperating in the study programmes of the institution. In the 2014/2015 academic year, the Chairman of the Academic Assembly is Tomaž Klojčnik, MSc. Students are always invited to the session through the Student Council.\n\nThe student council helps share student's ideas, interests and concerns. It is a representative body of the students and represents the students of the institution Members of the Student Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "7369316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7369316", "title": "Arthur Larson", "text": "Arthur Larson\n\nLewis Arthur Larson (July 4, 1910 – March 27, 1993) was an American lawyer, law professor, United States Under Secretary of Labor from 1954 to 1956, director of the United States Information Agency from 1956 to 1957, and Executive Assistant for Speeches for U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower from 1957 to 1958.\nArthur Larson (he avoided using his first name) was born in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. He was the third of five children of Lewis Larson and Anna Huseboe Larson, both of whom were second-generation Americans of Norwegian descent. Larson's father was a family court judge in Sioux Falls. Arthur Larson attended the public schools there and the local Lutheran college, Augustana, and then studied law at Pembroke College, Oxford (1932–1935) as a Rhodes Scholar. He was married to Florence Newcomb on July 31, 1935.\n\nLarson then worked as a lawyer for four years (1935–1939) with the firm of Quarles, Spence and Quarles in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. When Depression-era conditions led to his layoff in the summer of 1939, Larson found a job as assistant professor of law at the University of Tennessee College of Law in Knoxville. While in Tennessee, he and Florence Newcomb Larson had two children.\n\nIn 1941, during World War II, Larson moved to Washington, DC, when he mostly worked as a lumber industry regulator at the Office of Price Administration. In 1945, he became an assistant professor of law at Cornell Law School in Ithaca, New York. Over the next seven years, he produced a legal treatise on the \"Law of Workmen's Compensation\" (Mathew Bender: 1952), which led to his being named in 1953 as dean of the University of Pittsburgh School of Law in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nLarson's status as an expert on the welfare state and his strong public speaking abilities led to appointment as Under Secretary of Labor in March 1954 in the Eisenhower administration. He supported a union shop to compel workers into a labor union as \"a case of the individual... having to conform to the will of the majority.\" Larson soon became an articulate spokesman for Moderate Republicans. He declared himself part of \"the American center\" to which he also included President Eisenhower; Eisenhower's two-time opponent, Adlai Stevenson II; and Dean Acheson, a former secretary of state in the Harry Truman administration. Larson's most popular book, \"A Republican Looks at His Party\" (Harper and Row: 1956) was personally endorsed by Eisenhower.\n\nEisenhower named Larson the director of the United States Information Agency (USIA) in December 1956 and as his top speechwriter in October 1957.\n\nAfter leaving the Eisenhower administration in the fall of 1958, Larson became a law professor at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, where he specialized in international law, arms control, and disarmament.\n\nHe died in Durham on March 27, 1993. It is unknown if he was in his later years a registered Republican in North Carolina.\n\nLarson is criticized as a prototypical big government Republican in Barry Goldwater's landmark small government Republican manifesto, \"The Conscience of a Conservative\". However, his life and work are treated at length in a biography by David Stebenne, \"Modern Republican: Arthur Larson and the Eisenhower Years\" (Indiana University Press, 2006).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55476956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55476956", "title": "Assassination Nation", "text": "Assassination Nation\n\nAssassination Nation is a 2018 American black comedy thriller film written and directed by Sam Levinson. It stars Odessa Young, Suki Waterhouse, Hari Nef, Abra, Anika Noni Rose, Colman Domingo, Maude Apatow, Bill Skarsgård, Joel McHale and Bella Thorne. In the film, the city of Salem, Massachusetts devolves into chaos and violence after a computer hacker discovers and leaks personal secrets about many of its residents.\n\n\"Assassination Nation\" had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018, and was released in the United States on September 21, 2018, followed by a release in the UK on November 23, 2018, by NEON, AGBO and Refinery29. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised its \"frenetic and visually stylish\" action but criticized the thinly-written characters.\n\nThe film opens with a montage of trigger warnings that show brief scenes depicting topics ranging from toxic masculinity and transphobia to fragile male egos and giant frogs.\n\nIn Salem, Massachusetts, Lily Colson (Odessa Young) is a regular high school senior who is best friends with Bex (Hari Nef), Em (Abra), and Sarah (Suki Waterhouse). The girls go to a party where Bex hooks up with her crush Diamond (Danny Ramirez) while Lily goes to be alone with her boyfriend Mark (Bill Skarsgard) while texting someone named \"Daddy\" behind his back. After sex, Diamond leaves Bex and tells her to keep their hookup a secret as she is transgender.\n\nThe next day, Marty (Noah Gavin), a casual hacker, receives a message from an unknown hacker about Mayor Bartlett (Cullen Moss) a known anti-gay candidate, for engaging with male escorts and dressing up in women's clothing. He sends out Bartlett’s information to the entire town afterwards. The scandal becomes so distressing for Bartlett that he goes before a conference of people and kills himself with a revolver. Principal Turrell's (Colman Domingo) phone is the next to be hacked, and non-sexualized naked pictures of his underage daughter are shown, making people think that Turrell is a pedophile. He goes before a conference of people and refuses to resign, despite being advised otherwise.\n\nAs the police question Marty over Bartlett and Turrell's hacked information, a massive data dump of half the people in Salem is posted online. Lily's acquaintance Grace (Maude Apatow) discovers that her best friend Reagan (Bella Thorne) spread nude pictures of her to a guy she liked, and attacks Reagan with an aluminum bat at cheerleading practice. \"Daddy\" is revealed to be Em's neighbor Nick Mathers (Joel McHale), whose kids Lily babysat. Lily's lewd pictures and videos that she sent to Nick are made public when his information is leaked. As a result, she is exposed and humiliated by Mark, kicked out of the house by her parents, and is sexually harassed on the street when she looks for a place to stay. A man in a truck tries to film her, but she smashes his face in with a shovel.\n\nOne week later, most of the men in town have donned masks and taken up arms to defend their secrets and get revenge on people they think have wronged them. A masked Nick and other men find Marty, who they torture into admitting that the source of the hacks is Lily's computer on a live video. The men in the video stab Marty to death, and Lily - now staying with Sarah and Em - and her friends see the video. Unbeknownst to the girls, masked assailants have tracked them down and surrounded them at Sarah and Em’s house. The assailants break in and capture Em and Sarah. Nance (Anika Noni Rose) kills two of the men, but she is shot and killed by another as Em and Sarah are put into a police car. Bex successfully kills one of the attackers with a nail gun in the pool and escapes while Lily runs to safety at Nick’s house. Nick at first pretends to help her but then pulls out a knife, revealing his intent to rape her; Lily fights him off and slits his throat with a makeshift weapon made of a bar of soap and a razor blade, killing him. She then goes downstairs to discover a large supply of weapons including firearms and a katana, taking as many as she can carry.\n\nLily confronts the police officer with Em and Sarah in his car, shoots him to death, and frees her friends. They go to find Bex, who is about to be publicly hanged as retribution for Diamond's humiliation over having sex with a transgender woman. Johnny (Cody Christian) tries to force Diamond to perform the hanging, but Bex convinces him to change his mind. Johnny takes matters into his own hands to carry out the hanging, but Lily, Em, and Sarah arrive just in time to rescue Bex and kill her assailants. Bex lets Johnny live when he surrenders and also sets Diamond free. Lily then makes a video calling out to the other young women in the neighborhood to stand up and fight back against the armed men. Lily and her friends are joined by an army of young women as they come up against an army of masked assailants. At the end of the final battle, Donny (Caden Swain), Lily's younger brother, is captured by the FBI and revealed as the true perpetrator of the hack, facing a life sentence for his actions. When his father asks why he did it, Donny responds, \"I don't know, for the lulz?\"\n\nThe credits roll over the Salem High marching band marching and dancing down a street surrounded by dead bodies and destroyed vehicles.\n\nOn October 2016, Matthew Malek and Anita Gou launched the independent label Foxtail Entertainment. The duo announced the movie as their first project. David S. Goyer and Kevin Turen joined them to produce the movie.\n\nThe movie is also produced by Bron Studios and Phantom Four, in association with Creative Wealth Media.\n\nAfter the premiere at Sundance Film Festival, NEON acquired the movie rights. AGBO signed a deal with 30West, a company who acquired a majority stake in NEON, to co-distribute the film with NEON.\n\nIn July 2018, Refinery29 also signed with NEON to co-distribute the movie with them and AGBO.\n\nIn December 2016, Odessa Young, Suki Waterhouse, Hari Nef and Abra joined the main cast of the film.\n\nIn March 2017, Bella Thorne, Maude Apatow, Bill Skarsgård, Joel McHale, Colman Domingo and Noah Galvin joined the cast.\n\nIn April 2017, Anika Noni Rose joined the cast for the role of Nance, an attractive woman with terrible taste in men, who has an unfortunate reputation in the conservative town of Salem.\n\nPrincipal photography began in March 2017 in New Orleans. The sequence where the girls are attacked in Nance's home was shot in a single take using a crane.\n\nThe film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018. It was released on September 21, 2018 by NEON, AGBO and Refinery29.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, \"Assassination Nation\" was released alongside \"The House with a Clock in Its Walls\", \"Life Itself\" and \"Fahrenheit 11/9\", and was projected to gross around $4 million in its opening weekend from 1,403 theaters. However it ended up debuting to just $1 million, finishing 15th at the box office.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 72% based on 104 reviews, with a weighted average of 6.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Assassination Nation\" juggles exploitation and socially aware elements with mixed results, but genre fans may find it too stylish and viscerally energetic to ignore.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 56 out of 100, based on 28 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by PostTrak gave the film a 60% positive score and a 39% \"definite recommend\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3181897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181897", "title": "Brand Book", "text": "Brand Book\n\nA Brand Book records all livestock brands registered with an organization. In the U.S. most states have branding laws that require brands to be registered before use. This may be a state agency (usually affiliated with each state's Department of Agriculture) or a private association regulated by the state. Most states with such laws have a Brand Book for the entire state. Texas, an exception, registers brands at the county level. These book are usually provided free to law enforcement personnel and County Extension Agents. Some states have their Brand Books available online.\n\nA typical Brand Book will usually have an image of the brand, the location of the brand on the animal, and the type of animal that will be branded, as well as the owner of the brand. Many Brand Books also record earmarks.\n\nBrand Books are used by law enforcement officials, brand inspectors, and association investigators to record and track livestock movement, deter loss of livestock by straying or theft, and prosecute thieves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2105422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2105422", "title": "Charles R. Clason", "text": "Charles R. Clason\n\nCharles Russell Clason (September 3, 1890 – July 7, 1985) was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts and an attorney. Clason was born in Gardiner, Maine. He attended Bates College, and received his law degree from Georgetown University. Clason went on to Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar.\n\nHe worked for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the United States Department of Education in 1913 and 1914. He served as a sergeant major in the Coast Artillery in the Army in World War I. He was a member of the Commission for the Relief of Belgium in 1914 and 1915 and was decorated with the King Albert Medal.\n\nClason was a law instructor at Northeastern University's Springfield, Massachusetts campus from 1920 to 1937. During this time, he served as assistant district attorney of the western district of Massachusetts (1922–1926) and then district attorney (1927–1930).\n\nHe was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1936, and served six consecutive terms. After he lost the 1948 election to Foster Furcolo, Clason became dean of the Western New England College School of Law, located in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1988, the Western New England College School of Law honored Clason by naming a speaker series in his honor. The Clason Speaker Series provided a venue for 4-5 legal experts each year to present works-in-progress on current legal topics through lectures.\n"}
{"id": "50213264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50213264", "title": "Crowell-Collier Publishing Company", "text": "Crowell-Collier Publishing Company\n\nCrowell-Collier Publishing Company was an American publisher that owned the popular magazines \"Collier's\", \"Woman's Home Companion\" and \"The American Magazine\". Crowell also published general interest books and references such as \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" and the Harvard Classics series of books. \n\nThe company was founded by agricultural tool manufacturer P. P. Mast with a single magazine, \"Farm & Fireside (\"later the \"Country Home\"\")\" to sell farm tools and implements in 1877 in Springfield, Ohio. By 1881, Mast had relinquished control to John S. Crowell who expanded their company by purchasing \"Home Companion\" (later changing the name to \"Woman's Home Companion\").\n\nAfter P. P. Mast's death in 1898, Crowell obtained control of the company and established it as the Crowell Publishing Company. Crowell Publishing expanded their magazine holdings with \"The American Magazine\" in 1911 and the weekly \"Collier's\" in 1919. At one point Collier's weekly had over 1.25 million subscribers. Crowell's also published the \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" which came under fire from the FTC in 1940 for deceptive sales practices. \n\nAfter shuttering the magazine operations in the 1950s, the Crowell-Collier Publishing Company merged with the American Macmillan Company in 1960 and became a large educational company with subsidiaries for books, textbooks, correspondence schools and other educational tools and materials. The company officially changed its name to Macmillan, Inc. in 1973.\n\nThe Crowell-Collier Publishing Company had its roots in the agricultural trade of the 19th century. Industrialist Phineas P. Mast, the owner of P. P. Mast, manufactured farm and agricultural tools, and he wanted a magazine to promote his products. Mast made wind engines, pumps, plows and mowers in Springfield, Ohio. Mast hired John S. Crowell away from the successful \"Home and Farm\" of Louisville in 1877 to manage the new bi-monthly farm journal called \"Farm & Fireside\". By the 1890s, \"Farm & Fireside\" maintained a circulation of over half a million. Mast relinquished his role as acting executive in 1879, but he stayed on as an investor. Crowell along with T.J. Kirkpatrick (who was Mast's nephew) then changed the name of the publishing house to Mast, Crowell and Kirkpatrick Publishers. \n\nThe publishers soon expanded from the one magazine into other markets. They constructed the Farm and Fireside building in Springfield, Ohio, in 1881. In 1883, they purchased the \"Home Companion\" magazine from a Harvey & Finn of Cleveland, Ohio to meet the growing demand for content aimed at women. They bought \"Youth's Home Library\", a similar paper that had been published in Boston, and merged it with their youth-oriented publication \"Our Young People\". They then changed the name of the three merged periodicals back to the title \"Home Companion\", a general family magazine. By 1890 the magazine's subscription had reached 100,000. The \"Companion\" had a number of names but was changed to \"Woman's Home Companion\" in 1896. By the 1890s, \"Farm & Fireside\" was also publishing regional editions of the periodical. After the death of P. P. Mast in 1898, the company changed the name to Crowell and Kirkpatrick Publishers.\n\nAs the 20th century began, the company changed hands again and moved into mainstream magazine publishing. P. P. Mast died in 1898 (leaving an estate of a million and a half dollars). In 1902, John S. Crowell obtained Kirkpatrick's interests and established it as the Crowell Publishing Company. In 1906, Crowell turned around and sold his interest in the company to Joseph P. Knapp and George Hazen of New York, who incorporated in New Jersey and kept the name Crowell Publishing Company. The new company maintained offices in New York City in addition to Springfield, Ohio.\n\nCrowell Publishing Company lost a 1908 appeal before the Board of United States General Appraisers and were assessed countervailing duties on paper imported from Canada.\n\nCrowell Publishing acquired \"The American Magazine\" in 1911 from the Phillips Publishing Company. The magazine had muckraking roots but with the decline of muckraking journalism it had turned into a general interest magazine. However, an article in the New York Times noted that \"the purchase of \"the American Magazine\" by Crowell Publishing Company meant that 'the interests' were bent on swallowing up the muckrakers...\" They pointed to the fact that one of the heavy stockholders in the Crowell firm was Thomas W. Lamont who was also a partner of the newly formed J. P. Morgan & Company. Cleveland Moffett, a known muckraking journalist was quoted, \"...we are up against the powers of darkness. The right of free speech in America is in jeopardy. They are trying to muzzle the magazines. Several magazines have changed hands recently. They have come under the control of interests, and in each of them the muckraking features will cease. Muckraking, in spite of its name, is a power in this country, standing as it does to promote good citizenship.\" However, a second \"New York Times\" article about the acquisition stated that writers such as Ida Tarbell, Peter F. Dunne, and William Allen White were pleased with the opportunity. A spokesman from Phillips said that \"...instead of reaching 300,000 readers, we can now reach 3,000,000 readers through our new allies in the publication field. We ourselves were afraid the Trusts were behind the proposition before we looked into it, but all the magazines we affiliate with are insurgent like ourselves, and controlled by persons of insurgent sympathies.\"\n\nThat same year, several magazine publishers including Crowell were accused of conspiring to keep up magazine prices through the Periodical Clearing House. According to John Wood, a magazine man whose business had been severely impacted, the Periodical Clearing House was organized by law clerks and employees of the magazines. Wood claimed that ruinous fines had impacted his ability to sell subscriptions. At the same time libraries in the Central Western and Western states complained that the clearing house caused the cessation of club rates on magazines to libraries.\n\nIn 1919, the Crowell Publishing Company bought another general interest magazine, \"Collier's: The National Weekly\", and assumed control of Collier's book publishing. \"Collier's\" also had roots in muckraking journalism and social reform and had one of the largest magazine subscription audiences, then around one million weekly. The book-publishing arm published popular and serious literature topics as well as the \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" and published six million copies a year of books.\n\nBy 1924, the weekly circulation of \"Collier's\" had grown to 1,250,000. Crowell moved its print operations to Springfield, Ohio, because of \"excessive postage involved in mailing from a seaboard city under wartime postal rates\". The editorial and business departments remained in New York.\n\nIn 1930 \"Farm & Fireside\" magazine changed its name to \"The Country Home\". Also in 1930, the Crowell Publishing Company and P. F. Collier and Sons were sued for libel by R.B. Creager, a Republican National Committeeman for Texas. Creager sought $500,000 in damages after an article titled \"High-Handed and Hell-Bent\" appeared in \"Collier's Weekly\". The article by Owen P. White covered a political situation on the Mexican border in Hidalgo County. The jury returned a verdict for Crowell Publishing.\n\nIn 1939, Crowell Publishing merged the New York operations and changed the company name to The Crowell-Collier Publishing Co. That same year, \"The Country Home\" was discontinued.\n\nIn 1940 the FTC investigated the sales methods used for the \"Collier's Encyclopedia\". The publishing company and its officers and directors of the corporations were charged with misleading sale methods and representations in the sale of books and encyclopedias. The complaint charged that \"contrary to claims made, none of the respondents' publications is ever given as the result of a drawing or free, and as a gift or gratuity; that the purchase price of so-called free goods is, in every instance, included in the price of other merchandise sold to the customer; that in no case do they sell at actual cost, that the sum of $59 represented as a reduced price is the regular price, and that other claims are 'also deceptive and misleading.'\" \n\nDuring World War II, Crowell-Collier sponsored publication of a magazine for servicemen called \"Victory\".\n\nIn 1946, the Vanderbilt mansion at Fifth Avenue and Fifty-First Street was slated to be razed and replaced with a 19-story office building for the Crowell-Collier Publishing Company.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Crowell-Collier had heavy deficits and discontinued \"The American Magazine\", \"Collier's\", and \"Woman's Home Companion\". In December 1956 the company closed its Springfield plant, which at one point had employed more than 2,000 people. The closing shocked both publishers and readers. Many in the magazine field deemed the closing \"a foolish and impetuous move\", but as the company moved to reinvent itself as a producer of books and educational materials, the move was seen as shrewd and far-visioned.\n\nBy the early 1960s, Crowell-Collier had recovered financially. Leaving behind its roots in magazine publishing, it now turned to the growing market for education produced by the baby boom in the United States. Book sales had surged for reference books, textbooks, and encyclopedias and like many of the large publishers of that era such as Random House and Simon & Schuster, Crowell-Collier embarked on a merger and acquisitions spree. Crowell-Collier kicked off the decade by merging with the American Macmillan company and moved into the educational space. This was then followed by a number of mergers and acquisitions. On the move into education, Chairman Raymond C. Hagel said, \"We envision our major role as that of a developer of complete educational systems.\" He explained that an educational system was a \"unified instructional package involving a variety of tools.\" and that \"the business of education has become a successor to the defense industry. It is a security lifeline.\" Crowell would end the decade as Crowell Collier & Macmillan, a large conglomeration of subsidiaries that included books, schools, magazines, educational tools, bookstores, book clubs and radio stations and with an annual revenue of $390 million.\n\nIn December 1959, Crowell-Collier acquired 29 percent of Macmillian Company which published fiction, non-fiction, textbooks, reference books, religious books and children's books. By August 1960, Crowell-Collier held a 52.8 percent interest in Macmillan, and on December 30, 1960, the companies merged.\n\nMacmillan was once the American division of the British Macmillan Publishers (opened in 1869) and had been run by generations of the Brett family who eventually bought the company from the British in 1896. Macmillan published some notable authors including Jack London, Margaret Mitchell, and Winston Churchill. \n\nAt the time, the majority of Macmillan's sales came from textbooks and for Macmillan the merger meant access to cash and capital to grow their textbook market. Crowell-Collier ran Macmillan as a subsidiary but in 1965 Crowell-Collier officially changed its name to Crowell Collier & Macmillan, Inc. Publishing was dropped from the company name to reflect its broadened scope into education.\n\nTextbooks and encyclopedias were a booming business in 1959. While general books accounted for $408 million in sales, textbooks and encyclopedias totaled $597 million. Crowell's subsidiary P. F. Collier and Sons published the \"Collier's Encyclopedia\" and released a new 24-volume set in 1962. Since 1909 it also published the 51-volume Harvard Classics, an anthology of classic and world literature. The company expanded the line of encyclopedias by announcing that it would use the resources of Crowell-Collier, Macmillian and Free Press to begin work on a new multi-volume set on social sciences. W. Allen Wallis, named chairman of the editorial board for the encyclopedia said, \"In the past few years we have stressed the physical sciences because of our concern for defense, and the biological sciences because of our interest in better health. Perhaps of even greater importance to the continued survival of our country and, therefore, the whole free world, will be our ability to solve some of the great social problems of the day.\" \nThe Federal Trade Commission again cited Crowell-Collier and subsidiary P. F. Collier and Sons with making false claims through the door-to-door salesmen of the encyclopedias. In an article on stockholder questions in \"The New York Times\", shareholders at a meeting in 1963 complained about tactics used by door-to-door encyclopedia salesmen. Nine years later in 1969, the F.T.C. ordered the distributors of Collier's Encyclopedias to stop the use of deceptive sales promoting the publication. The agency charged the company with \"Implying through promotional literature and door-to-door salesmen that a set of the encyclopedias would be given free or at a reduced price if yearly supplements were purchased.\"\n\nIn 1960, Crowell began to expand further into general book markets. Collier Books, the paperback division of Crowell-Collier Publishing Company, began publishing in October 1961 at the rate of 50 paperback titles a month. The list included scholarly books, nonfiction and fiction reprints and original works. Crowell-Collier Press was a hardcover publisher started in 1962 with a focus on adult nonfiction and children's books. The children's series, the Modern Masters Books for Children, was edited by anthologist Louis Untermeyer and included picture books by Robert Graves (\"The Big Green Book\"), Shirley Jackson (\"9 Magic Wishes\") and Phyllis McGinley (\"The B Book\"). The books were created using a controlled vocabulary of fewer than 800 words created by elementary educators.\n\nIn 1962, Crowell also purchased book club distributor Scientific Materials, Inc., which included Library of Science, Science Book Club, Natural History Book Club, and Basic Book Service. In addition to the four professional level book clubs, two others aimed at young adults including the Young Adults' Division and Junior Scientists Division of the Library of Science were also a part of the acquisition. Crowell-Collier later that same year turned around and sold the toy manufacturing arm of Scientific Materials, Inc. to Allis-Chalmers manufacturing\n\nIn 1962, Crowell made another push into the book market with a purchase of book clubs and retail bookstores. In the same year, they purchased 16 Brentano's bookstores. At the time bookstores were heavily competing with department stores and discount houses offering reduced rates for bestsellers. By 1967, the Brentano's chain had grown to 21 stores and had sales of $7 million.\n\nIn 1962, Crowell-Collier Publishing Company created a new division called Crowell-Collier Educational Corporation. The educational arm was created to develop instructional and reference materials as well as teaching aids for us in schools, colleges, adult education, business, and industrial training and home study.\n\nOther acquisitions included the following:\n\nVocational training became big business in the 1960s as companies attempted fill a void between a high school diploma and college degrees and Crowell-Collier made significant acquisitions expanding into this market. In 1960, Crowell purchased the La Salle Extension University—a correspondence school. In 1965 Crowell Collier & Macmillan, Inc. purchased Berlitz Schools of Languages of America, Inc.and Berlitz Publications for $5 million. Crowell purchased Katherine Gibbs School, Inc. a secretarial school. It also attempted to acquire Famous Artists Schools, Inc. a writing and art correspondence school by purchasing 25% of shares which it later sold to institutional investors in 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Crowell filed a lawsuit against National Home Study Council of Washington which was a private accrediting agency. The suit said that National Home was a monopoly and had denied re-accreditation to the U.S. School of Music, Inc. and La Salle Extension University. By 1969, Crowell made 22% of its revenue from La Salle Extension University, Berlitz, and Katharine Gibbs. The lawsuit settled but at the same time, the entire mail-order schooling came under fire from the New York Times for dubious practices including \"overblown advertising, fast talking salesmen, questionable instruction and marginal results.\"\n\nIn 1968 the company merged with Publication Corporation, a leading printer of Sunday magazines for newspapers and the publisher of \"This Week magazine\". The companies had a shared history—Joseph P. Knapp, who had helped develop the Crowell Publishing Company, had founded Publication Corporation as American Lithograph Company in 1891. The Publication had also been a principal stockholder of Crowell-Collier—owning 24% at one point. The goal for the merger was to distribute periodicals efficiently in the education market. By 1969, Crowell made the decision to shut down the \"This Week\" magazine which had a circulation of 9 million as a weekend supplement for papers such as \"The Providence Journal\" and \"the Kansas City Star\".\n\nIn 1969 Crowell Collier & Macmillan went back to publishing magazines but with a focus on education. They acquired six magazines including \"Grade Teacher\", \"the Catholic School Journal\", \"Industrial Arts\" and \"Vocational Education\", \"College Management\", \"School Management\" and \"Business Management\". These magazines made up a subsidiary CCM magazines based in Greenwich, Conn.\n\nCrowell-Collier Broadcasting operated radio stations in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Minneapolis.\n\nIn 1969 Crowell-Collier purchased the Gump's store in San Francisco.\n\nCrowell-Collier purchased C.G. Conn a manufacturer of musical instruments in 1968.\n\nIn 1966 the company consolidated 1400 employees into a new building on 866 3rd Avenue called the Crowell Collier & Macmillan building.\n\nBy the start of the 1970s, Crowell Collier & Macmillan was now a $400 million multinational producer of books and educational materials. Crowell Collier & Macmillan decided to change the name of the company to Macmillan, Inc. First, though, they encountered a legal battle over the name with Macmillan, Ltd. of London—who had spun-off from the original American Macmillan in 1896. For the name to take effect on January 1, 1973, the companies agreed to some conditions including the American company using Crowell-Collier or another name to distinguish the businesses in which the British Macmillan operated. The British Macmillan stated that the name had already been causing confusion with the public resulting in misdirected book orders and the fear that the American company was planning to use the name to compete unfairly in markets where the British company was active. The case cited the Lanham Act, the trademark act of 1946. \nThis was not the only legal battle that the now Macmillan, Inc. faced at the start of the seventies. Macmillan sued Charles F. Berlitz, grandson of the founder of Berlitz to prohibit him from using the Berlitz name in travel and writing businesses. Berlitz won the lawsuit and was awarded $376,000 and the right to use his name as an author of books on foreign languages. The Justice Department filed a civil anti-trust suit against Crowell, Collier & Macmillan, Inc. in 1970 and requested that it divest itself from C.G. Conn, Ltd (a manufacturer and retailer of musical instruments) and Uniforms by Ostwald, Inc. (manufacturer and retailer of band uniforms).\n\nCrowell-Collier was also under fire by the FTC again in 1972 and accused of using deceptive practices in selling its Harvard Classics and in billing encyclopedia buyers and also in recruiting of encyclopedia salesmen. Of the Harvard Classics, the FTC stated that while the company marketed that one or several volumes were offered free or for $1 each \"with the understanding that additional volumes priced at $3.98 would be shipped periodically for free examination\", many volumes would be shipped in a bulk shipment. Buyers were subjected to repeated mailings of bills. Crowell responded that they had already discontinued the Harvard Classics \"continuity\" program and that any \"isolated\" occurrences or procedures had been changed. For the encyclopedias, Crowell was accused of raising the price on Encyclopedia annual supplements called Yearbooks. They were also accused of advertising positions for encyclopedia salesman as \"administrative assistant trainees\" and \"marketing and public relations personnel\". Crowell issued a statement disavowing any violations but agreed to negotiate a consent order.\n\nMartin Gardner protesting Crowell-Collier's publishing of the psychic surgeon John G. Fuller's book \"Arigo\" withdrew publication of his own (Gardner) book.\n\n"}
{"id": "5464548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464548", "title": "Department of Education (Philippines)", "text": "Department of Education (Philippines)\n\nThe Department of Education (abbreviated as DepEd; ) is the executive department of the Philippine government responsible for ensuring access to, promoting equity in, and improving the quality of basic education. It is the main agency tasked to manage and govern the Philippine system of basic education. It is the chief formulator of Philippine education policy and responsible for the Philippine primary and secondary school systems. It has its headquarters at the DepEd Complex in Meralco Avenue, Pasig City.\n\nThe department is currently led by the Secretary of Education, nominated by the President of the Philippines and confirmed by the Commission on Appointments. The Secretary is a member of the Cabinet. The current Secretary of Education is Leonor Briones. Presently, its mission is to provide quality basic education that is equitably accessible to all and lay the foundation for lifelong learning and service for the common good. It has changed its vision statement, removing a phrase that some groups deem to be \"too sectarian\" for a government institution.\n\nDuring the early Spanish period, education in the Philippines was religion-oriented and was primarily for the elite, especially in the first years of Spanish colonization. Access to education by Filipinos was later liberalized through the enactment of the Educational Decree of 1863, which provided for the establishment of at least one primary school for boys and girls in each town under the responsibility of the municipal government, and the establishment of a normal school for male teachers under the supervision of the Jesuits. Primary instruction was secularized and free, and the teaching of Spanish was compulsory. It was also through this decree that the 'Superior Commission of Primary Instruction' was established, the seminal agency of the Department of Education.\n\nThe defeat of Spain by United States forces in 1898 paved the way for Aguinaldo's Republic under a Revolutionary Government. The schools maintained by Spain for more than three centuries were closed temporarily but were reopened on August 29, 1898 by the Secretary of the Interior. A system of free and compulsory elementary education was established by the Malolos Constitution, under Article 23. However, this first sovereign education system was interrupted in 1899 with the start of the Philippine–American War, and was finally dismantled.\n\nA secularized and free public school system during the first decade of American rule was established upon the recommendation of the Schurman Commission in 1900. Free primary instruction that trained the people for the duties of citizenship was enforced by the Taft Commission as per instructions of US President William McKinley. Chaplains and non-commissioned officers were assigned to teach using English as the medium of instruction.\n\nA highly centralized public school system was instituted in January 1901 by the Taft Commission, by virtue of Act No. 74. This act also established the Department of Public Instruction, headed by a General Superintendent. The implementation of this Act created a heavy shortage of teachers so the Philippine Commission authorized the Superintendent of Public Instruction to brin 500 teachers from the United States to the Philippines. They would later be popularly known as the Thomasites.\n\nIn 1908, the Philippine Legislature approved Act No. 1870, creating the University of the Philippines.\n\nThe Organic Act of 1916 reorganized the Department of Public Instruction, mandating that it be headed by a Secretary. This act also mandated the Filpinization of department secretaries, except that of the Secretary of Public Instruction.\n\nDuring World War II, the department was reorganized once again through the Japanese's Military Order No. 2 in February 1942, splitting the department into the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, Labor and Public Instruction. Under the Japanese, the teaching of Tagalog, Philippine history, and character education was given priority. Love for work and the dignity of labor were also emphasized.\n\nIn October 1944, months after Pres. Manuel L. Quezon's death, the department was renamed as the Department of Public Instruction and Information, with Carlos P. Romulo at the helm. Upon the return and resumption of the Commonwealth Government in February 1945, its name was changed to the Department of Instruction.\n\nIn 1947, by virtue of Executive Order No. 94 by Pres. Manuel Roxas, the department was reorganized to the Department of Education. During this period, the regulation and supervision of public and private schools belonged to the Bureau of Public and Private Schools.\n\nUpon the start of Martial Law in September 1972, it became the Department of Education and Culture and subsequently reorganized into the Ministry of Education and Culture in June 1978 by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 1397, due to the shift to a parliamentary system of government. Thirteen regional offices were created and major organizational changes were implemented in the educational system.\n\nThe Education Act of 1982 created the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports, which became the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) in 1987 via Executive Order No. 117 by President Corazon C. Aquino.\n\nThe structure of DECS as embodied in EO 117 has practically remained unchanged until 1994, when the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) was established, and in August 25, 1994, when the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) was established to supervise tertiary degree programs and non-degree technical-vocational programs, respectively. The trifocal education system refocused the department's mandate to basic education which covers elementary, secondary and non-formal education, including culture and sports. CHED is responsible for tertiary education, while TESDA now administers the post-secondary, middle-level manpower training and development.\n\nIn August 2001, the Governance of Basic Education Act was passed, renaming the DECS to the Department of Education (DepEd) and redefining the role of field offices, which include regional offices, division offices, district offices, and schools.\n\nThe Act removed the administration of cultural and sports activities from the department. The National Historical Institute, Records Management and Archives Office, and the National Library are now administratively attached to the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA). All previous functions, programs, and activities related to sports competition were transferred to the Philippine Sports Commission (PSC). In addition, the Bureau of Physical Education and School Sports was abolished.\n\nAt present, the Department is headed by the Secretary of Education, with the following undersecretaries and assistant secretaries:\n\nUnder the Office of the Secretary are the following offices and services:\n\nA director is assigned to each of the 17 regions of the Philippines; the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao is governed by a regional secretary. A division superintendent is assigned to each of the school divisions defined by the department.\n\nDepEd is composed of 18 bureaus and services:\n\nThe following agencies, councils and schools are attached to DepEd for policy and program coordination:\n\nThe Commission on Higher Education (CHED) is now attached to the Office of the President, while the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) is now attached to the Department of Labor and Employment.\n"}
{"id": "286632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286632", "title": "Deweyism", "text": "Deweyism\n\nDeweyism is the philosophy of education expounded by John Dewey in his 1897 article \"\". It emphasized social interaction and group learning over individual education, and became the dominant influence on American education.\n\nAccording to John Dewey's article \"\" (1897), education is only as individual as our society allows it to be. We (people) are unconsciously trained from birth. Our social consciousness, our cultural ways and what we value are a mock up of a collective social being, according to Dewey. We are all a product of our social surroundings from birth through adulthood and death. Eventually we \"become an inheritor of the funded capital of civilization.\" Dewey exerts that individual best is achieved in the spirit of and for the greater good. \"Through these demands he is stimulated to act as a member of a unity, to emerge from his original narrowness of action and feeling and to conceive of himself from the standpoint of the welfare of the group to which he belongs.\" As a member of society, we are confined to language and its meanings, but also empowered by it.\n\nDewey believes that \"the educational process has two sides.\" Psychological and sociological impacts are two sides of the education process that go hand-in-hand; \"neither can be subordinated to the other or neglected without evil results following.\" Psychology provides the foundation of education while sociology provides the scenario. Unless what is taught and how we teach relates to students' lives, it can become stressful. Even good grades are not indicative of authentic learning. Students may become disenfranchised. Psychology and social dynamics must exist in conjunction with each other to create a truly internal experience. It is important to know what is happening in the world-at-large, according to Dewey. One must also look at the student's world to ensure success relevant to their own realm of accomplishment. \"We must also be able to project them into the future to see what their outcome and end will be.\" Dewey holds that we must look into the individual future of every student and see what their own outlook is and how we can get there—not a collective outlook defined by blanket societal expectations of success by every person. Dewey states, \"To know what a power really is we must know what its end, use, or function is.\" In sum, a student cannot achieve power over their future until they know what their future can be. Teachers cannot prepare students for a future we cannot foretell as a result of ever-changing technology. People can truly prepare for the future by empowering students. In Dewey's words, \"To prepare him for the future life means to give him command of himself.\" Hands-on learning that utilizes the senses and capacity of the student creates the most success, intrinsically and externally. Dewey believes \"that the individual who is to be educated as a social individual and that society is an organic union of individuals.\" Demonstration of this success shows a psychological process. Utilizing the skills derived from effective psychological learning, social factors can be successfully recognized and addressed.\n\nEducation is a social process. According to the creed, it should not be used for the purposes of preparation for living in the future. Dewey said, \"I believe that education, therefore, is a process of living and not a preparation for future living.\" We can build a child's self-esteem in not only the classroom but in all aspects of his or her life. Education must always stay true to children and align with their reality in order to be true. Dewey argues that some children are over labeled and misunderstood because we take away authentic experiences by not relating education to natural human order. More importantly he emphasizes, \"Existing life is so complex that the child cannot be brought into contact with it without either confusion or distraction….and he becomes either unduly specialized or else disintegrated.\"\n\nDewey believes that education and school ought to be an extension of home. Personal background is psychological and gives way to new ideas. This is summed up in the quote, \"It is the business of the school to deepen and extend his sense of the values bound up in his home life.\" In schools currently, the information is given, lessons are learned and habits are formed, similar to the banking model of education criticised by Paulo Freire in his 1970 book \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Dewey states that this is not effective. Working together is vital to unity and success. He states, \"The present educational systems, so far as they destroy or neglect this unity, render it difficult or impossible to get any genuine, regular moral meanings.\"\nWe need to see school as a social experience, according to this creed. The teacher is the guide and chooses what relevant experience will guide each child through the education process. When it comes to assessment, Dewey states that grading should be relevant to the child's own progress. Exams are to be used for social ordering rather than individual upkeep.\n\nFollowing suit with his other theories, Dewey believes that subject matter should reflect students' real lives. Schools focus on too many subjects, which may not reflect the students' actual experiences. The child's own activities should determine curriculum. For example, students are often given literature lessons at the beginning of the learning experience, when it is the sum of events, making the subject relevant for the end of learning; This gives the student time to shape his or her own views before being told how history or some one else has seen something. It should be given at the end as a summative reflection. \n\nWe need to let children be constructive and pave their own paths, according to Dewey. \"I believe that the only way to make a child conscious of his social heritage is to enable him to perform those fundamental types of activity which makes civilization what it is.\" Dewey takes on a constructive point of view. He says that at times vocations may be more relevant and should be main subjects. In order to learn formal subjects, students need to be relaxed. Dewey explains that in order to achieve that, they must be comfortable with what they have learned up to that point. All subjects are relevant to life.\n\n\nIn Dewey's words, \"education is the fundamental method of social progress and reform.\" Social consciousness shapes individual perceptions. Society also has an obligation to reform education. As a society we are responsible for one another. \"I believe it is the business of every one interested in education to insist upon the school as the primary and most effective instrument of social progress and reform in order that society may be awakened to realize what the school stands for, and aroused to the necessity of endowing the educator with sufficient equipment properly to perform his task.\" Education is the perfect combination of art and science. Dewey sees that we must use individuality for the greater good. Dewey recognizes that teaching is noble and selfless. Teachers show us our way.\n"}
{"id": "53274938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53274938", "title": "Dickinson College Commentaries", "text": "Dickinson College Commentaries\n\nDickinson College Commentaries is a digital project of Dickinson College, which is located in Carlisle, near Harrisburg, in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. The project assembles digital commentaries on texts in Latin and ancient Greek and publishes core vocabularies of the most common words in those languages. It is hosted by the department of Classical Studies.\n\nIn 2010 DCC launched a pilot site in MediaWiki that was dedicated to notes on the selections from Gallic Wars used in the American Advanced Placement Latin Exam. The site moved to Drupal in 2012. \nThe project director is Christopher Francese, the Asbury J. Clarke Professor of Classical Studies at Dickinson College.\n\nCommentary proposals are reviewed and edited in a process similar to that used by traditional academic print publishers.\n\nDickinson College Commentaries supports open-source content, and publishes all content under a Creative Commons CC-BY-SA license.\n\n"}
{"id": "3218683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218683", "title": "E-mentoring", "text": "E-mentoring\n\nE-mentoring is a means of providing a guided mentoring relationship using online software or email. It stemmed from mentoring programs with the invention of the internet, and began to gain popularity around 1993. First used for programs connecting schoolchildren with business people, e-mentoring is now popular throughout the US, the UK, and some parts of Europe. A very recent development is websites offering online mentoring (not just matching of a mentor and a mentee).\n\nMany early e-mentoring programs used email communication to link mentors and mentees. Telephone communication was also occasionally used, known as telementoring. One of the first e-mentoring programs was developed in Canada in 1990, where teachers from schools in British Columbia were given online support and training by experienced peers. The teachers and peers never met in a face-to-face context.\n\nModern e-mentoring projects tend to rely on web-based solutions, particularly if children are involved. Online software allows both mentors and mentees to log into a secure online environment where they can converse under supervision of moderators and coordinators.\n\nAn example of an e-mentoring organization is in the US is MentorNet, a non-profit e-mentoring organization that focuses on women and underrepresented minorities in the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) fields. MentorNet uses an algorithm to match over 27,000 mentor relationships since 1997. The organization is unique because it uses technology to guide relationships between mentors and protégés. MentorNet focuses on college-level protégés for the 8-month matching scheme. Another US provider is Chronus who provide eMentoring services across various sectors from enterprise to non-profit.\n\nAn example of an e-mentoring provider in the UK is Brightside, a non-profit e-mentoring organization that works with 60 businesses, charities and universities. Brightside has developed a secure online portal featuring interactive content and resources through which over 6,000 trained online mentors are connected with over 21,000 young people, providing them with information and guidance about education and employment. Newer entrants to the UK market include sfG MentorNet®, which was designed jointly with a youth-based mentoring charity but which is also now being used by an increasing number of Careers Departments within UK universities. Others include Aluminati with their Aluminate eMentoring platform targeted to alumni and students of higher educational institutions and Mentor Match Me.\n\nOnline mentoring websites attempt to offer a knowledge base with access mechanisms so a user can get mentoring advice comparable to the advice they could get from an experienced mentor -- but get the advice directly from their smartphone, tablet or computer, without having to communicate with a human. One example of this kind of e-mentoring is the MyCareerMentor app. \n\nE-mentoring can retain the face to face interaction by utilizing video chat services, such as FaceTime, Google Hangouts, Skype, video chat through Facebook, etc.\n\nOnline mentoring is occasionally compared unfavourably with face to face mentoring. The medium limits the ability to pick up on visual or social clues, makes immediate feedback difficult and can often be seen as impersonal.\n\nHowever, e-mentoring can make participants more willing to offer honest feedback. It is also being embraced more readily by those in business who want to become mentors, as e-mentoring is less time-consuming than face-to-face mentoring.\n\nIt has been suggested that the quality of the mentoring relationship is heavily influenced by the amount of common interests that the mentor and mentee have. As such, most charities and businesses that offer eMentoring programmes require some shared interest between the mentor and mentee. It is also generally accepted that any mentoring relationship is most effective during a transitional period in the mentee's life, such as applying to university or making decisions about future careers.\n\nE-mentoring programs also impact beneficially on the motivation of the youth pursuing post highschool studies. The impression, that is driven from the exchanges with an e-mentor working in the field of interests of the youth, of \"how important the studies are\" if he wants to get the job he dreams of is tangible.\n\n\nOnline Mentoring For Search Engine Optimization\n"}
{"id": "52856897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52856897", "title": "Education (Scotland) Act 1872", "text": "Education (Scotland) Act 1872\n\nThe Education (Scotland) Act 1872 (35 & 36 Vict. c. 62), also known as Forster's Education Act made primary education universal and mandatory in Scotland; poverty was no longer an excuse for truancy. \n\nThe act mandated the exclusive use of English-medium education in Scotland, in effect banning Scottish Gaelic medium education. For this reason it is credited with causing substantial harm to the Scottish Gaelic language and contributing to its overall decline.\n\nIn 1866 the government established the Argyll Commission, under Whig grandee George Campbell, 8th Duke of Argyll, to look into the schooling system. It found that of 500,000 children in need of education 200,000 were receiving it under efficient conditions, 200,000 in schools of doubtful merit, without any inspection and 90,000 were receiving no education at all. Although this compared favourably with the situation in England, with 14% more children in education and with relatively low illiteracy rates of between 10 and 20%, similar to those in the best-educated nations such as those in Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Scandinavia, the report was used as support for widespread reform. The result was the 1872 Education (Scotland) Act, based on that passed for England and Wales as the Elementary Education Act 1870, but providing a more comprehensive solution.\n\nUnder the act approximately 1,000 regional school boards were established and, unlike in England where they merely attempted to fill gaps in provision, immediately took over the schools of the old and new kirks and were able to begin to enforce attendance, rather than after the decade necessary in England. Some ragged and industrial schools requested to be taken over by the boards, while others continued as Sunday schools. All children aged from 5 to 13 years were to attend. Poverty was not accepted as an excuse and some help was supplied under the Poor laws. This was enforced by the School Attendance Committee, while the boards busied themselves with building to fill the gaps in provision. This resulted in a major programme that created large numbers of grand, purpose-built schools. Overall administration was in the hands of the Scotch (later Scottish) Education Department in London. Demand for places was high and for a generation after the act there was overcrowding in many classrooms, with up to 70 children being taught in one room. The emphasis on a set number of passes at exams also led to much learning by rote and the system of inspection led to even the weakest children being drilled with certain facts.\n\nThe Education (Scotland) Act 1872 effectively put an end to non-English medium education and repressed Gaelic with pupils being punished for speaking the language. Pupils were belted if caught speaking in Gaelic and beaten again if they did not reveal the names of other students speaking Gaelic. The effect of the education act upon the Gaelic language has been described as \"disastrous\" and by denying the value of Gaelic culture and language, contributed to destroying the self-respect of Gaelic communities. It was a continuation of a general policy (by both Scottish and, after 1707, British governments) which aimed at Anglicisation.\n\nAs a result of facing punishment and humiliation for speaking Gaelic, many parents decided not to pass on the language to their children, resulting in language shift. Scottish Gaelic medium education was not established until the 1980s, and the impact of the Act is still being felt in Gaelic communities today.\n\n"}
{"id": "6043776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6043776", "title": "Felix Newton Pitt", "text": "Felix Newton Pitt\n\nMonsignor Felix Newton Pitt was born in 1894. He was born in Fairfield, Kentucky. He attended the St. Meinrad Seminary in Indiana from 1911 to 1915. He held a Swiss academic doctorate. One of his achievements was founding and organizing the Catholic school office in Louisville, Kentucky. In 1928 and 1929 while Secretary of the Catholic School Board he formed the Catholic Recreation Commission. He was a pioneer on WHAS radio in ecumenical broadcast. He has also served on the post-World War II international committee. In 1949 when he was 55 years old he founded Pitt Academy a school for special kids. It was the first facility in Louisville for developmentally disabled students. Msgr. Pitt is also an author who in 1951 wrote the book \"Catholic Education Today and Tomorrow\". He died in 1971 at the age of 77. \n\nA biography was published in 2016 by his nephew on his sister's side, Pitt G. Thome: Journey of a Country Soul: The Life and Ministry of Monsignor Felix N. Pitt, Kentucky's Preeminent Catholic Educator of the 20th Century. While it contains personal anecdotes, much of the book focuses on researched historical information placed in the context of events as they occurred. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8990664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8990664", "title": "Global Heritage Fund", "text": "Global Heritage Fund\n\nGlobal Heritage Fund (GHF) is a non-profit organization that operates internationally. \nFounded in California in 2002, GHF says it has since then invested over $25 million and secured $20 million in co-funding for 19 global heritage sites to ensure their sustainable preservation and responsible development. \nProjects are selected by GHF's Senior Advisory Board. GHF states that selection is based on a number of factors, including cultural significance of site, need of country or region in question, and high potential for sustainable preservation through community involvement.\n\nBased on information from their website, GHF has 13 currently active projects:\n(* indicates a UNESCO World Heritage Site)\n\nGHF has ended its work on six sites:\n\nIn 2010, GHF launched Global Heritage Network (GHN), an early warning and threats monitoring system that uses satellite imaging technology and ground reporting to enable international experts and local conservation leaders to clearly identify and solve imminent threats within the legal core and protected areas of each site.\n\nIn October 2010, GHF produced a report titled \"Saving Our Vanishing Heritage: Safeguarding Endangered Cultural Heritage Sites in the Developing World.\" The report listed 500 major archaeological and heritage sites in developing countries, evaluating their current loss and destruction, conservation and development. It identified nearly 200 of these sites as <nowiki>\"At Risk”</nowiki> or <nowiki>“Under Threat,” and 12 as “On the Verge”</nowiki> of irreparable loss and destruction. The \"Vanishing\" report stated that there were five accelerating man-made threats facing global heritage sites in developing countries: development pressures, unsustainable tourism, insufficient management, looting, and war and conflict.\n"}
{"id": "54617573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54617573", "title": "Grand Challenges for Social Work", "text": "Grand Challenges for Social Work\n\nThe Grand Challenges for Social Work is an initiative spearheaded by the American Academy of Social Work and Social Welfare.\n\nThe social work profession has identified 12 challenges as inspirational objectives for society in the United States. The challenges are modeled after a similar undertaking led by the National Academy of Engineering. Dean Edwina Uehara, PhD, Professor and Ballmer Endowed Dean, University of Washington, School of Social Work, proposed the Grand Challenges approach to the American Academy of Social Work and Social Welfare.\n\nChallenges were identified in partnership with sister organizations, including: National Association of Social Workers, Council on Social Work Education, Society for Social Work and Research, Group for the Advancement of Doctoral Education in Social Work, National Association of Deans and Directors in Social Work, and the St. Louis Group. The 12 Grand Challenges were announced in January 2016 at the Society for Social Work and Research annual conference in Washington, DC., as a public call to action for all professions to work together to create a more just, equitable, and vital society.\n\nIn 2013, the Grand Challenges for Social Work Executive Committee engaged national social work organizations, interest groups, and academic institutions to conceptualize and outline the Grand Challenges initiative. The committee decided on an inclusive, bottom-up approach, soliciting ideas from academia, the practice community, and the public. More than 80 suggestions for Grand Challenge topics were submitted online and in-person. From the ideas, the committee issued a call for concept papers and approximately 40 papers were submitted. As part of this work, the group commissioned several background papers and an Impact Model to define the issues, describe the accomplishments of social work to date, and explain the Grand Challenges concept.\n\nThe founding executive committee was composed of scientists, educators, and policy experts from throughout the field of social work and social welfare. Founding members included: John Brekke, PhD (Co-Chair), School of Social Work, University of Southern California; Rowena Fong, EdD (Co-Chair), School of Social Work, The University of Texas at Austin; Richard Barth, PhD, MSW, School of Social Work, University of Maryland; Claudia Coulton, PhD, Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, Case Western Reserve University; Diana DiNitto, PhD, School of Social Work, University of Texas at Austin; Marilyn Flynn, PhD, School of Social Work, University of Southern California; J. David Hawkins, PhD, University of Washington; James Lubben, PhD, School of Social Work, Boston College; Ron Mandersheid, PhD, National Association of County Behavioral Health & Developmental Disabilities Directors; Yolanda C. Padilla, PhD, LMSW-AP, School of Social Work, The University of Texas at Austin; Michael Sherraden, PhD, George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University of St. Louis; Edwina Uehara, PhD, School of Social Work, University of Washington; Karina Walters, PhD, School of Social Work, University of Washington; James Herbert Williams, PhD, Graduate School of Social Work, University of Denver; Sarah Christa Butts, MSW, first AASWSW Administrator, and Executive Director, University of Maryland, School of Social Work.\n\nThe current executive committee is co-chaired by Marilyn Flynn, PhD, Dean, 2U Endowed Chair in Educational Innovation and Social Work; Suzanne Dworak-Peck, School of Social Work, University of Southern California; Michael Sherraden, PhD, George Warren Brown Distinguished University Professor, Washington University in St Louis, George Warren Brown School of Social Work; and Edwina Uehara, PhD, Professor and Ballmer Endowed Dean, University of Washington School of Social Work.\n\nThe 12 Grand Challenges for Social Work are:\n\n\nSocial work scholars are leading 12 implementation networks, and universities of all sizes are beginning to organize by regional consortia. There have been Grand Challenge-themed meetings and conferences, colloquia, as well as several special issue journals. Curriculum development and recruitment of students is also a significant goal. In 2016, USC School of Social Work announced a DSW program themed around the Grand Challenges. Additionally, each Grand Challenge has developed a set of policy recommendations. The University of Maryland School of Social Work published an article detailing the history and progress of the Grand Challenges initiative in the Winter 2017 issue of Connections Magazine.\n\nIn 2017, the Journal of the Society for Social Work and Research published a special section on implementing the Grand Challenges. There are also a series of books on the 12 challenge topics.\n\nSeveral events focused on Grand Challenges are taking place around the country. Berkeley Social Welfare has held sessions on health and mental health, the effect of new technology on social service delivery and outcomes, women and poverty, and issues around aging services and policy.\n\nOn November 11, 2016, the University of Iowa, with the support of the National Association of Social Workers, held a day-long conference on the Grand Challenges. The aim of the conference was to bolster the leadership capacity of social work professionals and social justice advocates by detailing the issues and current efforts to address them, as well as initiating conversations around promising new approaches.\n\nSocial work has been concerned with social policy innovation for some time. The profession has been a leader in freeing families from poor houses and children from orphanages, halting child labor, advocating for women’s rights and civil rights, creating Social Security and fair labor standards, fighting for fair and inclusive housing, and much more. The social-justice values of social work, combined with research and evidence to inform policy, have made these contributions possible. The profession continues this social policy mission and leadership with the Grand Challenges initiative. In September 2016, the Brown School of Social Work at Washington University in St. Louis hosted a Grand Challenges Policy Conference in partnership with the AASWSW to specify steps toward positive policy action. Each of the 12 grand challenge networks have developed a set of policy recommendations. These recommendations are now being used to generate and inform policy and civic engagement at local, state, regional, and national levels.\n\nThe Grand Challenges for Social Work offer an interdisciplinary approach to major issues facing our society, on a national level and locally. In Detroit, Tam Perry, PhD, has called for researchers, community members, practitioners, and policymakers to collaborate on making real, sustained changes to benefit the city’s residents.\n\nThe Grand Challenges initiative is also helping to define social work as a profession. Many people outside the field of social work do not realize the breadth of issues that social workers affect. There have been several efforts to help the public better understand the various roles social workers play.\n\nThe Grand Challenges initiative also provides an opportunity to further define the profession through curriculum changes in schools of social work. The University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign has published a paper that “describes the relevance of the GCSWI to professional education and suggests the collective-impact model as a heuristic for professional preparation to collaborate in grand challenge contexts.”\n\nAnd the Grand Challenges initiative has already reached beyond the United States. Social workers in the United Kingdom are considering a similar effort as a way forward for the field of social work there.\n"}
{"id": "23024110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23024110", "title": "Hazing in Greek letter organizations", "text": "Hazing in Greek letter organizations\n\nHazing in Greek letter organizations is defined as any act or set of acts that constitutes hazing and occurs in connection to a fraternity or sorority.\n\nHazing is often cited as one of the most harmful aspects of fraternities and sororities and poses a major threat to their existence, drawing great criticism from educators and administrators . As fraternities and sororities are very diverse in their structures, regulations, governing entities, and memberships, and as hazing can take on many forms, the issue of hazing within these organizations is complex and multifaceted.\n\nWhile most educational institutions include hazing in their disciplinary procedures, definitions of hazing can vary substantially .\n\nThe Fraternal Information & Programming Group (FIPG) defines hazing activities as:\n\nAny action taken or situation created, intentionally, whether on or off fraternity premises, to produce mental or physical discomfort, embarrassment, harassment, or ridicule. Such activities may include but are not limited to the following: use of alcohol, paddling in any form, creation of excessive fatigue, physical and psychological shocks, quests, treasure hunts, scavenger hunts, road trips or any other such activities carried on outside or inside of the confines of the chapter house; wearing of public apparel which is conspicuous and not normally in good taste, engaging in public stunts and buffoonery, morally degrading or humiliating games and activities, and other activities which are not consistent with academic achievement, fraternal law, ritual or policy or the regulations and policies of the educational institution or applicable state law.\nHazing is a crime in 44 states. For example, the Arizona Revised Statutes provides the following definition:\n\n\"Hazing\" means any intentional, knowing or reckless act committed by a student, whether individually or in concert with other persons, against another student, and in which both of the following apply:\n(a) The act was committed in connection with an initiation into, an affiliation with or the maintenance of membership in any organization that is affiliated with an educational institution.\n(b) The act contributes to a substantial risk of potential physical injury, mental harm or degradation or causes physical injury, mental harm or personal degradation.\n\nMost educational institutions have their own definitions of hazing, and many are required to by state statutes.\n\nGenerally, institutions of higher education will have their own definitions of hazing, though they may closely mirror definitions found in their respective state statutes. For example, the University of Arizona provides the following definition of hazing in its “University of Arizona Hazing Policy”, revised October 25, 2001:\n\n\"Hazing\" means any intentional, knowing or reckless act committed by a student, whether individually or in concert with other persons, against another student, and in which both of the following apply:\n(a) The act was committed in connection with an initiation into, an affiliation with or the maintenance of membership in any organization that is affiliated with the University.\n(b) The act contributes to a substantial risk of potential physical injury, mental harm or degradation or causes physical injury, mental harm or personal degradation.\n\nNote that the University of Arizona’s definition of hazing is virtually identical to the definition outlined in the Arizona Revised Statutes.\n\nThe current North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) definition of hazing also includes anything that could turn into hazing. This is the reason that many potentially innocent activities, such as a scavenger hunt, are included under hazing; they could start out as perfectly legal events, but could easily be modified to include some activity that could make it hazing (ex. stealing some of the items on the list or adding heavy drinking before or during). Requiring candidates, or even members as there is \"brother on brother hazing\", to attend events or be at a certain place at a certain time is also hazing. Many also consider the use of the term 'pledge' to be hazing. It should also be noted that things like physical activity will be condoned if there are fraters that are in the US Army or other armed forces present, whereas if those members weren't there it would be considered hazing.(Godwin, 2012)\n\nDue to the nature of hazing, the secretive nature of Greek letter organizations, and the fear of negative repercussions, hazing is largely underreported. Most, if not all, hazing activities take place either during pledge (or “interest”) activities or rituals, which are almost always secretive. Additionally, since many Greek letter organizations, such as those governed by the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) and the National Association of Latino Fraternal Organizations (NALFO), prohibit their pledges (also known as “interests” or “new members”) from revealing their association with their organization until they have been initiated, it becomes increasingly difficult for institutions to reach out to members in anti-hazing efforts. It also becomes virtually impossible for these pledges or interests to reach out for help, especially if they wish to remain members, pledges, or interests of their organizations. However, Cheryl Drout and Christie Corsoro of State University of New York at Fredonia state, \"Hazing, which is officially banned by all national Greek organizations, frequently comes to the public’s attention through the popular news media when the activities become fatal” (Drout & Corsoro, 2003). Unfortunately for multitudes of members of Greek organizations, “Sororities and fraternities have come to be synonymous with elitism, sexual assault, high-risk hazing (initiation ceremonies) and other bad behavior on American university campuses” (Marcus, 2007). \n\nFraternities and sororities are commonly associated with paddling of members, especially new members or pledges, as part of their hazing rituals.\n\nMany educational institutions have developed anti-hazing programs, which encourage alternatives to hazing through the planning of purposeful activities, inform students of how to take action and avoid being a bystander, and provide clear consequences for those students and/or organizations who violate hazing policies . Additionally, hazing has become a central focus of programs designed to help Greek letter organizations become more value congruent through institutionalized standards and expectations .\n\nAttempts at preventing hazing have also targeted Greek letter organizations at the national level. note the important role of culture change within the North American fraternity and sorority movement and even encourage the closure of chapters that consistently partake in illegal and risky activities and pose threats to their local and university communities. propose the creation of a recognized pledge program in which national fraternity and sorority leaders participate, under the recognized supervision of university officials, as well as the yearly evaluation of fraternities and sororities to determine their eligibility for continued recognition and sponsorship. Again, such a proposal is difficult since many NPHC and NALFO organizations, not to mention other organizations not governed by these umbrella organizations, keep their pledge, interest, or new member programs completely secretive.\n\nGreek letter organizations have themselves taken measures to prevent hazing within their member chapters. As such, individual national organizations have taken various measures to ensure the safety of members with regard to hazing. The National Panhellenic Conference, which governs 26 national and international women’s sororities, includes sanctions against both individuals and groups ranging from member/chapter probation to expulsion of offending members or revocation of the chapter’s charter. The organization also runs an anti-hazing hotline for anonymous incident reporting.\n\nSimilarly, the North American Interfraternity Conference released a resolution condemning the practice. In 2010, NIC CEO and President Peter Smithhisler derided the use of hazing as a means of building comradery:\n\n“The intention of the hazer is to create unity, to create trust, to establish a person’s commitment to the organization,” he said. “But in reality, what he is doing is creating a bond among the hazees while eliminating the trust between hazer and hazee, ultimately breaking down the bond of brotherhood.”\nAdditionally, there are individual national Greek Letter Organizations taking the initiative against activities related to hazing. For example, in 2012 Phi Beta Sigma fraternity adopted an anti-hazing campaign to eradicate hazing practices in its individual chapters, providing numerous support resources to effectively combat the practice.\n\nIn an article by Hank Nuwer, a professor of journalism and an author of books on hazing, he compared the hazing rituals of fraternities to cults. Nuwer talks about the aspects of hazing that make the pledge keep coming back to the fraternity and the ramifications of dropping out. Nuwer consulted with a professor in psychology, Margaret Thaler Singer, to get a better understanding of the characteristics of cults to relate those behaviors with fraternity hazing. Nuwer believes that hazing, along with a cult, is a “’systematic’ manipulation and coercion to effect ‘psychological and social influence’” (Nuwer, B7). The first aspect Nuwer wrote about was “’enforced dependency’” (Nuwer, B7). He talked about how the hazing process where fraternities make their pledges stay at the house the whole time, keeping them sleep deprived and cutting them off from daily activities makes them dependent on their fraternity. Even though the \"pledges\" may fall behind in school or lose friends outside of their fraternity, the fraternity convinces the pledge that after the hazing ceases, it will all be worth it. This reassurance keeps the pledges coming back, reliant on the people who are hazing them; relating to the next aspect of \"family\" (Nuwer, B7). Fraternities continually tell their pledges they are joining a family. This aspect appeals to most college freshman that are having a hard time making friends in a different environment. Last, Nuwer discussed how fraternities \"make it hard for their members to leave\" (Nuwer, B7). He says that those who decide not to join after being hazed have already given up so much for the fraternity that they feel alone and may even experience post-traumatic stress. Nuwer gives solutions to hazing in fraternities including stronger consequences for those involved in the hazing and that colleges should become more intertwined with the Greek letter community to learn about hazing and to stop it.\n\nIn a article on the motivations for hazing, she states that such actions come from a desire to prove a state of \"manliness.\" Hazing practices in fraternity life began to appear shortly after the Civil War. Veterans brought the hazing practices of their battalions back with them, adopting such activities into fraternity life. The purpose of hazing was perceived as a way of providing young males an outlet to prove their manliness through rites and trials, showing themselves to be men and not boys. Other hazing practices served to put an individual in his place, reducing his sense of personal omnipotence to \"subsume his individuality into something larger and better than himself\" (Smith, 2015).\n\nThe 1977 film \"Fraternity Row\", set in the 1950s, deals with the subject of hazing at a college fraternity, depicting a number of such practices and culminating with Gregory Harrison as a victim of a hazing ritual that inadvertently takes a fatal turn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32958892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32958892", "title": "Hotchkiss Scholar", "text": "Hotchkiss Scholar\n\nHotchkiss Scholar \nThe highest honor conferred upon a graduating student from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management (LFGSM) is to be named a Hotchkiss Scholar. Hotchkiss Scholars are selected on the basis of outstanding academic achievement and demonstrated commitment to the spirit of excellence. Hotchkiss Scholar eligibility is limited to the top 5% of the graduating class, based on Grade Point Average (GPA) ranking. The Hotchkiss Scholar award was established in 1984 in honor of Dr. Eugene Hotchkiss III, President Emeritus of Lake Forest College and former member of the LFGSM Board of Directors.\n\nHotchkiss Scholars are announced at graduation because the final ranking of the graduating class is not known until after final exams are graded and the final GPA for each graduating student is calculated. Prior to the beginning of the graduation ceremony, the new Hotchkiss Scholars are presented with the Hotchkiss Scholars medallion, which is worn during the ceremony. The new scholars are also announced from the podium during the ceremony.\n\nLake Forest Graduate School of Management hosts an annual recognition dinner to honor the Hotchkiss Scholars. This dinner is usually scheduled for October or November and typically held at the Lake Forest campus. All prior Hotchkiss Scholars are invited to attend. The guest of honor is Dr. Eugene Hotchkiss III, for whom the scholarship is named. This dinner features a cocktail reception, welcoming speech, buffet dinner, featured presentation or panel discussion, and introduction of the new class of Hotchkiss Scholars. The new scholars receive a certificate of recognition and a memento marking the occasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "410424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410424", "title": "House of Wisdom", "text": "House of Wisdom\n\nThe House of Wisdom (; \"Bayt al-Ḥikmah\") refers either to a major Abbasid public academy and intellectual center in Baghdad or to a large private library belonging to the Abbasid Caliphs during the Islamic Golden Age. The House of Wisdom is the subject of an active dispute over its functions and existence as a formal academy, an issue complicated by a lack of physical evidence following the collapse of the Abbasid Caliphate and a reliance on corroboration of literary sources to construct a narrative. The House of Wisdom was founded either as a library for the collections of the Caliph Harun al-Rashid in the late 8th century and later turned into a public academy during the reign of Al-Ma'mun or was a private collection created by Al-Mansur (reign 754–775) to house rare books and collections of poetry in both Arabic and Persian. Regardless, the House of Wisdom existed as a part of the major Translation Movement taking place during the Abbasid Era, translating works from Greek and Syriac to Arabic, but it is unlikely that the House of Wisdom existed as the sole center of such work, as major translation efforts arose in Cairo and Damascus even earlier than the proposed establishment of the House of Wisdom. This translation movement lent momentum to a great deal of original research occurring in the Islamicate world, which had access to texts from Greek, Persian and Indian sources, as opposed to the \"Bookshelf Thesis\" that reduces the contributions of Islamicate scholars to mere translation and preservation of Greek texts.\n\nThe House of Wisdom was made possible by the consistent flow of Arab, Persian, and other scholars of the Islamicate world to Baghdad, owing to the city's position as capital of the Abbasid Caliphate. This is evidenced by the large number of scholars known to have studied in Baghdad between the 8th and 13th centuries, such as Al-Jahiz, Al-Kindi, and Al-Ghazali among others, all of whom would have contributed to a vibrant academic community in Baghdad, producing a great number of notable works, regardless of the existence of a formal academy. The fields to which scholars associated with the House of Wisdom contributed include, but are not limited to philosophy, mathematics, medicine, astronomy, and optics. The early name of the library, \"Khizanat al-Hikma\" (literally, \"Storehouse of Wisdom\"), derives from its function as a place for the preservation of rare books and poetry, a primary function of the House of Wisdom until its destruction. The House of Wisdom and its contents were destroyed in the Siege of Baghdad (1258), leaving very little in the way of archaeological evidence for the House of Wisdom, such that most knowledge about it is derived from the works of contemporary scholars of the era such as Al-Tabari and Ibn al-Nadim.\n\nThroughout the 4th to 7th centuries, scholarly work in the Arabic languages was either newly initiated, or carried on from the Hellenistic period. Centers of learning and of transmission of classical wisdom included colleges such as the School of Nisibis and later the School of Edessa, and the renowned hospital and medical academy of Jundishapur; libraries included the Library of Alexandria and the Imperial Library of Constantinople; and other centers of translation and learning functioned at Merv, Salonika, Nishapur and Ctesiphon situated just south of what was later to become Baghdad.\n\nDuring the Umayyad era, Muawiyah I started to gather a collection of books in Damascus. He then formed a library that were referred to by the name of \"Bayt al-Hikma\". Books written in Greek, Latin, and Persian in the fields of medicine, alchemy, physics, mathematics, astrology and other disciplines were also collected and translated by Muslim scholars at that time. Remarkably, the Umayyads also appropriated paper-making techniques from the Chinese and joined many ancient intellectual centers under their rule, and employed Christian and Persian scholars to both translate works into Arabic, and to develop new knowledge. These were fundamental elements that contributed directly to the flourishing of scholarship in the Arab world.\n\nIn 750, the Abbasid dynasty replaced the Umayyad as the ruling dynasty of the Islamic Empire, and, in 762, the caliph al-Mansur (r. 754 – 775) built Baghdad and made it his capital, instead of Damascus. Baghdad's location and cosmopolitan population made the perfect location for a stable commercial and intellectual center. The Abbasid dynasty had a strong Persian bent, and adopted many practices from the Sassanian Empire – among those, that of translating foreign works, except that now texts were translated into Arabic. For this purpose, al-Mansur founded a palace library, modeled after the Sassanian Imperial Library, and provided economic and political support to the intellectuals working there. He also invited delegations of scholars from India and other places to share their knowledge of mathematics and astronomy with the new Abbasid court.\n\nIn the Abbasid Empire, many foreign works were translated into Arabic from Greek, Chinese, Sanskrit, Persian and Syriac. The Translation Movement gained great momentum during the reign of caliph al-Rashid, who, like his predecessor, was personally interested in scholarship and poetry. Originally the texts concerned mainly medicine, mathematics and astronomy; but, other disciplines, especially philosophy, soon followed. Al-Rashid's library, direct predecessor to the House of Wisdom, was also known as Bayt al-Hikma or, as the historian Al-Qifti called it, Khizanat Kutub al-Hikma (Arabic for \"Storehouse of the Books of Wisdom\").\n\nUnder the sponsorship of caliph al-Ma'mun (r. 813 – 833), economic support of the House of Wisdom and scholarship in general was greatly increased. Furthermore, Abbasid society itself came to understand and appreciate the value of knowledge, and support also came from merchants and the military. It was easy for scholars and translators to make a living and an academic life was a symbol of status; scientific knowledge was considered so valuable that books and ancient texts were sometimes preferred as war booty rather than riches. Indeed, Ptolemy's \"Almagest\" was claimed as a condition for peace by al-Ma'mun after a war between the Abbasids and the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe House of Wisdom was much more than an academic center removed from the broader society. Its experts served several functions in Baghdad. Scholars from the Bayt al-Hikma usually doubled as engineers and architects in major construction projects, kept accurate official calendars, and were public servants. They were also frequently medics and consultants.\n\nAl-Ma'mun was personally involved in the daily life of the House of Wisdom, regularly visiting its scholars and inquiring about their activities. He would also participate in and arbitrate academic debates. Inspired by Aristotle, al-Mamun regularly initiated regular discussion sessions and seminars among experts in \"kalām\". \"Kalām\" is the art of philosophical debate that al-Mamun carried on from his Persian tutor, Ja’far. During debate, scholars would discuss their fundamental Islamic beliefs and doctrines in an open intellectual atmosphere. Furthermore, he would often organize groups of sages from the Bayt al-Hikma into major research projects to satisfy his own intellectual needs. For example, he commissioned the mapping of the world, the confirmation of data from the \"Almagest\" and the deduction of the real size of the Earth (see section on the main activities of the House). He also promoted Egyptology and participated himself in excavations of the pyramids of Giza. Al-Ma’mun built the first astronomical observatories in Baghdad, and he was also the first ruler to fund and monitor the progress of major research projects involving a team of scholars and scientists. His greatest legacy to science is that he was the first ruler to fund \"big science\".\n\nFollowing his predecessors, al-Ma'mun would send expeditions of scholars from the House of Wisdom to collect texts from foreign lands. In fact, one of the directors of the House was sent to Constantinople with this purpose. During this time, Sahl ibn Harun, a Persian poet and astrologer, was the chief librarian of the Bayt al-Hikma. Hunayn ibn Ishaq (809–873) an Arab Nestorian Christian physician and scientist, was the most productive translator producing 116 works for the Arabs. The patron of this foundation was under Caliphe al-Ma'mon. Al-Ma'mun established the House of Wisdom, putting Hunayn ibn Ishaq in charge, who then became the most celebrated translator of Greek texts. As \"Sheikh of the translators\" he was placed in charge of the translation work by the caliph. Hunayn ibn Ishaq translated the entire collection of Greek medical books, including famous pieces by Galen and Hippocrates. The Sabian Thābit ibn Qurra (826–901) also translated great works by Apollonius, Archimedes, Euclid and Ptolemy. Translations of this era were superior to earlier ones, since the new Abbasid scientific tradition required better and better translations, and the emphasis was many times put in incorporating new ideas to the ancient works being translated.\n\nBy the second half of the ninth century al-Ma'mun's Bayt al-Hikma was the greatest repository of books in the world and had become one of the greatest hubs of intellectual activity in the Middle Ages, attracting the most brilliant Arab and Persian minds. The House of Wisdom eventually acquired a reputation as a center of learning, although universities as we know them did not yet exist at this time — knowledge was transmitted directly from teacher to student, without any institutional surrounding. Maktabs soon began to develop in the city from the 9th century on, and in the 11th century, Nizam al-Mulk founded the Al-Nizamiyya of Baghdad, one of the first institutions of higher education in Iraq.\n\nThe House of Wisdom flourished under al-Ma'mun's successors al-Mu'tasim (r. 833 – 842) and his son al-Wathiq (r. 842 – 847), but considerably declined under the reign of al-Mutawakkil (r. 847–861). Although al-Ma'mun, al-Mu'tasim, and al-Wathiq followed the sect of Mu'tazili, which supported mind-broadness and scientific inquiry, al-Mutawakkil endorsed a more literal interpretation of the Qur'an and Hadith. The caliph was not interested in science and moved away from rationalism, seeing the spread of Greek philosophy as anti-Islamic.\n\nOn February 13, 1258, the Mongols entered the city of the caliphs, starting a full week of pillage and destruction.\nThe House of Wisdom included a society of scientists and academics, a translation department and a library that preserved the knowledge acquired by the Abbasids over the centuries. They also researched and studied alchemy, which was later used to create the structure of modern chemistry. Furthermore, linked to it were also astronomical observatories and other major experimental endeavors. Institutionalized by Al-Ma'mun, the academy encouraged the transcription of Greek philosophical and scientific efforts. Additionally, he imported manuscripts of important texts that were not accessible to the Islamic countries from Byzantium to the library. The House of Wisdom was much more than a library, and a considerable amount of original scientific and philosophical work was produced by scholars and intellectuals related to it. This allowed Muslim scholars to verify astronomical information that was handed down from past scholars.\nThe Translation Movement started in this House of Wisdom and lasted for over two centuries. Over a century and a half, primarily Middle Eastern Oriental Syriac Christian scholars translated all scientific and philosophic Greek texts to Arabic language in the House of Wisdom. The translation movement at the House of Wisdom was inaugurated with the translation of Aristotle's \"Topics\". By the time of al-Ma'mun, translators had moved beyond Greek astrological texts, and Greek works were already in their third translations. Authors translated include: Pythagoras, Plato, Aristotle, Hippocrates, Euclid, Plotinus, Galen, Sushruta, Charaka, Aryabhata and Brahmagupta. Many important texts were translated during this movement including a book about the composition of medicinal drugs, a book on this mixing and the properties of simple drugs, and a book on medical matters by Pedanius Dioscorides. These, plus many more translations, helped with the advancements in medicine, agriculture, finance, and engineering.\n\nFurthermore, new discoveries motivated revised translations and commentary correcting or adding to the work of ancient authors. In many cases names and terminology were changed; a prime example of this is the title of Ptolemy's \"Almagest\", which is an Arabic modification of the original name of the work: \"Megale Syntaxis\".\n\nBesides their translations of earlier works and their commentaries on them, scholars at the Bayt al-Hikma produced important original research. For example, the noted mathematician al-Khwarizmi worked in al-Ma'mun's House of Wisdom and is famous for his contributions to the development of algebra. Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi was born around 780 and died around 850. He was known as a mathematician and an astronomer in the House of Wisdom, and is also known for his book \"Kitab al-Jabr\" in which he develops a number of algorithms. The application of the word \"algebra\" to mathematics and the etymology of the word \"algorithm\" can be traced back to al-Khwarizmi — the actual concept of an algorithm dates back before the time of Euclid. The term 'algorithm' is derived from a Latin version of al-Khwarizmi's name which is 'Algorithmus'. He was instrumental in introducing the Arabs to Hindu numerals and algebra so he is known as \"The Father of Algebra\". Additionally, al-Khwarizmi wrote about the astrolabe, sundial, and elaborated on Ptolemy's geometric model. Al-Khwarizmi is also known as the first geographer of Islam with his famous \"Picture of the Earth\" treatise. In \"Picture of the Earth\", he arranged the coordinates of hundreds of cities in the world at that time and gave instructions for drawing a new map of the world. George Sarton, one the most famous historians of science known for his book, \"Introduction to the History of Science\", called the period between 800 and 850 AD \"The Time of al-Khwarizmi\". Besides that, this mathematician is responsible for the introduction of the Hindu decimal system to the Arab world, and through it to Europe. Al-Kindi also made important breakthroughs in cryptanalysis. In al-Khwarizmi's early career, he proposed ideas towards the Hindu astronomical tables known as Sindhind. As a result, Caliph Al-Ma'mun sought al-Khwarizmi out to work on the science of equations.\n\nAbu Yusuf Ya‘qub ibn Ishaq Al-Kindi was also another historical figure that worked at the House of Wisdom. He studied cryptanalysis but he was also a great mathematician. Al-Kindi is the most famous for being the first person to introduce Aristotle’s philosophy to the Arabic people. He fused Aristotle's philosophy with Islamic theology which created an intellectual platform for philosophers and theologians to debate over 400 years. A fellow expert on Aristotle was an East African descent named Abu Uthman al-Jahith who was born in Basra around 776 but he spent most of his life in Baghdad. Al-Ma’mun employed al-Jahith as a personal tutor for his children, but he had to dismiss him because al-Jahith was \"Goggled-Eyed\", i.e., he had wide, staring eyes which made him frightening to look at. Al-Jahith was one of the few Muslim scholars who was deeply concerned with biology. He wrote \"Book of Animals,\" which discusses the way animals adapt to their surroundings, similarly to Aristotle’s \"History of Animals\". In his book, al-Jahith argued that animals like dogs, foxes, and wolves must have descended from a common ancestor because they shared similar characteristics and features such as four legs, fur, tail, and so on.\n\nMūsā ibn Shākir was an astrologer, and a friend of Caliph Harun al-Rashid's son, al-Ma'mun. His sons, collectively known as the Banū Mūsā (Sons of Moses), also contributed with their extensive knowledge of mathematics and astrology. When their father died, al-Ma'mun became their guardian. Between 813 and 833, the three brothers were successful in their works in science, engineering, and patronage. Abū Jaʿfar, Muḥammad ibn Mūsā ibn Shākir (before 803 – February 873), Abū al‐Qāsim, Aḥmad ibn Mūsā ibn Shākir (d. 9th century) and Al-Ḥasan ibn Mūsā ibn Shākir (d. 9th century) are widely known for their Book of Ingenious Devices, which describes about one hundred devices and how to use them. Among these was \"The Instrument that Plays by Itself\", the earliest example of a programmable machine, as well as the Book on Measurement of Plane and Spherical Figures. Mohammad Musa and his brothers Ahmad and Hasan contributed to Baghdad's astronomical observatories under the Abbasid Caliph al-Ma'mun, in addition to the House of Wisdom research. Having shown much potential, the brothers were enrolled in the library and translation center of the House of Wisdom in Baghdad. They began translating ancient Greek into Arabic after quickly mastering the language, as well as paying large sums to obtain manuscripts from the Byzantine Empire for translation. There also made many original contributions to astronomy and physics. Mohammad Musa might have been the first person in history to point to the universality of the laws of physics. In the 10th century, Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen) performed several physical experiments, mainly in optics, achievements still celebrated today.\n\nIn medicine, Hunayn wrote an important treatise on ophthalmology. Other scholars also wrote on smallpox, infections and surgery. Note that these works would later become standard textbooks of medicine during the Renaissance.\n\nUnder al-Mamun's leadership science saw for the first time wide-ranging research projects involving large groups of scholars. In order to check Ptolemy's observations, the caliph ordered the construction of the first astronomical observatory in Baghdad (see Observatories section below). The data provided by Ptolemy was meticulously checked and revised by a highly capable group of geographers, mathematicians and astronomers. Al-Mamun also organized research on the circumference of the Earth and commissioned a geographic project that would result in one of the most detailed world-maps of the time. Some consider these efforts the first examples of large state-funded research projects.\n\nThe creation of the first astronomical observatory in the Islamic world was ordered by caliph al-Mamun in 828 in Baghdad. The construction was directed by scholars from the House of Wisdom: senior astronomer Yahya ibn abi Mansur and the younger Sanad ibn Ali al-Alyahudi. It was located in al-Shammasiyya and was called Maumtahan Observatory. After the first round of observations of Sun, Moon and the planets, a second observatory on Mount Qasioun, near Damascus, was constructed. The results of this endeavor were compiled in a work known as al-Zij al-Mumtahan, which translates as \"The Verified Tables\".\n\nNot only did the Muslims in this era build observatories but soon after in Central Asia, they built a paper mill, which then led to the production of dyes, inks, glues, and even book bindings.\n\nThe existence of the House of Wisdom is presently disputed, as is its form and function. Arabist Dimitri Gutas posits in his 1998 book that \"House of Wisdom\" is a translation error from \"Khizanat al-Hikma\", which he asserts simply means a storehouse, and that there are few sources from the era during the Abbasid Era that mention the House of Wisdom by the name \"Bayt al-Hikma.\" This theory is debatable, owing to the destruction of the Round city of Baghdad and conflicting sources in both academic texts and poetry. It is likely, given the Abbasid Caliphs' patronage of the arts and sciences, that an extensive library existed in Baghdad, and that scholars could have access to such texts, judging by the volume of work produced by scholars centered in Baghdad. Without consistent naming conventions, a physical ruin, or corroborating texts, the phrase \"House of Wisdom\" may just as well have been a metaphor for the larger Academic community in Baghdad rather than a physical academy specializing in translation work.\n\nThis is a list of notable people related to the House of Wisdom and the rise of Arab science.\n\n\nSome other places have also been called \"House of Wisdom\", and should not be confused with Baghdad's Bayt al-Hikma:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38268412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38268412", "title": "Ithaka Harbors", "text": "Ithaka Harbors\n\nIthaka Harbors, Inc. is a US not-for-profit organization whose stated mission is to \"help the academic community use digital technologies to preserve the scholarly record and to advance research and teaching in sustainable ways\". It is the parent company of digital library website JSTOR, the digital preservation service Portico, and the research and consulting group Ithaka S+R. Ithaka was founded in 2003 by Kevin M. Guthrie. Ithaka's revenue was $86 million in 2014, most of it ($69 million) from JSTOR service fees.\n\nJSTOR was founded in 1995 under the direction of current ITHAKA president Kevin M. Guthrie. Guthrie also served as the founding president of ITHAKA in 2004. Both organizations were initially funded by grants from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. The two organizations announced that they would merge in 2009 after years of working together closely. \nThe organizations stated that the merger was \"a natural progression\" and that they would work together to help \"academic institutions use digital technology to enhance scholarship and teaching and reduce system-wide costs through collective action.\"\n\nJSTOR is a major database of academic research materials, with content that includes books, journals, and primary sources. \n\nPortico was created by JSTOR in 2002 as the \"Electronic-Archiving Initiative\". It was transferred to ITHAKA in 2004. Portico operates as a \"'dim' archive for e-journal content\" that stores information from scholarly journals so it cannot be lost, an example being when the part of it housing the \"Graft: Organ and Cell Transplantation\" journal was \"lit up\" and became publicly accessible after access to that journal's website was removed by its publisher. In 2014, Portico generated $5.7 million in revenue.\n\nIthaka S+R is a research and consulting service that releases public research reports and offers consulting services to libraries, publishers, scholarly societies, universities, and other non-profit organizations. Ithaka S+R conducts triennial surveys of faculty members and library directors in the United States. In 2014, Ithaka S+R generated $1.2 million in revenue.\n\nThe same year that Ithaka Harbors obtained \"Portico\", the Library of Congress gave a $3 million NDIIPP grant to the company for it to \"develop, test, and operate one or more electronic archives for electronic journals\", along with providing \"long-term access to those journals\". The endeavor was known as the \"Portico Project\".\n\nThe National Endowment for the Humanities and the Institute of Museum and Library Services named Ithaka Harbors as one of the four recipients of their 2008 Digital Partnership grant awards. The company was chosen because of its \"Protecting Future Access Now: Developing a Prototype Preservation Model for Digital Books\" project, which is meant to be a \"prototype preservation service that will provide a practical model for the preservation of digitized books.\"\n\nIthaka Harbors received federal contract awards in 2010 and 2011. The former was $75,000 given by the US Department of Labor for their \"Archived E-jornal Collections\". A year later, the Department of the Army awarded $17,000 for collection additions of \"books, maps and other publications\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8135830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8135830", "title": "Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund for Medical Research", "text": "Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund for Medical Research\n\nThe Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund for Medical Research (the \"JCC\"), established in 1937, awards the \"Jane Coffin Childs Postdoctoral Fellowship\" for research in the medical and related sciences bearing on cancer. \n\nThe fund was founded on 11 June 1937 by Starling Winston Childs and Alice S Childs in memory of Julia Coffin Childs. Its funds have been of the order of $3m.\n\nCurrently, the Foundation awards 20 to 30 fellowships per year. The fellowship is regarded as one of most prestigious fellowships in US and postdoctoral candidates are awarded with a 3 year support. The researchers and the research labs where the fellows conduct their projects have made major scientific contributions in areas such as the advancement of understanding the human genome, and the application of genetic approaches to understanding pathway regulation and stem cell activation. Nearly two dozen individuals associated with the Fund — as grantees, fellows and advisors — have won Nobel prizes in physiology, medicine and chemistry. \n\nOver the years the Fund has attracted a distinguished scientists for its Board of Scientific Advisers. To date 16 of the former Board members have earned the Nobel Prize. \n\nMembers of the board of scientific advisors have included:\n\n\nNotable fellows have included:\nThe Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund for Medical Research is dedicated to providing financial support to offer highly qualified scientists the opportunity to pursue research into the causes and origins of cancer.\nThe goal of the Fund is to provide support to the brightest individual scientists pursuing careers in cancer research while promoting and emphasizing the value and contribution of the individual in keeping with the spirit of the conception of the Fund.\n\nNotable fellows have included:\n\nOther Fellows\nhttp://www.jccfund.org/about-fund/fellows?page=1\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34160386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34160386", "title": "Joanna Hartman", "text": "Joanna Hartman\n\nJoanna Evans (also Hartman) is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\", played by Emma Harrison. Joanna was introduced as the younger half-sister of established character, Annalise Hartman (Kimberley Davies). She made her first on screen appearance on 26 May 1995. Following Davies' departure from \"Neighbours\" in 1996, rumours began that Harrison's character would be written out of the show. However, the actress signed a new long-term contract with \"Neighbours\" a few months later. In February 1997, producers decided to write Joanna out of the show. A reporter for the \"Daily Mirror\" said Harrison was written out due to rows with the producers over her poor acting. Joanna departed on screen on 15 April 1997. In 2005, Harrison was invited to return to \"Neighbours\" for the 20th anniversary episode, but she did not appear.\n\nJoanna comes to Erinsborough to meet Annalise and introduce her to their father, Tony (Michael Carman). The sisters display different personalities; Annalise is high maintenance, while Joanna is uncomplicated and down to earth. The author of \"Neighbours: the first 10 years\" said Joanna was vacuous and branded her as bright as a glowworm. Writers for the \"Daily Mirror\" called her glamorous and said she was as just as stunning as her sister. Joanna and Annalise set up their own public relations company, but their first client turns out to be a con man. Joanna's next job was as an aerobics instructor. She followed this with a stint as co-owner of the Chez Chez bar. Joanna has a brief relationship with her sister's ex-fiancé, Mark Gottlieb (Bruce Samazan), before marrying Rob Evans (Graham Harvey). Joanna splits from Rob for a short time when she realises their marriage is loveless, but she decides to leave Erinsborough to reunite with him.\n\nWhen Harrison auditioned for a role on \"Neighbours\", she was unaware the character she was reading for was Annalise Hartman's (Kimberley Davies) long lost sister, Joanna. Harrison told the \"Daily Mirror\", \"I was thrilled – and doubly excited when I read the script that had me stealing her TV boyfriend. That was a real bonus.\" The character of Joanna was Harrison's first major television role, following a successful modelling career. She relocated from Queensland to Melbourne for the part. Joanna was introduced as a replacement for Davies' character, but Harrison said she was determined \"not to become a Kimberley clone.\" The actress revealed it took ten months for her to feel comfortable in her new role and she said \"When you start in a show like this, where everyone is very busy, you have to make your mark quickly. It's a case of sink or swim.\" Following Davies' departure from the show, rumours circulated that Harrison and her character would be written out of the show. However, the actress signed a new long-term contract with \"Neighbours\".\n\nIn February 1997, producers told Harrison they were writing her out of \"Neighbours\". Chris Hughes of the \"Daily Mirror\" reported Harrison was written out due to rows with the producers, who claimed her acting was not good enough. A show inside told Hughes, \"She was called in to see the bosses and told that her acting was bad. They've always been harsh on models, but she had little ability and the role went to her head. When she started it was suggested she take acting lessons but after a while she stopped. She had decided she didn't need them any more. A lot of us felt she had become a prima donna.\" In 2005, Harrison was invited back to \"Neighbours\" for the 20th anniversary episode, but she did not appear.\n\nJoanna is the daughter of Caitlin and Tony \"Tarquin\" Hartman (Michael Carman). She grew up in Yallingup. Joanna is made aware of her half-sister, Annalise, by Fiona Hartman (Suzanne Dudley) and she decides to go to Erinsborough to meet her. The BBC said the sister's have very different personalities. Joanna is \"uncomplicated\", while Annalise is high maintenance. Joanna is also \"down to earth\" and Annalise becomes jealous of her sister's stable home life. Joanna was more accepting of their father's job as a female impersonator, but Annalise became embarrassed by it. Of Joanna's personality, Josephine Monore, author of \"Neighbours: the first 10 years\", said \"Jo was even more vacuous than her blond looks would have you stereotype her. She was dizzy, forgetful and about as bright as a glowworm.\" Fiona Parker of the \"Daily Mirror\" said Joanna was \"glamorous\", while a colleague called her a siren and said she was as \"equally-stunning\" as her sister. Tony Johnston, author of \"Neighbours: 20 years of Ramsay Street\", said Joanna was so \"chirpy and over-helpful\" that she drove everyone crazy. In July 1996, Harrison commented on Joanna's development saying \"When I started with \"Neighbours\" I came in as the little confused sister of Annalise but now Joanna Hartman is developing as a solid confident character.\" She also said that she and Joanna were complete opposites. Harrison called her character \"quite immature\" and obsessed with men.\n\nWhen Tony gives Joanna and Annalise some money, the sisters decide to set up their own public relations company from their living room. Joanna and Annalise decide to combine their names and they call the company Anna-Jo Promotions. \"Inside Soap\" said the name was the best thing about the company. While Joanna has some experience promoting her father's act, Annalise does not know a lot about PR. However, the girls do attract a client, Roger Reynolds (Roger O'Connor), who asks Joanna and Annalise to get him some publicity for his magazine publishing business. Unbeknownst to the girls, Roger is a con man and he manages to cheat them out of everything they have. \"Inside Soap\" commented on the situation saying, \"An experienced crook like Reynolds can sniff out easy targets like the Hartman sisters a mile away.\" The police tell the girls what has happened and they go undercover to catch Roger. After Anna-Jo Promotions comes to an end, Joanna takes a job as an aerobics instructor. She is offered the position by the owner of the local fitness centre, Bruce Styles (Paul El Deir), who is impressed by her efforts. Joanna later becomes a co-owner of Chez Chez with Cheryl Stark (Caroline Gillmer), a role which prompted a writer for the \"Daily Record\" to comment \"Joanna is thrilled to be part of Chez Chez - but proves to be anything but a silent partner.\"\n\nJoanna begins dating Mark Gottlieb (Bruce Samazan), which displeases Annalise as she was once engaged to him. Joanna becomes obsessed with Mark and he is forced to admit that their relationship is only a fling. Joanna eventually realises that the relationship is going nowhere and ends it. Joanna meets Rob Evans (Graham Harvey), a rich businessman, at an aerobics class. Rob sends Joanna a note and they get to know each other better, they then begin a relationship. Of Joanna and Rob, Harrison told Amanda Ruben of \"TV Week\" \"It all happens very quickly, but Joanna is really drawn to Rob's energy and she thinks he's gorgeous. I think it's true love. She really does fall head over heels.\" Joanna considers leaving Australia to work with her father in Asia, but when she realises she is in love with Rob, she turns the job down. Joanna worries about revealing her true feelings to Rob because she ruined her relationship with Mark by moving too quickly. She decides to tell him about the job offer to see if he feels the same way about her, but she starts to feel like she has waited for too long for a reply. A writer for \"Inside Soap\" said \"Jo's really shocked at Rob's indifference to the thought of her leaving and, in typical Jo style, she breaks down and blurts out all her feelings.\"\n\nJoanna flees from Rob in tears and prepares to leave and join her father abroad, but she then finds Rob on her doorstep begging for her hand in marriage. Joanna accepts his proposal and she shocks everyone when she reveals she is engaged to Rob after only knowing him for a short time. Joanna's visions of a \"rosy future\" are shattered when Rob reveals that he has been hiding something from her for a while. He explains that he had a vasectomy and cannot have children. Despite setting her heart on having a family, Joanna stays with Rob and their wedding is \"a beautiful, lavish affair\", though it does not go without a hitch. The gazebo that is being built for the ceremony is not finished in time and Joanna is not pleased with the dress Danni Stark (Eliza Szonert) has made for her. It is too revealing and not what Joanna wants at all. Joanna and Rob are married on 21 June 1996. Joanna leaves Rob when she realises their marriage is loveless, but she later decides to reunite with him.\n\nJoanna arrives in Erinsborough to meet Annalise Hartman. She reveals they are half-sisters, but Annalise does not believe her. She eventually realises Joanna is telling the truth and she tries to accept her. Annalise cancels her trip overseas to stay and get to know her sister. Joanna realises Annalise has not met their father, Tony, and she arranges for them to meet. Annalise is shocked that Tony is a female impersonator called \"Tarquin Sequin\" and Joanna becomes upset when her sister cannot see past her father's job. She begs Annalise to give him a chance, but Annalise is set against it as Tony had humiliated her in public. Joanna becomes desperate to get them to reconcile, as Tony plans to leave. She succeeds and Annalise makes friends with her father. Joanna then leaves with Tony.\n\nJoanna later returns to Erinsborough to spend more time with Annalise. The sisters become close and after reading an article Libby Kennedy (Kym Valentine) has written about their father, the girls get revenge on her. Joanna and Annalise go into business together and call their company Anna-Jo Promotions. Joanna moves into Number 24 and gets off on the wrong foot with landlady Marlene Kratz (Moya O'Sullivan) and Cody Willis (Peta Brady). Joanna and Annalise's first client turns out to be a criminal and the police ask them to go undercover to catch him. Joanna begins dating Annalise's ex-fiancé, Mark Gottlieb. Joanna worries Mark still has feelings for Annalise, but he convinces her she is the only girl he is interested in. Joanna begins to get obsessed with Mark and her friends became worried for her. When Mark tells her their relationship is just a fling, Joanna breaks down and realises she needs help.\n\nAfter her relationship with Sam Kratz (Richard Grieve) ends, Annalise leaves Erinsborough for good. Joanna is sad when she is left behind, but she helps Stonefish Rebecchi (Anthony Engelman) get into a Performance Arts course at University and finds employment at the gym as an aerobics instructor. Joanna meets Rob Evans and he employs her as his personal trainer. They begin a relationship and Rob proposes to Joanna. Joanna asks Danni Stark to make her wedding dress, but she is horrified at the result. Joanna becomes difficult and unpleasant to be around and she later realises she has let the wedding plans get on top of her. She asks Danni to make her another dress and she is delighted when Rob arranges for Tony to return for the wedding. Following the wedding, Joanna becomes disappointed in married life. She dislikes Rob going away on business all the time and she decides to become a silent partner in Chez Chez. Rob returns and tells Joanna they are moving to Europe because of his job. Joanna says goodbye to her friends and leaves.\n\nJoanna returns a few months later and announces she and Rob have broken up. Luke Handley (Bernard Curry) allows Joanna to move into Number 30. She goes on a date with Malcolm Kennedy (Benjamin McNair), but he realises they have nothing in common and he tells her he is not interested in pursuing a relationship with her. Lou Carpenter (Tom Oliver) purchases Joanna's shares in Chez Chez and Joanna decides to invest in Debbie Martin's (Marnie Reece-Wilmore) coffee shop. Joanna also turns her attentions to Lou's used car business. Joanna and Rob's love letters are made public and Joanna decides to contact her husband. The next day, Joanna leaves Erinsborough to reunite with Rob.\n\nFor her portrayal of Joanna, Harrison earned a nomination for Most Popular New Talent at the 1996 Logie Awards. At the \"Inside Soap\" Awards, Harrison was nominated for Best Newcomer, while Joanna was nominated for Biggest Bitch in Soap. The BBC said Joanna's most notable moment was \"Her marriage to Rob Evans.\" Matthew Clifton, writing for entertainment website Heckler Spray, included Joanna in his list of \"The Best Ever Mid-90s \"Neighbours\" Characters\". He said \"Annalise's mental, annoying sister had really strange facial features and once lived under her desk in Lassiters, like George Costanza in \"Seinfeld\".\" Sue Malins of the \"Daily Mirror\" said Annalise and her \"bubbly\" sister Joanna turned up the temperature by having relationships with the same man. Andrew Mercado branded Joanna \"a blonde-bombshell-in-training.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7957347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957347", "title": "John Eliot (psychologist)", "text": "John Eliot (psychologist)\n\nJohn Eliot, Ph.D is a professor who teaches Organizational and Performance Psychology, Leadership, and Ethics. Currently at Texas A&M University, he has also held appointments at the University of Virginia, Rice University, SMU's Cox School of Business, and Stanford. His courses are perennial campus favorites.\n\nEliot is also a bestselling author, with top titles including \"Overachievement\" and \"Help the Helper\". Using field research and case studies, he debunks some of the misunderstandings that pop-psychology creates regarding tools such as goal setting and stress management. He advocates that success generally stems from developing sound and consistent philosophies, self-evaluation measures, perspective, confidence, and trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "10933055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10933055", "title": "Juliane Köhler", "text": "Juliane Köhler\n\nJuliane Köhler (born 6 August 1965) is a German theatre, television and film actress.\n\nKöhler was born in Göttingen to a puppeteer. During 1985–88 she studied under Uta Hagen in New York City and attended the HB acting studio. She also received ballet instruction in Munich. Since her first appearance at Hanover's Lower Saxon State Theatre in 1988, she has regularly appeared in German theatre productions. She performed in an ensemble cast of the Bavarian State Theatre during 1993–97. She left the company because her filming of \"Aimée & Jaguar\" interfered with rehearsals for a production of \"Das Käthchen von Heilbronn\". She later returned to Munich to participate with the Munich Kammerspiele.\n\nShe has starred in the 1999 film \"Aimée & Jaguar\" (as Lilly Wust, or Aimée); the 2001 film \"Nowhere in Africa\" (as Jettel Redlich); the 2004 film \"Downfall\" (as Eva Braun); the 2008 film \"Haber\" as Clara, the wife of Fritz Shimon Haber; Christina in \"Eden Is West\" (2009) and starred in \"Two Lives\" (2012) as Katrine Evensen Myrdal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4258329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4258329", "title": "King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi", "text": "King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi\n\nKing Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi (KMUTT, \n"}
{"id": "27489614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27489614", "title": "Koofers", "text": "Koofers\n\nKoofers is a private company, founded in 2008 and headquartered in Reston, VA (a part of the Washington, DC metropolitan area). Koofers is an interactive community that serves the academic needs of college students through information sharing. All college students have access to the service by creating an account with their e-mail address. Many of Koofers' services span the entire academic calendar from course selection through final exams, and include interactive flashcards, course & instructor ratings, professors’ grading histories, and an online library for sharing past exams & study materials.\n\nKoofers.com is a free service to all students and faculty at colleges and universities worldwide.\n\nThe term “koofer” originated in the 1940s at Bluefield College, a former extension branch of Virginia Tech, and was likely derived from the word “coffer” (synonym for a strongbox). It is often used as a verb in such constructions as “to coofer a problem,” also sometimes spelled “koofer.” A student from Bluefield College transferred to the Virginia Tech and first introduced the term there. The term then began to refer to tests or homework completed in an earlier course that is made available to students taking the course later, and used for studying or preparing.\n\nKoofers.com took it a step further and re-branded the term “koofers” to refer to all previously used/administered college-level, academic information or data that can help students with their courses (i.e. exams, study guides, ratings, grade distributions, etc.).\n\nKoofers.com was created in 2006 by [then] Virginia Tech students Michael Rihani and Patrick Gartlan, along with Virginia Tech alumnus Glynn LoPresti. Their vision was to enable students to make the, relatively opaque, process of class and teacher selection fully transparent, by providing grading histories and professor reviews to help students shape their class schedules, based on their individual needs and learning styles (e.g., “I am fine with exams, but I hate teachers who give tons of quizzes”).\n\nThe reaction from its alpha deployment at Virginia Tech, coupled with positive feedback from a quick pilot during the last week of a Spring term at the University of Maryland, lead to a nationwide launch in the Fall of 2009. Today Koofers.com continues to launch at more higher-education schools and grow its products and services each semester.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53554072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53554072", "title": "Korean Mathematical Olympiad", "text": "Korean Mathematical Olympiad\n\nThe Korean Mathematical Olympiad is a Mathematical Olympiad held by the Korean Mathematical Society (KMS) in Republic of Korea.\n\nIn 1988, only high school students were tested and middle school students were supposed to take the 'high school exam'. From the 11th exam, the middle school students' test was introduced (JKMO, Junior Korean Mathematical Olympiad). In the 53rd International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO), the Korean delegation won 209 out of 252 out of the total score and 6 gold medals and ranked the first place for the first time in history. From then, Korean mathematicians have made outstanding achievements in advanced math research and International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nIn order to obtain excellent grades in the International Mathematics Olympiad, the Korean Mathematical Society holds the Korean Mathematical Olympiad, and through the operation of the seasonal school, KMS will discover gifted students and educate them to contribute the development of mathematics, science, and engineering in Korea.\n\nThe primary test, usually called PKMO, is held between May and June. The current test consists of twenty multiple-choice questions, and students have to take the test in 4 hours and 30 minutes. The trend is to present five problems from each subject, which are number theory, geometry, algebra, and combinatorics. The awards are divided into regional and national awards, and they are divided into honorable mention, bronze award, silver award, and gold award. To take the second test, students must receive the bronze award or higher.\n\nStudents who have a good score in PKMO can have the opportunity to attend in the summer school. It is held between July and August, and the students sleep together for 12 days and take lectures.\n\nStudents who have completed Summer School are subjected to the Summer Communication Lecture. They have weekly online training and performance assessments.\n\nThe secondary test is composed of 8 questions with a narrative type. It is usually held between November and December. The test is divided in morning and afternoon time and 4 problems are given each period with a time limit of 3 hours. The trend is to present two problems from number theory, geometry, algebra, and combinatorics each. Local awards are not awarded separately and are divided into honorable mention, bronze award, silver award, and gold award.\n\nStudents who have a good grade in the second test is entitled to attend winter school. It is progressed for 2 weeks in early January. Every weekend, there is a Winter School Mock Examination which is similar to FKMO. It is reflected in the selection of the national team. On the days without exams, there is a professor’s lecture in morning, assistant’s problem-solving in the noon, and self-study in evening. If a student gets enough grades in the winter school mock examination, he or she will be exempted for PKMO next year.\n\nStudents who have completed Winter School are subjected to the Spring Communication Lecture for 6 weeks. They have weekly online training and performance assessments.\n\nAPMO is held in March. Winter School Participants are subjected to take the test. There are 5 problems in the exam, and the awards are divided into honorable mention, bronze award, silver award, and gold award. Only up to 10 people can get an award in this exam. \n\nThe students who have won higher than the bronze prize in the High School Level Secondary Test or those who have completed the Middle School Level Winter School are entitled to take FKMO. The exam consists of 6 questions in a narrative form. It is taken for two days at the end of March, and each day you are required to solve 3 problems in 4 hours and 30 minutes. Awards are divided into Grand Prize, Excellence Prize, and Encouragement Prize, and 13 people are selected as representative candidates. Six students are selected from the candidates to represent Korea in the IMO.\n\nSince 2017, KMO has been divided into two parts: Gauss Part and Euler Part. The Gauss Part is open to all students under the age of 20 and the Euler Part is available for high school students other than science high school students.\n\nAbout 12 to 13 students are selected based on the grades obtained by multiplying the grades of five tests (KMO second test, Romanian Master of Mathematics, winter school mock test, APMO, and KMO final exam) by the weights set by the Korea Math Olympiad Committee. IMO mock test is conducted for these 12 students. Six finalists will be selected by the Korea Mathematics Olympiad Committee based on the results of combining the results of the tests held before and the results of this IMO mock test. The final candidates and the target students will perform the weekend training for about 5 weeks in May, and the final representative student will hold the intensive training before the participation in IMO, which is held from June to July.\n\n"}
{"id": "21977993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21977993", "title": "Lawrence F. Katz", "text": "Lawrence F. Katz\n\nLawrence Francis Katz (born 1959) is Elisabeth Allison Professor of Economics at Harvard University and a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research.\n\nHe graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1981 and earned his Ph.D. in Economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985.\n\nHe served as the chief economist at the U.S. Department of Labor from 1993 to 1994 under Robert Reich, Bill Clinton’s then Secretary of Labor.\n\nAlong with fellow Harvard colleague Claudia Goldin, who is a \"personal as well as research partner\", Katz wrote \"The Race Between Education and Technology\" in 2008, which argued that the United States became the world’s richest nation thanks to its schools. It was praised as \"a monumental achievement that supplies a unified framework for interpreting how the demand and supply of human capital have shaped the distribution of earnings in the U.S. labor market over the twentieth century\", and Alan Krueger of Princeton University said that it \"represent[ed] the best of what economics has to offer\".\n\nKatz has been editor of the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" since 1991. He also serves as the Principal Investigator for the long-term evaluation of the \"Moving to Opportunity\", a randomized housing mobility experiment.\n\nHe is the co-Scientific Director of J-PAL North America, past President of the Society of Labor Economists, and has been elected a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Econometric Society, and the Society of Labor Economists. Katz serves on the Panel of Economic Advisers of the Congressional Budget Office as well as on the Boards of the Russell Sage Foundation and the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation.\n"}
{"id": "53840641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53840641", "title": "Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai", "text": "Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai\n\nManipal Academy of Higher Education,Manipal- Dubai Campus previously known as Manipal University (MU), Dubai is a branch campus of Manipal University, India, one of the largest private universities in the country enrolling over 35,000 students across disciplines. Manipal University, Dubai established its presence in UAE in the year 2000 and currently enrolls over 2000 students from over 40 nations across the globe.\n\nSince it is a branch campus it awards the same degree as the Indian campus\n\nThe campus is located in Dubai International Academic City. Manipal Academy of Higher Education Dubai’s campus, that spreads over 850,000 sq ft in Dubai International Academic City (DIAC), houses a sprawling library, laboratories in Engineering, Biotechnology and Information Technology, cafeteria, indoor & outdoor sporting facilities and studios & workshops for programmes in Media & Communications & Interior Design\n\nThe University offers a variety of disciplines to pursue, from undergraduate to post graduate programmes in Engineering & Information Technology, Management, Bio Technology, Interior Design & Architecture and Media & Communication to its students. Around 36 programmes are offered across 5 disciplines\n\nThe university has five schools in total all of which are affiliated with their respective institutes back in the main campus\n\nDepartments:\n\n\nVarious student-led activities happen at the campus that includes students from various other universities and also students from the different schools. Carnival, an annual cultural fest showcases music, dance, fashion, debating, quiz, painting, and photography. Technovanza is an inter-university technical fest organised by the School of Engineering at Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai. Students get an opportunity to improve their technical skill and also showcase their talent in the field of science and technology.\nThe school of business organizes Genesis an event where the business students organize business related activities where students can showcase their business related talents. \n\nOne of the notable student achievements is that of the student team who won the Sustainable Campus Initiative jointly launched by the Emirates Environment Agency Abu Dhabi (EAD) and Borouge in 2014. The goal of the initiative is to enable university students in the UAE to take better responsibility for their ecological footprint on their campuses and extending that into the community.\n\nThe University is known to host several program related clubs such as the Student Chapter of IEEE (Institute of Electronics & Electrical Engineers), SAE (Society of Automobile Engineers), ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air conditioning Engineers), ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers), CIMA (Charted Institute of Management Accountants, ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) etc\n\nIn the year 2014, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai signed an agreement which will allow students to gain CIMA's global certification and title alongside their graduation degree\n\nManipal Academy of Higher Education, Dubai provides a University Research fund to which faculty members can apply for grants and can partake of to follow their research interests. There is a research committee that constantly monitors the progress of research projects and guides the faculty on the various improvements that can be done to enhance the research outcome. National/International conferences are organised every year to provide a platform for researchers to share their research findings and to help in the teaching and learning process\n\n"}
{"id": "34126461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34126461", "title": "Marston Hall", "text": "Marston Hall\n\nMarston Hall is an academic building on the campus of the University of Massachusetts Amherst. It houses the Dean of Engineering and parts of the Departments of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, and Electrical and Computer Engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "6233014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6233014", "title": "Neutral buoyancy", "text": "Neutral buoyancy\n\nNeutral buoyancy is a condition in which a physical body's average density is equal to the density of the fluid in which it is immersed. The buoyancy offsets the force of gravity that would otherwise cause the object to sink (if the body's density is greater than the density of the fluid in which it is immersed) or rise (if it's less). An object that has neutral buoyancy will neither sink nor rise.\nIn scuba diving, the ability to maintain neutral buoyancy through controlled breathing, accurate weighting, and management of the buoyancy compensator is an important skill. A scuba diver maintains neutral buoyancy by continuous correction, usually by controlled breathing, as neutral buoyancy is an unstable condition for a compressible object in a liquid.\n\nThe mathematician Archimedes discovered much of how buoyancy works more than 2000 years ago. In his research, Archimedes discovered that an object is buoyed up by a force equal to the weight of the water displaced by the object. In other words, an inflatable boat that displaces 100 pounds (45 kilograms) of water is buoyed up by that same weight of support. An object that floats in the water is known as being \"positively\" buoyant. An object that sinks to the bottom is \"negatively\" buoyant, while an object that hovers at the same level in the water is \"neutrally\" buoyant. Scientists later discovered ways to manipulate buoyancy and developed equipment such as the life jacket, which is filled with compressed air and helps to lower a person's average density, assisting in floating and swimming, as well as certain diving equipment (including submarines and submersibles) which have air chambers similar to swim bladders to regulate depth.\n\nBuoyancy is important in a large number of fields. Boats, ships and seaplanes are engineered in a way that ensures that they remain afloat. Submarines have controllable buoyancy to make them submerse and rise on demand. Many objects were developed with buoyancy in mind, such as life preservers and pontoons.\n\nBuoyancy is essential to most water sports. Many swimmers know that there are easy ways to float at the surface, such as lying on one's back or holding a full breath. Buoyancy becomes noticeable when a swimmer tries to dive to the bottom of the pool, which can take effort. Scuba divers work with many buoyancy issues, as divers must know how to float, hover and sink in the water. Scuba divers often wear lead weights to counteract the positive buoyancy of their bodies and gear.\n\nNeutral buoyancy is used extensively in training astronauts in preparation for working in the microgravity environment of space. NASA and the Russian space program maintain facilities in which suited astronaut trainees interact with mock-up space hardware, with the assistance of scuba divers. At the University of Maryland's Space Systems Laboratory, a neutral buoyancy tank is similarly used to evaluate the performance of prototype space robots.\n\nWhen neutral buoyancy is taking place, it appears as though the object/substance is floating in the middle of the fluid, or somewhere in between the bottom and the surface.\n\nA fish's swim bladder controls buoyancy by adjusting the amount of gas in the swim bladder, allowing it to achieve neutral buoyancy at different depths. When a fish's overall density becomes higher or lower than the surrounding water due volume change of the swim bladder following ascent or descent, it can correct this difference over time by a physiological process involving controlled absorption and elimination of gases via the blood circulation, the gills, and a gland adjacent to the swim bladder.\n\nThe human brain exhibits approximately neutral buoyancy as a result of its suspension in cerebrospinal fluid. The actual mass of the human brain is about 1400 grams; however the net weight of the brain suspended in the CSF is equivalent to a mass of 25 grams. The brain therefore exists in nearly neutral buoyancy, which allows the brain to maintain its density without being impaired by its own weight, which would cut off blood supply and kill neurons in the lower sections.\n\n"}
{"id": "7654277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7654277", "title": "Nihonjin gakkō", "text": "Nihonjin gakkō\n\n, also called Japanese school, is a full-day school outside Japan for native speakers of Japanese. It is an expatriate school designed for children whose parents are working on diplomatic, business, or education missions overseas and have plans to repatriate to Japan.\n\nThe schools offer exactly the same curriculum used in public elementary and middle schools in Japan, so when the students go back to Japan, they will not fall behind in the class. Some schools accept Japanese citizens only; others welcome Japanese speaking students regardless of citizenship.\n\nThey are accredited by Japan's Ministry of education and science and receive funding from the Japanese government. Every school has teachers transferred from Japan on a two- to three-year assignment. They hire as Japanese-speaking teachers, English and other language instructors, administrative assistants, gardeners, janitors and security guards. There were 85 schools worldwide as of April 2006, and all of these schools provide English classes in the primary education.\n\n\"Nihonjin gakkō\" serve elementary school and junior high school. One \"nihonjin gakkō\", Shanghai Japanese School, has a senior high school program.\n\nSchools that partially offer the nihonjin gakkō's curriculum after school hours or on weekends are sometimes called Japanese Schools, too, but strictly speaking they are categorized as \"hoshū jugyō kō\" or \"hoshūkō\", a supplementary school.\n\nSome of the \"nihonjin gakkō\" in Asia have a long history, originally established as public schools in the Japan-occupied territories in Thailand, Philippines, and Taiwan.\n\nAs Japan recovered after World War II, increased numbers of Japanese international schools serving elementary and junior high school levels opened around the world. The first postwar Japanese overseas school was the Japanese School of Bangkok, which opened in 1956.\nThe Ministry of Education of Japan, as of 1985, encouraged the development of \"nihonjin gakkō\", in developing countries, while it encouraged the opening of \"hoshū jugyō kō\", or part-time supplementary schools, in developed countries. However, some Japanese parents in developed countries, in addition to those in developing countries, campaigned for the opening of \"nihonjin gakkō\" in developed countries due to concern about the education of their children.\n\nIn 1971, there were 22 \"nihonjin gakkō\" worldwide. During the postwar rapid economic growth in 1950s to early 1970s and Japanese asset price bubble in 1980s, the country gained economic power and many sogo shoshas and major industries sent their employees all over the world. That was when many \"nihonjin gakko\" were established to educate their children in Asia, Europe, Middle East, North, Central and South America. The number of \"nihonjin gakkō\" increased to 80 in 1986 with the opening of Japanese schools in Barcelona and Melbourne. As of May of that year 968 teachers originating in Japan were teaching at these Japanese schools worldwide. That month 15,811 students were enrolled in those schools. The number of \"nihonjin gakkō\" increased to 82 by 1987.\n\nIn the early 1980s, 40% of Japanese national children living in Europe attended \"nihonjin gakkō\", while almost 95% of Japanese national children living abroad in Asia attended \"nihonjin gakkō\".\n\nMany Japanese parents abroad sent their children to Japan to attend high school after they completed the junior high school abroad, or leaving the children behind, so they could become accustomed to the difficult Japanese university entrance systems. Toshio Iwasaki, the editor of the \"Journal of Japanese Trade & Industry\", stated that this reason inhibited the development of Japanese senior high schools in other countries. The first overseas international schools that served the senior high school level were the Rikkyo School in England, gaining senior high school level classes after 1975, and the \"Lycée Seijo\" in France, which opened in 1986. By 1991 Japanese international senior high schools were in operation in the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Germany, Denmark, and Ireland.\n\nBy 1991 many overseas Japanese high schools were accepting students who were resident in Japan, and some wealthier families in Japan chose to send their children to Japanese schools abroad instead of Japanese schools in Japan.\n\nWhile Japan was experiencing a major recession called the Lost Decade in the 1990s, so were \"nihonjin gakkō\". Many of them were closed due to a dramatic decrease in enrollment.\n\nWith its rapidly growing economy, China is an exception. Schools in Beijing, Shanghai and have been expanding and new schools had founded in Dalian, Guangzhou, Tianjin, Qingdao, Suzhou since 1991.\n\nBy 2004 there were 83 Japanese day schools in 50 countries.\n\n\"Nihonjin gakkō\" use Japanese as their language of instruction. The curriculum is approved by the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) so that students may easily adjust upon returning to Japan. For foreign language classes, each school usually teaches English and, if different, a major local language of the country. Most \"nihonjin gakkō\" do not admit non-Japanese national students. This practice differs from those of American and British international schools, which do admit students of other nationalities. They usually use the Japanese academic calendar instead of those of their host countries.\n\nAs of 2005-2007 Japanese national parents residing in the United States and Europe, as well as other industrialized and developed regions, generally prefer local schools over \"nihonjin gakkō\", while Japanese parents in Asia and the Middle East prefer \"nihonjin gakkō\".\n\nIn 2003 11,579 Japanese students living in Asia (outside Japan) attended full-time Japanese schools, making up more than 70% of the Japanese students in Asia. In Oceania 194 Japanese pupils attended full-time Japanese schools, making up 7.7% of the total Japanese students in Oceania. In North America there were 502 students at full-time Japanese schools, making up 2.4% of Japanese pupils on that continent. As of 2007 there were a total of three \"nihonjin gakkō\" on the U.S. Mainland recognized by MEXT.\n\nSince the early 1990s more parents have chosen a local school or an international school over a \"nihonjin gakkō\".\n\nNihonjin gakkos tend to be in the following types of areas in the world:\n\nAs of October 2006:\n\n\n\n\nMinistry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology classifies the following as overseas branches of Japanese private schools, or \"shiritsu zaigai kyōiku shisetsu\" (): They are not operated by Japanese associations and so are not \"nihonjin gakkō\".\n\nDay schools neither authorized nor designated by MEXT; therefore they are not \"nihonjin gakkō\" nor are they \"shiritsu zaigai kyōiku shisetsu\"\n\n\n\n\n\nAfrica:\n\nAsia (excluding Middle East):\n\nMiddle East (excluding Africa):\n\nEurope:\n\nSouth America:\n\n"}
{"id": "1703008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703008", "title": "Oliver Hirschbiegel", "text": "Oliver Hirschbiegel\n\nOliver Hirschbiegel (born 29 December 1957) is a German film director. His works include \"Das Experiment\" and the Oscar-nominated \"Downfall\".\n\nHirschbiegel was born in Hamburg, Germany. A Waldorf graduate, Hirschbiegel studied painting and graphic arts, later film, at the Hamburg University of Fine Arts. In 1986, he directed his first film, the made-for-TV movie \"Das Go! Projekt\", the script for which he had written himself. He became a successful TV director, directing numerous episodes of the \"Tatort\" and \"Kommissar Rex\" series. His first theatrical release was the well-received movie \"Das Experiment\".\n\nIn 2004, he attracted world-wide attention with the film \"Der Untergang\" (released in English-speaking countries as \"Downfall\"), produced by Bernd Eichinger. It recounts Adolf Hitler's last days, and sparked an extensive debate in Germany over the portrayal of Nazi leaders. The film was a critical and commercial success, winning numerous awards and a nomination for the Academy Award for the best foreign film. One scene from the film has become the basis for a widespread viral video phenomenon.\n\nHe directed his first Hollywood feature \"The Invasion\", which was partly re-shot by Australian director James McTeigue, at the request of the studio.\n\nHirschbiegel directed the biographical film \"Diana\", about Diana, Princess of Wales, which was released in September 2013. Actress Naomi Watts plays the title role.\n\nHis film \"13 Minutes\" was selected to be screened out of competition at the 65th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nOliver's brother Urs is an assistant director and producer.\n\n\nWins \n\nNominations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10009882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10009882", "title": "Otona no Onnaryoku Kentei", "text": "Otona no Onnaryoku Kentei\n\n"}
{"id": "10871624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10871624", "title": "Professional studies", "text": "Professional studies\n\n\"Professional studies\" is a term used to classify academic programs which are applied or interdisciplinary in focus. The term can also be used for non-academic training for a specific profession.\n\nProfessional studies usually combine theory and practice-based professional learning, focusing on a body of knowledge that is more strictly delineated and canonical than non-professional studies. Students are trained to ensure expected standards and adequate service delivery in the best practice of a profession.\n\nProfessional studies may lead to academic degrees such as the Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS), Master of Professional Studies (MPS), or Doctor of Professional Studies (DPS). A BPS is similar to a Bachelor of General Studies with a greater emphasis on practical and technical training (and a corresponding lower emphasis on liberal arts), and therefore of greater interest to mid-career students. MPS degrees are usually course-based with a report or project component rather than a research thesis. The US National Science Foundation considers a DPS to be equivalent to a PhD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1440020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1440020", "title": "Radio reading service", "text": "Radio reading service\n\nA radio reading service or reading service for the blind is a service of many universities, community groups and public radio stations, where a narrator reads books, newspapers and magazines aloud for the benefit of the blind and vision-impaired. It is most often carried on a subcarrier, with radio receivers permanently tuned to a given station in the area, or an HD Radio subchannel of the offering station. Some reading services use alternative methods for reaching their audiences, including broadcasting over SAP, streaming Internet radio, cable TV, or even terrestrial TV.\n\nThe International Association of Audio Information Services (IAAIS) serves as the primary member organization for radio reading services, and has member services or has consulted with and assisted local organizations in Canada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, Panama, New Zealand, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nThe first radio reading service in the United States was the Minnesota Radio Talking Book Network, started in 1969 by C. Stanley Potter and Robert Watson. After six years of researching the concept, a Kansas philanthropist learned of the Minnesota service, and with their help in 1971 Petey Cerf founded Audio-Reader, the second reading service in the nation, in Lawrence. In the late 1970s, Audio-Reader director Rosie Hurwitz and Stan Potter served as the first two presidents of the Association of Radio Reading Services, which came to be known as the National Association of Radio Reading Services, and, finally, IAAIS.\n\nThe first radio reading service in Canada was founded by Richard Moses and Gordon Norman in Oakville, Ontario, in the basement of the Woodside Branch of the Oakville Public Library in the mid-1970s. \n\nIn the United States, many public radio stations carry a local or regional reading service on an FM subcarrier. They are commonly affiliated with universities, libraries and other non-profit institutions. Reception of these stations require a special receiver, available at no cost to the listener, though most organizations require certification that the potential listener is unable to use normal printed material. Stations in other countries also carry such a service in this fashion. Some radio reading services are broadcast on standard FM stations. WRBH in New Orleans was the first full-time open channel radio reading service, although WRKC in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania has been broadcasting a two-hour-a-day service, the Radio Home Visitor, since 1974. WYPL in Memphis, Tennessee, run by volunteers of the Memphis Public Library, devotes nearly its entire broadcast day to a mixture of live readings and prerecorded readings overnight.\n\nThe first internet-based reading service was Assistive Media, founded in 1996 by David Erdody in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Most of the over 100 audio information services in the U.S. today stream their broadcasts live on the internet, and some offer online archives of previously broadcast programming. Some organizations are providing their listeners with internet radios preprogrammed to easily find the internet stream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "830674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=830674", "title": "Randy Spelling", "text": "Randy Spelling\n\nRandall Gene Spelling (born October 9, 1978) is an American former actor who became a life coach. He is the brother of Tori Spelling and the son of Candy and Aaron Spelling.\n\nSpelling was born in Los Angeles. He has an older sister, actress and reality television personality Tori Spelling. He attended Montclair College Prep.\n\nIn 1995 when Spelling was 17 years old, he played the role of Flipper Gage in the teen-oriented drama \"Malibu Shores\", which was produced by his father. Spelling said he took the role because the characterization was completely different from himself. \n\nSpelling was later cast as Sean Richards in \"Sunset Beach\", again produced by his father.\n\nIn 2007, Spelling took part in his own reality television series, \"Sons of Hollywood\", which aired on the A&E Network. He starred alongside Sean Stewart and David Weintraub.\n\nAs of 2009, he works as a life coach between Portland, Oregon and West Los Angeles.\n\nSpelling married Leah Stutz (now Leah Spelling) on September 25, 2010. The couple have two daughters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42564019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42564019", "title": "Rosalind (education platform)", "text": "Rosalind (education platform)\n\nRosalind is an educational resource and web project for learning bioinformatics through problem solving and computer programming. Rosalind users learn bioinformatics concepts through a problem tree that builds up biological, algorithmic, and programming knowledge concurrently or learn by topics, with the topic of Alignment, Combinatorics, Computational Mass Spectrometry, Heredity, Population Dynamics and so on. Each problem is checked automatically, allowing for the project to also be used for automated homework testing in existing classes.\n\nRosalind is a joint project between the University of California, San Diego and Saint Petersburg Academic University along with the Russian Academy of Sciences. The project's name commemorates Rosalind Franklin, whose X-ray crystallography with Raymond Gosling facilitated the discovery of the DNA double helix by James D. Watson and Francis Crick. It was recognized by Homolog.us as the Best Educational Resource of 2012 in their review of the Top Bioinformatics Contributions of 2012. , it hosts over 40,000 problem solvers.\n\nRosalind was used to teach the first Bioinformatics Algorithms MOOC on Coursera in 2013, including interactive learning materials hosted on Stepic.\n\n"}
{"id": "24429136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24429136", "title": "SCImago Journal Rank", "text": "SCImago Journal Rank\n\nSCImago Journal Rank (SJR indicator) is a measure of scientific influence of scholarly journals that accounts for both the number of citations received by a journal and the importance or prestige of the journals where such citations come from. A journal's SJR is a numeric value indicating the average number of weighted citations received during a selected year per document published in that journal during the previous three years. Higher SJR values are meant to indicate greater journal prestige. \n\nThe SJR indicator is a variant of the eigenvector centrality measure used in network theory. Such measures establish the importance of a node in a network based on the principle that connections to high-scoring nodes contribute more to the score of the node. The SJR indicator has been developed to be used in extremely large and heterogeneous journal citation networks. It is a size-independent indicator and its values order journals by their \"average prestige per article\" and can be used for journal comparisons in science evaluation processes. The SJR indicator is a free journal metric inspired by, and using an algorithm similar to, PageRank.\n\nThe \"SJR indicator\" provides an alternative to the impact factor (IF) or average citations per document in a 2-year period, abbreviated as \"Cites per Doc. (2y)\".\n\nIf scientific impact is considered related to the number of endorsements, in the form of citations, a journal receives, then prestige can be understood as a combination of the number of endorsements and the prestige or importance of the journals issuing them. The \"SJR indicator\" assigns different values to citations depending on the importance of the journals where they come from. This way, citations coming from highly important journals will be more valuable and hence will provide more prestige to the journals receiving them. The calculation of the \"SJR indicator\" is very similar to the \"Eigenfactor score\", with the former being based on the Scopus database and the latter on the Web of Science database.\n\nThe SJR indicator computation is carried out using an iterative algorithm that distributes prestige values among the journals until a steady-state solution is reached. The SJR algorithm begins by setting an identical amount of prestige to each journal, then using an iterative procedure, this prestige is redistributed in a process where journals transfer their achieved prestige to each other through citations. The process ends up when the difference between journal prestige values in consecutive iterations do not reach a minimum threshold value any more. The process is developed in two phases, (a) the computation of \"Prestige SJR\" (\"PSJR\") for each journal: a size-dependent measure that reflects the whole journal prestige, and (b) the normalization of this measure to achieve a size-independent measure of prestige, the \"SJR indicator\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36812790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36812790", "title": "SMK Muhammadiyah Pekalongan", "text": "SMK Muhammadiyah Pekalongan\n\nSMK Muhammadiyah Pekalongan is a senior vocational school in Pekalongan, Central Java, that is run by the Muslim organisation Muhammadiyah. It was established in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "7073575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7073575", "title": "Sarah Shun-lien Bynum", "text": "Sarah Shun-lien Bynum\n\nSarah Shun-lien Bynum (born 1972) is an Asian American writer. Her brother is musician Taylor Ho Bynum.\n\nShe lives in Los Angeles with her husband and daughter. She taught writing and literature in the Graduate MFA Writing program at Otis College of Art and Design until 2015. Bynum is a graduate of Brown University and the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop. Fairy tales are a common theme in many of her works. Bynum expressed her interest in fairy tales is because \"they always walk that line between wonder and darkness,\" as well as the \"disturbing energy\" that they hold. \"Madeleine is Sleeping\" was published by Harcourt in 2004, was a finalist for the National Book Award, and winner of the Janet Heidinger Kafka Prize. Her short stories, including excerpts from her new novel, have appeared in The New Yorker, Tin House, Triquarterly, The Georgia Review, Alaska Quarterly Review, and in Best American Short Stories. Her second novel, \"Ms. Hempel Chronicles\", was published in September 2008 and was a finalist for the PEN/Faulkner Award in 2009. \n\nIn a 2009 book review of \"Ms. Hempel Chronicles\" published in the Sunday book review of \"The New York Times\", Josh Emmons notes Bynum's \"prose remains nimble and entertaining, a model of quiet control well suited to its subject\" and the \"deftness with which [Ms. Hempel] observes and describes her world and its inhabitants is so engaging that for all its circumspection and regrettable lacunae, “Ms. Hempel Chronicles” works as an account of how nostalgia — both for what was and might have been — can generate a thousand mercies.\"\n\nIn 2010, Bynum was named one of \"New Yorker\" magazine's top \"20 Under 40\" fiction writers in which the editors note her works \"offer idiosyncratic, voice-driven narratives.\" \n\nIn 2017, she was featured in an interview in \"The\" \"New Yorker\" magazine on surviving adolescence and social media. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1394717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1394717", "title": "SimHealth", "text": "SimHealth\n\nSimHealth: The National Health Care Simulation is a management simulation video game, developed by Thinking Tools and published by Maxis with assistance from the Markle Foundation for MS-DOS in 1994. It is a simulation of the U.S. Healthcare system. The game was released during Congressional debates on the Clinton health care plan.\n\nDue to the complexity of the game, SimHealth was seen as being very difficult. Armed with none of the tongue-in-cheek humor that Maxis's prior games were known for, the only real link to the franchise was the \"SimCity 2000\"-inspired user interface. The game was seen as more serious than other Maxis games. Noel Fritzinger, who with Lyman Orton first conceptualized CommunityViz, says that his inspiration came from seeing \"SimHealth\" and wondering if the same concepts could be applied to real-world land-use planning.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\"s Keith Schlesinger in June 1994 said that \"\"SimHealth\" is a trailblazer in the simulations genre, but as a game it has problems\". Acknowledging that \"it wasn't primarily designed as an entertainment product\", he criticized the \"not well developed\" victory conditions, reporting that he got a high score in one game by \"sacrific[ing] nearly all of the big and small business firms in the country to achieve the win! What kind of a victory is that?\" Schlesinger found that adopting an extreme libertarian ideology including ending Medicare and many other government services resulted in almost hands-off victory although \"the entire private insurance industry goes bankrupt in the first three months\". He nonetheless concluded that \"\"SimHealth\" offers much at a good price, and in a good cause\", and recommended it to those \"not too fussy about winning and losing\", or wanting to be able to alter the model's 152 assumptions. \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the game a C- writing \"For a vivid demonstration of just how complex — and boring — the health care crisis is, try spending a few hours with SimHealth, which lets you do what Hillary Clinton couldn't: design a successful national health care system.\"\n"}
{"id": "796252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796252", "title": "SimTower", "text": "SimTower\n\nSimTower: The Vertical Empire (known as in Japan) is a construction and management simulation video game developed by OpenBook Co., Ltd. and published by Maxis for the Microsoft Windows and Macintosh System 7 operating systems in November 1994. In Japan, it was published by OpenBook that same year and was later released for the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation in 1996. The game allows players to build and manage a tower and decide what facilities to place in it, in order to ultimately build a five-star tower. Random events take place during play, such as terrorist acts that the player must respond to immediately.\n\nCritical reception towards the game was generally positive. Reviews praised the game's formula, including its open-ended nature and its ability to immerse the player into the game. Criticism targeted the game's lack of documentation, which some reviewers found made it harder to learn how to play the game. The in-game speed was also criticized for being too slow, which was a crucial issue in the game because time must pass for the player to earn income to purchase new facilities.\n\n\"SimTower\" allows the player to build and manage the operations of a modern, multi-use skyscraper. They must plan where to place facilities in the tower that include restaurants, condominiums, offices, hotel rooms, retail stores and elevators. To prevent tenants from vacating their properties, the player must keep their stress low by fulfilling their demands for medical centers, parking lots, recycling facilities, clean hotel rooms with the help of housekeepers, and an efficient transportation system, which involves managing elevator traffic. \"SimTower\", which was built around an elevator simulation program, places a strong emphasis on good elevator management.\n\nThe game begins with a one-star tower with limited building options. To increase the tower's star rating, it must attract more tenants by providing more living space (or office space, and later in the game, hotel and various commercial space). New facilities are made available while the tower progresses from a one-star rating to a five-star rating. The highest achievable rating is the designation of \"Tower\" which can only be awarded by building a cathedral at the very top of a five-star building with all possible tower levels above ground developed. The tower is limited to a maximum of 100 floors above ground and nine stories below ground. Standard elevators, which can span a maximum of 30 floors, and express elevators, which can span the entire height of the building, must be used efficiently to decrease tenant stress.\n\nCertain events can take place while managing the tower. For example, terrorists may phone the player to let them know that they have hidden a bomb in the building, and that they demand a ransom. If the ransom is not paid, then security services must find the bomb before it detonates, or else the tower will incur significant damages. If the player builds facilities underground, the game may notify them that their workers have discovered gold treasure, which gives the player a significant amount of funds. At random intervals during the game, there are notifications that state that a VIP will be visiting the tower soon, so the player must prepare for their visit. If the VIP enjoys their visit because of variables such as a comfortable hotel suite and efficient navigation, the VIP will give the tower a favorable rating. A favorable rating would then allow the tower to advance to the next star level, assuming the other qualifications are met. Although it does not have any impact on the tower, at the end of the fourth quarter every year in the game, Santa Claus and his reindeer fly across the tower.\n\nDeveloped by Yoot Saito of OpenBook, \"SimTower\" was originally titled \"The Tower\". It works on computers that can run the Microsoft Windows or Macintosh System 7 operating systems; the game will operate on 68k-based Macs at the minimum. It requires 8-bit colors and four megabytes of random-access memory. Graphics and sounds used in \"SimTower\" are similar to previous \"Sim\" games, and high resolution graphics are also used. The sound effects are kept to a minimum; noises that are played in the background include office \"buzz\" and elevator bells.\n\nWhile attending Waseda University, Saito played \"SimCity\" on the Macintosh, which prompted him to pursue video game creation after graduating. His first game was a simulation title that was part of a future media project for a publishing house. When Saito asked to develop a second, the business refused because it was not a video game company. He left the company to personally produce the second game, which built on ideas he conceived while working on his first: elevators and towers. Saito teamed up with freelance programmer Takumi Abe to complete the project. To research the gameplay, Saito contacted an elevator company to learn about elevator scheduling and management. However, the company declined to provide the information. Saito handled the graphic design, and started with a monochromatic scaled tower created in HyperCard. The designer added color to differentiate between office- and hotel-type buildings. As development neared completion, Saito noticed that the Mac's performance had improved and decided to increase the color palette size from 16 to 256 colors. Saito enlisted a second designer to produce animation for the graphics and improve the details for the color increase.\n\n\"SimTower\" was successful in Japan, earning the developers a profit. The \"Nihon Keizai Shimbun\" awarded Saito the \"Best Young Manager/Venture of the Year\" for his work on the game. After the initial Japanese release, Maxis president Jeff Braun contacted Saito regarding a worldwide release; \"SimCity\" creator Will Wright informed Braun of the game. The company localized the game for sale in the United States, and changed the name to capitalize on the popularity of the \"Sim\" franchise and increase sales figures. Maxis published \"SimTower\" for the Windows and Macintosh System 7 operating systems in November 1994 in the United States. In 1996, it was ported to the Sega Saturn and 3DO Interactive Multiplayer in Japan.\n\nThe \"South China Morning Post\" praised the game's formula, noting that it followed in the footsteps of previous open-ended Maxis games. Comparing to \"SimCity 2000\", the review remarked that it was more interesting to watch people live out their lives in a tower rather than to observe cars moving around. They also appreciated the \"homely\" feeling of \"SimTower\", in contrast with other \"Sim\" games such as \"SimEarth\" and \"SimLife\", which they felt were too universal to take on a personal identity. Benjamin Svetkey of \"Entertainment Weekly\" praised the game and commented that it is \"more fun than [the concept] sounds\". However, he stated that the gameplay may be too much for fans of the series. A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" panned the game, saying it lacks the bustling interactivity of previous games in the Sim franchise: \"There are bug infestations and the occasional fire with which to deal, but most of the time, \"SimTower\" sees you standing around waiting for cash reserves to grow in order to add more floors. Not much fun at all.\" Australia's \"The Age\" found \"SimTower\" a pleasing return to form for Maxis, after the release of the disappointing \"SimFarm\". Lisa Karen Savignano of Allgame stated that the game had decent graphics and sound. However, she also felt that \"SimTower\" had good replay value due to the non-linear gameplay, giving the game four stars out of five.\n\nThe game was criticized by the \"South China Morning Post\" for lacking documentation, making it more difficult to learn how to play the game. They also predicted that players would be unhappy with the game's speed, as time plays an important role in earning money from tenants. Before the player can purchase new facilities, a long period of time must pass before income is earned from tenants. The newspaper was also unhappy with complaints from tenants; specific reasons for their dissatisfaction are never given. \"The Age\" was disappointed by the lack of pre-built towers and scenarios, suggesting that one along the lines of \"The Towering Inferno\"s plot could have been included. \"Game Informer\" referred to \"SimTower\" as a \"lesser-known\" simulation game, and described it as \"fun and addictive\". Writing for the \"San Diego Union-Tribune\", Matt Miller felt that, when compared to \"SimCity 2000\" (1993), gameplay in \"SimTower\" moved slowly. He also disliked the moments when he had to wait several minutes to pass by before he could make enough money to purchase new additions for his building. \"Dragon\" magazine's reviewers Jay and Dee praised the visuals and gameplay. However, the two commented that the game can feel slow because it lacks gameplay elements and options present in other strategy games. In 1995, the Software and Information Industry Association listed \"SimTower\" as the \"Best Simulation Program\" in the Consumer software category of their annual Codie awards.\n\nThe game was followed by \"Yoot Tower\" (called \"The Tower II\" in Japan), also designed by Yoot Saito, which was initially released on November 24, 1998 for the Macintosh. It was later made available for the Windows operating systems in January 1999. \"Yoot Tower\"s gameplay is similar to that of \"SimTower\"—players build hotels, resorts, and office buildings, and work towards building a five-star tower. Vivarium launched a version of \"SimTower\" for the Game Boy Advance, called \"The Tower SP\", published by Nintendo in Japan on April 28, 2005, and by Sega in the United States on March 15, 2006. A version of \"SimTower\" called \"The Tower DS\" was published by DigiToys in Japan on June 26, 2008. \"Yoot Tower\" was also released for iPad devices via the online iOS App Store.\n\n"}
{"id": "21022706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21022706", "title": "Stock market education", "text": "Stock market education\n\nTo become a professional securities broker in the United States, an individual must take and pass the General Securities Representative Exam (Series 7) and in most states, the Uniform Securities Agent State Law Examination (Series 63). To take the test, you must be sponsored by \"a member firm, a self-regulatory organization (SRO), or an exchange.\" This requirement, as well as the administration of the test, is under the jurisdiction of FINRA, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.\n\nFor individuals who are interested only in managing their own investments, several options exist to obtain a stock market education:\n\n\nMany colleges and universities offer courses of study in business, economics, and finance. However, the coursework is aimed at preparing the student for the professional world. They are not designed or intended to teach a student how to trade in the stock market, although the introductory/basic courses would provide a good basic foundation of knowledge. Those intending to follow the professional stockbroker career path usually begin their education by obtaining a degree in business, economics, or finance.\n\nSome of the core subjects covered by an undergraduate education during the course of a financial/business college education are:\n\nNon-traditional classroom settings are offered by:\n\n\nFor-profit financial education companies exist that offer programs of study (also referred to as \"systems\" or \"courses\" – the terminology varies) on stock market education. Unlike colleges that prepare students for working in the financial arena, these companies educate students with a more narrow focus – how to trade derivatives for the purpose of personal investing. Examples of such companies are thinkorswim (formerly Investools), Invested Central, Trading Advantage, Global Finance School, and Rich Dad's Education (based on the \"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\" book by Robert Kiyosaki). These types of companies offer both classroom settings for learning and distance education programs.\n\nAnother aspect that differentiates for-profit stock market education companies from traditional colleges is the commercialization factor. For-profit stock market education companies frequently develop other products – such as software and newsletters – that they market to their students. Colleges and universities, frequently founded for the purpose of providing education and established as non-profit organizations, do not follow this business model.\n\nAlso referred to as \"personal coaches,\" mentors work one-on-one with a student, In this situation, the student receives more personal attention from the instructor than from a classroom or distance learning education. Some mentors offer their services for a fee.\n\nThe following resources exist in libraries and on the Internet for an individual to learn about investing in the stock market:\n\n\nWhether an individual chooses a traditional or non-traditional education to learn how the stock market works, the following basic subjects are covered:\n\n\nMore advanced topics would include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1533342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533342", "title": "TED (conference)", "text": "TED (conference)\n\nTED Conferences LLC (Technology, Entertainment, Design) is a media organization that posts talks online for free distribution under the slogan \"ideas worth spreading.\" TED was conceived by Richard Saul Wurman in February 1984 as a conference which has been held annually since 1990. TED's early emphasis was on technology and design, consistent with its Silicon Valley origins, but it has since broadened its repertoire to include talks on many scientific, cultural, and academic topics. It is owned by Chris Anderson, a British American businessman, through the Sapling foundation.\n\nThe main TED conference is held annually in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada at the Vancouver Convention Centre. Prior to 2014, the conference was held in Long Beach, California, United States. TED events are also held throughout North America and in Europe and Asia, offering live streaming of the talks. They address a wide range of topics within the research and practice of science and culture, often through storytelling. The speakers are given a maximum of 18 minutes to present their ideas in the most innovative and engaging ways they can. Past speakers include Bill Clinton, Sean M. Carroll, Elon Musk, Ray Dalio, Cédric Villani, Stephen Hawking, Jane Goodall, Al Gore, Temple Grandin, Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Billy Graham, Richard Dawkins, Bill Gates, Dolph Lundgren, Bono, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and many Nobel Prize winners. TED's current curator is the British former computer journalist and magazine publisher Chris Anderson.\nSince June 2006, TED Talks have been offered for free viewing online, under an Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives Creative Commons license, through TED.com. , over 2,600 TED Talks are freely available on the website. In June 2011, TED Talks' combined viewing figure stood at more than 500 million, and by November 2012, TED Talks had been watched over one billion times worldwide. TED Talks given by academics tend to be watched more online while art and design videos tend to be watched less than average.\n\nTED was conceived in 1984 by architect and graphic designer Richard Saul Wurman, who observed a convergence of the fields of technology, entertainment, and design (that is, \"TED\"). The first conference, organized by Harry Marks and Wurman in the same year, featured demos of the compact disc, co-developed by Philips and Sony and one of the first demonstrations of the Apple Macintosh computer. Presentations were given by famous mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and influential members of the digerati community, like Nicholas Negroponte and Stewart Brand. The event was financially unsuccessful; it took six years before the second conference was organized.\n\nFrom 1990 onward, a growing community of \"TEDsters\" gathered annually at the event in California State University Monterey Bay, until 2009, when it was relocated to Long Beach, California due to a substantial increase in attendees. Initially, the speakers had been drawn from the fields of expertise behind the acronym TED, but during the nineties, the roster of presenters broadened to include scientists, philosophers, musicians, religious leaders, philanthropists, and many others.\n\nIn 2000, Wurman, looking for a successor at age 65, met with new-media entrepreneur and TED enthusiast Chris Anderson to discuss future happenings. Anderson's UK media company Future bought TED. In November 2001, Anderson's non-profit The Sapling Foundation (motto: \"fostering the spread of great ideas.\") acquired TED from Future for £6m. In February 2002, Anderson gave a TED Talk in which he explained his vision of the conference and his future role of curator. Wurman left after the 2002 conference.\n\nIn 2006, attendance cost was $4,400 per person and was by invitation only. The membership model was shifted in January 2007 to an annual membership fee of $6,000, which includes attendance of the conference, club mailings, networking tools, and conference DVDs. The 2018 conference was $10,000 per attendee.\n\nIn 2014, the conference was relocated to Vancouver.\n\nTED is currently funded by a combination of various revenue streams, including conference attendance fees, corporate sponsorships, foundation support, licensing fees, and book sales. Corporate sponsorships are diverse, provided by companies such as Google, GE, AOL, Goldman Sachs, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. Sponsors do not participate in the creative direction of the event, nor are they allowed to present on the main stage, in the interests of independence.\n\nThe TED staff consists of about 180 people headquartered in New York City and Vancouver.\n\nThe TED Prize was introduced in 2005. Until 2010, it annually granted three individuals $100,000 and a \"wish to change the world\". Each winner unveils their wish at the main annual conference. Since 2010, in a changed selection process, a single winner is chosen to ensure that TED can maximize its efforts in achieving the winner's wish. In 2012, the prize was not awarded to an individual, but to a concept connected to the current global phenomenon of increasing urbanization. In 2013, the prize amount was increased to $1 million. TED Prize winners in previous years:\nTED Conference commissioned New York artist Tom Shannon to create a prize sculpture to be given to all TED Prize winners.\nThe sculpture consists of an diameter aluminum sphere magnetically levitated above a walnut disc.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Anderson hired June Cohen as Director of TED Media. In June 2006, after Cohen's idea of a TV show based on TED lectures was rejected by several networks, a selection of talks that had received the highest audience ratings was posted on the websites of TED, YouTube, and iTunes, under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0. Initially, only a handful of talks were posted, to test if there was an audience for them. In January of the next year, the number of TED Talks on the site had grown to 44, and they had been viewed more than three million times. On the basis of that success, the organization pumped hundreds of thousands of dollars into its video production operations and into the development of a website to showcase about 100 of the talks.\n\nIn April 2007, the new TED.com was launched, developed by design firm Method. In subsequent years, the website has won many prizes, among which seven Webby Awards, iTunes' \"Best Podcast of the Year\" (2006-2010), the Communication Arts Interactive Award for \"Information Design\" in 2007, the OMMA Award for \"video sharing\" in 2008, the Web Visionary Award for \"technical achievement\" in 2008, The One Show Interactive Bronze Award in 2008, the AIGA Annual Design Competition (2009), and a Peabody Award in 2012.\n\nAs of January 2018, over 2600 TED talks had been posted. Every week 5-7 new talks are published. In January 2009, the then number of videos had been viewed 50 million times. In June 2011, the number of views totaled 500 million, and on November 13, 2012, TED reached its billionth video view. Chris Anderson in an interview in March 2012:\nIt used to be 800 people getting together once a year; now it's about a million people a day watching TED Talks online. When we first put up a few of the talks as an experiment, we got such impassioned responses that we decided to flip the organization on its head and think of ourselves not so much as a conference but as \"ideas worth spreading,\" building a big website around it. The conference is still the engine, but the website is the amplifier that takes the ideas to the world.\n\nIn March 2012, Netflix announced a deal to stream an initial series of 16 two-hour shows, consisting of TED Talks covering similar subjects, from multiple speakers. The content was made available to subscribers in the US, Canada, Latin America, the UK, and Ireland. Hosted by Jami Floyd, \"TED Talks NYC\" debuted on NYC Life on March 21, 2012.\n\nIn 2005, under Anderson's supervision, a more internationally oriented sister conference was added, under the name TEDGlobal. It was held, in chronological order: in Oxford, UK (2005), in Arusha, Tanzania (2007, titled TEDAfrica), in Oxford again (2009 and 2010), and in Edinburgh, UK (2011, 2012, and 2013). In 2014, it was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Additionally, there was TED India, in Mysore (2009) and TEDGlobal London in London (2015). TEDGlobal 2017 was held again in Arusha, Tanzania and it was curated and hosted by Emeka Okafor.\n\nTED's European director (and curator of TEDGlobal) is Swiss-born Bruno Giussani.\n\nTED Translators started as TED Open Translation Project in May 2009 and aims to \"[reach] out to the 4.5 billion people on the planet who don't speak English\", according to TED Curator Chris Anderson. The OTP utilizes crowd-based subtitling platforms to translate the text of TED and TED-Ed videos, as well as to caption and translate videos created in the TEDx program (with its technology partner dotSUB until May 2012, and then with open source translation tool Amara). At the time of the launch, 300 translations had been done by 200 volunteer transcribers in 40 languages. In May 2015, over 70,000 sets of subtitles in 107 languages had been completed by (an all-time total of) 38,173 volunteer translators.\n\nThe project contributed to a significant increase in international visitors to TED's website, with traffic from outside the US growing 350 percent, 600 percent growth in Asia, and more than 1000 percent in South America.\n\nMembers have several tools dedicated to knowledge management, such as the OTP Wiki OTPedia, Facebook groups, or video tutorials.\n\nTEDx are independent TED-like events, which can be organized by anyone who obtains a free license from TED, agreeing to follow certain principles. TEDx events are non-profit but may use an admission fee or commercial sponsorship to cover costs. Similarly, speakers are not paid. They must also relinquish the copyrights to their materials, which TED may edit and distribute under a Creative Commons license.\n\nA TEDx event is organized by volunteers from the local community, and just like TED events, it lacks any commercial, religious, or political agenda. Its goal is to spark conversation, connection, and community.\n\nAs of January 2014, the TEDxTalks library contained some 30,000 films and presentations from over 130 countries. As of October 2017, the TEDx archive surpassed 100,000 talks. In March 2013, eight TEDx events were organised every day; raised up from five in June 2012, the previous year, in 133 countries. TEDx presentations also include live performances, which are catalogued in the TEDx Music Project. In 2011, TED began a program called \"TEDx in a Box\" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events. TEDx also expanded to include TEDxYouth events, TEDx corporate events, and TEDxWomen. TEDxYouth events are independent programs set up for students roughly between 7–12 grades. These events usually have people closer to the age of the students and sometimes show TED Talks. According to TEDxSanta Cruz, \"as of 2015, over 1,500 [TEDx events] have been scheduled all over the world\". TEDx events evolved over a period of time and events like TEDxBeaconStreet created TEDx Adventures for participants where participants sign up for free, hands-on experiences in their local communities, led by an expert.\n\nSince 2015, TEDxHyderabad is being conducted in India every year, with its 3rd edition conducted in September 2017. As of 2017, TED Talks airs as a television programme in Jamaica on CVM Television.\n\nTED Fellows were introduced in 2007, during the first TEDAfrica conference in Arusha, Tanzania, where 100 young people were selected from across the continent. Two years later, during TEDIndia, 99 Fellows were recruited, mainly from South Asia. In 2009, the Fellows program was initiated in its present form. For every TED or TEDGlobal conference, 20 Fellows are selected; a total of 40 new Fellows a year. Each year, 20 past Fellows are chosen to participate in the two-year Senior Fellows program (in which they will attend four more conferences).\n\nAcceptance as a Fellow is not based on academic credentials, but mainly on past and current actions, and plans for the future. Besides attending a conference free of charge, each Fellow takes part in a special program with mentoring by experts in the field of spreading ideas, and he or she can give a short talk on the \"TED Fellows\" stage. Some of these talks are subsequently published on TED.com. Senior Fellows have additional benefits and responsibilities.\n\nTED-Ed is a category of TED talks which are short animated lessons aimed at children. It creates explanatory animation videos on various concepts. TED-Ed lessons are created in collaboration with educators and animators. Current advisers for Ted-Ed lessons include Aaron Sams, Jackie Bezos, John Hunter, Jonathan Bergmann, Sir Ken Robinson, Melinda French Gates, and Salman Khan.\n\nTEDMED is an annual conference concerned with health and medicine. It is an independent event operating under license from the nonprofit TED conference.\n\nTEDMED was founded in 1998 by TED's founder Ricky Wurman. After years of inactivity, in 2008 Wurman sold TEDMED to entrepreneur Marc Hodosh, who recreated and relaunched it. The first event under Hodosh's ownership was held in San Diego in October 2009. In January 2010, TED.com began including videos of TEDMED talks on the TED website.\n\nThe second Hodosh-owned edition of TEDMED took place in October 2010, also in San Diego. It sold out for a second year and attracted notable healthcare leaders and Hollywood celebrities.\n\nIn 2011, Jay Walker and a group of executives and investors purchased TEDMED from Hodosh for $16 million with future additional payments of as much as $9 million. The conference was then moved to Washington, DC.\n\nTEDWomen is a three-day conference. Established in 2010, TEDWomen features speakers focused on women-oriented themes, including gender issues and reproductive health. There are over 130 TEDWomen Talks available to watch on the TED website. Past speakers include former president Jimmy Carter, Hillary Clinton, Sheryl Sandberg, Madeleine Albright, Nancy Pelosi and Halla Tómasdóttir, among others.\n\nTEDYouth talks are aimed at middle school and high school children and feature information from youth innovators.\n\n\nFrank Swain, a deaf journalist, refused to participate in a TEDx event without getting paid. He said that it is unacceptable that TED, which is a non-profit organization, charges attendees $6,000 but cannot afford to pay anything to their speakers.\n\nSpeakers at the independently-organized TEDx talks may not be paid; speakers at the official, yearly, TED Conference are compensated for their talks.\n\nSarah Lacy of \"BusinessWeek\" and \"TechCrunch\" wrote in 2010 that TED attendees complained of elitism from a \"hierarchy of parties throughout the LA-area with strict lists and security\" after the sessions. She gave TED credit for making talks free online or live streamed.\n\nDisagreements have also occurred between TED speakers and organizers. In her 2010 TED Talk, comedian Sarah Silverman referred to adopting a \"retarded\" child. TED organizer Chris Anderson objected via his Twitter account, leading to a Twitter skirmish between them.\n\nAlso in 2010, noted statistician Nassim Taleb called TED a \"monstrosity that turns scientists and thinkers into low-level entertainers, like circus performers.\" He claimed TED curators did not initially post his talk \"warning about the financial crisis\" on their site on purely cosmetic grounds.\n\nNick Hanauer spoke at TED University, challenging the popular belief that top income earners in America are the engines of job creation. TED was accused of censoring the talk by not posting it on the website. The \"National Journal\" reported Chris Anderson had reacted by saying the talk probably ranked as one of the most politically controversial talks they had ever run, and they needed to be careful about when they posted it. Anderson officially responded, indicating that TED only posts one talk every day, selected from many. \"Forbes\" staff writer Bruce Upbin described Hanauer's talk as \"shoddy and dumb\" while \"New York\" magazine condemned the conference's move.\n\nFollowing a TEDx talk by Rupert Sheldrake, TED issued a statement saying their scientific advisors believed that \"there is little evidence for some of Sheldrake's more radical claims\" made in the talk and recommended that it \"should not be distributed without being framed with caution\". The video of the talk was moved from the TEDx YouTube channel to the TED blog accompanied by the framing language called for by the advisors. The move and framing prompted accusations of censorship, to which TED responded by saying the accusations were \"simply not true\" and that Sheldrake's talk was \"up on our website\".\n\nTED has also been accused of censoring a presentation by Graham Hancock in which he discussed the effects of legal versus illegal drugs, by removing it from YouTube.\n\nAccording to Professor Benjamin Bratton at University of California, San Diego, TED Talks' efforts at fostering progress in socio-economics, science, philosophy, and technology have been ineffective. Chris Anderson responded that some critics have a misconception of TED's goals, and failed to recognise that TED aimed to instill excitement in the audience in the same way the speaker felt it. He stated that TED only wishes to bring news of the significance of certain topics to a large audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "54184325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54184325", "title": "The Journal of Educational Research", "text": "The Journal of Educational Research\n\nThe Journal of Educational Research is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering research into education. It was established in 1920 and is published by Taylor & Francis. The editor-in-chief is Mary F. Heller (University of Hawaii–West Oahu). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.197.\n"}
{"id": "3977021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977021", "title": "Universidad Autónoma Agraria Antonio Narro", "text": "Universidad Autónoma Agraria Antonio Narro\n\nThe Antonio Narro Agrarian Autonomous University or Universidad Autónoma Agraria Antonio Narro in Spanish (UAAAN) is a public university in Mexico dedicated to the Agricultural, Silvicultural, Animal Production, food and Environmental Sciences. It is located 6 kilometers south of Saltillo, in the Mexican state of Coahuila. The Antonio Narro Agrarian Autonomous University is one of the most important agricultural college of America Latina and the \"Narro\" have national and international recognition in the agricultural and animal industry and the high academic level. There is also a campus in Torreón, Coahuila. It is also called \"Universidad Antonio Narro\" for short, or simply, \"La Narro\". In 2008 the UAAAN has an enrollment of about 4,500 students in both campuses, all in agriculture and related sciences. \n\nThe Antonio Narro Agrarian Autonomous University (UAAAN) was founded on March 4, 1923, after the philanthropist Antonio Narro Rodríguez donated his Buenavista Estate for a public agricultural university, which became the \"Regional School of Agriculture Antonio Narro\". The main objective of this university consisted on preparing young people in a professional discipline of agricultural work in the field. Two months before dying on September 24, 1912, Antonio Narro Rodriguez had bequeathed a substantial part of its personal fortune: his property in Buenavista and $22,000 Mexican pesos, the value of six urban properties in the city of Saltillo, for constituting a school of agriculture.\n\nOver the years, the university college changed its name several times. In 1938, it became the \"Superior School of Agriculture\" (\"Escuela Superior de Agricultura\"); by 1957, then became a founding institution of the \"University of Coahuila\". In 1975, it became \"Antonio Narro Agrarian Autonomous University\" by a decree of the Coahuila state congress. Finally, in 2006, UAAAN was recognized as a Federal University, through a decree approved by the House of Representatives, the Senators Chamber and published in the federal registry by the President of Mexico, April 26, 2006.\n\nIn the 1990s, the university built and signed on a radio station, XESAL-AM 1220.\n\nThe emblem that carries the Universidad Autónoma Agraria Antonio Narro expresses the ancestral eagle of Mexico, holding in its talons the spike of wheat as a symbol of life and bread. It holds the wisdom (represented by the owl) surrounded by clouds (rain) that germinate the seed. Wisdom stands on the plough and the land. Mind and force together for a single purpose: the love of mother earth (Alma Terra Mater), for the life of man.\n\nIn the same year he was born the team mascot is looking for the same, one day, after an intense practice, team members began to eat with great appetite, which made someone cry \"... They eat like vultures ... \". Students found in this bird similar to the colors \"black and gold\" (some vultures are black, some are white-yellowish neck) also has claw vulture, which was characteristic of the founding team, and lives in the mountains while the school is located in the foothills of the majestic Sierra de \"Zapalinamé\" and guarded by a jealous guardian: \"EI Old Picacho,\" San Lorenzo Canyon. Thus was born \"the Vultures\" so much tradition.\n\nClimate at the main (Saltillo) campus of the UAAAN is dry semicalid; there are occasional freezes. Temperature seldom drops below -2 °C (26 F) (once in some years). Annual rainfall is about 300 mm. Natural vegetation is short Chihuahuan desert brush of several species of \"Acacia\"; there are also \"Yucca\" spp., lechuguilla (\"Agave lechuguilla\"), creosotebush (\"Larrea tridentata\"), mesquite (\"Prosopis\"), and granjeno (\"Celtis\").\n\nThe main (Saltillo) campus of the UAAAN occupies more than 4 square kilometres in a fertile valley a few kilometres south of the city of Saltillo on the Zacatecas highway. A substantial amount of this land is occupied by experimental and demonstrative plots including annual and perennial crops like: corn, wheat, triticale; vegetables such as temperate (Cruciferae: broccoli, cabbage), warm-season (Solanaceae: peppers, tomatoes), and others (squash, cilantro, onions, garlic, etc.); pecan and pistachio orchards; greenhouses (growing vegetables and ornamentals). All agriculture must use irrigation; there is no dryland agriculture. The University also includes animal production facilities (barns for intensive rearing of pigs, cows, goats, and dairy cows, mainly) including fistulated cattle. There is also has a cattle ranch (Rancho Los Angeles) (extensively colonized by the endangered Mexican prairie dogs, \"Cynomys mexicanus\"); a reforestation woodland occupying more than 4 km² of pines; and a botanical garden featuring mainly desert plant species (cacti, agaves) and trees. \n\nThe UAAAN has several agricultural experimental fields across Mexico, encompassing climates from the wet tropics (Veracruz) to the Chihuahuan desert: Ocampo, Coahuila state; Matehuala, San Luis Potosi state (cactus botanical garden); Noria de Guadalupe, Zacatecas state; Cuencamé, Durango state. Also, in the Sierra Madre Oriental valleys: Navidad, Nuevo Leon (potato), and Los Lirios, Coahuila state (apple).\n\nThe Dirección de Licenciatura (Undergraduate Office) manages the 4-5 year undergraduate majors including Ingeniero Agrónomo and majors in Horticultura, Producción, Parasitólogía, Forestal, Agrobiología, Zootecnia, Ciencia y Tecnología de Alimentos, Administración Agrícola, Desarrollo Rural,Mecánico Agrícola, Irrigación, Agrícola y Ambiental, Procesos Ambientales, Agroecología, Lic en Economia Agrícola y Agronegiocios, Medicina Veterinaria and others. . The Direccion General Academica oversees international student programs, exchanges and stays. \n\nThe Dirección de Posgrado (Graduate Office) directs Graduate programs include\ning the Professional Master's on Seed Technology , and the Master's and Doctorates on Plant Breeding, , Agrarian Sciences , Production Systems Engineering , Animal Sciences and Plant Protection or Agricultural Parasitology . Most of these programs are considered \" Excellency Graduate Programs\" by the National Council of Science and technology (CONACYT) [www.conacyt.mx].\n\nInternational student presence at the University has been steady. In recent years, students from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Panama, France, Ghana, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Nicaragua and the United States have attended the school.\n\nThe Universidad Autónoma Agraria Antonio Narro counts with different groups like cultural, civic, and artistics.\n\n\n\n\n\nSince its inception as an institution of agricultural education in 1923, the Narro is concerned that, simultaneously with the academic, professional theoretical and practical wrought here, go also as part of its physical development through sport help to the formation of his character.\n\nIn the early years of the Regional School of Agriculture then young students, in addition to having to work in the garden, the garden, the barn, the poultry and agricultural fields, were required to make physical education-practice a sport-, which was intended they were in good health\n\nUAAAN currently has the following sports disciplines:\n\n\nThe UAAAN Laguna Unit (UAAAN-UL) is located in the city of Torreón, Coahuila., Mexico. in the heart of the Laguna Region, on the peripheral leading to Gomez Palacio, Durango., and road to Santa Fe has an area of 37 ha. of which about 2.5 are used in university facilities and the rest for agricultural activities and research practice.\nThe perimeter of the campus is fenced in its entirety, giving privacy and control. It has a modern and functional infrastructure that supports the activities of the teaching-learning process, consists of 42 classrooms, 20 laboratories, cubicles for teachers, sports facilities, dining room, a central library and an auditorium with capacity for 150 people.\nAs student support services are available as internship, residency feminine, dining, transportation, nursing, language center, computer center and sports\n\nThe UAAAN-UL emerged from what was School of Veterinary Medicine of the Laguna, A. C., established in April 1975. This school emerged, in turn, from the merger of the schools of Veterinary Medicine of San Pedro de las Colonias and Torreón, Coahuila.\n\n\nThe Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or DVM Program (\"Medico Veterinario Zootecnista\" in Spanish)\nIt offers an excellent level academic labs and small species are to coarse, as well as labs in large species, Puesto that is located in the Lagoon Region (Torreón Municipality, Gómez Palacio Municipality, Lerdo Municipality), where it is the biggest dairy production in México, bell across America, without telling them of poultry farms, pigs and fattening bovine meat production.\n\nIn the Laguna Region (Torreón Municipality, Gómez Palacio Municipality, Lerdo Municipality) are major food companies such as:\n\n\nThey have a wide variety of practices in different field pets.\n\nDVM Program mission is to prepare quality and high standards. This race has 10 semesters spread over five years.\n\n"}
{"id": "35926036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35926036", "title": "Wassan Al-Khudhairi", "text": "Wassan Al-Khudhairi\n\nWassan Al-Khudhairi is a curator who specializes in modern and contemporary art from the Arab world. In 2017 she was appointed Chief Curator of the Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis.\n\nAs the first ever director of Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art, Al-Khudhairi was responsible for developing the newly established institution, overseeing policy development, acquisitions and collections registration. During her tenure at Mathaf, she curated “Saraab: Cai Guo-Qiang” (2011) and co-curated “Sajjil: A Century of Modern Art” (2010) along with Nada Shabout and Deena Chalabi, which showcased works from Mathaf’s permanent collection. Under Al-Khudhairi's leadership, Mathaf solidified its commitment to not shy away from potentially controversial work and has hosted Art Dubai's Global Art Forum for the past several years\n\nAl-Khudhairi received her BA in Art History from Georgia State University and M.A. with distinction in Islamic Art and Architecture from the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) in London. Al-Khudhairi is of Iraqi origin and has lived in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the U.K. and the U.S., where she worked at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta and the Brooklyn Museum of Art in New York. \n\nAs a curator, her research interests are in modern art from the Arab world, with a particular emphasis on Iraq. Al-Khudhairi has presented on the role of Iraqi women artists in formulating modernism in Iraq. Al-Khudhairi's work often considers questions such as the use or recreation of history, memory, traumatic events such as war and civil uprising. \n\nOne of the youngest museum directors ever and a leader within the Arab world's emerging contemporary art scene, Al-Khudhairi was a Keynote speaker at the 2012 Communicating the Museum conference\n\nAl-Khudhairi was a Co-Artistic Director of ROUNDTABLE: The 9th Gwangju Biennale (Korea, 2012).\n\n"}
