{"id": "34314889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34314889", "title": "1972 Donegall Street bombing", "text": "1972 Donegall Street bombing\n\nThe Donegall Street bombing took place in Belfast, Northern Ireland on 20 March 1972 when the Provisional IRA detonated a massive car bomb in Lower Donegall Street in the city centre just before noon when the street was crowded with shoppers, office workers, and many schoolchildren.\n\nSeven people were killed in the explosion, including two members of the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), who said they had evacuated people to what was considered to have been a safe area following misleading telephone calls, which had originally placed the device in a nearby street. They asserted that when the last call finally identified Donegall Street as the site of the bomb, there wasn't enough time to clear the street. The Provisional IRA Belfast Brigade admitted responsibility for the bomb, which also injured 148 people, but claimed that the security forces had deliberately misrepresented the warnings in order to maximise the casualties. This was one of the first car bombs the IRA used in their armed campaign.\n\nOn Monday 20 March 1972, at 11.45 a.m., a local carpet dealer received a telephone call with a warning that a bomb would explode in Belfast city centre's Church Street which was crowded with shoppers, office workers on lunch breaks, and schoolchildren. British Army troops and the RUC were alerted and immediately began to evacuate the people into nearby Lower Donegall Street. The second call to the \"Irish News\" newspaper seven minutes later also gave Church Street as the location for the device. When a final call came at 11.55 advising the Unionist \"News Letter\" newspaper that the bomb was instead placed outside its offices in Lower Donegall Street to where the crowds were being sent, the warning arrived too late for the security forces to clear the street. The staff working inside the \"News Letter\" were told by the caller that they had 15 minutes in which to leave the building, but they never had a chance to evacuate.\n\nAt 11.58 a.m. a gelignite bomb exploded inside a green Ford Cortina parked in the street outside the offices of the \"News Letter\", shaking the city centre with the force of its blast, and instantly killing the two RUC constables, Ernest McAllister (31) and Bernard O'Neill (36), who had been examining the vehicle. The remains of the two policemen's bodies, which had been blown to pieces, were allegedly found inside a nearby building. Minutes earlier they had been helping to escort people away from Church Street.\n\nThe powerful explosion sent a ball of flame rolling down the street and a pall of black smoke rose upwards. The blast wave ripped into the crowds of people who had run into Donegall Street for safety, tossing them in all directions and killing another four men outright: three of them, Ernest Dougan (39), James Macklin (30) and Samuel Trainor (39) were corporation binmen working in the area, and the fourth man was Sydney Bell (65). Trainor was also an off-duty Ulster Defence Regiment (UDR) soldier and a member of the Orange Order. A seriously wounded pensioner, Henry Miller (79) would die in hospital on 5 April. Most of the bodies of the dead were mutilated beyond recognition; one of the binmen lay in the road with his head shattered. With the exception of Constable O'Neill, who had been a Catholic, the other six victims were Protestants.\n\nThe explosion blew out all the windows in the vicinity, sending shards of glass into people's faces and bodies as they were hit by falling masonry and timber; severed limbs were hurled into the road and into the mangled front of an office building. The ground floor of the \"News Letter\" offices and all buildings in the area suffered heavy damage. The \"News Letter\" library in particular sustained considerable damage with many priceless photographs and old documents destroyed. Around the blast's epicentre, the street resembled a battlefield. About one hundred schoolgirls lay wounded on the rubble-strewn, bloody pavement covered in glass and debris, and screaming in pain and fright. A total of 148 people were injured in the explosion, 19 of them seriously, including people who had lost eyes and were badly maimed. Among the injured were many \"News Letter\" staff.\n\nOne of the wounded was a child whose injuries had been so severe that a rescue worker at the scene assumed the child had been killed. One young woman lost both legs; she was photographed by Derek Brind of the \"Associated Press\" as a British Paratrooper held her in his arms. Passerby Frank Heagan witnessed the explosion and came upon what was left of two binmen who had been \"blown to pieces\". He added that \"there was blood everywhere and people moaning and screaming. The street was full of girls and women all wandering around\". The injured could be heard screaming as the ambulances transported them to hospital; emergency amputations were performed at the scene. One policeman angrily denounced the attack by stating: \"This was a deliberate attempt to kill innocent people. The people who planted it must have known that people were being evacuated into its path\". Whilst the security forces and firemen pulled victims from the debris in Donegall Street, two more bombs went off elsewhere in the city centre; however, nobody was hurt in either attack. That same day in Derry, a British soldier, John Taylor, was shot dead by an IRA sniper. In Dublin, the IRA's Chief of Staff, Seán Mac Stíofáin, suffered burns to his face and hands after he had opened a letter bomb sent to him through the post. Cathal Goulding, head of the Official IRA, also received a letter bomb but escaped injury by having dismantled the device before it exploded.\n\nThis was amongst the first carbombs that the Provisional IRA had used during The Troubles in its militant campaign to force a British military withdrawal and reunite the six counties of Northern Ireland with the rest of the island of Ireland. It was part of the IRA's escalation of violence to avenge the Bloody Sunday killings in which 13 unarmed Catholic civilian men were killed by the British Army's Parachute Regiment when the latter opened fire during an anti-internment demonstration held in Derry on 30 January 1972.\n\nThe bombing had been carried out by a North Belfast unit of the Provisional IRA's Third Battalion Belfast Brigade. The OC of the Brigade at that time was the volatile Seamus Twomey, who had ordered and directed the attack. On 23 March, the IRA admitted responsibility for the bomb with one Belfast Brigade officer later telling a journalist \"I feel very bad when the innocent die\". The IRA, however, tempered the admission by claiming that the caller had given Donegall Street as the correct location for the bomb in all the telephone calls and that the security forces had deliberately evacuated the crowds from Church Street to maximise the casualties. The IRA's official statement claiming responsibility for the blast was released through the Irish Republican Publicity Bureau. It read as follows:\nProper and adequate warnings have been given before all our operations. This practice will continue. Several warnings have been changed by the British security forces in order to cause maximum civilian casualties. \"This was the principal factor for the tragic loss of life and heavy civilian casualties in Donegall Street on Monday last\". Tim Pat Coogan suggested that the IRA had overestimated the security forces' capacity to deal with multiple bomb scares, adding that in all probability, the caller had been young, nervous, and inexperienced. It was also alleged that the bombers had intended to leave the carbomb in Church Street but were unable to find a parking place and instead left it in Donegall Street.\n\nThe attack was condemned by church leaders in Ireland of all denominations. The Official IRA issued a statement disassociating itself from the bombing which it \"condemned in the strongest possible terms\".\n\nTwo days prior to the bombing, Bill Craig, former Minister of Home Affairs and founder and leader of the Unionist Vanguard movement, had held a rally at Belfast's Ormeau Park attended by 100,000 loyalists. There he had made the following speech that struck fear in many people from the Catholic community: \"We [Ulster Vanguard] must build up a dossier of the men and women who are a menace to this country. Because if and when the politicians fail us, it may be our job to liquidate the enemy\". The next day, 30,000 Catholics paraded through Belfast to Ormeau Park where they held their own rally in protest at Craig's threatening speech. Republican Labour Party leader Paddy Kennedy promised that any Protestant backlash against Catholics \"would be met by a counter-backlash by the Irish people\".\n\nAccording to Ed Moloney, the bombing had been considered a disaster for the IRA. Coming so soon after the horrific Abercorn Restaurant bombing which had killed two young Catholic women and maimed many others, the Donegall Street bombing caused them to lose considerable support from the Catholic and Nationalist community who recoiled from the carnage the bombing had wrought.\n\nThe IRA followed the Donegall Street attack two days later with a carbomb at a carpark adjacent to Great Victoria Street railway station and close to the Europa Hotel. Although seventy people were treated in hospital for injuries received mainly by flying glass, there were no deaths. The blast caused considerable damage to two trains, parked vehicles, the hotel, and other buildings in the area.\n\nOn 24 March, to the profound shock and anger of loyalists and Unionists, British Prime Minister Edward Heath announced the suspension of the 50-year-old Stormont parliament and the imposition of Direct Rule from London.\n\nThe Donegall Street bombing led to the closure of traffic in the Royal Avenue shopping district and the erection of security gates which put a \"ring of steel\" around Belfast city centre.\n\nAlthough many members of IRA Active Service Units were rounded up by police in the wake of the attack, none of the bombers were ever caught nor was anybody ever charged in connection with the bombing.\n\nIn her 1973 book \"To Take Arms: My Life With the IRA Provisionals\", former IRA member Maria McGuire described her sentiments following the Donegall Street bombing,I admit at the time I did not connect with the people who were killed or injured in such explosions. I always judged such deaths in terms of the effect they would have on our support - and I felt that this in turn depended on how many people accepted our explanation.\n"}
{"id": "39155014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39155014", "title": "2012 NIS public opinion manipulation scandal", "text": "2012 NIS public opinion manipulation scandal\n\n2012 NIS public opinion manipulation scandal around the 2012 South Korean presidential election that includes two major allegations. First, a female agent was claimed to have manipulated public opinion to help Park Geun-hye's presidential election under the command of the NIS. Second, the director of National Intelligence Service commanded a NIS agent to manipulate public opinion.\n\nThe first allegation was claimed before South Korean presidential election, 2012, but it was unverified before the election. Even though the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency found this allegation was true before the election, the police chief Kim Yong-pan ordered Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency not to announce the evidences. The Agency announced that they did not find any illegal activities, which is against the collected evidences, three days before the election, which turned out to have a substantial impact on the election.\n\nDemocratic United Party claimed that the NIS manipulated public opinion in support for Park Geun-hye's presidential campaign on December 11.\n\nAfter the election, the South Korean Police alleged that an agent of Korean National Intelligence Service, Kim Ha Young, posted articles and cast votes to articles on politically sensitive topics in the Todayhumor website.\n\nOn April 30, prosecutors raided the headquarters of the South Korean National Intelligence Service.\n\nOn June 12, the head of the South Korean National Intelligence Service Won Sei-hoon and the head of the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency Kim Yong-pan were prosecuted for interfering in the election. In 2015 Supreme Court acquitted Kim of charges of abusing his power to manipulate the investigation.\n\nIn 2016, a prosecutors' investigation had turned up evidence that the NIS has been effectively orchestrating the activities of conservative groups since the administration of former president Lee Myung-bak (2008–2013). The evidence shows that the NIS has been involved not only in political advertisements that conservative groups have run in newspapers but also in their plans to hold one-person protests and to hand out pamphlets. \"An agent surnamed Park who was on the NIS's psychological warfare team supported and supervised right-wing conservative organizations and right-wing youth organizations.”\n\n\"[Former President Roh] must be a martyr, who committed a suicide after taking bribes.\"\n\"We should not elect someone who is mentally unstable as our leader.\"\n\"President Roh was full of scandals, his legacy consists of political dichotomy, the anti-USA attitude, pro-North Korea attitude.\"\n\"President Roh's suicide is nothing but an explosion of anger at himself as he was blaming his people for taking bribes and subsequent government prosecution.\"\n\"Roh committed so much crime looking back. he should have lived a better life. Why do you regret now that you are dead? Commies, treat them better while they are still alive.\"\n"}
{"id": "52959127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52959127", "title": "Access to public information in Moldova", "text": "Access to public information in Moldova\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. \n\nAccess to information, just as media independence and pluralism remain critical issues in the Republic of Moldova. Despite numerous calls for media legislation reform, the government of Moldova has not made significant steps to improve access to information according to the country's international obligations, including a convention with the Council of Europe. Public officials widely impede access to public information through refusals, delays or incomplete answers, without sanctions. In 2014, the Independent Journalism Center (IJC) presented to Parliament amendments to improve the law on access to information, provide additional guarantees for journalists and limit unjustified limitations of access to public information by public officials. However, the draft law has not yet been adopted. According to the Executive Director of the Association of Independent Press, Petru Macovei, overall the law on access to information is good, but it is compromised by a non-collaborative attitude of the public authorities.\n\nThe right to access public information in guaranteed by Article 34 of the Moldovan Constitution and is regulated by the Law on Access to Information which was adopted in 2000. The law establishes that information of public interest can be requested in writing or orally. Information can be consulted at the institution’s premises or can be received stored in an electronic support or in hardcopy. Viewing documents on the institution’s premises is free of charge, while reasonable fees can be charged for the cost of photocopying, transcribing, translating or delivering the documents. According to the law, documents of public interest must be provided within 15 working days, which can be extended by five days in case of requests of large numbers of documents. If the request is rejected, the applicant can exercise its right of appeal to the relevant courts, and if the court decides on behalf of the applicant, the law imposes penalties in form of fines to the government body which has violated the law. Exceptions justifying limitation to the disclosure regime are specified in the law and include state secrets, information on the military, intelligence, economic, foreign policy or criminal proceedings, information concerning ongoing lawsuit, personal data, confidential business data, and preliminary results of scientific and technical research.\n\nIn practice, compliance with the Law on Access to Information remains weak just as its implementation which is not supported by the full authority of the bodies responsible for its enforcement. The Ombudsman in Moldova has the authority to supervise the implementation of the law, but this office lacks the capacity and the resources to exercise its role. Investigative journalists and civil society organisations face numerous difficulties when requesting access to public information, including obstruction by public officials, refusals and delays in replying to requests, as well as incomplete responses to requests for information. To justify their denials, public officials frequently cite laws that conflict with the Law on Access to Information, in particular the Law on State Secrets and the Law on Trade Secrets.\n\nOne of the problem in enforcing the right to access public information is impunity, meaning that the law establishes only insignificant fines on public offices who fail to provide due access to information. Also, in many cases, the information provided by state bodies is shaped in the officials' favor, giving the impression that authorities are behaving in compliance with the law, while in fact depriving the requester the information they are seeking. Moreover, in many cases officials do not provide public interest information without the approval from a supervisor and often refuse to answers telephone calls from journalists, thus increasing the time for getting the required information.\n\nAnother problem concerns the costs for obtaining public information and the fees charged to the requester, despite some improvements made recently, such as the introduction of a public register through the E-Government service in 2014. This affects in particular newsrooms and investigative journalists that must pay large sums of money for getting data useful for their investigative work.\n\n"}
{"id": "14110371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14110371", "title": "Agricultural Sector Alliance of the Philippines", "text": "Agricultural Sector Alliance of the Philippines\n\nThe Agricultural Sector Alliance of the Philippines, Inc. (AGAP) is a party-list in the Philippines. In the 14 May 2007 election, the party originally won 3 seats in the nationwide party-list vote but 2 of them were disqualified. In the 2010, AGAP one 1 seat, down from 2, while in the next election, they regained a seat with 592,463 (2.14% of the popular vote), the most successful election AGAP has had so far.\n"}
{"id": "30405970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30405970", "title": "AquaPedia", "text": "AquaPedia\n\nAquaPedia is free, web-based, collaborative self-learning repository of interactive and searchable water case studies from across the planet for information and analysis of water conflicts. It was developed at Tufts University in 2008.\n\nAquaPedia has the goal of sharing water conflict case studies that integrate information from the science/engineering aspects with understanding of the societal/cultural issues that are also integral to the framing and solution of the problem \n\nAquaPedia is currently in a beta testing phase with contributions from academics. Case studies are categorized within the framework of 6 variables from two domains (natural/societal). The natural domain contributes: water quantity, quality, and ecosystem constraints. The societal domain contributes the interactions between values and norms, economic considerations, and governance structures \n\nLike traditional wiki-style sites, anyone can contribute water case studies or potential revisions; however, AquaPedia editors review these submissions prior to being added to the website to ensure accuracy \n\n"}
{"id": "18913292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18913292", "title": "Background of the Russo-Georgian War", "text": "Background of the Russo-Georgian War\n\nThis article describes the background of the Russo-Georgian War.\n\nIn the ninth century, the principality of Abkhazia expanded over western Georgia, and became the Kingdom of Abkhazia, whose capital was in Kutaisi. It soon replaced Greek with the Georgian language. Georgia was first created in the tenth century, defined as the lands in which church services and prayers were held in the Georgian language. The Abkhaz kingdom led the expansionist policy and soon enlarged its realm to the east. In 978 the Abkhaz kingdom and the Kingdom of Georgia unified through dynastic succession. The unification of Georgia was completed when the Emirate of Tbilisi was incorporated into Georgia, and became its capital in 1122. However, after the Mongol invasions, Georgia eventually was broken up into several principalities. In 1801, the east Georgian kingdom was annexed by the Russian Empire and became the Tiflis Governorate. The regions of western Georgia (including Abkhazia) were incorporated into Kutaisi Governorate. After the Russian Revolution of 1917, Georgia declared its independence on 26 May 1918. Although its independence was recognized by Russia in May 1920, the Russian Bolsheviks invaded independent Georgia in 1921.\n\nGeorgia had three autonomous territories in Soviet times: Abkhazia, Adjara, and South Ossetia. Only with Adjara, populated by Muslim Georgians, was there a pronounced religious difference. However, Adjarians and other Georgians share a common language and in fact many common elements of identity with the exception of religion. This seems to have been a factor in the prevention of the escalation of conflict between Tbilisi and Batumi. On the other hand, South Ossetians and the majority of Abkhaz are Orthodox Christians, whereas all the other determinants of ethnic identity separated them from the Georgians. Despite this fact, the conflicts between the Georgian central government and these territories were severe and violent.\n\nThe first Soviet republic to leave the Soviet Union was Georgia. Relations with Russia have been fraught since Georgia proclaimed its independence in 1991. Georgia has always been skeptical toward the Commonwealth of Independent States and of Russian intentions, and attracted to strategic partnership with the United States.\n\nThe Ossetians are an Indo-European ethnic group descended from the Alans, one of the Sarmatian tribes, and speaking the Ossetian language which is an Iranian language similar to the Pathan language spoken in Afghanistan. The timing of the Ossetian arrival in the South Caucasus is debated. One recent theory holds that they settled there during the 13th and 14th Centuries AD after being driven there by Mongol invaders and Timur's armies.\n\nHistorically, Ossetians and Georgians have lived together more or less peacefully and often intermarrying. When the Ossetians first came into contact with Tsarist Russia, geography and religion have since given the Ossetians a pro-Russian orientation. Ossetians joined both the tsarist and Soviet army massively; they take pride in having produced more heroes of the Soviet Union per head of population than other Soviet peoples.\n\nThe Soviet Georgian government, established after the Red Army invasion of Georgia in 1921, created the South Ossetian Autonomous Oblast in April 1922 under pressure from (the Caucasian Bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian Communist Party). Some historians believe that autonomy was granted to the Ossetians by the Bolsheviks in return for their assistance in fighting against independent Georgia, since this territory had never been a separate entity. Ossetians moved in large numbers to Tskhinvali, which used to have a larger population of Jews and Armenians than of Ossetians. North and South Ossetia were linked for the first time only in 1985 when the Roki Tunnel was opened.\n\nSouth Ossetians and Georgians lived side by side for centuries without extensive friction. However, during the Soviet time, the region preferred to interact with the Soviet leadership in Moscow and lacked personal ties to the Georgian leadership. Within South Ossetia, Georgian and Ossetian villages were mixed. Around 65 thousand Ossetians lived in South Ossetia, while 100 thousand lived in Georgia proper. Ossetians living in Georgia proper were fluent in the Georgian language, and spoke it better than other minorities living in Georgia. South Ossetia had a Georgian ethnic minority of around 28,500 out of the total population of 98,500 in 1989.\n\nThe Abkhaz are an ethnic group related to the Circassian groups of the North Caucasus. After the Russian Revolution of 1917, Abkhazia shifted between Bolshevik and Menshevik control before finally being conquered by the Bolshevik-controlled Red Army in 1921. In 1922, the Bolsheviks agreed to designate Abkhazia as a treaty republic within the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic, granting the region considerable autonomy. However, in 1931, Abkhazia was downgraded to the status an autonomous republic within Georgia. After 1936, a severe policy of Georgianization, apparently at Joseph Stalin's whim, was enacted. Most political posts were given to Georgians, and mass immigration of non-Abkhaz peoples ensued, diluting the Abkhaz community to a meager 18% of Abkhazia's overall population by 1939.\n\nThe inclusion of Abkhazia as an ASSR within Soviet Georgia in 1931 was seen as illegal act carried out by the \"Georgian Stalin\" by the Abkhaz. However, the Abkhaz SSR was not the only such entity that was downgraded to an autonomous position. The institution of an Abkhaz SSR would indeed have been an anomaly in Soviet nationality theory, mainly as SSR status was only granted to substantially sized nations with a significant degree of national identity. However, from the perspective of Moscow at the time, the retaining of SSR status of Abkhazia would be prejudicial unless the same status were granted to the national minorities of the North Caucasus. Although the Kremlin might have wanted to weaken Georgia by such a step, it would have potentially grave consequences for Russia itself.\n\nAbkhazia's comparative wealth enabled the Abkhaz people to extract considerable concessions from the Soviet governance. Although the Soviets repeatedly refused to grant Abkhazia separation from Georgia, they did give the Abkhaz increased autonomy and economic credits to improve their infrastructure. During the 1970s the Abkhaz gained increasing control of Abkhazia's administration, the control of ethnic Georgians likewise decreasing, and by the 1980s the Abkhaz filled 67% of the government's minister positions and 71% of the Oblast committee department head positions. Considering that the Abkhaz minority within Abkhazia had by 1989 fallen to just 17.9%, this would indicate that the Abkhaz held a disproportionate share of the high-level administration.\n\nGrowing prominence of the Abkhaz people angered Georgians living in Abkhazia who claimed they were being denied privileges. This rift precipitated the so-called \"ethnic battles\" of the 1970s and 80s which, although fought between different ethnic groups, were largely economic in nature. The Abkhaz viewed the Georgians as would-be defectors from the Soviet Union, whereas the Georgians criticized the Abkhaz for supporting the Soviet Union. The other ethnic groups living in Abkhazia tended to prefer maintaining the status quo, and thereby the Soviet Union, and thus tacitly supported the Abkhaz factions.\n\nHistorically, the Caucasus has been an area over which empires have competed; it has served both as bridge and barrier to contacts between north and south, and between east and west. Its crucial geopolitical location - lying between the regional powers: Russia, Iran, and Turkey - is a \"mixed blessing\". Russian interests in the region can be viewed as following. The South Caucasus forms a \"buffer zone\" between the North Caucasus and the Middle East to its South; the region is bordering Turkey and Iran. This is a region where Russia feels \"vulnerable\". The South Caucasus is also a zone of important economic interests. If the South Caucasus is controlled by Russia, it enables Moscow to control the amount of Western influence in the geopolitically crucial Central Asia. Russia fought two wars in Chechnya to defend its frontier. According to Vladimir Putin, \"Russia has been playing a positive, stabilizing role in this part of the world, in the Caucasus as a whole, for centuries. It has been a guarantor of security, cooperation, and progress in this region.\"\n\nGeorgia had two strategic characteristics that were seen as irreplaceable in Moscow: the border with Turkey and the location on the Black Sea. Russia is more worried of Turkish than Iranian influence in the Caucasus, and perceives Turkey as a threat in the political, economical and military fields. The Russian ruling elites had focused on Georgia since the days of the presidency of Eduard Shevardnadze, whom they blamed, together with Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev and Alexander Yakovlev, Central Committee Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, for the dissolution of the Soviet Union and its sphere of influence. Russian post-Soviet security establishments also viewed the Abkhaz coastline and illicit business opportunities provided by lawless Abkhazia and South Ossetia as additional incentives for deep involvement in Georgia. Of the two regions - Abkhazia and South Ossetia, the first is strategically and economically more significant to Russia. In the 1990s the Russian leadership noted that their strategic weight in the Black Sea depended on the presence of Russian troops on the Black Sea coast of the Caucasus. Russia hoped to use South Ossetia initially to keep Georgia within the Soviet Union and later in a Russian sphere of influence.\n\nFor much of the 1990s, Russia was unable to restore its influence over Georgia. This changed when Vladimir Putin became the Russian president in 2000 and the recovery of Russian economy allowed Russia to begin rebuilding influence over its neighbours.\n\nBuilding close political ties with Georgia as opposed to the confrontation of the latter with Russia, gave the United States an opportunity to create a counterbalance to Russian dominance in the Caucasus.\n\nGeorgia maintained a close relationship with the G.W. Bush administration of the United States of America. In 2002, the USA started the Georgia Train and Equip Program to arm and train the Georgian military, and, in 2005, a Georgia Sustainment and Stability Operations Program to broaden capabilities of the Georgian armed forces to sustain its contribution in the Global War on Terrorism.\n\nThe United States Department of State described Georgia as \"an anchor for regional stability and prosperity,\" despite the fact that Freedom House had downgraded Georgia's democracy ranking after 2007. In 2008 Freedom House ranked the quality of Georgian democracy as lower than it was under President Eduard Shevardnadze.\n\nAlthough Georgia has no significant oil or gas reserves of its own, its territory hosts part of the important Baku–Tbilisi–Ceyhan pipeline transit route that supplies Europe. The pipeline transports of oil per day. Russia, Iran and Persian Gulf countries were against the construction of the BTC pipeline. Operations of the pipeline started up first in Azerbaijan with the beginning of line fill at the head pump station at the Sangachal Terminal on 10 May 2005. It has been a key factor for the United States' support for Georgia, allowing the West to reduce its reliance on Middle Eastern oil while bypassing Russia and Iran.\n\nRussian envoy to NATO Dmitry Rogozin claimed the United States could have plans to use Georgian airfields to launch air strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities. Rogozin said that Russian intelligence had obtained information indicating that Washington had plans to use the Georgian military infrastructure for a war on Iran, stating that the US had already started \"active military preparations on Georgia's territory\" for such a strike and that the \"reason why Washington values Saakashvili's regime so highly\" was that he gave permission to the US to use its airfields. The Russian envoy's claims followed a UPI report that \"a secret agreement between Georgia and Israel had earmarked two military airfields in the south of Georgia for use by Israeli fighter-bombers in a potential pre-emptive strike against Iran.\"\n\nDuring the collapse of the USSR, Georgia's first post-Soviet leader, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, emerged. The platform, known as \"Georgia for Georgians\", projected ethnic Georgians, who made up 70 percent of the population, as the country's true masters. A longtime anti-Soviet dissident, he derided South Ossetians as newcomers, saying they had arrived only 600 years ago and as \"tools\" of the Soviet Union.\n\nAmidst rising ethnic tensions, war broke out when Georgian forces entered the capital of South Ossetia, Tskhinvali. Military conflict began in January 1991, and urban warfare in Tskhinvali lasted until June 1992. More than 2,000 people are believed to have been killed in the war. The separatists were helped by former Soviet military units, who by now had come under Russian command. Approximately 100,000 Ossetians fled Georgia proper and South Ossetia, while 23,000 Georgians left South Ossetia. A ceasefire agreement (the Sochi Agreement) was reached on 24 June 1992. While it ended the war, it did not deal with the status of South Ossetia. A Joint Control Commission for Georgian–Ossetian Conflict Resolution and peacekeeping force, composed of Russian, Georgian and Ossetian troops, was set up. The Ossetian \"de facto\" government controlled the region independently from Tbilisi. The JPKF's activities were mainly concentrated in the Conflict Zone, which included an area within a 15-km radius from Tskhinvali.\n\nThe separatists retained control over the districts of Tskhinvali, Java, Znauri and parts of Akhalgori. The Georgian central government controlled the rest of Akhalgori and the Georgian villages in the Tskhinvali district.\n\nTensions grew in 1989 when the ethnic Abkhaz population of Abkhazia gathered in the village of Lykhny to declare their demand for separation from Georgia and inclusion in the Russian Federation. Gamsakhurdia's pro-Georgian movement responded with counter-demonstrations of its own, as the region splintered over ethnic ties. On August 25, 1990, the Abkhaz Supreme Soviet declared itself a union republic within the Soviet Union, a move which Tbilisi immediately rejected. The Abkhaz, like the South Ossetians, strongly favoured the continuation of the Soviet Union and distrusted the Georgian leadership; 99% of the Abkhaz voting in the referendum voted in favor of maintaining the Soviet Union in March 1991.\n\nIn August 1992, war broke out when the Georgian National Guard entered Abkhazia to rescue captive Georgian officials and to reopen the railway line. Georgian soldiers marched straight to Sukhumi and seized government buildings and looted the city. Eduard Shevardnadze, Georgia's leader, was reluctant to condemn the national guard's commander, Tengiz Kitovani, who allegedly led the incursion into Sukhumi unauthorized. For the Georgian government, far more was at stake in Abkhazia than in South Ossetia: a quarter of a million ethnic Georgians, a large part of territory, most of the Georgian Black Sea coastline - in addition to a great deal of pride and historical attachment. Russian military assisted the Abkhaz separatists. The war lasted until Russia negotiated a ceasefire in July 1993 with the Sochi Agreement. However, the ceasefire was broken in September of that year as the Abkhaz stormed and overwhelmed Sukhumi, which fell on 27 September. Most members of the Georgian government that had stayed in the parliament building, were killed. Following a process of ethnic cleansing of Georgians, the population of Abkhazia was reduced to 216,000, from 525,000 in 1989. On 4 April 1994, the Declaration on Measures for a Political Settlement of the Georgian-Abkhaz Conflict was signed, and one month later a CIS peacekeeping force was deployed in the region. Later, the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG) deployed its observers in the south of Abkhazia.\n\nSimilar to South Ossetia, an unrecognised government did not control the entire territory of Abkhazia.\n\nSince the 1990s, the situation in Georgia was monitored by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe mission in Georgia.\n\nThe conflict remained frozen until 2004, when Mikheil Saakashvili came to power after Georgia's Rose Revolution, which ousted president Eduard Shevardnadze. In the years that followed, Saakashvili's government pushed a programme to strengthen state institutions, and created \"passably democratic institutions\" and implemented what was viewed as a pro-US foreign policy. One of Saakashvili's main goals was Georgian NATO membership, which Russia opposed. This has been one of the main stumbling blocks in Georgia-Russia relations. Russia viewed Georgia's deepening ties with NATO, the EU and the U.S. as a threat to its security, and employed political and economic levers against Georgia.\n\nRestoring South Ossetia and Abkhazia to Georgian control had been a top-priority goal of Saakashvili since he came to power. Saakashvili's relations with Russia deteriorated as he quickly re-established control over Adjara and declared his intention to reintegrate Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Emboldened by the success in restoring control in Adjara in early 2004, the Georgian government launched a push to retake South Ossetia. Intense fighting took place between Georgian forces and South Ossetian militia between 8 and 19 August 2004. According to researcher Sergei Markedonov, the brief war in 2004 was a turning point for Russian policy in the region: Russia, which had previously aimed only to preserve the status-quo, now felt that the security of the whole Caucasus depended on the situation in South Ossetia, and took the side of South Ossetia.\n\nSince 2006, Georgia's total military spending as percentage of GDP was higher than Russia's. According to the 2007 report of Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), Georgia had the highest average growth rate of military spending in the world. Tbilisi stated that it was not aimed at the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. According to the 2008 budget of Georgia, defence funding accounted for slightly over 19% of all state spending, with a further significant increase approved in an parliament session on 15 July 2008.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2008, Georgia has repeatedly proposed broad autonomy for Abkhazia and South Ossetia within the unified Georgian state, but the proposals were rejected by the secessionist authorities, who demanded full independence. In 2006 Georgia sent security forces to the Kodori Gorge in eastern Abkhazia, when a local militia leader rebelled against the Georgian authorities. The presence of Georgian forces in the Kodori Gorge continued until the war in 2008.\n\nIn July 2006, the Georgian parliament passed a resolution demanding the removal of all Russian peacekeeping forces from Abkhazia, but the forces did not withdraw. In 2007, the Georgian government set up what Russians said was a \"puppet government\" led by the former South Ossetian prime minister Dmitry Sanakoyev and granted to it a status of a provisional administration, alarming Tskhinvali and Moscow. In what Sergei Markedonov has described as the culmination of Georgian \"unfreezing\" policy, the control of the Georgian peacekeeping battalion was transferred from the joint command of the peacekeeping forces to the Georgian Defence Ministry.\n\nPresident Saakashvili promised to bring the breakaway regions back under Georgian control during his re-election campaign in 2008.\n\nIn 1994, Georgia joined the Partnership for Peace, a NATO program. In November 2002, Georgia declared before the NATO Summit in Prague that it intended to secure membership in NATO and sought an Individual Partnership Action Plan (IPAP). However, to join NATO, Georgia was required to update its military to the organization's standards. To perform such reforms, it was estimated that Georgia had to increase its military spending to 2% of its GDP. After Georgia's Rose Revolution in 2003, the Tbilisi government placed integration with the West, especially NATO and the European Union, as top priority.\n\nIn 2005, President Mikheil Saakashvili predicted that Georgia would join NATO by 2009. Georgia sought membership in NATO for reasons of both security and its own development as a state. Georgia's Deputy Defence Minister Levan Nikoleishvili stated in an interview in 2006, \"We look to Nato as a club and as an organisation, which will not only be a guarantee for security but will also be a guarantee for development for us.\" Georgia believed that Alliance membership would bring an end to Russian dominance in the region and the Abkhaz and South Ossetian conflicts would be resolved.\n\nGeorgia conducted a NATO membership referendum on 5 January 2008. It was a non-binding referendum on whether to join NATO and was held at the request of the Georgian President, together with an early presidential election and legislative election date referendum. This was announced on November 26, 2007, shortly before Mikheil Saakashvili resigned as President of Georgia for the early presidential elections. The referendum asked: \"do you want Georgia to become a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO?\" According to the official results of Georgia's Central Election Commission, 77% of voters were in favor. On 14 February 2008, at a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the head of Georgia's mission to NATO handed him a formal request from President Mikheil Saakashvili to invite Georgia to participate in a Membership Action Plan (MAP).\n\nBy the time of the Bucharest summit in April 2008, it was evident that the majority of the European NATO countries were not ready to support the American lead and offer MAP to Ukraine and Georgia, although the US president George W. Bush himself was lobbying both Georgia and Ukraine. The Russian campaign of pressure and threat had likely contributed to that outcome. Germany and France said that offering membership plan to Ukraine and Georgia would be \"an unnecessary offense\" to Russia. At the summit, the alliance did not offer a MAP to Georgia or Ukraine. The opponents of Ukraine and Georgia pointed out that internal conflicts existed there. However, NATO pledged to review the applications for MAP in December 2008. NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said that Georgia and Ukraine would become members eventually. Georgia welcomed the decision and said: \"The decision to accept that we are going forward to an adhesion to NATO was taken and we consider this is a historic success\".\n\nAfter the war, the obliteration of Georgia's military power and the heightened insecurity of its borders made some NATO member countries – particularly Western European ones – less willing to extend a membership Action Plan (MAP) to Georgia, and also questioned NATO membership for Ukraine. Some European countries, like Germany and France, were already resisting to the idea of giving a NATO membership assurance to a country with an open dispute with Russia.\n\nRussia's concerns over NATO expansion derive from its Cold War reflexes. Russia continues to view NATO as primarily a \"military\" alliance. According to official Russian military doctrine, the presence of foreign forces near Russia's territory, including in the former Soviet space, constitutes a threat. By barring NATO from the South Caucasus, Russia reserves the right to militarily intervene in the region without fear of an allied response under Article 5 of the NATO Charter.\n\nIn 2006, the Russian Foreign Ministry stated that the \"possible accession of Georgia to an unreformed NATO would seriously affect Russian interests,\" especially its political, military, and economic interests, and \"would have a negative impact on the fragile situation in the Caucasus\". As Moscow-based military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer contended, countries such as Poland, the Baltic states, and Georgia all sought to join NATO \"to have a guarantee against the Russians.\" As Felgenhauer noted, \"that makes NATO and Russia basically enemies. In a sense they are on a collision course. So a real partnership is hardly possible and any expansion of NATO is seen, in Russia, in Moscow, as a threat to our interests.\"\n\nOn 4 April 2008, Russian President Putin at the end of the Bucharest summit said that the alliance's plan to invite Georgia and Ukraine \"didn’t contribute to trust and predictability in our relations\". He also said that expansion of NATO to Russia's borders \"would be taken in Russia as a direct threat to the security of our country\". On the same day in Bucharest and two days later in Sochi, Vladimir Putin privately told president George Bush that if Ukraine entered NATO, Russia would detach eastern Ukraine (and likely the Crimean Peninsula) and annex them and, thus, Ukraine would \"cease to exist as a state\". Putin also warned Bush that if Georgia moved toward NATO membership, Russia might recognize Abkhazia and South Ossetia.\n\nIn June 2008, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev warned Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili that the conflict between their two respective states would be deepened if Georgia were to join NATO.\n\nOn 31 May 2002, Russia adopted the Law on Russian Federation Citizenship, that made obtaining of Russian citizenship by residents of ex-Soviet republics easier. Many residents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia applied for citizenship voluntarily. In 2008 the majority of the residents of South Ossetia were Russian citizens holding Russian passports. According to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, he would \"protect the life and dignity of Russian citizens wherever they are\". From the viewpoint of Russian constitutional law, the legal position of Russian passport-holders in South Ossetia is the same as that of Russian citizens living in Russia. According to an EU report, this position is inconsistent with international law (which considers the vast majority of allegedly-naturalised persons as not Russian citizens).\n\nIn 2005, Georgia accused Russia of the annexation of its internationally recognized territory. Russian officials had \"de facto\" control of South Ossetia's institutions, including security institutions and forces; South Ossetia's \"de facto\" government was largely staffed with Russians and South Ossetians with Russian passports, who had occupied equivalent government positions in Russia. Reuters reported that before the war, Russia supplied two-thirds of South Ossetia's annual budget, and that Russia's state-controlled gas giant Gazprom was building new gas pipelines and infrastructure worth of 15 billion Russian rubles there.\n\nIn mid-April, 2008, the Russian Foreign Ministry announced that Russian president Vladimir Putin had given instructions to the federal government whereby Russia would pursue economic and administrative relations with Abkhazia and South Ossetia as with the subjects of Russia. In 2008, as Russian pressure increased, Georgia began calling for internationalization of the peacekeeping forces in the separatist regions. Georgia argued that Russia had become a party to the conflict. The West took notice and launched renewed peace efforts. Germany, the EU, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) all offered revised peace plans or sponsored peace conferences. The German peace plan for Abkhazia was accepted by Georgia but rejected by the Abkhaz separatists. Russia and the separatists failed to appear at an EU-sponsored peace conference on Abkhazia and rejected an OSCE suggestion for renewed negotiations on South Ossetia.\n\nOn 14 July 2007, Russian president Vladimir Putin issued a decree suspending the application of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe that limits the number of heavy weapons deployed in Europe. The decree would be effective 150 days later. The suspension meant that Russia would no longer allow inspections or exchange data on its deployments. In December 2007, Russia suspended its implementation of the original CFE Treaty. The Russian government no longer provides information on its treaty-limited equipment and prevents inspections.\n\nAccording to The Daily Telegraph, in 2007 Russian President Vladimir Putin announced plans for a £100 billion arms program over the next seven years for the financing of new, modern weapons and ordered military chiefs to 'strengthen the battle-readiness of the army and navy'. Russia's defence budget rose 22% in 2007.\n\nConcurrently with the Georgia/USA military exercise Immediate Response 2008, the Russian forces conducted their own exercise, Caucasus 2008, where they practiced rapid response to the terrorist incursions through the Russian southern border. It was reported that the Russian paratroopers would train near the Roksky and Mamison passes. The Roksky pass is the major link with South Ossetia. Both sides claimed that the exercises were unrelated to each other. Later Dale Herspring, an expert on Russian military affairs at Kansas State University, described the Russian exercise as \"exactly what they executed in Georgia just a few weeks later [...] a complete dress rehearsal.\"\n\nIn March 2008 \"Time magazine\" predicted that \"By splitting the West and the wider international community, the U.S.-backed declaration of independence by Kosovo has given Russia an opening. Countries concerned with separatist problems of their own, from Spain or Cyprus to China, have been unable to follow the U.S. lead in recognizing Kosovo's breakaway from Serbia. And Russia has sought to exploit the gaps that have emerged as a result.\" They went on to say \"Russia [...] tacitly supported breakaway provinces [...] Moscow has also granted Russian citizenship to some 90% of the Abkhazian and South Ossetian populations, giving it grounds to intervene whenever Russia deems it expedient, on the basis of ensuring the security of its citizens.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1916554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916554", "title": "Backup validation", "text": "Backup validation\n\nBackup validation is the process whereby owners of computer data may examine how their data was backed up in order to understand what their risk of data loss might be. It also speaks to optimization of such processes, charging for them as well as estimating future requirements, sometimes called capacity planning.\n\nOver the past several decades (leading up to 2005), organizations (banks, governments, schools, manufacturers and others) have increased their reliance more on \"Open Systems\" and less on \"Closed Systems\". For example, 25 years ago, a large bank might have most if not all of its critical data housed in an IBM mainframe computer (a \"Closed System\"), but today, that same bank might store a substantially greater portion of its critical data in spreadsheets, databases, or even word processing documents (i.e., \"Open Systems\"). The problem with Open Systems is, primarily, their unpredictable nature. The very nature of an Open System is that it is exposed to potentially thousands if not millions of variables ranging from network overloads to computer virus attacks to simple software incompatibility. Any one, or indeed several in combination, of these factors may result in either lost data and/or compromised data backup attempts. These types of problems do not generally occur on Closed Systems, or at least, in unpredictable ways. In the \"old days\", backups were a nicely contained affair. Today, because of the ubiquity of, and dependence upon, Open Systems, an entire industry has developed around data protection. Three key elements of such data protection are Validation, Optimization and Chargeback.\n\nValidation is the process of finding out whether a backup attempt succeeded or not, or, whether the data is backed up enough to consider it \"protected\". This process usually involves the examination of log files, the \"smoking gun\" often left behind after a backup attempts takes place, as well as media databases, data traffic and even magnetic tapes. Patterns can be detected, key error messages identified and statistics extracted in order to determine which backups worked and which did not. According to Veeam Availability Report in 2014 organizations test their backups for recoverability on average every eight days. However, each quarter, organizations only test an average of 5.26 percent of their backups, meaning that the vast majority of backups are not verified,so could fail and cause downtime.\n\nOptimization is the process of examining productivity patterns in the process of backup to determine where improvements can be made and often, where certain (less important) backup jobs may be eliminated entirely.\n\nVery often, the service of backing up data is done by one person (or persons) in the service of others, the Owners of the data. Becoming more prevalent today also is the charging for those services back to the data Owner(s). A simple fee per backup might be agreed upon, or, as is more often the case, a complex charge based on success rates, speed, size, frequency and retention (how long the copy is kept) is put into place. Usually some form of service level agreement (SLA) is in place between the backup service provider and the data owner in which it is agreed what is to be done and how the service is to be charged for.\n\n"}
{"id": "18273077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18273077", "title": "Basil Parasiris", "text": "Basil Parasiris\n\nBasil Parasiris (born October 28, 1965) is a former Montreal-area businessman who was acquitted of a first-degree murder charge in the shooting death on March 2, 2007 of Sergeant Daniel Tessier, a Laval police officer.\n\nOn March 2, 2007, Laval police executed a search warrant at Basil Parasiris's home on a quiet Brossard street on Montreal's south shore. The warrant, authorized by justice Gaby Dumas, allowed Laval police to use \"dynamic entry\" – meant to surprise the person being investigated – to carry out their search for evidence. In general, dynamic entry is only allowed to be used in cases where there is a risk of a suspect destroying evidence if alerted that police are on the premises. The warrant was executed before dawn; a team of armed and plain clothed Laval police officers knocked down the door to Mr. Parasiris's home and rushed into his bedroom where he and his wife were sleeping. Unaware that they were police officers executing a search warrant, Mr. Parasiris assumed it was a home invasion. He rushed to his revolver and shot at the presumed invaders. The first shot fired hit constable Daniel Tessier in the head, the other pierced his heart. Tessier's partner, Stéphane Forbes, was also wounded by one of 4 bullets fired from Parasiris's revolver in the 30-second shootout with police as was Mr. Parasiris's wife Penny, as she fled to a closet. Mr. Parasiris's two children aged 15 and 7 were terrified at hearing gunfire in their home; the older son rushed to call 9-1-1, and was directed to stay put.\n\nCharged with first degree murder Parasiris stood for bail in front of Quebec Superior Court Justice Jean-Guy Boilard and represented by marquee Montreal lawyer, Frank Pappas. During his bail hearing, the judge focused on whether Mr. Parasiris was a risk to the community, or a risk to flee. Witnesses who testified for Mr. Parasiris claimed that Basil was honest and peaceful man. The judge suggested that the warrant the police executed on Basil's home did not constitute justifiable dynamic entry nor a predawn raid, and should have knocked prior to entering. During the bail process, Basil Parasiris claimed that he intentionally did fire his revolver at Sergeant Daniel Tesser under the impression that it was a robbery. He also claimed that he did not recognize Sergeant Tessier as a police officer until after he fell where the word, \"Police,\" was marked on the back of his vest. After testimony from witnesses and from Basil Parasiris, Justice Boilard came to the decision of allowing Basil to be given bail. Never before has a suspect in Canada believed to have been released on bail for the charge of first degree murder, according to Basil's lawyer Frank Pappas. His conditions included abiding by a curfew, living with his parents, and having a sister and cousin post $100,000.00 bond.\n\nAccording to media versions at the time of this shooting, the bullet that wounded Penny was fired from a police weapon. The police also fired several rounds into the children's bedroom.\n\nBasil Parasiris faced a variety of charges; including the attempted murder charge on Tessier's partner, Stephane Forbes, two weapons charges and first degree murder. On June 10, 2008 Quebec Judge Guy Cournoyer found that there was insufficient evidence to convict Mr. Parasiris of attempted murder or the weapons charges. Justice Cournoyer then ordered the jury to sequester and consider coming to a verdict only on the murder charge.\nOn Friday June 13, 2008, the jury reached a not guilty verdict on the charge of first degree murder of a police officer. The jury suggested that there was reasonable ground to believe that Mr. Parasiris acted in self-defence believing the police officers who he thought were attackers were going to harm his wife and children while the Judge deemed that the search warrant which was used to enter Mr. Parasiris's suburban home was illegal.\n\nMany cited this tragic case as the result of police errors that could have been avoided. Laval police Chief Jean-Pierre Gariépy expressed dismay at the verdict, citing the reasons why the officers were at Mr. Parasiris's home to begin with. Chief Gariépy assured that he would suggest to the Quebec's Public Security Department that they review the policies and procedures behind the use of dynamic entry on search warrants to avoid such complications again in the near future. Thousands of police officers from Quebec and elsewhere in Canada marched on the day of Daniel Tessier's funeral to protest his death. Mr. Parasiris claims that the police are trying to cover their mistakes in his case, and attempting to frame him as a drug kingpin. He is also considering filing a lawsuit against the Laval police for defamation of character.\n\nOn Tuesday July 27, 2010, police in Laval, Quebec announced they were countersuing Mr. Parasiris, believing that there was enough evidence to pursue him for damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2995466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2995466", "title": "Campaign Against Arms Trade", "text": "Campaign Against Arms Trade\n\nCampaign Against Arms Trade (CAAT) is a UK-based NGO and campaigning organisation working towards the abolition of the international arms trade. It was founded in 1974 by a coalition of peace groups.\n\nCAAT has been involved in several campaigns, particularly its legal challenge against the Serious Fraud Office's decision to suspend a corruption investigation into BAE Systems in 2007. On 27 September 2012, it was honoured with a Right Livelihood Award for its \"innovative and effective campaigning\".\n\nCAAT's campaigns are founded on a programme of detailed research into the arms trade and arms companies, and their relationship with the UK government and military, through political, financial and military support. The focus is on arms exports, although CAAT recognises that there is a close relationship with military procurement.\n\nCAAT research places particular emphasis on debunking myths and exposing hidden features of the arms trade, and research into large government subsidies given to the arms industry, largely through government research and development (R&D) but also through export credits, government promotion and military attaches. In 2011, it commissioned the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) to calculate the costs of these subsidies - the figure it arrived at was £698 million annually.\n\nOver the years, CAAT has published a number of briefings on the arms trade, including \"An introduction to the Arms Trade - An introduction to the impact of the arms trade, how it works, and the main justifications for the arms trade\" (latest edition April 2011) and \"Private gain, public pain - The case for ending the Government's arms selling and shutting the UKTI's Defence & Security Organisation\" (May 2010), both of which are accessible via CAAT website. CAAT also publishes a quarterly magazine, \"CAATnews\", which is sent to supporters.\n\nCAAT website contains information about the arms trade, arms companies and campaigning material. A relatively recent addition is an Arms Trade App, a web app which reveals in an accessible format the details of UK \"strategic export\" licences, including military equipment, issued by the Export Control Organisation of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. The app makes previously difficult or inaccessible information available to public view and CAAT sees it as a valuable campaigning tool in helping to hold the government to account. In 2013, in collaboration with the European Network Against Arms Trade (ENAAT), CAAT launched a European Union (EU) Arms Export Browser which breaks down the complex data in the EU annual reports on arms exports in an accessible manner, by year, supplier country, destination country and types of military hardware.\n\nCAAT is principally a campaigning organisation and has adopted and adapted different campaign targets and slogans as needed. From 2011 the main campaign slogan has been \"This is NOT OK\". The Arab Spring of 2011 vindicated CAAT's focus on UK weapons sales to authoritarian regimes in the region, and helped to give CAAT greater visibility in the media and with the public.\n\nBAE Systems formerly British Aerospace, is the world's second largest arms company. BAE's arms are sold around the world. The company has military customers in over 100 countries and in 2010 it was listed by SIPRI as having 95% of its sales as military. CAAT has long campaigned against BAE, highlighting allegations of corruption and political influence, rebuking claims about jobs, attending AGMs as critical shareholders, and through legal action.\n\nIn September 1985 BAE was a signatory to the UK's largest ever arms deal, the Al Yamamah contract to sell and service military planes to the government of Saudi Arabia. This ongoing contact has evolved through several phases and by 2006 had brought BAE £43 billion.\n\nShortly after the contract was signed, corruption allegations emerged concerning bribes paid to Saudi officials through a £60 million pound slush fund. On 12 September 2003 the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) began an investigation into possible corruption. There were also SFO investigations in BAE dealings in Chile, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Austria, Qatar, Romania, South Africa and Tanzania. However, on 14 December 2006 the Government, under the personal intervention of Prime Minister Tony Blair, discontinued the Al Yamamah probe on the grounds that its conclusions might embarrass the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and threaten Britain's national security.\n\nCAAT, in conjunction with The Corner House, an anti-corruption NGO, mounted a legal challenge to this decision, to assess if in curtailing the SFO's investigation the Government had acted illegally. On 9 November 2007 the High Court granted the request for judicial review of the decision. Subsequently, on 10 April the High Court ruled that the Government had acted illegally in stopping the corruption investigation. Lord Justice Moses and Mr Justice Sullivan ruled that the Government had capitulated under intimidation from the government of Saudi Arabia and that \"no-one whether within this country or outside, is entitled to interfere with the course of justice.\" BAE Systems continued to deny any impropriety stating the court had failed \"to distinguish between a commission and a bribe.\"\n\nSubsequently, the SFO launched an appeal that was heard before the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords on 7–8 July 2008. On 30 July the House of Lords overturned the High Court ruling, and decreed that the SFO had acted lawfully in the interest of national security. Senior Peer Lord Bingham of Cornwall stated that \"the director's decision was one he was lawfully entitled to make\".\n\nThe ruling attracted widespread condemnation, from MPs, anti-corruption campaigners and NGOs. Nick Clegg, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, characterised the verdict as \"a legal licence for international blackmail.\" CAAT spokesperson Symon Hill commented: \"BAE and the government will be quickly disappointed if they think that this ruling will bring an end to public criticism. Throughout this case we have been overwhelmed with support from people in all walks of life. There has been a sharp rise in opposition to BAE's influence in the corridors of power. Fewer people are now taken in by exaggerated claims about British jobs dependent on the arms trade. The government has been judged in the court of public opinion.\"\n\nOn 1 October 2009 the SFO announced that it would seek to prosecute BAE over bribery allegations in four countries: the Czech Republic, Romania, South Africa and Tanzania, a move welcomed by CAAT. However, in the following months no moves were made to take the case forward and in a shock move, on 5 February 2010, the SFO announced a \"plea bargain\" deal whereby BAE would pay £30 million and plead guilty to failing to keep reasonably accurate accounting records in relation to its activities in Tanzania. No action would be taken in respect of the allegations with regards to the other countries. Simultaneously, BAE agreed a separate plea bargain with the US Department of Justice whereby it pleaded guilty to \"conspiring to defraud the US by impairing and impeding its lawful functions, to make false statements about its Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance program, and to violate the Arms Export Control Act and International Traffic in Arms Regulations\" and was fined $400 million.\n\nCAAT and The Corner House mounted a legal challenge to the decision by the Director of the SFO to accept the plea bargain on the grounds that the SFO failed properly to apply prosecution guidance, including its own guidance. In particular, the plea agreement reached failed to reflect the seriousness and extent of BAE's alleged offending, which included corruption and bribery, and to provide the court with adequate sentencing powers. In response, on 1 March, the High Court granted an injunction prohibiting the Director of the SFO from taking further steps in its plea bargain settlement. However, the judicial review request was rejected on 24 March and CAAT and The Corner House regretfully decided not to proceed with an appeal.\n\nIn December 2010, Mr Justice Bean held a sentencing hearing at Southwark Crown Court. He was critical of the deal between the SFO and BAE and ruled that BAE was to pay a fine of £500,000 and make a further £29.5million payment to the people of Tanzania. BAE delayed that payment, which was only transferred to the government of Tanzania on 15 March 2012, after severe criticism in the parliamentary International Development Committee.\n\nUnited Kingdom Trade & Investment (UKTI) Defence & Security Organisation (DSO)is the government's arms export promotion unit. It came into being on 1 April 2008 as a replacement for the Defence Export Services Organisation (DESO).\n\nThe Defence Export Services Organisation was an adjunct of the Ministry of Defence concerned with procuring contracts for private military companies to export arms to foreign governments. The closure of DESO had been a core campaigning aim of CAAT since its inception in 1974 and was CAAT's principal campaign in 2006, focusing on arms sales to countries with poor human rights records (in 2004, UK arms export licenses were granted to 13 of the 20 'major countries of concern' identified by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in its 2005 Human Rights Annual Report). CAAT also alleged that DESO unfairly privileged the interests of arms companies and helped facilitate bribes to foreign officials. On 25 July 2007 Gordon Brown announced that DESO would be closed, a move condemned by Mike Turner, then Chief Executive of BAE Systems.\n\nSince its inception, UKTI DSO has held a privileged position in UKTI, employing more civil servants (160) at London headquarters than UKTI employs for all other industry sectors combined (130). There is no economic justification for such support: arms sales account for just 1.2% of UK exports and sustain just 0.2% of the national labour force. UKTI DSO is responsible for organising and supporting UK participation in arms fairs overseas and in the UKTi, especially the bi-annual Defence Systems and Equipment International (DSEi) in London and Farnborough International Airshow. The head of UKTI DSO is Richard Paniguian CBE, a former BP executive. UKTI DSO is based at the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) in Westminster and also has staff in overseas offices in priority market countries. CAAT has held a number of protest demonstrations outside UKTI offices and has made many Freedom of Information requests to UKTI DSO on markets, meetings and arms fair activities.\n\nThe closure of UKTI DSO and the ending of all government financial and political support for arms exports remains a principal campaigning focus for CAAT.\n\nCAAT has long campaigned against government support and participation in arms fairs, in the UK and elsewhere. Arms Fairs promote weapons sales by giving arms dealers the chance to meet and greet military delegations, government officials, other arms companies and suppliers, and interested individuals. The guest lists for arms fairs frequently include regimes who abuse human rights, and countries actively involved in armed conflicts.\n\nDefence Systems and Equipment International DSEi is one of the largest arms fairs in the world. It is held at the ExCel Centre in London's docklands bi-annually, the most recent in September 2011.\n\nFrom 2003 to May 2008 the DSEi was organised by Reed Elsevier, a publishing and information company, who acquired the previous organisers Spearhead in 2003. CAAT campaigned to encourage Reed Elsevier to extricate itself from the arms industry. It directed a sustained and concerted effort from academics, doctors and writers who used the company's products, who demanded that Reed Elsevier end their involvement with arms fairs on ethical grounds. This culminated in Reed's decision to sell its arms fairs to Clarion Events in June 2007, a sale which was completed in May 2008.\n\nSince 2008 CAAT has campaigned against both UKTI DSO and Clarion Events' involvement in DSEi. In collaboration with Stop the Arms Fair coalition, CAAT organised demonstrations against DSEi in 2009 and 2011 focusing its efforts in central London as security made it difficult to protest near ExCel. There have also been many smaller demonstrations outside Clarion Events offices and trade fairs, such as The Baby Show and Spirit of Christmas. Because Clarion, unlike Reed Elsevier, is a private company it is not possible to organise shareholder opposition; instead the focus has been on making exhibitors and visitors aware of Clarion's arms trade connections.\n\nCAAT has also tried to raise public awareness of the role of the Farnborough Airshow as an arms fair, owned and organised by the arms industry body Aerospace, Defence and Security (ADS). Held near Farnborough in Hampshire in alternate years to DSEi, the next air show is scheduled for 16–17 July 2016.\n\nCAAT will continue campaigning for an end to government participation in and support for arms fairs and for the overall closure of DSEi and other arms fairs.\n\nThe \"Disarm the Gallery\" campaign was launched by CAAT and the Stop the Arms Fair coalition in 2012. It aims to persuade the National Gallery to end the £30,000 annual sponsorship by Italian arms company Finmeccanica which has allowed the company to hold receptions for arms company executives attending arms fairs DSEi and Farnborough International. In October 2012, the Finmeccanica sponsorship was terminated, one year earlier than it had been due to expire.\n\nCAAT has consistently sought to highlight public organizations (local councils, pension funds, charities, educational institutions, health bodies, religious organizations etc.) who hold shares in companies trading in arms and encourage them to disinvest. From 1995 to 2007 CAAT researched and published annual reports on the arms company shareholdings of local authorities. For example, in July 2007 CAAT released research that 75 local authorities in the UK held such investments through their pension funds. It argued that many council employees did not want to invest in the arms industry and would prefer a more ethical investment strategy.\n\nThe Clean Investment campaign has had many successes. In 2001, after a campaign by the CAAT Christian Network, the Church of England redefined its investment criteria and confirmed it would no longer invest in arms companies. With its arms-free portfolio, the Church was judged in 2005 to be the second best performer of more than 1,000 funds over the previous decade.\n\nThe CAAT Universities Network has met with considerable success in its campaign for ethical investment in educational institutions. A 2007 report,'Study War No More', highlighted military funding and involvement in 26 British universities. CAAT supports student research into university investment portfolios which has helped students to mount their own campaigns for clean investment. As a result, many universities have disinvested their arms industry shares, while campaigns continue on other campuses for similar action to be taken.\n\nCAAT no longer actively researches or publishes on Clean Investment. Instead it encourages supporters to gain information on public bodies through the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and to use this information to support disinvestment.\n\nSince the invasion of Iraq in March 2003, the use of 'private military companies' has become standard practice for countries such as the UK and the US. CAAT considers these contractors to be modern-day corporate mercenaries, as defined by the Geneva Convention. Private military companies have become big business, with an estimated turnover worldwide of $100 billion in 2003, and their use is likely to rise in future conflicts. CAAT published a research paper on the issue in 1999.\n\nCAAT seeks an end to all mercenary activities. If this cannot be achieved at this point, CAAT believes that they should be strictly regulated and has collaborated with War on Want and other organisations to lobby the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office to do so. In 2008, Labour Foreign Secretary David Miliband rejected a government licensing system and proposed regulation by a trade organisation. The Coalition government accepted the Labour government's proposals and in March 2011 stated that ADS Group, representing over 2,000 companies in the AeroSpace, Defence and Space sectors, would oversee the regulation. CAAT does not find this form of self-regulation to be strong or impartial.\n\nCAAT's ultimate decision-making body is its steering committee, of elected and appointed members and staff members. CAAT employs a small number of paid staff who are supported by a large number of volunteers, without whom the campaign would not be able to function.\n\nCAAT has a network of local groups and contacts who play a vital role in communicating its message and strengthening its campaigns. There are currently also two special interest networks – the Christian Network and the Universities Network. Supporters receive copies of \"CAATnews\" quarterly magazine, mailings and ebulletins and are invited to attend an annual gathering, regional workshops and protests.\n\nIndividuals and supportive groups (local branches of peace organisations, trade unions, churches, etc.) donate around 80% of CAAT's running costs. As a campaigning organisation, CAAT is unable to take advantage of many of the benefits open to charities, but makes applications for charitable funding to a small number of trusts and foundations for its research and educational work.\n\nCAAT is a member of the European Network Against Arms Trade (ENAAT) and works together with similar organisations in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "22467111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22467111", "title": "China Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group", "text": "China Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group\n\nChina Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group (CHRLCG) is a non-profit organization whose stated objective is to advocate for the protection of human rights lawyers and legal rights defenders in China. It was established on 20 January 2007 by a group of lawyers, legislators and academics based in Hong Kong, including Albert Ho.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844443", "title": "Chinese imperialism", "text": "Chinese imperialism\n\nIn ancient Chinese political theory, relations between foreign states were governed by the tributary system. Since the Emperor of China held the Mandate of Heaven, his rule was universal and extended to All under heaven. Sometimes neighboring states were actual protectorates or vassal states over which China exerted large amounts of influence, while in other cases foreign states merely acknowledged China's nominal suzerainty in order to gain access to Chinese trade, which took place through the tributary system.\n\nThe king of the ancient state of Qin first unified the Chinese empire in 221 BC by conquering all of the other states in what was then considered China and proclaimed himself the \"First Emperor\" and became known as Qin Shi Huangdi.\n\nThe ancient Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD) established control over northern Vietnam, northern Korea, and the Tarim Basin of Central Asia. The short-lived Sui Dynasty (581–618 AD) reinvaded Annam (northern Vietnam) and attacked Champa (southern Vietnam), while they also attempted to conquer Korea, which failed (see Goguryeo-Sui Wars). The later Tang Dynasty (618–907) aided the Korean Silla Kingdom in defeating their two Korean rivals, yet became shortchanged when they discovered Silla was not about to allow the Tang to claim much of Goguryeo's territory (as it had been under the Chinese Han Dynasty's control a few centuries before, the Han having wrested it from native kingdoms at that time). The Tang Dynasty established control over the Tarim Basin region as well, fighting wars with the new Tibetan Empire and stripping them of their colonies in Central Asia (which was abandoned after the An Lushan Rebellion). The Song Dynasty (960–1279), in securing maritime trade routes that ran from South East Asia into the Indian Ocean, had established fortified trade bases in the Philippines. The Mongol-led Yuan Dynasty (1279–1368) made attempts to invade Japan after securing the Korean peninsula through the vassaldom of the Korean Goryeo dynasty, yet both of these military ventures failed (see Mongol Invasions of Japan).\n\nThe Lanfang Republic was established in 1777.\n\nBy the late 19th century, in response to competition with other states, the Qing government of China attempted to exert direct control of its frontier areas by conquest or, if already under military control, conversion into provinces.\n\nMing dynasty loyalists from China invaded Taiwan and expelled Dutch colonialists from the island during the Siege of Fort Zeelandia and founded the Chinese Kingdom of Tungning. The Ming loyalists quickly moved to replace the institutions and culture of Dutch colonial rule with Han Chinese colonial rule. Language and religious institutions left by the Dutch were closed and replaced with Confucian temples and Chinese language schools for both Han Chinese and aboriginals. Officials encouraged new immigration of Han Chinese from China into territory further inland, turning aboriginal lands into new farmland. After fighting between the Ming loyalists and the Qing during the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, the Qing attacked the Kingdom of Tungning. the Qing won the Battle of Penghu and the Ming loyalists submitted to Qing rule. Tungning was annexed as part of Fujian province. The Qing were \"reluctant colonizers\" but became convinced of Taiwan's value to their empire due to the threat the island posed if used as a base by rival powers, and by its abundant resources. The Qing turned Taiwan into its own province in 1885, after Japanese interest and a defeated French invasion attempt.\n\nAfter British troops invaded Tibet in the waning days of the Qing Dynasty, the Qing responded by sending Zhao Erfeng to further integrate Tibet into China. He succeeded in abolishing the powers of the Tibetan local leaders in Kham and appointing Chinese magistrates in their places by 1909–10. Qing forces were also sent to Ü-Tsang in 1910 to establish a direct control over Tibet proper, though a province was never established in this area.\n\nThe ability of Qing China to project power into Central Asia came about because of two changes, one social and one technological. The social change was that under the Qing dynasty, from 1642, China came under the control of the Manchus who organised their military forces around cavalry which was more suited for power projection than traditional Chinese infantry. The technological change was advances in artillery which negated the military advantage that the people of the Steppe had with their cavalry. Zunghar Khanate (Зүүн гарын хаант улс) was the last great independent nomadic power on the steppe in Central Asia. The Dzungars were deliberately exterminated in a brutal campaign during the Zunghar Genocide by Manchu Bannermen and Khalkha Mongols. It has been estimated that more than a million people were slaughtered, and it took generations for it to recover. The Manchu ruling family (Aisin Gioro) was a supporter of Tibetan Buddhism and so many of the ruling groups were linked by religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "142926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142926", "title": "Countryside Alliance", "text": "Countryside Alliance\n\nThe Countryside Alliance (CA) is a British organisation promoting issues relating to the countryside such as farming, rural services, small businesses and country sports, aiming to \"Give Rural Britain a voice\". With over 100,000 members, the group was named the 'most inspiring political personality' of the last ten years by \"Channel 4 News\" in 2008.\n\nThe Countryside Alliance was formed on 10 July 1997 from three organisations: the British Field Sports Society, the Countryside Business Group, and the Countryside Movement. The Alliance was formed to help promote and defend the British countryside and rural life, both in the media and in Parliament. Since then, the Alliance has campaigned on a number of issues which they believe are important to rural Britain, some of the most prominent of which are listed below:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe alliance states that \"the countryside is enriched by country pursuits, whose participants should be free from prejudice and discrimination.\"\n\nThe alliance has long defended hunting and shooting, especially hunting with hounds, opposing the legislation (the Hunting Act 2004) which came into effect in England and Wales in February 2005. Amongst other causes, the Scottish Countryside Alliance campaigns against the Protection of Wild Mammals (Scotland) Act 2002, which prohibited hunting north of the border. In 2002, the alliance organised the Liberty & Livelihood March, one of the largest demonstrations in British history, with almost half a million people marching through London to demonstrate against the proposed ban. The Countryside Alliance mounted a series of legal challenges to the Hunting Act 2004 which were not met with success.\n\nFollowing the first conviction under the act, on 4 August 2006, the alliance reaffirmed its belief that legislation was \"illogical and unclear\" and vowed to support the appeal against the conviction, which was later successful.\n\nCritics of the alliance claim that this is the sole focus of the organisation, a claim it denies, saying that this campaigning is a response to the (previous) government's \"preoccupation with the issue\". On BBC \"Newsnight\" on 18 November 2014, Anne Mallalieu stated \"What's actually happened to the foxes...because of the growth of commercial shooting...foxes are being shot at night by lampers...people with bright lights shooting them with guns...\"\n\nIn September 2002, the Countryside Alliance organised a march in central London to promote the interests of rural Britain. The British National Party had called for its members to join the march and support the countryside; however, the Countryside Alliance issued the following statement: \"Everything we stand for is the opposite of what they believe in.\" Over 300,000 people were in attendance, including Iain Duncan Smith, Vinnie Jones, Edward Fox, Clarissa Dickson-Wright, Richard Foulds, Earl Spencer, and Michael Marsham, 7th Earl of Romney.\n\nThe organisation has held fundraising rock concerts under the banner \"Countryside Rocks\" which have attracted support from stars including Pink Floyd's Roger Waters, The Who's Roger Daltrey, Procol Harum's Keith Reid, Roxy Music's Bryan Ferry, Eric Clapton and Genesis' Mike Rutherford.\n\nIn a 2013 interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\", the alliance's executive chairman, Lieutenant General Sir Barney White-Spunner, called the RSPCA a \"sinister and nasty\" organisation and urged alliance members to stop donating to it. The RSPCA responded by saying: \"Sir Barney White-Spunner's interview shows once again how far out of touch he and his colleagues at the pro bloodsports Countryside Alliance are with the reality of public opinion in this country.\" The Alliance has also criticised the RSPB and called for the sacking of TV presenter Chris Packham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38197527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38197527", "title": "DerzhPlan", "text": "DerzhPlan\n\nThe DerzhPlan of the Ukrainian SSR (, ) or State Planning Committee of the Ukrainian SSR was a union-republican authority that conducted state planning of economical and social development of the Ukrainian SSR and controlled execution of national economical plans.\n\nThe committee was created on September 28, 1921 as the Ukrainian Commonly-planned Economic Commission as part of the Ukrainian Economical Conference. Later it was subordinated to the Council of People's Commissars (since 1946 - Council of Ministers) of the Ukrainian SSR and the Gosplan (until 1922 - of the Russian SFSR) of the USSR. The base of its organization and activities was the principle of democratic centralism.\n\nDerzhplan was developing perspective and annual state plans of economical and social development of the Ukrainian SSR in accordance with program of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, statements of the party's congresses and the Communist Party of Ukraine, decisions of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Council of Ministers of the USSR, the Central Committee of Communist Party of Ukraine and Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian SSR and instructions of the Gosplan of the USSR. The plans ensure a proportional development of national economy of the republic, a continuous growth and increase efficiency of public production, a rapid growth of national income, a further scientific-technical progress and a labor productivity growth. Those plans also provide a rational use of based funds and production capacities, material, labor, natural and financial resources, improving product quality, specialization of economy of the Ukrainian SSR in the All-Union division of labor in order to increase contribution in creation of the material-technical base of communism, steady increase of the living standards of the people. Developing plans, the committee provides a rational allocation of productive forces on a territory of the republic based on specialization and cooperation in production and integrated development of regional economies and economic districts.\n\nUnlike the rest of members of the committee who were elected by the Council of Ministers, the chairman of Derzhplan was appointed by the Central Executive Committee of the Ukrainian SSR (since 1937 - Verkhovna Rada).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7437427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437427", "title": "EudraVigilance", "text": "EudraVigilance\n\nEudraVigilance (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Pharmacovigilance) is the European data processing network and management system for reporting and evaluation of suspected adverse reactions during the development of new drugs and for following the marketing authorisation of medicinal products in the European Economic Area (EEA).\n\nThe European EudraVigilance system deals with the:\n\n"}
{"id": "536874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536874", "title": "Flag desecration", "text": "Flag desecration\n\nFlag desecration is a term applied to the desecration of flags or violation of flag protocol, a various set of acts that intentionally destroy, damage, or mutilate a flag in public. Often, in case of a national flag, such action is intended to make a political point against a country or its policies. Some countries have laws forbidding methods of destruction (such as burning in public) or forbidding particular uses (such as for commercial purposes); such laws may distinguish between desecration of the country's own national flag and flags of other countries.\nActions that may be treated as flag desecration include burning it, urinating or defecating on it, defacing it with slogans, stepping upon it, damaging it with stones or guns, cutting or ripping it, verbally insulting it, or dragging it on the ground.\n\nFlag desecration may be undertaken for a variety of reasons. It may be a protest against a country's foreign policy, including one's own, or the nature of the government in power there. It may be a protest against nationalism or a deliberate and symbolic insult to the people of the country represented by the flag. It may also be a protest at the very laws prohibiting the act of desecrating a flag.\n\nBurning or defacing a flag is a crime in some countries. In countries where it is not, the act may still be prosecuted as disorderly conduct, arson, or, if conducted on someone else's property, theft or vandalism.\n\nUsing a flag unconventionally, such as hanging it upside down or reversed, may be regarded as desecration. Flying a flag at half-mast is considered desecration in Saudi Arabia. In some countries, however, flying a flag upside-down is conventional protocol to indicate an emergency or problem, or to indicate a state of war. Moreover, some flags (such as the flag of Austria) when hung upside down and/or reversed look the same because they are vertically and/or horizontally symmetrical.\n\nSome countries regard it as desecration to make toilet paper, napkins, doormats, and other such items bearing the image of the flag, so that the flag's image will be destroyed or soiled. It is, however, increasingly common in some countries to see clothing with the image of the flag forming a substantial part of the piece. Views vary as to whether some of this is an act of national pride or disrespect.\n\nIn Algeria, flag desecration is a crime. According to article 160bis of the Algerian penal code, the intentional and public shredding, distortion, or desecration of the national flag is punishable by 5 to 10 years of imprisonment.\n\nIn 2010, an Algerian court convicted 17 people of flag desecration and punished them by up to 6 years of imprisonment and $10,000 in fines after protests about jobs and housing.\n\nThe Penal Code (Código Penal) on its Article 222 criminalizes the public desecration of the national flag, coat of arms, national anthem, or any provincial symbol, imposing from 1 to 4 years of imprisonment.\n\nFlag desecration is not, in itself, illegal in Australia. However, flag desecration must otherwise be compliant with the law.\n\nIn \"Coleman v Kinbacher & Anor (Qld Police)\", Coleman was successfully prosecuted for flag burning, not because of its political nature, but because given the size of the flag, the use of petrol as an accelerant, and the fact that it was in an open park area, many members of the public experienced \"concern, fright and anger\", and in these circumstances flag burning could be considered disorderly conduct.\n\nThere have been several attempts to pass bills making flag burning illegal in Australia, none of which have yet been successful. As of May 2016, the most recent bill which attempted to ban flag burning was the \"Flags Amendment (Protecting Australian Flags) Bill 2016\", which was introduced by National Party MP George Christensen and is not proceeding.\n\nDuring the 2005 Cronulla riots, a Lebanese-Australian youth, whose name has been kept secret, climbed an Returned and Services League (RSL) club building and tore down its flag before setting it on fire. The youth was sentenced to 12 months probation not for flag desecration but for the destruction of property of the RSL. In October of that year the youth accepted an invitation from the RSL to carry the Australian flag along with war veterans in the Anzac Day march the following year. However, the RSL was forced to withdraw this invitation as it received phone calls from people threatening to pelt the youth with missiles on the day. The head of the New South Wales RSL was quoted as saying that \"the people who made these threats ought to be bloody ashamed of themselves\".\n\nIn 2006, Australian contemporary artist Azlan McLennan burnt an Australian flag and displayed it on a billboard outside the Trocadero artspace in Footscray, Victoria. He called the artpiece \"Proudly UnAustralian\".\n\nThe socialist youth group Resistance marketed \"flag-burning kits\"—inspired by, and to protest, the censorship of Azlan McLennan's art—to university students.\n\nTasmanian Aboriginal Centre worker Adam Thompson burned the Australian flag on the week of Australia Day (2008) celebrations in Launceston's City Park to the cheers of about 100 people, who were rallying against what they call \"Invasion Day\".\n\nTent embassy activists burned the Australian flag on 27 January 2012 at the entrance to Canberra's Parliament House as they called for Aboriginal sovereignty over Australia.\n\nIn Austria flag desecration is illegal under §248 Strafgesetzbuch. Offenders can be fined or punished with up to 6 months of imprisonment. Under §317 Strafgesetzbuch desecration of flags of foreign states or international organizations can be punished if Austria maintains diplomatic relations with them or belongs to the respective organization.\nAs Austria was formerly part of Nazi Germany, use of the Nazi flag in Austria today is illegal (see section \"Germany – Nazi flag\" below).\n\nFlag desecration is not forbidden by Belgian law. Flemish nationalists have burned Belgian flags on at least one occasion.\n\nBrazilian law number 5700, chapter V, from 1971, concerns respect and the national flag:\n\nArticle 30 states that, when in the flag is being marched or paraded (for example, when the national anthem is being played), everyone present must take a respectful attitude, standing in silence. Males must remove any head coverings. Military personnel must salute or present arms according to their corps' internal regulations.\n\nArticle 31 states that it is prohibited:\n\nArticle 32 states that flags in a bad condition must be sent to the nearest military unit for incineration on Flag Day according to ceremonial procedures.\n\nArticle 33 states that, except at diplomatic missions such as embassies and consulates, no foreign flag may be flown without, alongside, a Brazilian flag of the same size in a prominent position.\n\nChapter VI of the law states, in article 35, that the act of a civilian breaking this law is considered a misdemeanor, punished with a fine of one to four times the highest reference value active in the country, doubled in repeated infringement cases. In the Brazilian Armed Forces' Military Penal Code, article 161, a soldier, airman or seaman who disrespects any national symbol is punished with one to two years' detention; officers may be declared unsuitable for their rank.\n\nCanada has no laws prohibiting flag desecration. Acts of this nature are forms of expression protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\n\nIn 1990, during heated political times around the Meech Lake Accord, the flag of Quebec was desecrated by protestors in Brockville, Ontario opposed to Quebec's language laws after the Canadian flag had been burnt in protests in Quebec. Televised images of individuals stepping on the Quebec flag were played in Quebec and contributed to the deterioration in relations between Quebec and English Canada. The incident, seen as a metaphor of Canada's perceived rejection of Quebec (and of Quebec's distinctiveness in the demise of the Meech Lake Accord) was invoked by Quebec nationalists during the run-up to the 1995 referendum on Quebec independence and is still remembered today.\n\nIn 1999, members of the Westboro Baptist Church from the United States staged a burning of the Canadian Flag outside of the Supreme Court of Canada in Ottawa, Ontario. This was to protest legalization of same-sex marriage which was being adjudicated by the Canadian court.\n\nFlag desecration is prohibited in China. The penal code provides for an imprisonment up to three years, criminal detention, public surveillance, or deprivation of political rights for anyone who \"desecrate[s] the National Flag (Wǔ Xīng Hóngqí) or the National Emblem of the People's Republic of China by intentionally burning, mutilating, scrawling on, defiling or trampling upon it in public\".\n\nCroatian history recalls the burning of the flag of the Kingdom of Hungary during the 1895 visit of Emperor Franz Joseph to Zagreb. Two people involved in the incident, Stjepan Radić and Vladimir Vidrić, later pursued notable careers in politics and literature, respectively. In modern Croatia it is illegal to desecrate any flag or to treat any flag in a disrespectful manner. Offenders are punishable with up to one year of imprisonment.\n\nIn Denmark, it is legal to burn or desecrate the national flag, the Dannebrog. It is illegal to publicly burn or desecrate the flags of foreign countries, the United Nations and Council of Europe according to section 110(e) of the Danish penal code because Parliament has decided that burning or desecrating these is a matter of foreign relations, as it could be construed as a threat. This law is rarely used; the last conviction was in 1936.\n\nAccording to Danish tradition, burning is the proper way to dispose of a worn Dannebrog flag. According to tradition, care must be observed to ensure that a flag never touches the ground, i.e., even when being disposed of, it should be placed on top of a fire. Flying the flag after sundown is also inappropriate behaviour.\n\nAccording to the Faroese flag law the Faroese flag, \"Merkið\", may not be desecrated, \"neither by words or by deeds\".\n\nAccording to the law on the Finnish flag, it is illegal to desecrate the flag, treat it in disrespecting manner, or remove it from a public place without permission.\n\nAccording to French law, outraging the French national anthem or the French flag during an event organized or regulated by public authorities is liable for a fine of €7,500 (and six months' imprisonment if performed in a gathering). The law targets \"outrageous behaviour\" during public ceremonies and major sports events.\n\nThis clause was added as an amendment to a large bill dealing with internal security, in reaction to a football match during which there had been whistles against \"La Marseillaise\", but also to similar actions during public ceremonies. The amendment initially prohibited such behaviour regardless of the context, but a parliamentary commission later restricted its scope to events organized or regulated by public authorities,—which is to be understood, according to the ruling of the Constitutional Council as events organized by public authorities, mass sport matches and other mass events taking place in enclosures, but not private speech, literary or artistic works, or speech during events not organized or regulated by public authorities.\n\nIn 2006, a man who had publicly burnt a French flag stolen from the façade of the city hall of Aurillac during a public festival, organized and regulated by public authorities, was fined €300.\n\nA July 2010 law makes it a crime to desecrate the French national flag in a public place, but also to distribute images of a flag desecration, even when done in a private setting. On 22 December 2010, an Algerian national was the first person to be convicted under the new status, and ordered to pay a €750 after breaking the pole of a flag hung in the Alpes-Maritimes prefecture a day prior.\n\nUnder German criminal code (§90a Strafgesetzbuch (StGB)) it is illegal to revile or damage the German federal flag as well as any flags of its states in public. Offenders can be fined or sentenced to a maximum of three years in prison, or fined or sentenced to a maximum of five years in prison if the act was intentionally used to support the eradication of the Federal Republic of Germany or to violate constitutional rights. Actual convictions because of a violation of the criminal code need to be balanced against the constitutional right of the freedom of expression, as ruled multiple times by Germany's constitutional court.\n\nIt is illegal to damage or revile flags of foreign countries, if they are shown publicly by tradition, event, or routinely by representatives of the foreign entity (§104 StGB). On the other hand, it is not illegal to desecrate such flags that serve no official purpose (especially any provided by the perpetrator).\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, many East Germans cut out the emblem from their national flag in support for a reunified, democratic Germany. This flag is now used by the Federal Foundation for the Reappraisal of the SED Dictatorship.\n\nDuring the 2006 World Cup, the anti-German German musician Torsun (half of the group Egotronic) recorded a techno cover of the song \"Ten German Bombers\". The song and its accompanying YouTube video (featuring footage of German planes being shot down, the Wembley goal, a burning German flag, etc.) attracted media attention in Germany, as well as from the British tabloid \"News of the World\". The song was eventually included in the World Cup–themed compilation \"Weltmeister Hits 2006\".\n\nOn 19 December 1932, Weimar Republic Reichspräsident Paul von Hindenburg made desecration of the German flag illegal by signing into law §134a StGB by presidential decree. Initially, this law applied to the black-red-gold flag of democratic Germany.\n\nOn 26 July 1935 in New York a group of demonstrators boarded the SS \"Bremen\", tore the Nazi party flag from the jackstaff and threw it into the Hudson River. The German ambassador sharply protested, but the protest was rejected, with the judgement that only a party symbol was harmed and the national flag was not affected. On 15 September 1935, in response to this incident, the \"Reichsflaggengesetz\" (Reichs flag law) (RGBl. I S. 1145) came into effect, declaring the Nazi flag to be the exclusive national flag of Germany and removing the status of the black-white-red tricolor flag of the German Empire as co-national flag.\n\nIn January 1941, the flag of Nazi Germany flying from the German consulate in San Francisco was slashed and torn down by two United States Navy sailors. They were arrested, tried, and convicted of malicious mischief. The German government protested the incident and the United States Department of State expressed their regrets. Later that year, after Germany declared war on the United States, one of the sailors, Harold Sturtevant, who had been dismissed because of the incident, received a pardon and reenlisted in the Navy.\n\nThe display of Nazi symbols for anything other than educational purposes is forbidden in Germany according to the German criminal code Strafgesetzbuch section 86a. Similar laws exist in Austria (\"Verbotsgesetz 1947, Abzeichengesetz 1960\").\n\nThe Chinese law about flag desecration were incorporated into Hong Kong law as the National Flag and National Emblem Ordinance in 1997 as required by Annex III of the territory's constitution. The Regional Flag and Regional Emblem Ordinance is the equivalent statute in respect of the Hong Kong flag. Both ordinances ban desecration of the Chinese flag and Hong Kong flag, respectively, through methods including \"burning, mutilating, scrawling on, defiling or trampling\".\n\nIn 1999, two individuals were convicted for desecration of the Regional Flag of Hong Kong and the Chinese flag. They were found guilty by a magistrate, had the conviction overturned in the High Court but the convictions were restored by the Court of Final Appeal.\n\nThey were bound over to keep the peace on their own recognisance of $2,000 for 12 months for each of the two charges.\n\nIn the judgement, Chief Justice Andrew Li said although the Basic Law of Hong Kong guarantees freedom of speech, flag desecration is not legal because there are other protest methods.\n\nSocial activist Koo Sze-yiu has been convicted twice of flag desecration. He was sentenced to a nine-month prison term in 2013 for the offence. However, the sentence was reduced to four months and two weeks after an appeal. In March 2016 he was sentenced to a six-week prison term for burning the regional flag in Wanchai on HKSAR Establishment Day in 2015. Koo responded that \"he is happy to be punished as being jailed is part of the life of an activist, and he would continue to protest against the Beijing and Hong Kong governments and fight for democracy.\"\n\nIn October 2016, some miniature Chinese and Hong Kong flags that had been placed by pro-Beijing legislators in the Legislative Council chamber were flipped upside down by lawmaker Cheng Chung-tai, who regarded them as \"cheap patriotic acts\". In April 2017 he was charged with flag desecration. He alleged that the arrest was part of a \"general cleansing\" of dissenting voices ahead of Carrie Lam's inauguration as new chief executive. On 29 September 2017, the Eastern Magistrates' Court found Cheng guilty and fined him $5,000.\n\nDuring a demonstration at the beginning of the Hungarian revolution of 1956 someone in the crowd cut out the communist coat of arms from the Hungarian flag, leaving a distinctive hole, and others quickly followed suit. The \"flag with a hole\" became a symbol of the Hungarian resistance. The practice of cutting out the communist coat of arms was also followed by other Eastern Bloc countries, such as Romania, especially during the Revolutions of 1989.\n\nThe Indian Flag Code is a set of laws that govern the usage of the Flag of India. The Bureau of Indian Standards is in charge of the enforcement of the manufacture of the flag according to the guidelines.\n\nViolation of the code may invite severe punishments and penalties. The code was written in 2002 and merged the following acts: provisions of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 (No.12 of 1950) and the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 (No. 69 of 1971).\n\nThe Indian Flag Code was often criticized for being too rigid and prevented ordinary citizens from displaying the flag on homes and other buildings. For many years, only government officials and other government buildings could unfurl the flag. That changed in 2001 when Naveen Jindal won a court case in the Supreme Court of India to give Indians the right to unfurl the flag publicly. The Indian cricket batsman Sachin Tendulkar was accused of sporting the flag on his cricket helmet below the BCCI emblem. He later changed it and placed the flag above BCCI emblem. The flag code was updated in 2005; some new provisions include that the flag cannot be worn under the waist or on undergarments.\n\nIn 2004, many copies of the proposed new flag for Iraq were burnt (see flag of Iraq). There were no such examples of burning the current Iraqi national flags, even by political opponents, as both contain the words \"Allahu Akbar\" (God is great), so this would be seen as a religious insult.\n\nThe Department of the Taoiseach's guide to the flag of Ireland includes a list of \"practices to avoid\". This states in part \"The National Flag should never be defaced by placing slogans, logos, lettering or pictures of any kind on it, for example at sporting events.\" A tricolour inscribed \"Davy Keogh says hello\" waved continually since 1981 has given its eponymous bearer a modicum of fame among Republic of Ireland soccer supporters. Guinness ran a promotion before the 2002 FIFA World Cup distributing Irish flags to supporters in pubs, on which the tricolour's white band was defaced with Guinness's harp logo (which is similar to, but different from, the harp on the Irish coat of arms). Guinness apologised after public criticism. Cecilia Keaveney said in a subsequent Dáil debate, \"It may not be possible to address defacing the flag through legislation, but the House must issue a strong message that this is unacceptable.\"\n\nSeán O'Casey's 1926 play \"The Plough and the Stars\" attracted controversy for its critical view of the Easter Rising, in particular a scene in which a tricolour is brought into a pub frequented by a prostitute. On 7 May 1945, the day before V-E Day, celebrating unionist students in Trinity College Dublin raised the flags of the victorious Allies over the college; when onlookers in College Green began jeering, some took down the flag of neutral Ireland, set fire to it and tossed it away, provoking a small riot. In response, nationalist students from University College Dublin, including future Taoiseach Charles Haughey, burned the British flag in Grafton Street. The Provost of Trinity College apologised for the incident, which was not reported in Irish newspapers owing to wartime censorship.\n\nIn 2007 six teenagers in the South Tel Aviv suburb of Bat Yam were arrested for burning an Israeli flag. This incident was considered serious by the police and others since the youths were suspected in other acts of vandalism and claimed to be Satanists.\n\nIn 2016, Israel passed an amendment, meaning those convicted of burning an Israeli flag, or the flag of allied countries, face up to three years in prison.\n\nIn Italy, desecration of any Italian or foreign nation's national flag (\"villipendio alla bandiera\") is prohibited by law (Article 292 of the Italian Penal Code) and punished with fines (between and euros) for verbal desecration and with reclusion (up to two years) for physical damage or destruction.\n\nIn Japan, under Chapter 4, Article 92 of the Criminal Code, any desecration of a recognized foreign nation's national flag and symbol to dishonour that particular nation is prohibited and punishable by fine or penal labour, but only on complaint by the foreign government.\n\nIn May 1958, the flag of China, the \"Wǔ Xīng Hóngqí\", at a postage stamp convention was pulled down and damaged, but as Japan did not recognize the PRC at the time, the law was not applied. In February 2011, Japanese ultra-rightists held a protest over the Kuril islands dispute outside of the Russian embassy in Tokyo, during which they dragged a Russian flag on the ground; Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov stated that his ministry had asked the Japanese government to launch a criminal case over the incident.\n\nHowever, there has never been a law explicitly prohibiting desecration of the Japanese flag, the \"Hinomaru\". Absent such law, the act of desecration is implicitly protected by Article 21 covering freedom of speech in the Constitution of Japan.\n\nOn 26 October 1987, an Okinawan supermarket owner burned the \"Hinomaru\", before the start of the National Sports Festival of Japan. The flag burner, Shōichi Chibana, burned the national flag not only to show opposition to atrocities committed by the Japanese army and the continued presence of U.S. forces, but also to prevent it from being displayed in public. Other incidents in Okinawa included the flag being torn down during school ceremonies and students refusing to honor the flag as it was being raised to the sounds of \"Kimigayo\".\n\nWhile Malaysia does not have specific legislation regarding flag desecration, legal action can be taken against those who show disrespect towards the national flag Jalur Gemilang under the Penal Code (Act 574), Sedition Act 1948 (Act 15) and the Emblems & Names (Prevention of Control of Improper Use) 1963 (Act 193). In October 2013, the Law Minister Nancy Shukri announced that the Government would be removing the proposed Clause 5 amendment to the Penal Code, which proposed fining or jailing anyone charged with desecrating the Jalur Gemilang or a foreign flag for a term of between five and fifteen years. She clarified that provisions for safeguarding the national flag would be added under the proposed National Harmony Act.\n\nNine Australian men, the 'Budgie Nine', were arrested after celebrating the 2016 Malaysian Grand Prix by stripping to their 'budgie smuggler' swimming trunks, decorated with the Malaysian flag. After three days in custody they were charged with public nuisance and released. The briefs had been made in Australia, not Malaysia.\n\nThe use of the National Symbols (Coat of Arms, Anthem, and National Flag) in Mexico is protected by law. In Mexico the desecration of the flag is illegal. Although punishment is not sought often and are usually not harsh, there are a few instances; for example, in 2008 a federal judge convicted an individual for 'desecrating the flag' in a poem. The ministry that oversees the use of national symbols requested four years in jail, but the judge only issued a small fine and a public warning.\n\nIn New Zealand, under the Flags, Emblems and Names Protection Act 1981 it is illegal to destroy the New Zealand flag with the intent of dishonouring it. In 2003, Paul Hopkinson, a Wellington schoolteacher, burned the Flag of New Zealand as part of a protest in Parliament grounds at the New Zealand Government's hosting of the Prime Minister of Australia, against the background of Australia's support of the United States in its war in Iraq. Hopkinson was initially convicted under Flags, Emblems and Names Protection Act 1981 of destroying a New Zealand flag with intent to dishonour it, but appealed against his conviction. On appeal, his conviction was overturned on the grounds that the law had to be read consistently with the right to freedom of expression under the Bill of Rights. This meant that his actions were not unlawful because the word dishonour in the Flags, Emblems and Names Protection Act had many shades of meaning, and when the least restrictive meaning of that word was adopted Hopkinson's actions did not meet that standard. This somewhat unusual result was due in part to the fact that the Bill of Rights does not overrule other laws (\"Hopkinson v Police\").\n\nIn 2007, activist Valerie Morse had burned the New Zealand flag during an ANZAC Day dawn service in Wellington. She was fined NZ$500 by the Wellington District Court and her conviction was upheld by the High Court and the Court of Appeal. After Morse's lawyers appealed the conviction on the grounds that she was being punished for expressing ideas, the New Zealand Supreme Court ruled in 2011 that the previous rulings had misinterpreted the meaning of \"offensive behavior\" in the Summary Offences Act.\n\nDesecration of foreign countries' flags or national coats of arms was previously banned according to the General Civil Penal Code §95. The ban had however rarely been practiced, and was eventually lifted in 2008.\n\nComedian Otto Jespersen burned a US flag during a satirical TV show in 2003.\nDuring the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy, Norwegian flags were burned in demonstrations in various Muslim countries. \n\nPakistan's flag comes under the strict protection of various constitutional clauses. However, the statutes governing the topic consist only of Pakistan Flag Protocols and are unclear as with regards to legal status of the offender and the punishment under the Pakistan Penal Code.\n\nExcept for a few occasions during 1971 Liberation War between then East and West Pakistan. The Bengali Separatists (Muktibahini) and their associated groups burned several flags as well as the flags of the armed forces of Pakistan. No incident of National Flag burning has been witnessed.\n\nOn 9 January 1964, a dispute broke out between Panamanian students and Americans living in the Panama Canal Zone over the right of the flag of Panama to be raised next to the flag of the United States, as the Canal Zone was then a disputed territory between the two nations. During the scuffle a Panamanian flag carried by Panamanian students was torn. This sparked four days of riots that ended with 22 Panamanians and four Americans dead and with Panama breaking diplomatic relations with the United States. This event is considered very important in the decision to negotiate and sign the Torrijos-Carter Treaties, by whose terms the Panama Canal administration was handed over to the Panamanian Government on 31 December 1999. 9 January is known as Martyrs' Day and is commemorated in Panama as a day of mourning.\n\nThe precise law in Peru is unclear, but such acts are clearly capable of causing outrage. In 2008 the dancer, model and actress Leysi Suárez appeared naked photographed using Peru's flag as a saddle while mounted on a horse. The country's defence minister said she would face charges that could put her in jail for up to four years for offending patriotic symbols\". However the case was closed in 2010.\n\nArticle III, Section 4 of the 1987 Philippine constitution reads as follows:\nSection 34a the Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines declares that it is a prohibited act \"[t]o mutilate, deface, defile, trample on or cast contempt or commit any act or omission casting dishonor or ridicule upon the flag or over its surface;\"\n\nSection 50 declares, \"Any person or judicial entity which violates any of the provisions of this Act shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than Five thousand pesos (5,000.00) not more than Twenty thousand pesos (P20,000.00), or by imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court: Provided, That for any second and additional offenses, both fine and imprisonment shall always be imposed: Provided, That in case the violation is committed by a juridical person, its President or Chief Executive Officer thereof shall be liable.\"\n\nCurrently, according to article 332 of the Penal Code, \"Who publicly, by means of words, gestures or print publication, or by other means of public communication, insults the Republic, the Flag or the National Anthem, the coats of arms or the symbols of Portuguese sovereignty, or fails to show the respect they are entitled to, shall be punished with up to two years imprisonment or a fine of up to 240 days\". In the case of the regional symbols, the person shall be punished with up to one year imprisonment or a fine of up to 120 days (fines are calculated based on the defendant's income).\n\nThe Portuguese Penal Code (article 323) also forbids the desecration of foreign symbols: \"Who publicly, by means of words, gestures or print publication, or by other means of public communication, insults the official flag or other symbol of sovereignty of a foreign State or of an international organization of which Portugal is a member shall be punished with up to one year imprisonment or a fine of up to 120 days.\" This article applies under two conditions (article 324): that Portugal maintains diplomatic relations with the insulted country, and that there is reciprocity (i.e., that the insulted country would also punish any insult against Portuguese symbols of sovereignty, should they occur there).\n\nOn 5 October 2012, Cavaco Silva, then-President of the Republic, during the celebration of the 102 years of the Portuguese Republic, mistakenly flew the national flag upside down, which generated much controversy, with the Portuguese people regarding it as a \"joke\" and as a sign of disrespect.\n\nThe Romanian Penal Code no longer prohibits flag desecration (as it was the case with the previous penal code). Several laws attempting to reinstate punishments for manifestations which express contempt for the Romanian symbols (according to the constitution, these are the flag, national day, anthem and coat-of-arms) have not been approved.\n\nDuring the Romanian Revolution, the Communist era flag was flown with a hole on the coat of arms.\n\nThe flag of Saudi Arabia bears the \"shahada\" or Islamic declaration of faith. Because the \"shahada\" is considered holy, Saudi Arabia's flag code is extremely strict and even the slightest violation amounts to desecration not only of the flag but is also blasphemous to Islam. This has led to several incidents of controversy. In 1994, McDonald's printed carry-out bags bearing the flags of all nations participating in the FIFA World Cup (with a green flag with Saudi Arabia's coat of arms superimposed, rather than the Saudi flag), while Coca-Cola did the same on cans of soda. Because of Saudi outrage, the companies stopped producing those items. Also during the FIFA World Cup, in 2002, Saudi officials protested against printing the flag on a soccer ball on the belief that kicking the creed with the foot was totally unacceptable.\n\nIn Serbia, flag desecration is illegal and on 20 May 2009 secretary general of the International Workers' Association Ratibor Trivunac was arrested and punished with 10 days in prison for burning an American flag during the visit of the US Vice President Joe Biden. Due to the mass demonstrations and protests, he was freed from prison two days later.\n\nSouth Korean \"Criminal Act\" punishes flag desecration in various ways:\n\n\nThe flag of the Soviet Union was burned many times by protestors against its government's policies, for instance in Brazil by those protesting the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia of 1968, and in New York City in 1985 by protesters against the Soviet–Afghan War. The Soviet flag has also been burned during the Euromaidan in Ukraine.\n\nThe desecration of national symbols is not specifically criminal, but flag desecration is prosecuted under the more general clauses against disorderly conduct.\n\nDestruction, removal, or desecration of national emblems installed by a public authority (i.e., the Swiss flag, the Swiss coat of arms, the cantonal or municipal flags and coats of arms) is punishable by a monetary penalty or imprisonment of up to three years according to the Swiss federal penal code. The destruction or desecration of privately owned flags or coats of arms is legal.\n\nIn October 2018, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha ordered the Foreign Ministry to investigate fashion footwear in Paris that incorporates the colours of the Thai national flag. Photos of the shoes, shown on the \"Vogue Paris\" Facebook page taken during Paris Fashion Week, outraged Thai social media users, some of whom demanded apologies and jail sentences for the perpetrators. As was pointed out in the Bangkok daily, \"The Nation\", \"The combination of the Thai flag and human feet is a contentious cultural cocktail for Thais.\" \n\nThe designers are immune from prosecution as the shoes were made and displayed outside Thailand. Were the offence committed in Thailand, those responsible could face a 2,000 baht fine or a year in jail.\n\nA spokesman at the Thai National Flag Museum commented that no one has a copyright on the flag's colours or the order in which they are presented.\n\nThe flag of Turkey bears the star and crescent over a red field that represents the blood of martyrs which is considered sacred. Under the 1983 Turkish flag law, burning the flag is strictly forbidden, punishable by a prison sentence of three years. Displaying or pulling a torn or discolored flag to flagpole is also illegal. Taking down the flag is prohibited and punishable by a prison sentence of eighteen years.\n\nIn Ukraine, desecration of national symbols, including the national flag, is a crime punishable by up to three years in jail.\n\nThe law of England and Wales and the law of Scotland has a concept of \"flag desecration\".\n\nIn May 1998, in a protest by 2000 former prisoners of war, a Burma Railway veteran torched the Rising Sun banner before both Emperor Akihito and Queen Elizabeth. Police were persuaded by the crowd not to arrest him. A year later, two \"committed socialists\" threw a burning Union flag in the direction of the Queen's motor vehicle. They were arrested for breach of the peace, subsequently pleaded guilty and were fined a total of £450. In 2001 at RAF Feltwell, home of United States Air Force's 5th Space Surveillance Squadron, a protester defaced the US Flag with the words \"Stop Star Wars\" before stepping in front of a vehicle and stamping on the flag. Her conviction under S5 Public Order Act 1986 was overturned as incompatible with Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nIn 2011, a republican group of approximately 20–30 students at King's College, Cambridge influenced the burning of a large Union flag, the centrepiece of the Student Union's decorations to celebrate the royal wedding. King's College Student Union condemned the action as a \"needlessly divisive and violent way to make a political point... [the] Union flag is a symbol and therefore can mean different things to different people in different contexts.\"\n\nIn 2006, to allow greater police control over extremist protesters, 17 MPs signed a House of Commons motion calling for burning of the Union Flag to be made a criminal offence.\n\nUnlike the rest of the United Kingdom, the law in Northern Ireland has varied since its foundation in 1921. The Union Flag of the United Kingdom, the former Flag of Northern Ireland, and the tricolour of the Republic of Ireland are often defaced or burnt in Northern Ireland as a political provocation or as a protest.\n\nThe Queen's Colours and Regimental Colours are a very important symbol for a British Army regiment and for many regiments in the Commonwealth which have inherited the British Army's traditions. In a Line Regiment the Colour stand consists of these two flags, and damage to such a symbol would be a considered a great insult to the regiment by its members.\n\nIn the British armed forces, it is usual for flag-bearers to lower flags and standards, even Queen's and Regimental Colours, so that they are draped on the ground, as part of a Royal Salute or during the two-minute silence on Remembrance Sunday. This mark of respect, known as vailing, is not considered to be a desecration of the colours.\n\nThe flag of the United States is sometimes burned in protest of the policies of the American government, both within the country and abroad. The United States Supreme Court in \"Texas v. Johnson\", , and reaffirmed in \"U.S. v. Eichman\", , has ruled that due to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, it is unconstitutional for a government (whether federal, state, or municipal) to prohibit the desecration of a flag, due to its status as \"symbolic speech.\" However, content-neutral restrictions may still be imposed to regulate the time, place, and manner of such expression. If the flag that was burned was someone else's property (as it was in the \"Johnson\" case, since Johnson had stolen the flag from a Texas bank's flagpole), the offender could be charged with petty larceny (a flag usually sells at retail for less than USD 20), or with destruction of private property, or possibly both.\n\nThere have been several proposed Flag Desecration Amendments to the Constitution of the United States which would allow Congress to enact laws to prohibit flag desecration:\n\nIn 1862, during the Union army's occupation of New Orleans in the American Civil War, William B. Mumford was executed by hanging after the occupation of the city of New Orleans by the forces under the command of General Benjamin Franklin Butler for removing a United States flag.\n\nIn 1864, John Greenleaf Whittier wrote the poem \"\", which told of a (probably fictional) incident in which Confederate soldiers were deterred from defacing an American flag. The poem contains the famous lines:\n\"\"Shoot, if you must, this old gray head,\"<br>\n\"But spare your country's flag,\" she said.\"\n\nDuring the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War, American flags were sometimes burned during war protest demonstrations.\n\nAfter the \"Johnson\" decision, the Flag Protection Act was passed, protecting flags from anyone who \"mutilates, defaces, physically defiles, burns, maintains on the floor or ground, or tramples upon any flag\". This decision was later struck down in the \"Eichman\" decision. After that case, several flag burning amendments to the Constitution were proposed. On 22 June 2005, a Flag Desecration Amendment was passed by the House with the needed two-thirds majority. On 27 June 2006, another attempt to pass a ban on flag burning was rejected by the Senate in a close vote of 66 in favor, 34 opposed, one vote short of the two-thirds majority needed to send the amendment to be voted on by the states.\n\nIn common usage, the phrase 'flag burning' refers only to burning a flag as an act of protest. However the United States Flag Code states that \"the flag, when it is in such condition that it is no longer a fitting emblem for display (for example, the flag being faded or torn), should be destroyed in a dignified way, preferably by burning\".\n\nFlying an American flag upside down is not necessarily meant as political protest. The practice has its origin in a distress signal; displaying a flag in this manner is \"a signal of dire distress in instances of extreme danger to life or property\"; It can also be viewed as an act of desecration. It has been used by extension to make a statement about distress in civic, political, or other areas. On the 13 April 1996 episode of \"Saturday Night Live\", musical guests Rage Against the Machine made a statement about the host, billionaire Steve Forbes, by hanging two upside-down American flags from their amplifiers.\n\nThe Battle Flag of the North Virginian Army, commonly referred to as the Confederate flag, has sometimes been burned in protest as well. In 2000, protesters from the Jewish Defense League burned Confederate and Nazi flags to protest an arson attempt against a Reno, Nevada synagogue. This was criticized by a representative of the Anti-Defamation League, who said that it was more effective to work with the police and other authorities rather than to engage in \"tactics which inflame and exacerbate situations.\"\n\nThe Virginian battle flag is given the same protection from burning and desecration as the U.S. flag in five U.S. states: Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina.\n\nDesecration of the national flag is forbidden, and desecration of the national flag by an Uruguayan citizen is regarded as mischief of loyalty; improper manipulation or adulteration of national symbols is prohibited.\n\nArticle 28 law 9.943 of July 20, 1940 and reglementary decrees of December 19 of that year and May 26, June 10 and 1 July 1943 say\n″Every citizen, legal or natural, is obligated to swear a loyal oath at the National Flag, by means of public and solemn act.″\n\nThe Oath to the flag has to be taken by citizens at least once in life, the formal act is given on special celebration at a 19 June at every educational institute, defection contrives plenty granting of citizenship rights.\n\nDamaged national flags are burnt by the Uruguayan army every 24 September.\n\nSince the demonstrations against the refusal by the government to renew the broadcasting license of RCTV (a major TV network), the upside-down flag of Venezuela has been adopted as a symbol of protest for this and other alleged threats to civil liberties. Demonstrators claim that it is a sign of distress and a call for help. However, government and ruling-party officials insist that these demonstrators are desecrating the flag, manipulated by the enemies of the people. An official video sharply criticizing this practice as disrespectful and traitorous was produced. Globovisión prepended to the video a statement denouncing the message as violative of the Law on Social Responsibility on Radio and Television, \"for constituting anonymous official propaganda\".\n\nIn 2006 a United Nations flag was burned during a political campaign in Austin, Texas, USA in protest against United Nations policy. The other candidate later claimed that it was an American flag that was burned. In 2009 a UN flag was dragged on the ground to show disrespect in a Tea Party protest in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.\n\n"}
{"id": "40076568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40076568", "title": "Government crowdsourcing", "text": "Government crowdsourcing\n\nGovernment crowdsourcing is a form of crowdsourcing employed by governments to better leverage the collective knowledge and experience of their people by tapping into their ability to see connections, understand issues, and coordinate action. It has tended to take the form of public feedback, project development, or petitions in the past, but has grown to include public drafting of bills and constitutions, among other things. This form of public involvement in the governing process differs from older systems of popular action, from town halls to referenda, in that it is primarily conducted online or through a similar IT medium.\n\nThe increasing embrace of government crowdsourcing, both actual and nominal, has been driven by a demand for greater civic engagement and popular demands for accountability, as well as by the tendency of authors and journalists to use the term \"crowdsourcing\" to describe various collaborative online process. Whether many recent programs of public involvement, such as ship naming polls, and online structures of participatory democracy, such as online petitions, are forms of government crowdsourcing is still debated today. Various thinkers, including but not limited to Daren Brabham, Beth Noveck, and Helene Landemore, have each presented their own definitions of what crowdsourcing as a whole, and government crowdsourcing by extension, necessarily entails, but there has been no consensus thus far. Governments which have adopted crowdsourcing as a method of information gathering, policy guidance, and in some cases a vital part of the lawmaking process include Brazil, Finland, Iceland, Egypt, Tunisia, and the United States, among many others. Each case varies in structure and level of influence granted to involved citizens, ranging from massive crowds providing purely advisory feedback to small randomly selected committees drafting entire pieces of legislation.\n\nThough, in the past, direct democracy employed many of the same mechanisms as government crowdsourcing, and indeed could resemble it at times, the objectives direct democracy tended to pursue and the methods it used set it apart. Crowdsourcing requires a specific goal, rewards to be gained by both the crowd and the government, and an open request for anyone to participate, as well as to be conducted through the internet or some other IT medium. Programs which truly resembled pre-Internet government crowdsourcing did not emerge until the 17th and 18th centuries. These were government-sponsored competitions such as the Alkali prize, which lead to the development of the Leblanc Process, and the Longitude Prize.\n\nOther early precursors to government crowdsourcing either followed the same model of reaching out in search of an expert or inventor capable of solving the problem at hand, via what Brabham refers to as the \"broadcast-search model.\" The American government distributed large tasks, such as mapping wind and current patterns along trade routes among American sailors, delegating the discovery of existing knowledge to a crowd in a model similar to what is now referred to as \"distributed human intelligence tasking.\" \n\nFinally, the French Cahiers de doléances were the most directly governmental example of pre-Internet government crowdsourcing. In the leadup to the French Revolution, the three estates listed their grievances and made suggestions to improve the government. These problems, complaints, and proposals were considered and debated through the sessions of the Estates general. Similar efforts to hear the grievances and suggestions of subjects, and later constituents, can be seen at the heart of various political institutions around the world, such as town halls in the United States, petitions in the United Kingdom and beyond.\n\nToday, government crowdsourcing follows similar models, albeit utilizing the internet and other IT mediums. Around the world, governments continue to use competitions, delegate large tasks, and reach out to their constituents for feedback both on specific bills and for guidance on various policies. They have also begun, in countries as different as Brazil, British Columbia, and Finland, to not only draw feedback, expertise, and ideas from the crowd, but also specific provisions and wordings for legislation and even constitutions. These initiatives, which give participating constituents greater leeway to both develop their ideas, deliberate, and be heard, mirroring what Brabham describes as \"peer-vetted creative crowdsourcing.\" \n\nThe established models continue to work as well as they ever did, but attempts at crowdlaw and crowdsourced constitutions have met with mixed results. In some cases, the crowdsourcing platform has been purely suggestive, as in British Columbia, and their proposal ultimately put to a vote. Generally, once those crowdsourced suggestions entered the political system, they were either voted down or buried under mountains of procedural delay. In other rarer cases, the efforts succeeded and the crowdsourced laws were adopted, though in somewhat amended form, as happened with the Brazilian Internet Bill of Rights and in the Constitutional Convention (Ireland). Other efforts to crowdsource government are still in process, or have only been tested on a limited scale, leaving their long-term results still uncertain.\n\nIn several post-revolutionary moments, notably those of Tunisia, Iceland, and Egypt, the new governments have also used crowdsourcing as a means of securing legitimacy and addressing the issues which brought them into power in the first place. This method of constitution making has been met with a limited level of success. The Icelandic constitution, crowdsourced in the aftermath of the 2009 Icelandic financial crisis protests, utilized a multi-layered crowdsourcing structure, with an elected council at the top synthesizing suggestions into the new constitution, a popular forum for the crowd to make their voiced heard, and a Constitutional committee to organize the other parts. By contrast, the Egyptian and Tunisian constitutional processes involved the crowd much less, with an official constitutional assembly composed of traditional political elites who simply received feedback on their draft clauses online.\n\nToday, there is still no definitive definition of crowdsourcing, and even less agreement as to what aspects of participatory democracy fit under that description. Most academics and writers tend to create their own definitions. The most expansive definition of crowdsourcing, drawn from a survey of thousands of papers on the topic, describes it as something for which: \n(a) there is a clearly defined crowd;\n(b) there exists a task with a clear goal;\n(c) the recompense received by the crowd is clear;\n(d) the crowdsourcer is clearly identified;\n(e) the compensation to be received by the crowdsourcer is clearly defined;\n(f) it is an online assigned process of participative type;\n(g) it uses an open call of variable extent;\n(h) it uses the internet \n\nOther definitions are less exhaustive and more case-specific. Helene Landemore, following a similar line of thought as Brabham, defines crowdsourcing as an online problem-solving and production model in which an undefined crowd helps to complete a task by submitting knowledge, information, or talent. In its unrefined form, there is no accountability mechanism, and the crowd, unlike contractors in an outsourcing system, is not vetted. She further distinguishes it from Wikipedia-esque \"commons-based peer production,\" noting that crowdsourcing generally takes the form of individuals commenting and making suggestions in a vacuum as opposed to deliberating, discussing, and collaborating with one another. \n\nBrahbam also makes a subtle distinction which makes his definition substantially more restrictive. For an aspect of participatory government to be crowdsourcing, it cannot be purely a government-driven sequence of responses from the crowd. Both sides must engage in direction and deliberation on the project. Under this definition, certain elements of governmental participation, such as the Peer to Patent project aren't crowdsourcing at all, but rather similar processes which have been agglomerated under a new and trendy name.\n\nMabhoudi, on the other hand, defines it purely in terms of constitution making. His conception of crowdsourcing consists of posting a draft constitution online, utilizing both official websites and social media pages. Those platforms were used for feedback, commentary, recommendations, and possibly final approval. Left out of his definition, but noted in his description of the process of Egyptian constitution making is the use of committees to document, digest, and synthesize the volumes of online feedback into a more readable form, which served an indispensable role in the success, however temporary, of the crowdsourcing process.\n\nNoveck refers to government crowdsourcing as \"collaborative democracy.\" She defines that as a process of using technology to improve government outcomes by soliciting experience from groups of self-selected peers working together in groups of open networks. Her version of government crowdsourcing more closely resembles the government competitions of the 17th and 18th centuries, or Amazon's Mechanical Turk, than the more participatory model favored by other thinkers. That is, crowds gathered to work on an agenda set out by the government, pooling their diverse expertises to cover every possible field of information.\n\nThe Virtual Student Foreign Service is a crowd-work and eIntern program for college students.\n\nThe Office of eDiplomacy is developing an internal crowdsourcing platform called CrowdWork that will facilitate collaborative work worldwide. Any office or mission will be able to post tasks online and any State Department employee with the requisite skills will be able to respond and complete the task. This creates an internal marketplace for foreign affairs work and matches State Department opportunities and requirements with untapped skills and experience. The platform is currently under development with an anticipated launch in December 2013. This crowd-work platform will be developed as part of an innovation toolkit for the U.S. Government. This project is developed through a partnership between the State Department office of eDiplomacy, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, the General Services Administration and the State Department Office of the Director General. The crowdwork element of the innovation toolkit will be developed as an open source platform for public use.\n\nThe State Department Sounding Board is an internal ideation tool for employees to suggest improvements to the Department.\n\nThe Humanitarian Information Unit (HIU), a division within the Office of the Geographer and Global Issues at the U.S. Department of State, is working to increase the availability of spatial data in areas experiencing humanitarian emergencies. Built from a crowdsourcing model, the new \"Imagery to the Crowd\" process publishes high-resolution commercial satellite imagery, purchased by the United States Government, in a web-based format that can be easily mapped by volunteers. The digital map data generated by the volunteers are stored in a database maintained by OpenStreetMap (OSM), a UK-registered non-profit foundation, under a license that ensures the data are freely available and open for a range of uses.\n\nInspired by the success of the OSM mapping effort after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Imagery to the Crowd process harnesses the combined power of satellite imagery and the volunteer mapping community to help aid agencies provide informed and effective humanitarian assistance, and plan recovery and development activities. The HIU partners with the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT) on many of the Imagery to the Crowd projects. HOT provides volunteer support and access to its micro-tasking platform, the OSM Tasking Manager, which coordinates volunteer efforts by breaking down large mapping tasks into smaller areas that can be digitized in 45–60 minutes. A 5-minute Imagery to the Crowd Ignite talk is available.\n\nThe Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs partnered with RocketHub on the Alumni Engagement and Innovation Fund (AEIF) 2.0 which helps exchange program alumni crowdsource funding for their innovative projects.\n\nThe Special Advisor for Civil Society and Emerging Democracies created Diplomacy Lab as a way for the Department to crowdsource longer term projects from the academic community.\n\nHuman Resource's Flex Connect program facilitates crowdsourcing of talent from across the Department.\n\neDiplomacy is also piloting a State Department GitHub Account to collaborate on open source software projects.\n\nThe Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance also ran a crowdsourced Arms Control Challenge examining how technology could aid arms control efforts.\n\nIn June 2012, USAID launched the Agency's first-ever crowdsourcing initiative to pinpoint the location of USAID Development Credit Authority (DCA) loan data and make the dataset publicly available. Crowdsourcing is a distributed problem-solving process whereby tasks are outsourced to a network of people known as \"the crowd\".\n\nThe engagement of the Crowd was an innovative way to process data and increase the transparency of the Agency. Visualizing where USAID enhances the capacity of the private sector can signal new areas for potential collaboration with host countries, researchers, development organizations, and the public. A case study explains the organizational, legal, and technical steps behind making these data open.\n\nCDCology is a way for CDC staff to post unclassified, one-minute to one-day long (micro)tasks that can be solved by undergraduate, graduate, and post-graduate student volunteers. This expands the agency's workforce and relieves staff to focus on in-depth assignments. In return, universities can offer students short challenges directly impacting national initiatives and gain experience with government work. This allows students to bring fresh ideas to smaller projects and they can add \"micro-volunteering for CDC\" to their résumé.\n\nPilot project launched by the Administrator's office called Skills Marketplace allowing micro-details to other offices and projects.\n\nPart of GSA's Digital Services Innovation Center, Open Opportunities include micro/macro-tasking, 20% details and full-time detail opportunities for GSA employees within GSA.\n\nChallenge.gov is an online challenge platform administered by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) in partnership with ChallengePost that empowers the U.S. Government and the public to bring the best ideas and top talent to bear on our nation’s most pressing challenges. This platform is the latest milestone in the Administration's commitment to use prizes and challenges to promote innovation.\n\nIdea Factory empowers the Transportation Security Administration's large and dispersed workforce to submit and collaborate on innovative ideas to improve TSA and keep the nation's transportation systems secure.\n\nDigital Volunteers is a crowd-work platform for transcribing historical documents.\n\neMammal is a crowdsourcing collection of images and data on N American mammal populations\nThe National Archives uses digital volunteers to identify signatures in documents and index the archive.\n\nRemember Me is a project to post 1100 pictures of children displaced during the Jewish Holocaust to identify these children, piece together information about their wartime and postwar experiences, and facilitate renewed connections among these young survivors, their families, and other individuals who were involved in their care during and after the war.\n\nThe World Memory Project aims to digitize the records of victims of the Jewish Holocaust.\n\nCoCreate is a crowdsourced effort to identify and solve real life soldier challenges.\n\nThe US Navy crowdsourced solutions to Somali Piracy via its Massive Multiplayer Online Wargame Leveraging the Internet. It is a message-based game to encourage innovative thinking by many people, connected via the Web. It has been used to study a number of topics, such as how the Navy can prepare for the future of energy...starting in 2021 and beyond\n\nThe United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has been working to integrate crowdsourcing into the patent process in a number of ways. The first key step was the introduction of the Peer to Patent program at the application review stage. Peer to Patent was designed to allow members of the public with relevant technical skills and information to submit information useful to the patent examiner when assessing the claims of pending patent applications. The first pilot Peer to Patent program, limited to software and business methods applications, was launched in 2007 and remained open through 2009. After reviewing the results, a second expanded pilot was launched in 2010, extending coverage to include biotechnology, bioinformatics, telecommunications, and speech recognition.\n\nThe USPTO was further encouraged to implement crowdsourcing by the Obama Administration’s Executive Action on Crowdsourcing Prior Art. The order was created with the goal of improving patent quality overall and fostering innovation by integrating new ways for companies, experts, and the general public to find and submit “prior art” or evidence needed to ascertain if an invention is novel.\n\nHaving tested crowdsourcing during the application review process, the USPTO turned to explore applications for crowdsourcing during post-grant patent review. To do this, the USPTO consulted experts in the government and private sector to share their expertise through two roundtable discussions. The Roundtable on the Use of Crowdsourcing and Third-Party Preissuance Submissions to Identify Relevant Prior Art, took place April 10, 2014. Presenters at the roundtable included Andrea Casillas and Christopher Wong sharing their experience with Peer to Patent; Micah Siegel from Ask Patents, a patent crowdsourcing project through stack exchange; Pedram Sameni from Patexia, a crowdsourcing platform focused on patent research and prior art searching; and Cheryl Milone of Article One Partners.\n\nThe USPTO held their second roundtable on the use of crowdsourcing to identify relevant prior art on December 2, 2014. This roundtable focused on two key questions: (1) how the USPTO can utilize crowdsourcing tools to obtain relevant prior art in order to enhance the quality of examination and issued patents; and (2) ways the USPTO can leverage existing private sector solutions for the electronic receipt and hosting of crowdsourced materials as a means to provide prior art to examiners. Speakers at the roundtable included Matt Levy (Computer & Communications Industry Association), Mark Nowotarski (Markets, Patents & Alliances LLC), Cheryl Milone (Article One Partners), and Pedram Sameni (Patexia Inc.).\n\nThe USPTO continues to consider additional applications for crowdsourcing following the roundtables and public comments submitted in response. As part of that goal, they are working with Christopher Wong, who was appointed to be the Presidential Innovation Fellow supporting crowdsourcing and patent reform initiatives for the USPTO.\n\nThe Patient Feedback Challenge is about getting the NHS to use feedback from patients to improve services, by spreading the best approaches already out there. Ideas are crowdsourced, and then bid on by NHS organizations.\n\nSince 2010 the FCO has made the Human Rights and Democracy Report available online and available for markup by NGOs, policy makers, academics and the general public. The comments are forwarded to the relevant policy teams for evaluation and to respond to accordingly.\n"}
{"id": "2803398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2803398", "title": "Human rights in Finland", "text": "Human rights in Finland\n\nHuman rights in Finland are freedom of speech, religion, association, and assembly as upheld in law and in practice. Individuals are guaranteed basic rights under the constitution, by legislative acts, and in treaties relating to human rights ratified by the Finnish government. The constitution provides for an independent judiciary.\n\nFinland has been ranked above average among the world's countries in democracy, press freedom, and human development.\n\nAmnesty International has expressed concern regarding some issues in Finland, such as alleged permitting of stopovers of CIA rendition flights, the imprisonment of objectors to military service, and societal discrimination against Romani people and members of other ethnic and linguistic minorities.\n\nOn 6 December 1917, Finland declared independence. Previously, Finland had been a part of Sweden (1253–1808) and then an autonomous part of Russia (1809–1917).\n\nIn peace time, as an independent state, Finland's criminal justice system has never invoked the death penalty. In 1825, when Finland was an autonomous state under Russia, Tahvo Putkonen was executed. His was the last peacetime execution. In 1944, during World War II, the last wartime executions were carried out.\n\nUnder Finnish law, no Court ordered search warrant is required in order for police to conduct a search and seizure procedure. The European Court of Human Rights and the Finnish Parliamentary Deputy Ombudsman have been critical of improper search and seizure procedures used by the Finnish police.\n\nAdvocated by early liberal thinker and member of parliament of Finnish origin Anders Chydenius, Sweden adopted one of the first freedom of the press acts in 1766. The act abolished the previously mandatory pre-press censorship of printed works, although blasphemy and outright criticism of the monarch remained forbidden. However, the act was rolled back and reintroduced multiple times. During the period of Russian sovereignty censorship was practiced by the Imperial Russian government. The 1905 unrest in Russia led to the November Manifesto by the Czar, reintroducing freedom of the speech and press. With independence, freedom of speech and press was reaffirmed in the new constitution and generally respected. The major exception was wartime censorship during World War II. Some leftist works were banned in the 1930s whereas during the era of Finlandization, major news outlets practiced self-censorship in order to not antagonize the Soviet Union.\n\nBlasphemy remains illegal, as does incitement to ethnic hatred.\n\nIn April 2016 Finland's national broadcaster Yle became under pressure from the Finance Minister Alexander Stubb and tax authorities to hand over information related to the extensive Panama Papers data leak. This may jeopardise freedom of speech in Finland and the media access in any news related to corruption in Finland. Alexander Stubb has repeatedly expressed his willingness to forgive all financial crimes related to tax havens (last time in his statements during the Government hearing in the Parliament in connection to Panama papers). Finland’s tax authorities have threatened to secure search warrants to raid Yle’s premises and journalists’ homes in pursuit of the so-called Panama Papers. About a dozen Finnish lawyers or Finnish business persons have worked with Mossack Fonseca to build tax companies from 1990 to year 2015.\n\nIn 1907, Finland adopted universal suffrage, making the nation one of the first to allow all adult citizens, regardless of wealth or gender, to vote and stand for election. Within the population, 3.6% are foreign residents. Since 1917, two general referendums have been held. The first was the Finnish prohibition referendum, 1931 and the second, the Finnish European Union membership referendum, 1994.\n\nSince 2012, \"citizens' initiatives\" have allowed citizens to request that the parliament consider proposed legislation. A minimum of 50,000 supporters must sign a petition to allow the initiative to proceed. The first successful citizens' initiative was the banning of fur farming. Signatures supporting the initiative were received from 70,000 citizens in the designated time period. The second citizen's initiative was for equal marriage rights in 2013.\n\nAfter New Zealand and Australia, Finland was the third nation to allow women to vote. In 1907, Finland was the first nation to allow women to vote and to also compete in a parliamentary election. The first female minister elected to the Parliament of Finland was Miina Sillanpää. She served as the Second Minister for Social Affairs in the 1926 to 1927 parliamentary term. Tarja Halonen, who served from 2000 to 2012, was the first female President of Finland.\n\nIn 1878, in Porvoo, Charlotta Backman became the first female director of a post office.\n\nIn 1886, Vera Hjält (born 1857 - died 1947) opened a factory to manufacture her patented carpenters' bench. In 1903, she became the first woman in Finland to be made a trade inspector. She was required to end disputes and strikes. She worked to end discrimination against women in the work place. Hjalt was a Member of Parliament for ten years.\n\nTekla Hultin (born 1864) was the first woman to receive a doctorate from the University of Helsinki (then the \"Helsingin Keisarillinen Aleksanterin yliopisto.\") She went on to study in Russia and France and was a Member of Parliament for 15 years. (Hultin's mother also wanted to study but her father prevented her from doing so.)\n\nUntil 1926, Finnish women applying for public office had to apply for an exemption based on gender. In this respect, equality was not achieved until 1975.\n\nFinnish women may inherit and own property. Aurora Karamzin (1808 - 1902) inherited her ex-husband, a Russian, Paul Demidov's estate. After the death of her second husband, Andrei Karamzin, Karamzin managed her property and industrial assets. She participated in social security work in Finland and in Russia and worked in education and health care. In 1867, she founded the \"Helsingin Diakonissalaitos.\"\n\nOn 6 March 1988, the first women to become priests were ordained in Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland. The first woman to become a bishop was elected in 2010.\n\nStill today, Finland struggles with a chronic human rights violence against women, as Finland appears as the second violent country for women in European Union. Each year, in Finland, up to twenty women are killed by their husbands or ex-husbands. Human rights organisations, including Amnesty International, have criticised the lack of action to fulfill the needed services for the victims of gendered violence, listed in the resolution of the Istanbul Convention. Access to these services is both limited an unequal based on one's place of residence.\n\nThe UN Human Rights Committee has expressed concern about gender inequality in Finnish working life. In 2013, the difference between salary received by men and that received by women, for the same work, was 8 percent. Employers provided more training for men, while women applied for training in greater numbers than men.\n\nFinnish law calls upon companies with more than thirty employees to have a gender equality plan. In August 2013, many companies neglected to obey this law. However, the law was poorly enforced.\n\nFinland has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). Having children work or beg is forbidden as is any misuse of children. Furthermore, it is illegal to hit a child under unreasonable conditions.\n\nThe number and backgrounds of teen prostitutes in Finland is not recorded. Buying or attempting to buy sex from a minor is a crime in Finland. Legal responsibility for the deed always lies with the buyer.\n\nIn February 2013, Finland had not signed the international Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples nor the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (ILO-convention 169). In March 2014, Finland had not ratified the ILO-convention 169. Sauli Niinistö, the President of Finland, called the treaty irrelevant. However, the Sami people of Finland's north and Lapland have had no special rights, for example, in land rights for reindeer herding. In October 2011, the UN Human Rights Committee called for the cessation of the killing of reindeer in Nellim, Inari. Reindeer owners and the Metsähallitus (Department of Forestry) were in dispute over this matter.\n\nFinland practices forced sterilization for people who have undergone sex reassignment therapy. Changing one's legal gender is only possible when a mental disorder is diagnosed and is not available for minors.\n\nFinnish male citizens undergo compulsory military service. Civilian service was 13 months in duration whereas conscripts, such as , non-commissioned officers and certain specialists such as certain vehicle operators served only 12 months. The average duration of service in the army is eight months. The inequity was justified by the hours of work performed by each group. In 2008, the duration of civilian service was changed to 12 months. Because it remains longer than the minimum time spent in military service, Amnesty International views it as a punitive measure. In addition, are sent to prison. According to Amnesty, they are prisoners of conscience.<ref name=\"Amnesty2016/2017\"></ref>\n\nIn 2011, the government of Finland granted arms export licenses to twenty-five countries in contravention of European Union guidelines. In October 2011, the Finnish Ministry of Defence granted export licenses for the transport of sniper rifles and ammunition to Kazakhstan.\n\nBy 2011, Finland had not signed the United Nations Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families.\nEstonian workers, for example, may not have been paid for their work. Again as an example, in December 2011, a Chinese restaurant in Ideapark Lempäälä was ordered to pay €298,000 for migrant workers' losses in tax, wages and penalties. In 2013, Lauri Ihalainen, the Minister for Labour, called for equality in the labour market.\n\nDuring the Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant construction project, trade unions demanded equality in conditions for foreign workers. In November 2011, Polish migrant workers at Elektrobudowa disputed unpaid wages and trade union membership. The trade unions took their case to court. Thirty-two people were fired for joining the trade union \"Sähköliitto\".\n\nBritish migrant rights expert Andy Hall (activist) who worked for the Finnish NGO Finnwatch in Thailand was handed a four-year suspended prison sentence for his report on human rights abuses in the country's fruit-processing industry which products were exported in Finland. The charges related to publication of a report Cheap Has a High Price in 2013 by Finnwatch, a Finnish civil society organisation. The report outlined allegations of serious human rights violations, as use of child labour, at Natural Fruit Company's pineapple processing plant in Prachuap Khiri Khan province in Thailand. The products were imported in Finland by several trade companies (Kesko, Siwa and S Group).\n\nAccording to the Finnwatch report in 2015 Tokmanni had also failed to adequately assess its suppliers and in exercising human rights due diligence in its own imports supply chains. According to the report at Great Oriental, migrant workers had no visas or work permits and were paid illegally low wages.\n\nIn March 2013, Erkki Tuomioja, the Finnish Foreign minister joined other nations in calling for stricter observance of human rights in the European Union. In 2014, Finnwatch alleged several Finnish companies abroad had acted unethically.\n\nIn January 2013, Open Society Foundations, a US human rights organisation, alleged that CIA flights had operated through via Finland in secret. The Amnesty organisation supported the allegations.\n\nIn 2014, \"Kalla fakta\", a Swedish television program, reported that Stora Enso used child work in its Pakistan activities and that the company was aware of this from 2012.\n\n\n\nU.S. State Department Annual Reports\n"}
{"id": "81014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81014", "title": "Intelligence agency", "text": "Intelligence agency\n\nAn intelligence agency is a government agency responsible for the collection, analysis, and exploitation of information in support of law enforcement, national security, military, and foreign policy objectives.\n\nMeans of information gathering are both overt and covert and may include espionage, communication interception, cryptanalysis, cooperation with other institutions, and evaluation of public sources. The assembly and propagation of this information is known as intelligence analysis or intelligence assessment.\n\nIntelligence agencies can provide the following services for their national governments.\n\n\nThere is a distinction between \"security intelligence\" and \"foreign intelligence\". Security intelligence pertains to domestic threats (e.g., terrorism, espionage). Foreign intelligence involves information collection relating to the political, or economic activities of foreign states.\n\nSome agencies have been involved in assassination, arms trafficking, coups d'état, and the placement of misinformation (propaganda) as well as other covert operations, in order to support their own or their governments' interests.\n\n\nBooks\n\nJournals\n\nReports\n\n"}
{"id": "5029589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5029589", "title": "Interception of Communications Bill 2006", "text": "Interception of Communications Bill 2006\n\nThe Interception of Communications Bill of 2006 is a Zimbabwean bill that proposes to allow government agencies to intercept telephonic, e-mail and cellphone messages. The Bill also requires that operators of telecommunications services install software and hardware to enable interception of communication and storing of information specified by the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1581488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1581488", "title": "István Bethlen", "text": "István Bethlen\n\nCount István Bethlen de Bethlen (8 October 1874, Gernyeszeg – 5 October 1946, Moscow) was a Hungarian aristocrat and statesman and served as Prime Minister from 1921 to 1931.\n\nThe scion of a noble Transylvanian family, Bethlen was elected to the Hungarian parliament as a Liberal in 1901. Later, he served as a representative of the new Hungarian government at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. In that year, the weak centrist Hungarian government collapsed, and was soon replaced by a communist Hungarian Soviet Republic, under the leadership of Béla Kun. Bethlen quickly returned to Hungary to assume leadership of the anti-communist \"white\" government based in Szeged, along with former Austro-Hungarian admiral Miklós Horthy. After the \"white\" forces seized control of Hungary, Horthy was appointed Regent. Bethlen again took a seat in the Hungarian parliament, allying with the conservative factions there.\n\nIn 1919, Bethlen proposed a personal union between Romania and Hungary under the Romanian King. \n\nAfter the attempted return of King Charles IV to the throne of Hungary in 1921, Horthy asked Bethlen to form a strong government to eliminate the possibility of other such threats to the new country. Bethlen founded the Party of National Unity. Through a system of ballot manipulation, handing out government jobs, and changing the electoral law to enfranchise supporters, he was able to form a political machine that was unstoppable in Hungarian politics. Bethlen was also able to unite the two most powerful factors in Hungarian society, the wealthy, primarily Jewish industrialists in Budapest and the old Magyar gentry in rural Hungary, into a lasting coalition; this effectively checked the rise of Fascism in the country for at least a decade. Bethlen was also able to reach an accord with the labor unions, earning their support for the government and eliminating a source of domestic dissent.\n\nDuring his decade in office, Bethlen led Hungary into the League of Nations and arranged a close alliance with Fascist Italy, even entering into a Treaty of Friendship with Italy in 1927, in order to further the nation's revisionist hopes. He was, however, defeated in his attempts to change the Treaty of Trianon, which stripped Hungary of most of its territory after the First World War. The Great Depression shifted Hungarian politics to the extreme right, and Horthy replaced Bethlen with Gyula Károlyi, followed quickly by Gyula Gömbös, a noted Fascist and antisemite.\n\nIncreasingly shunted into political obscurity, Bethlen stood out as one of the few voices in Hungary actively opposed to an alliance with Nazi Germany. As it became apparent that Germany was going to lose the Second World War, Bethlen attempted, unsuccessfully, to negotiate a separate peace with the Allied powers. By the spring of 1945 most of Hungary had fallen to the advancing Soviet troops. The communists, who returned with the Soviets, immediately began their scheme to take over the country. They saw the aging Bethlen as a threat, a man who could unite the political forces against them. For this they had him arrested by the Soviets in April 1945. Soon after, Bethlen was taken to Moscow, where he died in prison on 5 October 1946.\n"}
{"id": "35991378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35991378", "title": "Kim Young-sam", "text": "Kim Young-sam\n\nKim Young-sam (; or ; 20 December 1927 – 22 November 2015) was a South Korean politician and democratic activist, who served as President of South Korea from 1993 to 1998. From 1961, he spent almost 30 years as one of the leaders of the South Korean opposition, and one of the most powerful rivals to the authoritarian regimes of Park Chung-hee and Chun Doo-hwan.\n\nElected president in 1992, Kim became the first civilian to hold the office in over 30 years. He was inaugurated on 25 February 1993, and served a single five-year term, presiding over a massive anti-corruption campaign, the arrest of his two predecessors, and an internationalization policy called \"Segyehwa\".\n\nKim was born in Geoje Island, by the southeastern tip of the Korean peninsula, to a rich fishing family on 20 December 1927, when Korea was under Imperial Japanese rule. He was the eldest of one son and five daughters in his family. During the Korean War, Kim served in the South Korean military as a student soldier (or Officer candidate). In 1952, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy from Seoul National University.\n\nIn 1954, Kim was elected to the National Assembly of South Korea, as a member of the party led by Syngman Rhee, the first president of South Korea. At the time of his election, Kim was the youngest member of the national assembly. A few months after his electoral victory, Kim left his party and joined the opposition when Rhee attempted to amend the constitution of South Korea. Kim then became a leading critic, along with Kim Dae-jung, of the military governments of Park Chung-hee and Chun Doo-hwan.\n\nIn 1974, he was elected as the president of the New Democratic Party. While he temporarily lost his power within the national assembly in 1976, Kim made a political comeback during the final year of Park Chung-hee's rule. Kim took a hardline policy of never compromising or cooperating with Park's Democratic Republican Party until the Yushin Constitution was repealed and boldly criticized Park's dictatorship, which could be punished with imprisonment under the new constitution.\n\nIn August 1979, Kim allowed around 200 female workers at the Y.H. Trading Company to use the headquarters of New Democratic Party as a place for their sit-in demonstration and pledged to protect them. One thousand policemen raided the party headquarters and arrested the workers. One female worker died in the process and many lawmakers trying to protect them were severely beaten, some requiring hospitalization. The YH Incident garnered widespread criticism and led to Kim's condemnation, with an assertion that Park's dictatorship would soon collapse. After this incident, Park was determined to remove Kim from the political scene, like the imprisoned Kim Dae-jung, and instructed the South Korean Central Intelligence Agency (KCIA) to engineer such a move. In September 1979, a court order suspended Kim's presidency of the New Democratic Party.\n\nWhen Kim called on the United States to stop supporting Park's dictatorship in an interview with the \"New York Times\", Park wanted to have Kim imprisoned while the Carter Administration, concerned over increasing human right violations, issued a strong warning not to persecute members of the opposition party. When Kim was expelled from the National Assembly in October 1979, the United States recalled its ambassador back to Washington, D.C., and all 66 lawmakers of the New Democratic Party resigned from the National Assembly.\n\nWhen it became known that the South Korean government was planning to accept the resignations selectively, uprisings broke out in Kim's hometown of Pusan. It was the biggest demonstration since the Syngman Rhee presidency, and spread to nearby Masan and other cities, with students and citizens calling for an end to the dictatorship. The crisis was one of the causes for the assassination of Park Chung-hee on 26 October 1979 by KCIA Director Kim Jae-gyu.\n\nThe government's oppressive stance towards the opposition continued under Chun Doo-hwan, who seized power with a military coup on 12 December 1979. Kim Young-Sam was expelled from the National Assembly for his democratic activities and banned from politics from 1980 to 1985. In 1983, he undertook a 21-day hunger strike protesting the dictatorship of Chun Doo-hwan.\n\nWhen the first democratic presidential election was held in 1987 after Chun's retirement, Kim Young-sam and Kim Dae-jung ran against each other, splitting the opposition vote and enabling ex-general Roh Tae-woo, Chun's hand-picked successor, to win the election. This was also despite support from the first female presidential candidate, Hong Sook-ja, who resigned her candidacy in order to support Kim. In 1990, he unexpectedly merged his Democratic Reunification Party with Roh's ruling Democratic Justice Party to form the Democratic Liberal Party, now the Liberty Korea Party.\n\nAs the candidate of the governing party, he defeated Kim Dae-jung in the 1992 presidential election. He was only the third civilian to hold the office, and the first since 1962.\n\nThe Kim Young-sam administration attempted to reform the government and the economy. One of the first acts of his government was to start an anti-corruption campaign, which began at the very top, as Kim promised not to use political slush funds.\n\nKim's government required government and military officials to publish their financial records, precipitating the resignation of several high-ranking officers and cabinet members. He had his two predecessors as president, Chun and Roh, arrested and indicted on charges of corruption and treason for their role in military coups, although they would be pardoned near the end of his term. Kim also granted amnesty to thousands of political prisoners, and removed the criminal convictions of pro-democracy protesters who had been arrested during the Gwangju massacre in the aftermath of the Coup d'état of December Twelfth. The anti-corruption campaign was also part of an attempt to reform the \"chaebol\", the large South Korean conglomerates which dominated the economy. However, Kim's anti-corruption message was damaged after his son was arrested for bribery and tax evasion related to the Hanbo scandal.\n\nIn 1994, when American president Bill Clinton mulled over attacking Nyongbyon, the centre of North Korea's nuclear program, Kim advised him to back down to prevent renewal of fighting.\n\nKim's new ministerial party, the DLP lost its narrow majority in the National Assembly in 1996. Kia Motors collapsed soon thereafter, setting off a chain of events which embroiled South Korea in the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis during the last year of his presidency.\n\nDuring the financial crisis, the collapse of Kia and other conglomerates led Kim to accept a $58 billion USD bailout from the International Monetary Fund.\n\nAfter his presidency, Kim travelled the world promoting democracy, and speaking at events such as \"Towards a Global Forum on New Democracies\" in Taiwan in January 2007.\n\nHe died in Seoul National University Hospital on 22 November 2015, from heart failure, at the age of 87. On 26 November 2015, a televised state funeral was held for Kim at the National Assembly lawn, during which Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn delivered the opening remarks. Later that day, Kim was buried in the Seoul National Cemetery.\n\nKim was a member of the Chunghyun Presbyterian Church and was fluent in Japanese and his native language, Korean. He was married to Son Myung-soon. He was survived by his children, two sons and three daughters, as well as his five younger sisters.\n\n"}
{"id": "27049128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27049128", "title": "Lawal Kaita", "text": "Lawal Kaita\n\nLawal Kaita (4 October 1932 – 2 January 2018) was a Nigerian politician elected on the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) platform as governor of Kaduna State, Nigeria, holding office between October and December 1983, when the Nigerian Second Republic ended with the coup that brought General Muhammadu Buhari to power.\n\nHe continued to be an influential politician in the Nigerian Fourth Republic and was one of the founders of the Action Congress of Nigeria (AC) party in September 2006. Some sources have attributed the following quote to him prior to the 2011 presidential election: \"The North is determined if it happens, to make Nigeria 'ungovernable' for President Jonathan or any other Southerner who finds his way to the seat of power on the platform of the PDP against the principle of the party's zoning policy.\"\n\nKaita was born on 4 October 1932 in Katsina, in the far north of Nigeria. \nHe is a blood relative of President Umaru Musa Yar'Adua and a member of the royal family of Nagogo, traditional rulers of the Emirate of Katsina.\n\nHe attended Barewa College, Zaria (1946–1950) and later studied at the London School of Economics (1971–1972).\n\nAfter returning to Nigeria, Lawal Kaita joined the Kaduna State civil service. He served as Secretary to the State Water Board (1973–1975), Commissioner for Economic Planning (1975–1976) and Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works of Kaduna State (1976–1977).\n\nKaita was appointed a Member of the Constituent Assembly of Nigeria (1977–1978) and became Special Assistant to President Shehu Shagari (1980–1982).\n\nIn 1979, he was narrowly defeated by Abdulkadir Balarabe Musa in the election for Governor of Kaduna State.\nKaita helped the NPN to impeach Governor Musa in June 1981.\nIn 1982, after the death of the Emir, Kaita contested the emirship of Katsina.Usman Nagogo.\nHe was elected Governor of Kaduna State in the 1983 election, holding office for a few months until the military coup in December of that year.\n\nIn 1995, after General Shehu Musa Yar'Adua was jailed by the Sani Abacha government, Kaita was appointed leader of Yar'Adua's Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM).\nKaita was a member of the Constitutional Conference (1994–1995). \nHe was a founding member of the People's Democratic Party PDP in 1998.\n\nThe administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo, which came to power in May 1999, appointed Kaita chairman of one of the parastatals in the Ministry of Transport.\n\nIn August 2001, he was engaged in a struggle for control of the PDM movement with the Minister of Works and Housing, Tony Anenih.\n\nIn May 2002, he was president of the Nigerian Polo Association.\n\nIn June 2003, he was chairman of the Maritime Authority, a member of the board of trustees of the PDP, and a director of the SGBN Bank.\n\nKaita left the PDP to join others in forming the Action Congress (AC) party in September 2006; Vice President Atiku Abubakar, representing the Action Congress, launched his unsuccessful bid for the presidency in 2007.\n\nIn the run-up to the elections, the 74-year-old Kaita was arrested by the State Security Services on charges that he had recruited and trained hooligans.\n\nIn March 2010, there were rumors that Kaita might be returning to the PDP following a meeting with the Katsina State Governor Ibrahim Shema and other PDP leaders. \nIn a newspaper interview in April 2010, Kaita said that as chairman of a conclave of Atiku Abubakar's associates, he expected Atiku to rejoin the PDP.\n\nOn 19 August 2010, Kaita was received back to the PDP by Governor Shema, in an event attended by 50,000 decampees from the Action Congress in Ingawa, Kusada and Kankia local governments. He died on 2 January 2018, aged 85.\n"}
{"id": "222426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222426", "title": "Legislative assembly", "text": "Legislative assembly\n\nLegislative assembly is the name given in some countries to either a legislature, or to one of its branches.\nThe name is used by a number of countries, including member-states of the Commonwealth of Nations and other countries. It is also used by their sub-national divisions, such as the Indian States, Australian States and Canadian provinces.\n\nThe modern-day legislative assembly in a Commonwealth country, either as a national or sub-national parliament, is in most cases an evolution of one of these colonial legislative chambers, whether the full legislature or a lower house. In a number of jurisdictions, the name House of Assembly is used instead. It is one of the main names used in everyday\n\nIn India, the lower or sole house of each constituent state's parliament is called the legislative assembly, or Vidhan Sabha. The same name is also used for the lower house of the legislatures for two of the union territories, Delhi and Puducherry. The upper house in the seven states with a bicameral legislature is called the legislative council, or Vidhan Parishad. Members of the former are called MLAs, and those of the latter MLCs.\n\nThe lower houses of the parliaments of the Australian states of New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia are called the \"legislative assembly\". In contrast, the state of Queensland has abolished the former upper house of its parliament, leaving the legislative assembly as the sole chamber. The sole house of parliament in the Australian Capital Territory is the legislative assembly.\n\nIn Canada, seven of the ten provinces and all three of the territories style their legislatures as \"legislative assembly\". All are unicameral.\n\nIn Malaysia, the unicameral parliaments of the 13 individual states are known as Dewan Undangan Negeri (\"state legislative assembly\").\n\nIn Quebec, the legislative assembly was renamed the National Assembly, as part of the abolition of the legislative council on December 31, 1968.\n\nIn Mauritius, the unicameral Parliament was known as the legislative assembly until 1992, when, following the establishment of a republic, it was renamed the National Assembly.\n\nLegislative Assembly are the national legislatures of the sovereign nations of Bolivia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Samoa, Thailand and Tonga, and the non-sovereign nations of Macao and Puerto Rico. The legislatures of the States of Brazil are called \"legislative assembly\". The legislatures of the two autonomous regions of Portugal, Azores and Madeira, are also called \"legislative assembly\", respectively the Legislative Assembly of the Azores and the Legislative Assembly of Madeira. When Kyrgyzstan experimented with bicameralism between 1991 and 2007, the Upper House established was styled the Legislative Assembly, with the Lower House being the Assembly of People's Representatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "54061052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54061052", "title": "List of American conservatives", "text": "List of American conservatives\n\nAmerican conservatism is a broad system of political beliefs in the United States that is characterized by respect for American traditions, republicanism, support for Judeo-Christian values, moral absolutism, free markets and free trade, anti-communism, individualism, advocacy of American exceptionalism, and a defense of Western culture from the perceived threats posed by socialism, authoritarianism, and moral relativism. The recent movement is based in the Republican Party, though some Democrats were also important figures early in the movement's history.\n\nThe following list is made up of prominent American conservative people from the public and private sectors. The list also includes political parties, organizations and media outlets which have made a notable impact on conservatism in the United States. Entries on the list must have achieved notability after 1932, the beginning of the Fifth Party System.\n\n"}
{"id": "22219814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22219814", "title": "List of European countries by minimum wage", "text": "List of European countries by minimum wage\n\nThe following list provides information relating to the minimum wages (gross) of countries in Europe.\n\nThe calculations are based on the assumption of a 40-hour working week and a 52-week year, with the exceptions of France (35 hours), San Marino (37.5 hours), Belgium (38 hours), United Kingdom (38.1 hours), Ireland (39 hours), Monaco (39 hours), and Germany (39.1 hours).\nMost of minimum wages are fixed at a monthly rate, but there are countries where minimum wage is fixed at an hourly rate or weekly rate.\n\nCountries marked on the map in dark blue have a minimum wage in the range from €1,000 and above, in light blue - from €500 to €1,000, in yellow - from €300 to €500, in red - below €300. Countries marked on the map in purple do not have a minimum wage.\n\nCountries marked on the map in dark blue have a minimum wage in the range from €1,400 and above, in light blue - from €700 to €1,400, in yellow - from €400 to €700, in red - below €400. Countries marked on the map in purple do not have a minimum wage.\n\nThe difference between the gross income and the net income ratio is given by the percentage of income taxes. For example, even if a Slovakian citizen has a gross minimum income higher than a Czech, in reality the first will receive less money than the second because of higher income taxes.\"\n\nCountries that have main territories in Asia with small or no territories in Europe\n\nThe following list includes states with limited recognition.\n\nIn some countries it was replaced with other systems that provide a minimum income. \n\nSee Guaranteed minimum income and Basic income.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22280428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22280428", "title": "List of communist ideologies", "text": "List of communist ideologies\n\nSelf-identified communists hold a variety of views, including Marxism, Dengism, Trotskyism, Stalinism, council communism, Luxemburgism, anarcho-communism, Christian communism, Islamic socialism and various currents of left communism. The offshoots of the Leninism (Marxism–Leninism) are the most well-known of these and have been a driving force in international relations during most of the 20th century.\n\nThis list includes ideologies which are or were\n\nBesides the principal communist ideologies (like Marxism or anarcho-communism), the list may contain also branches limited in their theoretical scope (e.g., Lysenkoism) or in their regional extent (e.g., Kádárism), provided they fulfill the above conditions.\n\nMarxism–Leninism is a synthesis of philosophical and economic theories of Karl Marx with the revolutionary political theories of Vladimir Lenin. Lenin brought Marxism into the 20th century, with his original theoretical contributions such as his analysis of imperialism, principles of party organization, and the implementation of socialism through revolution and reform thereafter. As the official ideology of the Soviet Union, Marxism–Leninism was adopted by communist parties worldwide with variation in local application. Parties with a Marxist–Leninist understanding of the historical development of socialism advocate for the nationalisation of natural resources and monopolist industries of capitalism and for their internal democratization as part of the transition to workers' control. The economy under such a government is primarily coordinated through a universal economic plan with varying degrees of market distribution. Since the fall of the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc countries, many communist parties of the world today continue to use Marxism–Leninism as their method of understanding the conditions of their respective countries.\n\nStalinism is a political term with a variety of uses, but most commonly it is used as a pejorative shorthand for Marxism–Leninism (see above) by a variety of competing political tendencies, such as capitalism and Trotskyism. Although Stalin himself repudiated any qualitatively original contribution to Marxism, the communist movement usually credits him with systematizing and expanding the ideas of Vladimir Lenin into the ideology of Marxism–Leninism as a distinct body of work. In this sense, Stalinism can be thought of as being roughly equivalent to Marxism–Leninism, although this is not universally agreed upon.\n\nAt other times, the term is used as a general umbrella term\"—\"again pejoratively\"—\"to describe a wide variety of political systems and governments, including the Soviet Union, the Warsaw Pact countries of Europe, Mongolia, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Ethiopia, Albania, and others. In this sense, it can be seen as being roughly equivalent to actually existing socialism, although sometimes it is used to describe totalitarian governments that are not socialist.\n\nAt any rate, some of the contributions to communist theory that Stalin is particularly known for are:\n\n\nTrotsky and his supporters organized into the Left Opposition and their platform became known as Trotskyism. Joseph Stalin eventually succeeded in gaining control of the Soviet regime and Trotskyist attempts to remove Stalin from power resulted in Trotsky's exile from the Soviet Union in 1929. During Trotsky's exile, world communism fractured into two distinct branches: Stalinism and Trotskyism. Trotsky later founded the Fourth International, a Trotskyist rival to the Comintern, in 1938.\n\nTrotskyist ideas have continually found a modest echo among political movements in some countries in Latin America and Asia, especially in Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia and Sri Lanka. Many Trotskyist organizations are also active in more stable, developed countries in North America and Western Europe. Trotsky's politics differed sharply from those of Stalin and Mao, most importantly in declaring the need for an international proletarian revolution (rather than socialism in one country) and unwavering support for a true dictatorship of the proletariat based on democratic principles.\n\nHowever, as a whole Trotsky's theories and attitudes were never accepted in worldwide mainstream communist circles after Trotsky's expulsion, either within or outside of the Soviet bloc. This remained the case even after the Secret Speech and subsequent events critics claim exposed the fallibility of Stalin.\n\nSome criticize Trotskyism as incapable of using concrete analysis on its theories, rather resorting to phrases and abstract notions.\n\nMaoism is the Marxist–Leninist trend of communism associated with Mao Zedong and was mostly practiced within the People's Republic of China. Khrushchev's reforms heightened ideological differences between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union, which became increasingly apparent in the 1960s. As the Sino-Soviet split in the international communist movement turned toward open hostility, China portrayed itself as a leader of the underdeveloped world against the two superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nParties and groups that supported the Communist Party of China (CPC) in their criticism against the new Soviet leadership proclaimed themselves as \"anti-revisionist\" and denounced the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) and the parties aligned with it as revisionist \"capitalist-roaders\". The Sino-Soviet Split resulted in divisions amongst communist parties around the world. Notably, the Party of Labour of Albania sided with the People's Republic of China. Effectively, the CPC under Mao's leadership became the rallying forces of a parallel international Communist tendency. The ideology of CPC, Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought (generally referred to as Maoism), was adopted by many of these groups.\n\nAfter Mao's death and his replacement by Deng Xiaoping, the international Maoist movement diverged. One sector accepted the new leadership in China; whereas a second renounced the new leadership and reaffirmed their commitment to Mao's legacy; and a third renounced Maoism altogether and aligned with Albania.\n\nA reformist communism and a branch of Maoism is often criticised by traditional Maoists. Heavily influenced by Lenin and Nikolai Bukharin's New Economical Policy, Dengists believes that the current productivity of the society is not strong enough to reform the society into pure public ownership stage of socialism (see primary stage of socialism), i.e. China is not ready for it both technologically and culturally. In order to encourage and promote the advancement of the productivity by creating competition and innovation, Dengist thought promotes the idea that the PRC needs to introduce a certain market element in a Socialist country. Dengists still believe that the PRC needs public ownership of land and raw materials, so a democratically elected government can make decisions on how to use them for the benefit of the country as a whole instead of the land owners, but at the same time private ownership is allowed and encouraged in industries of finished goods and services. According to the Dengist theory, private owners in those industries are not bourgeois. Because in accordance with Marxist theory, bourgeois owns land and raw materials. Therefore, in a Dengist country private company owners are called \"minyinqiyejia\" (; \"civil run enterprises\"). The People's Republic of China was the first country which adopted this belief. It boosted its economy and achieved the \"China Miracle\". It has increased the Chinese GDP growth rate to over 8% per year for 30 years and China now has the second highest GDP in the world. Due to the influence of Dengism, Vietnam and Laos have also adopted this belief, which allowed Laos to increase its real GDP growth rate to 8.3%. Cuba is also starting to embrace this idea.\n\nDengists also take a very strong position against any form of personality cults which appeared in the Soviet Union during Stalin's rule and the current North Korea.\n\nMarxism–Leninism–Maoism–Prachanda Path ( ) refers to the ideological line of the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist). It is considered to be a further development of Marxism–Leninism and Maoism. It is named after the leader of the CPN(M), Pushpa Kamal Dahal, commonly known as \"Prachanda\". Prachanda Path was proclaimed in 2001 and its formulation was partially inspired by the Communist Party of Peru, which refers to its ideological line as Marxism–Leninism-Maoism-Gonzalo Thought. Prachanda Path does not make an ideological break with Marxism, Leninism or Maoism, but rather is an extension of these ideologies based on the political situation of Nepal. The doctrine came into existence after it was realized that the ideology of Marxism, Leninism and Maoism could not be practiced as done in the past, thus Prachanda Path based on the circumstances of Nepalese politics was adopted by the party.\n\nAnother variant of anti-revisionist Marxism–Leninism appeared after the ideological row between the Communist Party of China and the Party of Labour of Albania in 1978. The Albanians rallied a new separate international tendency. This tendency would demarcate itself by a strict defense of the legacy of Joseph Stalin and fierce criticism of virtually all other Communist groupings as revisionist. Critical of the United States, Soviet Union and China, Enver Hoxha declared the latter two to be social-imperialist and condemned the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia by withdrawing from the Warsaw Pact in response. Hoxha declared Albania to be the world's only state legitimately adhering to Marxism–Leninism after 1978. The Albanians were able to win over a large share of the Maoists, mainly in Latin America such as the Popular Liberation Army and Marxist–Leninist Communist Party of Ecuador, but also had a significant international following in general. This tendency has occasionally been labeled as Hoxhaism after him.\n\nAfter the fall of the communist government in Albania, the pro-Albanian parties are grouped around an international conference and the publication Unity and Struggle.\n\nElements of Titoism are characterized by policies and practices based on the principle that in each country, the means of attaining ultimate communist goals must be dictated by the conditions of that particular country, rather than by a pattern set in another country. During Josip Broz Tito’s era, this specifically meant that the communist goal should be pursued independently of (and often in opposition to) the policies of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe term was originally meant as a pejorative and was labeled by Moscow as a heresy during the period of tensions between the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia known as the Informbiro period from 1948 to 1955.\n\nUnlike the rest of East Europe, which fell under Joseph Stalin's influence post-World War II, Yugoslavia, due to the strong leadership of Marshal Tito and the fact that the Yugoslav Partisans liberated Yugoslavia with only limited help from the Red Army, remained independent from Moscow. It became the only country in the Balkans to resist pressure from Moscow to join the Warsaw Pact and remained \"socialist, but independent\" right up until the collapse of Soviet socialism in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Throughout his time in office, Tito prided himself on Yugoslavia's independence from Russia, with Yugoslavia never accepting full membership of the Comecon and Tito's open rejection of many aspects of Stalinism as the most obvious manifestations of this.\n\nSince the early 1970s, the term Eurocommunism was used to refer to the ideology of moderate, reformist communist parties in western Europe. These parties did not support the Soviet Union and denounced its policies. Such parties were politically active and electorally significant in Italy (PCI), France (PCF) and Spain (PCE).\n\nLuxemburgism is a specific revolutionary theory within Marxism and communism, based on the writings of Rosa Luxemburg.\n\nCouncil communism is a far-left movement originating from Germany and the Netherlands in the 1920s. The Communist Workers Party of Germany (KAPD) was the primary organization that espoused council communism. Council communism continues today as a theoretical and activist position within both Marxism and libertarian socialism.\n\nThe central argument of council communism, in contrast to social democracy and Leninist communism, is that democratic workers councils arising in factories and municipalities are the natural form of working class organisation and governmental power. This view is opposed to both the reformist and the Leninist ideologies, with their stress on respectively parliaments and institutional government (i.e., by applying social reforms) on the one hand and vanguard parties and participative democratic centralism on the other.\n\nThe core principle of council communism is that the government and the economy should be managed by workers' councils composed of delegates elected at workplaces and recallable at any moment. As such, council communists oppose totalitarian socialism. They also oppose the idea of a \"revolutionary party\", since council communists believe that a party-led revolution will necessarily produce a party dictatorship. Council communists support a worker's democracy, which they want to produce through a federation of workers' councils. Council communism (and other types of \"anti-authoritarian and anti-Leninist–Marxism\" such as autonomism) are often viewed as being similar to anarchism because they criticize Leninist ideologies for being authoritarian and reject the idea of a vanguard party.\n\nDe Leonism is a form of syndicalist Marxism developed by the American activist Daniel De Leon. De Leon was an early leader of the first United States socialist political party, the Socialist Labor Party of America. De Leon combined the rising theories of syndicalism in his time with orthodox Marxism.\n\nAccording to the political theorist Alan Johnson there has been a revival of serious interest in communism in the 21st century led by Slavoj Zizek and Alain Badiou. Other leading theorists are Michael Hardt, Toni Negri, Gianni Vattimo, Alessandro Russo and Judith Balso, as well as Alberto Toscano, translator of Alain Badiou, Terry Eagleton and Bruno Bosteels. Many of these advocates contributed to the three-day conference, “The Idea of Communism”, in London in 2009 that drew a substantial paying audience. Theoretical publications, some published by Verso Books, include \"The Idea of Communism\", edited by Costas Douzinas and Zizek; Badiou’s \"The Communist Hypothesis\"; and Bosteels’s \"The Actuality of Communism\". The defining common ground is the contention that 'the crises of contemporary liberal capitalist societies—ecological degradation, financial turmoil, the loss of trust in the political class, exploding inequality—are systemic; interlinked, not amenable to legislative reform, and requiring “revolutionary” solutions\".\n\nThe most widely held forms of communist theory are derived from Marxism, but non-Marxist versions of communism (such as religious communism and anarcho-communism) also exist and are growing in importance since the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nSome of Marx's contemporaries espoused similar ideas, but differed in their views of how to reach to a classless society. Following the split between those associated with Marx and Mikhail Bakunin at the First International, the anarchists formed the International Workers Association. Anarchists argued that capitalism and the state were inseparable and that one could not be abolished without the other. Anarcho-communists such as Peter Kropotkin theorized an immediate transition to one society with no classes. Anarcho-syndicalism became one of the dominant forms of anarchist organization, arguing that labor unions, as opposed to communist parties, are the organizations that can change society. Consequently, many anarchists have been in opposition to Marxist communism to this day.\n\nChristian communism is a form of religious communism centered on Christianity. It is a theological and political theory based upon the view that the teachings of Jesus Christ urge Christians to support communism as the ideal social system. Christian communists trace the origins of their practice to teachings in the New Testament, such as this one from Acts of the Apostles at chapter 2 and verses 42, 44 and 45:\n42. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and in fellowship [...] 44. And all that believed were together, and had all things in common; 45. And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need. (King James Version)\n\nChristian communism can be seen as a radical form of Christian socialism and because many Christian communists have formed independent stateless communes in the past, there is also a link between Christian communism and Christian anarchism. Christian communists may or may not agree with various parts of Marxism.\n\nChristian communists also share some of the political goals of Marxists, for example replacing capitalism with socialism, which should in turn be followed by communism at a later point in the future. However, Christian communists sometimes disagree with Marxists (and particularly with Leninists) on the way a socialist or communist society should be organized.\n\n"}
{"id": "50541350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50541350", "title": "Megan Dunn (NUS)", "text": "Megan Dunn (NUS)\n\nMegan Dunn (born 1990/91) is a British student politician, and the former president of the UK's National Union of Students.\n\nDunn campaigned for the United Kingdom to remain in the European Union in the 2016 referendum, having been appointed to the board of the Britain Stronger in Europe campaign.\n"}
{"id": "21014899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014899", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Finance (Cambodia)", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Finance (Cambodia)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) (, ) accounts for the administration of financial and economic policy and affair in the Kingdom of Cambodia. In accordance to the official website, the ministry was commissioned by the Royal Government of Cambodia to perform missions of guidances and administrations in economic and financial affairs. The current Minister responsible for the Ministry of Economic and Finance is Aun Porn Moniroth, as of 2013. The main ministerial office is located in Phnom Penh, while the provincial branches are located across the main capitals of each province.\n\nThe managerial structure is divided into five ranks: Minister, Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State, Secretary General, and Deputy Secretary General. They are responsible for the administration in the distribution and allocation of budget, creation of policy, implementing and enhance existing policies in the extension of designated departments as well as the extended departments in provincial branches. The level of authority in budget and policy approval and implementation are based on the primary and secondary ranks of the administrative figures.\n\nThe departments of the Ministry include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8043277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043277", "title": "Most Holy Synod", "text": "Most Holy Synod\n\nThe Most Holy Governing Synod () was the highest governing body of the Russian Orthodox Church between 1721 and 1918 (when the Church re-instated the Patriarchate). The jurisdiction of the Most Holy Synod extended over every kind of ecclesiastical question and over some partly secular matters.\n\nPeter I of Russia established the Synod on January 25, 1721 in the course of his church reform. Its establishment was followed by the abolition of the Patriarchate. The Synod was composed partly of ecclesiastical persons, partly of laymen appointed by the Tsar. Members included the Metropolitans of Saint Petersburg, Moscow and Kiev, and the Exarch of Georgia. Originally, the Synod had ten ecclesiastical members, but the number later changed to twelve.\n\nA series of reforms by Peter the Great inspired the creation of the Most Holy Synod. The new Imperial Age saw radical change and developments in economic, social and cultural aspects of Russian life. Peter traveled twice to Europe and made reforms that reflected his desire to westernize Russia and worked to Russify the European models to better fit his nation. Beyond forming the Synod in an effort to enfeeble the power and authority of the Russian Orthodox Church, he also challenged traditional Russian values, which were rooted in religion and a social structure defined by boyars and aristocracy, merchants, clerics, peasants and serfs. He did so by implementing enlightenment ideals—except for any that would have resulted in democratizing the Russian government, tolerating political or religious dissent, or encouraging the free growth of thought or ideas; establishing the Julian calendar; reorganizing the Russian army in the European style; establishing a meritocracy (as opposed to the previous system of delineating positions by aristocratic lineage); outlawing or taxing beards (which were common among the Old Believers); etc. Peter’s desire for the consolidation and standardization of authority led to the creation of the Synod. With one leader (the patriarch) the church proved too great of a threat to Peter’s rule, and he was unwilling to share power.\n\nWhen the conservative Patriarch Adrian died in 1700, Peter left the position unfilled and instead Metropolitan Stephen Iavorsky, a supporter of reform, administered the church for roughly twenty years. In 1721 the church officially came under the cloak of the Russian national government with the Spiritual Order, which was ostensibly written primarily by Archbishop Theophanes Prokopovich.\n\nAfter Patriarch Adrian died, Peter, through the inspiration and encouragement of his official A.A. Kurbatov, decided to abolish the patriarchal Razryadnyi Prikaz (rank prikaz), which was in charge of civil and military administration, and redirected all matters to the appropriate prikaz, an administrative or judicial office. This event and others demonstrated that little by little, Peter’s administration rendered each church division powerless and their duties transferred to paralleled governmental departments. Some scholars argue, though, that Peter did not intend to abolish the Patriarchy when he began altering the administrative structure of the church. Delaying choosing a new patriarch proved economically advantageous; by restricting ecclesiastic land ownership and other financial luxuries of the clergy, the state saved money. This gave Peter further incentive to abolish the Patriarchy.\n\nIn 1711, reform allotted the Senate jurisdiction over all peoples, including ecclesiastical subjects. This meant that the state now had authority over issues that had been previously reserved for church authorities. With this power came the ability, in certain situations, for the state to determine clerics for administration in religious positions.\n\nIn 1716 Peter formulated an oath for the bishops-elect of Vologda and Astrakhan and Yavorskii. The oath, divided into seven parts, served as a supplement to the present oath. The first two parts regard the appropriate method for dealing with heretics and oppositionists. The third section designates that monks of their dioceses were not to travel outside diocese limits, unless for an urgent matter, and only then with written permission. The oath prohibited the building of any unnecessary churches (point 4) and the hiring on of any unessential clerics (point 5). The oath required clergy to visit their diocese at least once a year in order to dispel superstition or apostates and to congregate believers (point 6). Finally, the oath compelled bishops to swear that they would not become involved in secular affairs or legal proceedings.\n\nPeter was determined to westernize Russia during his reign, and the church was an integral part of his campaign. As mentioned earlier, the new structure of the church in many ways resembled that of European countries, such as Sweden and Germany. In a broader sense, though, Peter was attempting to modernize Russia through secularization, which was a vital step in the course of European political modernization during this time. Secularization, in this instance, meant the institutionalization and increased breadth of the state’s wealth and authority coupled with the dwindling power of the church. The church also became politically subject to the government, instead of the traditional relationship between church and state, in which rulers, such as Ivan IV, felt in some ways subject to the approval of the Orthodox Church in order to remain a legitimate sovereign.\n\nPeter used the Synod to find and punish dissident Russians. An addition in 1722 to the Ecclesiastic Regulation, which replaced the patriarch as the church head, required clerics to report any \"seditious\" confessions.\n\nBefore the creation of the Most Holy Synod, Peter concerned himself with improvements in the church. He was particularly interested in improving the education of the clerics, since many were illiterate and unable to administer sacraments.\n\nAt the time Peter established the Synod, he also issued the Spiritual Order, mentioned above. One key aspect of this edict was that it disregarded or denied the divinity of the church and saw it primarily as a state institution.\n\nThe Holy Synod replaced the job of the patriarch with ten, and later twelve, clerics. The Chief Procurator (Ober-Prokuror), the first of which was Colonel I. V. Boltin, oversaw the Synod in order to verify the legality of their actions and the prompt and orderly fulfillment of their responsibilities. Peter required priests to report traitorous confessions, but he did not push his ability to control to the limit, for example abstaining from secularizing church lands. Under the Synod, the church became more tolerant of various denominations, even extending this policy to the Old Believers for a period of time. Intermarriage between Orthodox and Western Christians was permitted starting in the year of the Synod’s formation.\n\nThe Synod was intended, presumably, to mirror the church-state relationship in the Lutheran countries of northern Europe. Although the emperor did not wield authority in matters of faith, the government effectively controlled organization, finances and policies of the church. With the mindset that the government should play an active role in the lives of citizens, Peter expected the church to do the same. He directed the church to form public welfare projects for the benefit of the common people. These included almshouses and Christian schools.\n\nIn November 1718, Peter formed an Ecclesiastical College in St. Petersburg, as it was the center of civil government. Soon, the “Ecclesiastical College” would have a name change to “Most Holy All-Ruling Synod”.\n\nThe Synod functioned under the Ecclesiastical Regulation statute with the goal of administrating and reforming the church. The statute stated that the eleven members of the college were to be of varying classes and ranks. One president, two vice-presidents, four councilors and four assessors comprised the council and each member would get one vote when determining a dispute.\n\nFormed as a reaction to Peter’s views of Russia as compared to Western Europe, the Synod was a concentration of clerics who had received extensive formal higher education. It worked to gain as much of the disputed church property as possible, and after assuming control of the patriarchal domain the Synod was accountable for the lives of 6000 people. It was to be revered absolutely in all things and possessed “patriarchal power, honour, and authority”.\n\nThe primary duties of the Synod were to supervise the direction of the Orthodox faith, instruct people on religious matters, celebrate feasts and determine questions of order and ritual. As mentioned before, the Synod also suppressed heretics, judged miracles and relics and prevented Russian citizens from practicing witchcraft. The Synod was in control of church property and was thus responsible for the creation of monasteries and churches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27212486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27212486", "title": "Natives Resettlement Act, 1954", "text": "Natives Resettlement Act, 1954\n\nThe Natives Resettlement Act, Act No 19 of 1954, formed part of the apartheid system of racial segregation in South Africa. It permitted the removal of blacks from any area within and next to the magisterial district of Johannesburg by the South African government. This act was designed to remove of blacks from Sophiatown to Meadowlands.\n"}
{"id": "454151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454151", "title": "Negative liberty", "text": "Negative liberty\n\nNegative liberty is freedom from interference by other people. Negative liberty is primarily concerned with freedom from external restraint and contrasts with positive liberty (the possession of the power and resources to fulfil one's own potential). The distinction was introduced by Isaiah Berlin in his 1958 lecture \"Two Concepts of Liberty\".\n\n\"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" describes negative liberty:\n\"The negative concept of freedom ... is most commonly assumed in liberal defences of the constitutional liberties typical of liberal-democratic societies, such as freedom of movement, freedom of religion, and freedom of speech, and in arguments against paternalist or moralist state intervention. It is also often invoked in defences of the right to private property, although some have contested the claim that private property necessarily enhances negative liberty.\"\n\nAccording to Thomas Hobbes, \"a free man is he that in those things which by his strength and will he is able to do is not hindered to do what he hath the will to do\" (\"Leviathan\", Part 2, Ch. XXI; thus alluding to liberty in its negative sense).\n\nClaude Adrien Helvétius expressed the following point clearly: \"The free man is the man who is not in irons, nor imprisoned in a gaol, nor terrorized like a slave by the fear of punishment ... it is not lack of freedom, not to fly like an eagle or swim like a whale.\" Moreover, John Jay, in \"The Federalist\" paper No. 2, stated that: \"Nothing is more certain than the indispensable necessity of Government, and it is equally undeniable, that whenever and however it is instituted, the people must cede to it some of their natural rights, in order to vest it with requisite powers.\" Jay's meaning would be better expressed by substituting \"negative liberty\" in place of \"natural rights\", for the argument here is that the power or authority of a legitimate government derives in part from our accepting restrictions on negative liberty.\n\nAn idea that anticipates the distinction between negative and positive liberty was G. F. W. Hegel's \"sphere of abstract right\" (furthered in his \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\"), which constitutes what now is called negative freedom and his subsequent distinction between \"abstract\" and \"positive liberty.\" \n\nIn the Anglophone analytic tradition the distinction between negative and positive liberty was introduced by Isaiah Berlin in his 1958 lecture \"Two Concepts of Liberty\". According to Berlin, the distinction is deeply embedded in the political tradition. In Berlin's words, \"liberty in the negative sense involves an answer to the question: 'What is the area within which the subject—a person or group of persons—is or should be left to do or be what he is able to do or be, without interference by other persons'.\" Restrictions on negative liberty are imposed by a person, not by natural causes or incapacity.\n\nFrankfurt School psychoanalyst and humanistic philosopher Erich Fromm drew a similar distinction between negative and positive freedom in his 1941 work, \"The Fear of Freedom\", that predates Berlin's essay by more than a decade. Fromm sees the distinction between the two types of freedom emerging alongside humanity's evolution away from the instinctual activity that characterizes lower animal forms. This aspect of freedom, he argues, \"is here used not in its positive sense of 'freedom to' but in its negative sense of 'freedom from', namely freedom from instinctual determination of his actions.\" For Fromm, then, negative freedom marks the beginning of humanity as a species conscious of its own existence free from base instinct.\n\nThe distinction between positive and negative liberty is considered specious by some socialist and Marxist political philosophers, who argue that positive and negative liberty are indistinguishable in practice, or that one cannot exist without the other. Although he is not a socialist nor a Marxist, Berlin argues: \"It follows that a frontier must be drawn between the area of private life and that of public authority. Where it is to be drawn is a matter of argument, indeed of haggling. Men are largely interdependent, and no man's activity is so completely private as never to obstruct the lives of others in any way. 'Freedom for the pike is death for the minnows'; the liberty of some must depend on the restraint of others.\"\n\nLibertarian thinker Tibor Machan defends negative liberty as \"required for moral choice and, thus, for human flourishing,\" claiming that it \"is secured when the rights of individual members of a human community to life, to voluntary action (or to liberty of conduct), and to property are universally respected, observed, and defended.\"\n\nOne might ask, \"How is men's desire for liberty to be reconciled with the assumed need for authority?\" Its answer by various thinkers provides a fault line for understanding their view on liberty but also a cluster of intersecting concepts such as authority, equality, and justice.\n\nHobbes and Locke give two influential and representative solutions to this question. As a starting point, both agree that a line must be drawn and a space sharply delineated where each individual can act unhindered according to their tastes, desires, and inclinations. This zone defines the sacrosanct space of personal liberty. But, they believe no society is possible without some authority, where the intended purpose of authority is to prevent collisions among the different ends and, thereby, to demarcate the boundaries where each person's zone of liberty begins and ends. Where Hobbes and Locke differ is the extent of the zone. Hobbes, who took a rather negative view of human nature, argued that a strong authority was needed to curb men's intrinsically wild, savage, and corrupt impulses. Only a powerful authority can keep at bay the permanent and always looming threat of anarchy. Locke believed, on the other hand, that men on the whole are more good than wicked and, accordingly, the area for individual liberty can be left rather at large.\n\nLocke is a slightly more ambiguous case than Hobbes because although his conception of liberty was largely negative (in terms of non-interference), he differed in that he courted the republican tradition of liberty by rejecting the notion that an individual could be free if he was under the arbitrary power of another:\n\n\"This \"freedom\" from absolute, arbitrary power, is so necessary to, and closely joined with a man's preservation, that he cannot part with it, but by what forfeits his preservation and life together: for a man, not having the power of his own life, cannot, by compact, or his own consent, enslave himself to any one, nor put himself under the absolute, arbitrary power of another, to take away his life, when he pleases. No body can give more power than he has himself; and he that cannot take away his own life, cannot give another power over it. Indeed, having by his fault forfeited his own life, by some act that deserves death; he, to whom he has forfeited it, may (when he has him in his power) delay to take it, and make use of him to his own service, and he does him no injury by it: for, whenever he finds the hardship of his slavery outweigh the value of his life, it is in his power, by resisting the will of his master, to draw on himself the death he desires.\"\n\nThis section outlines specific examples of governmental types which follow the concept of negative liberty.\n\nThomas Hobbes' \"Leviathan\" outlines a commonwealth based upon a monarchy to whom citizens have ceded their rights. The basic reasoning for Hobbes' assertion that this system was most ideal relates more to Hobbes' value of order and simplicity in government. The monarchy provides for its subjects, and its subjects go about their day-to-day lives without interaction with the government:\nThe commonwealth is instituted when all agree in the following manner: \"I authorise and give up my right of governing myself to this man, or to this assembly of men, on this condition; that thou give up, thy right to him, and authorise all his actions in like manner.\"\n\nThe sovereign has twelve principal rights:\n\n\nHobbes explicitly rejects the idea of \"Separation of Powers\", in particular the form that would later become the separation of powers under the United States Constitution. Part 6 is a perhaps under-emphasised feature of Hobbes's argument: his is explicitly in favour of censorship of the press and restrictions on the rights of free speech, should they be considered desirable by the sovereign in order to promote order.\nUpon closer inspection of Hobbes' \"Leviathan\", it becomes clear that Hobbes believed individual people in society must give up liberty to a sovereign. Whether that sovereign is an absolute monarch or other form was left open to debate, however Hobbes himself viewed the absolute monarch as the best of all options. Hobbes himself said,\n\nFor as amongst masterless men, there is perpetual war, of every man against his neighbour; no inheritance, to transmit to the son, nor to expect from the father; no propriety of goods, or lands; no security; but a full and absolute liberty in every particular man: so in states, and commonwealths not dependent on one another, every commonwealth, not every man, has an absolute liberty, to do what it shall judge, that is to say, what that man, or assembly that representeth it, shall judge most conducing to their benefit.\n\nFrom this quote it is clear that Hobbes contended that people in a state of nature ceded their individual rights to create sovereignty, retained by the state, in return for their protection and a more functional society. In essence, a social contract between the sovereign and citizens evolves out of pragmatic self-interest. Hobbes named the state \"Leviathan\", thus pointing to the artifice involved in the social contract. In this vein, Hobbes' concept of negative liberty was built upon the notion that the state would not act upon its subjects because its subjects had willingly relinquished their liberties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2626920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2626920", "title": "New People", "text": "New People\n\nNew People were civilian Cambodians who were controlled and exploited by the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia (officially then known as Democratic Kampuchea) from 1975 to 1979. Generally, anyone who was from an urban area was made a \"New Person\" and people from rural areas were made Old People.\n\nNew People were not allowed any property and they were forced to work at least 10 hours a day, and often more. Their food rations were so small they led to starvation. Disease was rampant and in 1976 it was estimated that 80% of the Cambodian population had malaria.\n\nOne of the Khmer Rouge mottos, in reference to the New People, was \"To keep you is no benefit. To destroy you is no loss.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57236865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57236865", "title": "Nisekoi (film)", "text": "Nisekoi (film)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "108723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=108723", "title": "Office québécois de la langue française", "text": "Office québécois de la langue française\n\nThe Office québécois de la langue française (OQLF) (), is a public organization established on March 24, 1961 by the Liberal government of Jean Lesage. Attached to the Ministère de la Culture et des Communications du Québec, its initial mission, defined in its report of April 1, 1964 was \"to align on international French, promote good Canadianisms and fight Anglicisms ... work on the normalization of the language in Québec and support State intervention to carry out a global language policy that would consider notably the importance of socio-economic motivations in making French the priority language in Québec\".\n\nIts mandate was enlarged by the 1977 Charter of the French Language, which also established two other organizations: the \"Commission de toponymie\" (Commission of Toponymy) and the \"Conseil supérieur de la langue française\" (Superior Council of the French Language).\n\nThe creation of a \"Board of the French language\" (\"Régie de la langue française\") was one of the recommendations of the Tremblay Royal Commission of Inquiry on Constitutional Problems which published its five-volume report in 1956. Such an institution was part of the list of 46 vows formulated by the Second Congress on the French Language in Canada held in Quebec City in 1937.\n\nIn 1961, the \"Act to establish the Department of Cultural Affairs\" was passed providing for the creation of the \"Office of the French Language\" (OLF). The organization had as its mission the assurance of the correct usage French and enrichment of the spoken and written language. In 1969, the \"Act to promote the French language\" was passed. This law expanded the mandate of the office and introduced the notion of the right to work in French.\n\nIn 1974, the \"Official Language Act\" was passed aiming to strengthen the status and use of French in Quebec and gives the office a decisive role in the implementation of its provisions. In 1977, the Charter of the French Language was passed. The first mandatory language law, it incorporates several elements of the Official Language Act, which it broadens, and substantially enhances the status of the French language in Quebec. For its implementation, the Charter establishes, in addition to the \"Office de la langue française\", the \"Commission de toponymie\", the \"Commission de surveillance et des enquêtes\" and the \"Conseil de la langue française\".\n\nThe office was renamed as the \"Office québécois de la langue française\" (OQLF) pursuant to the adoption of Bill 104 by the National Assembly of Quebec on June 12, 2003, which also merged the OLF with the \"Commission de protection de la langue française\" (Commission of protection of the French language) and part of the \"Conseil supérieur de la langue française\". Two new mandates, the handling of complaints and the monitoring of the linguistic situation, were then entrusted to the OQLF. The organization has also instituted two committees each chaired by a member of the Board: the Linguistic Officialization Committee and the Language Status Monitoring Committee.\n\nSections 159 to 164 of the Québec Charter of the French Language defines the mission and powers of the commission.:\n\nIn 2004, the organization had a yearly budget of $17.8 million. In 2005-2006, the budget rose to $18.5 million, in 2007-2008 to $19.0 million and to $24.124 million in 2016-2017 .\n\nIn March 2013, the OQLF's seven members, appointed by the government for a maximum of five years, were:\n\n\nFollowing its mandates, the OQLF offers the following services to the population of Quebec:\n\n\nMany distinctions are given by the OQLF to reward persons and organizations contributing to keeping French alive. They are given as part of the \"Grand gala des Mérites du français\" which occurs each year, usually in March during the FrancoFête.\n\nThe OQLF rewards outstanding francization efforts by persons and organizations. For over 20 years, it has been awarding the \"Mérites du français au travail et dans le commerce\" (French Merits at work and in commerce).\n\nSince 1998, it awards the \"Mérites du français dans les technologies de l’information\" (French Merits in information technologies).\n\nSince 1999, in collaboration with the Union des artistes (UDA), the Union des écrivaines et des écrivains québécois (UNEQ) and the Société des auteurs de radio, télévision et cinéma (SARTEC), the OQLF awards the \"Mérites du français dans la culture\" (French Merits in culture).\n\nSince 1999, supplanting the former \"Mérite de la langue française\" (French language Merit), it awards the Prix Camille-Laurin to underline a person's effort in promoting the usefulness of quality of French in his/her social milieu.\n\nSince 2005, in collaboration with the and the Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois, it awards the \"\" to a French writer for his or her first work.\n\nIn collaboration with Québec Ministry of Immigration, it awards the \"Mérites en francisation des nouveaux arrivants\" (Merits in Francization of new immigrants). One is for a \"non-francophone immigrant person\", another for a \"person working in the field on francization of immigrants\", a \"Community of institutional partner of francization\", and a \"business\".\n\nThe president of the OQLF presides the Jury of the \"Dictée des Amériques\" (Dictée of the Americas), an international competition of French spelling created by Télé-Québec in 1994.\n\nQuebec citizens who believe their right as consumers \"to be informed and served in French\" is not being respected can file a complaint to the OQLF which is responsible for processing these complaints. As per Section 168 of the Charter, the complaint must be written and contain the identity of the complainant. The Office does however ensure privacy of information as per the \"Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection of personal information\". The OQLF does not have the power to send an agent unless it has received a complaint or a vote by the members of the OQLF.\n\nThe statistics compiled by the OQLF for 2005–2006 reveal that some 1306 complainants filed 3652 complaints. 1078 (29.5%) complaints were from the region of Montreal, 883 (24.2%) from the region of Outaouais, 386 (10.6%) from Montérégie. Section 51, the language of products (labelling, packaging, instructions manuals, directions, warranty certificates) (article 51) amounted to 43.0% of the total. 13.8% were for breaches of Section 52, language of catalogues, pamphlets, business directories, and 9.6% were for breaches of Sections 2 and 5, the language of service.\n\nBetween April 1, 2005 and March 31, 2006, the OQLF closed 2899 complaints. There were 797 resolved cases, 523 unfounded complaints, 430 where the product was ultimately retracted from the market, 199 complaints found to be out of order, 183 cases of translated products. For the year 2006, there were 127 infractions ranging from $250 to $5000.\n\nThe OQLF was created to enforce the everyday use of the French language in Quebec. The OQLF promoted the Quebec Charter of the French Language, and, prior to 1988, was responsible for enforcing a regulation whereby French was the only language authorized on outdoor commercial signage. After multiple successful legal challenges, the role of the OQLF has since changed to ensuring French is the \"predominant\" language, meaning at least twice the size of any and all other languages.\n\nThe OQLF has been referred to in English as 'tongue troopers'. The term \"language police\" was possibly first used by the American television show \"60 Minutes\", which ran an investigative report on Quebec language laws. Legally, the organization has no police powers, instead relying on the threat of fines or the withholding of the company's \"francisation certificate\" as enforcement techniques.\n\nAccording to the statistics of the OQLF, 95% of all complaints by citizens which are judged to be valid are resolved without resorting to legal sanction. In an average year, the OQLF receives between 3000 and 4000 complaints from citizens. Forty to fifty percent of these complaints have to do with commercial products for which there is no available French manual or packaging, 25% have to do with signage in stores, 10% with websites and 5% with the language of service.\nThe majority of criticism directed at the OQLF is due to a perceived overzealous nature in the application of its mandate. Some recent examples include:\n\nOne case that gained international attention in 2013 was dubbed \"Pastagate\", in which the OQLF cited an Italian restaurant for using the word \"Pasta\" on its menu instead of the French word \"pâtes\". After receiving negative coverage throughout the world including the US and Europe, the OQLF eventually backed down, admitting to being \"overzealous\" and stating they will perform a review of the way these types of complaints are handled.\n\nOriginally, the Charter of the French Language (Bill 101) required that all commercial signage be in French and no other language. In 1988 \"Ford v. Quebec\" the Supreme Court of Canada ruled this was against the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. After massive protests in support of the legislation, the Bourassa Government invoked section Thirty-three of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (the notwithstanding clause), allowing the language laws to override the rights and freedoms charter for a period of five years, after which they would be reviewed.\n\nIn 1993, the United Nations Human Rights Committee concluded in \"Ballantyne, Davidson, McIntyre v. Canada\" that it was outside of the Quebec government's jurisdiction to limit freedom of expression in a language of the person's choice. (See Legal dispute over Quebec's language policy.) Also in 1993, but not due to the UNHR ruling, Quebec reviewed the law and modified its language regulations to require that French be \"markedly predominant\" on exterior business signs, as suggested by the Supreme Court of Canada ruling in the case of \"Ford v. Quebec\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51836835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51836835", "title": "Opposition (Montenegro)", "text": "Opposition (Montenegro)\n\nIn Montenegro, the Opposition () is all of the political parties represented in Parliament that are not a part of the Government supported by the parliamentary majority.\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition () is the unofficial title held by the leader of the largest party of the opposition. \n\nIn the 10th assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (2016–present), the parties in parliament that include the opposition are:\n\nAll 39 opposition MPs (out of 81 in total) are boycotting the Parliament since the constitution of its current convocation, due to claims of electoral fraud at the 2016 parliamentary elections. The largest opposition subject, Democratic Front (DF), decides to end the boycott and return to parliament in December 2017, as did newly formed, United Montenegro (UCG). The Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the Demos both decides to end the boycott and return to parliament, after poor results in May 2018 local elections, as did Socialist People's Party (SNP). Leaving Democratic Montenegro (DCG) and United Reform Action (URA), who remaining in a boycott with the same demands.\n\nIn the 9th assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (2012–2016), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Miodrag Lekić, leader of the Democratic Front (DF). After Lekić's abandonment of Democratic Front in March 2015, Andrija Mandić became de facto leader of opposition.\n\nIn the 8th assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (2009–2012), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Srđan Milić, leader of the Socialist People's Party (SNP).\n\nIn the 7th assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (2006–2009), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Nebojša Medojević, leader of the Movement for Changes (PzP).\n\nIn the 5th (2001-2002) and 6th (2002-2006) assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament, the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Predrag Bulatović, leader of the Socialist People's Party (SNP). \n\nIn the 4th assembly (1998-2001) of the Montenegrin Parliament, the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Momir Bulatović, leader of the Socialist People's Party (SNP). After Momir Bulatović's abandonment of SNP in September 2000, Predrag Bulatović became new president of the party and the leader of the opposition.\n\nIn the third assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (1996-1998), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Novak Kilibarda, leader of the People's Party (NS).\n\nIn the second assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament (1992-1996), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Novak Kilibarda, leader of the People's Party (NS).\n\nIn the first assembly of the Montenegrin Parliament since introduction of multi-party system (1990-1992), the parties in parliament that include the opposition were:\n\nThe leader of the opposition was Ljubiša Stanković, leader of the Union of Reform Forces of Yugoslavia (SRSJ) in SR Montenegro.\n\n"}
{"id": "21711858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21711858", "title": "Patent encumbrance of large automotive NiMH batteries", "text": "Patent encumbrance of large automotive NiMH batteries\n\nThe patent encumbrance of large automotive NiMH batteries refers to allegations that corporate interests have used the patent system to prevent the commercialization of nickel metal hydride (NiMH) battery technology. Nickel metal hydride battery technology is potentially important to the development of battery electric vehicles (BEVs or EVs), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) and hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs). Others hold that the commercial development of nickel metal hydride batteries is the result of the inability of the technology to compete with lighter weight lithium batteries.\n\nThe modern nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) electric vehicle battery was invented by Dr. Masahiko Oshitani, of the GS Yuasa Corporation, and Stanford Ovshinsky, the founder of the Ovonics Battery Company, and granted a patent. The current trend in the industry is towards the development of lithium-ion (Li-Ion) technology to replace NiMH in electric vehicles. In 2009, Toyota tested lithium batteries as a potential replacement for the nickel metal hydride batteries used in its Prius model gasoline-electric hybrid. The company said that it would continue to use NiMH batteries in the Prius, but would introduce an all-electric vehicle based on lithium technology. Li-Ion technology, while functionally superior due to its higher specific energy and specific power, it is more expensive and, as of 2009, relatively untested with regards to its long-term reliability. In 2007, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory said that Li-Ion batteries may be subject to dangerous overheating and fire if cells are controlled incorrectly or damaged. In 2011, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration investigated the safety of lithium battery powered vehicles and concluded that they pose no more risk of fire than other vehicles.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Energy. the primary advantages of lithium batteries include their high power-to-weight ratio, high energy efficiency, good high temperature performance, and low tendency to spontaneously discharge when left unused for extended periods of times. Nickel hydride batteries have higher self-discharge, tend to generate heat at high temperatures, and have problems with hydrogen loss.\n\nIn an interview in the 2006 documentary \"Who Killed the Electric Car?\", Ovshinsky stated that in the early 1990s, the auto industry created the US Auto Battery Consortium (USABC) to stifle the development of electric vehicle technology by preventing the dissemination of knowledge about Ovshinky's battery-related patents to the public through the California Air Resources Board (CARB).\n\nAccording to Ovshinsky, the auto industry falsely suggested that NiMH technology was not yet ready for widespread use in road cars. Members of the USABC, including General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler, threatened to take legal action against Ovshinsky if he continued to promote NiMH's potential for use in BEVs, and if he continued to lend test batteries to Solectria, a start-up electric vehicle maker that was not part of the USABC. The Big Three car companies argued that his behavior violated their exclusive rights to the battery technology, because they had matched a federal government grant given to Ovonics to develop NiMH technology. Critics argue that the Big Three were more interested in convincing CARB members that electric vehicles were not technologically and commercially viable.\nIn 1994, General Motors acquired a controlling interest in Ovonics's battery development and manufacture, including patents controlling the manufacture of large NiMH batteries. The original intent of the equity alliance was to develop NiMH batteries for GM's EV1 BEV. Sales of GM-Ovonics batteries were later taken over by GM manager and critic of CARB John Williams, leading Ovshinsky to wonder whether his decision to sell to GM had been naive. The EV1 program was shut down by GM before the new NiMH battery could be commercialized, despite field tests that indicated the Ovonics battery extended the EV1's range to over 150 miles.\n\nIn 2001, oil company Texaco purchased General Motors' share in GM Ovonics. Texaco was itself acquired by rival Chevron several months later. The same year, Ovonics filed a patent infringement suit against Toyota's battery supplier, Panasonic, that led to a negotiated settlement in 2004. The agreement included extensive cross-licensing of each company's patents, a joint research venture to improve nickel hydride battery technology, and restrictions on Panasonic's use of its large format NiMH batteries for certain transportation uses until 2007. In 2003, Texaco Ovonics Battery Systems was restructured into Cobasys, a 50/50 joint venture between ChevronTexaco and Ovonics, now known as Energy Conversion Devices (ECD) Ovonics. Energy Conversion Devices announced that they had exercised an option to purchase back 4,376,633 shares of stock from a Chevron subsidiary, and would cancel and return them to authorized-unissued status. This is the exact number of shares that was listed as owned by ChevronTexaco in the January 15, 2003 filing.\n\nChevronTexaco also maintained veto power over any sale or licensing of NiMH technology. In addition, ChevronTexaco maintained the right to seize all of Cobasys' intellectual property rights in the event that ECD Ovonics did not fulfill its contractual obligations. On September 10, 2007, ChevronTexaco (now known as simply \"Chevron\") filed suit claiming that ECD Ovonics had not fulfilled its obligations. ECD Ovonics disputed this claim. The arbitration hearing has been repeatedly suspended while the parties negotiated with General Motors over the sale of Cobasys back to GM. As of March 2008, no agreement had been reached with GM.\n\nIn her 2007 book \"Plug-in Hybrids: The Cars that Will Recharge America\", Sherry Boschert argues that large-format NiMH batteries (i.e., 25 amp-hours or more) are commercially viable but that Cobasys would only accept very large orders (more than 10,000) for these batteries. The effect is that this policy precludes small companies and individuals from buying them. It also precludes larger auto manufacturers from developing test fleets of new PHEV and EV designs. Toyota employees complained about the difficulty in getting smaller orders of large format NiMH batteries to service the existing 825 RAV4 EVs. \nSince no other companies were willing to make large orders, Cobasys was not manufacturing nor licensing any large format NiMH battery technology for automotive purposes. Boschert quotes Dave Goldstein, president of the Electric Vehicle Association of Washington D.C., as saying this policy is necessary because the cost of setting up a multimillion-dollar battery assembly line could not be justified without guaranteed orders of 100,000 batteries (~12,000 EVs) per year for 3 years. Boschert concludes that, \"it's possible that Cobasys (Chevron) is squelching all access to large NiMH batteries through its control of patent licenses in order to remove a competitor to gasoline. Or it's possible that Cobasys simply wants the market for itself and is waiting for a major automaker to start producing plug-in hybrids or electric vehicles.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"The Economist\", Ovshinsky subscribed to the former view. \"I think we at ECD made a mistake of having a joint venture with an oil company, frankly speaking. And I think it's not a good idea to go into business with somebody whose strategies would put you out of business, rather than building the business.\" In the same interview, however, when asked, \"So it’s your opinion that Cobasys is preventing other people from making it for that reason?\", he responded, \"Cobasys is not preventing anybody. Cobasys just needs an infusion of cash.\"\n\nIn October 2007, International Acquisitions Services, Inc. and Innovative Transportation Systems AG filed suit against Cobasys and its parents for refusing to fill a large, previously agreed-upon, order for large-format NiMH batteries to be used in the Innovan electric vehicle. In August 2008, Mercedes-Benz sued Cobasys for again refusing to fill a large, previously agreed-upon order for NiMH batteries.\n\nMultiple companies have tried to develop NiMH battery technology without making use of Ovonics' patents. Electro Energy Inc., working with CalCars, converted a Toyota Prius from a hybrid electric vehicle to a PHEV using its own bipolar NiMH batteries. Plug-In Conversions uses Nilar NiMH batteries and the EAA-PHEV open source control system in its Prius PHEV conversions. These organizations maintain that these developments are allowable because their NiMH battery technologies are not covered by Cobasys' patents. These batteries became commercially available in late 2007.\n\nOn July 28, 2009, \"Automotive News\" reported that Cobasys would be bought from Chevron and Energy Conversion Devices by battery maker SB LiMotive, a joint venture of Bosch and Samsung. At the time of the 2009 Cobasys sale, control of NiMH battery technology transferred back to ECD Ovonics. In October 2009, ECD Ovonics announced that their next-generation NiMH batteries will provide specific energy and power that are comparable to those of lithium-ion batteries at a cost that is significantly lower than the cost of lithium-ion batteries.\n\nOn February 3, 2010, patent JP2003504507 was refused, hence removing any patent encumbrance in Japan.\n\nOn July 2, 2010, patent US6413670, expired due to lack of fee payments for the 8th year from filing the patent, hence removing any patent encumbrance in the USA.\n\nOn February 14, 2012, BASF announced that it had acquired Ovonic Battery Company from Energy Conversion Devices Inc. But Chevron Corp. held the patent US6969567 for the NiMH multi-cell battery pack for cars until its expiration on August 23, 2018. This particular patent's maintenance fees for the 4th (2008) and 8th (2012) years were paid.\n\nThere may be other patents which are still current and may affect the production of NiMH multi-cell battery packs.\n"}
{"id": "2263462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2263462", "title": "Paul Hirst", "text": "Paul Hirst\n\nPaul Quentin Hirst (; 20 May 1946, Holbeton – 17 June 2003, London) was a British sociologist and political theorist. He became Professor of Social Theory at Birkbeck, University of London in 1985 and held the post until his death from a stroke and brain haemorrhage.\n\nOn 20 May 1946, Hirst was born in Holbeton, Devon. His father was in the armed forces and part of this childhood was spent in Germany. He went to grammar school in Plymouth, he studied social science at the University of Leicester, where he was taught by Sami Zubaida, and took his master’s in sociology at the University of Sussex.\n\nHirst studied at the University of Leicester, one of his teachers was Sami Zubaida. He did his masters in Sociology at the University of Sussex before taking up a lectureship at Birkbeck College in 1969. In 1972, he was one of the founding members of the Department of Politics and Sociology at Birkbeck. He was appointed Reader in Social Theory in 1978 and Professor seven years later.\n\nDuring the 1970s he became well known (along with Barry Hindess) as the main figure in British Althusserianism. By the late 1970s and 1980s, however, Hirst had become a critic of Louis Althusser's brand of Marxism. Drawing upon Foucault but also Quine and Wittgenstein, he criticised essentialism, epistemological discourses and the possibility of any general theory, in a move against careless sociological constructionist imperialism. In his work on democratic governance, he turned towards the ideas of the English political pluralists: J. N. Figgis, G. D. H. Cole, and Harold Laski. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Hirst developed a theory of associationalism which attempted to revive social democracy by providing an alternative to state socialism and free-market liberalism. He also made important contributions to critical legal theory.\n\nHis later work, with Grahame Thompson resulted in an influential criticism of fashionable theories of economic globalisation, demonstrating the continued importance of the nation-state. His book 'War and Power' is a historical-sociological analysis of the development of the modern state and state system and addresses some of current political challenges including climate change. His last book 'Space and Power' clearly demonstrated his intellectual scope. In the book he investigates the relationship between space and power, arguing that the exercise of power is both constrained by and shapes the character of the built environment.\n\nWith Mark Cousins, Colin MacCabe, and Richard Humphreys, he founded the London Consortium in 1993. He chaired the Executive Committee of Charter 88 and was an early and regular contributor to openDemocracy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1122115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122115", "title": "Politeia", "text": "Politeia\n\nPoliteia (πολιτεία) is an ancient Greek word used in Greek political thought, especially that of Plato and Aristotle. Derived from the word \"polis\" (\"city-state\"), it has a range of meanings, from \"the rights of citizens\" to a \"form of government\".\n\nAccording to Liddell and Scott's \"Greek-English Lexicon\" a meaning of politeia is \"the conditions and rights of the citizen, or \"citizenship\"\", analogous to the Latin \"civitas\".\n\n\"Politeia\", in Greek means the community of citizens in a city / state. It should not be confused with \"regime\" that is meant by \"politeuma\" or \"Status quo\" that is meant by \"kathestos\".\nThe regime is the word describing the political situation of the community of citizens\nin a city/state, and \"kathestos\" means also the general situation of an object, an agreement,\nor something else.\n\n\"Politeia\" is derived from both the root word \"polis\" meaning city/state, and from the verb \"politeuomai\" that means “I am living as an active citizen of the \"polis\".”\n\nPeople living in a Greek city/state were not necessarily citizens. A person that was ostracized from the active matrix of the \ncity was an example of such. Another example was people who lived in the city but were not \nactive citizens who had a say in the political processes of the community. Women, slaves and \nothers who were deemed unworthy for some reason were not in the active matrix of the \npolitical formations of that city state, making them not-citizens, so not part of \"politeia\".\n\nIn the works of ancient Greek philosophers, the principal meaning of \"politeia\" appears to be: \"how a \"polis\" is run; constitution\". A \"politeia\" differs from modern written constitutions in two respects: first, not all Greek states put their laws in writing; more importantly, the Greeks did not normally distinguish between ordinary and constitutional legislation. If a certain body had the power to change the laws, it had the power to change the laws controlling its own power and membership - even to abolish itself and set up a new governing body.\n\nThe phrases \"system of government\", \"state organisation\", \"form of government\", and, more recently, \"régime\" have also been used to translate \"politeia\". \"Régime\" has drawbacks: it is ambiguous where \"politeia\" is not, since a change of \"régime\" can mean a change of governors under the same form of government. It has a negative tone in English, which \"politeia\" does not in Greek. It is also a loan-word; and in that regard, has no advantage over simply adopting \"politeia\" itself.\n\nSome translators thus use a different term for this second meaning of \"politeia\". Most common is the vague term polity. Specific translations of this second meaning as \"constitutional democracy\" or \"republic\" are at least anachronistic, and in most instances contentious and/or inaccurate. Some translators feel it is incorrect to translate the same word in different ways, arguing that the ambiguity must have been deliberate and that it is impossible to always know which way the word should be rendered.\n\nIn the Greek New Testament \"politeia\" is translated as \"commonwealth\" or \"freedom\" in Ephesians 2:12 and Acts 22:28.\n\n\"Politeia\" is the original title of the book by Plato now commonly known in English as \"The Republic\". Cicero translated \"politeia\" as \"res publica\" (see also: \"De re publica\"), from which the modern word republic comes. Note that the meanings the ancient Romans attached to \"res publica\" were also multiple and only partially overlapping with the Greek \"politeia\", and further that few of the multiple meanings of \"politeia\" or \"res publica\" are much of an equivalent to \"republic\" as it is understood in modern political science.\n\nIn the \"Constitution of the Athenians\" (\"Athenaion Politeia\"), Aristotle uses \"politeia\" for eleven states of the Athenian government up to his own time, from the absolute monarchy of Ionia and the tyranny of the Thirty to the democratic Assembly and selection by lot of Pericles's time and his own. He may have added that the absolute monarchy of Ion was \"less political\" than that of Theseus or the later constitutions, but the text is doubtful.\n\nIn his \"Politics\", Aristotle clearly uses \"politeia\" both as above and also in a more restricted sense. Exactly what this sense is, and whether Aristotle is using it in a consistent manner, have both been long debated. By careful choice of quotation, all of the following can be defended: \nIn Book III of his \"Politics\" (1279a), Aristotle seems to indicate that, in principle, \"politeia\" refers generically to any form of government or constitution, although he uses the word also to call a particular form of government: “\"When the citizens at large govern for the public good, it is called by the name common to all governments\" (politeion)\", government\" (politeia)”.\n\nWhy Aristotle uses the same term to refer to at least two distinct ideas has confused readers for millennia. For instance, later Aristotle refers to the ideal politeia as one using a mixed government. But it is uncertain whether he is referring to governments in general or to a specific form.\n\nIn the New Testament \"politeia\" refers both the Greek World as well as to the nation of Israel. Strong's Concordance defines the term as:\nSignifies (a) \"the relation in which a citizen stands to the state, the condition of a citizen, citizenship,\" Acts 22:28, \"with a great sum obtained I this citizenship\" (KJV, \"freedom\"). While Paul's \"citizenship\" of Tarsus was not of advantagre outside that city, yet his Roman \"citizenship\" availed throughout the Roman Empire and, besides private rights, included (1) exemption from all degrading punishments; (2) a right of appeal to the emperor after a sentence; (3) a right to be sent to Rome for trial before the emperor if charged with a capital offense. Paul's father might have obtained \"citizenship\" (1) by manumission; (2) as a reward of merit; (3) by purchase; the contrast implied in Acts 22:28 is perhaps against the last mentioned; (b) \"a civil polity, the condition of a state, a commonwealth,\" said of Israel, Ephesians 2:12.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "195777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195777", "title": "Political action committee", "text": "Political action committee\n\nIn the United States and Canada, a political action committee (PAC) is an organization that pools campaign contributions from members and donates those funds to campaigns for or against candidates, ballot initiatives, or legislation. \nThe legal term PAC has been created in pursuit of campaign finance reform in the United States. This term is quite specific to all activities of campaign finance in the United States. Democracies of other countries use different terms for the units of campaign spending or spending on political competition (see political finance). At the U.S. federal level, an organization becomes a PAC when it receives or spends more than $1,000 for the purpose of influencing a federal election, and registers with the Federal Election Commission, according to the Federal Election Campaign Act as amended by the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (also known as the McCain-Feingold Act). At the state level, an organization becomes a PAC according to the state's election laws.\n\nFederal multi-candidate PACs may contribute to candidates as follows:\n\nIn its 2010 case \"Citizens United v. FEC\", the Supreme Court of the United States overturned sections of the Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (also known as the McCain-Feingold Act) that had prohibited corporate and union political independent expenditures in political campaigns. \"Citizens United\" made it legal for corporations and unions to spend from their general treasuries to finance independent expenditures related to campaigns, but did not alter the prohibition on direct corporate or union contributions to federal campaigns. Organizations seeking to contribute directly to federal candidate campaigns must still rely on traditional PACs for that purpose.\n\nThe first PAC was the CIO-PAC, formed in July 1943 under CIO president Philip Murray and headed by Sidney Hillman.\n\nFederal law formally allows for two types of PACs: connected and non-connected. Judicial decisions added a third classification, independent-expenditure only committees, which are colloquially known as \"Super PACs\".\n\nMost of the 4,600 active, registered PACs are \"connected PACs\" established by businesses, labor unions, trade groups, or health organizations. These PACs receive and raise money from a \"restricted class\", generally consisting of managers and shareholders in the case of a corporation and members in the case of a union or other interest group. As of January 2009, there were 1,598 registered corporate PACs, 272 related to labor unions and 995 to trade organizations. \n\nGroups with an ideological mission, single-issue groups, and members of Congress and other political leaders may form \"non-connected PACs\". These organizations may accept funds from any individual, connected PAC, or organization. As of January 2009, there were 1,594 non-connected PACs, the fastest-growing category.\n\nElected officials and political parties cannot give more than the federal limit directly to candidates. However, they can set up a Leadership PAC that makes independent expenditures. Provided the expenditure is not coordinated with the other candidate, this type of spending is not limited.\n\nUnder the FEC (Federal Election Commission) rules, leadership PACs are non-connected PACs, and can accept donations from individuals and other PACs. Since current officeholders have an easier time attracting contributions, Leadership PACs are a way dominant parties can capture seats from other parties. A leadership PAC sponsored by an elected official cannot use funds to support that official's own campaign. However, it may fund travel, administrative expenses, consultants, polling, and other non-campaign expenses.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2009, leadership PACs raised and spent more than $47 million.\n\n\nSuper PACs, officially known as \"independent-expenditure only committees\", may not make contributions to candidate campaigns or parties, but may engage in unlimited political spending independently of the campaigns. Unlike traditional PACs, they can raise funds from individuals, corporations, unions, and other groups without any legal limit on donation size.\n\nSuper PACs were made possible by two judicial decisions: the aforementioned \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\" and, two months later, \"Speechnow.org v. FEC\". In \"Speechnow.org\", the federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit held that PACs that did not make contributions to candidates, parties, or other PACs could accept unlimited contributions from individuals, unions, and corporations (both for profit and not-for-profit) for the purpose of making independent expenditures.\n\nThe result of the \"Citizens United\" and \"SpeechNow.org\" decisions was the rise of a new type of political action committee in 2010, popularly dubbed the \"super PAC\". In an open meeting on July 22, 2010, the FEC approved two Advisory Opinions to modify FEC policy in accordance with the legal decisions. These Advisory Opinions were issued in response to requests from two existing PACs, Club for Growth, and Commonsense Ten, which later became Senate Majority PAC. The opinions gave a sample wording letter which all Super PACs must submit to qualify for the deregulated status, and such letters continue to be used by Super PACs up to the present date. FEC Chairman Steven T. Walther dissented on both opinions and issued a statement giving his thoughts. In the statement, Walther stated \"There are provisions of the Act and Commission regulations \"not addressed by the court in SpeechNow\" that continue to prohibit Commonsense Ten from soliciting or accepting contributions from political committees in excess of $5,000 annually or any contributions from corporations or labor organizations\" (emphasis in original).\n\nThe term \"Super PAC\" was coined by reporter Eliza Newlin Carney. According to \"Politico\", Carney, a staff writer covering lobbying and influence for \"CQ Roll Call\", \"made the first identifiable, published reference to 'super PAC' as it's known today while working at \"National Journal\", writing on June 26, 2010, of a group called Workers' Voices, that it was a kind of super PAC' that could become increasingly popular in the post-Citizens United world.\"\n\nAccording to FEC advisories, Super PACs are not allowed to coordinate directly with candidates or political parties. This restriction is intended to prevent them from operating campaigns that complement or parallel those of the candidates they support or engaging in negotiations that could result in \"quid pro quo\" bargaining between donors to the PAC and the candidate or officeholder. However, it is legal for candidates and Super PAC managers to discuss campaign strategy and tactics through the media.\n\nSuper PACs may support particular candidacies. In the 2012 presidential election, Super PACs played a major role, spending more than the candidates' election campaigns in the Republican primaries. As of early April 2012, Restore Our Future—a Super PAC usually described as having been created to help Mitt Romney's presidential campaign—had spent $40 million. (a pro–Newt Gingrich group) spent $16 million. Some Super PACs are run or advised by a candidate's former staff or associates.\n\nIn the 2012 election campaign, most of the money given to super PACs came from wealthy individuals, not corporations. According to data from the Center for Responsive Politics, the top 100 individual super PAC donors in 2011–2012 made up just 3.7% of contributors, but accounted for more than 80% of the total money raised, while less than 0.5% of the money given to \"the most active Super PACs\" was donated by publicly traded corporations. Super PACs have been criticized for relying heavily on negative ads.\n\nAs of February 2012, according to Center for Responsive Politics, 313 groups organized as Super PACs had received $98,650,993 and spent $46,191,479. This means early in the 2012 election cycle, PACs had already greatly exceeded total receipts of 2008. The leading Super PAC on its own raised more money than the combined total spent by the top 9 PACS in the 2008 cycle.\n\nThe 2012 figures do not include funds raised by state level PACs.\n\nBy January 2010, at least 38 states and the federal government required disclosure for all or some independent expenditures or electioneering communications. These disclosures were intended to deter potentially or seemingly corrupting donations.\n\nYet despite disclosure rules, it is possible to spend money without voters knowing the identities of donors before the election. In federal elections, for example, political action committees have the option to choose to file reports on a \"monthly\" or \"quarterly\" basis. This allows funds raised by PACs in the final days of the election to be spent and votes cast before the report is due.\n\nIn one high-profile case, a donor to a super PAC kept his name hidden by using an LLC formed for the purpose of hiding their personal name. One super PAC, that originally listed a $250,000 donation from an LLC that no one could find, led to a subsequent filing where the previously \"secret donors\" were revealed. However, campaign finance experts have argued that this tactic is already illegal, since it would constitute a contribution in the name of another.\n\nThe Center for Responsive Politics maintains a list of the largest PACs by election cycle on its website OpenSecrets.org. Their list can be filtered by receipts or different types of expenses, political party, and type of PAC.\n\nIn the 2008 election, the top nine PACs spent a total of $25,794,807 (directly, and via their affiliates and subsidiaries) as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "846426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=846426", "title": "Political crime", "text": "Political crime\n\nIn criminology, a political crime or political offence is an offence involving overt acts or omissions (where there is a duty to act), which prejudice the interests of the state, its government, or the political system. It is to be distinguished from state crime, in which it is the states that break both their own criminal laws or public international law.\n\nStates will define as political crimes any behaviour perceived as a threat, real or imagined, to the state's survival, including both violent and non-violent oppositional crimes. A consequence of such criminalisation may be that a range of human rights, civil rights, and freedoms are curtailed, and conduct which would not normally be considered criminal \"per se\" (in other words, that is not antisocial according to those who engage in it) is criminalised at the convenience of the group holding power.\n\nThus, there may be a question of the morality of a law which simply criminalises ordinary political dissent, even though the majority of those who support the current regime may consider criminalisation of politically motivated behaviour an acceptable response when the offender is driven by more extreme political, ideological, religious or other beliefs, \n\nAt one extreme, crimes such as treason, sedition, and terrorism are political because they represent a direct challenge to the government in power. Espionage is usually considered a criminal act. But offenders do not have to aim to overthrow the government or to depose its leaders to be acting in a way perceived as \"political\". A state may perceive it threatening if individuals advocate change to the established order, or argue the need for reform of long-established policies, or engage in acts signifying some degree of disloyalty, e.g. by burning the nation's flag in public. But the scope of such crimes can be rather less direct.\n\nStructural functionist criminologists recognise that states invest their resources in maintaining order through social conformity, i.e. a particular culture is encouraged and maintained through the primary social discourses which may include religious, economic, social, or other less formal concerns. Any interference with the media of communication or the sets of meanings embedded in the communications themselves may be perceived as a threat to the political authority of the state. Hence, whether in hard copy or electronically, if individuals distribute material containing uncensored information which undermines the credibility of state-controlled news media, this may be considered threatening.\n\nMoreover, even an offence against non-governmental institutions, persons, or practices may be deemed political. Violence or even discrimination against an ethnic or racial group, as well trade union strikes or picketing against private employers, can be perceived as a political crime when those in power see such conduct as undermining the political (and economic) stability of the state. In this context, note that the Law Enforcement Code of Conduct passed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police says in part: \"The fundamental duties of a police officer include serving the community, safeguarding lives and property, protecting the innocent, keeping the peace and ensuring the rights of all to liberty, equality and justice\" (cited in Robinson, 2002). This code requires that police behave in a courteous and fair manner, that they treat all citizens in a respectable and decent manner, and that they never use unnecessary force. When they do, it is argued that this constitutes a crime (e.g. as an assault) and, if it is institutionalised, then over time, the use of unnecessary force become a state crime.\n\nMarxist criminologists argue that most political crime arises from the efforts of the state to reproduce the structures of inequality: racism, sexism, ethnic preference as well as class advantages. Thus, states will protect property rights and reduce the rights of trade unions to represent the interests of the poor. Even war could be grounded in the problems of local capitalists in wealthy countries in the effort to move raw materials, profits and jobs in a globalised political economy, and opposing such a war will be a political crime. Marxists do not dispute that, for a society to function efficiently, social order is necessary. But they consider that, in all societies, one class, usually characterised as the \"ruling class\", gains far more than other classes. Marxists agree with functionalists that socialisation plays a crucial role in promoting conformity and order. However, unlike the latter, they are highly critical of the ideas, values and norms of \"capitalist ideology\". Modern Marxists point to education and the media as socialising agencies, which delude or \"mystify\" the working class into conforming to a social order, which works against its real interests. Thus, all controls which directly or indirectly explit the criminal law to control access to the discourses are political crimes.\n\nMiller says that one of the defining characteristics of power in modern history has been the rationalisation and bureaucratisation of law. Legal codification, or at least debates over the merits of legal codification, became an almost global phenomenon in the nineteenth century as state power was centralised. In particular, the rationalisation of criminal law standardised not just the concept of crime, but was adopted as the means to eliminate the \"deviant\" as a threat to a modern, uniform, moral standard. In this, the religious establishment began to play a new role in defining \"evil\" in which threats to the political or social norm became as dangerous as threats to religious orthodoxy. Thus, political speech became one of the most likely activities to be criminalised. The freedom of association and to meet may also be criminalised if the purpose is to express oppositional political views.\n\nBecause a political offender may be fighting against a tyrannical government, treaties have usually specified that a person cannot be extradited for a political offense. Thomas Jefferson wrote:\n\nPeople convicted or suspected of certain crimes classified as terrorism by the government of their country (or some foreign countries) reject that classification. They consider that their fight is a legitimate one using legitimate means, and thus their crimes should be more appropriately called political crimes and justify special treatment in the penal system (as if they were soldiers in a war and therefore covered by the Geneva Convention). States tend to consider the political nature of the crimes an aggravating factor in the sentencing process and make no distinction between the terrorists and \"ordinary\" offenders, e.g. the convicted murderers of Action Directe consider themselves political prisoners.\n\nWhere there is no clear separation between the state and the prevailing religion, the edicts of the church may be codified as law and enforced by the secular policing and judicial authorities. This is a highly functionalist mechanism for enforcing conformity in all aspects of cultural life and the use of the label \"crime\" adds an extra layer of stigma to those convicted.\n\n"}
{"id": "25428398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25428398", "title": "Public opinion on global warming", "text": "Public opinion on global warming\n\nPublic opinion on global warming is the aggregate of attitudes or beliefs held by the adult population concerning the science, economics, and politics of global warming. It is affected by media coverage of climate change.\n\nA 2007–2008 Gallup Poll surveyed individuals in 128 countries. This poll queried whether the respondent knew of global warming. Those who had a basic concept of global warming didn’t necessarily connect it to human activities, revealing that a knowledge of global warming and the knowledge that it’s human-induced are two separate things. Over a third of the world's population were unaware of global warming. Developing countries have less awareness than developed, and Africa the least aware. Of those aware, residents of Latin America and developed countries in Asia led the belief that climate change is a result of human activities while Africa, parts of Asia and the Middle East, and a few countries from the former Soviet Union led in the opposite. Opinion within the United Kingdom was divided.\n\nThe first major worldwide poll, conducted by Gallup in 2008–2009 in 127 countries, found that some 62% of people worldwide said they knew about global warming. In the industrialized countries of North America, Europe and Japan, 90% or more knew about it (97% in the U.S., 99% in Japan); in developing countries, especially in Africa, fewer than a quarter knew about it, although many had noticed local weather changes. Among those who knew about global warming, there was a wide variation between nations in belief that the warming was a result of human activities.\n\nAdults in Asia, with the exception of those in developed countries, are the least likely to perceive global warming as a threat. In the western world, individuals are the most likely to be aware and perceive it as a very or somewhat serious threat to themselves and their families; although Europeans are more concerned about climate change than those in the United States. However, the public in Africa, where individuals are the most vulnerable to global warming while producing the least carbon dioxide, is the least aware – which translates into a low perception that it is a threat.\n\nThese variations pose a challenge to policymakers, as different countries travel down different paths, making an agreement over an appropriate response difficult. While Africa may be the most vulnerable and produce the least amount of greenhouse gases, they are the most ambivalent. The top five emitters (China, the United States, India, Russia, and Japan), who together emit half the world's greenhouse gases, vary in both awareness and concern. The United States, Russia, and Japan are the most aware at over 85% of the population. Conversely, only two-thirds of people in China and one-third in India are aware. Japan expresses the greatest concern, which translates into support for environmental policies. People in China, Russia, and the United States, while varying in awareness, have expressed a similar proportion of aware individuals concerned. Similarly, those aware in India are likely to be concerned, but India faces challenges spreading this concern to the remaining population as its energy needs increase over the next decade.\n\nAn online survey on environmental questions conducted in 20 countries by Ipsos MORI, \"Global Trends 2014\", shows broad agreement, especially on climate change and if it is caused by humans, though the U.S. ranked lowest with 54% agreement. It has been suggested that the low U.S. ranking is tied to denial campaigns.\n\nA 2010 survey of 14 industrialized countries found that skepticism about the danger of global warming was highest in Australia, Norway, New Zealand and the United States, in that order, correlating positively with per capita emissions of carbon dioxide.\n\nIn 2009 Yale University conducted a study identifying global warming's 'Six Americas'. The report identifies six audiences with different opinions about global warning: The alarmed (18%), the concerned (33%), the cautious (19%), the disengaged (12%), the doubtful (11%) and the dismissive (7%). The alarmed and concerned make out the largest percentage and think something should be done about global warming. The cautious, disengaged and doubtful are less likely to take action. The dismissive are convinced global warming is not happening. These audiences can be used to define the best approaches for environmental action. The theory of the 'Six Americas' is also used for marketing purposes.\n\nOpinions in the United States vary intensely enough to be considered a culture war. \n\nIn a January 2013 survey, Pew found that 69% of Americans say there is solid evidence that the Earth's average temperature has gotten warmer over the past few decades, up six points since November 2011 and 12 points since 2009.\n\nA Gallup poll in 2014 concluded that 51 percent of Americans were a little or not at all worried about climate change, 24 percent a great deal and 25 percent a fair amount. \n\nIn 2015, 32 percent or Americans were worried about global warming as a great deal, 37 percent in 2016, and 45 percent in 2017. A poll taken in 2016 shows that 52% of Americans believe climate change to be caused by human activity, while 34% state it is caused by natural changes. Data is increasingly showing that 62 percent of Americans believe that the effects of global warming are happening now in 2017.\n\nIn 2016 GALLUP found that 64% of Americans are worried about global warming, 59% believed that global warming is already happening and 65% is convinced that global warming is caused by human activities. These numbers show that awareness of global warming is increasing in the United States\n\nIn countries varying in awareness, an educational gap translates into a gap in awareness. However an increase in awareness does not always result in an increase in perceived threat. In China, 98% of those who have completed four years or more of college education reported knowing something or a great deal of climate change while only 63% of those who have completed nine years of education reported the same. Despite the differences in awareness in China, all groups perceive a low level of threat from global warming. In India those who are educated are more likely to be aware, and those who are educated there are far more likely to report perceiving global warming as a threat than those who are not educated. In Europe, individuals who have attained a higher level of education perceive climate change as a serious threat. There is also a strong association between education and Internet use. Europeans who use the Internet more are more likely to perceive climate change as a serious threat. However, a survey of American adults found that \"...there is in fact little disagreement among culturally diverse citizens on what science knows about climate change. The source of the climate-change controversy and like disputes over societal risks is the contamination of the science-communication environment with forms of cultural status competition that make it impossible for diverse citizens to express their reason as both collective-knowledge acquirers and cultural-identity protectors at the same time.\n\nResidential demographics affect perceptions of global warming. In China, 77% of those who live in urban areas are aware of global warming compared to 52% in rural areas. This trend is mirrored in India with 49% to 29% awareness, respectively.\n\nOf the countries where at least half the population is aware of global warming, those with the majority who believe that global warming is due to human activities have a greater national GDP per unit energy—or, a greater energy efficiency.\n\nIn Europe, individuals under fifty-five are more likely to perceive both \"poverty, lack of food and drinking water\" and climate change as a serious threat than individuals over fifty-five. Male individuals are more likely to perceive climate change as a threat than female individuals. Managers, white collar workers, and students are more likely to perceive climate change as a greater threat than house persons and retired individuals.\n\nIn the United States, conservative white men are more likely than other Americans to deny climate change.\n\nIn the United States, support for environmental protection was relatively non-partisan in the twentieth century. Republican Theodore Roosevelt established national parks whereas Democrat Franklin Delano Roosevelt established the Soil Conservation Service. Republican Richard Nixon was instrumental in founding the United States Environmental Protection Agency, and tried to install a third pillar of NATO dealing with environmental challenges such as acid rain and greenhouse effect. Daniel Patrick Moynihan was Nixon's NATO delegate for the topic.\n\nThis non-partisanship began to erode during the 1980s, when the Reagan administration described environmental protection as an economic burden. Views over global warming began to seriously diverge between Democrats and Republicans during the negotiations that led up to the creation of the Kyoto Protocol in 1998. In a 2008 Gallup poll of the American public, 76% of Democrats and only 41% of Republicans said that they believed global warming was already happening. The opinions of the political elites, such as members of Congress, tends to be even more polarized.\n\nIn Europe, opinion is not strongly divided among left and right parties. Although European political parties on the left, including Green parties, strongly support measures to address climate change, conservative European political parties maintain similar sentiments, most notably in Western and Northern Europe. For example, Margaret Thatcher, never a friend of the coal mining industry, was a strong supporter of an active climate protection policy and was instrumental in founding the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the British Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research. Some speeches, as to the Royal Society on 27 September 1988 and to the UN general assembly in November 1989 helped to put climate change, acid rain, and general pollution in the British mainstream. After her career, however, Thatcher was less of a climate activist, as she called climate action a \"marvelous excuse for supranational socialism,\" and called Al Gore an \"apocalyptic hyperbole\". France's center-right President Chirac pushed key environmental and climate change policies in France in 2005–2007. Conservative German administrations (under the Christian Democratic Union and Christian Social Union) in the past two decades have supported European Union climate change initiatives; concern about forest dieback and acid rain regulation were initiated under Kohl's archconservative minister of the interior Friedrich Zimmermann. In the period after former President George W. Bush announced that the United States was leaving the Kyoto Treaty, European media and newspapers on both the left and right criticized the move. The conservative Spanish \"La Razón\", the \"Irish Times\", the \"Irish Independent\", the Danish \"Berlingske Tidende\", and the Greek \"Kathimerini\" all condemned the Bush administration's decision, as did left-leaning newspapers.\n\nIn Norway, a 2013 poll conducted by TNS Gallup found that 92% of those who vote for the Socialist Left Party and 89% of those who vote for the Liberal Party believe that global warming is caused by humans, while the percentage who held this belief is 60% among voters for the Conservative Party and 41% among voters for the Progress Party.\n\nThe shared sentiments between the political left and right on climate change further illustrate the divide in perception between the United States and Europe on climate change. As an example, conservative German Prime Ministers Helmut Kohl and Angela Merkel have differed with other parties in Germany only on how to meet emissions reduction targets, not whether or not to establish or fulfill them.\n\nA 2017 study found that those who changed their opinion on climate change between 2010 and 2014 did so \"primarily to align better with those who shared their party identification and political ideology. This conforms with the theory of motivated reasoning: Evidence consistent with prior beliefs is viewed as strong and, on politically salient issues, people strive to bring their opinions into conformance with those who share their political identity\".\n\nThe IPCC attempts to orchestrate global (climate) change research to shape a worldwide consensus. However, the consensus approach has been dubbed more a liability than an asset in comparison to other environmental challenges. The linear model of policy-making, based on a \"more knowledge we have, the better the political response will be\" is said to have not been working and is in the meantime rejected by sociology.\n\nSheldon Ungar, a Canadian sociologist, compares the different public reactions towards ozone depletion and global warming. The public opinion failed to tie climate change to concrete events which could be used as a threshold or beacon to signify immediate danger. Scientific predictions of a temperature rise of two to three degrees Celsius over several decades do not respond with people, e.g. in North America, that experience similar swings during a single day. As scientists define global warming a problem of the future, a liability in \"attention economy\", pessimistic outlooks in general and assigning extreme weather to climate change have often been discredited or ridiculed (compare Gore effect) in the public arena. While the greenhouse effect \"per se\" is essential for life on earth, the case was quite different with the ozone shield and other metaphors about the ozone depletion. The scientific assessment of the ozone problem also had large uncertainties. But the metaphors used in the discussion (ozone shield, ozone hole) reflected better with lay people and their concerns.\n\nThe chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) regulation attempts of the end of the 1980s profited from those easy-to-grasp metaphors and the personal risk assumptions taken from them. As well the fate of celebrities like President Ronald Reagan, which had skin cancer removal in 1985 and 1987, was of high importance. In case of the public opinion on climate change, no imminent danger is perceived.\n\nIn the United States, ideology is an effective predictor of party identification, where conservatives are more prevalent among Republicans, and moderates and liberals among independents and Democrats. A shift in ideology is often associated with in a shift in political views. For example, when the number of conservatives rose from 2008 to 2009, the number of individuals who felt that global warming was being exaggerated in the media also rose.\nThe 2006 BBC World Service poll found that when asked about various policy options to reduce greenhouse gas emissions - tax incentives for alternative energy research and development, installment of taxes to encourage energy conservation, and reliance on nuclear energy to reduce fossil fuels. The majority of those asked felt that tax incentives were the path of action that they preferred.\n\nAs of May 2016, polls have repeatedly found that a majority of Republican voters, particularly young ones, believe the government should take action to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nThe pursuit of green energy is an ideology that defines hydroelectric dams, natural gas power plants and nuclear power as unacceptable alternative energies for the eight billion tons of coal burnt each year. While there is popular support for wind, solar, biomass, and geothermal energy, all these sources combined only supplied 1.3% of global energy in 2013.\n\nA 2018 study found that individuals were more likely to accept that global temperatures were increasing if they were shown the information in a chart rather than in text.\n\nA scientific consensus on climate change exists, as recognized by national academies of science and other authoritative bodies. The opinion gap between scientists and the public in 2009 stands at 84% to 49% that global temperatures are increasing because of human-activity. However, more recent research has identified substantial geographical variation in the public's understanding of the scientific consensus.\n\nEconomic debates weigh the benefits of limiting industrial emissions of mitigating global warming against the costs that such changes would entail. While there is a greater amount of agreement over whether global warming exists, there is less agreement over the appropriate response. Electric or petroleum distribution may be government owned or utilities may be regulated by government. The government owned or regulated utilities may, or may not choose to make lower emissions a priority over economics, in unregulated counties industry follows economic priorities. An example of the economic priority is Royal Dutch Shell PLC reporting CO2 emissions of 81 million metric tonnes in 2013.\n\nThe popular media in the U.S. gives greater attention to skeptics relative to the scientific community as a whole, and the level of agreement within the scientific community has not been accurately communicated. US popular media coverage differs from that presented in other countries, where reporting is more consistent with the scientific literature. Some journalists attribute the difference to climate change denial being propagated, mainly in the US, by business-centered organizations employing tactics worked out previously by the US tobacco lobby.\n\nThe efforts of Al Gore and other environmental campaigns have focused on the effects of global warming and have managed to increase awareness and concern, but despite these efforts as of 2007, the number of Americans believing humans are the cause of global warming was holding steady at 61%, and those believing the popular media was understating the issue remained about 35%. Between 2010 and 2013, the number of Americans who believe the media under-reports the seriousness of global warming has been increasing, and the number who think media over-states it has been falling. According to a 2013 Gallup US opinion poll, 57% believe global warming is at least as bad as portrayed in the media (with 33% thinking media has downplayed global warming and 24% saying coverage is accurate). Less than half of Americans (41%) think the problem is not as bad as media portrays it.\n\nSeptember 2011 Angus Reid Public Opinion poll found that Britons (43%) are less likely than Americans (49%) or Canadians (52%) to say that \"global warming is a fact and is mostly caused by emissions from vehicles and industrial facilities.\" The same poll found that 20% of Americans, 20% of Britons and 14% of Canadians think \"global warming is a theory that has not yet been proven.\"\n\nA March 2013 Public Policy Polling poll about widespread and infamous conspiracy theories found that 37% of American voters believe that global warming is a hoax, while 51% do not.\n\nA 2013 poll in Norway conducted by TNS Gallup found that 66% of the population believe that climate change is caused by humans, while 17% do not believe this.\n\nPublic opinion impacts on the issue of climate change because governments need willing electorates and citizens in order to implement policies that address climate change. Further, when climate change perceptions differ between the populace and governments, the communication of risk to the public becomes problematic. Finally, a public that is not aware of the issues surrounding climate change may resist or oppose climate change policies, which is of considerable importance to politicians and state leaders.\n\nPublic support for action to forestall global warming is as strong as public support has been historically for many other government actions; however, it is not \"intense\" in the sense that it overrides other priorities.\n\nA 2009 Eurobarometer survey found that, on the average, Europeans rate climate change as the second most serious problem facing the world today, between \"poverty, the lack of food and drinking water\" and \"a major global economic downturn.\" 87% of Europeans consider climate change to be a \"serious\" or \"very serious\" problem, while 10% \"do not consider it a serious problem.\" However, the proportion who believe it to be a problem has dropped in the period 2008/9 when the surveys were conducted. While the small majority believe climate change is a serious threat, 55% percent believe the EU is doing too little and 30% believe the EU is going the right amount. As a result of European Union climate change perceptions, \"climate change is an issue that has reached such a level of social and political acceptability across the EU that it enables (indeed, forces) the EU Commission and national leaders to produce all sorts of measures, including taxes.\" Despite the persistent high level of personal involvement of European citizens, found in another Eurobarometer survey in 2011, EU leaders have begun to downscale climate policy issues on the political agenda since the beginning of the Eurozone crisis.\n\nThe proportion of Americans who believe that the effects of global warming have begun or will begin in a few years rose to a peak in 2008 where it then declined, and a similar trend was found regarding the belief that global warming is a threat to their lifestyle within their lifetime. Concern over global warming often corresponds with economic downturns and national crisis such as 9/11 as Americans prioritize the economy and national security over environmental concerns. However the drop in concern in 2008 is unique compared to other environmental issues. Considered in the context of environmental issues, Americans consider global warming as a less critical concern than the pollution of rivers, lakes, and drinking water; toxic waste; fresh water needs; air pollution; damage to the ozone layer; and the loss of tropical rain forests. However, Americans prioritize global warming over species extinction and acid rain issues. Since 2000 the partisan gap has grown as Republican and Democratic views diverge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5924318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5924318", "title": "Purpose-centered education", "text": "Purpose-centered education\n\nPurpose-centered education (PCE) is a pedagogical model developed by Audrey Cohen and her colleagues at the College for Human Services, now Metropolitan College of New York, PCE blends theory and practice in students’ jobs and lives to produce graduates with a guiding vision of social justice and continues to underlie the development of the curriculum at Metropolitan College of New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1011941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1011941", "title": "Semi-colony", "text": "Semi-colony\n\nA semi-colony is, in Marxist theory, a country which is officially an independent and sovereign nation, but which is in reality very much dependent and dominated by another (imperialist) country (or, in some cases, several imperialist countries).\n\nThis domination could take different forms -\n\n\nThe term semi-colony is often used interchangeably with \"neo-colony\". Some semi-colonies never had much of a colonial administration before they became formally sovereign states, but most of them did. Some semi-colonies were \"settler colonies\" attracting large numbers of foreign immigrants, while in other semi-colonies the indigenous population always remained the vast majority.\n\nThe relationship between the semi-colony and the country (or countries) dominating it is said to benefit: \n\nThe semi-colonial situation however disadvantages the working majority of the population, insofar as balanced economic development is impossible - only those industries are developed which benefit foreign investors or which benefit the export trade (usually extractive and agricultural industries).\n\nThe class structure of a typical semi-colony features a large mass of peasants and unemployed, a relatively small urban working class and middle class, a strong landowning class, and an urban comprador bourgeoisie.\n\nMany semi-colonies in Africa, Asia and Latin America are, according to some Marxists, dominated by the imperialist countries which once colonised them, or by other imperialist powers. Some countries may never have been a colony but are nonetheless dominated by a superpower such as the United States or they were formerly dominated by the Soviet Union.\n\nMarxists regard semi-colonies differently from what they regard as genuinely independent nations, and will often support a semi-colony in a struggle against its dominating power, reasoning that it will help resolve the national question and thus promote class struggle.\n\nThe concept of a semi-colony originated in the earlier years of the Communist International, which initially classified the countries of the world as being either imperialist countries, semi-colonies, and colonies. From that definition followed a political strategy for the labour movement in each type of country (for example as regards nationalisation of industry, workers' rights, democratisation, the ownership of land). The general perspective of the Communist International was that it was \"impossible\" for semi-colonial countries to achieve substantive industrialisation and transform property relations without a socialist and democratic revolution. In other words, the power of semi-colonial elite had to be overthrown by the workers and peasants, to liberate the country from its client-relationship with foreign powers, and make comprehensive local economic development possible.\n\nThe category of \"intermediate countries\" was introduced in the later 1920s. Thus, for example, at the 15th Congress of the CPSU in 1927, Stalin stated: “Judge for yourselves. Of the 1,905 million inhabitants of the entire globe, 1,134 million live in the colonies and dependent countries, 143,000,000 live in the U.S.S.R., 264,000,000 live in the intermediate countries, and only 363,000,000 live in the big imperialist countries, which oppress the colonies and dependent countries.” \n\nThe term \"semi-colony\" has continued to be used particularly in the Maoist movement, for instance, all three of the Shining Path, Communist Party of India (Maoist) and the Communist Party of the Philippines characterize their respective countries as \"semi-colonies\".\n\nHowever, with the expansion of the world market and globalisation especially from the 1970s onwards, the \"semi-colonial\" status of particular countries became more ambiguous because a number of them were able to industrialise to a significant extent so that they became at least \"semi-industrialised\" countries. They gained somewhat more financial, political and cultural autonomy, and in some cases, the local elite became a major foreign investor in its own right. On the other side, it was no longer very clear that they were under the control of another foreign country, rather than being dominated by a bloc of several wealthier countries, or by international financial institutions.\n\nThis raised the question of whether the concept of a \"semi-colony\" is still relevant. Whatever the case, the definition of a country as a semi-colony as such refers to specific analysis of its place in the world economy and world trade, as well as its local political and economic culture.\n\nSome Trotskyist groups, such as the League for a Fifth International interpret Lenin's analysis of imperialism in a way which defines the vast majority of states in the world as semi-colonies, including all of Eastern Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15155583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15155583", "title": "Slate (elections)", "text": "Slate (elections)\n\nA slate is a group of candidates that run in multi-seat or multi-position elections on a common platform.\nThe common platform may be because the candidates are all members of a political party, have the same or similar policies, or some other reason.\n\nThe United States presidential elections use an electoral college to determine the winner and the electors are chosen by popular vote in each state. In most states, voters choose a slate of electors who support one of the candidates, although this may not be obvious to the voter at the time.\n\nIn states whose state legislatures are elected from multi-member districts, it is common for groups of candidates to form slates in primary and general elections. Elections to the Maryland General Assembly are a prime example, with most districts electing one member of the Maryland Senate and three members of the Maryland House of Delegates. Candidates for senator and delegate (usually incumbents) often join together prior to the primary election, registering their slates as separate campaign committees to enable them to raise funds separately. They are commonly called \"Leadership Teams\".\n\nMost student unions in the United Kingdom have the places on their executive committee elected simultaneously, but separately. Groups of candidates may run together so as each candidate can campaign for themselves and the other members on the slate at the same time, thereby increasing the election material and manpower available to the group. Slates can be political (e.g. Stop the War) or non-political. However some students' unions ban the use of slates in their elections.\n\nUnusual among western democracies, Canada's major federal and provincial political parties do not have municipal wings. While some of Canada's biggest cities, such as Montreal and Vancouver, have permanent political parties that have been a \"slate\". For members of a slate, this usually means not running against each other for the same office, purchasing advertising materials together and possibly agreeing to vote together on some issues if elected. Slates differ from political parties in that they are usually temporary arrangements that last for the election campaign only, and they have no annual meetings, headquarters or volunteers.\n\nThe use of slates by students to collectively get elected to student union positions is common. Slates are often a controversial feature of student politics in Canada, with many student associations wavering between full recognition of them to outright banning them. In bigger student unions where slates are tolerated, it is not uncommon to see these slates take on party-like features to entertain multi-year success.\n\nDifferent campuses in North America are seen having groups of students creating political agendas in order to run the campus in a specific way.\n\nPolitical parties and coalitions employ slates in elections with multiple winners. For the nationally-elected Senate, parties and coalitions draw up 12-person slates, as there are 12 seats being contested. The same is true for local legislatures, depending on how many seats are up, where elections are done via plurality-at-large voting. Parties and coalitions issue sample ballots to prospective voters that show the candidates in their respective slates, from the Senate up to the Sangguniang Bayan (municipal council) level, encourage voters to \"vote straight\" their respective slates.\n\nIn Russia, using slates in parliamentary elections was banned in 2007, but in municipal elections they still can be used.\n\nElections to the Knesset, Israel's unicameral legislature, are held under a closed-list party-list proportional representation system, which means that votes are cast for a slate of candidates running under the banner of a Political Party. Similarly to the US electoral college, the actual identities of all candidates is not obvious to the voters - the ballot design only lists the Party's name and electoral symbol, and campaigning mainly revolves around the party leaders, as the Prime Minister would almost always be appointed from among them.\n"}
{"id": "219177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219177", "title": "Social conservatism", "text": "Social conservatism\n\nSocial conservatism is the belief that society is built upon a fragile network of relationships which need to be upheld through duty, traditional values and established institutions. This can include moral issues. Social conservatism is generally skeptical of social change, and believes in maintaining the status quo concerning social issues such as family life, sexual relations, and patriotism.\n\nSocial conservatism encompasses a range of what may be thought of as reactionary positions on social issues. It developed as a reaction to what was perceived as dangerous tendencies within the liberal movements toward political radicalism and a wholesale rejection of \"traditional values\". In North America, since the mid to late 20th century, social conservatism arose as a response to federal action on social issues—such as LGBT rights and abortion—which members perceived as a threat to conservative values. Social conservatives also value the influence of religion in the public square, thus supporting state Churches or accommodationism, while opposing secularism and state atheism.\n\nThere is no necessary link between social and fiscal conservatism; some social conservatives such as George W. Bush and Michael Gerson are otherwise apolitical, centrist or liberal on economic and fiscal issues. Social conservatives may sometimes support economic intervention where the intervention serves moral or cultural aims. Many social conservatives support a balance between fair trade and a free market. This concern for material welfare, like advocacy of traditional mores, will often have a basis in religion. Examples include the Christian Social Union of Bavaria, the Family First Party and Katter's Australian Party, and the communitarian movement in the United States.\n\nThere is more overlap between social conservatism and paleoconservatism, in that they both have respect for traditional social forms.\n\nMost Muslim countries are socially and morally conservative (such as Sudan, Malaysia and Gambia) due to their interpretation of Islamic law also known as Shariah.\n\nArab world\n\nThe Arab world has been historically conservative in social and moral issues due to the strong influence of Islam. All Arab countries have strong censorship laws against illicit and immoral content.\n\nArab States of the Persian Gulf\n\nSaudi Arabia is the home of Islam and its two holy shrines, the king's (Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud) title is \"Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques\". Saudi Arabia's role in the Islamic world enforces it to adhere to strict interpretation of Islam, of which it follows the most strict madhab of Islamic jurisprudence imam Hanbal.\n\nHindu social conservatism\n\nHindu social conservatism in India in the twenty first century has developed into an influential movement. Represented in the political arena by the right-leaning Bharatiya Janata Party and far-right wing Shiv Sena. Hindu social conservatism, also known as the Hindutva movement, is spearheaded by the voluntary non-governmental organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The core philosophy of this ideology is nativism and sees Hinduism as a national identity rather than a religious one. Due to inclination towards nativism, much of its platform is based on the belief that Islamic and Christian denominations in India are the result of occupations, and therefore these groups should not receive concessions from the state. In terms of political positions, Hindu social conservatives in India seek to institutionalise a Uniform Civil Code (which is also a directive under Article 44 of the Constitution of India) for members of all religions, over the current scheme of different personal laws for different religions. For instance, polygamy is legal for Muslims in India but not Hindus.\n\nMuslim social conservatism\n\nThere are several socially conservative Muslim organisations in India, ranging from groups such as the Indian Union Muslim League which aim to promote the preservation of Indian Muslim culture as a part of the nation's identity and history, to radical organisations such as the Mujahadeen and Lakshar-E-Taiba which aim to eradicate all other religions in South Asia.\n\nIn Canada, social conservatism, though widespread, is not as prominent in the public sphere as in the United States. It is prevalent in all areas of the country but is seen as being more prominent in rural areas. It is also a significant influence on the ideological and political culture of the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia as they were largely settled by American immigrants in the 19th century. \n\nCompared to social conservatism in the United States, social conservatism has not been as influential in Canada. The main reason is that the neoliberal or neoconservative style of politics as promoted by leaders such as former Liberal Party of Canada Prime Minister Paul Martin and Former Conservative Party of Canada Prime Minister Stephen Harper have focused on economic conservatism, with little or no emphasis on moral or social conservatism. Without a specific, large political party behind them, social conservatives have divided their votes and can be found in all political parties. In fact, many Canadian politicians who hold socially conservative views on a personal level often choose not to pursue them in their political life, including Former Prime Minister Stephen Harper.\n\nSocial conservatives often felt that they were being sidelined by officials in the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada and its leadership of so-called \"Red Tories\" for the last half of the twentieth century and therefore many eventually made their political home with parties such as the Social Credit Party of Canada and the Reform Party of Canada. Despite the Reform Party being dominated by social conservatives, leader Preston Manning, seeking greater national support for the party, was reluctant for the party to wholly embrace socially conservative values. This led to his deposition as leader of the party (now called Canadian Alliance) in favor of social conservative Stockwell Day. The party's successor, the Conservative Party of Canada, despite having a number of socially conservative members and cabinet ministers, has chosen so far not to focus on socially conservative issues in its platform. This was most recently exemplified on two occasions in 2012 when the current Conservative Party of Canada declared they had no intention to repeal same-sex marriage or abortion laws.\n\nSocial conservatism had a huge place in Apartheid South Africa ruled by the National Party. Television in South Africa was not introduced until 1976 out of fear that it would reduce the influence of Afrikaans. Pornography, gambling and other activities that were deemed undesirable were severely restricted. The majority of businesses were forbidden from doing business on Sunday. Abortion was illegal, except in case of rape, and danger to the mother's life. Sex education was also restricted.\n\nDespite the legalisation of same-sex marriage and polygamy, in modern-day South Africa, the population remains socially conservative on issues such as homosexuality with 80% of the population against homosexuality.\n\nSocial conservatism in the United States is a right-wing political ideology that opposes social progressivism. It is centered on the preservation of what adherents often call 'traditional' or 'family values', though the accepted aims of the movement often vary amongst the organisations it comprises, making it hard to generalise about ideological preferences. There are, however, a number of general principles to which at least a majority of social conservatives adhere, such as opposition to abortion and opposition to same-sex marriage.\n\nThe Republican Party is the largest political party with socially conservative ideals incorporated into its platform. Other socially conservative parties include the Constitution Party and the Prohibition Party.\n\nSocial conservatives are strongest in the South, where they are a mainstream political force with aspirations to translate those ideals using the party platform nationally. In recent years, the supporters of social conservatism played a major role in the political coalitions of Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11040697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040697", "title": "Thin blue line", "text": "Thin blue line\n\nThe Thin Blue Line is a phrase used by law enforcement. The phrase refers figuratively to the position of law enforcement in society as a bulwark between order and anomie, or between criminals and the potential victims of crime.\n\nThe term began as an allusion to the famous Thin Red Line, when a British regiment held off a Russian cavalry charge during the Crimean War in 1854.\n\nThe term is derived from the Thin Red Line, a formation of the 93rd Highland Regiment of Foot of the British Army at the Battle of Balaclava in 1854, in which the Highlanders stood their ground against a Russian cavalry charge. This action was widely publicized by the press and became one of the most famous of the Crimean War.\n\nThe first known use of the phrase \"thin blue line\" is from a 1911 poem by Nels Dickmann Anderson, titled \"The Thin Blue Line.\" In the poem, the phrase is used to refer to the United States Army, alluding to the Thin Red Line, and to the fact that US Army soldiers wore blue uniforms from the eighteenth century through the nineteenth century.\n\nIt is unknown when the term was first used to refer to police. In the 1950s, LAPD Chief Bill Parker used the phrase in the department-produced television show of the same name. Parker coined the term thin blue line to further reinforce the role of the LAPD. As Parker explained, the thin blue line, representing the LAPD, was the barrier between law and order and social and civil anarchy. \n\nThe OED records its use in 1962 by the \"Sunday Times\" referring to police presence at an anti-nuclear demonstration. The phrase is also documented in a 1965 pamphlet by the Massachusetts government, referring to its state police force, and in even earlier police reports of the NYPD. By the early 1970s, the term had spread to police departments across the United States.\n\nUse of the term became especially widespread following the release of Errol Morris' 1988 documentary film \"The Thin Blue Line\", about the murder of a Dallas Police officer Robert W Wood. Judge Don Metcalfe, who presided over the trial of Randall Adams, states in the film that prosecutor \"Doug Mulder's final argument was one I'd never heard before: about the 'thin blue line' of police that separate the public from anarchy.\" The judge admitted to being deeply moved by the prosecutor's words, though the trial resulted in a wrongful conviction and death sentence.\n\nProponents say that the idea behind the various graphics that incorporate a thin blue line is that law enforcement is a Thin Blue Line that stands between chaos and order or between criminals and the potential victims of crime, and it is primarily used to show solidarity with police. Opponents note that the representations of the public and the criminals as black bars on either side of the blue line are identical, and suggest that the symbology represents a police vs. everyone else mindset.\n\nVarious emblems portraying a Thin Blue Line have been made, including a horizontal thin blue line across a Union Jack rendered in black and white in the United Kingdom, or on a black and white American flag in the United States. The sale of badges and bracelets with these emblems has been used to raise money for families of police officers that have died in the line of duty.\n\nDue to the popularity of Thin Blue Line phrase for law enforcement, other various groups have derived their own \"thin line\" terms and emblems to represent themselves. Most notably, in the United States, the term The Thin Red Line has been adopted by firefighters as an analogy to the Thin Blue Line, despite the phrase originally referring to the British Army.\n\nThe \"Thin Blue Line\" has been controversial in both the US and the UK.\n"}
{"id": "45455810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45455810", "title": "United Democratic Sabah People's Power Party", "text": "United Democratic Sabah People's Power Party\n\nThe United Democratic Sabah Peoples Power Party (, abbreviated SETIA) was a political party in Malaysia. It changed its name to Malaysian United People's Party (MUPP) or Parti Bersatu Sasa Malaysia (BERSAMA) after it extends to Peninsular Malaysia on 23 March 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "26292020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26292020", "title": "Vertical dyad linkage theory", "text": "Vertical dyad linkage theory\n\nThe Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory is a theory that deals with the individual dyadic relationships formed between leaders and their subordinates. It is also widely known as The Leadership-Member Exchange (LMX) Theory. Originally, the theory has been developed by Fred Dansereau, George Graen and William J. Haga, in 1975.\n\nThe theory focuses on types of leader-subordinate relationships which are further classified into subgroups, namely the in-group and the out-group. The in-group consists of members that receive greater responsibilities and encouragement, and are able to express opinions without having any restrictions. Their ideas are frequently considered by the leader, to the extent of being influenced in his decision-making process. Additionally, the in-group members are able to obtain more access to resources. Researchers' findings reveal that forming relationships between the leader and in-group individuals supports the process of procuring and exchanging information within the team or the entire organisation, due to the absence of communication barriers, such as the personality differences that exist between the manager and the out-group members. The out-group relationship is more formal, being based on the contract of employment. Members that belong to this category are generally disfavoured by the leader. Thus, their viewpoints and ideas are less likely to be accepted. Furthermore, they may not have full access to resources and are allocated fewer responsibilities that rank lower on the subject of importance.\n\nIn the Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory, the relationship between the manager and the subordinates is constructed in three stages.\n\nIn the first stage, individuals become members of the team and meet their leader. A principal activity carried out by the leader is describing his expectations to the subordinates, with regards to the way they should undertake their individual responsibilities and carry out their roles. Furthermore, it is the stage that represents an opportunity for the subordinates to demonstrate their qualities, by putting into practice their set of skills and using their knowledge. In addition, the leader observes and analyses how capable are the team members, what abilities they have and how they are able to contribute to the team in order to have a successful outcome.\n\nIn the Role-taking part, both the leader and the members are able to state their general beliefs, as well as \"understand how the other views and desires respect.\"(Djawijah, S. 2013. \"Lmx leader\" [online]. LinkedIn Corporation. Available from: http://www.slideshare.net/djawijah/lmx-leader. [Accessed 2 November 2015]).\n\nThe new members of the team are integrated within the team by starting to work with existent members, as part of the second phase. The Role-making stage represents the occasion to prove their work ethics, by fully contributing with ideas and research to the project that has been set. The members also demonstrate their capability to closely collaborate with the other individuals from the team, as well as how reliable and devoted they are to the leader. Hence, it represents the most opportune stage for the leader to determine how the members will be segregated into the two subgroups. Evidently, the members that have the most input and are assimilated to the leader, will be part of the in-group. Nevertheless, in cases of being disloyal to the leader, the individuals that have been categorised in the in-group are very likely to be asserted to the out-group. Team members can also be assigned to the out-group if they are proven to be inefficient and unambitious, negatively impacting the execution of the project.\n\nRoutines amongst the members and the leader are likely to occur in the final stage. In order to continue to be perceived as excellent team members by the leader, the in-group individuals display admiration, reliance and perseverance. Furthermore, \"mutual and high quality leader and subordinate exchanges\" (Ngo, D. 2012. \"LMX Presentation\" [online]. LinkedIn Corporation. Available from: http://www.slideshare.net/gutierrezdaisy/lmx-presentation?related=1. [Accessed 2 November 2015]) take place, developing the relationships within the team. The organisation environment can be improved by the exchanges that take place at this stage, as they lead to modernization and generally a more positive workplace. In a study of individuals at the workplace carried out by Erdogan, Bauer and Walter (2015), it is discussed that the in-group members, who experience high-quality exchanges with the leader, are very likely to be solicited by the other team members, which belong to the out-group. The reason for this is that in-group members are strongly connected to the manager. As a result, the out-group individuals establish further relationships with the in-group, in order to reach the leader easier and ultimately communicate more effectively with him. As the out-group members establish positive relationships with the manager, this may represent a method of being able to exit their subgroup and become part of the in-group. (Erdogan B, Bauer T., Walter J. 2015. Deeds that help and words that hurt: Helping and gossip as moderators of the relationship between leader-member exchange and advice network centrality. \"Personnel Psychology.\" 68. p. 185-214). Ultimately, the out-group individuals can understand how the leader favours the team members and may feel dissatisfied with his leadership style. Therefore, they may have the desire to leave the team or the current workplace.\n\nThe leader focuses on several factors upon the establishment of the in-group and the out-group. Members are observed and categorized based on their characteristics, how effective is their collaboration with the leader, their achievements and how they take on responsibilities. Moreover, if common traits are identified between a member and the leader, it is most probable that the respective member will be assigned to the in-group. A wide array of common traits are considered acceptable by the leader, from personal characteristics and work style, to level of creativity and interests. Researchers have discovered that the allocation of members into the in-group and out-group can further depend on race, sex, ethnicity or religion. The outcome of the relationships between the leader and the subordinates is impacted by the latter factors. In this manner, if resemblance in the factors is identified, the relationships are more likely to be positive and prosperous.\n\nWhile the theory is adopted in various organisations, there are multiple benefits and downsides of putting it into practice. Extended explanations of how the Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory can positively impact the communication within the team or how inequality may arise, can be found below.\n\nThe most benefits are experienced by the in-group members, as they are favoured by their leader. The individuals that belong to the in-group are often providing guidance and assist the leader. Thus, the leader is able to understand that the in-group subordinates are devoted and demonstrate competency in the decision-making process. In addition, due to their engaging behaviour and full participation in completing their tasks and responsibilities, the in-group members have high chances of receiving more positive comments, following the evaluation of their performance, executed by the leader. However, there are tendencies of amplifying the assessment results of the in-group individuals even in various cases of less satisfactory work outcomes. Fundamentally, the leader may overestimate the work quality presented by the in-group members, as a result of their existent solid connections. On the other hand, it is possible for the member to discover that the leader does not display similar personal traits. As a result, the subordinate may assess the relationship at a lower quality (Huang, Wright, Chiu, & Wang, 2008).\n\nFurthermore, the theory can be easily applied in real life situations at the workplace. The manager of the team has the ability to identify the personal characteristics of each in-group and out-group individual, as well as the work principles they adhere to. Differences between the leader's and the subordinates' behaviour and mentality can potentially be determined since the first social interaction opportunities occur. As a result, the segregation of the team members into the two subgroups represents an uncomplicated process. In addition, the application of the Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory is likely to improve \"mutual trust, confidence, job satisfaction, organizational commitment, common bonds, open communication, independence, respect, rewards & recognition.\" (Babou, S. 2008. \"Leader-Member Exchange (LMX) Theory\" [online]. Automattic Inc. Available from: https://leadershipchamps.wordpress.com/tag/vdl-theory/. [Accessed 1 November 2015]).\n\nFinally, the communication aspect of a team is developed succeeding the application of the theory. Essentially, the interaction between the manager and the in-group subordinates becomes more effective and abundant once the division of the subgroups has been carried out. In the case that the Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory is not put into practice, the communication amongst the entire team is prone to remaining formal. Hence, the possibility of developing close relationships exists at a minimum level. This can further impact the performance of the team to the extent of inferior work quality, lack of loyalty and negligence of responsibilities.\n\nThe core of the theory focuses on the construction of the in-group and out-group. As the allocation of the individuals into the respective subgroups is executed on the basis of several factors such as gender, ethnicity or achievements, the theory can be perceived as being discriminating. The separation of the subgroups that is based on the respective factors encourages the team individuals to have expectations of how each subgroup is likely to achieve. The performance can vary between working at a high competitive level and giving unsatisfactory input. Ultimately, this segregation method can negatively impact the behaviour and outcome of the team. Moreover, \"it is often hard to convince that such segregation is indeed intended to promote organizational citizenship of the out-group and would not be used for any other purpose.\" (G.A. 2009. \"Leader Member Exchange\" [online]. Practical Management. Available from: http://www.practical-management.com/Leadership-Development/Leader-Member-Exchange.html [Accessed 1 November 2015]).\n\nAnother disadvantage represents the lack of equality within the team. The in-group individuals receive full attention from the leader, especially when contributing with opinions and suggestions upon the completion of work duties. As a result, the in-group is likely to provide more positive outcomes and a greater amount of work. Furthermore, due to the demonstration of the abilities they own, special treatment such as job promotion is applied for the in-group members. On the other hand, the out-group individuals and the leader do not exchange information and ideas frequently, due to absence of attention, leading to less successful communication. Hence, the individuals from the two subgroups are not treated similarly, nor are given identical opportunities to prove their capabilities at the workplace. This can potentially occur even in situations that demonstrate out-group individuals have expanded their knowledge and set of skills while working in the team.\n\nWriter Gupta Ashim has published several arguments on the possibility of developing The Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory. The arguments concentrate on four elements: determining the out-group, investigating the level of determination, eliminate the lack of ambition and establish collaborations.\n\nThe out-group of the team must be established by the leader. An assessment of the out-group individuals' accomplishments can be carried out. The development of the assessment may include the work methods used by the out-group subordinates in other organisations, in order to complete daily tasks. Furthermore, the leader should display interest in finding the personal traits and features of the individuals, gaining an understanding of their passions and mindset. As a result of the in-depth analysis of the out-group, more balance between the subgroups is created.\n\nAnother method of enhancement consists of creating a mentoring programme. It allows the leader and the subordinate to communicate in different circumstances, suitable for exploring the subordinate's professional objectives and what type of work assignments he favours. Essentially, a mentoring meeting represents an opportunity for a closer communication. While one of the purposes of this method is to understand the readiness of the subordinate in carrying out supplementary duties, it also provides feedback for the leader, guiding him on whether he should continue using the current style of leadership or further improve it.\n\nThe elimination of de-motivation results in a more equilibrated theory. Several ways to reach a high level of enthusiasm within the team are by continuing to concentrate on the leader-subordinate interaction, by identifying similarities between the leader and the subgroup individuals and by producing concise tasks, as well as clearly stating the expected outcome.\n\nFinally, close cooperation between the leader and the team members is encouraged. This is reached more effectively while the role-routinization stage is in progress, due to the demonstration of reliance and trustworthy connections that have been developed.\n\nThe principle of the Vertical Dyad Linkage Theory is that in a team-based project, the manager forms distinctive relationships with his subordinates. Team members that display a similar behaviour as the leader are categorised as in-group individuals, whereas the rest of the members are part of the out-group, having difficulties in creating a close relationship with their manager.\n\nIn order to establish the subgroups, the leader takes into account elements such as gender and ethnicity, as well as their behaviour and the enthusiasm for extra duties.\n\nThe theory can be applied quickly, as the leader observes the team members' attitude and style from the first interaction. Leader-member relationships are simply established based on three stages: role-making, role-taking and role-routinization. Each stage allows the relationships to be further developed and have a positive impact upon the communication aspect and completion of tasks.\n\nA couple of techniques can be implemented in order to improve the theory. Activities such as evaluating the subordinates' previous achievements and introducing mentorship support the process of forming positive connections between individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "25126394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25126394", "title": "Water cascade analysis", "text": "Water cascade analysis\n\nWater cascade analysis (WCA) is a technique to calculate the minimum flowrate target for feedwater and wastewater for continuous water-using processes.\n\nIt is a tabular and numerical alternative to the water surplus diagram in Water Pinch which can be used to identify opportunities for reduction in feedwater usage and the design of water distribution networks. The WCA is done in three steps, a global analysis of water distribution and consumption in the network, establishing baseline minimum water targets and redesign of the water network to achieve these targets.\n\nWCA was first introduced by Manan, Tan and Foo in 2004. Since then, it has been widely used as a tool for water conservation in industrial process plants. A Time dependent water cascade analysis was presented later on. A variation of the WCA is the gas cascade analysis (GCA).\n\n"}
{"id": "10811807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10811807", "title": "Water politics in the Nile Basin", "text": "Water politics in the Nile Basin\n\nThe Nile river is subject to political interactions. It is the world's longest river flowing 6,700 kilometers through ten countries in northeastern Africa – Rwanda, Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), \nTanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Sudan and Egypt with varying climates. \n\nConsidering the basin area of the Nile, Sudan has the largest size (1.9 million km²) whereas, of the four major tributaries to the Nile, three originate from Ethiopia – the Blue Nile, Sobat and Atbara. The modern history of hydropolitics in the Nile basin is very complex and has had wide ramifications both for regional and global developments.\n\nThe following table sort of demonstrates the water availability in each country within the Nile basin, and researchers' estimates of decrease in water availability to these countries, due largely to an increase in the countries' populations.\n\nSudan also has hydraulic potential and has created four dams in the last century. This has resulted in the development so far of 18,000 km² of irrigated land, making Sudan the second most extensive user of the Nile, after Egypt.\n\nWhile Egypt is highly dependent on the Nile, there are factors that may lead to the necessity of conflict over the distribution of the Nile's water supply. For example, Egypt has such an agriculturally-dependent economy. Further, Egypt is already dependent on virtual water imports, a strategy which may lead that country to attempt future water conflicts. Ethiopia's tributaries supply about 86 percent of the waters of the Nile. Egypt has historically threatened war on Ethiopia and Tanzania over the Nile river. Egypt armed Somali separatist rebels in Ethiopia during and since the Somalia invasion of Ethiopia in the 1970s. Over the years, the involved states have put agreements and treaties into place so that conflict can be controlled.\n\nEgyptian civilization has sustained itself utilizing water management and agriculture for some 5,000 years in the Nile River valley. The Egyptians practiced basin irrigation, a form of water management adapted to the natural rise and fall of the Nile River. Since around 3000 BCE, the Egyptians constructed earthen banks to form flood basins of various sizes that were regulated by sluices to floodwater into the basin where it would sit until the soil was saturated, the water was then drained, and crops planted. This method of agriculture did not deplete the soil of nutrients or cause salinization problems experienced by modern agricultural methods.\n\nIn 1875, the Conservative government of Benjamin Disraeli bought the indebted Egyptian ruler Ismail's 44% shareholding in the Suez Canal for £4 million to secure control of this strategic waterway, a channel for shipping between the United Kingdom and India since its opening six years earlier under Emperor Napoleon III. Joint Anglo-French financial control over Egypt ended in outright British occupation in 1882. In 1898, the British reconquered Sudan, cleared vegetation along the Nile River and created alternative drainage paths to divert water and improve flow.\n\nTreaties have resulted in inequitable rights to the use of Nile water between the countries of the Nile Basin.\n\n\n\"To the Italian government: The fact that you have come to an agreement, and the fact that you have thought it necessary to give us a joint notification of that agreement, make it clear that your intention is to exert pressure, and this in our view, at once raises a previous question. This question which calls for preliminary examination, must therefore be laid before the League of Nations.\"\n\"To the British government: The British Government has already entered into negotiations with the Ethiopian Government in regard to its proposal, and we had imagined that, whether that proposal was carried into effect or not, the negotiations would have been concluded with us; we would never have suspected that the British Government would come to an agreement with another Government regarding our Lake.\"\n\nWhen an explanation was required from the British and the Italian governments by the League of Nations, they denied challenging Ethiopia’s sovereignty over Lake Tana. Not withstanding, however there was no explicit mechanism enforcing the agreement. A reliable and self-enforcing mechanism that can protect the property rights of each stakeholder is essential if the principle of economically and ecologically sustainable international water development is to be applied.\n\n\nIn effect, this agreement gave Egypt complete control over the Nile during the dry season when water is most needed for agricultural irrigation. It also severely limits the amount of water allotted Sudan and provides no water to any of the other riparian states.\n\n\nThe Nile Basin Initiative (NBI) is a partnership among the Nile Riparian states that “seeks to develop the river in a cooperative manner, share substantial socioeconomic benefits, and promote regional peace and security”. It was formally launched in February 1999 by the water ministers of 9 countries that share the river – Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo with Eritrea as an observer.\n\n\n\nDuring the colonial period, Britain effectively controlled the Nile through its military presence in Africa. Since Sudanese independence, Sudan has renegotiated with Egypt over the use of the Nile waters. The 1959 agreement between Sudan and Egypt allocated the entire average annual flow of the Nile to be shared among the Sudan and Egypt at 18.5 and 55.5 billion cubic meters respectively, but ignored the rights to water of the remaining eight Nile countries. Ethiopia contributes 80% of the total Nile flow, but by the 1959 agreement is entitled to none of its resources. However, the agreement between Egypt and Sudan is not binding on Ethiopia as it was never a party to it. Since the early 1990s, Ethiopia has successfully countered Egyptian and Sudanese resistance to water development projects in Ethiopia to increase irrigation and hydroelectric potential. Since May 2010, Ethiopia and the other upper riparian states have launched the Nile Basin Cooperative Framework Agreement in a bid to ensure an equitable utilization between all the riparian states of the Nile.\n\nEgypt continues to be the primary user of Nile water. According to Swain and Fadel, political instability and poverty in the other nine riparian countries has limited their ability to move toward socioeconomic development of the Nile. According to Lemma, the greatest question facing the Nile riparian states is: Will the Nile Basin Initiative help them overcome the unjust and unequal distribution of Nile water resources? \n\nWhile most of the river’s water quality is within acceptable levels, there are several hot spots mostly found in the irrigation canals and drainages. Sources of pollutants are from agricultural, industrial, and household waste. There are 36 industries that discharge their pollution sources directly into the Nile, and 41 into irrigation canals. These types of industries are: chemical, electrical, engineering, fertilizers, food, metal, mining, oil and soap, pulp and paper, refractory, textile and wood. There are over 90 agricultural drains that discharge into the Nile that also include industrial wastewater. The water exceeds the European Community Standards of fecal contamination and there is a high salinization and saline intrusion in the delta. Salinization happens when there’s a buildup of salts in the soil. The soil cannot retain water which prevents anything from growing. Saline intrusion is when the ground is saturated with saltwater. The northeast Nile Delta region has a high incident rate of pancreatic cancer that is believed to be from high levels of heavy metals and organchlorine pesticides found in the soil and water. Exposure to cadmium is most commonly known through smoking, though it is believed that in this region, the exposure is from contact through the heavy metals and pesticides found in the soil and water. \nSchistosomiasis (a disease caused by parasitic worms) has been found in irrigation canals along with benthic cyanobacteria forming mats. \n\nAgriculture is the largest consumer of water in Egypt using about 85% of available water.\nDrainage water from the agricultural fields contains pollutants such as pesticide residues, toxic organic and inorganic pollutants, salts and treated and untreated domestic wastewater. In the East – Delta drains – Faraskour, Serw and Hadous, samples of the water contained high levels of hookworms and other intestinal helminth eggs.\nIn villages where the only available water is from irrigation canals, women use the water for domestic purposes and also dump the used water back into the drainages.\nIn some areas, low water levels do not reach the waterways, so farmers build illegal waterwheels to get the water up the canals to irrigate their land. Lack of drainage canals and the enforcement by officials to address these problems contribute to pollution of land and water. Villagers drinking polluted water have been affected with kidney and liver diseases.\nAnimal manure, dredged sediments from drains and sludge for fertilizer are leached and the contaminants are a major source of pollution. Agricultural drainage water reuse is used by farmers legally and illegally. Improper irrigation and lack of education on effective irrigation methods and crop production contributes to crop failure and polluting of canals. In areas where there is no formal operational structure for pumping water of individual diesel pumps, the tail-end users usually are not getting enough water to maintain crops.\n\nThere are twenty-five agencies, under seven ministries that are involved in maintaining water quality, yet their communication and data sharing between agencies is underdeveloped.\nWater user associations which are non-governmental associations of farmers who organize an irrigation process of all agricultural land, maintain diesel pumps and deal with conflicts between farmers and water management. They have been around since 1988, but have lacked structure and the inclusion of women. Women are seen as contributors to pollution of irrigation canals since they wash clothes, dishes and animals in the drainages. \nThe lack of planning and corruption within governmental departments, the neglecting of concerns and disbursement of low-quality land to the poor, and the improper education of safe handling methods and improper irrigation and crop management for men and women, all contribute to poor water quality. Though money is a major factor in improving these areas, in the case of erasing corruption and improving interdepartmental communication, stricter rules and enforcement of them is something that can be done immediately. Increasing Water User Associations (WUAs) and establishing a communication chain between these associations and government departments is recommended. Appointing field supervisors for designated areas to oversee WUAs and educate farmers on irrigation methods (like drip irrigation that applies water to the root zone which can reduce water use by 30 to 60 percent), effective water distribution during crop cycle, crop rotation and soil management. Field supervisors can also monitor water levels, check on the maintenance of pumps and report on drainage structures.\nThe World Bank has financed the agricultural drainage program in Egypt since 1970. This program equips agricultural land with subsurface drains. These drains are made of plastic pipes produced in government-owned plants in the Nile Valley and Delta. Landholders pay for the installation of drains on a 20-year interest-free annual installments. Subsurface drainage has shown to improve soil conditions and crop yield. Educating farmers on the functioning of these subsurface drainages are needed to prevent a disruption of water supply to all connected fields. Since these drainages cannot be seen on the surface, if a farmer closes a drain to keep more water in his field it will prevent water from reaching users beyond.\n\nSomaliland takes part Nile river solutions agricultural lands are not charged for water, but are for irrigation and drainage improvements, WUAs should be responsible for payment as it would produce a group responsibility of all members. Monitoring of water and soil quality should be left to the WUAs and reported to field supervisors which then report to the Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) office.\nSince the effort to produce clean water will take time, steps that can be taken as short-term results are: Tapping into shallow wells for drinking water obtained from fields and unlined canals; since the soil acts as a filter it can remove contaminants. Consulting with farmers when designing irrigation systems for optimal performance should be taken into consideration. (IWMI, 2006) Informing the public of safe handling of food methods, the use of manure and mulching crop residue, less evasive tillage and rotating crops that do not need the same nutrients to improve the soils ability to hold water, and switching to short duration crops to decrease water consumption is advised. Proper application of reused drainage water during a crops growth cycle is optimal.\nIn Giza, they have the largest governorate discharge of agricultural, industrial and domestic sewage that goes directly into the Nile through three drains without treatment. A solution is to construct three wastewater treatment plants with “activated sludge” and “high capacity”. “Activated sludge” is the cheapest technology that reduces \"E. coli\" and biological oxygen demand (BOD) concentrations and switching the Abu-Rawash treatment plant from primary to activated sludge.\nPublic and industrial awareness should also be promoted to reduce illegal dumping. Public awareness can help achieve efficient water usage and cleaner water. Increased monitoring of discharged areas and enforcing fines of illegal dumping should be integrated in already established government offices. Monitoring of these enforcements should be done by an outside source like the World Bank since they have provided Egypt with financing for improvements of water usage. If the World Bank finds the government has not enforced the established fines, then they can add exceptions to their loan agreements that would create incentives for enforcement of fines.\n\nSome scholars downplay the geopolitical importance of water. Jan Selby and Thomas Gnyra, for instance, argue that whilst oil has been a principal cause of regional economic growth, adequate water supply has been a product. Selby claims the 'water wars' is also weak in terms of failed forecasts, and that conflict in the last century was more often due to oil than water.\n\nOthers argue that there are more important foreign policy concerns than water, which relate to ideological, economic and strategic relations with neighbouring states (and with outside powers), and access to 'goods' such as foreign aid and investment, oil revenues and remittances, illegal economies and military hardware make water conflict a marginal concern.\n\n"}
