{"id": "53480533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53480533", "title": "2017 Census of Pakistan", "text": "2017 Census of Pakistan\n\nThe 2017 Census of Pakistan was a detailed enumeration of the Pakistani population which began on 15 March 2017 and ended on 25 May 2017. The census was conducted by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics for the first time in 21st century, after 19 years. Initial estimates would put the population at 20 crore (210–220 million). The provisional results were finally presented to the Council of Common Interests on August 25, 2017, and then approved and released to the public. The results showed a total population of Pakistan at 207,774,520 people. Pakistani general election, 2018 were held under new delimitation of constituencies as a result of 2017 Census of Pakistan.\n\nThe census was conducted by 91,000 enumerators from different government sectors, of which the Pakistan Army provided security with 200,000 personnel. The census recorded a total of 9 languages out of an estimated of 80 languages spoken in the country, and officially recognized transgender as a third gender.\n\nThe census was conducted in 2 phases. The first phase lasted from 15 March 2017 to 13 April 2017 and covered 63 districts of the country. The second phase began on 25 April 2017 and lasted until 24 May 2017 covering the remaining 88 districts. However, the census in the Islamabad Capital Territory and neighbouring districts of Attock and Rawalpindi, although included in the second phase, began on 30 March 2017 and concluded on 23 May 2017. Furthermore, for administrative purposes, the census in the Kech District of Balochistan was spread over both phases.\n\nThe provisional results of the 2017 Census were presented to the Council of Common Interests on 25 August 2017. According to the results, the total population in Pakistan was 207,774,520, representing a 57% increase in 19 years. The provisional results exclude data from Gilgit-Baltistan and Jammu & Kashmir, which is likely to be included in the final report in 2018. The urban population in Pakistan stood at 75,580,000 or 36.4% of the total population.\n\nThe population of 10 major cities of the country has increased by 74.4 per cent since 1998, when the last census was conducted, according to the data of recently concluded 6th Population and Housing Census 2017.\n\nThe total population of the 10 cities surged to 40,956,232 individuals as per the 2017 census from 23,475,067 registered during the 1998 census, the data revealed.\nTransgender rights campaigners have claimed the count of 10,418 transgender people nationally in the 2017 census significantly underestimates the size of Pakistan's transgender population. Mona Ali, who is a leader of a Lahore-based transgender rights group known as the Khawaja Sira Society, estimates there are 400,000 to 500,000 transgender people in the Punjab province alone. Bindya Rana, leader of the Karachi-based transgender rights group Jiya, estimates that there are 300,000 transgender people across Pakistan. The census identified transgender people according to their national identity cards, not accounting for those whose cards do not disclose their transgender status in order to avoid discrimination.\n\nThe Sindh Assembly refused to accept the results of the 2017 census, stating that millions of people were shown with double addresses and counted in their home provinces despite living and working in Sindh. In April 2018, Mustafa Kamal, chairman of the Pak Sarzameen Party and former Mayor of Karachi, challenged the results of the 2017 census in the Supreme Court, seeking a third-party audit of the national census. Kamal pleaded that records from the National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) showed the population of Karachi to be 20.15 million, rather than 16 million as shown in the census.\n\nShahab Uddin Khan, a Member of the National Assembly (MNA) from Bajaur Agency, has stated he believes that a large number of people displaced from the Mamund and Nawagai regions due to security operations have not been counted by the census. He has stated he intends to challenge the census in court. Bismillah Khan, an MNA from Bajaur Agency, has stated he believes the population of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas is double of what is reflected in the census. He added that he will take up the issue with the federal government along with other lawmakers. Sajid Hussain Turi, an MNA from Khyber Agency, claimed that more than three million people from FATA are living in other cities in the country due to military operations, and expressed concerned that developmental work in the region could be underfunded if the population is underestimated by the census.\n\nSyed Khurshid Ahmed Shah of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Leader of the Opposition in the National Assembly, questioned the provisional census results. He issued a statement demanding that data collected by the statistics division should be compared to data from the Pakistan Army. PPP leader Nawab Muhammad Yousuf accused authorities of doctoring the results, alleging that the population of Sindh had been intentionally underestimated by at least 10 million and the population of Punjab had been overestimated by 10 million. He described the results as an attempt to usurp the rights of Sindh. PPP Senator Mukhtiar Ahmed Dhamrah disputed the population of Karachi and Lahore reported in the preliminary results.\n\nBushra Gohar, leader of Awami National Party (ANP), pointed out in a tweet that the reported population of around 5 million for the Federally Administered Tribal Areas seems contradictory to the fact that there have been nearly 2 million internally displaced persons registered from North Waziristan alone.\n\nChief Census Commissioner Asif Bajwa rejected allegations that the census results had been manipulated and that the population of Karachi had been intentionally understated. He stated that the populations of Karachi and Lahore were counted as per the record of national identity cards and voter lists, and that the census data had already been verified with statistics recorded by the army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44512144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44512144", "title": "Abbe Smith", "text": "Abbe Smith\n\nAbbe Lyn Smith (born 1956) is an American criminal defense attorney and professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center. Smith is Director of the Criminal Defense and Prisoner Advocacy Clinic and Co-Director of the E. Barrett Prettyman Fellowship Program.\n\nBefore joining the faculty at Georgetown Law, Smith worked as a public defender in Philadelphia for many years and she was also on the faculty at Harvard Law School. Professor Smith regularly writes and comments on criminal defense, the criminal justice system, criminal prosecution, legal ethics, and juvenile justice. Smith wrote a memoir about her experience of helping Patsy Kelly Jarrett earn her freedom from a conviction for which Jarrett maintained her innocence.\n\nSmith earned a Bachelor of Arts from Yale College in 1978 and a law degree from the New York University School of Law in 1982. During her second year of law school at NYU—while working in the Prison Law Clinic with Professor Claudia Angelos—Smith began working on Patsy Kelly Jarrett's federal habeas corpus petition. In March 1977, a jury found Jarrett guilty of two counts of murder and two counts of robbery, but Jarrett maintained her innocence. Smith worked on Jarrett's case for the next 25 years. From 2005-2006, Smith was a Fulbright Program scholar at the University of Melbourne School of Law in Melbourne, Australia.\n\nAfter law school, Ms. Smith began work as an assistant public defender with the Defender Association of Philadelphia. She would later work as a member of the Special Defense Unit, and a Senior Trial Attorney. While working as a public defender in Philadelphia, Smith began working as a law professor, teaching criminal law at City University of New York Law School.\n\nIn 1990, Smith moved to Harvard Law School where she was Deputy Director of the Criminal Justice Institute, a clinical instructor in HLS' criminal defense clinic, and a lecturer on law in Harvard's Trial Advocacy Workshop. The Criminal Justice Institute is the curriculum-based criminal law clinical program of Harvard Law School.\n\nSmith joined the Georgetown University Law Center faculty in 1996. Professor Smith is the Director of the Criminal Defense and Prisoner Advocacy (CDPAC) Clinic.\n\nFrom 1994-2005, Smith was the attorney for Patsy Kelly Jarrett. Over the years, Smith contacted journalists, public relations firms and wrote about Kelly in law journals. In 2003, Smith convinced documentarian Ofra Bikel—who was working on a film about guilty pleas for the PBS television show Frontline—to include Jarrett in the documentary. The documentary aired in 2004. During a March 2005 review of the case, the members of the New York Parole Board watched Bikel's account of Jarrett's story, and she was released. \"Case of a Lifetime\" was a finalist in the 21st Lambda Literary Awards for best lesbian memoir/biography.\n\nIn 2010, she was elected to the American Board of Criminal Lawyers. She is also on the board at the Bronx defenders., and the National Juvenile Defender Center. In 2012, she was the recipient of the Legal Teaching Award from New York University School of Law. In 2015, Smith eulogized her friend and colleague Monroe Freedman.\n\nProfessor Smith writes and comments on criminal defense, the criminal justice system, criminal prosecution, legal ethics, and juvenile justice. Her scholarship has been cited in numerous opinions. In \"State v. Citizen\", The Supreme Court of Louisiana cited her scholarship on indigent defendants' right to appointed counsel under \"Gideon v. Wainwright\".\n\nProfessor Smith writes about representing unpopular clients. She wrote an opinion article in the Washington Post titled, \"What motivates a lawyer to defend a Tsarnaev, a Castro or a Zimmerman?\" Smith co-edited \"How Can You Represent Those People?\" with Monroe Freedman. In the book—a collection of essays—criminal defense lawyers and others share stories about how it feels to defend people accused of crimes ranging from the ordinary to the horrific. In a piece on Judy Clarke and representing unpopular clients, she remarked: \"Criminal defense is kind of a unique calling — not to sound pretentious — it takes a peculiar heart-set, mind-set to do the work for a career.\" She continued, \"We stand behind people who are often the most reviled.\" She discussed why lawyers defend monsters on MSNBC.\n\nIn \"Too Much Heart and Not Enough Heat: The Short Life and Fractured Ego of the Empathic, Heroic Public Defender,\" Smith writes about how one can sustain a career in indigent criminal defense. In order to do this, Smith recommends respect for clients, passion for the professional craft of defense lawyering, and a sense of outrage about the system. Smith writes about two former Prettyman fellows who left indigent criminal defense. Smith rejects Charles Ogletree's paradigm of public defenders as empathetic heroes.\n\nIn \"The Bounds of Zeal in Criminal Defense: Some Thoughts on Lynne Stewart,\" Smith discusses the conduct that led to Lynne Stewart's prosecution and her approach to lawyering generally. Smith examines whether Stewart's view of zeal and devotion is at odds with the prevailing ethics and ethos of defense lawyering. Smith finds it troubling when the government criminally prosecutes members of the defense bar, especially when it goes after lawyers who represent unpopular clients.\n\nSmith often writes about prosecutors. In \"Are Prosecutors Born or Made?,\" Smith writes about her encounters with prosecutors and countless conversations during the course of her thirty-year criminal law practice. In \"Can You Be a Good Person and a Good Prosecutor?,\" Smith examines the morality of prosecution. First, she explores the context of criminal lawyering at the millennium and what it means to prosecute under current conditions. Then, she discusses whether it is possible to do \"good\" in this context—that is, whether a well-intentioned prosecutor can temper the harsh reality of the criminal justice system—in view of the institutional and cultural pressures of prosecutor offices. Smith concludes by answering the question posed: she hopes so, but thinks not.\n\nIn \"A Call to Abolish Peremptory Challenges by Prosecutors,\" Smith argues that courts should acknowledge the unenforceability of \"Batson v. Kentucky\", the landmark United States Supreme Court case prohibiting prosecutors from excluding jurors in criminal cases based solely on race, and admit that the only way to end this insidious practice that leads to less diverse juries is to abolish peremptory challenges by prosecutors.\n\n"}
{"id": "24815778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24815778", "title": "Al-Mahdi Muhammad", "text": "Al-Mahdi Muhammad\n\nAl-Mahdi Muhammad bin Ahmed (October 27, 1637 – August 2, 1718), also known as \"Ṣāḥib al-Mawāhib\", was an Imam of Yemen who ruled in 1689–1718. He belonged to the Qasimid family that was descended from the Islamic prophet Muhammad and dominated the Zaidi imamate in 1597–1962.\n\nMuhammad was the son of the imam al-Mahdi Ahmad. When the latter died in 1681, Muhammad was prevented from succeeding him. When the next imam al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad II died in 1686, a struggle for the imamate broke out between various contenders for a period of three years. Muhammad claimed the imamate in Mansura, but was besieged by opposing relatives. However, he managed to break the siege and capture the enemy leaders. He was now generally acknowledged by the various parts of the country. He is known under the name \"Ṣāḥib al-Mawāhib\" because he kept his residence in al-Mawahib east of Dhamar.\n\nAl-Mahdi Muhammad was known to Zaidi historiography as a tough and arbitrary ruler who was unwilling to listen to advice. He exacted taxes that were not according to the shariah. On the other hand, he had an ascetic outward appearance and declined silk or fine cloths. His arbitrary killings of subjects gave rise to popular beliefs that his evil actions were influenced by a jinn. A French delegation met the imam in February 1712. The visitors described him as a man about 80 with handsome figure and countenance. He displayed very little pomp except when going to the Friday prayer; then he would be accompanied by 1,000 foot soldiers and 200 horsemen, together with mounted officers of the household and court.\n\nAfter the Jewish exiles had returned from their banishment to Mawza, Imam al-Mahdi Muhammad is said to have drawn the Jews near to himself, defended them and made it possible for them to return to their previous status.\n\nAl-Mahdi Muhammad's long reign was interspersed with internal rebellions and crises. In 1689 he attempted to win back Yafa in the east, which had been lost to the Zaidi state in the previous reign. The enterprise failed, however, and Yafa tribesmen raided Ibb in 1708. Sa'dah in the far north rebelled in 1691 under the emir Ali bin Ahmad bin al-Qasim. The emir led an army of tribesmen against San'a, but the siege was defeated. The imam's troops, in turn, conquered Sa'dah and forced Ali to flee. In 1699 a Sayyid, Ibrahim al-Mahatwari, rose against the imam. He was reputed to be a great magician, and his ecstatic followers defeated several of the imam's armies. Eventually he claimed to be the expected Mahdi of Shi'a belief. The imam's sons finally crushed the rebellion, and Ibrahim al-Mahatwari was killed. On the positive side, the reign of al-Mahdi Muhammad enjoyed some external prestige. In 1701-1702 he received envoys from Shah Abbas II of Persia and the Ottoman pasha in Jeddah. The soaring prices of coffee, which was still almost solely produced in Yemen, underpinned the resources and prestige of the imamate.\n\nTowards the end of al-Mahdi Muhammad's reign several persons rose and claimed the imamate, as a consequence of his highhanded governance and abuse of the laws. An al-Mu'ayyad al-Husayn was proclaimed imam in Sa'dah in 1709-1712, and in 1714 an al-Mutawakkil bin Ali briefly besieged the imam at al-Mawahib. In 1716 al-Mansur al-Husayn rebelled against al-Mahdi Muhammad and set forth his claim (da'wah) as king of the northern tribes in the strong fortress Shaharah. His call was heeded in a large part of Yemen. At that time, towns and villages in the outlying regions of Sana'a were attacked by hordes of pillaging armies from the north. Jewish houses in the newly built Jewish Quarter outside of Sana'a, \"Bir al-'Azab\", were ravaged. Al-Mahdi Muhammad sent his nephew al-Qasim to deal with the situation. After a lost battle, al-Qasim submitted to the pretender-imam. Al-Mahdi Muhammad was forced to yield, and his name was removed from the address in the Friday prayer. However, al-Qasim took the first opportunity to proclaim himself imam, as al-Mutawakkil al-Qasim, thus opposing al-Mansur al-Husayn. In this uneasy situation, the old al-Mahdi Muhammad died in 1718 while his residence al-Mawahib was under siege.\n\n"}
{"id": "3694874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694874", "title": "Amphidromia", "text": "Amphidromia\n\nThe Amphidromia (), in ancient Greece, was a ceremonial feast celebrated on the fifth or seventh day after the birth of a child.\n\nIt was a family festival of the Athenians, at which the newly born child was introduced into the family, and children of poorer families received their names. Wealthier families held a naming ceremony for their children on the tenth day called \"dekate\". This ceremony, unlike the Amphidromia, was open to the public by invitation. No particular day was fixed for this solemnity; but it did not take place very soon after the birth of the child, for it was believed that most children died before the seventh day, and the solemnity was therefore generally deferred till after that period, that there might be at least some probability of the child remaining alive.\n\nAccording to Suidas, the festival was held on the fifth day, when the women who had lent their assistance at the birth washed their hands, but this purification preceded the real solemnity. The friends and relations of the parents were invited to the festival of the amphidromia, which was held in the evening, and they generally appeared with presents, among which are mentioned the cuttlefish and the marine polyp. The house was decorated on the outside with olive branches if the child was a boy, or with garlands of wool if the child was a girl; and a repast was prepared, at which, if we may judge from a fragment of Ephippus of Athens in Athenaeus (ix. p. 370 ; comp. ii. p. 65), the guests must have been rather merry..\n\nThe child was then carried round the fire by the nurse, and thus, as it were, presented to the gods of the house and to the family, and at the same time received its name, to which the guests were witnesses. The carrying of the child round the hearth was the principal part of the solemnity, from which its name was derived. But the Scholiast on Aristophanes (\"Lysistr.\" 758) derives its name from the fact that the guests, whilst the name was given to the child, walked or danced around it.\n\nThis festival is sometimes called from the day on which it took place.\n\n"}
{"id": "12187328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12187328", "title": "Anti-Estonian sentiment", "text": "Anti-Estonian sentiment\n\nAnti-Estonian sentiment generally describes dislike or hate of the Estonian people or the Republic of Estonia. Its opposite is Estophilia.\n\nChristopher Walker and Robert Orttung allege that Kremlin-controlled sectors of the Russian media took advantage of anti-Estonian sentiment during Estonia's 2007 relocation of the Bronze Soldier, a Soviet-era monument to Russia's victory over Germany in the Second World War, originally called \"Monument to the Liberators of Tallinn\". At various times following Estonia's independence from the Soviet Union Russian national television has effectively shaped anti-Estonian sentiment with the state controlled media redoubling their anti-Estonian campaign after specific events that displease Moscow.\n\nAccording to Lilia Shevtsova, Senior Associate at the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program Chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, anti-Estonian sentiment was intentionally escalated by Kremlin in its \"search for enemies\", however she also notes that even Russian democrats took Estonia's removal of the statue immediately before one of the most respected and cherished dates in the Russian calendar, to be an affront to the Russian national honour.\n\nThe Russian government used its state controlled media to propagate anti-Estonian sentiment in order to encourage ethnic Russian outrage, leading to coordinated waves of cyber attacks against Estonian internet infrastructure. The President of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves stated at the time: \"We are witnesses to the information war against Estonia which already reminds of an ideological aggression\".\n\nAn anti-Estonian pejorative neologism, \"eSStonia\", appeared in the Russian media, on Runet, and at the street protests in the midst of the Bronze Soldier controversy in 2007. The term, a portmanteau of Estonia and SS, is intended to portray Estonia as a neo-Nazi state.\n\nIn April 2007, some participants in the protested outside the Embassy of Estonia in Moscow organized by the Russian youth organisation Nashi carried signs stating \"Wanted. The Ambassador of the Fascist State of eSStonia\" (), referring to the then-Ambassador of Estonia to Russia Marina Kaljurand. In May 2007, members of the Young Guard of United Russia picketed the Consulate-General of Estonia in Saint Petersburg holding up pickets with slogans such as \"eSStonia–the shame of Europe!\" (). The use of \"eSStonia\" in protests by Nashi and the Young Guard determined the head of the Saint Petersburg youth branch of Yabloko to file a complaint with Yury Chaika, the Prosecutor General of Russia, asking for an investigation into a possible breach of Article 282: Incitement of National, Racial, or Religious Enmity of the Criminal Code of Russia.\n\nIn November 2007, Komsomolskaya Pravda, the biggest selling daily newspaper in Russia, ran a campaign asking readers to boycott travel to Estonia, Estonian goods and services. The campaign run under the slogan \"I don't go to eSStonia\" (). The Economist, in its editorial, called the term \"a cheap jibe\" by spelling the country's name \"eSStonia\", President Ilves as \"IlveSS\" and Prime Minister Ansip as \"AnSSip\", while noting the coining of the term \"Nashism\" to describe what they regard as the populist, pro-authoritarian and ultra-nationalist philosophy of Nashi, a pro-Kremlin youth movement, as an encouraging countermeasure.\n\nIn 2007, as a response to the possibility of removal of World War II graves (in the context of the Bronze Soldier controversy) Russian State Duma issued a statement accusing \"the Estonian government's intention to continue its course of representing Nazism in a heroic light and justifying its ideology\".\nIn Russia, the youth movement Nashi has been noted for anti-Estonian sentiments among its members; often, it is framed as anti-fascism activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4756121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4756121", "title": "Assyrian-Canadians", "text": "Assyrian-Canadians\n\nAssyrian Canadians are Canadians of Assyrian descent or Assyrians who have Canadian citizenship. According to the 2011 Census there were 10,810 Canadians who claimed Assyrian ancestry, an increase compared to the 8,650 in the 2006 Census.\n\nThey are the indigenous \"pre-Arab\" and \"pre-Turkic\" people of Northern Iraq, southeast Turkey, northeastern Syria, and northwest Iran, who speak dialects of Eastern Aramaic and are mainly Christian, although some are irreligious. Although most come from the aforementioned countries, many Assyrians have immigrated to Canada from Jordan, Georgia and Armenia as well.\n\nMost Assyrians arrived in Canada due to both ethnic persecution and religious persecution, mainly from their ancient ancestral Assyrian homeland in northern Iraq, southeast Turkey, northeast Syria and northwest Iran. The migration to Canada may be broken up into a number of distinct periods: early settlement and the subsequent waves of migration sparked by the Assyrian genocide in present-day Turkey and Iran, the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and, more recently, the Iraq War and Syrian Civil War. The last 2006 Census Canada counted 8,650\n\nThe first period of known mass-migration came just after the Assyrian Genocide in the dying days of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. The second and perhaps largest wave of migration into came during the Iran–Iraq War. Under the shadow of war, Saddam Hussein's al-Anfal Campaign constituted a major force for migration for Iraq's Assyrian population.\n\n"}
{"id": "30292452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30292452", "title": "Australians in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Australians in Saudi Arabia\n\nAustralians in Saudi Arabia are a sizeable community consisting mainly of expatriates. Their population is estimated to be anywhere up to 5,000 with the majority based in major commercial centres such as Riyadh and Jeddah. Most Australian citizens in Saudi Arabia tend to be occupational-oriented and are employed mainly in the health, education, construction and technology sectors. There are approximately 1,000 Australians who live in Jeddah alone, a city which serves as the country's main port and economic hub. In addition, thousands of Australian Muslims travel and stay in Saudi Arabia each year, often intending to visit the two holiest cities of Islam, Mecca and Medina. Many expatriates in Saudi Arabia are attracted to what they refer to as \"the good life\", including large salaries and tax-free jobs, consistent weather and a comfortable social life within their housing compounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51995228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51995228", "title": "Canadians in Brazil", "text": "Canadians in Brazil\n\nA Canadian Brazilian () is a Brazilian person who is fully, partially or predominantly of Canadian descent, or a Canadian-born immigrant in Brazil. Many Canadians also travel to Brazil for work. From 1925–1968, over 11,631 Canadians had settled in Brazil.\nCanada has always had a significant relationship with Brazil since the 1800s. The countries have had extensive interactions in the financing of infrastructure projects, particularly utilities. Brazil is the largest recipient of Canadian investment in South America and until 1974 was the venue for the largest single Canadian foreign investment. In 1991, Canadian investment in Brazil totalled around CANS 2 billion.\n\nOne of the more interesting aspects of Canadian - Brazilian relations is the quiet nature of the relationship, and a lack of interest in this relationship on the part of scholars in particular and Canadians in general.\n\nTo a Canadian, Brazil has meant coffee and Carnival, while to a Brazilian 'Canada is sometimes seen as a remote northern country, a pale reflection of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14544912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14544912", "title": "Corfiot Italians", "text": "Corfiot Italians\n\nCorfiot Italians (or \"Corfiote Italians\") are a population from the Greek island of Corfu (Kerkyra) with ethnic and linguistic ties to the Republic of Venice. Their name was specifically established by Niccolò Tommaseo during the Italian Risorgimento. During the first half of the 20th century, Mussolini (whose fascist regime promoted the ideals of Italian irredentism) successfully used the Corfiot Italians as a pretext to occupy Corfu twice.\n\nThe origins of the Corfiot Italian community can be found in the expansion of the Italian States toward the Balkans during and after the Crusades. In the 12th century, the Kingdom of Naples sent some Italian families to Corfu to rule the island. From the Fourth Crusade of 1204 onwards, the Republic of Venice sent many Italian families to Corfu. These families brought the Italian language of the Middle Ages to the island.\n\nWhen Venice ruled Corfu and the Ionian islands, which lasted during the Renaissance and until the late 18th century, most of the Corfiote upper classes spoke Italian (or Venetian in many cases), but the mass of people remained Greek ethnically, linguistically, and religiously before and after the Ottoman sieges of the 16th century.\n\nCorfiot Italians were mainly concentrated in the city of Corfu, which was called \"Città di Corfù\" by the Venetians. More than half of the population of Corfu city in the 18th century was Venetian-speaking.\n\nThe re-emergence of Greek nationalism, after the Napoleonic era, contributed to the disappearance of the Corfiot Italians. Corfu was ultimately incorporated into Greece in 1864. The Greek government abolished all Italian schools in the Ionian islands in 1870, and as a consequence, by the 1940s there were only four hundred Corfiote Italians left.\n\nThe Republic of Venice dominated Corfu for nearly five centuries until 1797. Although assailed several times by Turkish naval and land forces and subjected to four notable sieges in 1537, 1571, 1573 and 1716, in which the great natural strength of the city and its defenders asserted itself time after time. The effectiveness of the powerful Venetian fortifications of the island was a great factor that enabled Corfu to remain the last bastion of free, uninterrupted Greek and Christian civilization in the southern Balkans after the fall of Constantinople. Will Durant, an American historian, claims that Corfu owed to the Republic of Venice the fact that it was the only part of Greece never conquered by the Muslim Turks. The Turks occupied briefly some of the other Ionian islands, but were unsuccessful with their four sieges of Corfu. This fact gave Corfu and Malta the title of \"Bastions of Christian Europe\" during the late Renaissance.\n\nDuring these centuries, many Venetians moved to the island. Because of its association with the ruling elite, by the end of the 15th century, the influence of the Italian language and culture (including in some ways the Roman Catholic church) assumed a predominant role in the island. Until the second half of the 20th century the \"Veneto da mar\" was spoken in Corfu, and the local Greek language assimilated a large number of Italian and Venetian words, many of which are still common today. Indeed, even before the fall of the Byzantine Empire much of the population in Corfu spoke the \"Veneto da mar\" or the Mediterranean Lingua Franca Sabir as a second, or first, language.\n\nCorfu passed as a dowry from the Greek Despot of Epirus to Manfred of Sicily in 1259, and was not ruled by Greeks again until the 19th century. It became Venetian in 1386 although, with the exception of Corfu city which maintained a majority of a Venetian-speaking population (due partially to the Italkian of the capital's Jewish community), most of the peasants retained Greek as their first language.\n\nAccording to historian Ezio Gray, the small communities of Venetian-speaking people in Corfu were mostly assimilated after the island became part of Greece in 1864 and especially after all Italian schools were closed in 1870. However, the Italian language maintained some importance, as can be seen by the fact that poets like Stefano Martzokis (Marzocchi was the surname of the father, an Italian from Emilia-Romagna) and Geranimos Markonos, the first from Corfù and the second from Cefalonia, wrote some of their poems in Italian during the second half of the 19th century.\n\nVenetian rule significantly influenced many aspects of the island's culture. The Venetian feudal families pursued a mild but somewhat assimilating policy towards the natives, who began to adopt many aspects of Venetian customs and culture. The Corfiotes were encouraged to enrich themselves by the cultivation of the olive, but were debarred from entering into commercial competition with Venice. The island served even as a refuge for Greek scholars, and in 1732 became the home of the first Academy of modern Greece. The first newspaper of Corfu was in Italian: the official weekly newspaper (\"Gazzetta degli Stati Uniti delle Isole Jone\") was first published in 1814. First in Italian, then in both Greek and Italian, finally from 1850 in Greek and English; and it continued for the entire duration of the English Protectorate until 1864. Many Italian Jews took refuge in Corfu during the Venetian period and spoke their own language, a mixture of Hebrew and Venetian with some Greek words.\n\nVenetian influence was also important in the development of the opera in Corfu. During Venetian rule, the Corfiotes developed a fervent appreciation of Italian opera, and many local composers, such as the Corfiot Italians Antonio Liberali and Domenico Padovani developed their career with the theatre of Corfu, called \"Teatro di San Giacomo\".\n\nCorfu's cuisine also maintains some Venetian delicacies, cooked with local spicy recipes. Dishes include \"Pastitsado\" (the most popular dish in the island of Corfu, that comes from the Venetian dish Spezzatino), \"Strapatsada\", \"Sofrito\", \"Savoro\", \"Bianco\" and \"Mandolato\". Some traditions in Corfu were introduced by the Venetians such as the Carnival (\"Ta Karnavalia\").\n\nThe architecture of Corfu City still reflects its long Venetian heritage, with its multi-storied buildings, its spacious squares such as the popular \"Spianada\" and the narrow cobblestone alleys known as \"Kantounia\". The town began to grow during the Venetian period on a low hillock situated between the two forts. In many respects, Corfu typifies the small Venetian town, or \"borgo\", of which there are numerous other surviving examples in the former Venetian territories of the Adriatic Sea, such as Ragusa and Spalato in Dalmatia. As in Venice itself, the \"campi\" developed haphazardly in the urban fabric where it was natural for residents to congregate, especially around churches, civic buildings, fountains, and cisterns. The best example of such a space is Plateia Dimarcheiou (\"Town Hall Square\"), overlooked on its north side by the 17th century Loggia dei Nobili (which today serves as the seat of the local government) and on the east side by the late sixteenth century Catholic Church of St. Iakovos, or St. James. The Italian Renaissance is best represented on Corfu by the surviving structures of the \"Fortezza Vecchia\" (the Old Fortress) on the eastern side of the town, built by the Veronese military engineer Michele Sanmicheli and the Venetian Ferrante Vitelli, who also designed the later fortress on the west, the \"Fortezza Nuova\".\n\nVenetians promoted the Catholic Church during their four centuries of rule in Corfu. Today, the majority of Corfiots are Greek Orthodox Christians (following the official religion of Greece). However, there is still a percentage of Catholics (5% or 4,000 people) who owe their faith to their Venetian origins. These contemporary Catholics are mostly families who came from Malta (about two thirds), but also from Italy during Venetian rule. The Catholic community almost exclusively resides in the Venetian \"Citadel\" of Corfu City, living harmoniously alongside the Orthodox community.\n\nDuring Venetian rule, the Corfiotes developed a fervent appreciation of Italian opera, which was the real source of the extraordinary (given conditions in the mainland of Greece) musical development of the island during that era. The opera house of Corfu during 18th and 19th centuries was that of the \"Nobile Teatro di San Giacomo\", named after the neighbouring Catholic cathedral, but the theatre was later converted into the Town Hall. A long series of local composers, such as Antonio Liberali (a son of an Italian bandmaster of the British Army, who later translated his surname to 'Eleftheriadis'), Domenico Padovani (whose family has been in Corfu since the 16th century) or Spyridon Xyndas contributed to the fame of the Teatro di San Giacomo.\n\nThe first opera to be performed in the San Giacomo Theatre had been as far back as 1733 (\"Gerone, tiranno di Siracusa\"), and for almost two hundred years between 1771 until 1943 nearly every major operatic composition from the Italian tradition, as well as many others of Greek and French composers, were performed at the stage of the San Giacomo theatre. This impressive tradition, invoking an exceptional musical past, continues to be reflected in the mythology supporting the opera theatre of Corfu, reputed to be fixture on famous opera singers' working travel itineraries. Operatic performers who found success at the theatre were distinguished with the accolade \"applaudito in Corfu\" (\"applauded in Corfu\") as a tribute to the discriminating musical sensibility of the island's audience.\n\nThe Italian Risorgimento was initially concentrated in the Italian peninsula with the surrounding continental areas (Istria, Dalmatia, Trentino, Nizzardo, etc.) and did not reach Corfu and the Ionian islands. One of the main heroes of the Italian Risorgimento, the poet Ugo Foscolo, was born in Zante from a noble Venetian family of the island, but only superficially promoted the possible unification of the Ionian islands to Italy.\n\nThe first newspaper of Corfu was in Italian: the official weekly newspaper (\"Gazzetta degli Stati Uniti delle Isole Jone\") was first published in 1814. First in Italian, then in both Greek and Italian, finally from 1850 in Greek and English; and it continued for the entire duration of the English Protectorate until 1864.\n\nAccording to historian Ezio Gray, the small communities of Venetian-speaking people in Corfu were mostly assimilated after the island became part of Greece in 1864 and especially after all Italian schools were closed in 1870.\n\nHowever, the Italian language maintained some importance, as can be seen by the fact that poets like Stefano Martzokis (Marzocchi was the surname of the father, an Italian from Emilia-Romagna) and Geranimos Markonos, the first from Corfù and the second from Cefalonia, wrote in Italian some of their poems in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nThe island of Corfu was a refuge for many Italians in exile during the Wars of Independence of Italy, like Niccolò Tommaseo (who married Diamante Pavello-Artale, a Corfiot Italian).\n\nAfter World War I, however, the Kingdom of Italy started to apply a policy of expansionism toward the Adriatic area and saw Corfu as the gate of this sea. Benito Mussolini developed an extreme nationalistic position in accordance to the ideals of Italian irredentism and actively promoted the unification of Corfu to Italy.\n\nThe Corfiote Italians, even if reduced to a few hundreds in the 1930s, were strongly supported by fascist propaganda and in the summer of 1941 (after the Italian occupation of the Ionian islands) Italian schools were reopened in Corfu city. During World War II Mussolini promoted an initial development of Italian irredentism in Corfu, similar to the one being promoted in Savoy.\n\nItaly occupied Corfu two times: the first for a few months only in 1923 after the assassination of Italian officers; the second during World War II, from April 1941 to September 1943.\n\nAt the end of December 1915, Italy sent a military force to Corfu under the command of General Marro. They established Post Offices with the French occupation troops there. In 1915–1919, the Italian and French forces (as well as Serbian forces) remained on the island. The Italians did not have any intention of pulling out, but the British and the French government forced them to displace.\n\nIn 1923, the Italians tried to occupy Corfu again, but, on the morning of 27 August 1923, unknown persons murdered General Enrico Tellini and three officers of the Italian border commission on the Greek–Albanian border.\n\nItaly made an announcement asking within 24 hours the following demands: an official apology of the Greek government; the commemoration of the dead in the Catholic Church of Athens, with all the members of the Greek government to participate; the rendering of honors to the Italian flag and the Italian naval squadron anchored in Faliro; an investigation of the Greek authorities, with the participation of the Italian officer Perone di San Martino, which should end within 5 days; the death penalty for those found guilty; the payment of 50 million Italian lire within 5 days by the Greek government as indemnity; and finally, that the dead should be honored with military honors in Preveza.\n\nThe Greek government responded accepting only the first three and the last demands. Consequently, using this as a pretext, the Italian Army suddenly attacked Corfu on 31 August 1923. Commander Antony Foschini asked the prefect of Corfu to surrender the island. The prefect refused and he informed the government. Foschini warned him that the Italian forces would attack at 17:00 and the Corfiots refused to raise the white flag in the fortress. Seven thousand refugees, 300 orphans plus the military hospital were lodged in the Old Fortress, as well as the School of Police in the New Fortress. At 17:05 the Italians bombarded Corfu for 20 minutes. There were victims among the refugees of the old Fortress and the Prefect ordered the raising of the white flag. The Italians besieged the island and set the forces ashore. From the beginning of their possession, they started to inflict hard penalties on the people who had guns, and the officers declared that their possession was permanent. There were daily requisitions of houses and they censored the newspapers. Greece asked for the intervention of the League of Nations, of which both Greece and Italy were members, and demanded the solution of the problem through arbitration. The Italian government of Benito Mussolini refused, declaring that Corfu would remain occupied until the acceptance of the Italian terms. On 7 September 1923, the Conference of Ambassadors in Paris ended with the evacuation of the Italian forces from Corfu, which finally began on 20 September 1923 and ended on the 27th of the same month.\n\nAfter World War I, Italy had embarked on a policy of expansionism towards the Adriatic, in which Corfu played an important role, as it controlled entrance to it. As shown by the incident of 1923, Mussolini and Italian irredentism had set their sights firmly on the island. The Italian community was an especially useful tool, and it was both supported and exploited by Fascist propaganda.\n\nDuring the Second World War Mussolini wanted to possess the Ionian Islands, which he succeeded with the help of the Germans during the Greco-Italian War. The Italians occupied Corfu from 28 March 1941. They implemented a process of italianization, with creation of Italian schools, centered around the small surviving community of the Corfiote Italians, who still spoke the Venetian dialect, but which by that time numbered only 500 people, living mainly in Corfu city.\n\nThe first reaction to the Italian occupation happened on the first Sunday of November 1941. During the procession of the Saint Spyridon, the fascist young Corfiot Italians participated and provoked the students of the Greek high schools. When the procession arrived in the Upper Square, the students started to leave whilst singing the national Greek songs. The \"Carbinaria\" and the \"Finetsia\" fascist groups attacked and arrested many Greek students, beating them and exiling some of them to the island of Othonous. After that episode there was a relative calm in Corfu until the surrender of Italy on 9 September 1943.\n\nFrom 10 to 14 September 1943, the Germans tried to force the Italian garrison in Corfu to surrender, while the political prisoners from the small island of Lazaretto were set free. Finally, on the morning of 13 September, Corfiots woke up to the disasters of the war, as the Germans attacked the island. The German air raids continued the whole day bombarding the port, the Fortresses and strategic points. During the night of 14 September, huge damages were inflicted to the Jewish quarters of Saint Fathers and Saint Athanasios, the Court House, the Ionian Parliament, the Ionian Academy, in which the Library was lodged, the Schools of Middle Education, the Hotel \"Bella Venezia\", the Customs Office, the Manor-Houses and the Theatre. Finally the next week the Germans occupied the island with huge losses among the Italians, and subsequently deported the nearly 5,000 Jews (speakers of the Italkian) of the island to concentration camps, where most of them perished.\n\nCurrently, the Venetian language is no longer spoken in Corfu as its last speakers died in the 1980s. Moreover, there are only a few Jews in Corfu city who still speak Italkian, a Jewish language mixed with many Venetian words.\n\nHistorically, the upper class of the Jewish community of Corfu spoke a Venetian dialect with some modifications (due to the influence of Greek) (see \"Italkian\").\n\nThe Venetian of the Corfiote Jews accordingly differed from the same Venetian dialect as spoken by non-Jews in the same town. A characteristic of this dialect is the formation in \"ò\" of the plural of nouns ending in \"à\", a formation which originated in the Hebrew ending, simplified, according to the Italian laws of phonology, into \"ò\", e.g., the Italianized plural of \"berakah\" is \"berakhò\" (for \"berakot\"); hence \"novità\", \"novitò\"; \"città\", \"cittò.\" There has presumably been no Jewish literature in this dialect, since Venice herself very early adopted pure Italian as her official language, and all documents of the Corfu Jewish community were written in that language, which served as well in Hebrew schools as the means of translating the Bible.\n\nPermanent residence in Corfu was also found by the Apulian Jews, who brought from the Italian coast their vernacular and a few specimens, still preserved, of their literature. The dialect from Apulia was accordingly spoken by the under class of the Jewish community. Two Apulian love-songs, seemingly original, exist in manuscript, of which one is an independent composition of a rather scurrilous purport, while in the second each stanza is preceded by one of a religious Hebrew poem on a quite different subject. Both are written in Hebrew characters, as is a semioriginal composition containing the rules for the Passover supper, of which the following paragraph (with Italian words retransliterated) may be cited:\n\n\"Pigiamu la cu li doi signali, e la spartimu a menzu, edizzimu: Comu spartimu chista, cussi spardiu lu Mari Ruviu, e passàra li padri nostri intra di issu e fizzi cun issi e . Cussì cu fazza cu nùi; chistu annu accà, l'annu che veni à la terra di omini liberi.—Menza mintimu sotto la tovaggia pir, e l'altva menza infra li doi, pir cu farrimu.\"\n\nThe simple past tense (\"vitti\", \"vidisti\", \"vitti\") was the only one in use among the Apulian Jews, who agreed in this respect with the Apulians of the Italian coast; they differed from the latter, however, in forming the future, which is expressed by means of the auxiliary \"anzu\" (= \"I have\"), as on the Continent, and a following infinitive, which is always, as in modern Greek, resolved. Such resolution occurs quite frequently in the area of Bari (with the particles \"mu\" or \"mi\"), but not as regularly as in Corfu, where with the exception of the substantivized forms \"lu manzari\", \"lu mbiviri\", and a few others, the unresolved infinitive is absolutely unknown. So to-day \"dirò\", \"aggiu diri\" and \"aggiu mu dicu\" occur on the Continent, but only \"anzu cu dicu\", in Corfu.\n\nThis dialect has brought all borrowed words under its own laws of accidence; but its original vocabulary has been hopelessly impoverished and deprived of its finest elements. A Corfiote Jew visiting any part of Apulia would have found difficulty in understanding the spoken vernacular or the songs of the natives, although the grammatical structure is exactly the same as that of his own dialect.\n\nThe Jews can boast of having preserved the oldest text in the Apulian dialect, a collection of translations of Hebrew dirges dating from the thirteenth century and now in the British Museum (MS. Or. 6276). It contains many obsolete terms which are very close to the Latin and many of the older and fuller grammatical forms. Among its points of interest are words and phrases such as \"tamen sollicitatevi\" (=\"mind\"), \"etiam Ribbi Ismahel\", \"lu coriu\" (=\"skin\"), \"di la carni sua\", \"la ostia\" (=\"army\"), and \"di li cieli.\" In the fourteenth century the decay of Apulian in Corfu had so far advanced that readers were no longer able to pronounce correctly the words of this Hebrew manuscript or to grasp their meanings. Vowel-points were accordingly inserted, but very inaccurately; and later an incompetent scribe incorrectly substituted \"duzzini\" (= \"dozens\"), \"douzelli\" (= \"young men\"), \"macchina\" (= \"machine\") for \"magina\" (= \"image\"), and attempted to erase the superlative termination of \"grandissima.\" It was perhaps owing to the influence of the Venetian Veneto da mar that he spared all the simple futures; but in four or five places where the pronoun of the first person was erased the substituted words have so thoroughly obliterated the original readings that it is impossible to discover what was the old form of the peculiar \"joni\" which is now used side by side with \"jò.\"\n\nToday there are less than one hundred Corfiote Jews in the island of Corfu, subsequent to the Nazi deportations during World War II.\n\nA large community of descendants of Maltese Italians is still present in Corfu. Their forebears came to the island during the 19th century, when the British authorities brought many skilled workers from Malta to the Ionian Islands. The British needed married men so that their work would be continued by their children, and as a consequence 80 people (40 families from 1815 until 1860) were transported to Corfu, whose descendants remain on the island today.\n\nIn 1901, there were almost one thousand people in Corfu who considered themselves to be ethnic Maltese. In Cephalonia the number was 225. There were another hundred Maltese spread among the other lesser islands of the Ionian Group. Maltese emigration to these islands practically ceased when they were returned to Greece in 1864. Because of the union with Greece, a number of Maltese families abandoned Corfu and settled in Cardiff, Wales, where their descendants still live.\n\nIn Corfu, two villages on the island bear names testifying to Maltese presence: Maltezika is named after Malta and Cozzella got its name from Gozo. In Cozzella the Franciscan Sisters of Malta opened a convent and a school in 1907. Those two institutions still flourish. In 1923, there were some 1,200 ethnic Maltese in Corfu, but many of them spoke either Greek or the local Corfiot dialect, which still bore traces of the Venetian occupation of the island. Because of this Venetian connection, Fascist propagandists tried to build up an irredentist case for Corfu. Guido Puccio wrote in \"Tribuna\", a leading Roman newspaper on 12 September 1923, that the Maltese element in Corfu could be used as an instrument to further Italian claims on that island.\n\nIn 1930, the Maltese in Corfu had their own priest who looked after their welfare while he kept useful contacts with the ecclesiastical and civil authorities in Malta. That priest was the Rev. Spiridione Cilia, who had been born in Corfu of Maltese parents and became the parish priest of the Maltese community.\n\nThe Corfiot Maltese community currently numbers 3,500 people in the entire island. They constitute the center of the Catholic community of Corfu, but not one among continues to speaks the Maltese language. The former mayor of the city of Corfu, Sotiris Micalef, is of Maltese descent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41267795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41267795", "title": "Corruption in Luxembourg", "text": "Corruption in Luxembourg\n\nCorruption in Luxembourg is examined on this page.\n\nThe level of corruption in Luxembourg is generally very low, and there is a strong legal framework for combating corruption. Anti-corruption laws are effectively implemented. However, political corruption does surface. According to Transparency International Global Corruption Barometer 2013, 53% of the surveyed households consider political parties \"corrupt\" or \"extremely corrupt\", and 33% have the same opinion about Parliament. Moreover, a significant number of the surveyed households consider that the government's fight against corruption \"ineffective\" and corruption has increased over the past two years.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 8th place out of 180 countries. \n\nRegarding business and corruption, companies do not consider corruption an obstacle for doing business in Luxembourg, according to World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014. However, several other sources indicate that the overlap between business and politics in Luxembourg gives opportunities for corruption, and there is no code of conduct focusing on corruption, conflict of interest and favouritism for procurement officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "23196442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23196442", "title": "Danta people", "text": "Danta people\n\nThe Danta people, historically and commonly known as Dubamo are an ethnic group in Ethiopia. The homeland of the Danta is in the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region (SNNPR), specifically the Hadiya Zone, and less so in the Kembata Tembaro Zone (KT).\n\nThe Danta, historically and commonly known as Dubamo are a small ethnic group in Ethiopia. Their symbolic center of settlement is the highland area of Danta, after which they are sometimes named. The Danta originally spoke the Kizinya dialect of Kambaata. However, the Danta have made a significant linguistic transition since the Hadiya migrated into their homeland at the beginning of the 19th century. A sizable number of Danta living in their original home have so far resisted assimilation by the Hadiya and still speak their original Kizinya dialect.\n\nHistorically, Danta is thought to be a \"state formed in Kambata about 1550-1570\", and the \"Dubamo people were known to have slave trade with Jimma even after the anti-slavery proclamation of 1923\". The Danta \"were organized in a small kingship whose rulers claim descent from 'King Solomon' of Gondar, i.e. from Amharic nobility\". The Danta still maintain \"a tradition that they came from Gondar about 15 generations ago\" and \"conserved an outstanding consciousness as an upper stratum tracing their origin to the North Ethiopian Christian area, a stratum which had at one time superimposed itself upon a Kushitic\" substratum of the indigenous people. \n\nTo date, it is a common practice for an average Danta to name his or her paternal genealogy going back to more than 20 generations. Braukämper, in one of his other articles on the Danta, suggests that their allusion of their origin to King Solomon and the Amharic nobility may be an astute strategy to legitimization of status and power rather than evidence of an actual hereditary relationship with the north. However, a layman’s analysis of their genealogy (e.g. tribe names and distant ancestral names of individuals) occasionally yields, albeit weakly, names that connote northern connection.\n\nHawzula is a supra-natural deity worshiped by all Danta in the past and still by some to date. The Hawzula spirit 'speaks' and 'works' through the \"Hawzulmancho\", a hereditary Dubamo man on whom the Hawzula spirit descends and dwells on. Hawzula was the arbitrator, councilor and judge on all matters not only for Danta but also for the neighboring peoples such as the Hadiya, Donga, Kambaata and Timbaro. Many Danta confessed Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity after Menelik II’s conquest in the 1880s but evangelical Christianity has become the dominant religion since the 1970s.\n\nThe Danta nationality are mainly concentrated in the cool highlands of the Soro, Duna and Misha woredas of the Hadiya Zone, although a large number of Danta also live in the adjoining Doyo Gena woreda of the KT. Reportedly, relatively small clusters of people of some Danta tribes live in the Silt'e and Wolaita Zones. They are known for their intensive cultivation of ensete and barley and for breeding of horses. \"Dantich farasho\", literally meaning \"the flying horse of Danta\", is a phrase that is commonly used for eulogy.\n\nSince the federal rearrangement of the Ethiopian state in the 1990s, \"the Dubamo increasingly became aware of their non-Hadiya origin and started demanding an administrative district of their own\". From that time, the Danta have repeatedly petitioned the government for recognition and representation as an ethnic group. In the 1990s, the Dubamo refused to acknowledge the Hadiya-dominated local administrators as their legitimate rulers and stopped paying taxes as a token of resistance. Ever since the Danta have been making peaceful political struggle for representation at all administrative levels including the councils at the district, zonal and regional levels and the Houses of Peoples Representatives and Federation at the national level. No definitive answer has so far been given and the case is still active and pending. Local media have reported on the demands of the Dubamo at various times and the \"Deutsche Welle\" radio Amharic service has made a lengthy report on the case on 12 May 2009.\n\nIn the current political configuration, most Danta are either neutral or affiliated with the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front. This aside, because of the increasing consciousness of their distinct historical and cultural identity, a few Danta elites living in the area had opted for establishing a legally registered ethnic based political party called the \"Danta, Dubamo Kinchichila People Democratic Organization\", and named two candidates for the 2005 general elections.\n"}
{"id": "8911459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8911459", "title": "Deadmalls.com", "text": "Deadmalls.com\n\nDeadmalls.com is an independent not-for-profit website best known for featuring shopping malls in the United States that have failed or are in the process of failing. The site features nearly 450 listings of dead or dying shopping malls, many with pictures and historical narratives. Created in 2000 by friends Peter Blackbird and Brian Florence as a hobby, the website has grown, garnering interest from major media outlets due to its unusual content and its comprehensive (sometimes humorous, sometimes wistful) coverage. The creators describe the website as an attempt to retain pieces of history that might otherwise be lost with the destruction of these malls. The site benefits from hundreds of online contributors who supply the website with accounts and photos that might be otherwise difficult to obtain.\n\nThe website has also become increasingly influential in the retail and real estate industries as well. National Public Radio reports that new developers often use the site as a first point of reference, while mall owners often lobby to have their malls removed from the site, following redevelopment. The site creators have reported several incidents with mall security as well as legal threats based on photographs hosted by their site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9379", "title": "Demographics of Eritrea", "text": "Demographics of Eritrea\n\nEritrea has an estimated population of as of . No reliable census data is available, the best available estimates being published by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.\nThe population has doubled over the past 30 years, with an accelerating growth rate estimated at close to 3.2% p.a. during 2005–2010. This rate of population growth is sustained despite a high emigration rate; the World Bank as of 2010 estimated that close to a million of Eritreans have emigrated.\n\nThe nation has nine recognized ethnic groups. According to SIL Ethnologue, Tigrayans make up about 50% of the population; the Tigre, who also speak a Semitic language, constitute around 30% of residents. Most of the rest of the population belong to other Afro-Asiatic-speaking communities of the Cushitic branch. Additionally, there are a number of Nilo-Saharan-speaking ethnic minorities and other smaller groups.\nA majority of Eritrea's population adheres to Abrahamic religions. The two most followed religions are Christianity and Islam, which have an almost equal number of followers.\n\nEritrea's population comprises nine recognized ethnic groups, most of whom speak languages from the Ethiopian Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. The Ethiopian Semitic languages spoken in Eritrea are Tigre, Tigrayan, and the newly recognized Dahlik. Other Afro-Asiatic languages belonging to the Cushitic branch are also widely spoken in the country. The latter include Afar, Beja, Blin, and Saho.\n\nIn addition, languages belonging to the Nilo-Saharan language family (Kunama and Nara) are spoken as a mother tongue by the Kunama and Nara Nilotic ethnic minorities that live in the north and northwestern part of the country. The Rashaida speak Arabic, while there are also a number of Italians who speak their native Italian language.\n\nThe majority of the Tigrayans inhabit the highlands of Eritrea; however, migration to other parts of the country has occurred. Their language is called Tigrinya. They are the largest ethnic group in the country, constituting about 55% of the population. The predominantly Tigrayan populated urban centers in Eritrea are the capital Asmara, Mendefera, Dekemhare, Adi Keyh, Adi Quala and Senafe, while there is a significant population of Tigrayans in other cities including Keren, and Massawa.\n\nThe Jeberti people in Eritrea trace descent from early Muslim adherents. The term \"Jeberti\" is also locally sometimes used to generically refer to all Islamic inhabitants of the highlands. The Jeberti in Eritrea speak Arabic and Tigrinya. They account for about 10% of the Tigrinya speakers in the nation. The remaining 90% are Christians, so divided: 73% of the Eritrean Orthodox faith, 12% Roman Catholic and Eastern Catholic (whose mass is held in Ge'ez as opposed to Latin), and 5% belonging to various Protestant and other Christian denominations, the majority of which belong to the (Lutheran) Evangelical Church of Eritrea.\n\nThe Tigre reside in the western lowlands in Eritrea. Many also migrated to Sudan at the time of the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict and lived there since. They are a nomadic and pastoralist people, related to the Tigrayans and to the Beja people. They are a predominantly Muslim nomadic people who inhabit the northern, western, and coastal lowlands of Eritrea, where they constitute 30% of local residents. Some also inhabit areas in eastern Sudan. 95% of the Tigre people adhere to the Islamic religion Sunni Islam, but there are a small number of Christians among them as well (often referred to as the Mensaï in Eritrea). Their language is called Tigre.\n\nThe Rashaida are one of Eritrea's nine recognized ethnic groups. They represent around 2% of the population of Eritrea. The Rashaida reside in the northern coastal lowlands of Eritrea and the northern eastern coasts of Sudan. They are predominantly Muslim and are the only ethnic group in Eritrea to have Arabic as their communal language, specifically the Hejazi dialect. The Rashaida first came to Eritrea in the 19th century from the Arabian Coast.\n\nAccording to the CIA, the Afar constitute under 5% of the nation's population. They live in the Debubawi Keyih Bahri Region of Eritrea, as well as the Afar Region in Ethiopia, and Djibouti. They speak the Afar language as a mother tongue, and are predominantly Muslim. Afars in Eritrea number about 397,000 individuals, the smallest population out of the countries they reside in. In Djibouti, there are about 780,000 group members, and in Ethiopia, they number approximately 1,300,000.\n\nThe Saho represent 4% of Eritrea's population. They principally reside in the Debubawi Keyih Bahri Region and the Northern Red Sea Region of Eritrea. Some also live in adjacent parts of Ethiopia. Their language is called Saho. They are predominantly Muslim, although a few Christians known as the Irob live in the Debub Region of Eritrea and the Tigray region of Ethiopia.\n\nThe Bilen in Eritrea represent around 2% of the country's population. They are primarily concentrated in the north-central areas, in and around the city of Keren, and south towards Asmara, the nation's capital. Many of them entered Eritrea from Kush (central Sudan) in the 8th century and settled at Merara, after which they went to Lalibela and Lasta. The Bilen then returned to Axum in Ethiopia's Tigray Province, and battled with the natives; in the resulting aftermath, the Bilen returned to their main base at Merara. The Bilen include adherents of both Islam and Christianity. They speak the Bilen as a mother tongue. Christian adherents are mainly urban and have intermingled with the Tigrinya who live in the area. Muslim adherents are mainly rural and have interbred with the adjacent Tigre.\n\nThe Beja in Eritrea, or Hedareb, constitute under 5% of local residents. They mainly live along the north-western border with Sudan. Group members are predominantly Muslim and communicate in Hedareb as a first or second language. The Beja also include the Beni-Amer people, who have retained their native Beja language alongside Hedareb.\n\nAccording to the CIA, the Kunama constitute around 2% of Eritrea's population. They mainly live in the country's Gash Barka Region, as well as in adjacent parts of Ethiopia's Tigray Region. Many of them reside in the contested border village of Badme. Their language is called Kunama. Although some Kunama still practice traditional beliefs, most are converts to either Christianity (Roman Catholic and Protestant) or Islam.\n\nThe Nara represent under 5% of the nation's population. They principally reside along the south-western border with Sudan and Ethiopia. They are generally Muslim, with a few Christians and some practising their indigenous beliefs. Their language is called Nara.\n\nA few monolingual Italian Eritreans remain. As of 2008, they were estimated at 900 people, down from around 38,000 residents at the end of World War II.\n\nPeople in Eritrea practice various religions. According to the Pew Research Center (2010), 62.9% of the population are Christian, mostly followers of Oriental Orthodoxy, and to a lesser extent, Roman Catholicism, with the second-largest denomination being Muslims. In general, most local residents who adhere to Christianity live in the Maekel and Debub regions, whereas those who follow Islam predominantly inhabit the Anseba, Northern Red Sea, Southern Red Sea and Gash-Barka regions. A few adherents of traditional faiths can also be found, particularly in the lowlands.\n\nAccording to , the total population of Eritrea was at in (compared to 3.27 million in 1990).\nPopulation growth rate during 2005–2010 was estimated at 3.2% p.a.\n\nIn the 2010s, worsening conditions have fuelled migration pressure, with Eritreans trying to reach Europe illegally in boats reaching desperate proportions in 2013.\n\nThe proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 41.6%, 55.9% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 2.5% was 65 years or older.\nUN medium variant population projections as of 2010 expected a radically reduced growth rate of 2.0% during the 2020s and of 1.8% during the 2030s.\nThis was corrected as too optimistic an outlook in the 2012 edition, which now expected a more pessimistic, but still declining growth rate of 2.7% during the 2020s (10.3 million in 2030) and of 2.4% during the 2030s (13 million in 2040).\n\nRegistration of vital events in Eritrea is incomplete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates:\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2002 (DHS Program):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\nPopulation: 5,060,620\nAge structure:\n<br>\"0–14 years:\"\n42.9% (male 1,085,116/female 1,072,262) \n<br>\"15–64 years:\"\n53.5% (male 1,332,349/female 1,355,494) \n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n3.6% (male 88,068/female 95,186) (2008 est.)\n\nPopulation growth rate:\n2.445% (2011 est.)\n\nSex ratio:\n<br>\"at birth:\"\n1.03 male(s)/female\n<br>\"under 15 years:\"\n1.01 male(s)/female\n<br>\"15–64 years:\"\n0.98 male(s)/female\n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n0.93 male(s)/female\n<br>\"total population:\"\n0.99 male(s)/female (2008 est.)\n\nFertility rate:\nAccording to 2002 official survey, fertility rate was 4.8 with 3.5 in urban and 5.7 in rural.\n\nLife expectancy at birth:\n<br>\"total population:\"\n68.8 years \n<br>\"male:\"\n66.7 years \n<br>\"female:\"\n70.9 years (2010 est.)\n\nNationality:\n<br>\"noun:\"\nEritrean(s)\n<br>\"adjective:\"\nEritrean\n\nEthnic groups: Tigrayan 40 Tigre 30%, Saho 4%, Kunama 2%, Rashaida 2%, Bilen 2%, other Afar 25%((Beni-Amer, Nera) 15% (2010 est.) \n\nReligions:\nEritrean Orthodox, Sunni Muslim, Roman Catholic, Protestant (see Religion in Eritrea)\n\nLanguages:\nAfar, Arabic (spoken by the Rashaida), Beja (spoken by the Hedareb), Blin, Kunama, Nara, Saho, Tigre, Tigrinya, as a second language. English, Italian and Arabic are the foremost second languages.\nLiteracy:\n<br>\"definition:\"\nage 15 and over can read and write\n<br>\"total population:\"\n70%\n<br>\"male:\"\n68%\n<br>\"female:\"\n72% (2011 est.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5425177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5425177", "title": "Elur Chetty", "text": "Elur Chetty\n\nElur Chetty (also called Elur Chettu or Ezhur Chetty or Ezhoor Chetty) is a [Tamil/ Malayalam] speaking Hindu community in South India. They are said to have migrated from Kaveripoompattanam in Thanjavur District and settled in Kanyakumari District. They come under the common name of Chetty which includes other communities such as Kottar Chetty, Parakka Chetty, Vellalar Chetty, Pathira Chetty, Valayal Chetty, Pudukottai Chetty, Nattukkottai Chetty etc. They were once a trading community and were distinct from the other Chetty communities. The name is derived from \"Ezhu ooru\" meaning \"seven towns\". The seven towns were in and around the Kanyakumari District in South Tamil Nadu, India, namely Eraniel, Thiruvithancode, Padmanabhapuram, Colachel, Ganapathipuram, Midalam, and Parakkai. They are called Keezhatheru Chetty. Later Kottar, Thiruvananthapuram, Therusanamkoppu, Nagercoil, Chennai, Thalakkulam, Eraniel (Melatheru), Tiruchchirappalli, Coimbatore and Madurai.\n\nElur Chetty was classified as Backward Class (OBC) in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in 1993 as per Mandal Commission considering the social and financial backwardness of the community.\n\nEzhur Chetty community were originally residents of Kaveripoompattinam, part of the Chola empire, and were an affluent community involved in sea trade. This ancient town was destroyed by tsunami around AD 79 August 23/24 and the community members started migrating to other areas after this event.\n\nThe trading community left their properties and wealthy life, took their family deities' (Vinayaka & Nagaramman) idols, left the Chola empire and migrated to the Pandiya and Chera Empires across the river Cauveri. Some of the migrated people settled in around 93 places including Karaikudi, Devakkottai, Thiruppur, Kovilpatti, Thazhayoothu, Valliyur and Kottar. The people who reached Kottar did pooja for the Vinayaka idol. After the pooja, when they tried to remove the idol, they were unsuccessful. People who stayed back in Kottar are called Kottar Chetty. Later the Kottar Pillayar Temple was built there.\n\nThe rest of them reached Eraniel (formerly Hiranyasimhanallur) near the shore of Valli river. That day was the last Sunday of Chithirai month of Tamil Calendar during the day of aayilyam nakshatra. They placed the Nagaramman (the snake goddess) idol and also idols for Thangammai and Thayammai there. On that night, They made nivedyam (a sweet offering for God) from a mixture of raw rice flour, banana (Matty) fruit, cardomam, dried ginger, coconut and jaggery. This mixture was pressed to form a solid rectangular shape (like a brick), which was then covered using banana and coconut leaves and tied using Kaithai (a plant which produces a very fragrant flower) root. This was baked using coconut husk and served to the god. This came to be known as the 'Odupparai Kolukkattai'. Since then, the Odupparai Nagaramman Temple celebrations are being held to this day and the family and community meet together.\n\nThe community members then met the Chera King and sought permission to conduct trade. Trading then commenced, with Eraniel as the base, covering Ganapathipuram (Pazhaya Kadai), Parakkai, Colachel, Midalam, Thiruvithancode and Padmanabhapuram. Hence they were called Ezhur (meaning '7 towns') Chetty community.\n\nThe earliest known people from the community who settled in Eraniel were Umayammai and Pitcha Pillai (descendent of Unnaamalai). Their offspring are Kolappa Pillai, Subramonia Pillai and Sivathanu Pillai.\n\nOdupparai Nagaramman Temple is the community temple of Elur Chetty community. The temple is situated nearby Eraniel (\"Hiranyasimha nallur\"). Monthly poojas are carried out on the last Sunday of the Tamil calendar.\nKattalai Nagaramman Temple is another temple of the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "34939206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34939206", "title": "Environmental award", "text": "Environmental award\n\nAn environmental award is usually awarded for activities that lead to the protection of the environment. The awards may be open to the global community or only within a particular country or field of work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57797429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57797429", "title": "Family policy in Hungary", "text": "Family policy in Hungary\n\nFamily policy in Hungary refers to government measures in order to increase the national birthrate and stop the decline of Hungary's population. Hungary's family policy seeks to make childcare economically easier for new parents.\n\nHungary's population has been declining since 1980 - when the country’s population peaked at 10.7 million - and with that it is the country in Europe which has been shrinking for the longest time. The main cause of that is that women on average do not have 2.1 or more babies to keep the population stabile (see TFR). There were no governments that could change this declining trend since 1980, however, there were several visible alterations during the last decades. It fell from 2.17 in 1977 to 1.23 in 2011. The Bokros package, the 2008 economic crisis and the European debt crisis all accelerated that downward trend.\n\nThe Second Orbán Government made saving the nation from the demographic abyss a key aspect and therefore has introduced generous breaks for large families and greatly increased social benefits for all families. Those with three or more children pay virtually no taxes. In just a couple years, Hungary went from being one of the countries that spend the least on families in the OECD to being one of those that do so the most. Currently it is almost 4% of GDP.\n\nThe Orbán Government kept the earlier existed \"family allowance\" () and beside that introduced the \"family tax benefit\" (). The two could be counted together as a \"child benefit\".\n\nThe government introduced the \"discount for first married couples\" () which means that newly married couples receive together 5,000 HUF per month during the next 24 months after marriage.\n\nSince 2015 CSOK (\"családi otthonteremtési kedvezmény\", ) can be required by married couples for used or newly built houses and apartments if they promise that they will have one, two, three or four children. The size of support depends on the number of children the couple plans to have. At least one of the parents has to be under 40 years old. They also have to meet the following requirements: unpunished life, 180 days social security payment before the request (in case of one or two children) or 2 years social security payment (in case of 3 or more children). The children - who could be of blood or adoptee - have to live with the parents to fulfill the criteria. They can get CSOK as fix sum of money or as preferential mortgage rates on housing. It can be calculated as follows:\n\nThe amount of the maternity benefit is equal to the 225% of the minimal pension at the time of birth of the child (64,125 HUF in 2017), in case of twin it is 300% (85,500 HUF in 2017). It is a one-off support.\n\nThe child care allowance is paid monthly from the birth until the child's age of 2. Its size is equal to 70% of the mother's or father's - since one of them can apply for that - salary, but it cannot be higher than 140% of the current minimal wage. (Minimal wage was 138,000 HUF in 2018.)\n\nSeveral measures were introduced since 2010 that made services free or cheaper for families with children. \n\nThe vaccinations against the following diseases were free and obligatory in Hungary: tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, poliomyelitis, haemophilus influenzae, measles, mumps, rubella, hepatitis, streptococcus pneumoniae. The government made vaccinations for other diseases free - chicken pox, the two types of meningitis and rotavirus - in 2018.\n\nChildren in the first nine classes get free textbooks in school since 2017. Those children who are in higher classes but live in disadvantaged conditions, suffer from long-term illness, get child protection benefit, or live in a large family with three or more children are also entitled to free textbooks. However, the government plans to provide free textbooks for every pupils and students until the final exam.\n\nThose children who live in disadvantaged conditions, suffer from long-term illness, get child protection benefit, or live in a large family with three or more children get also free or half price meals in nurseries, kindergartens and schools. Meanwhile others get them on reduced prices.\n\nThose youngsters younger than 20 who are going to achieve to get a European driving licence in Category B (motor vehicles) could take a course on \"KRESZ\" (similar to British Highway Code) for free and try the test for the first time at no charge.\n\nIn case of taking a successful language exam on B2 or C1 level the price of the exam is refunded by the state if the examinee is under 35 years old.\n\nChildren could use public transport free if they are accompanied by an adult and do not attend school yet. Pupils, students and undergraduates can use public transport at half price by showing their student card.\n\nParents of one have 2 days extra paid vacation. Parents of two get 4 days and parents of three or more children receive seven days more of paid vacation than the average Hungarian.\n\nThe \"Women 40\" () program makes it possible for women who have worked 40 years to retire in order to get more time to spend with grandchildren or with their own old parents.\n\nMaternity benefit is a one-off support to Hungarian mothers living abroad and amounts to 64,125 HUF per child. In case of twins it is 85,500 HUF together.\n\nEvery Hungarian parent living outside of Hungary can require 42,500 HUF account per child. This money stays in the bank and bears interest until the child reach the age of 18 years. Then he or she can get the final amount.\n"}
{"id": "10288875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10288875", "title": "Gaelic Ireland", "text": "Gaelic Ireland\n\nGaelic Ireland () was the Gaelic political and social order, and associated culture, that existed in Ireland from the prehistoric era until the early 17th century. Before the Norman invasion of 1169, Gaelic Ireland comprised the whole island. Thereafter, it comprised that part of the country not under foreign dominion at a given time. For most of its history, Gaelic Ireland was a \"patchwork\" hierarchy of territories ruled by a hierarchy of kings or chiefs, who were elected through tanistry. Warfare between these territories was common. Occasionally, a powerful ruler was acknowledged as High King of Ireland. Society was made up of clans and, like the rest of Europe, was structured hierarchically according to class. Throughout this period, the economy was mainly pastoral and money generally not used. A Gaelic Irish style of dress, music, dance, sport, architecture, and art can be identified, with Irish art later merging with Anglo-Saxon styles to create Insular art.\n\nGaelic Ireland was initially pagan and had an oral culture. Inscription in the ogham alphabet began in the protohistoric period, perhaps as early as the 1st century. The conversion to Christianity accompanied the introduction of literature, and much of Ireland's rich pre-Christian mythology and sophisticated law code were preserved, albeit Christianized. In the Early Middle Ages, Ireland was an important centre of learning. Irish missionaries and scholars were influential in western Europe, and helped to spread Christianity to much of Britain and parts of mainland Europe.\n\nIn the 9th century, Vikings began raiding and founding settlements along Ireland's coasts and waterways, which became its first large towns. Over time, these settlers were assimilated and became the Norse-Gaels. After the Norman invasion of 1169–71, large swathes of Ireland came under the control of Norman lords, leading to centuries of conflict with the native Irish. The King of England claimed sovereignty over this territory – the Lordship of Ireland – and the island as a whole. However, the Gaelic system continued in areas outside Anglo-Norman control. The territory under English control gradually shrank to an area known as the Pale and, outside this, many Hiberno-Norman lords adopted Gaelic culture.\n\nIn 1542, Henry VIII of England declared the Lordship a Kingdom and himself King of Ireland. The English then began to conquer (or re-conquer) the island. By 1607, Ireland was fully under English control, bringing the old Gaelic political and social order to an end.\n\nGaelic culture and society was centred around the clann or \"fine\", and the landscape and history of Ireland was wrought with inter-clan relationships, marriages, friendships, wars, vendettas, trading, and so on. Gaelic Ireland had a rich oral culture and appreciation of deeper and intellectual pursuits. \"Filí\" and \"draoithe\" (druids) were held in high regard during Pagan times and orally passed down the history and traditions of their people. Later, many of their spiritual and intellectual tasks were passed on to Christian monks, after said religion prevailed from the 5th century onwards. However, the \"filí\" continued to hold a high position. Poetry, music, storytelling, literature and other art forms were highly prized and cultivated in both pagan and Christian Gaelic Ireland. Hospitality, bonds of kinship and the fulfilment of social and ritual responsibilities were highly important.\n\nLike Britain, Gaelic Ireland consisted not of one single unified kingdom, but several. The main kingdoms were Ulaid (Ulster), Mide (Meath), Laigin (Leinster), Muma (Munster, consisting of Iarmuman, Tuadmumain and Desmumain), Connacht, Bréifne (Breffny), In Tuaiscert (The North), and Airgíalla (Oriel). Each of these overkingdoms were built upon lordships known as \"túatha\" (singular: \"túath\"). Law tracts from the early 700s describe a hierarchy of kings: kings of \"túath\" subject to kings of several \"túatha\" who again were subject to the regional overkings. Already before the 8th century these overkingdoms had begun to replace the túatha as the basic sociopolitical unit.\n\nBefore Christianization, the Gaelic Irish were polytheistic or pagan. They had many gods and goddesses, which generally have parallels in the pantheons of other European nations. Two groups of supernatural beings who appear throughout Irish mythology—the Tuatha Dé Danann and Fomorians—are believed to represent the Gaelic pantheon. They were also animists, believing that all aspects of the natural world contained spirits, and that these spirits could be communicated with. Burial practices—which included burying food, weapons, and ornaments with the dead—suggest a belief in life after death. Some have equated this afterlife with the Otherworld realms known as Magh Meall and Tír na nÓg in Irish mythology. There were four main religious festivals each year, marking the traditional four divisions of the year – Samhain, Imbolc, Bealtaine and Lughnasadh.\n\nThe mythology of Ireland was originally passed down orally, but much of it was eventually written down by Irish monks, who Christianized and modified it to an extent. This large body of work is often split into three overlapping cycles: the Mythological Cycle, the Ulster Cycle, and the Fenian Cycle. The first cycle is a pseudo-history that describes how Ireland, its people and its society came to be. The second cycle tells of the lives and deaths of Ulaidh heroes such as Cúchulainn. The third cycle tells of the exploits of Fionn mac Cumhaill and the Fianna. There are also a number of tales that do not fit into these cycles – this includes the \"immrama\" and \"echtrai\", which are tales of voyages to the 'Otherworld'.\n\nThe introduction of Christianity to Ireland dates to sometime before the 5th century, with Palladius (later bishop of Ireland) sent by Pope Celestine I in the mid-5th century to minister to Irish \"believing in Christ\". Early medieval traditions credit Saint Patrick as being the first Primate of Ireland. Christianity would eventually supplant the existing pagan traditions, with the prologue of the 9th century \"Martyrology of Tallaght\" (attributed to author Óengus of Tallaght) speaking of the last vestiges of paganism in Ireland.\n\nIn Gaelic Ireland each person belonged to an agnatic kin-group known as a \"fine\" (plural: \"finte\"). This was a large group of related people supposedly descended from one progenitor through male forebears. It was headed by a male chieftain, known in Old Irish as a \"cennfine\" or \"toísech\" (plural: \"toísig\"). Although these groups were primarily based on blood kinship, they also included those who were fostered into the group and those who were accepted into it for other reasons.\n\nNicholls suggests that they would be better thought of as akin to the modern-day corporation. Within each \"fine\", the family descended from a common great grandparent was called a \"derbfine\" (modern form \"dearbhfhine\"), lit. \"close clan\". The \"cland\" (modern form \"clann\") referred to the children of the nuclear family.\n\nSuccession to the chieftainship or kingship was through tanistry. When a man became chieftain or king, a relative was elected to be his deputy or 'tanist' (Irish: \"tánaiste\", plural \"tanaistí\"). When the chieftain or king died, his tanist would automatically succeed him. The tanist had to share the same great-grandfather as his predecessor (i.e. was of the same \"derbfine\") and he was elected by freemen who also shared the same great-grandfather. Tanistry meant that the kingship usually went to whichever relative was deemed to be the most fitting. Sometimes there would be more than one tanist at a time and they would succeed each other in order of seniority. Some Anglo-Norman lordships later adopted tanistry from the Irish.\n\nGaelic Ireland was divided into a hierarchy of territories ruled by a hierarchy of kings or chiefs. The smallest territory was the \"túath\" (plural: \"túatha\"), which was typically the territory of a single kin-group. It was ruled by a \"rí túaithe\" (king of a \"túath\") or \"toísech túaithe\" (leader of a \"túath\"). Several \"túatha\" formed a \"mór túath\" (overkingdom), which was ruled by a \"rí mór túath\" or \"ruirí\" (overking). Several \"mór túatha\" formed a \"cóiced\" (province), which was ruled by a \"rí cóicid\" or \"rí ruirech\" (provincial king). In the early Middle Ages the \"túatha\" was the main political unit, but over time they were subsumed into bigger conglomerate territories and became much less important politically.\n\nGaelic society was structured hierarchically, with those further up the hierarchy generally having more privileges, wealth and power than those further down.\n\n\nAlthough distinct, these ranks were not utterly exclusive castes like those of India. It was possible to rise or sink from one rank to another. Rising upward could be achieved a number of ways, such as by gaining wealth, by gaining skill in some department, by qualifying for a learned profession, by showing conspicuous valour, or by performing some service to the community. An example of the latter is a person choosing to become a \"briugu\" (hospitaller). A \"briugu\" had to have his house open to any guests, which included feeding no matter how big the group. For the \"briugu\" to fulfill these duties, he was allowed more land and privileges, but this could be lost if he ever refused guests.\n\nA freeman could further himself by becoming the client of one or more lords. The lord made his client a grant of property (i.e. livestock or land) and, in return, the client owed his lord yearly payments of food and fixed amounts of work. The clientship agreement could last until the lord's death. If the client died, his heirs would carry on the agreement. This system of clientship enabled social mobility as a client could increase his wealth until he could afford clients of his own, thus becoming a lord. Clientship was also practised between nobles, which established hierarchies of homage and political support.\n\nGaelic law was originally passed down orally, but was written down in Old Irish during the period 600–900 AD. This collection of oral and written laws is known as the \"Fénechas\" or, in English, as the Brehon Law(s). The brehons (Old Irish: \"brithem\", plural \"brithemain\") were the jurists in Gaelic Ireland. Becoming a brehon took many years of training and the office was, or became, largely hereditary. Most legal cases were contested privately between opposing parties, with the brehons acting as arbitrators.\n\nOffences against people and property were primarily settled by the offender paying compensation to the victims. Although any such offence required compensation, the law made a distinction between intentional and unintentional harm, and between murder and manslaughter. If an offender did not pay outright, his property was seized until he did so. Should the offender be unable to pay, his family would be responsible for doing so. Should the family be unable or unwilling to pay, responsibility would broaden to the wider kin-group. Hence, it has been argued that \"the people were their own police\". Acts of violence were generally settled by payment of compensation known as an \"éraic\" fine; the Gaelic equivalent of the Welsh \"galanas\" and the Germanic \"weregild\". If a free person was murdered, the \"éraic\" was equal to 21 cows, regardless of the victim's rank in society. Each member of the murder victim's agnatic kin-group received a payment based on their closeness to the victim, their status, and so forth. There were separate payments for the kin-group of the victim's mother, and for the victim's foster-kin.\n\nExecution seems to have been rare and carried out only as a last resort. If a murderer was unable/unwilling to pay \"éraic\" and was handed to his victim's family, they might kill him if they wished should nobody intervene by paying the \"éraic\". Habitual or particularly serious offenders might be expelled from the kin-group and its territory. Such people became outlaws (with no protection from the law) and anyone who sheltered him became liable for his crimes. If he still haunted the territory and continued his crimes there, he was proclaimed in a public assembly and after this anyone might lawfully kill him.\n\nEach person had an honour-price, which varied depending on their rank in society. This honour-price was to be paid to them if their honour was violated by certain offences. Those of higher rank had a higher honour-price. However, an offence against the property of a poor man (who could ill afford it), was punished more harshly than a similar offence upon a wealthy man. The clergy were more harshly punished than the laity. When a layman had paid his fine he would go through a probationary period and then regain his standing, but a clergyman could never regain his standing.\n\nMost of the laws are pre-Christian in origin. These secular laws existed in parallel, and sometimes in conflict, with Church law. Although brehons usually dealt with legal cases, kings would have been able to deliver judgments also, but it is unclear how much they would have had to rely on brehons. Kings had their own brehons to deal with cases involving the king's own rights and to give him legal advice. Unlike other kingdoms in Europe, Gaelic kings—by their own authority—could not enact new laws as they wished and could not be \"above the law\". They could, however, enact temporary emergency laws. It was mainly through these emergency powers that the Church attempted to change Gaelic law.\n\nThe law texts take great care to define social status, the rights and duties that went with that status, and the relationships between people. For example, chieftains had to take responsibility for members of their \"fine\", acting as a surety for some of their deeds and making sure debts were paid. He would also be responsible for unmarried women after the death of their fathers.\n\nAncient Irish culture was patriarchal. The Brehon law excepted women from the ordinary course of the law so that, in general, every woman had to have a male guardian. However, women had some legal capacity. By the 8th century, the preferred form of marriage was one between social equals, under which a woman was technically legally dependent on her husband and had half his honor price, but could exercise considerable authority in regard to the transfer of property. Such women were called \"women of joint dominion\". Thus historian Patrick Weston Joyce could write that, relative to other European countries of the time, free women in Gaelic Ireland \"held a good position\" and their social and property rights were \"in most respects, quite on a level with men\".\n\nGaelic Irish society was also patrilineal, with land being primarily owned by men and inherited by the sons. Only when a man had no sons would his land pass to his daughters, and then only for their lifetimes. Upon their deaths, the land was redistributed among their father's male relations. Under Brehon law, rather than inheriting land, daughters had assigned to them a certain number of their father's cattle as their marriage-portion. It seems that, throughout the Middle Ages, the Gaelic Irish kept many of their marriage laws and traditions separate from those of the Church. Under Gaelic law, married women could hold property independent of their husbands, a link was maintained between married women and their own families, couples could easily divorce or separate, and men could have concubines (which could be lawfully bought). These laws differed from most of contemporary Europe and from Church law.\n\nThe lawful age of marriage was fifteen for girls and eighteen for boys, the respective ages at which fosterage ended. Upon marriage, the families of the bride and bridegroom were expected to contribute to the match. It was custom for the bridegroom and his family to pay a \"coibche\" (modern spelling: \"coibhche\") and the bride was allowed a share of it. If the marriage ended owing to a fault of the husband then the \"coibche\" was kept by the wife and her family, but if the fault lay with the wife then the \"coibche\" was to be returned. It was custom for the bride to receive a \"spréid\" (modern spelling: \"spréidh\") from her family (or foster family) upon marriage. This was to be returned if the marriage ended through divorce or the death of the husband. Later, the \"spréid\" seems to have been converted into a dowry. Women could seek divorce/separation as easily as men could and, when obtained on her behalf, she kept all the property she had brought her husband during their marriage. Trial marriages seem to have been popular among the rich and powerful, and thus it has been argued that cohabitation before marriage must have been acceptable. It also seems that the wife of a chieftain was entitled to some share of the chief's authority over his territory. This led to some Gaelic Irish wives wielding a great deal of political power.\n\nBefore the Norman invasion, it was common for priests and monks to have wives. This remained mostly unchanged after the Norman invasion, despite protests from bishops and archbishops. The authorities classed such women as priests' concubines and there is evidence that a formal contract of concubinage existed between priests and their women. However, unlike other concubines, they seem to have been treated just as wives were.\n\nIn Gaelic Ireland a kind of fosterage was common, whereby (for a certain length of time) children would be left in the care of other \"fine\" members, namely their mother's family, preferably her brother. This may have been used to strengthen family ties or political bonds. Foster parents were beholden to teach their foster children or to have them taught. Foster parents who had properly done their duties were entitled to be supported by their foster children in old age (if they were in need and had no children of their own). As with divorce, Gaelic law again differed from most of Europe and from Church law in giving legal standing to both \"legitimate\" and \"illegitimate\" children.\n\nFor most of the Gaelic period, dwellings and farm buildings were circular with conical thatched roofs (see roundhouse). Square and rectangle-shaped buildings gradually became more common, and by the 14th or 15th century they had replaced round buildings completely. In some areas, buildings were made mostly of stone. In others, they were built of timber, wattle and daub, or a mix of materials. Most ancient and early medieval stone buildings were of dry stone construction. Some buildings would have had glass windows. Among the wealthy, it was common for women to have their own 'apartment' called a \"grianan\" (anglicized \"greenan\") in the sunniest part of the homestead.\n\nThe dwellings of freemen and their families were often surrounded by a circular rampart called a \"ringfort\". There are two main kinds of ringfort. The \"ráth\" is an earthen ringfort, averaging 30m diameter, with a dry outside ditch. The \"cathair\" or \"caiseal\" is a stone ringfort. The ringfort would typically have enclosed the family home, small farm buildings or workshops, and animal pens. Most date to the period 500–1000 CE and there is evidence of large-scale ringfort desertion at the end of the first millennium. The remains of between 30,000 and 40,000 lasted into the 19th century to be mapped by Ordnance Survey Ireland. Another kind of native dwelling was the \"crannóg\", which were roundhouses built on artificial islands in lakes.\n\nThere were very few nucleated settlements in Gaelic areas. However, after the 5th century some monasteries became the heart of small \"monastic towns\". By the 10th century the Norse-Gaelic ports of Dublin, Wexford, Cork and Limerick had grown into substantial settlements. It was at this time, perhaps as a response to Viking raids, that many of the Irish round towers were built.\n\nIn the fifty years before the Norman invasion, the term \"castle\" () appears in Gaelic writings, although there are no surviving examples of pre-Norman castles. After the invasion, the Normans built motte-and-bailey castles in the areas they occupied, some of which were converted from ringforts. By 1300 \"some mottes, especially in frontier areas, had almost certainly been built by the Gaelic Irish in imitation\". The Normans gradually replaced wooden motte-and-baileys with stone castles and tower houses. Tower houses are free-standing multi-storey stone towers usually surrounded by a wall (see bawn) and ancillary buildings. Gaelic families had begun to build their own tower houses by the 15th century. As many as 7000 may have been built, but they were rare in areas with little Norman settlement or contact. They are concentrated in counties Limerick and Clare but are lacking in Ulster, except the area around Strangford Lough.\n\nIn Gaelic law, a 'sanctuary' called a \"maighin digona\" surrounded each person's dwelling. The \"maighin digona's\" size varied according to the owner's rank. In the case of a \"bóaire\" it stretched as far as he, while sitting at his house, could cast a \"cnairsech\" (variously described as a spear or sledgehammer). The owner of a \"maighin digona\" could offer its protection to someone fleeing from pursuers, who would then have to bring that person to justice by lawful means.\n\nGaelic Ireland was involved in trade with Britain and mainland Europe from ancient times, and this trade increased over the centuries. Tacitus, for example, wrote in the 1st century that most of Ireland's harbours were known to the Romans through commerce. There are many passages in early Irish literature that mention luxury items imported from foreign lands, and the fair of Carman in Leinster included a market of foreign traders. In the Middle Ages the main exports were textiles such as wool and linen while the main imports were luxury items.\n\nMoney was seldom used in Gaelic society; instead, goods and services were usually exchanged for other goods and services. The economy was mainly a pastoral one, based on livestock (cows, sheep, pigs, goats, etc.) and their products. Cattle was \"the main element in the Irish pastoral economy\" and the main form of wealth, providing milk, butter, cheese, meat, fat, hides, and so forth. They were a \"highly mobile form of wealth and economic resource which could be quickly and easily moved to a safer locality in time of war or trouble\". The nobility owned great herds of cattle that had herdsmen and guards. Sheep, goats and pigs were also a valuable resource but had a lesser role in Irish pastoralism.\n\nHorticulture was practised; the main crops being oats, wheat and barley, although flax was also grown for making linen.\n\nTranshumance was also practised, whereby people moved with their livestock to higher pastures in summer and back to lower pastures in the cooler months. The summer pasture was called the \"buaile\" (anglicized as \"booley\") and it is noteworthy that the Irish word for \"boy\" (\"buachaill\") originally meant a herdsman. Many moorland areas were \"shared as a common summer pasturage by the people of a whole parish or barony\".\n\nGaelic Ireland was well furnished with roads and bridges. Bridges were typically wooden and in some places the roads were laid with wood and stone. There were five main roads leading from Tara: Slíghe Asail, Slíghe Chualann, Slíghe Dála, Slíghe Mór and Slíghe Midluachra.\n\nHorses were one of the main means of long-distance transport. Although horseshoes and reins were used, the Gaelic Irish did not use saddles, stirrups or spurs. Every man was trained to spring from the ground on to the back of his horse (an \"ech-léim\" or \"steed-leap\") and they urged-on and guided their horses with a rod having a hooked goad at the end.\n\nTwo-wheeled and four-wheeled chariots (singular \"carbad\") were used in Ireland from ancient times, both in private life and in war. They were big enough for two people, made of wickerwork and wood, and often had decorated hoods. The wheels were spoked, shod all round with iron, and were from three to four and a half feet high. Chariots were generally drawn by horses or oxen, with horse-drawn chariots being more common among chiefs and military men. War chariots furnished with scythes and spikes, like those of the ancient Gauls and Britons, are mentioned in literature.\n\nBoats used in Gaelic Ireland include canoes, currachs, sailboats and Irish galleys. Ferryboats were used to cross wide rivers and are often mentioned in the Brehon Laws as subject to strict regulations. Sometimes they were owned by individuals and sometimes they were the common property of those living round the ferry. Large boats were used for trade with mainland Europe.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages, the common clothing amongst the Gaelic Irish consisted of a \"brat\" (a woollen semi circular cloak) worn over a \"léine\" (a loose-fitting, long-sleeved tunic made of linen). For men the \"léine\" reached to their ankles but was hitched up by means of a crios (pronounced 'kriss') which was a type of woven belt. The léine was hitched up to knee level. (Gaelicattire.com) Women wore the léine at full length. Men sometimes wore tight-fitting trews (Gaelic triúbhas) but otherwise went bare-legged. The \"brat\" was simply thrown over both shoulders or sometimes over only one. Occasionally the brat was fastened with a \"dealg\" (brooch), with men usually wearing the \"dealg\" at their shoulders and women at their chests. The \"ionar\" (a short, tight-fitting jacket) became popular later on. In \"Topographia Hibernica\", written during the 1180s, Gerald de Barri wrote that the Irish commonly wore hoods at that time (perhaps forming part of the \"brat\"), while Edmund Spenser wrote in the 1580s that the \"brat\" was (in general) their main item of clothing. Gaelic clothing does not appear to have been influenced by outside styles.\n\nWomen invariably grew their hair long and, as in other European cultures, this custom was also common among the men. It is said that the Gaelic Irish took great pride in their long hair—for example, a person could be forced to pay the heavy fine of two cows for shaving a man's head against his will. For women, very long hair was seen as a mark of beauty. Sometimes, wealthy men and women would braid their hair and fasten hollow golden balls to the braids. Another style that was popular among some medieval Gaelic men was the \"glib\" (short all over except for a long, thick lock of hair towards the front of the head). A band or ribbon around the forehead was the typical way of holding one's hair in place. For the wealthy, this band was often a thin and flexible band of burnished gold, silver or findruine. When the Anglo-Normans and the English colonized Ireland, hair length came to signify one's allegiance. Irishmen who cut their hair short were deemed to be forsaking their Irish heritage. Likewise, English colonists who grew their hair long at the back were deemed to be giving in to the Irish life.\n\nGaelic men typically wore a beard and mustache, and it was often seen as dishonourable for a Gaelic man to have no facial hair. Beard styles varied – the long forked beard and the rectangular Mesopotamian-style beard were fashionable at times.\n\nWarfare was common in Gaelic Ireland, as territories fought for supremacy against each other and (later) against the Anglo-Normans.\nChampion warfare is a common theme in Irish mythology. In the Middle Ages all able-bodied men, apart from the learned and the clergy, were eligible for military service on behalf of the king or chief. Throughout the Middle Ages and for some time after, outsiders often wrote that the style of Irish warfare differed greatly from what they deemed to be the norm in Western Europe. The Gaelic Irish preferred hit-and-run raids (the \"crech\"), which involved catching the enemy unaware. If this worked they would then seize any valuables (mainly livestock) and potentially valuable hostages, burn the crops, and escape. The cattle raid was often called a \"Táin Bó\" in Gaelic literature. Although hit-and-run raiding was the preferred tactic in medieval times, there were also pitched battles. From at least the 11th century, kings maintained small permanent fighting forces known as \"troops of the household\", who were often given houses and land on the king's mensal land. These were well-equipped professional soldiers made up of infantry and cavalry. By the reign of Brian Boru, Irish kings were taking large armies on campaign over long distances and using naval forces in tandem with land forces.\n\nA typical medieval Irish army included light infantry, heavy infantry and cavalry. The bulk of the army was made-up of light infantry called \"ceithern\" (anglicized 'kern'). The ceithern wandered Ireland offering their services for hire and usually wielded swords, skenes (a kind of long knife), short spears, bows and shields. The cavalry was usually made-up of a king or chieftain and his close relatives. They usually rode without saddles but wore armour and iron helmets and wielded swords, skenes and long spears or lances. One kind of Irish cavalry was the hobelar. After the Norman invasion there emerged a kind of heavy infantry called \"gallóglaigh\" (anglicized 'gallo[w]glass'). They were originally Scottish mercenaries who appeared in the 13th century, but by the 15th century most large \"túatha\" had their own hereditary force of Irish \"gallóglaigh\". Some Anglo-Norman lordships also began using \"gallóglaigh\" in imitation of the Irish. They usually wore mail and iron helmets and wielded sparth axes, claymores, and sometimes spears or lances. The \"gallóglaigh\" furnished the retreating plunderers with a \"moving line of defence from which the horsemen could make short, sharp charges, and behind which they could retreat when pursued\". As their armour made them less nimble, they were sometimes planted at strategic spots along the line of retreat. The kern, horsemen and \"gallóglaigh\" had lightly-armed servants to carry their weapons into battle.\n\nWarriors were sometimes rallied into battle by blowing horns and warpipes. According to Gerald de Barri (in the 12th century), they did not wear armour, as they deemed it burdensome to wear and \"brave and honourable\" to fight without it. Instead, most ordinary soldiers fought semi-naked and carried only their weapons and a small round shield—Spenser wrote that these shields were covered with leather and painted in bright colours. Kings and chiefs sometimes went into battle wearing helmets adorned with eagle feathers. For ordinary soldiers, their thick hair often served as a helmet, but they sometimes wore simple helmets made from animal hides.\n\nArtwork from Ireland's Gaelic period is found on pottery, jewellery, weapons, drinkware, tableware, stone carvings and illuminated manuscripts. Like other kinds of \"Celtic art\", Irish art from about 300 BCE is part of the wider style, which developed in west central Europe. By about 600 CE, after the Christianization of Ireland had begun, a style melding Irish, Mediterranean and Germanic Anglo-Saxon elements emerged, and was spread to Britain and mainland Europe by the Hiberno-Scottish mission. This is known as \"Insular art\" or \"Hiberno-Saxon\" art, which continued in some form in Ireland until the 12th century, although the Viking invasions ended its \"Golden Age\". Most surviving works of Insular art were either made by monks or made for monasteries, with the exception of brooches, which were likely made and used by both clergy and laity. Examples of Insular art from Ireland include the \"Book of Kells\", Muiredach's High Cross, the Tara Brooch, the Ardagh Hoard the Derrynaflan Chalice, and the late Cross of Cong, which also uses Viking styles.\n\nAlthough Gerald de Barri had a negative view of the Irish, in \"Topographia Hibernica\" (1188) he conceded that they were more skilled at playing music than any other nation he had seen. He claimed that the two main instruments were the \"harp\" and \"tabor\" (see also bodhrán), that their music was fast and lively, and that their songs always began and ended with B-flat. In \"A History of Irish Music\" (1905), W. H. Grattan Flood wrote that there were at least ten instruments in general use by the Gaelic Irish. These were the \"cruit\" (a small harp) and \"clairseach\" (a bigger harp with typically 30 strings), the \"timpan\" (a small string instrument played with a bow or plectrum), the \"feadan\" (a fife), the \"buinne\" (an oboe or flute), the \"guthbuinne\" (a bassoon-type horn), the \"bennbuabhal\" and \"corn\" (hornpipes), the \"cuislenna\" (bagpipes – see Great Irish Warpipes), the \"stoc\" and \"sturgan\" (clarions or trumpets), and the \"cnamha\" (castanets). He also mentions the fiddle as being used in the 8th century.\n\nAs mentioned before, Gaelic Ireland was split into many clann territories and kingdoms called \"túath\" (plural: \"túatha\"). Although there was no central 'government' or 'parliament', a number of local, regional and national gatherings were held. These combined features of assemblies and fairs.\n\nIn Ireland the highest of these was the \"feis\" at Teamhair na Rí (Tara), which was held every third Samhain. This was a gathering of the leading men of the whole island – kings, lords, chieftains, druids, judges etc. Below this was the \"óenach\" (modern spelling: \"aonach\"). These were regional or provincial gatherings open to everyone. Examples include that held at Tailtin each Lughnasadh, and that held at Uisneach each Bealtaine. The main purpose of these gatherings was to promulgate and reaffirm the laws – they were read aloud in public that they might not be forgotten, and any changes in them carefully explained to those present.\n\nEach túath or clann had two assemblies of its own. These were the \"cuirmtig\", which was open to all clann members, and the \"dal\" (a term later adopted for the Irish parliament – see Dáil Éireann), which was open only to clann chiefs. Each clann had a further assembly called a \"tocomra\", in which the clann chief (\"toísech\", modern taoiseach) and his deputy/successor (\"tanaiste\") were elected.\n\n\nIreland became Christianized between the 5th and 7th centuries. Pope Adrian IV, the only English pope, had already issued a Papal Bull in 1155 giving Henry II of England authority to invade Ireland as a means of curbing Irish refusal to recognize Roman law. Importantly, for later English monarchs, the Bull, \"Laudabiliter\", maintained papal suzerainty over the island:\n\nIn 1166, after losing the protection of High King Muirchertach Mac Lochlainn, King Diarmait Mac Murchada of Leinster was forcibly exiled by a confederation of Irish forces under King Ruaidri mac Tairrdelbach Ua Conchobair. Fleeing first to Bristol and then to Normandy, Diarmait obtained permission from Henry II of England to use his subjects to regain his kingdom. By the following year, he had obtained these services and in 1169 the main body of Norman, Welsh and Flemish forces landed in Ireland and quickly retook Leinster and the cities of Waterford and Dublin on behalf of Diarmait. The leader of the Norman force, Richard de Clare, 2nd Earl of Pembroke, more commonly known as Strongbow, married Diarmait's daughter, Aoife, and was named tánaiste to the Kingdom of Leinster. This caused consternation to Henry II, who feared the establishment of a rival Norman state in Ireland. Accordingly, he resolved to visit Leinster to establish his authority.\n\nHenry landed in 1171, proclaiming Waterford and Dublin as Royal Cities. Adrian's successor, Pope Alexander III, ratified the grant of Ireland to Henry in 1172. The 1175 Treaty of Windsor between Henry and Ruaidhrí maintained Ruaidhrí as High King of Ireland but codified Henry's control of Leinster, Meath and Waterford. However, with Diarmuid and Strongbow dead, Henry back in England, and Ruaidhrí unable to curb his vassals, the high kingship rapidly lost control of the country. Henry, in 1185, awarded his younger son, John, the title \"Dominus Hiberniae\", \"Lord of Ireland\". This kept the newly created title and the Kingdom of England personally and legally separate. However, when John unexpectedly succeeded his brother as King of England in 1199, the Lordship of Ireland fell back into personal union with the Kingdom of England.\n\nBy 1261, the weakening of the Anglo-Norman Lordship had become manifest following a string of military defeats. In the chaotic situation, local Irish lords won back large amounts of land. The invasion by Edward Bruce in 1315–18 at a time of famine weakened the Norman economy. The Black Death arrived in Ireland in 1348. Because most of the English and Norman inhabitants of Ireland lived in towns and villages, the plague hit them far harder than it did the native Irish, who lived in more dispersed rural settlements. After it had passed, Gaelic Irish language and customs came to dominate the country again. The English-controlled area shrank back to the Pale, a fortified area around Dublin. Outside the Pale, the Hiberno-Norman lords intermarried with Gaelic noble families, adopted the Irish language and customs and sided with the Gaelic Irish in political and military conflicts against the Lordship. They became known as the Old English, and in the words of a contemporary English commentator, were \"more Irish than the Irish themselves.\"\n\nThe authorities in the Pale worried about the Gaelicisation of Norman Ireland, and passed the Statutes of Kilkenny in 1366 banning those of English descent from speaking the Irish language, wearing Irish clothes or inter-marrying with the Irish. The government in Dublin had little real authority. By the end of the 15th century, central English authority in Ireland had all but disappeared. England's attentions were diverted by the Hundred Years' War (1337–1453) and then by the Wars of the Roses (1450–85). Around the country, local Gaelic and Gaelicised lords expanded their powers at the expense of the English government in Dublin.\n\nFollowing the failed attempt by the Scottish King Edward Bruce (see Irish Bruce Wars 1315–1318) to drive the Normans out of Ireland, there emerged a number of important Gaelic kingdoms and Gaelic-controlled lordships.\n\n\nFrom 1536, Henry VIII of England decided to conquer Ireland and bring it under English control. The FitzGerald dynasty of Kildare, who had become the effective rulers of the Lordship of Ireland (The Pale) in the 15th century, had become unreliable allies and Henry resolved to bring Ireland under English government control so the island would not become a base for future rebellions or foreign invasions of England. To involve the Gaelic nobility and allow them to retain their lands under English law the policy of surrender and regrant was applied.\n\nIn 1541, Henry upgraded Ireland from a lordship to a full kingdom, partly in response to changing relationships with the papacy, which still had suzerainty over Ireland, following Henry's break with the church. Henry was proclaimed King of Ireland at a meeting of the Irish Parliament that year. This was the first meeting of the Irish Parliament to be attended by the Gaelic Irish princes as well as the Hiberno-Norman aristocracy.\n\nWith the technical institutions of government in place, the next step was to extend the control of the Kingdom of Ireland over all of its claimed territory. This took nearly a century, with various English administrations in the process either negotiating or fighting with the independent Irish and Old English lords. The conquest was completed during the reigns of Elizabeth and James I, after several bloody conflicts.\n\nThe flight into exile in 1607 of Hugh O'Neill, 2nd Earl of Tyrone and Hugh Roe O'Donnell, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell following their defeat at the Battle of Kinsale in 1601 and the suppression of their rebellion in Ulster in 1603 is seen as the watershed of Gaelic Ireland. It marked the destruction of Ireland's ancient Gaelic nobility following the Tudor conquest and cleared the way for the Plantation of Ulster. After this point, the English authorities in Dublin established greater control over Ireland, establishing - or, at least, attempting to establish - a centralised government for the entire island, and successfully disarmed the Gaelic lordships. O'Donnell - often known as Red Hugh O'Donnell - died in the famous archive castle of Simancas, Valladolid, in September 1602, when petitioning Philip II of Spain (1598-1621) for further assistance. His son, Rory, succeeded him as the Earl of Tyrconnell and was active in armies fighting for Madrid in the Low Countries and Spain. He died at the Battle of Barcelona in 1642, a naval engagement against the French fleet.\n\nEngland and Scotland merged politically in 1707 after the crowns of both counties were united in 1603, but the crown of Ireland did not merge with the Union until 1800. Part of the attraction of the Union for many Irish Catholics was the promise of Catholic Emancipation, allowing Roman Catholic MPs, who had not been allowed in the Irish Parliament. This was however blocked by King George III who argued that emancipating Roman Catholics would breach his Coronation Oath, and was not realised until 1829.\n\nThe Gaelic roots that defined early Irish history still persisted, despite this Anglicisation of Irish culture and politics, as Christianity became the prominent expression of Irish identity in Ireland. In the time leading up to the Great Famine of the 1840s, many priests believed that parishioner spirituality was paramount, resulting in a localised morphing of Gaelic and Catholic traditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "386905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386905", "title": "Gaucho", "text": "Gaucho\n\nA gaucho () or gaúcho () is a skilled horseman, reputed to be brave and unruly. The gaucho is a national symbol in Argentina and Uruguay, but is also a strong culture in the far south region of Brazil. Gauchos became greatly admired and renowned in legends, folklore and literature and became an important part of their regional cultural tradition. Beginning late in the 19th century, after the heyday of the gauchos, they were celebrated by South American writers.\n\nThe gaucho in some respects resembled members of other nineteenth century rural, horse-based cultures such as the North American cowboy (\"vaquero\" in Spanish), the Chilean \"huaso\", the Peruvian \"chalan\" or \"morochuco\", the Venezuelan or Colombian \"llanero\", the Hawaiian \"paniolo\", the Mexican \"charro\" or the Portuguese \"campino\".\n\nAccording to the \"Diccionario de la lengua española\", in its historical sense a gaucho was \"a mestizo who, in the 18th and 19th centuries, inhabited Argentina, Uruguay, and Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil, was a migratory horseman, and adept in cattle work\" In Argentina and Uruguay today a gaucho is, according to the same source, simply \"A country person, experienced in traditional livestock farming\". \nBecause historical gauchos were reputed to be brave, if unruly, the word is also applied metaphorically to mean \"Noble, brave and generous\", but also \"One who is skilful in subtle tricks, crafty\". In Portuguese the word \"gaúcho\" (note the accent) means \"An inhabitant of the plains of Rio Grande do Sul or the pampas of Argentina descended from European man and [Amer]indian woman who devotes himself to lassoing and raising cattle and horses\"; and in Brazil \"gaúcho\" has also acquired a metonymic signification, meaning anyone, even an urban dweller, who is a citizen of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. In its purest sense, \"gaucho\" referred to the nomadic, often outlaw inhabitants of the great plains of Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil. In current usage, \"gaucho\" usually designates the rural working class in general.\"\n\nThere are several hypotheses concerning the origin of the term. It may derive from the Spanish term \"chaucho\", in turn derived from a Turkish low-rank military term Chiaus, through Arabic \"Shawsh\" which became broadly applied to any guard/watcher or aide. The first recorded use of the term dates to Argentine independence in 1816. Another scenario indicates the word may derive from the Portuguese \"gaudério\", which was designated to the inhabitants of the vast regions of Rio Grande do Sul and Río de la Plata in the 18th century or the Portuguese \"garrucho\" that points to an instrument used by the gauchos to trap and hamstring cattle. The 18th century chronicler Alonso Carrió de la Vandera speaks of \"Gauderios\" when it mentions the Gauchos or \"Huasos\" as poorly dressed men.<br>\n\nAnother plausible origin is from a South American indigenous language, such as Mapudungun \"cauchu\" (\"vagrant\", \"wanderer\"), \"kauču\" (\"friend\"), or Quechua \"wahcha\" (\"vagabond\", \"poor person\"). It could also derive from Arabic \"wahcha\", which means the state of being lonely in the wilderness.\n\nAn essential attribute of a gaucho was that he was a skilled horseman. \"He has taken his first lessons in riding before he is well able to walk\". Without a horse the gaucho felt himself unmanned. The naturalist William Henry Hudson (who was born on the pampas of Buenos Aires province) recorded that the gauchos of his childhood used to say that a man without a horse was a man without legs. He described meeting a blind gaucho who was obliged to beg for his food yet behaved with dignity and went about on horseback. Richard W. Slatta, the author of a scholarly work about gauchos, notes that the gaucho used horses to collect, mark, drive or tame cattle, to draw fishing nets, to hunt ostriches, to snare partridges, to draw well water, and even − with the help of his friends − to ride to his own burial.\n\nBy reputation the quintessential gaucho caudillo Juan Manuel de Rosas could throw his hat on the ground and scoop it up while galloping his horse, without touching the saddle with his hand. For the gaucho, the horse was absolutely essential to his survival for, said Hudson: \"he must every day traverse vast distances, see quickly, judge rapidly, be ready at all times to encounter hunger and fatigue, violent changes of temperature, great and sudden perils\".\n\nA popular \"copla\" was:\n\nIt was the gaucho's passion to own all his steeds in matching colours. Hudson recalled: The gaucho, from the poorest worker on horseback to the largest owner of lands and cattle, has, or had in those days, a fancy for having all his riding-horses of one colour. Every man as a rule had his tropilla — his own half a dozen or a dozen or more saddle-horses, and he would have them all as nearly alike as possible, so that one man had chestnuts, another browns, bays, silver- or iron-greys, duns, fawns, cream-noses, or blacks, or whites, or piebalds.\n\nThe caudillo El Chacho Peñalosa described the low point of his life as \"In Chile − and on foot!\" (\"En Chile y a pie\".)\n\nThe gaucho plays an important symbolic role in the nationalist feelings of this region, especially that of Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The epic poem \"Martín Fierro\" by José Hernández (considered by some the national epic of Argentina) used the gaucho as a symbol against corruption and of Argentine national tradition, pitted against Europeanising tendencies. Martín Fierro, the hero of the poem, is drafted into the Argentine military for a border war, deserts, and becomes an outlaw and fugitive. The image of the free gaucho is often contrasted to the slaves who worked the northern Brazilian lands. Further literary descriptions are found in Ricardo Güiraldes' \"Don Segundo Sombra\".\nLike the North American cowboys, as discussed in Richard W. Slatta, \"Cowboys of the Americas\", gauchos were generally reputed to be strong, honest, silent types, but proud and capable of violence when provoked. The gaucho tendency to violence over petty matters is also recognized as a typical trait. Gauchos' use of the famous \"facón\" (large knife generally tucked into the rear of the gaucho sash) is legendary, often associated with considerable bloodletting. Historically, the facón was typically the only eating instrument that a gaucho carried.\n\nAlso like the cowboy, as shown in Richard W. Slatta, \"Cowboys of the Americas\", gauchos were and remain proud and great horseriders. Typically, a gaucho's horse constituted most of what he owned in the world. During the wars of the 19th century in the Southern Cone, the cavalries on all sides were composed almost entirely of gauchos. In Argentina, gaucho armies such as that of Martín Miguel de Güemes, slowed Spanish advances. Furthermore, many caudillos relied on gaucho armies to control the Argentine provinces.\n\nThe gaucho diet was composed almost entirely of beef while on the range, supplemented by \"yerba mate\" (\"erva-mate\" in Portuguese), an herbal infusion made from the leaves of a South American tree, a type of holly rich in caffeine and nutrients.\n\nGauchos dressed quite distinctly from North American cowboys, and used \"bolas\" or \"boleadoras\" - in Portuguese \"boleadeiras\" - (three leather bound rocks tied together with approximately three feet long leather straps) in addition to the familiar \"North American\" lariat or riata. The typical gaucho outfit would include a \"poncho\" (which doubled as a saddle blanket and as sleeping gear), a \"facón\" (large knife), a \"rebenque\" (leather whip), and loose-fitting trousers called \"bombachas\", belted with a \"tirador\", or a \"chiripá\", a loincloth. During winters, gauchos wore heavy wool ponchos to protect against cold.\n\nGaúcho is also the common denomination of the current inhabitants of the Brazilian State of Rio Grande do Sul.\n\n\"Gauchito\" (a boy in the Argentine colors and a gaucho hat) was the mascot for the 1978 FIFA World Cup.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25132622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25132622", "title": "Jauer dialect (Romansh)", "text": "Jauer dialect (Romansh)\n\nJauer ([]) is a dialect of Romansh that is spoken in the Val Müstair. It is closely related to the neighboring dialect of the Lower Engadine, Vallader as well as Putèr spoken the Upper Engadine. The name of the dialect is derived from a nickname based on the personal pronoun \"jau\" [] 'I', and can be translated as 'the \"jau\"-sayers', as this contrasts with Vallader \"eu\", pronounced [], [], [], [], or [] in the Lower Engadine.\n\nOther features distinguishing Jauer from Vallader include the placement of stress on the penultimate syllable of certain verbs, as well as the infinitive verb ending -er as opposed to Vallader -ar. In addition, stressed /a/ is diphthongized in Jauer. All three traits can be seen in the verb 'to sing', which is \"chantàr\" in Vallader but \"chàunter\" in Jauer.\n\nAccording to the Swiss census of 2000, 86.4% in the Val Müstair report to speak Romansh habitually, and 74.1% declare it as their language of best command. This amounts to around 1,400 speakers in absolute numbers in the year 2000.\n\nJauer is usually not written; the written standard in Val Müstair is traditionally Vallader. Jauer is occasionally written regardless, and in 2007, a collection of short stories written in Jauer (\"Dschon Uein id atras istorias grischunas\") was published\n\nIn official use and as the language of school, Vallader has traditionally been used in the Val Müstair. In 2007, the valley was one of the first municipalities of the canton to introduce the pan-regional Romansh variety Rumantsch Grischun as the language of schooling and official use. In 2012 however, a municipal assembly voted to return to the use of Vallader in schools.\n\nAs with other Romansh speakers, virtually all speakers of Jauer with the exception of children below school-age are also proficient in both Swiss German and Swiss Standard German. Additionally, many people in Val Müstair also speak Bavarian German as a second language due to contacts with neighboring South Tyrol\n\nThe fable The Fox and the Crow by Aesop, translated into Jauer, the neighboring Romansh dialects Vallader and Putèr, as well as Rumantsch Grischun.\n\nJauer<br>\nLa uolp d’era darchiau üna jada fomantada. Qua ha’la vis sün ün pin ün corv chi tegnea ün toc chaschöl in ses pical. Quai ma gustess, ha’la s’impissà, ed ha clomà al corv: «Cha bel cha tü esch! Scha tes chaunt es ischè bel sco tia apparentscha, lura esch tü il pü bel utschè da tots».\n\nVallader<br>\nLa vuolp d'eira darcheu üna jada fomantada. Qua ha'la vis sün ün pin ün corv chi tgnaiva ün toc chaschöl in seis pical. Quai am gustess, ha'la pensà, ed ha clomà al corv: «Che bel cha tü est! Scha teis chant es uschè bel sco tia apparentscha, lura est tü il plü bel utschè da tuots».\n\nPutèr<br>\nLa vuolp d’eira darcho üna vouta famanteda. Co ho'la vis sün ün pin ün corv chi tgnaiva ün töch chaschöl in sieu pical. Que am gustess, ho'la penso, ed ho clamo al corv: «Che bel cha tü est! Scha tieu chaunt es uschè bel scu tia apparentscha, alura est tü il pü bel utschè da tuots».\n\nRumantsch Grischun<br>\nLa vulp era puspè ina giada fomentada. Qua ha ella vis sin in pign in corv che tegneva in toc chaschiel en ses pichel. Quai ma gustass, ha ella pensà, ed ha clamà al corv: «Tge bel che ti es! Sche tes chant è uschè bel sco tia parita, lur es ti il pli bel utschè da tuts».\n\nTranslation<br>\nThe fox was hungry yet again. Then he saw a crow sitting on top of a tree, who was a holding a piece of cheese in his beak. This I would like, he thought, and said to the crow: \"how pretty you are! If your song is as beautiful as your plumage, then you are the most beautiful of all the birds\".\n"}
{"id": "25127102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25127102", "title": "Kryts language", "text": "Kryts language\n\nKryts (Kryc) is a Samur language of the Northeast Caucasian language family spoken in parts of the Quba Rayon of Azerbaijan by 6,000 people in 1975. Its dialects are Kryts, Jek, Khaput, Yergyudzh, and Alyk, which are all quite distinct and could be considered separate languages.\n\nKryts is endangered, classified as \"severely endangered\" by UNESCO's Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger. \n\n"}
{"id": "9791555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9791555", "title": "Kusaghe language", "text": "Kusaghe language\n\nKusaghe is an Oceanic language spoken by about 2,400 people on New Georgia Island, Solomon Islands.\n"}
{"id": "6593777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6593777", "title": "Lungu people", "text": "Lungu people\n\nThe Lungu people (also known as Rungu or Tabwa) are an ethnic and linguistic group living primarily on the southwestern shores of Lake Tanganyika, on the Marungu massif in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, and in southwestern Tanzania and northeastern Zambia. They speak dialects of the Mambwe-Lungu language, a Bantu language closely related to that of the nearby Bemba people and Luba people.\n\nLungu people comprise several clans and many subclans based on matrilineal descent, some with their own dialects, which are depicted as separate tribes on older ethnographic maps. PeopleGroups.org reports a population of 851,359 Lungu in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1999. In 1987 the Rungu population in Tanzania was estimated to number 34,000. The number of Rungu in Zambia has not been independently estimated, though the combined number of Mambwe and Rungu in Zambia was estimated to be 262,800 in 1993 .\n\n"}
{"id": "31933631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31933631", "title": "Maxim Lieber", "text": "Maxim Lieber\n\nMaxim Lieber (October 15, 1897 – April 10, 1993) was a prominent American literary agent in New York City during the 1930s and 1940s. The Soviet spy Whittaker Chambers named him as an accomplice in 1949, and Lieber fled first to Mexico and then Poland not long after Alger Hiss's conviction in 1950.\n\nLieber was born in Warsaw, Poland, to a family of Jewish origin. Both parents came from Opoczno, Poland. His family left Hamburg, Germany for New York City aboard the \"S. S. Pennsylvania\" in 1907 and lived in the Bronx. Lieber's father served as a typesetter for the Yiddish social-democratic newspaper \"The Jewish Daily Forward\", suggesting that one parent (if not both) was secularist. Young Maxim attended public schools, including Townsend Harris Hall (then part of New York City College) and Morris High School (Bronx, New York).\n\nIn 1918, Lieber joined the West Ontario Regiment of the Canadian Over-Seas Expeditionary Force. In 1919, he enlisted in the U.S. Army Medical Corps. In 1920, he received an honorable discharge as a Sergeant. (In 1951, Lieber testified that he had served in World War I, stationed at Camp Meade in the replacement battalion in medical service, that he received U. S. naturalization in Washington in 1919, and that he left the U.S. Army as a sergeant in the Army Medical Corp at Walter Reed Hospital.)\n\nIn 1924, Lieber married to Irma Cohen, with whom he had one son and whom he divorced by 1933. He married Sally Tanenbaum in May 1936, whom he divorced before 1939. (The marriage though not the dates were corroborated by Whittaker Chambers and his wife during questioning by the FBI in 1951.) Minna Edith Zelinka was a co-respondent in the second divorce; Lieber married her before 1939. They had two children.\n\nAfter serving in the Army, Lieber helped set up a publishing house, Lieber & Lewis (which Albert Boni took over in 1923). He co-edited a book, published in 1925, and then traveled abroad using the advance paid him by the publisher (R. M. McBride). Returning to the States in 1926, he worked for Brentano's as head of publishing through 1930. At that point, Brentano's went into involuntary bankruptcy.\n\nIn 1930 Lieber set up the Maxim Lieber Literary Agency. Over the next 20 years, he would represent some 30 clients.\n\nAccording to one writer (and client), Lieber's client list included Louis Adamic, Erskine Caldwell, Katherine Anne Porter, John Cheever, Josephine Herbst, Albert Maltz, John O'Hara, Albert Halper, James Farrell, Nathanael West, Maxim Gorky, Theodore Dreiser, and Langston Hughes.\n\nOther clients included Thomas Wolfe, Allen Tate, Saul Bellow, Carson McCullers, Claude McKay, Otto Katz (as \"Andre Simon\") and Egon Kisch, Carey McWilliams and Robert Coates, and Alma Mailman (wife first of James Agee and then Bodo Uhse) and Anna Seghers and Ludwig Renn, James Wexley, E. P. O'Donnell, and Tom Kroner. Another client was Phillip Bonosky, who wrote a biography of Detroit-based communist leader Bill McKee.\n\nThe New York Public Library may have the most complete list (with years represented):\n\n\nA Lieber family source adds these further clients: Joseph Milton Bernstein, Whittaker Chambers, Havelock Ellis, Albert Malkin, Lewis Mumford, Arthur Simmons, and Richard Wright; and possibly Maurice Halperin, Lillian Hellman, and Leon Trotsky.\n\nElizabeth Nowell, who went on to become Thomas Wolfe's agent later, got her start as an agent with Lieber as early as 1933. Other authors with whom she dealt include: Alvah Bessie, Daniel Fuchs, David de Jong, and Nancy Hale. By February 1935, she had left to form her own agency.\n\nSally Tanenbaum headed plays for Lieber by January 1936: \"Maxim Lieber, literary agent, has placed Sally Tanenbaum, formerly with the play reading department of the Theatre Guild and M-G-M, in charge of his play department\".\n\nJ. Peters introduced Lieber to Whittaker Chambers in late 1934. The two became friends, and Chambers often used Lieber's apartment when visiting New York. Chambers wrote of Lieber (using his alias \"Paul\"): After the Alger Hisses, Paul, of all the people in the underground, had been closest to me. In many ways our relationship was freer than mine with the Hisses. Paul was engaged in less hazardous activities than Hiss. He had a lively sense of humor which Hiss lacked. We shared a common intense love of music and books. And Paul knew my real name and had known and respected me as a Communist writer before either of us went underground.\n\nAccording to Chambers in his 1952 memoir \"Witness\", Lieber helped the underground network in New York City. Initially, Chambers secured Lieber's cooperation in setting up a branch of his agency in London, which Chambers would run under the name of \"David Breen.\" Then, he secured Lieber's support for operations in East Asia. During the summer of 1935, the Chambers family lived with the Liebers in Smithtown, Pennsylvania. After Chambers' defection in 1938, Peters used \"Paul\" (Lieber) to contact him. Later, when Chambers wanted to let Peters & Co. know about his life preserver (see Pumpkin Papers), he contacted Lieber to relay his message.\nWhile the London operation was getting under way (it would eventually fall through), Chambers asked Lieber to cooperate with fellow underground operator John Loomis Sherman (under the alias \"Charles Francis Chase\" and Chambers as \"Lloyd Cantwell\") in establishing the American Feature Writers' Syndicate.\n\nIn 1949, J. Peters left the United States at his own volition (ahead of near-certain deportation) for Hungary, where he lived for the rest of his life. Shortly thereafter, Noel Field (like Hiss not only as an employee of the U.S. Department of State, but one named by Chambers as part of his spy ring) fled from Switzerland to Poland (behind the Iron Curtain). This left House Un-American Committee (HUAC) with few people who had not yet pleaded the Fifth to corroborate Chambers' story. On February 27 and March 1, 1950, Sherman appeared before HUAC without counsel and pleaded the Fifth to nearly every question asked him.\n\nOn June 13, 1950, Lieber appeared with lawyer Milton H. Friedman (brother-in-law of New York State Justice Philip Halpern) before HUAC during executive session with House representatives Francis E. Walter, Burr P. Harrison, and Morgan M. Moulder. As with Sherman, HUAC read out excerpts from Chambers' testimony that mentioned their names or aliases. They also asked Lieber (as Sherman) whether he knew either Alger Hiss or J. Peters. (Chambers had recounted a meeting between, Lieber, himself, and Hiss on Lieber's farm: Lieber confirmed only ownership of 103-acre farm in Ferndale, Pennsylvania, in Bucks County from about 1935-1945.) They asked whether his clients included Louis Adamic, Howard Fast, V. J. Jerome, or Paul Robeson. They asked whether he knew Otto Katz (reputed to be involved in the death of Walter Krivitsky and in Soviet attempts to seize Chambers after defection) or Katz's associate Erwin Kisch. They asked whether he knew Osmond K. Fraenkel or whether he had ever contributed to a publication (probably \"Freies Deutschland\") by Anna Seghers in Mexico. \nTo all such questions, Lieber pleaded the Fifth on the grounds of self-incrimination. As he explained, he had also testified twice already in 1948 before the grand jury in New York City, which then indicted Hiss on two counts of perjury. During testimony, Lieber listed three by name of some 30 clients: Erskine Caldwell, Carey McWilliams, and Robert Coates.\n\nLieber left the U. S. for Mexico in 1951 with his wife Minna and their two children.\n\nAfter one year in Cuernavaca, Mexico, they moved to Mexico City, where they resided another two years. Following his departure from the US, Lieber was stripped of his US citizenship. He resided in Mexico as a stateless person. The US authorities returned his citizenship in 1964.\n\nIn late 1954, on instructions from Moscow, Lieber moved with his family to Warsaw, Poland. They spent the next 14 years in Poland. Professor Erwin Marquit knew the Liebers in Poland and recollects: A few weeks after our arrival in Poland, we began to encounter in the Hotel Bristol a number of U.S. Communist emigres. Although Esther and I had not known any of them personally in the United States, they quickly accepted us into what was to become a community of some dozen U.S. Communists in Poland... Max, a naturalized U.S. citizen, had been a literary agent, whose clients included, among others, Whittaker Chambers, of Pumpkin Papers fame... The Liebers said that they had left the United States because Max had been stripped of the possibility of earning a livelihood... Although I had some sporadic contact with them, the Liebers rarely attended gatherings of the American group. In August 1968 they left for the United Kingdom, from where they were expelled by the British Home Office three months later.\n\nThe Liebers then returned to the States. There, Lieber lived out the rest of his life quietly in East Hartford, Ct. Soon after his return to the US he was interviewed by the FBI. In the late 1970s, Lieber gave a series of interviews to historian Allen Weinstein, who then was working on his book, \"Perjury: The Hiss-Chambers Case.\" Lieber died in East Hartford, Connecticut on April 10, 1993.\n\nLieber's flight abroad in 1951, following Peters, Field, and others, left the U. S. Government with few witnesses to corroborate Chambers' testimony about Hiss. A second trial had found Hiss guilty of two counts of perjury a few months earlier, in January 1950. Witnesses included Hede Massing and a former housemaid.\n\nLieber told HUAC, \"Prior to that I had edited a book, an anthology of short stories, which I am happy to say is in the Library of Congress. \"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21509720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21509720", "title": "Moral suasion", "text": "Moral suasion\n\nMoral suasion is an appeal to morality in order to influence or change behavior. A famous example is the attempt by William Lloyd Garrison and his American Anti-Slavery Society to end slavery in the United States by using moral suasion. In economics, moral suasion is more specifically defined as \"the attempt to coerce private economic activity via governmental exhortation in directions not already defined or dictated by existing statute law.\" The 'moral' aspect comes from the pressure for 'moral responsibility' to operate in a way that is consistent with furthering the good of the economy. Moral suasion in this narrower sense is also sometimes known as jawboning.\n\nThere are two types of moral suasion:\n\nMoral suasion has been applied in many different fields. In early educational thought, it was often paired against corporal punishment as a means of achieving school discipline. Similarly, in parenting, writers from the 19th century through Benjamin Spock have advocated the use of moral suasion with children as an alternative to physical violence. In politics, moral suasion has frequently been employed by movements for social change, but its effectiveness has varied widely.\n\nIn the temperance movement of the 18th and early 19th centuries in Britain and North America, moral suasion was initially a key part of the strategy for reducing the prevalence of alcohol in society. As the movement began to face the limitations of this strategy in the late 19th century, its members turned to legal coercion, leading to the rise of prohibitionism.\n\nIn the American Civil Rights Movement of the twentieth century, moral suasion was one of three major prongs of the movement, the others being legal action and collective nonviolent protest. After initial victories, this nonviolent strategy began to struggle in the 1960s, and largely ended with the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr..\n\nMoral suasion has sometimes been effective in resolving religious disharmony, especially if the Government is actively involved as a mediator. Moral suasion has been effective in Singapore in the creation of religious harmony among different religious groups. When conflicts do arise, the Government of Singapore's approach is to mediate or resolve the issue through common sense, and moral suasion using the collective efforts of the community, grassroots and religious leaders.\n\nUsage of moral suasion in environment regulation consists in making polluters feel responsible for the negative externalities that they cause. Moral suasion can be very efficient from an economic standpoint since economic agents are free to use any cost-minimising solution deal with their negative externalities instead of having to rely on a government-prescribed regulation or tax. Furthermore, the administrative costs of using moral suasion to deal with environmental problems is very low.\n\nA study of marine debris regulations in the United States from 1989 to 1993 revealed that moral suasion can be an effective tool to limit the discharge of trash into water in spite the offenders' low probability of being detected. The evidence on the effectiveness of moral suasion methods to induce environmentally desirable behaviour however is not strong unless it is coupled with other instruments. For example, Canadian policy makers advocates for moral suasion in their endeavour to achieve environmental and wildlife policy objectives, a course of action likely to fail if little regard is placed on the accompanying incentives.\n\nAs a policy tool, impure moral suasion differs from direct suasion using laws and regulations in that penalties for non-compliance are not systematically assessed on non-compliers. This has led some authors to criticise moral suasion as immoral, since compliers get penalised for cooperating with the stated government agenda (thus incurring extra costs) while non-compliers are not punished. Other objections to the use of moral suasion include the fact that it constitutes extra-legal coercion by the government, that it adds uncertainty to the regulatory process, and that it can undermine or delay the implementation of effective legislation.\n\nMoral suasion will be \"an effective economic policy whenever the expected costs of noncompliance is made to exceed the cost of compliance\".\n\nThere are 2 necessary conditions for this to happen.\n\nEven when those two necessary conditions are not fully met, moral suasion, if only partially effective, can be a valid choice of policy instruments if the alternatives are doing nothing or taking actions with high opportunity or administrative costs.\n\nAlthough neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition, a low level of competition amongst suppliers in the economy contributes to increased effectiveness of moral suasion. Indeed, companies that have been \"persuaded\" to adopt morally superior but more costly behaviour, will be less competitive and could be driven out of the market by competitors who are not fettered by such constraints if competition is too fierce.\n\nThe Bank of Canada defines moral suasion in central banking as \"a wide range of possible initiatives by the central bank designed to enlist the co-operation of commercial banks or of other financial organisations in pursuit of some objective of financial policy\". It could also be defined more generally as \"a process whereby commercial banks co-operate with the central bank either for altruistic reasons or out of fear of administrative or legislative sanctions\".\n\nFormal moral suasion is characterised by explicit (though non-contractual) commitments to \"refrain from activities judged to be in conflict with policies of the central bank\". Informal moral suasion is more difficult to define and is carried though various conversations and interactions between the central bank and the commercial finance institutions, during which commercial institutions can be made to understand the central bank's policy objectives on various matters.\n\nThe oligopolistic competition in the British banking sector has witnessed the success of moral suasion as a monetary policy instrument, allowing the central bank to control by persuasion and directive. Given that only five major banks need to be persuaded in England, a moral suasion policy instrument is very effective because non-compliers can be immediately identified and held up for censure, while in the United States where there are many commercial banks, the Federal Reserve needs to use legalistic controls to pursue the same ends.\n\nMoral suasion has been effectively used in the management of inflation in a number of countries and is also referred to as \"open mouth operations\" in the financial sector. The common factor for the success of moral suasion is the trust that stakeholders have on the Central Bank. For example, New Zealand has experienced high inflation in the early and mid eighties which however drastically reduced as the bank managed to anchor stakeholder inflation expectation through moral suasion. Monetary policy to a great extent is the management of expectations, influencing inflation expectations of business and labour. Researchers have found that inflation expectations greatly influence future inflation, hence the use of moral suasion to anchor inflation expectations has been an important instrument in reducing New Zealand's inflation rate.\n\nMoral suasion has also been widely and successfully used to curb moderate price increases in countries as Great Britain and Sweden where a principle of \"democratic socialism\" has been in place for some time. Wage and price increases were agreed upon by the Government, Labour and businesses. The public ownership of the whole exercise enhanced compliance.\n\nAlthough moral suasion can theoretically be used in any political regime, it has a higher chance of being effective in cases where the political authority is centralised and effective.\n\nCentralisation of authority contributes to the effectiveness of moral suasion as a policy tool since it makes the government's positions clearer and more consistent. Attempts by governments to influence the behaviour of companies and citizens can therefore be understood more clearly.\n\nEffectiveness of authority refers to the ease in which the intentions of the political executive can be transformed into legislative or regulatory action. This is important because the governments and agencies can use implied threats of price controls, additional regulation or taxation to induce certain behaviours from companies. Such threats will only have credibility if companies think that these threats will be carried out if they do not comply.\n\nAs fewness of economic agents to be persuaded is a necessary condition for moral suasion to be effective, this policy instrument is more adapted to countries with higher concentration of suppliers, both in terms of number and of geography .\n\nStudies suggest that moral suasion is usually not effective in environmental matters in advanced economies. It can, however, still be used for developing countries since there are still easy environmental gains that could be made without heavy-handed regulation.\n\nMoral suasion is rarely used in isolation. Governments can use moral suasion in conjunction with a variety of other policy instruments to reach its objectives.\n\nFirms may alter their behaviour in order to reduce the probability that they will be subject to additional regulations. In fact, they may respond more to the threat of being regulated than to the actual imposition of regulations, as illustrated by the fact that US oil companies froze wholesale petrol prices when the 1991 Iraq war started, even without being prompted to do so.\n\nGovernments can also implicitly or explicitly threaten to establish price caps to make moral suasion more likely to succeed. This was illustrated in 1979 when the Chairman of the US Federal Reserve System, Paul Volcker, warned banks against raising prime rates above a certain level, and in the 1960s when US President John F. Kennedy caused U.S. Steel to reverse its decision to increase prices by sharply criticizing the company.\n\nMoral suasion, in the form of public exhortation, was used to curb the bonuses paid to certain employees in the financial sector, without much success. The threat of additional, specific taxes was later used in conjunction with moral suasion to make compliance more likely.\n\nCentral banks and governments who let markets know what they consider ranges of \"appropriate\" values for its currency has impacts on the trading of the currency, even if intervention never occurs. Central banks can buy or sell various securities if the currency value falls outside its desired range.\n\nGovernments can choose to publish information in order to \"shame\" certain market participants into altering their behaviour. The threat of information provision, and of shaming drug companies that were charging \"excessive\" prices in the eyes of the US government, was used by the Clinton administration to curb increases in drug prices. The government of Singapore's decision to publish comparative cost data from different hospital to encourage them to be more efficient is also an example of where moral suasion was used in conjunction with information provision.\n\nThe threat of a public option, i.e. direct government provision of goods and services in a sector that is deemed under-serviced, can be a powerful motivator for private companies to modify their behaviour in order to prevent the government from entering their market.\n\nLarge monopolies, sometimes deemed unresponsive to citizens or consumer wishes, can be threatened with privatisation or with deregulation depending on whether the monopoly is government-owned or not.\n\n"}
{"id": "48323664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48323664", "title": "Muniba Mazari", "text": "Muniba Mazari\n\nMuniba Mazari (; born 3 March 1987) is a Pakistani artist, model, activist, motivational speaker, singer, social reformers and television host. She uses a wheelchair due to injuries sustained in a car accident at the age of 21 which makes her Pakistan's first wheelchair-using model. She is also the National Ambassador for UN Women Pakistan.\n\nMuniba Mazari is of Baloch background. In 2007, Muniba met a car accident in which she sustained multiple injuries including a spinal cord injury which left her paraplegic. Along with philanthropic efforts, she has established her brand known as \"Muniba's Canvas\" with the slogan \"Let Your Walls Wear Colors\". Her medium is acrylics on canvas.\n\nMuniba Mazari, who currently serves as the National Ambassador for UN Women Pakistan and has participated as a motivational speaker at various conferences and forums, her first break being TEDx Islamabad. She was one of the two Pakistanis to be named BBCs 100 most inspirational women in 2015, and works as an occasional anchor at PTV, being their first wheelchair-using anchor. Additionally, Muniba is the first wheelchair-using model for the \"Toni&Guy\" in Pakistan, featured in Forbes 30 under 30 in 2016, and head of CSR for Chughtai Labs.\n\n"}
{"id": "51349894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51349894", "title": "Murad Subay", "text": "Murad Subay\n\nMurad Subay (born July 3, 1987 in Dhamar) is a Yemeni contemporary artist, street artist and a political activist who has launched several street art campaigns of which society engagement marked one of their important elements. He first started to paint on the streets after the revolution of 2011, in a campaign he called \"Color the Walls of Your Street\".\n\nHe became widely known as an activist after launching several street art campaigns that criticized the political situation in his country and the conflicts which broke out in 2015 in Yemen. Unlike many graffiti artists, Murad does not hide his identity; rather he always paints in the light of day and invites people to join him paint openly in the streets. People from different backgrounds and ages have joined him in his campaigns to express their own views around the political scene in Yemen. The influence of these campaigns spread to other cities such as Sana'a, Taiz, Aden, Ibb and Alhudaydah where similar campaigns were launched soon after.\n\nMurad Subay was born in Dhamar, Yemen on July 3, 1987. He was raised there until the age of 6, before his family moved to live in the capital Sana'a. He lived in Sana'a with his mother and six siblings. Murad used to draw at school, but he only became interested in art in the age of 14 when he painted his first sketch and received encouragements from his family. He studied English Literature from 2007 to 2011 at Sana'a University.\n\nIn the spring of 2011, specifically with the start of the peaceful Yemeni revolution, Murad was one of earliest to join the protestors in their demand of a just, civil state. He used to spend most of his time inside the change square, inspecting the entrants for weapons and joining the peaceful rallies. When the political parties seized control of the course of the revolution, he left the change square disappointed.\n\nSubay drew his inspiration to launch his first campaign \"Color the Walls of Your Street\" from the damaged walls of the streets. He went down alone to the streets with his tools on March 15, 2012 to paint contemporary murals on the walls. He then posted a public invitation for people through his Facebook page to join him in painting openly. A week later, many people showed up to paint with him on March 22, 2012. He then invited people every Thursday morning to join him in painting murals openly, and often painted alone in other days.\n\nThis campaign lasted for three months of which artists, passers-by, elders, children, men, women and even soldiers painted alongside him in different areas in Sana'a city. The idea of this campaign spread between people and similar campaigns were launched soon after in other cities.\n\nSoon after finishing his first campaign, Subay launched his second campaign which marked the transition to political art. He called the campaign \"The Walls Remember Their Faces\" on September 8, 2012 to highlight the forcibly disappearance of political activists and journalists from the late 1960s and until 2011. He used stencil technique to paint the faces of the forcibly disappeared on the walls of the cities and invited their families and people in general to join him.\n\nFor seven months, Subay asked people on different media to supplement him with information around the forcibly disappeared. Many families responded to him and provided him with pictures, stories and sometimes belongings of the victims. They also joined in painting their disappeared relatives and friends and they held several protests during the campaign. Some of the consequences of this campaign were the creation of a special committee to investigate the cases of enforced disappearance, the discussion over the elaboration of a transitional justice law and the UN pressure on the Yemeni government to sign a convention against enforced disappearance.\n\nSubay and his friends painted the pictures of 102 forcibly disappeared victims in many areas in the cities Sana'a, Taiz, Alhudayda and Ibb. Many of these murals were defaced by unidentified people; however, this act did not discourage Subay and his friends from making dozens of duplicates across the city.\n\nOn July 4, 2013, Subay launched the third campaign \"12 Hours\" to discuss 12 political and social issues affecting the Yemeni society and led it off with a mural about spread of weapons. Fellow artists started to join him during the second activity of the campaign which was about sectarianism.\n\nFor a whole year, Subay and fellow artists painted murals about a certain subject each month in the streets of Sana'a city. The 12 topics they discussed were spread of weapons, sectarianism, kidnappings, tempering with homeland, US drones, poverty, civil war, terrorism, children recruitment, treason, corruption and an open topic in the 12th activity of the campaign.\n\nNot long enough after \"12 Hours\" campaign ended, unknown actors vandalized some murals discussing different political issues by covering the original murals with white paint or slogans. The vandalized murals belonged to the tenth hour \"treason\" that mostly discussed USA, Saudi Arabia and Iran's influence and involvement in the mounting conflicts, and the eleventh hour \"corruption\" that discussed different forms of corruption in the country.\n\nIn early 2015, specifically on January 15, 2015, Subay launched a forth campaign that he called \"Dawn Sculptures\". He led it off with an installation about \"Elmuqah\", an ancient Yemeni symbol that represents the unity of Yemenis and their state 3000 years ago. Subay was meaning to continue working on this campaign, had it not for the power outages and lack of funding that forced him to postpone the activity.\n\nAfter the regional and internal conflicts broke out in Yemen in 2015, Subay launched the fifth campaign \"Ruins\" on May 18, 2015, to commemorate the victims of the conflicts and to highlight the catastrophic situation of the country. He often paints in the areas ruined due to the conflicts. Subay painted his first mural in the campaign in an area called \"Bani Hawat\" located in the suburbs of Sana'a, where an airstrike killed almost 27 civilians, including 15 children.\n\nHis friends began to join him during the second activity of the campaign, in an area called \"Faj Attan\", a heavily populated area inside the capital Sana'a where a heavy air strike on a weapons storage facility nearby left behind tens of killed and injured civilians and destroyed the homes of hundreds of people.\n\nIn the third activity of the campaign, he painted a mural in Taiz city, a city that is witnessing a great losses due to the internal and regional conflicts in Yemen. He painted the mural in the outer parts of the city because he was banned to go further inside the city by one of the conflict parties.\n\nFor The fourth activity of this campaign, he was planning to paint mural in Aden city, another city torn by the internal and regional conflicts in Yemen. However, because of the dangerous security situation, he could not travel there, so he and his friends painted their murals in Sawan area in Sana'a, yet another area that was targeted by an air strike, leaving tens of killed and injured civilians.\n\nThe fifth activity discussed another important issue, and that is limiting the journalistic freedoms. Subay and his friends painted the murals inside the Syndicate of Yemeni Journalists, to highlight the systematic detention of journalists and the violations committed against the journalistic freedoms.\n\nAfter that, in the sixth activity of the campaign, they discussed the issue of the siege on Yemen, whether it was placed by the regional conflict parties or the internal ones, limiting the access of food, medicine, water and humanitarian assistance to those who need it.\n\nSubay painted the seventh mural in London, where he discussed the ignoring of international community and media of the conflicts in Yemen.\n\nIn the eighth activity of \"Ruins\" campaign, Subay and fellow artists painted about the economy collapse in Yemen. They painted the murals in front of Yemen Central Bank after the value of Yemeni Rial against the US Dollar dropped significantly, adding another misfortune to the already impoverished nation.\n\nAside from painting in the streets through campaigns that each have a special theme, Subay invited people to paint openly in the streets on the third and forth anniversaries of his first street art campaign \"Color the Wall of Your Street\" on March 15.\n\nThrough his Facebook page, Subay invited people to paint openly along with him in the streets on the third anniversary of his first street art campaign \"Color the Walls of Your Streets\" on March 15, 2015, an event which he called \"Humans and Art Day\". He invited people to the event to express their love for life, beauty, homeland, and their fear of an expected civil war. They painted on one of the walls of Hadda street in Central Sana'a city.\n\nDue to the many requests Murad received from people next year, he extended the duration of the open painting day event to become three days instead of one, so that many people could have the chance to join in. Murad chose a wall in front of a police station, and from the first day of the event, soldiers and police officers joined them in painting the walls.\n\n2016 – Group Exhibition, \"Yemeni Film & Arts Festival\", The Yemen Peace Project, NY, USA.\n\n2016 – Group Exhibition, \"Yemeni Film & Arts Festival\", The Yemen Peace Project, DC, USA.\n\n2014 – Group Exhibition, \"Talk Love .. Act Peace\", Contemporary Art Platform (CAP), Kuwait.\n\n2014 – Group Exhibition, \"Unrest: Art, Activism & Revolution\", Helen Day Art Center, VT, USA.\n\n2016 - \"Freedom of Expression Arts Award and Fellowship Program\", Index on Censorship Organization, London, UK.\n\n2015 - \"Certificate of Appreciation\", UN (ESCWA), Beirut, Lebanon.\n\n2014 - \"The Art for Peace Award\", Veronesi Foundation, Milan, Italy.\n\n2014 - \"The Youth Shield for Creativity\", Yemeni socialist Party, Sana'a, Yemen.\n\n2013 - \"The Innovation Shield\", the American Islamic Congress Organization, Sana'a, Yemen.\n\n"}
{"id": "28245224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28245224", "title": "Ngqika people", "text": "Ngqika people\n\nThe Ngqika people are a royal Xhosa who lived west of the Great Kei River in the what is today the Eastern Cape of South Africa. They were first ruled by Rarabe kaPhalo who died with his son Mlawu, who was destined for chiefancy. The clan would named after Ngqika ka Mlawu, the son of the then late Mlawu. It would be years before the child would rule his people who fought in the Xhosa Wars following the invasion of the British and Dutch settlers.\n\nThe Dutch East India Company (VOC) that was responsible for trading and colonising of South African land in what is described as “founding” several urban areas like towns and cities in already populated areas of the west of South Africa. The organisation continually changed the boundaries in the Cape Colony due to European invasion and migration, establishing the Great Fish River as the eastern frontier in 1778.\n\nIn colonial times, the Ngqika lands were known as British Kaffraria. Later the Apartheid government gave them a form of independence as the former \"Ciskei\" homeland.\n\nThe clan were referred to as “Gaika” people by the Europeans.\n\nNgqika ka Mlawu was the first chief of the Ngqika and the third paramount chief of the Rharhabe people. He had nine wives. The clan was named after him when his grandfather (Rharhabe, the founder of the tribe) and father (Mlawu, who was to be the next chief) both died in 1782. Ngqika, at only four years old, was too young to rule. Ndlambe (who would eventually establish the AmaNdlambe people) was Rharhabe’s other son and Ngqika’s uncle who became regent until the boy matured – in the tradition of the Xhosas. Ndlambe was responsible for the expansion of his tribe’s territory and influence. He absorbed smaller clans (like the imiDange people) into the Ngqikas or expelled them to far lands. They were eventually invaded by European settlers from the Cape Colony who fought with them over their prime grazing land, west of the Great Kei River.\n\nThe occupation by white settlers (Dutch and British) resulted in the century of Xhosa Wars (commonly known as the Frontier Wars) from 1779 to 1879 involving Xhosa tribes (including the Ngqika), Khoikhoi and San people. Relations between the European invaders were fluid throughout this period with the varying indigenous people and Europeans working for or against one another to secure land, resources and cattle. These groups changed allies depending on who would help advance their objectives over the years. In 1793, in collaboration with other Xhosa clans, the Ngqikas fought against white settlers during the Second Frontier War.\n\nIn 1796, Ngqika turned 18 and was ready to assume his rightful place on the throne, but his uncle was reluctant to give up power. Ndlambe appealed to the tribe to retain his power but this failed. His nephew imprisoned him a year later in an attempt to stifle his power. When he escaped across the Great Fish River in 1799 with his supporters, he attempted to collude with the Cape Colony’s white government to overthrow Ngqika, but the colony continued to recognise his nephew as the paramount chief.\n\nNgqika ka Mlawu died in November 1829 after a chest illness and alcohol abuse.\n\nMgolombane Sandile the rightful heir of Ngqika, was only nine years old when his father died. Mnqoma, born to Ngqika and Nomvakalisa Nothontho of the Ngqosini, was the chief’s eldest son but because Sandile’s mother was a descendent of abaThembu (a royal lineage). Her first son was thus considered the “Great Son”. Mnqoma became regent until Sandile was ready to rule. The following is a list of chiefs of the Ngqika that ruled during the Xhosa Wars starting with Sandile’s great grandfather, Rharhabe:\n\n\nThe native groups lost most of their land and were absorbed into the British empire during this century. The Xhosa eventually lost access to the fertile land between the Great Kei River and Great Fish River to British colonists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8491077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8491077", "title": "Nyanga language", "text": "Nyanga language\n\nThe Nyanga language (native name \"Kinyanga\") is a language spoken by the Nyanga people in Kivu province, north-eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. Speaker estimates range from 27,000 (Biebuyck & Matheene 1970) to 150,000 (1994 census). Many of the Nyanga speak Congo Swahili, the dominant regional lingua franca, as a second language. Nyanga is a Bantu language. Most of the (scarce) linguistic research conducted on Nyanga has been based on the materials published by Biebuyck and Mateene.\n\nNyanga literature is best known for the tales recorded by Daniel Biebuyck in 1956 and published in 1969 and 1970, including the Mwindo epic. This epic is titled after the main hero, \"Mwindo\", a miraculously born Pygmy-like human being who possesses not only a magical sceptre but also the power of the word. It centers around Mwindo's travels and encounters during the search for his father.\nIn other Nyanga tales, the dog often plays an important role as a mythical animal, reflecting the importance of hunting dogs in Nyanga society.\n\n"}
{"id": "24958928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24958928", "title": "One Away (film)", "text": "One Away (film)\n\nOne Away is a 1976 American action film directed by Sidney Hayers and starring Patrick Mower, Bradford Dillman, Roberta Durrant and Elke Sommer. Two brothers help their brother escape from a South African jail, sparking a manhunt.\n\n"}
{"id": "21440260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21440260", "title": "Putian people", "text": "Putian people\n\nThe Putian people, (Chinese: 莆田人, pinyin: \"Pútiánrén\"; Puxian Min: 莆仙儂, Hinghwa Romanized: ) also known as Henghua or Hinghwa are Han Chinese people from Putian, part of Fujian Province, China. They speak Puxian Min, a Min language. Min is one of the Sinitic languages.\n\nThey may also be referred to as \"Xinghua\". Hing Hua district was carved out from Quanzhou district during the Song dynasty and was given the name HingHua. Putianese people originated from Xinyang in what is now Henan province and migrated to the present day area of Putian many centuries ago. Putianese people were said to be mostly in charge of religious affair during that era, and migrated to Fujian after the civil war.\n\nThey are referred to as \"Henghua\" in Malaysia. \n\nToday, there are significantly large Henghua diaspora communities throughout Southeast Asia, especially in Malaysia where they can be found in cities such as Kuala Terengganu and Kuching. In Indonesia, most Henghua live in Java and since long have been known for their businesses that mainly related with bicycle and transportation vehicles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15128559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15128559", "title": "Qimant language", "text": "Qimant language\n\nThe Qimant language is a highly endangered language spoken by a small and elderly fraction of the Qemant people in northern Ethiopia, mainly in the Chilga woreda in Semien Gondar Zone between Gondar and Metemma.\n\nThe language belongs to the western branch of the Agaw or Central Cushitic languages. Other (extinct) members of this branch are Qwara and Kayla. Along with all other Cushitic languages, Qimant belongs to the Afro-Asiatic language family.\n\nQimant is the original language of the Qemant people of Semien Gondar Zone and Ethiopia. Although the ethnic population of the Qemant was 172,327 at the 1994 census, only a very small fraction of these speak the language nowadays. All speakers live either in Chilga woreda or in Lay Armachiho woreda. The number of first-language speakers is 1625, the number of second language speakers 3450. All speakers of the language are older than 30 years, and more than 75% are older than 50 years. The language is no longer passed on to the next generation of speakers. Most ethnic Qemant people speak Amharic. Qimant is not spoken in public or even at house as a means of day communication any more, but is reduced to a secret code.\n\nIt is not clear to what extent Kayla, Qwara and Qimant have been dialects of the same Western Agaw language, or were languages distinct from each other.\n\nContinuants can be geminated word-medially.\n\nThe maximum syllable structure in Qimant is CVC, which implies that consonant clusters are only allowed word-medially. In loanwords from Amharic there may also be consonant-clusters within a syllable. Vowel clusters are not allowed.\n\nConsonant clusters with more than two consonants are broken up by inserting the epenthetic vowel . Other phonological processes are nasal assimilation and devoicing of at word boundaries.\n\nThe prosodic features of Qimant have not been studied yet.\n\nThe personal marking system distinguishes between first person singular and plural, second person singular, polite, and plural, and third person masculine, feminine and plural. On the verb, all inflectional categories are marked by suffixes. Zelealem (2003, p. 192) identifies three different aspect forms in Qimant: Perfective, Imperfective and Progressive. Like in other Central Cushitic languages, the numbers one to nine go back to an ancient quinary system, where the suffix added to the numbers two to four results in the numbers six to nine (2-4 are three numbers, 6-9 are four numbers).\n\nThe basic constituent order in Qimant, like in all other Afro-Asiatic languages of Ethiopia, is SOV. The presence of a case marking system allows for other, more marked orders. In the noun phrase the head noun follows its modifiers. Numbers, however, can also follow the head noun. All kind of subordinate clauses precede the main verb of the sentence.\n\nAs a consequence of the looming language death, many items of the vocabulary are already replaced by Amharic words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4603167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603167", "title": "Robert R. Garwood", "text": "Robert R. Garwood\n\nRobert Russell Garwood (born April 1, 1946) is a controversial former Vietnam War prisoner of war (POW). Garwood was a United States Marine Corps Private First Class when he was captured on September 28, 1965 near Da Nang, Quang Nam Province.\n\nOften cited as the last verified American POW from the Vietnam War, Garwood was taken to North Vietnam in 1969, and reportedly was released in 1973 along with the other American POWs. The North Vietnam government may have kept him as a POW until June 4, 1975 for propaganda reasons until the war ended. After June 4, 1975 he would have no propaganda value as the United States ceased fighting in the Vietnam combat area. However, he did not return to the United States until March 22, 1979.\n\nGarwood was judged by the Department of Defense (DoD) to have acted as a collaborator with the enemy. In 1998, the DoD changed Garwood's status from RETURNEE to AWOL/Deserter/Collaborator.\n\nGarwood has repeatedly denied all charges of collaboration. He also accuses the DoD of trying to rewrite history to make him seem a liar to downplay his 1984 claims about POWs left behind. Garwood's claims were investigated but found to have no factual basis.\n\nGarwood was assigned to the Marine Corps base at Da Nang in the Republic of Vietnam as a motor pool driver. The circumstances surrounding his disappearance are in dispute. Garwood claims he was ambushed when he got lost when driving alone in a jeep to pick up an officer. He says his jeep was torched and he was stripped naked. Marine Corps records show on 28 September 1965, Garwood was absent at the 2300 bed check. No unauthorized absence (UA) was reported, since he was thought to have had a \"late run.\" He was reported UA when he failed to appear at formation the next morning.\n\nOn 29 September, the Division Provost Marshal was notified of Garwood's absence and an all points bulletin issued for him and his vehicle. This was repeated for three days with no results. Motor pool personnel searched the areas of Da Nang that Garwood was known to frequent, but nothing was found. On 2 October, the division's Provost Marshal notified the Republic of Vietnam's Military Security Services. Their search efforts also produced no information. Garwood's commanding officer reported to the Commandant, USMC, that in view of Garwood's past record of UA, he believed he had gone UA again and had possibly been taken POW. However, he recommended there be no change in Garwood's status and that he remain UA until evidence proved otherwise. \nTwo separate South Vietnamese agents eventually reported that the Viet Cong claimed a U.S. serviceman and his jeep had been picked up in the Cam Hai region, about 11.5 miles from the Da Nang Marine Corps base, when the serviceman had become lost. The American had been captured and the jeep burned. However, a ground and aerial search for the burned vehicle produced no results, nor did four platoon search operations on 1 October. Two additional infantry platoons swept the area near Marble Mountain the next morning but also found nothing. On 12 October, the 704th ITC Det (CI) authorized a 100,000 VND reward for information leading to the recovery of the missing serviceman and additional 2,500 VND for the recovery of the vehicle.\n\nOn 3 December 1965, Company I, 3rd Battalion, 3rd Marines found a document titled \"Fellow Soldier's Appeal\" with Garwood's name on it, on a gate near Da Nang. The document recommended that U.S. troops stop fighting in Vietnam and return home. The signature (B. Garwood) may well have been made by a rubber stamp and the English usage suggests it was not written by a native English speaker. A second version of this document was found on 18 July 1966 in the Da Nang area, but it appeared to be on better quality paper and the signature was at a different angle. Based on these, on 17 December 1965 Garwood's status was changed from \"missing\" to \"presumed captured\".\n\nOn 15 July 1968, a Marine Corps reconnaissance team named \"Dublin City\" operating in the vicinity of Troui Mountain near Phu Bai engaged a Viet Cong unit. According to contemporaneous debriefing notes, now declassified, four members of Dublin City reported that the one of the VC fighters was a Caucasian, who was shot during the action and yelled to his VC comrades \"Help me!!\" in English. The \"white VC\" was described as 20–25 years old, with brown hair, 5' 6\" tall, \"round eyes\", and speaking very distinct English. Because they were outnumbered, \"Dublin City\" broke off contact with the enemy but were followed. In a subsequent firefight a few minutes later, PFC C.G. Brown was killed. In September, 2011, 43 years later, President Obama awarded one team-member of \"Dublin City\", James Wilkins, a Silver Star for heroism on that day. Following receipt of the Silver Star, he recalled the white VC incident and stated \"Myself and three other Marines looked at about 200 photos of guys who were missing in action. All of us were positive it was Bob Garwood, who apparently had defected and was helping the VC.\"\n\nGarwood is listed either as having volunteered or been forced into a work group repairing a generator at Lien Trai I, one of the Yen Bai reeducation camps near Hoang Lien San Mountain in northern Vietnam. Other reports describe him as working at an unnamed \"island fortress\" in Thác Bà Lake, North Vietnam, or having been kept behind in mainland labor camps as a driver and vehicle mechanic.\n\nOver a period of eleven months, Garwood faced a general court-martial at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. He was found not guilty of desertion, solicitation of U.S. troops in the field to refuse to fight and to defect, and of maltreatment. However, he was convicted on February 5, 1981, of communicating with the enemy, and of the assault on an American prisoner of war interned in a POW camp, in violation of Articles 104 and 128, Uniform Code of Military Justice. The court-martial sentenced Garwood to reduction to private, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and a dishonorable discharge. He was not sentenced to confinement. His conviction was upheld on appeal. \"United States v. Robert R. Garwood\", 16 M.J. 863 (N.C.M.R. 1983), aff'd, 20 M.J. 148 (C.M.A. 1985). Garwood's record of trial covered 16 volumes and 3,833 pages of trial record. As a result, Garwood forfeited all back pay and veterans' benefits.\n\nGarwood insists he saw other American prisoners of war after 1973 and insists he himself had been held prisoner for 14 years, though there are inconsistencies in his story. Many former POWs claim to have seen Garwood apparently collaborating with the enemy, though some feel he should not have been court-martialed.\n\nIn June 1992, a U.S. task force examined the sites where Garwood claimed to have seen live U.S. prisoners. They interviewed nearby residents and met with Vietnamese officials. However, the task force reported that \"no evidence could be found to suggest that there are, or ever were, any live U.S. POWs\" in those areas.\n\nThe Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), which called Garwood a \"stay-behind,\" investigated Garwood's claim that he saw live American POWs after 1973 at a \"motel-shaped masonry building\" in North Vietnam. The DIA reported it could not locate any masonry structures at the indicated location. Senator Bob Smith requested that the DIA search again. After a second search produced no results, Smith initiated a personal search with ABC News, Garwood, and Bill Hendon. The group traveled to Vietnam in 1993. Following Garwood's directions, they reported they did find a building exactly as Garwood had described it. The Vietnamese government and a former head of the DIA POW/MIA office angrily disputed the finding, insisting the structure had not existed when Garwood was a POW.\n\nThe made-for-TV film \"The Last P.O.W.? The Bobby Garwood Story,\" starring Ralph Macchio and Martin Sheen, was released in 1992. Garwood, played by Macchio, was a consultant on the film. The film's producers claimed that Garwood had received orders to survive from another higher ranking POW. However, there is no substantiation for this claim.\n\nGarwood was also interviewed in 2006 by Sean Clifford for a Yale University senior thesis project. The project involved a documentary film component and Garwood participated in more than eight hours of videotaped interviews. The film included interviews with Garwood's court-martial attorney, Vaughan Taylor, and fellow former POW David Harker. The interviews with Garwood were the first in more than a decade and they represented his most complete account to date of the events surrounding his capture and eventual return to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "6661054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6661054", "title": "Royal mottos of Danish monarchs", "text": "Royal mottos of Danish monarchs\n\nThe use of a royal motto () is an old tradition among Danish monarchs, dating back at least 500 years. The use of such a motto was a way for a monarch to emphasize values or beliefs he / she held dear. In earlier times, these mottos were often shown on Danish coinage, often in a Latin form.\n\nRoyal mottos\n\nSince the time of Frederick VI, Danish monarchs have only used mottos in the Danish language.\n\n"}
{"id": "9105778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9105778", "title": "Sanumá", "text": "Sanumá\n\nThe Sanumá, also referred to as \"Sanema, Sanima Tsanuma, Guaika, Samatari, Samatali, Xamatari\" and \"Chirichano\" in the literature, are an indigenous people of Brazil and Venezuela. They are related to the Yanomami. They number about 1500 and live on both sides of the border. In Venezuela they are found in the Caura River and Ventuari River basins where they live alongside the Ye'kuana. The Sanumá language is a Yanomam language.\n\nOn 24 October 2006, their reserve in Venezuela was invaded by miners who destroyed some of their villages. In retaliation the Venezuelan army killed 10 miners. This incident led to mass protests by non-Indians in Southern Venezuela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55615232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55615232", "title": "Sara Weeks Roberts", "text": "Sara Weeks Roberts\n\nSara Weeks Roberts (January 29, 1865 – ?) was an American social reformer and activist. She succeeded Thomas Nelson Page as president of the National Library for the Blind.\n\nSara Weeks was born in St. Albans, Vermont, January 29, 1865. She was the daughter of Hiram Bellows and Sarah M. (Burgess) Weeks. She was educated in the public schools of that city before attending Emerson College of Oratory, Boston, where she was a student in the regular and post-graduate courses.\n\nShe married Ernest W. Roberts, a lawyer and a member of Congress, from Chelsea, Massachusetts, on February 2, 1898. Their children were Ernest Weeks (born 1898); Sara Dean (born 1899); John Page (born 1901); and Hiram Weeks (born 1907). \n\nRoberts was the president of the National Library for the Blind; vice-president, Board of Lady Managers, National Home Hospital, Washington, D.C.; hon. vice president, Consumers' League. Washington, D. C.; member Massachusetts Suffrage Association; and president, Chelsea Woman's, Congressional, of Washington, D.C. She was a member of the Universalist church; and had homes in Chelsea, Washington, D. C., and Rockport, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4249426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249426", "title": "Secret Swing", "text": "Secret Swing\n\nSwingsite was an art installation that consisted of a playground swing hanging in the narrow space between two buildings in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The swing was accessed by way of the alley behind Queen Street West, which is known as one of Toronto’s best graffiti galleries. Toronto artist Corwyn Lund erected the swing in September 2003 as part of a group show called 'Psychotopes' at YYZ Artists Outlet.\n\nNicknamed the Secret Swing, its location became more widely known when Toronto bloggers began posting pictures of it online and a number of articles appeared in local newspapers. It has since become a cult icon among street artists and the youth of Toronto. It was located in the alley behind the store fronts on the south side of Queen Street, about a block west of Spadina Avenue.\n\nIn November, 2005, the swing's seat and 2 feet of the swing's chains were removed. This was supposedly the work of vandals. Two people named Vince and Kai replaced it on December 13 of the same year. The new swing seat bore a date, signatures, and has writing on it: “The Secret Swing belongs to the people of Toronto.”\n\nThe swing installation came to an end in March 2006 when both the swing and the bar holding it up were removed and a fence installed to block the entrance to the space where the swing was installed. This may have been done to thwart any future attempts to replace the swing, as well as deter homeless people from sleeping in the space between buildings.\n"}
{"id": "429839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429839", "title": "Serious Fraud Office (United Kingdom)", "text": "Serious Fraud Office (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Serious Fraud Office (SFO) is a non-ministerial government department of the Government of the United Kingdom that investigates and prosecutes serious or complex fraud and corruption in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The SFO is accountable to the Attorney General for England and Wales, and was established by the Criminal Justice Act 1987, an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. Section 2 of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 grants the SFO special compulsory powers to require any person (or business/bank) to provide any relevant documents (including confidential ones) and answer any relevant questions including ones about confidential matters. The SFO is the principal enforcer of the Bribery Act 2010, which has been designed to encourage good corporate governance and enhance the reputation of the City of London and the UK as a safe place to do business. Its jurisdiction does not extend to Scotland where fraud and corruption are investigated by Police Scotland through their Specialist Crime Division, and prosecutions are undertaken by the Economic Crime Unit of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service.\n\nDuring the 1970s and early 1980s a series of financial scandals in the City of London destroyed the public's trust in the way serious or complex frauds were handled. In response to this the Government established the Fraud Trials Committee in 1983. This independent committee, under the chairmanship of Lord Roskill, considered how changes to the law and criminal proceedings could lead to more effective ways of fighting fraud. The committee report, commonly known as 'the Roskill Report' was published in 1986. Its main recommendation was to set up a new, unified organisation responsible for detecting, investigating and prosecuting serious fraud cases. As a result, the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) and its unique powers were created by the Criminal Justice Act 1987. It opened for business in April 1988. The SFO also enforces the UK Bribery Act 2010.\n\nThe Al-Yamamah arms deal during the 1980s was a large scale aircraft and weapons deal between the UK and Saudi Arabia. It was extended throughout the 1990s and saw thousands of UK citizens living and working in Saudi Arabia representing £40bn worth of business. BAE Systems Plc was the primary contractor. In 2004 the SFO began to investigate the contracts within the al-Yamamah deal on the grounds of suspected false accounting, but the investigation was controversially dropped in 2006. The decision was made following concerns about national security amidst reports that the Saudi Government would stop sharing counterterrorist information with the UK if the investigation continued. This drew criticism from number of sources, not least from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). A High Court review in 2008 ruled that the SFO had acted unlawfully by dropping the corruption investigation but was later overturned on appeal by the SFO to the House of Lords.\n\nIn 2008, an official internal \"Review of the Serious Fraud Office\", which was conducted by a former senior New York City prosecutor, compared the SFO unfavourably with two of its counterparts in New York City: the offices of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York and the New York County District Attorney. It found that the American prosecutors obtained higher conviction rates in a shorter amount of time with fewer resources. It also found that the SFO had significantly lower conviction rates than elite divisions of the UK Crown Prosecution Service. It attributed the SFO's relatively poor performance to, among other things, failure to keep all court advocacy \"in-house\", failure to assign each case a single lawyer who managed it \"from cradle to grave\", failure to interview witnesses at an early stage, and failure to co-operate closely with the police.\n\nWhile Home Secretary, Theresa May expressed that she wanted the National Crime Agency (NCA) to absorb the SFO. While the SFO is supervised by the Attorney General’s Office, the NCA is overseen by Home Office. From around 2005 to 2017, the SFO underwent a series of budget cuts. On May 18, 2017, the Tories released a manifesto pledging to dismantle the Serious Fraud Office and roll it into the NCA if they won the general elections in June 2017. The manifesto claimed that the incorporation would \"strengthen Britain’s response to white collar crime by... improving intelligence sharing and bolstering the investigation of serious fraud, money laundering and financial crime.\"\n\nIn 1986 there were rumours that the Guinness Brewery takeover of the Distillers Company was tainted by an unlawful share support operation which involved Guinness offering secret indemnities (from its own funds) against losses to people ‘supporting’ the bid which resulted in a dramatic rise in the price of Guinness shares.\n\nHaving examined the bid, the SFO opened an investigation which led to the conviction in 1990 of the then chief executive of Guinness and three other defendants.\n\nAl Yamamah is the name of a series of a record arms sales by the United Kingdom to Saudi Arabia. In 2006, An investigation by the British Serious Fraud Office into the deal was discontinued after political pressure from the Saudi and British governments.\n\nIn 1999 British Aerospace Defence Systems Ltd agreed a contract with the Government of Tanzania for the supply of a radar defence system. A local businessman in Tanzania was recruited to advise BAE on its negotiations with the Government on the radar contract.\n\nBetween January 2000 and December 2005 around $12.4 million was paid to the local businessman's two companies. BAE has accepted that there was a high probability that part of this sum would be used to favour it in the contract negotiations with the Tanzanian Government.\n\nThe payments were not subject to proper and adequate scrutiny or review and BAE Systems Plc was subsequently fined £500,000 after admitting that it had failed to keep adequate accounting records of the defence contract with the Government of Tanzania. This outcome followed a settlement by BAE, as part of a global agreement reached in 2010 with the Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, concerning contracts in a number of countries. The settlement with the SFO relates to the Tanzanian contract. The terms of the settlement include an agreement by BAE to pay an \"ex-gratia\" sum (£30 million less any fine imposed by the Crown Court) for the benefit of the people of Tanzania. BAE was also ordered to pay £225,000 costs to the SFO.\n\nIn June 2017, John Varley, Roger Jenkins, Tom Kalaris and Richard Boath were charged with offences regarding Barclays's raising of £11.8 billion in emergency funds. The fraud was alleged to have taken place around the financial crisis of 2007–2008.\n\nThe BCCI Bank was a Luxembourg-registered bank that collapsed in 1992. It was discovered by the bank's auditors, that the bank was running on loss for many years. It was reported that the bank was involved in drug-trafficking, money-laundering and phony loans. The key player in the collapse was Pakistani shipping magnate Abbas Gokal. It was discovered that Gokal's company, Gulf Shipping Lines, had gotten a US$1.2 billion unsecured loan from the bank. When the bank collapsed and the scandal emerged, Gokal escaped to Pakistan. It was hard to get him because the United Kingdom and Pakistan had no extradition treaty. Gokal was making a trip to America in 1994. When his plane stopped for re-fueling in Frankfurt, German police arrested him and extradited him to the United Kingdom. He was handed a 14-year sentence as a result of the SFO prosecution, the longest sentence handed out in a British court for fraud.\n\nAs one of the Law Officers' Departments, the SFO reports to the Attorney General of the UK. The SFO is unique in that its role is to both investigate and prosecute. Its case teams are therefore made up of investigators, lawyers, law clerks and forensic accountants. The SFO employs around 500 people. The cost of running the SFO in the financial year 2010–11 was 64p for each member of the British public. Over 80 per cent of staff are specialist caseworkers. When deciding what action to take, lawyers in the SFO must bear in mind the Prosecutors Code.\n\nThe SFO is a specialist organisation that investigates only the most serious types of economic crime. As a result, a potential case must meet certain criteria before it is taken on. In deciding, the Director will take into account all the circumstances of the case and consider:\n\nThe Serious Fraud Office's jurisdiction does not extend to Scotland where fraud and corruption are investigated by Police Scotland through their Specialist Crime Division, and prosecutions are undertaken by the Economic Crime Unit of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service.\n\nThe SFO investigates and prosecutes fraud. The SFO prosecutes different types of fraud, including investment fraud. Among the types of investment fraud prosecuted are boiler room fraud (share scams), which is an operation, usually run from abroad, where scammers typically cold-call people and use hard-sell tactics to sell shares that prove worthless, are inflated in price, or don't exist. The SFO cites Vintage Wines of St Albans as an example of a successful boiler room fraud prosecution. The SFO also prosecutes the investment schemes called 'Ponzi' or pyramid schemes, which typically involves an investment offer which promises to provide an abnormally higher rate of return. In a Ponzi scheme, a single operator benefits, while in a pyramid scheme, many investors benefit from recruiting other investors. The SFO has cited the KF Concept case as an example of one of its successful ponzi scheme prosecutions, where a banker was jailed for 10 years for running an unauthorized investment business and defrauding investors of amounts over £17 million.\n\nThe SFO also prosecutes multiple types of corporate fraud. The SFO website as of 2013 outlined several types of fraud it classified as corporate, including asset stripping, which involved company directors taking company funds or assets of value while leaving behind the debts. Other types of persecuted corporate fraud include fraudulent trading, where a company carries on a business for any fraudulent purposes. An example of a successful SFO prosecution for fraudulent trading is the InterGB group, the collective name for a number of companies that, between 1996 and 2000, extracted more than £85 million from three financial institutions by submitting false invoices. The chairman of the group was jailed for seven years. Also persecuted are share ramping. Also known as 'pump and dump' or 'book ramping', is where criminals influence the share price of a company and then take advantage of the price fluctuations. Publishing false information is also persecuted as corporate crime. According to the SFO, this is usually done to mislead investors and creditors and to keep a failing company trading.\n\nAccording to the SFO, corruption is where the integrity of a person, Government, or company is manipulated and compromised for personal gain. SFO classifies and prosecutes two main types of corruption. It defines political corruption as the dysfunction of a political system or institution in which government officials, political officials or employees look for illegitimate personal gain through actions such as bribery, extortion, cronyism, patronage and embezzlement. It defines corporate corruption as where, for example, bribes are offered to agencies/ institutions/individuals in order to win a contract. It brought up Innospec Limited, manufacturers of a fuel additive, as an example of a successful prosecution for corporate corruption.\n\nThe SFO has a dedicated International Assistance team which regularly assists law enforcement agencies worldwide with their investigations. In 2010–11 the SFO assisted over 30 different jurisdictions.\n\nAccording to the SFO, victims are at the core of its strategy. They include any person, organisation, or Government both in the UK and abroad, which has suffered direct financial loss from the most serious and complex fraud, or corruption.\n\nThe SFO tries to get justice for victims by recovering as much recompense as possible for victims. In April 2011, £64 million of funds were, or were due to be returned to victims. The average jail sentence handed out in SFO cases was 56 months in 2010-11. For example, in 2011 three fraudsters running the online Xclusive ticket fraud (that failed to deliver tickets to the Beijing Olympics and various music festivals) each received prison sentences of up to eight years. The SFO started confiscation proceedings to recover money for victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "5872510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5872510", "title": "Seychellois Creole people", "text": "Seychellois Creole people\n\nThe Seychellois Creole people are residents who are native to Seychelles, irrespective of ancestry.\n\nThe majority of the people living in the Seychelles are referred to as creole. They are mainly of East African and Malagasy origin. However, some are also of mixed East African, Malagasy, Indian, Chinese and French origins.\n\nOriginally, Africans and Austronesian people migrated to Seychelles to work on sugar and coffee plantations. Some were slaves that last to be introduced to the Indian Ocean. Their origins lie in Africa, and to a lesser extent, Madagascar.\n\nToday, Creoles are dispersed throughout Seychelles. They number roughly 76,000, which is more than 70% of the entire Seychellois population. Creoles are the dominant group in politics.\n\nThe Seychellois music genre of Sega is known as \"Moutia\".\n\nSeychellois Creoles are proud of their African heritage and set up a Creole institute in Mahé to help promote their culture and to help others understand it. Unlike Mauritius, where Creole has no official status, the Seychelles have made Creole one of their three official languages, along with French and English.\n\nLike most of the country's population, the majority of the Creoles identify as Christians. Most of them are Catholic, with Protestant, Anglican, Adventist and other Christian denominations in the minority. The remainder of the population are either Hindu or Islamic. Seychellois Creole is the commonly spoken language, but French and English are also widely understood.\n"}
{"id": "53177919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53177919", "title": "Shooting of Johnny Robinson", "text": "Shooting of Johnny Robinson\n\nJohnny Robinson (1947–1963) was a young African-American man who, at age 16, was shot and killed by a police officer in the unrest following the 16th Street Church Bombing in Birmingham, Alabama. Robinson and several others were allegedly throwing rocks at a car draped with a Confederate flag. A Birmingham police officer, Jack Parker, who was riding in the back seat of a police car, shot and killed Robinson. Parker was never indicted for the killing and claimed that he had only fired a warning shot, and that a stray pellet must have killed Robinson.\n\nJohnny Robinson was born in 1947 and had a difficult upbringing in Birmingham, as the city had seen 50 racially driven bombings from 1945 to 1963. He was the oldest of three children and attended the Alberta Shields School. A few years prior to his death, Robinson's father was murdered by a neighbor, leaving his mother alone to raise her children in a city fraught with racial violence. Robinson had juvenile record. At 13 years old he was arrested on suspicion of burglary and grand larceny.\n\nEarly on Sunday morning, September 15, 1963, a Ku Klux Klan member placed a bomb with a timing device under the side steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church, which had served as the headquarters for the Birmingham Children's Crusade during April and early May. Two hundred worshipers were expected in the church that day and after the bomb detonated in the late morning, three 14-year-old girls and an 11-year-old girl were found killed, with twenty-two wounded. The incident prompted civil unrest that was further provoked by the shooting deaths of two young black men that day: 16-year-old Johnny Robinson, and 13-year-old Virgil Ware.\n\nWare had been riding on the handlebars of his brother's bicycle when he was shot twice with a revolver by Larry Joe Sims, a white 16-year-old who supported the segregationist movement. Earlier that day, Sims had joined a fellow teenager, Michael Lee Farley, at the headquarters for the National States' Rights Party and set out to cruise the neighborhood together. Sims was later charged with first-degree murder but was convicted of second-degree manslaughter, while Farley pled guilty to second-degree manslaughter. Both teens were sentenced to seven months in jail, which was changed to two years probation.\n\nRobinson was about to join his sister for Sunday dinner, but had accompanied his friends to a gas station that was not far from the 16th Street Baptist Church. Several Caucasian men drove by, yelling racial slurs, waving Confederate flags, and throwing bottles. Robinson and his friends allegedly retaliated by throwing rocks at the cars. A police car then arrived on the scene; a police officer named Jack Parker was in the back seat, pointing a shotgun out the window. Parker later gave two differing accounts of the event, as he both claimed to have fired a warning shot and that the gun went off accidentally. Witnesses claimed to have heard two shots.\n\nParker was white, as were all Birmingham Police officers at that time. He had joined the police force in 1951 and was 48 years old when he shot Robinson. At the time he was also the head of a Fraternal Order of Police.\n\nAfter a week of funerals related to the bombing, co-founder of the Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights Nelson Smith remarked that their people would be hard to restrain when they were still under active threat of bombings.\n\nTwo grand juries refused to indict Parker, claiming that there were no reliable witness accounts. Not long after the shooting, he signed a newspaper advertisement advocating against integrating the police department of Birmingham. He resigned 10 years after the shooting.\n"}
{"id": "36730827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36730827", "title": "Telugu Braille", "text": "Telugu Braille\n\nTelugu Braille is one of the Bharati braille alphabets, and it largely conforms to the letter values of the other Bharati alphabets.\n\nThe alphabet is as follows. Vowel letters are used rather than diacritics, and they occur after consonants in their spoken order. For orthographic conventions, see Bharati Braille.\n\nThere is a single pre-formed conjunct,\nand the full range of syllable codas,\nSee Bharati Braille#Punctuation.\n"}
{"id": "38859742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38859742", "title": "Tupiq", "text": "Tupiq\n\nThe tupiq (plural: \"tupiit\", Inuktitut syllabics: ᑐᐱᖅ) is a traditional Inuit tent made from seal or caribou skin. Inuit must kill 5 to 10 \"ugjuk\" (bearded seals) to make a sealskin tent. If a man goes hunting for four to five, he would bring a small tent made out of five \"ugjuit\". A family tent would be made of ten or more \"ugjuit\".\n\nAfter the bearded seal is killed, its fat is scraped off, then the skin is stretched to dry. Finally, women will sew it together to make a tent.\n\nThe tupiq was used on the land not on the sea ice. It was portable for travel and lasted several years. When stored over the winter, the tupiq had to be kept away from dogs. In the summer the tupiq was used as shelter, then in the fall when it got colder, the Inuit moved into sod houses (\"qammaq\") and the tupiq was used for the roof. In winter, the Inuit lived in \"igluit\" when the snow was good enough to build them. Then in the spring when the iglu melted, they moved back into the tupiq.\n\nThe tupiq was important traditionally, but is rarely used in modern times. Today most Inuit use canvas tents called \"tupikhaq\".\n"}
{"id": "17113376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17113376", "title": "Turku City Library", "text": "Turku City Library\n\nTurku City Library (, ) is a municipal library service in Turku, Finland which includes several branch libraries and Turku Main Library which is located in the city centre of Turku and is a combination of new building (built in 2007) and the old main library building (built in 1903). The old building was under renovation and reopened in autumn 2008. In 2011, the amount of annual visitors at Turku City Library was about 1,9 million with 3,1 million loans.\n\nIn addition to Turku Main Library, the following branches are a part of Turku City Library:\n\n"}
{"id": "1064845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064845", "title": "Turncoat", "text": "Turncoat\n\nA turncoat is a person who shifts allegiance from one loyalty or ideal to another, betraying or deserting an original cause by switching to the opposing side or party. In political and social history, this is distinct from being a traitor, as the switch mostly takes place under the following circumstances:\n\nFrom a military perspective, opposing armies generally wear uniforms of contrasting colors to prevent incidents of Friendly fire. Thus the term \"turn-coat\" indicates that an individual has changed sides and his uniform coat to one matching the color of his former enemy. For example, in the English Civil War during the 17th century, Oliver Cromwell's soldiers turned their coats inside out to match the colours of the Royal army (see Examples below).\n\nEven in a modern historical context \"turncoat\" is often synonymous with the term \"renegade\", a term of religious origins having its origins in the Latin word \"renegare\" (to deny). Historical currents of great magnitude have periodically caught masses of people, along with their leaders, in their wake. In such a dire situation new perspectives on past actions are laid bare and the question of personal treason becomes muddled. One example would be the situation that led to the Act of Abjuration or \"Plakkaat van Verlatinghe\", signed on July 26, 1581 in the Netherlands, an instance where changing sides was given a positive meaning.\n\nThe first written use of the term meaning was by J. Foxe in \"Actes & Monumentes\" in 1570: \"One who changes his principles or party; a renegade; an apostate.\" Cited 1571*\n\n\"Turncoat\" could also have a more literal origin. According to the Rotuli Chartarum 1199–1216 two barons changed fealty from William Marshal, 1st Earl of Pembroke, to King John. In other words, they turned their coats (of arms) from one lord to another, hence turncoat.\n\nA mass-shift in allegiance by a population may take place during military occupation, after a nation has been defeated in war or after a major social upheaval, such as a revolution. Following the initial traumatic times many of the citizens of the area in question quickly embrace the cause of the victors to benefit from the new system. This shift of allegiance is often done without much knowledge about the new order that is replacing the former one. In the face of fear and insecurity, the prime motive for a turncoat to draw away from former allegiances may be mere survival.\n\nOften the leaders are the first to change loyalties, for they have had access to privileged information and are more aware of the hopelessness of the situation for their former cause. This is especially apparent in dictatorships and authoritarian states when most of the population has been fed propaganda and triumphalism and has been kept in the dark about important turns of events.\n\nAs time goes by, along with the embracing of life under the new circumstances comes a need of burying and rewriting the past by concealing evidence. The fear of the past coming to upset the newly found stability is always present in the mind of the turncoat. The past is rewritten and whitewashed to cover former deeds. When successful, this activity results in the distortion and falsification of historical events.\n\nEven after the death of a turncoat his family and friends may wish to keep uncomfortable secrets from the past out of the light. There is a fear of loss of prestige as well as a wish to honor the memory of a family member from the part of those who have experienced the positive side of the person.\n\nIn certain countries, individuals and organizations have actively investigated the past to bring turncoats to justice to face their responsibilities.\n\nThere were many turncoats in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16369168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16369168", "title": "Ukrainian Red Cross Society", "text": "Ukrainian Red Cross Society\n\nUkrainian Red Cross Society () is a non-profit humanitarian and charitable association of Ukraine. It operates in disaster management, health and care, tracing service, youth activities/volunteers, protection of human dignity.\n\nThe Ukrainian Red Cross Society was established on April 17-18, 1918 in Kiev as an independent humanitarian society of the Ukrainian People's Republic. Its immediate tasks were to help refugees and prisoners of war, care of handicapped people, orphaned children, fighting famine and epidemics, support and organize sick quarters, hospitals and public canteens.\n\nFrom the 1920s, when Ukrainian territory was integrated part of the Soviet Union, and until 1992, the Ukrainian Red Cross functioned as a part of the Soviet Red Cross.\n\nWhen the structure of the UPA was unified in 1943, the Ukrainian Red Cross was re-established as a separate body from the Soviet Red Cross. The service provided care for the sick and wounded UPA soldiers, attracted well-qualified doctors, prepared the supply and manufacture of medicine, equipped underground hospitals and conducted training classes for new physicians and soldiers of the UPA and prepared special medical manuals. Doctors worked in regional military hospitals which treated the wounded who had suffered from the attacks of German, Soviet or Polish punitive groups.\n\nThe Red Cross law was passed by the Ukrainian parliament in 1999.\n\nIn 2001, the Ukrainian Red Cross involved more than 6.3 million of supporters and activists. Its Visiting Nurses Service has 3200 qualified nurses. The organization takes part in more than 40 humanitarian programmes all over Ukraine, which are mostly funded by public donation and corporate partnerships. By its own estimations, the Society annually provides services to more than 105 000 of lonely elderly people, about 23 000 of people disabled during the Second World War and handicapped workers, more than 25 000 of war veterans, and more than 8 000 of adults handicapped since childhood. The assistance for orphaned and disabled children is also rendered.\n\nUkrainian Red Cross Society (since 1993) is a member of the International Federation of Red Cross/Red Crescent Societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4053801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4053801", "title": "Upper Aulaqi Sheikhdom", "text": "Upper Aulaqi Sheikhdom\n\nThe Upper Aulaqi Sheikhdom ( \"\") was a state in the British Aden Protectorate, the Federation of Arab Emirates of the South, and its successor, the Federation of South Arabia. Its capital was Sa'id. The area of the former state is now central part of the Shabwah Governorate of the Republic of Yemen.\n\nThe Lower Aulaqi sultans separated from the Upper Aulaqi in the 18th century and the Upper Aulaqi sheikhs of Said made themselves gradually independent from the Upper Aulaqi Sultanate of Nisab during the same period. In the late 19th century, the area came under British influence and eventually the Upper Aulaqi Sheikhdom became a constituent of the Aden Protectorate. It was a founding member of the Federation of Arab Emirates of the South in 1959 and its successor, the Federation of South Arabia, in 1963.\n\nThe last sheikh, Amir Abd Allah ibn Muhsin al Yaslami Al Aulaqi, was deposed on 28 August 1967 and his state was abolished in November 1967 upon the founding of the People's Republic of South Yemen.\n\nThe rulers of the Upper Aulaqi Sheikhdom bore the title \"Shaykh al-Mashyakha al-`Awlaqiyya al-`Ulya\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533187", "title": "Women in Iran", "text": "Women in Iran\n\nWomen in Iran discusses the history, contribution, aspects, and roles of women in Iran. Women have always played fundamental, crucial, and representative roles in the long history of Iran.\n\nArcheological excavations at Shahr-e Sookhteh \"Burnt City,\" a prehistoric settlement in the Sistan-Baluchistan province of southeastern Iran, have revealed that the women of the 4th–3rd millennium BCE community maintained a high level of socio-economic status. Of the seals discovered in graves there, 90% were in the possession of women, who in turn made up over 60% of the population. The distribution of the seals, which as instruments of trade and government represented economic and administrative control, reveals that these women were the more powerful group in their prehistoric society.\n\nThe early Achaemenid-era Persepolis fortification and treasury tablets refers to women in three different terms: \"mutu\", \"irti\" and \"duksis\". The first refers to ordinary (non-royal) women; the second to unmarried members of the royal family; and the last \"duksis\" to married women of royalty. Such differentiated terminology shows the significance of marital status and of a woman's relationship to the king. The tablets also reveal that women of the royal household traveled extensively and often personally administered their own estates. The queen and her ladies-in-waiting are known to have played polo against the emperor and his courtiers. The only limits on the extent of the authority exercised by the king's mother were set by the monarch himself.\n\nIn the tablets, \"non-royals and the ordinary workers are mentioned by their rank in the specific work group or workshops they were employed. The rations they received are based on skill and the level of responsibility they assumed in the workplace. The professions are divided by gender and listed according to the amount of ration. Records indicate that some professions were undertaken by both sexes while others were restricted to either male or female workers. There are male and female supervisors at the mixed workshops as evident by the higher rations they have received with little difference in the amount of rations between the two sexes. There are also occasions where women listed in the same category as men received less rations and vice versa. Female managers have different titles presumably reflecting their level of skill and rank. The highest-ranking female workers in the texts are called \"arashshara\" (great chief). They appear repeatedly in the texts, were employed at different locations and managed large groups of women, children and sometimes men working in their units. They usually receive high rations of wine and grains exceeding all the other workers in the unit including the males.\" \n\nCyrus the Great, who twelve centuries before Islam, established the custom of covering women to protect their chastity. According to their theory, the veil passed from the Achaemenids to the Hellenistic Seleucids. They, in turn, handed it to the Byzantines, from whom the Arab conquerors inherited it as hijab, transmitting it over the vast reaches of the Muslim world.\n\nThe Sassanid princess Purandokht, daughter of Khosrau II, ruled the Persian empire for almost two years before resigning. Also, during the Sassanian dynasty many of the Iranian soldiers who were captured by Romans were women who were fighting along with the men.\n\nPersian women are depicted in many masterpieces of Persian miniatures. These are often used as sources to \"trace through the sequence of women's fashion from earlier periods\".\n\nAt the Battle of Ctesiphon (363) the victorious Roman soldiers prized young Persian women, seizing them as war booty.\n\nDuring the Qajar dynasty (1789–1925), Malek Jahan Khanom as queen mother exerted serious political influence during the reign of her son, from 1848 until her death in 1873.\n\nThe Pahlavi Shahs were the rulers of Iran between 1925 and 1979 and they introduced many reforms concerning women's rights. An example of an early reform introduced by Reza Shah was the 'forced unveiling of women by a special decree on January 8, 1936 which, as the name suggests, involved the police force pulling the hijab away even from religious women, by force.' \n\nUnder Reza Shah's successor Mohammad Reza Shah many more significant reforms were introduced. For example, in 1963, the Shah granted female suffrage and soon after women were elected to the Majlis (the parliament) and the upper house, and appointed as judges and ministers in the cabinet.'. In 1967 Iranian family law was also reformed which improved the position of women in Iranian society. It was included in the civil code and was designed to protect wives, children and female divorcees. The general thrust of the reforms were to promote equality between men and women in society.\n\nThe Family Protection Laws of 1967 and 1973 required a husband to go to court to divorce rather than simply proclaim the triple talaq of \"I divorce thee\" three times, as stipulated by traditional sharia law. It allowed a wife to initiate divorce and required the first wife's permission for a husband to take a second wife. Child custody was left to new family protection courts rather than automatically granted to the father. The minimum age at which a female could marry was raised from 13 to 15 in 1967 and to 18 in 1975.\n\nFollowing the 1979 Iranian Revolution Iran became an Islamic Republic. One of the striking features of the revolution was the large scale participation of women from traditional backgrounds in demonstrations leading up to the overthrow of the monarchy. The Iranian women who had gained confidence and higher education under Pahlavi era participated in demonstrations against Shah to topple the Monarchial government. The culture of education for women was established by the time of the revolution so that even after the revolution, large numbers of women entered civil service and higher education. I\n\nIn 1996, 14 women were elected to the Islamic Consultative Assembly.\nBy 1999, Iran had 140 female publishers, enough to hold an exhibition of books and magazines published by women. \n\nAs of 2005, 65 percent of Iran's university students and 43 percent of its salaried workers were women. \n\nAs of early 2007, nearly 70 percent of Iran's science and engineering students are women.\n\nIn 2009 Fatemeh Bodaghi became Vice President for Legal Affairs and a top advisor to President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad. Maryam Mojtahidzadeh who runs the women's ministry was also selected as an advisor to the president.\n\nThere are also women in the Iranian police who deal with crimes committed by women and children. According to opinion of Supreme Leader of Iran, Ali Khamenei, giving opportunity for develop woman's talents in the family and society is respecting to the woman.\n\nWomen in Iran were granted the right to vote in 1963. They were first admitted to Iranian universities in 1937. Since then, several women have held high-ranking posts in the government or parliament. Before and after the 1979 revolution, several women were appointed ministers or ambassadors. Farrokhroo Parsa was the first woman to be appointed Minister of Education in 1968 and Mahnaz Afkhami was appointed Minister for Women's Affairs in 1976.\n\nSome, such as Tahereh Saffarzadeh, Masumeh Ebtekar, Azam Taleghani, Fatemeh Haghighatjou, Elaheh Koulaei, Fatemeh Javadi, Marzieh Dabbaq and Zahra Rahnavard came after the revolution. Other Iranian women, including Goli Ameri and Farah Karimi hold positions in Western countries.\n\nThere are currently 17 women in parliament, of a total of 290 parliamentarians. This was up from nine in the previous elections.\n\nCurrently there are several all-female political organizations active in Iran, including:\nFormal education for women in Iran began in 1907 with the establishment of the first primary school for girls. Education held an important role in Iranian society, especially as the nation began a period of modernization under the authority of Reza Shah Pahlavi in the early 20th century when the number of women's schools began to grow. By mid-century, legal reforms granting women the right to vote and raising the minimum age for marriage offered more opportunities for women to pursue education outside the home. After periods of imposed restrictions, women's educational attainment continued its rise through the Islamification of education following the Iranian Revolution of 1979, peaking in the years following radical changes in the curriculum and composition of classrooms. By 1989, women dominated the entrance examinations for college attendance.\n\nWomen's participation in education has not slowed despite efforts to impose restrictions on the increasingly female-dominated educational sphere. The changes in women's education have split into increased usage and dominance of the opportunities available to women, and the imposition of strict requirements governing their role in education, including gender-segregated classes, Islamic dress, and the channeling of women into \"feminine\" majors that prevent the pursuit of certain careers.\n\nIlliteracy among women has been on a decrease since 1970 when it was 54 percent to the year 2000 when it was 17.30 percent. Iranian female education went from a 46 percent literacy rate, to 83 percent. Iran ranked 10th in terms of female literacy in the 1970s, and still holds this position today.\n\nAccording to UNESCO world survey, at primary level of enrollment Iran has the highest female to male ratio in the world among sovereign nations, with a girl to boy ratio of 1.22 : 1.00. According to UNESCO data from 2012, Iran has more female students in engineering fields than any other country in the world.\n\nSince the 1970s Iran has experienced significant economic and social changes. Women's workforce participation rate went from 9.1 percent in 1996 to 14 percent in 2004 to 31.9 in 2009. That is a 22.8 percent increase in 13 years. Women make up over half of the Iranian population, yet they make up a small percentage of the work force. Official statistics reported by the Census Bureau suggest that women's labor force participation remains quite low. Women make up almost 30 percent of the Iranian labor force, and the percentage of all Iranian women who are economically active has more than doubled from 6.1 percent in 1986 to 13.7 percent in 2000. In 2004, there were 18 million people employed in Iran, Women made up only 12.9 percent (or roughly 2,160,000) of the employed population. Men on the other hand made up 64 percent, or roughly 11,520,000. The ILO data, however, suggest that female unemployment has been consistently higher than men's in recent years (Olmsted). Women are concentrated in the typically female jobs of teaching and caring. 82.7 percent of female civil servants work in teaching and education followed by administrative, financial, clerical, health and medical professions. However, according to the International Labour Organization, the top three areas of female employment are agriculture, manufacturing, and education. A factor in the increase in women's employment is an increase in their literacy rates. The illiteracy among women has been on a decrease since 1970 when it was 54 percent to the year 2000 when it was 17.30 percent. Iranian female education went form a 46 percent literacy rate, to 83 percent. Iran ranked 10th in terms of female literacy in the 1970s, and still holds this position today. Women's labor force participation rate and literacy rate has been on the rise. Yet the unemployment rate for women compared to that of men is still considerably higher. Take, for example, that in 1996, the unemployment rate for women was 13.4 percent whereas for men, the unemployment rate was 8.4 percent. The unemployment rate for both men and women has increased since 1996, with the gender gap in unemployment still present. In 2008 for example, male unemployment was 9.1 percent and female was 16.7 percent\n\nStudies concerning female labor force participation vary. One factor to this is the difference between measurements. The Iranian Census provides one measurement for labor force participation, and the Labor Force survey provides another. The Iranian census for example, used different ages for the cut off age, 10 for the 1976 census, and used 6 for the 1986 census (Olmsted) While the International Labour Organization uses 15. The World Bank and International Labour Organization have different data on recent female employment; the ILO reports an employment rate of 17.1 percent which is considerably higher than that of the World Bank. Overall, there seems to be a common upward trend in employment over time.\n\nWomen in Iran had previously been restricted to the private sphere, which includes the care of the home and the children, they have been restricted from mobility, and they needed their husband's permission in order to obtain a job. Employers depict women as less reliable in the workforce as opposed to men. However, the Islamic Revolution had some influence in changing this perception. Secular feminists and the elite were not happy with the revolution, while other feminists such as Roksana Bahramitash argue that the revolution did bring women into the public sphere. The 1979 Revolution had gained widespread support from women who were eager to earn rights for themselves. A woman's responsibility and obligation was in the home, which was the underlying basis of the Islamic Republic. Olmsted adds to this by stating that women have this \"double burden.\" In addition, men had the right to inhibit their wives from entering the labor force. Ali Akbar Mahdi is in agreement with Parvin Ghorayshi in that through the domestication of women and confinement to the private sphere, they were being exploited in non-wage activities. In Karimi's viewpoint, after the revolution, even though it had been accepted on paper that women had an equal right to employment, she believed that this did not show in practice. Comparing the pre-revolution and post-revolution era, between 1976 and 1986, the labor force participation of women had declined immensely from 12.9 percent down to 8.2 percent. In addition, during the 1990s, women were being compensated for their housework due to the domestic wage law which allowed women to demand compensation from their husbands for their housework in the event of a divorce.\n\nIn 1979 the United States imposed an economic boycott on Iran. In particular, the boycott affected the carpet industry. As a result, the boycott influenced women's participation in the labor force. Weaving is a common occupation for women, as it can be done inside the family home. If the market is volatile, merchants can simply remove or add looms to the worker's home in response to demand. Therefore, women who have children to take care of can be inside the home while tending to their work. Carpet weaving was very common among women from rural areas. Thus, carpet weaving was a valuable method of increasing the economic involvement of women in rural neighborhoods. In 1996, over 91 percent of the female industrial employees were in the textile industry which consisted largely of carpet weaving. Nonetheless, this all changed due to sanctions. Before the Islamic Revolution, Iranian firms were combined with firms in the United States where Iranians produced rugs for the United States market. However, due to the United States inflicting sanctions on Iran, Iranian imports were banned from the country. The demand for Iranian carpets was still high. In response, Americans bought carpets with Iranian designs from other countries that produced the same carpets, such as China and India. Again, from 1994 to 2005 the export of carpets had declined drastically. In 1994 they were selling over $2 million worth of carpets and then in 2005 it went down to under $500 in carpet exports. In other words, the total share of carpet in non-oil exports had declined from 44.2 percent to 4.2 percent; a drastic decrease. Olmsted concurs with Moghadam this would drastically affect women in the labor market, since the majority of carpet weavers consisted of less educated women.\n\nAccording to the 2012 \"Global Entrepreneurship Monitor report\", the rate of entrepreneurship in Iran for women between the ages 18 to 64 fluctuated from 4 to 6 percent between 2008 and 2012 while their overall economic participation makes up only 13 percent of the entire economy.\n\nThe movement for women's rights in Iran is particularly complex within the scope of the political history of the country. Women have consistently pushed boundaries of societal mores and were continually gaining more political and economic rights. Women heavily participated at every level of the revolution. Within months of the formation of the Islamic republic by Ruhollah Khomeini many important rights were repealed, but in mid-1980s replaced by a far more protective laws.\n\nIn 2003, Shirin Ebadi, Iran's first female judge in the Pahlavi era, won the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts in promoting human rights.\n\nDuring the last few decades, Iranian women have had significant presence in Iran's scientific movement, art movement, literary new wave and the new wave of Iranian cinema. According to the research ministry of Iran, about 6 percent of full professors, 8 percent of associate professors, and 14 percent of assistant professors were women in the 1998–99 academic year. However, women accounted for 56 percent of all students in the natural sciences, including one in five PhD students. In total 49.8 percent of the university students in Iran are women.\n\nWith the 2005 election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Western media said that women's rights declined. After Ahmadinejad's re-election in 2009, the first female minister was appointed.\n\nEvery year, people in Iran commemorate the national Women's Day and Mother's Day on the 20 Jumada al-Thani, which marks the birthday anniversary of Fatima Zahra (often referred to as a role model), Muhammad's daughter and the wife of Imam Ali. Many Iranians take the occasion of this holiday to thank and honor their mothers, grandmothers, wives and sisters and to spend more time with them. They pay tribute to them by giving them gifts.\n\nFor many centuries, since ancient pre-Islamic times, female headscarf was a normative dress code in the Greater Iran. First veils in region are historically attested in ancient Mesopotamia as a complementary garment, but later it became exclusionary and privileging in Assyria, even regulated by social law. Veil was a status symbol enjoyed by upper-class and royal women, while law prohibited peasant women, slaves and prostitutes from wearing the veil, and violators were punished. After ancient Iranians conquered Assyrian Nineveh in 612 BC and Chaldean Babylon in 539 BC, their ruling elite has adopted those Mesopotamian customs. During the reign of ancient Iranian dynasties, veil was first exclusive to the wealthy, but gradually the practice spread and it became standard for modesty. Later, after the Muslim Arabs conquered Sassanid Iran, early Muslims adopted veiling as a result of their exposure to the strong Iranian cultural influence.\n\nThis general situation did change somewhat in the Middle Ages after arrival of the Turkic nomadic tribes from Central Asia, whose women didn’t wear headscarves. However, after the Safavid centralization in the 16th century, the headscarf became defined as the standard head dress for the women in urban areas all around the Iranian Empire. Exceptions to this standard were seen only in the villages and among the nomads, so women without a headscarf could be found only among rural people and nomadic tribes (like Qashqai). Veiling of faces, that is, covering the hair and the whole face was very rare among the Iranians and was mostly restricted to the Arabs (niqab, battula and boushiya) and the Afghans (burqa). Later, during the economic crisis in the late 19th century under the Qajar dynasty, the poorest urban women could not afford headscarves due to the high price of textile and its scarcity. Owing to the aforementioned historical circumstances, the covering of hair has always been the norm in Iranian dress, and removing it was considered impolite, or even an insult. In the early 20th century, the Iranians associated not wearing it as something rural, nomadic, poor and non-Iranian.\n\nAttempts at changing the dress code (and perspectives toward it) occurred in mid-1930s when pro-Western autocratic ruler Reza Shah issued an arbitrary decree, banning all veils abruptly, swiftly and forcefully. Many types of male traditional clothing were also banned under the pretext that \"Westerners now wouldn’t laugh at us\". Western historians state that this would have been a progressive step if women had indeed chosen to do it themselves, but instead this ban humiliated and alienated many Iranian women, since its effect was comparable to the hypothetical situation in which the European women had suddenly been ordered to go out topless into the street. To enforce this decree, the police was ordered to physically remove the veil off of any woman who wore it in public. Women were beaten, their headscarves and chadors torn off, and their homes forcibly searched. Until Reza Shah's abdication in 1941, many women simply chose not leave their houses in order to avoid such embarrassing confrontations, and a few even committed suicide. Later, official measures relaxed slightly under next ruler and wearing of the headscarf or chador was no longer an offence, but for his regime it became a significant hindrance to climbing the social ladder as it was considered a badge of backwardness and an indicator of being a member of the lower class. Discrimination against the women wearing the headscarf or chador was still widespread with public institutions actively discouraging their use, and some eating establishments refusing to admit women who wore them. \n\nA few years prior to the Iranian revolution, a tendency towards questioning the relevance of Eurocentric gender roles as the model for Iranian society gained much ground among university students, and this sentiment was manifested in street demonstrations where many women from the previously non-veiled middle classes put on the veil and symbolically rejected the gender ideology of Pahlavi regime and its aggressive deculturalization. Many argued that veiling should be restored to stop further dissolution of the Iranian identity and culture, as from an Iranian point of view the unveiled women are seen as exploited by Western materialism and consumerism. Wearing of headscarf and chador was one of main symbols of the revolution, along with the resurgence and wearing of other traditional Iranian dresses. Headscarves and chadors were worn by all women as a religious and/or nationalistic symbols, and even many secular and Westernized women, who did not believe in wearing them before the revolution, began wearing them, in solidarity with the more religious women who always wore them. Wearing headscarves and chadors was used as a significant populist tool and Iranian veiled women played an important rule in the revolution's victory. Since Islamic dress was made mandatory for women in 1984, some Iranian women have attempted to come up with their own clothing styles within the confines of Islamic law. For example, a headscarf (rousari) combined with other colorful elements of clothing has become common, especially in urban areas. Iranian authorities in Tehran have recently indicated that the punishment for failing to comply with the Islamic dress code will be made less harsh. Women will no longer be arrested for \"improper hijab\", but will instead be made to attend classes given by police.\n\nOver the past two centuries, women have played a prominent role in Persian literature. Contemporary Iranian poets include Simin Behbahani, Forough Farrokhzad, Parvin Etesami. Simin Behbahani has written passionate love poems as well as narrative poetry enriched by a motherly affection for all humans. Behbahani is president of The Iranian Writers' Association and was nominated for the Nobel Prize in literature in 1997.\n\nContemporary authors include Simin Daneshvar, Mahshid Amirshahi, Shahrnush Pârsipur, Moniru Ravânipur and Zoya Pirzad to name a few. Daneshvar's work spans pre-Revolutionary and post-Revolutionary Iranian literature. Her first collection of short stories, \"Âtash-e khâmush\" (Fire Quenched), was published in 1948. It was the first collection of short stories published by a woman in Iran. In 1969, she published \"Savushun\" (Mourners of Siyâvash), a novel that reflected the Iranian experience of modernity during the 20th century. It was the first novel published by a woman in Iran. Daneshvar was the first president of the Iranian Writers' Association. Shahrnush Pârsipur became popular in the 1980s following the publication of her short stories. Her 1990 novel, \"Zanân bedûn-e Mardân\" (Women Without Men), addressed issues of sexuality and identity. It was banned by the Islamic Republic. Moniru Ravânipur's work includes a collection of short stories, \"Kanizu\" (The Female Slave), and her novel \"Ahl-e gharq\" (The People of Gharq). Ravânipur is known for her focus on rituals, customs and traditions of coastal life.\n\nPerhaps Qamar ol-Molouk Vaziri was the first female master of Persian music who introduced a new style of music and was praised by other masters of Persian music of the time. Several years later, Mahmoud Karimi trained women students—Arfa Atrai, Soosan Matloobi, Fatemeh Vaezi, Masoomeh Mehr-Ali and Soosan Aslani—who later became masters of Persian traditional music. Soodabeh Salem and Sima Bina developed Iranian children's music and Iranian folk music respectively.\n\nInnovations made by Iranian women are not restricted to Persian music. For instance, Lily Afshar is working on a combination of Persian and Western classical music.\n\nGoogoosh is one of the most famous Iranian singers. Her legacy dates back to pre-Revolutionary times in Iran, where her fame in Iran reached heights equivalent to Elvis Presley or Barbra Streisand. She became iconic when, after the 1979 Iranian Revolution, she lived unheard of for more than 20 years. In 2000, she emerged from Iran with an international tour.\n\nIranian women have played an important role in gaining international recognition for Iranian art and in particular Iranian cinema.\n\nSince the rise of the Iranian \"New Wave\" of Persian cinema, Iran has produced record numbers of film school graduates; each year more than 20 new directors, many of them women, make their debut films. In the last two decades, the percentage of Iranian film directors who are women has exceeded the percentage of women film directors in most Western countries. The success of the pioneering director Rakhshan Bani-Etemad suggests that many women directors in Iran were working hard on films long before director Samira Makhmalbaf made the headlines. Internationally recognized figures in Persian women's cinema are Tahmineh Milani, Rakhshan Bani-Etemad, Zahra Dowlatabadi, Niki Karimi, Samira Makhmalbaf, Mahin Oskouei, Pari Saberi, Hana Makhmalbaf, Pouran Rakhshandeh, Shirin Neshat, Sepideh Farsi, Maryam Keshavarz, Yassamin Maleknasr, and Sara Rastegar.\n\nIranian writer-director Rakhshan Bani-Etemad is probably Iran's best known and certainly most prolific female filmmaker. She has established herself as the elder stateswoman of Iranian cinema with documentaries and films about social pathology. One of the best-known female film directors in the country today is Samira Makhmalbaf, who directed her first film, \"The Apple\", when she was only 17 years old. Samira Makhmalbaf won the 2000 Cannes Jury Prize for \"Blackboards\", a film about the trials of two traveling teachers in Kurdistan.\n\nIn Persian literature one can find references to women as far back as Pre-Islamic times.\n\nAnd many creators of classical verse and prose were women themselves as well. One can mention Qatran Tabrizi, Rabia Balkhi, Táhirih, Simin Behbahani, Simin Daneshvar, Parvin E'tesami, Forough Farrokhzad, Mahsati and Mina Assadi in this group to name nine of them.\n\nIn Europe and the United States there is a pervasive stereotype about women in Iran and the Islamic World in general. They are perceived as helpless victims of a patriarchal system that oppresses and enslaves them. This image is reinforced through observations of female dress, and stories of female treatment in Islamic nations. Such distorted perspective was criticized by Ayatollah Khomeini, who argued:\n\nNo place in the Islamic World today has been more stigmatized for its alleged poor treatment of women than Iran. However, stereotypes of Iranian women promulgated in the West are hopelessly out of date. They ignore the extraordinary efforts that women have made on their own behalf to improve their lives. These efforts range from simple choices in clothing to more dramatic life choices in family composition, education, and career. According to William O. Beeman:\n\nDistorted perceptions about foreign women are also common inside Iran itself, where American and Western women are frequently seen as commodified objects of male desire. Although both Iranian and Western views are inaccurate, these images that frequently give the two peoples one of the most potent views of the other.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "642430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=642430", "title": "Yahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din", "text": "Yahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din\n\nYahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din (or Imam Yahya) (18 June 1869 – 17 February 1948) became Imam of the Zaydis in 1904 after the death of his father, Muhammad Al-Mansur, and Imam of Yemen in 1918. His name and title in full was His majesty Amir al-Mumenin al-Mutawakkil 'Ala Allah Rab ul-Alamin Imam Yahya bin al-Mansur Bi'llah Muhammad Hamidaddin, Imam and Commander of the Faithful (the prince of the believers, he who relies on God, the Lord of the Universe).\n\nYahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din was born on Friday 18 June 1869 in Sanaa into the Hamidaddin branch of the al-Qasimi dynasty who ruled most of Yemen proper and South Saudi Arabia today for over 900 years. Upon the death of his father in 1904, Yahya became Imam, effectively ruler over the mountainous areas of the future North Yemen. However, the Ottomans who made claim on the area did not recognize the rule of the Imams of Yemen since their entry into Yemen.\n\nSir Gilbert Clayton, who visited King Yahya in Sana'a in an earnest attempt to win him over in 1925 and during his short stay in the capital, was impressed by this ruler's administration, his military preparedness, and organization.\n\nLt Col. Harold Jacob, C.S.I. describing him said; \"Imam Yahya is a strong ruler. His sanctity as High Priest of the Zaidi sect and his descent from the Prophet's family adds to the prestige which his benign rule has won. His methods are patriarchal and humane. His one hobby is the Yemen\"\n\nJewish chronicles lavish praise upon him and depict him as the champion of justice and compassion. This is, however, not surprising. Imam Yahia managed to put an end to the state of anarchy, lawlessness and violence which had lacerated the country and inflicted immense suffering upon its inhabitants, including the Jews. During his long reign the Jews enjoyed relatively favorable conditions and were generally in favour of the Imam. \nIn 1911 Imam Yahya signed the Treaty of Daan with the Ottomans which recognised his rule over the Zaydi-controlled portions of Yemen.\n\nNews of the demise of the Ottoman Empire reached Yemen on Thursday 14 November 1918. Imam Yahya went to Sana'a three days later on Sunday 17 November 1918 to meet with tribal leaders from Hashid, Arhab, Nihm, and Khowlan. He arrived at the residence of the judge and scholar Hussein bin Ali Al Amri and received dignitaries, scholars, Turkish princes, judges, and a flood of subjects who proclaimed him the supreme ruler of all of Yemen.\n\nHis first order was to forbid entering the capital Sana'a with arms, and appointed sentries at the gates to start a reign of peace and justice unparalleled during the years of his rule. City after city accepted the rule and authority of Imam Yahya; the port of Mocha, and the city of Taiz were among the first most important cities. He took steps to create a modern state, and maintained all Ottoman officials who would stay to support the development of government.\n\nHe created a regular army in 1919 that enlisted soldiers from the surrounding tribes to Sana'a; from the tribes of Sanhan, Bani Harthi, and Bani Hushaish. He signed many treaties which recognised Yemen as a sovereign state, the first of which was the Italo-Yemeni Treaty in 1926.\n\nDue to conflicting tribes in the border areas between Saudi Arabia and Yemen that escalated into a war ensued that was ended in 1934 with the signing of the Taif Treaty between Saudi Arabia and Yemen. The treaty was the basis for the final territorial agreement between both countries concluded during the reign of King Fahd bin Abdulaziz and President Ali Abdullah Saleh.\n\nFrom 1934 until his assassination in 1948, Yahya redirected his energies toward internal consolidation of his authority and the creation of a viable central government, answerable to him personally. To this end, control of the hinterland was strengthened by the establishment of a standing army and the naming of his sons as governors of key provinces. Tighter control over affairs in San'a, the capital, was assured by expanding the scope of administrative functions and appointing other sons as supervisors of old and new political institutions . The regime sent Yemen's first students abroad : military cadets to Iraq in the 1930s and civilian students, the \"Famous Forty,\" to Lebanon in the late 1940s. An early attempt was made to introduce some direction to the nascent national economy by the establishment of a Yemen trading company. Even with these changes, Yahya's Yemen was a semi-feudal state in which even the most basic measures required his personal approval.\nImam Yahya was largely admired by the Jews of Yemen, who saw him as their patron and protector. Earlier, in 1906, the Jews of Sana'a had come out in full-force to welcome the Imam who returned to the city after the Turks had temporarily left it. However, by 1922, in response to outside pressure, Imam Yahya promulgated an edict that prohibited Yemeni Jewish emigration. Although the ban on emigration remained the official policy of the state until 1949, Jews were able to bypass its policy by secretly going into the British Protectorate of Aden. Throughout the early 1940s, Imam Yahya turned a blind eye to Jewish emigration, neither prohibiting it nor officially permitting it, but rather giving his unspoken consent to the departure of Jews from Sana'a and other central Yemeni settlements. After the Imam's assassination in 1948, this policy continued under his son Ahmad.\n\nImam Yahya was shot with his grandson by an assassin on 17 February 1948 in the Alwaziri coup. The assassin, known as Al-Qardaei, was from the Bani Murad tribe.\n\nUpon the knowledge of the murder of Imam Yahya, Yemeni tribes rallied behind Sayf-ul-Islam Ahmad bin Yahya and accepted him as the new Imam of Yemen. The armies surrounded Sanaa under the leadership of Seif Ul Islam Alhassan and Seif Ul Islam Alabbass, both sons of the late Imam, supported by their brother Seif Ul Islam Yahya from within the city walls.\n\nThe news shocked both the Arab League, and all Muslim governments. King Abdullah of Jordan compared his death to that of the third Khalifah Othman.\n\nBoth King Abdulaziz Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia, and himself supported Imam Ahmad, and were first to declare him as the new Head of State.\n\nYemen was a founding member of the Arab League in 1945, and later joined the United Nations in 1947.\n\nIn 1946 British opposition to Imam Yahya was led from Aden-based political parties.\n\nHe had 14 sons:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36853035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36853035", "title": "Yisrael Medad", "text": "Yisrael Medad\n\nYisrael Medad (born 1947) is an American-born Israeli journalist and author. He was director of Educational Programming and Information resources at the Menachem Begin Heritage Center in Jerusalem until June 2017 and has retired from that position. He is now engaged in editing an English-language annotated anthology of Ze'ev Jabotinsky's writings.\n\nMedad was born to a Jewish family in New York City. As a teenager, he became religious, and attended a religious high school. Medad joined the Betar Zionist youth movement, founded by the Revisionist Zionist leader, Ze'ev Jabotinsky in 1964. He graduated from Yeshiva University with a BA in Political Science in 1969. In 1970, he and his wife immigrated to Israel. Initially, he lived in the Jewish Quarter of Jerusalem, where he served as Director of the Betar Students' Hostel. Between 1975 and 1977, he served as a Betar representative in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1981, Medad and his family moved to the Israeli community of Shilo, in the Binyamin region of Samaria. From 1981 to 1992, he served as a parliamentary aide to Knesset member Geula Cohen, and as an Adviser of International Affairs to cabinet minister Yuval Ne'eman.\n\nIn 2008, he completed a Master's degree at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, specializing in Civic and Democracy Education.\n\nMedad is a member of the Executive Board of Israel's Media Watch.\n\nMedad has served as Senior Assistant to the Deputy Minister for Science and as a Legislative Aide to Knesset members. He is a well-known blogger and had contributed columns to the Los Angeles Times, Jerusalem Post, International Herald Tribune and other periodicals. He has been interviewed and profiled in the BBC, Haaretz\n\nMedad is co-editor of a collection of the Begin-Sadat correspondence that led up to the 1979 Israel-Egypt peace treaty.\n\nMedad and his wife have five children.\n\n"}
{"id": "788649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788649", "title": "Zabbix", "text": "Zabbix\n\nZabbix is an open-source monitoring software tool for diverse IT components, including networks, servers, virtual machines (VMs) and cloud services. Zabbix provides monitoring metrics, among others network utilization, CPU load and disk space consumption. Zabbix monitoring configuration can be done using XML based templates which contains elements to monitor. The software monitors operations on Linux, Hewlett Packard Unix (HP-UX), Mac OS X, Solaris and other operating systems (OSes); however, Windows monitoring is only possible through agents.\nZabbix can use MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Oracle or IBM DB2 to store data. Its backend is written in C and the web frontend is written in PHP. Zabbix offers several monitoring options: \n\nReleased under the terms of GNU General Public License version 2, Zabbix is free software.\nZabbix started as an internal software project in 1998. After three years, in 2001, it was released to the public under GPL, three years later until the first stable version, 1.0, was released in 2004.\n\n\nArchitecture\n\nMonitoring\n\nSecurity and authentication\n\nNotification capabilities\n\nZabbix is primarily developed by a Zabbix LLC company.\n\nZabbix consists of several separate modules:\n\nWhile the server, proxy and agents are written in C, the front-end is implemented in PHP and Javascript. A Java gateway is also available since Zabbix 2.0.\n\nSince the first stable version was released as 1.0, Zabbix versioning has used minor version numbers to denote major releases. Each minor release actually implements many new features, while change level releases mostly introduce bugfixes.\n\nZabbix version numbering scheme has changed over time. While the first two stable branches were 1.0 and 1.1, after 1.1 it was decided to use odd numbers for development versions and even numbers for stable versions. As a result, 1.3 followed 1.1 as a development release to be released as 1.4.\n\n\n\n"}
