{"id": "11573897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11573897", "title": "Abraham, Ethnus, Acrates, James, and John", "text": "Abraham, Ethnus, Acrates, James, and John\n\nAbraham, Ethnus, Acrates, James, and John are martyrs venerated in Ethiopia as saints. Their feast day is August 3 in the Coptic Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "749745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=749745", "title": "Aging brain", "text": "Aging brain\n\nAging is a major risk factor for most common neurodegenerative diseases, including mild cognitive impairment, dementias including Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular disease, Parkinson's disease and Lou Gehrig's disease. While much research has focused on diseases of aging, there are few informative studies on the molecular biology of the aging brain (usually spelled ageing brain in British English) in the absence of neurodegenerative disease or the neuropsychological profile of healthy older adults. However, research does suggest that the aging process is associated with several structural, chemical, and functional changes in the brain as well as a host of neurocognitive changes. Recent reports in model organisms suggest that as organisms age, there are distinct changes in the expression of genes at the single neuron level. This page is devoted to reviewing the changes associated with healthy aging.\n\nAging entails many physical, biological, chemical, and psychological changes. Therefore, it is logical to assume the brain is no exception to this phenomenon. CT scans have found that the cerebral ventricles expand as a function of age. More recent MRI studies have reported age-related regional decreases in cerebral volume. Regional volume reduction is not uniform; some brain regions shrink at a rate of up to 1% per year, whereas others remain relatively stable until the end of the life-span. The brain is very complex, and is composed of many different areas and types of tissue, or matter. The different functions of different tissues in the brain may be more or less susceptible to age-induced changes. The brain matter can be broadly classified as either grey matter, or white matter. Grey matter consists of cell bodies in the cortex and subcortical nuclei, whereas white matter consists of tightly packed myelinated axons connecting the neurons of the cerebral cortex to each other and with the periphery.\n\nBrain plasticity refers to the brain's ability to change structure and function. This ties into the common phrase, \"if you don't use it, you lose it,\" which is another way of saying, if you don't use it, your brain will devote less somatotopic space for it. One proposed mechanism for the observed age-related plasticity deficits in animals is the result of age-induced alterations in calcium regulation. The changes in our abilities to handle calcium will ultimately influence neuronal firing and the ability to propagate action potentials, which in turn would affect the ability of the brain to alter its structure or function (i.e. its plastic nature). Due to the complexity of the brain, with all of its structures and functions, it is logical to assume that some areas would be more vulnerable to aging than others. Two circuits worth mentioning here are the hippocampal and neocortical circuits. It has been suggested that age-related cognitive decline is due in part not to neuronal death but to synaptic alterations. Evidence in support of this idea from animal work has also suggested that this cognitive deficit is due to functional and biochemical factors such as changes in enzymatic activity, chemical messengers, or gene expression in cortical circuits.\n\nAdvances in MRI technology have provided the ability to see the brain structure in great detail in an easy, non-invasive manner in vivo. Bartzokis \"et al.\", has noted that there is a decrease in grey matter volume between adulthood and old age, whereas white matter volume was found to increase from age 19-40, and decline after this age. Studies using Voxel-based morphometry have identified areas such as the insula and superior parietal gyri as being especially vulnerable to age-related losses in grey matter of older adults. Sowell \"et al.\", reported that the first 6 decades of an individual's life were correlated with the most rapid decreases in grey matter density, and this occurred over dorsal, frontal, and parietal lobes on both interhemispheric and lateral brain surfaces. It is also worth noting that areas such as the cingulate gyrus, and occipital cortex surrounding the calcarine sulcus appear exempt from this decrease in grey matter density over time. Age effects on grey matter density in the posterior temporal cortex appear more predominantly in the left versus right hemisphere, and were confined to posterior language cortices. Certain language functions such as word retrieval and production were found to be located to more anterior language cortices, and deteriorate as a function of age. Sowell et al., also reported that these anterior language cortices were found to mature and decline earlier than the more posterior language cortices. It has also been found that the width of sulcus not only increases with age, but also with cognitive decline in the elderly.\n\nThere is converging evidence from cognitive neuroscientists around the world that age-induced cognitive deficits may not be due to neuronal loss or cell death, but rather may be the result of small region-specific changes to the morphology of neurons. Studies by Duan et al., have shown that dendritic arbors and dendritic spines of cortical pyramidal neurons decrease in size and/or number in specific regions and layers of human and non-human primate cortex as a result of age (Duan \"et al.\", 2003; morph). A 46% decrease in spine number and spine density has been reported in humans older than 50 compared with younger individuals. An electron microscopy study in monkeys reported a 50% loss in spines on the apical dendritic tufts of pyramidal cells in prefrontal cortex of old animals (27–32 years old) compared with young ones (6–9 years old).\n\nAge-related neuro-pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, hypertension and arteriosclerosis make it difficult to distinguish the normal patterns of aging. One of the important differences between normal aging and pathological aging is the location of neurofibrillary tangles. Neurofibrillary tangles are composed of paired helical filaments (PHF). In normal, non-demented aging, the number of tangles in each affected cell body is relatively low and restricted to the olfactory nucleus, parahippocampal gyrus, amygdala and entorhinal cortex. As the non-demented individual ages, there is a general increase in the density of tangles, but no significant difference in where tangles are found. The other main neurodegenerative contributor commonly found in the brain of patients with AD is amyloid plaques. However, unlike tangles, plaques have not been found to be a consistent feature of normal aging.\n\nCognitive impairment has been attributed to oxidative stress, inflammatory reactions and changes in the cerebral microvasculature. The exact impact of each of these mechanisms in affecting cognitive aging is unknown. Oxidative stress is the most controllable risk factor and is the best understood. The online Merriam-Webster Medical Dictionary defines oxidative stress as, \"physiological stress on the body that is caused by the cumulative damage done by free radicals inadequately neutralized by antioxidants and that is to be associated with aging.\" Hence oxidative stress is the damage done to the cells by free radicals that have been released from the oxidation process.\n\nCompared to other tissues in the body, the brain is deemed unusually sensitive to oxidative damage. Increased oxidative damage has been associated with neurodegenerative diseases, mild cognitive impairment and individual differences in cognition in healthy elderly people. In 'normal aging', the brain is undergoing oxidative stress in a multitude of ways. The main contributors include protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and oxidative modifications in nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. Oxidative stress can damage DNA replication and inhibit repair through many complex processes, including telomere shortening in DNA components. Each time a somatic cell replicates, the telomeric DNA component shortens. As telomere length is partly inheritable, there are individual differences in the age of onset of cognitive decline.\n\nAt least 25 studies have demonstrated that DNA damage accumulates with age in the mammalian brain. This DNA damage includes the oxidized nucleoside 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), single- and double-strand breaks, DNA-protein crosslinks and malondialdehyde adducts (reviewed in Bernstein et al.). Increasing DNA damage with age has been reported in the brains of the mouse, rat, gerbil, rabbit, dog, and human. Young 4-day-old rats have about 3,000 single-strand breaks and 156 double-strand breaks per neuron, whereas in rats older than 2 years the level of damage increases to about 7,400 single-strand breaks and 600 double-strand breaks per neuron.\n\nLu et al. studied the transcriptional profiles of the human frontal cortex of individuals ranging from 26 to 106 years of age. This led to the identification of a set of genes whose expression was altered after age 40. They further found that the promoter sequences of these particular genes accumulated oxidative DNA damage, including 8-OHdG, with age (see DNA damage theory of aging). They concluded that DNA damage may reduce the expression of selectively vulnerable genes involved in learning, memory and neuronal survival, initiating a pattern of brain aging that starts early in life.\n\nIn addition to the structural changes that the brain incurs with age, the aging process also entails a broad range of biochemical changes. More specifically, neurons communicate with each other via specialized chemical messengers called neurotransmitters. Several studies have identified a number of these neurotransmitters, as well as their receptors, that exhibit a marked alteration in different regions of the brain as part of the normal aging process.\n\nAn overwhelming number of studies have reported age-related changes in dopamine synthesis, binding sites, and number of receptors. Studies using positron emission tomography (PET) in living human subjects have shown a significant age-related decline in dopamine synthesis, notably in the striatum and extrastriatal regions (excluding the midbrain). Significant age-related decreases in dopamine receptors D, D, and D have also been highly reported. A general decrease in D and D receptors has been shown, and more specifically a decrease of D and D receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and putamen. A general decrease in D receptor density has also been shown to occur with age. Significant age-related declines in dopamine receptors, D and D were detected in the anterior cingulate cortex, frontal cortex, lateral temporal cortex, hippocampus, medial temporal cortex, amygdala, medial thalamus, and lateral thalamus One study also indicated a significant inverse correlation between dopamine binding in the occipital cortex and age. Postmortem studies also show that the number of D and D receptors decline with age in both the caudate nucleus and the putamen, although the ratio of these receptors did not show age-related changes. The loss of dopamine with age is thought to be responsible for many neurological symptoms that increase in frequency with age, such as decreased arm swing and increased rigidity. Changes in dopamine levels may also cause age-related changes in cognitive flexibility.\n\nDecreasing levels of different serotonin receptors and the serotonin transporter, 5-HTT, have also been shown to occur with age. Studies conducted using PET methods on humans, in vivo, show that levels of the 5-HT receptor in the caudate nucleus, putamen, and frontal cerebral cortex, decline with age. A decreased binding capacity of the 5-HT receptor in the frontal cortex was also found, as well as a decreased binding capacity of the serotonin transporter, 5-HHT, in the thalamus and the midbrain. Postmortem studies on humans have indicated decreased binding capacities of serotonin and a decrease in the number of S receptors in the frontal cortex and hippocampus as well as a decrease in affinity in the putamen.\n\nGlutamate is another neurotransmitter that tends to decrease with age. Studies have shown older subjects to have lower glutamate concentration in the motor cortex compared to younger subjects A significant age-related decline especially in the parietal gray matter, basal ganglia, and to a lesser degree, the frontal white matter, has also been noted. Although these levels were studied in the normal human brain, the parietal and basal ganglia regions are often affected in degenerative brain diseases associated with aging and it has therefore been suggested that brain glutamate may be useful as a marker of brain diseases that are affected by aging.\n\nOrientation is defined as the awareness of self in relation to one's surroundings Often orientation is examined by distinguishing whether a person has a sense of time, place, and person. Deficits in orientation are one of the most common symptoms of brain disease, hence tests of orientation are included in almost all medical and neuropsychological evaluations. While research has primarily focused on levels of orientation among clinical populations, a small number of studies have examined whether there is a normal decline in orientation among healthy aging adults. Results have been somewhat inconclusive. Some studies suggest that orientation does not decline over the lifespan. For example, in one study 92% of normal elderly adults (65–84 years) presented with perfect or near perfect orientation. However some data suggest that mild changes in orientation may be a normal part of aging. For example, Sweet and colleagues concluded that \"older persons with normal, healthy memory may have mild orientation difficulties. In contrast, younger people with normal memory have virtually no orientation problems\" (p. 505). So although current research suggests that normal aging is not usually associated with significant declines in orientation, mild difficulties may be a part of normal aging and not necessarily a sign of pathology.\n\nMany older adults notice a decline in their attentional abilities. Attention is a broad construct that refers to \"the cognitive ability that allows us to deal with the inherent processing limitations of the human brain by selecting information for further processing\" (p. 334). Since the human brain has limited resources, people use their attention to zone in on specific stimuli and block out others.\n\nIf older adults have fewer attentional resources than younger adults, we would expect that when two tasks must be carried out at the same time, older adults' performance will decline more than that of younger adults. However, a large review of studies on cognition and aging suggest that this hypothesis has not been wholly supported. While some studies have found that older adults have a more difficult time encoding and retrieving information when their attention is divided, other studies have not found meaningful differences from younger adults. Similarly, one might expect older adults to do poorly on tasks of sustained attention, which measure the ability to attend to and respond to stimuli for an extended period of time. However, studies suggest that sustained attention shows no decline with age. Results suggest that sustained attention increases in early adulthood and then remains relatively stable, at least through the seventh decade of life. More research is needed on how normal aging impacts attention after age eighty.\n\nIt is worth noting that there are factors other than true attentional abilities that might relate to difficulty paying attention. For example, it is possible that sensory deficits impact older adults' attentional abilities. In other words, impaired hearing or vision may make it more difficult for older adults to do well on tasks of visual and verbal attention.\n\nMany different types of memory have been identified in humans, such as declarative memory (including episodic memory and semantic memory), working memory, spatial memory, and procedural memory. Studies done, have found that memory functions, more specifically those associated with the medial temporal lobe are especially vulnerable to age-related decline. A number of studies utilizing a variety of methods such as histological, structural imaging, functional imaging, and receptor binding have supplied converging evidence that the frontal lobes and frontal-striatal dopaminergic pathways are especially affected by age-related processes resulting in memory changes.\n\nChanges in performance on verbal tasks, as well as the location, extent, and signal intensity of BOLD signal changes measured with functional MRI, vary in predictable patterns with age. For example, behavioral changes associated with age include compromised performance on tasks related to word retrieval, comprehension of sentences with high syntactic and/or working memory demands, and production of such sentences.\n\nVariation in the effects of aging among individuals can be attributed to both genetic and environmental factors. As in so many other science disciplines, the nature and nurture debate is an ongoing conflict in the field of cognitive neuroscience. The search for genetic factors has always been an important aspect in trying to understand neuro-pathological processes. Research focused on discovering the genetic component in developing AD has also contributed greatly to the understanding the genetics behind normal or \"non-pathological\" aging.\n\nThe human brain shows a decline in function and a change in gene expression. This modulation in gene expression may be due to oxidative DNA damage at promoter regions in the genome. Genes that are down-regulated over the age of 40 include:\n\n\nGenes that are upregulated include:\n\n\nThe cerebellum is the youngest brain region (and probably body part) in centenarians according to an epigenetic biomarker of tissue age known as epigenetic clock: it is about 15 years younger than expected in a centenarian. By contrast, all brain regions and brain cells appear to have roughly the same epigenetic age in subjects who are younger than 80. These findings suggest that the cerebellum is protected from aging effects, which in turn could explain why the cerebellum exhibits fewer neuropathological hallmarks of age related dementias compared to other brain regions.\n\nThe process of aging may be inevitable; however, one may potentially delay the effects and severity of this progression.\nWhile there is no consensus of efficacy, the following are reported as delaying cognitive decline:\n\nLongitudinal research studies have recently conducted genetic analyses of centenarians and their offspring to identify biomarkers as protective factors against the negative effects of aging. In particular, the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) gene is linked to prevention of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. Specifically, valine CETP homozygotes but not heterozygotes experienced a relative 51% less decline in memory compared to a reference group after adjusting for demographic factors and APOE status.\n\nThe ability of an individual to demonstrate no cognitive signs of aging despite an aging brain is called cognitive reserve. This hypothesis suggests that two patients might have the same brain pathology, with one person experiencing noticeable clinical symptoms, while the other continues to function relatively normally. Studies of cognitive reserve explore the specific biological, genetic and environmental differences which make one person susceptible to cognitive decline, and allow another to age more gracefully.\n\nA study funded by the National Institute of Aging followed a group of 678 Roman Catholic sisters and recorded the effects of aging. The researchers used autobiographical essays collected as the nuns joined their Sisterhood. Findings suggest that early idea density, defined by number of ideas expressed and use of complex prepositions in these essays, was a significant predictor of lower risk for developing Alzheimer's disease in old age. Lower idea density was found to be significantly associated with lower brain weight, higher brain atrophy, and more neurofibrillary tangles.\n\nIn a recent study (published May 1, 2013), it is suggested that the inflammation of the hypothalamus may be connected to our overall aging bodies. They focused on the activation of the protein complex NF-κB in mice test subjects, which showed increased activation as mice test subjects aged in the study. This activation not only affects aging, but affects a hormone known as GnRH, which has shown new anti-aging properties when injected into mice outside the hypothalamus, while causing the opposite effect when injected into the hypothalamus. It'll be some time before this can be applied to humans in a meaningful way, as more studies on this pathway are necessary to understand the mechanics of GnRH's anti-aging properties.\n\nCompare with the analog in computer science: software aging\n\n"}
{"id": "8504195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8504195", "title": "Analog ear", "text": "Analog ear\n\nAn analog ear or analog cochlea is a model of the ear or of the cochlea (in the inner ear) based on an electrical, electronic or mechanical analog. An analog ear is commonly described as an interconnection of electrical elements such as resistors, capacitors, and inductors; sometimes transformers and active amplifiers are included.\n\nThe ear of the typical mammal consists of three parts. The outer ear collects sounds like a horn and guides them to the eardrum. Vibrations of the drum are conveyed to the inner ear via a system of bones called ossicles. These leverage the larger motions of the eardrum to the smaller vibrations of the oval window. This window connects to the cochlea which is a long dual channel arrangement consisting of two channels separated by the basilar membrane. The structure, about 36 mm in length, is coiled to conserve space. The oval window introduces sounds to the upper channel. The lower channel has a round window but this is not driven by the bones of the middle ear. The far end of the structure has a hole between the two channels called the helicotrema that equalizes slowly varying pressures in the two channels. A series of sensory hair cells along the basilar membrane respond to send neural pulses towards the brain.\n\nModels for the ear of a direct kind have been created, most notably by Nobel Laureate Georg von Békésy. He used glass slides, razor blades, and an elastic membrane to represent the helicotrema. He could measure vibrations along the basilar membrane in response to different excitations frequencies. He found that the pattern of displacements for given frequency sine wave along the basilar membrane rose somewhat gradually to a peak and thereafter fell. High frequencies favored shorter distances from the oval window than did lower ones. Frequency values approximate a logarithmic distribution with distance. \n\nEarly mechanical and electrical analog ears were recounted in the 1954 book \"Analog Methods in Computation and Simulation\":\n\nA direct (mechanical) model uses the variables of air and water pressure, fluid velocity and viscosity, and displacement. An electrical analog model uses a different set of variables, namely, voltage and current. The outer and middle parts of the ear can be represented with a collection of coils, capacitors, and an ideal transformer to represent the leveraging effect of the ossicles. This circuit terminates with a capacitor representing the oval window. From there, the two channels are represented with a sequence of inductors and resistors for fluid flow within each channel with the two channels joined with a sequence of series resonant RLC circuits. Voltages across capacitances represent basilar membrane displacements. Element values along the cochlea are tapered in a logarithmic fashion to represent lowering frequency responses with distance.\n\nThe pattern of voltages along the basilar membrane can be viewed on an oscilloscope. Average values can be obtained with rectification and shown as patterns using a high speed commutator. The analog ear shows patterns that closely follow those observed by Georg von Békésy on his more direct model.\n\nThe first relatively complete model was constructed in the early 1960s at the University of Arizona by two graduate students and their faculty mentor with support from the newly established Air Force Bionics program. This work was first summarized in a report: \"An Electronic Analog of the Ear\", Technical Documentary Report No. AMRL-TDR-1963-60, June 1963, Biophysics Laboratory, 6570-th Aerospace Medical Research Laboratories, Aerospace Medical Division, Air Force Systems Command, by E. Glaesser, W. F. Caldwell, and J. L. Stewart. The report contains an extensive list of references. The work was also reported at Bionics symposia.\n\nUnlike models based on a series of active filters or represented with digital equations, an analog ear can incorporate nonlinearities that represent nonlinear actions of the basilar membrane, perhaps caused by asymmetric motions of sensory cells resulting in asymmetric motions of the basilar membrane. Difference frequencies could be generated as are observed in the human. Some difference frequencies originating in the cochlea can be observed in the outer ear.\n\nNeural signals responding to motions of the basilar membrane show responses in one direction as in rectification. At all but low frequencies, the neural measure averages over multiple cycles to give the equivalent of rectification followed by averaging (low-pass filtering). Over the entire cochlea, response shows as a pattern that varies more slowly that the applied frequency but that does follow the envelope of the applied signal. Each group of cells can give rise to a semi-periodic wave that can be analyzed by neurons in the brain. The total pattern that arises from a sound can thus be thought of as a two-dimensional pattern in time with one axis being the distance along the basilar membrane and the other being distance along some sequence of neurons. These patterns, varying at rates less than lower audio frequencies, have shapes that can be identified much like patterns in vision. The concept of the \"neural analyzer\" as an extension of cochlear patterns is discussed in U. S. patent 3,387,093, \"Speech Bandwidth Compression System\", June 4, 1968 (filed in 1964).\n\nIt was found that the analog ear with its asymmetric overlapping bands was more reliable in identifying speech sounds than is a conventional frequency spectrum. The second formant is the most significant single measure. Speech sounds of interest include whispered and clipped speech.\n\nApplications were made to animals and insects with appropriate ear models. Another study using the analog ear was \"Simulating Mechanisms in Animal Echoranging\", John L. Stewart and James M. Kasson.\n\nMany reports, articles, and patents followed the research as cited in the reports listed here. The last full report employed a relatively early version of a computer program written in time-shared BASIC.\n\nStewart also self-published several books, doing business as Santa Rita Technology, and later as Covox, including \"The Analog Ear Story\" and \"The Analog Ear–brain System\" in 1964, and \"The Bionic Ear\" in 1979.\n\nThe research resulting from analog ear studies fueled the creation of special sounds for use in repelling birds and other pests. Sounds were synthesized to follow natural bird calls but were of a switching kind. The concept is similar to the use of a babble of human voices for jamming another person's communications. The \"Av-Alarm\" was the principal product. It was also adapted to the transonic and ultrasonic regions with a device called \"Transonic\".\n\nThe research also led to development of an early speech word recognizer that operated with 8-bit computers as well as later ones based on 16-bit processors. The product line was developed by Covox, Inc. with product names of \"Speech Thing\" and \"Voice Master\". \n\nA number of U.S. (and foreign) patents on topics related to Stewart's analog ear were granted. In the order of filing dates starting in 1962, numbers are 3,294,909, 3,325,597, 3,387,093, 3,432,618, 3,378,700, 3,483,325, 3,459,034, 3,543,138, and 3,510,588.\n\nSeveral groups have built analog VLSI hearing chips in recent decades.\n"}
{"id": "35285726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35285726", "title": "Animals aboard the RMS Titanic", "text": "Animals aboard the RMS Titanic\n\nThere were many animals aboard the RMS \"Titanic\" during her disastrous maiden voyage, which ended with the ship sinking on 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg.\n\nThey included dogs, cats, chickens, other birds and an unknown number of rats. Twelve dogs were on the Titanic but only three survived, and the rest of the animals perished in the disaster.\n\nThe ship had her own official cat named Jenny, who was kept aboard \"Titanic\" as a mascot and also worked to keep down the ship's population of rats and mice. Transferred over from \"Titanic\"s sister ship \"Olympic\", Jenny gave birth in the week before \"Titanic\" sailed from Southampton. She normally lived in the galley, where the victualling staff fed her and her kittens on scraps from the kitchens. Stewardess Violet Jessop wrote that the cat \"laid her family near Jim, the scullion, whose approval she always sought and who always gave her warm devotion\".\n\nA number of dogs were brought aboard by passengers as pets. Most were kept in kennels on the ship's F Deck, though some First Class passengers kept theirs in their cabins – probably without the knowledge of the crew or with the turning of a blind eye, as they were not supposed to do so. The ship's carpenter, John Hutchison, was responsible for the dogs' welfare. The kennel dogs were exercised daily on the poop deck by a steward or one of the bellboys. As for the lapdogs, the American painter Francis Davis Millet wrote disapprovingly in a letter sent from \"Titanic\"s last stop, Queenstown in Ireland, \"Looking over the [passenger] list I only find three or four people I know but there are ... a number of obnoxious, ostentatious American women, the scourge of any place they infest, and worse on shipboard than anywhere. Many of them carry tiny dogs, and lead husbands around like pet lambs\". The dog owners had planned to hold a dog show aboard the ship on the morning of 15 April, but the \"Titanic\" would sink the preceding night.\n\nThe details of several of the dogs aboard \"Titanic\" were recorded and included:\n\nThere were probably more dogs aboard, but their details (and owners) have not survived. Passenger Charles Moore of Washington, D.C. made a last-minute change to his plans to transport aboard \"Titanic\" 100 English foxhounds, which he intended to use to start an English-style fox hunt in the Washington area. They were instead shipped aboard another vessel.\n\nAs well as the dogs and cats, there were a number of birds aboard. Ella Holmes White of New York brought four roosters and hens, which were probably kept in or near the F Deck dog kennels. She had imported them from France with the intention of improving her poultry stock at home. Another woman was said to have brought 30 cockerels aboard and Elizabeth Ramel Nye brought her yellow canary. Two dogs and a canary disembarked with the passengers who left the ship at Cherbourg, \"Titanic\"s first port of call after Southampton. The animals travelled on their own tickets and even the canary that left at Cherbourg had to be paid for, to the tune of 25 US cents.\n\nLike any other ship of the time, \"Titanic\" had a substantial population of rats. One was seen running across the Third Class Dining Room on the evening of the sinking, to the shock and amazement of the diners. Some of the women who saw it burst into tears, while men tried unsuccessfully to capture the rat.\n\nFew of \"Titanic\"s animals survived the ship's sinking. Three of the dogs were taken aboard lifeboats by their owners. Margaret Hays' Pomeranian got away safely in Lifeboat 7 and lived until June 1917 when it ran away or was stolen, while Elizabeth Rothschild refused to board Lifeboat 6 unless her dog was allowed to come too. Henry and Myra Harper brought their Pekingese aboard Lifeboat 3, but Helen Bishop had to abandon Frou-Frou in her cabin, much to their mutual distress. The dog attempted to stop her leaving by holding on to her dress with his teeth until the seam tore. Afterwards, Bishop spoke of her sorrow: \"The loss of my little dog hurt me very much. I will never forget how he dragged on my clothes. He so wanted to accompany me\".\n\nNone of the other animals survived. At some point during the sinking, someone decided to free the dogs from their kennels, leading to a pack of excited dogs racing up and down the slanting deck as the ship went down. One female passenger is said to have refused to be parted from her dog and chose to stay aboard. Several days later, as the SS \"Bremen\" passed through an area still strewn with debris and bodies floating in the water, a single passenger saw the body of what she thought was a woman tightly holding what could have been a large shaggy dog in her arms. Robert W. Daniel's bulldog Gamin de Pycombe was last seen in the water swimming for his life after the ship went down.\n\nAfter the sinking, several of the surviving animal owners made compensation claims for their lost pets and poultry. Daniel claimed $750 for the loss of his pedigree bulldog, while Carter claimed $300 for the loss of his two dogs. White claimed $207.87 for her lost chickens and Chow-Chow was valued by Anderson at $50. Only three out of twelve dogs survived the sinking.\n\n"}
{"id": "37992641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37992641", "title": "Bermudian death penalty referendum, 1990", "text": "Bermudian death penalty referendum, 1990\n\nA referendum on the death penalty for premeditated murder was held in Bermuda on 12 August 1990. The referendum was held following pressure from the British government, and was held as part of the Capital Punishment Referendum Act, 1989. However, voters approved of retaining the penalty, with 79% voting in favour. \n\nThe death penalty was later abolished by the Parliament of Bermuda following a vote in December 1999.\n"}
{"id": "319610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319610", "title": "Biological life cycle", "text": "Biological life cycle\n\nIn biology, a biological life cycle (or just life cycle when the biological context is clear) is a series of changes in form that an organism undergoes, returning to the starting state. \"The concept is closely related to those of the life history, development and ontogeny, but differs from them in stressing renewal.\" Transitions of form may involve growth, asexual reproduction, or sexual reproduction.\n\nIn some organisms, different \"generations\" of the species succeed each other during the life cycle. For plants and many algae, there are two multicellular stages, and the life cycle is referred to as alternation of generations. The term life history is often used, particularly for organisms such as the red algae which have three multicellular stages (or more), rather than two.\n\nLife cycles that include sexual reproduction involve alternating haploid (\"n\") and diploid (2\"n\") stages, i.e., a change of ploidy is involved. To return from a diploid stage to a haploid stage, meiosis must occur. In regard to changes of ploidy, there are 3 types of cycles:\n\nThe cycles differ in when mitosis (growth) occurs. Zygotic meiosis and gametic meiosis have one mitotic stage: mitosis occurs during the \"n\" phase in zygotic meiosis and during the 2\"n\" phase in gametic meiosis. Therefore, zygotic and gametic meiosis are collectively termed haplobiontic (single mitotic phase, not to be confused with haplontic). Sporic meiosis, on the other hand, has mitosis in two stages, both the diploid and haploid stages, termed diplobiontic (not to be confused with diplontic).\n\nThe study of reproduction and development in organisms was carried out by many botanists and zoologists.\n\nWilhelm Hofmeister demonstrated that alternation of generations is a feature that unites plants, and published this result in 1851 (see plant sexuality).\n\nSome terms (haplobiont and diplobiont) used for the description of life cycles were proposed initially for algae by Nils Svedelius, and then became used for other organisms. Other terms (autogamy and gamontogamy) used in protist life cycles were introduced by Karl Gottlieb Grell. The description of the complex life cycles of various organisms contributed to the disproof of the ideas of spontaneous generation in the 1840s and 1850s.\n\nA zygotic meiosis is a meiosis of a zygote immediately after karyogamy, which is the fusion of two cell nuclei. This way, the organism ends its diploid phase and produces several haploid cells. These cells divide mitotically to form either larger, multicellular individuals, or more haploid cells. Two opposite types of gametes (e.g., male and female) from these individuals or cells fuse to become a zygote.\n\nIn the whole cycle, zygotes are the only diploid cell; mitosis occurs only in the haploid phase.\n\nThe individuals or cells as a result of mitosis are haplonts, hence this life cycle is also called haplontic life cycle. Haplonts are:\n\n\nIn gametic meiosis, instead of immediately dividing \"meiotically\" to produce haploid cells, the zygote divides \"mitotically\" to produce a multicellular diploid individual or a group of more unicellular diploid cells. Cells from the diploid individuals then undergo meiosis to produce haploid cells or gametes. Haploid cells may divide again (by mitosis) to form more haploid cells, as in many yeasts, but the haploid phase is not the predominant life cycle phase. In most diplonts, mitosis occurs only in the diploid phase, i.e. gametes usually form quickly and fuse to produce diploid zygotes.\n\nIn the whole cycle, gametes are usually the only haploid cells, and mitosis usually occurs only in the diploid phase.\n\nThe diploid multicellular individual is a diplont, hence a gametic meiosis is also called a diplontic life cycle. Diplonts are:\n\n\nIn sporic meiosis (also commonly known as intermediary meiosis), the zygote divides mitotically to produce a multicellular diploid sporophyte. The sporophyte creates spores via meiosis which \"also\" then divide mitotically producing haploid individuals called gametophytes. The gametophytes produce gametes via mitosis. In some plants the gametophyte is not only small-sized but also short-lived; in other plants and many algae, the gametophyte is the \"dominant\" stage of the life cycle.\n\nHaplodiplonts are:\n\n\nSome animals have a sex-determination system called haplodiploid, but this is not related to the haplodiplontic life cycle.\n\nSome red algae (such as \"Bonnemaisonia\" and \"Lemanea\") and green algae (such as \"Prasiola\") have vegetative meiosis, also called somatic meiosis, which is a rare phenomenon. Vegetative meiosis can occur in haplodiplontic and also in diplontic life cycles. The gametophytes remain attached to and part of the sporophyte. Vegetative (non-reproductive) diploid cells undergo meiosis, generating vegetative haploid cells. These undergo many mitosis, and produces gametes.\n\nA different phenomenon, called vegetative diploidization, a type of apomixis, occurs in some brown algae (e.g., \"Elachista stellaris\"). Cells in a haploid part of the plant spontaneously duplicate their chromosomes to produce diploid tissue.\n\nThe primitive type of life cycle probably had haploid individuals with asexual reproduction. Bacteria and archaea exhibit a life cycle like this, and some eukaryotes apparently do too (e.g., Cryptophyta, Choanoflagellata, many Euglenozoa, many Amoebozoa, some red algae, some green algae, the imperfect fungi, some rotifers and many other groups, not necessarily haploid). However, these eukaryotes probably are not primitively asexual, but have lost their sexual reproduction, or it just was not observed yet. Many eukaryotes (including animals and plants) exhibit asexual reproduction, which may be facultative or obligate in the life cycle, with sexual reproduction occurring more or less frequently.\n\n"}
{"id": "4502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4502", "title": "Biotechnology", "text": "Biotechnology\n\nBiotechnology is the broad area of biology involving living systems and organisms to develop or make products, or \"any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms, or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use\" (UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Art. 2). Depending on the tools and applications, it often overlaps with the (related) fields of molecular biology, bio-engineering, biomedical engineering, biomanufacturing, molecular engineering, etc.\n\nFor thousands of years, humankind has used biotechnology in agriculture, food production, and medicine. The term is largely believed to have been coined in 1919 by Hungarian engineer Károly Ereky. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, biotechnology has expanded to include new and diverse sciences such as genomics, recombinant gene techniques, applied immunology, and development of pharmaceutical therapies and diagnostic tests.\n\nThe wide concept of \"biotech\" or \"biotechnology\" encompasses a wide range of procedures for modifying living organisms according to human purposes, going back to domestication of animals, cultivation of the plants, and \"improvements\" to these through breeding programs that employ artificial selection and hybridization. Modern usage also includes genetic engineering as well as cell and tissue culture technologies. The American Chemical Society defines biotechnology as the application of biological organisms, systems, or processes by various industries to learning about the science of life and the improvement of the value of materials and organisms such as pharmaceuticals, crops, and livestock. Per the European Federation of Biotechnology, biotechnology is the integration of natural science and organisms, cells, parts thereof, and molecular analogues for products and services. Biotechnology is based on the basic biological sciences (e.g. molecular biology, biochemistry, cell biology, embryology, genetics, microbiology) and conversely provides methods to support and perform basic research in biology.\n\nBiotechnology is the research and development in the laboratory using bioinformatics for exploration, extraction, exploitation and production from any living organisms and any source of biomass by means of biochemical engineering where high value-added products could be planned (reproduced by biosynthesis, for example), forecasted, formulated, developed, manufactured, and marketed for the purpose of sustainable operations (for the return from bottomless initial investment on R & D) and gaining durable patents rights (for exclusives rights for sales, and prior to this to receive national and international approval from the results on animal experiment and human experiment, especially on the pharmaceutical branch of biotechnology to prevent any undetected side-effects or safety concerns by using the products). The utilization of biological processes, organisms or systems to produce products that are anticipated to improve human lives is termed biotechnology.\n\nBy contrast, bioengineering is generally thought of as a related field that more heavily emphasizes higher systems approaches (not necessarily the altering or using of biological materials \"directly\") for interfacing with and utilizing living things. Bioengineering is the application of the principles of engineering and natural sciences to tissues, cells and molecules. This can be considered as the use of knowledge from working with and manipulating biology to achieve a result that can improve functions in plants and animals. Relatedly, biomedical engineering is an overlapping field that often draws upon and applies \"biotechnology\" (by various definitions), especially in certain sub-fields of biomedical or chemical engineering such as tissue engineering, biopharmaceutical engineering, and genetic engineering.\n\nAlthough not normally what first comes to mind, many forms of human-derived agriculture clearly fit the broad definition of \"'utilizing a biotechnological system to make products\". Indeed, the cultivation of plants may be viewed as the earliest biotechnological enterprise.\n\nAgriculture has been theorized to have become the dominant way of producing food since the Neolithic Revolution. Through early biotechnology, the earliest farmers selected and bred the best suited crops, having the highest yields, to produce enough food to support a growing population. As crops and fields became increasingly large and difficult to maintain, it was discovered that specific organisms and their by-products could effectively fertilize, restore nitrogen, and control pests. Throughout the history of agriculture, farmers have inadvertently altered the genetics of their crops through introducing them to new environments and breeding them with other plants — one of the first forms of biotechnology.\n\nThese processes also were included in early fermentation of beer. These processes were introduced in early Mesopotamia, Egypt, China and India, and still use the same basic biological methods. In brewing, malted grains (containing enzymes) convert starch from grains into sugar and then adding specific yeasts to produce beer. In this process, carbohydrates in the grains broke down into alcohols, such as ethanol. Later, other cultures produced the process of lactic acid fermentation, which produced other preserved foods, such as soy sauce. Fermentation was also used in this time period to produce leavened bread. Although the process of fermentation was not fully understood until Louis Pasteur's work in 1857, it is still the first use of biotechnology to convert a food source into another form.\n\nBefore the time of Charles Darwin's work and life, animal and plant scientists had already used selective breeding. Darwin added to that body of work with his scientific observations about the ability of science to change species. These accounts contributed to Darwin's theory of natural selection.\n\nFor thousands of years, humans have used selective breeding to improve production of crops and livestock to use them for food. In selective breeding, organisms with desirable characteristics are mated to produce offspring with the same characteristics. For example, this technique was used with corn to produce the largest and sweetest crops.\n\nIn the early twentieth century scientists gained a greater understanding of microbiology and explored ways of manufacturing specific products. In 1917, Chaim Weizmann first used a pure microbiological culture in an industrial process, that of manufacturing corn starch using \"Clostridium acetobutylicum,\" to produce acetone, which the United Kingdom desperately needed to manufacture explosives during World War I.\n\nBiotechnology has also led to the development of antibiotics. In 1928, Alexander Fleming discovered the mold \"Penicillium\". His work led to the purification of the antibiotic compound formed by the mold by Howard Florey, Ernst Boris Chain and Norman Heatley – to form what we today know as penicillin. In 1940, penicillin became available for medicinal use to treat bacterial infections in humans.\n\nThe field of modern biotechnology is generally thought of as having been born in 1971 when Paul Berg's (Stanford) experiments in gene splicing had early success. Herbert W. Boyer (Univ. Calif. at San Francisco) and Stanley N. Cohen (Stanford) significantly advanced the new technology in 1972 by transferring genetic material into a bacterium, such that the imported material would be reproduced. The commercial viability of a biotechnology industry was significantly expanded on June 16, 1980, when the United States Supreme Court ruled that a genetically modified microorganism could be patented in the case of \"Diamond v. Chakrabarty\". Indian-born Ananda Chakrabarty, working for General Electric, had modified a bacterium (of the genus \"Pseudomonas\") capable of breaking down crude oil, which he proposed to use in treating oil spills. (Chakrabarty's work did not involve gene manipulation but rather the transfer of entire organelles between strains of the \"Pseudomonas\" bacterium.\n\nRevenue in the industry is expected to grow by 12.9% in 2008. Another factor influencing the biotechnology sector's success is improved intellectual property rights legislation—and enforcement—worldwide, as well as strengthened demand for medical and pharmaceutical products to cope with an ageing, and ailing, U.S. population.\n\nRising demand for biofuels is expected to be good news for the biotechnology sector, with the Department of Energy estimating ethanol usage could reduce U.S. petroleum-derived fuel consumption by up to 30% by 2030. The biotechnology sector has allowed the U.S. farming industry to rapidly increase its supply of corn and soybeans—the main inputs into biofuels—by developing genetically modified seeds that resist pests and drought. By increasing farm productivity, biotechnology boosts biofuel production.\n\nBiotechnology has applications in four major industrial areas, including health care (medical), crop production and agriculture, non-food (industrial) uses of crops and other products (e.g. biodegradable plastics, vegetable oil, biofuels), and environmental uses.\n\nFor example, one application of biotechnology is the directed use of organisms for the manufacture of organic products (examples include beer and milk products). Another example is using naturally present bacteria by the mining industry in bioleaching. Biotechnology is also used to recycle, treat waste, clean up sites contaminated by industrial activities (bioremediation), and also to produce biological weapons.\n\nA series of derived terms have been coined to identify several branches of biotechnology, for example:\n\nIn medicine, modern biotechnology has many applications in areas such as pharmaceutical drug discoveries and production, pharmacogenomics, and genetic testing (or genetic screening).\nPharmacogenomics (a combination of pharmacology and genomics) is the technology that analyses how genetic makeup affects an individual's response to drugs. It deals with the influence of genetic variation on drug responses in patients by correlating gene expression or single-nucleotide polymorphisms with a drug's efficacy or toxicity. By doing so, pharmacogenomics aims to develop rational means to optimize drug therapy, with respect to the patients' genotype, to ensure maximum efficacy with minimal adverse effects. Such approaches promise the advent of \"personalized medicine\"; in which drugs and drug combinations are optimized for each individual's unique genetic makeup.\n\nBiotechnology has contributed to the discovery and manufacturing of traditional small molecule pharmaceutical drugs as well as drugs that are the product of biotechnology – biopharmaceutics. Modern biotechnology can be used to manufacture existing medicines relatively easily and cheaply. The first genetically engineered products were medicines designed to treat human diseases. To cite one example, in 1978 Genentech developed synthetic humanized insulin by joining its gene with a plasmid vector inserted into the bacterium \"Escherichia coli\". Insulin, widely used for the treatment of diabetes, was previously extracted from the pancreas of abattoir animals (cattle or pigs). The resulting genetically engineered bacterium enabled the production of vast quantities of synthetic human insulin at relatively low cost. Biotechnology has also enabled emerging therapeutics like gene therapy. The application of biotechnology to basic science (for example through the Human Genome Project) has also dramatically improved our understanding of biology and as our scientific knowledge of normal and disease biology has increased, our ability to develop new medicines to treat previously untreatable diseases has increased as well.\n\nGenetic testing allows the genetic diagnosis of vulnerabilities to inherited diseases, and can also be used to determine a child's parentage (genetic mother and father) or in general a person's ancestry. In addition to studying chromosomes to the level of individual genes, genetic testing in a broader sense includes biochemical tests for the possible presence of genetic diseases, or mutant forms of genes associated with increased risk of developing genetic disorders. Genetic testing identifies changes in chromosomes, genes, or proteins. Most of the time, testing is used to find changes that are associated with inherited disorders. The results of a genetic test can confirm or rule out a suspected genetic condition or help determine a person's chance of developing or passing on a genetic disorder. As of 2011 several hundred genetic tests were in use. Since genetic testing may open up ethical or psychological problems, genetic testing is often accompanied by genetic counseling.\n\nGenetically modified crops (\"GM crops\", or \"biotech crops\") are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified with genetic engineering techniques. In most cases, the main aim is to introduce a new trait that does not occur naturally in the species.\n\nExamples in food crops include resistance to certain pests, diseases, stressful environmental conditions, resistance to chemical treatments (e.g. resistance to a herbicide), reduction of spoilage, or improving the nutrient profile of the crop. Examples in non-food crops include production of pharmaceutical agents, biofuels, and other industrially useful goods, as well as for bioremediation.\n\nFarmers have widely adopted GM technology. Between 1996 and 2011, the total surface area of land cultivated with GM crops had increased by a factor of 94, from to 1,600,000 km (395 million acres). 10% of the world's crop lands were planted with GM crops in 2010. As of 2011, 11 different transgenic crops were grown commercially on 395 million acres (160 million hectares) in 29 countries such as the USA, Brazil, Argentina, India, Canada, China, Paraguay, Pakistan, South Africa, Uruguay, Bolivia, Australia, Philippines, Myanmar, Burkina Faso, Mexico and Spain.\n\nGenetically modified foods are foods produced from organisms that have had specific changes introduced into their DNA with the methods of genetic engineering. These techniques have allowed for the introduction of new crop traits as well as a far greater control over a food's genetic structure than previously afforded by methods such as selective breeding and mutation breeding. Commercial sale of genetically modified foods began in 1994, when Calgene first marketed its Flavr Savr delayed ripening tomato. To date most genetic modification of foods have primarily focused on cash crops in high demand by farmers such as soybean, corn, canola, and cotton seed oil. These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and better nutrient profiles. GM livestock have also been experimentally developed; in November 2013 none were available on the market, but in 2015 the FDA approved the first GM salmon for commercial production and consumption.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food must be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nGM crops also provide a number of ecological benefits, if not used in excess. However, opponents have objected to GM crops per se on several grounds, including environmental concerns, whether food produced from GM crops is safe, whether GM crops are needed to address the world's food needs, and economic concerns raised by the fact these organisms are subject to intellectual property law.\nIndustrial biotechnology (known mainly in Europe as white biotechnology) is the application of biotechnology for industrial purposes, including industrial fermentation. It includes the practice of using cells such as micro-organisms, or components of cells like enzymes, to generate industrially useful products in sectors such as chemicals, food and feed, detergents, paper and pulp, textiles and biofuels. In the current decades, significant progress has been done in creating genetically modified organisms (GMOs) that enhance the diversity of applications and economical viability of industrial biotechnology. By using renewable raw materials to produce a variety of chemicals and fuels, industrial biotechnology is actively advancing towards lowering greenhouse gas emissions and moving away from a petrochemical-based economy.\n\nThe environment can be affected by biotechnologies, both positively and adversely. Vallero and others have argued that the difference between beneficial biotechnology (e.g.bioremediation is to clean up an oil spill or hazard chemical leak) versus the adverse effects stemming from biotechnological enterprises (e.g. flow of genetic material from transgenic organisms into wild strains) can be seen as applications and implications, respectively. Cleaning up environmental wastes is an example of an application of environmental biotechnology; whereas loss of biodiversity or loss of containment of a harmful microbe are examples of environmental implications of biotechnology.\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering concerns approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the use of genetic engineering technology, and the development and release of genetically modified organisms (GMO), including genetically modified crops and genetically modified fish. There are differences in the regulation of GMOs between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the USA and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended use of the products of the genetic engineering. For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety. The European Union differentiates between approval for cultivation within the EU and approval for import and processing. While only a few GMOs have been approved for cultivation in the EU a number of GMOs have been approved for import and processing. The cultivation of GMOs has triggered a debate about coexistence of GM and non GM crops. Depending on the coexistence regulations, incentives for cultivation of GM crops differ.\n\nIn 1988, after prompting from the United States Congress, the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (National Institutes of Health) (NIGMS) instituted a funding mechanism for biotechnology training. Universities nationwide compete for these funds to establish Biotechnology Training Programs (BTPs). Each successful application is generally funded for five years then must be competitively renewed. Graduate students in turn compete for acceptance into a BTP; if accepted, then stipend, tuition and health insurance support is provided for two or three years during the course of their Ph.D. thesis work. Nineteen institutions offer NIGMS supported BTPs. Biotechnology training is also offered at the undergraduate level and in community colleges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4762815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4762815", "title": "Black Herman", "text": "Black Herman\n\nBenjamin Rucker (June 6, 1889 – April 15, 1934) was an American stage magician, better known by his stage name Black Herman. He was the most prominent African-American magician of his time.\n\nHe was born as Benjamin Rucker in Amherst, Virginia on June 6, 1889.\n\nBlack Herman learned the art of staged illusions from a performer called Prince Herman, who was first his teacher and later his partner. The two sold patent medicine as well as performing prestidigitation, making their act as much a medicine show as a stage show. When Prince Herman died, in 1909, Rucker, then only 17 years old, took the name Black Herman in his friend's honour and continued to tour, focusing on the stage act and dropping the medicine show aspects of his performance.\n\nEventually, Herman made Harlem, New York City his home base. Jim Crow policies were in effect at that time, so in the Northern states he could perform before racially mixed audiences, but when he traveled through the South, often with his own tent show, segregation laws kept his audiences primarily Black. His specialties included the Asrah levitation, the production of rabbits, release from knots tied by audience members, and a \"buried alive\" act which began with his interment in an outdoor area called \"Black Herman's Private Graveyard\" and continued three days later with his exhumation, revival and a walk to the stage venue, where he performed the rest of his show.\n\nHerman was the ostensible author of \"Secrets of Magic, Mystery, and Legerdemain,\" a book published in 1925 that contains his semi-fictionalized autobiography, directions for simple illusions suitable to the novice stage magician, advice on astrology and lucky numbers, and a sampling of African-American hoodoo folk magic customs and practices. An announcement on the book's title page, \"Black Herman Comes Through Every Seven Years\", referred to Herman's pattern of returning to venues on a regular basis; the book was sold at his performances, although it has been determined that he was not the author.\n\nBlack Herman died in Louisville, Kentucky, in April 15, 1934, after collapsing on stage, presumably the result of a heart attack. Due to the fame of his \"buried alive\" act, many people in the audience refused to believe he was really dead, and thus it came about that his assistant, Washington Reeves, charged admission to view Rucker's corpse in the funeral home, bringing a dramatic close to a life spent in showmanship. He was buried in the Woodlawn Cemetery in Bronx, New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6806235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6806235", "title": "Capital punishment in Russia", "text": "Capital punishment in Russia\n\nCurrently, Capital punishment in Russia is not allowed. There exists both an implicit moratorium established by President Boris Yeltsin in 1996, and an explicit one, established by the Constitutional Court of Russia in 1999 and most recently reaffirmed in 2009. Russia has not executed anyone since 1996.\n\nIn medieval Russia capital punishment was extremely rare, and was even banned in many, if not most, principalities. The Law of Yaroslavl (c. 1017) put restrictions on what crimes warranted execution. Later, the law was amended in much of the country to completely ban capital punishment.\n\nThe Russian Empire practiced the death penalty extensively, as did almost all modern states before the 20th century. One of the first legal documents resembling a modern penal code was enacted in 1398, which mentioned a single capital crime: a theft performed after two prior convictions (an early precursor to the current Three-strikes laws existing in several U.S. states). The Pskov Code of 1497 extends this list significantly, mentioning three specialized theft instances (those committed in a church, stealing a horse, or, as before, with two prior \"strikes\"), as well as arson and treason. The trend to increase the number of capital crimes continued: in 1649, this list included 63 crimes, a figure that nearly doubled during the reign of Tsar Peter I (Peter the Great). The methods of execution were extremely cruel by modern standards (but fully consistent with the standards of the time), and included drowning, burying alive, and forcing liquid metal into the throat.\n\nElizabeth (reigned 1741-1762) did not share her father Peter's views on the death penalty, and officially suspended it in 1745, effectively enacting a moratorium. This lasted for 11 years, at which point the death penalty was permitted again, after considerable opposition to the moratorium from both the nobility and, in part, from the Empress herself.\n\nPerhaps the first public statement on the matter to be both serious and strong came from Catherine II (Catherine the Great), whose liberal views were consistent with her acceptance of the Enlightenment. In her \"Nakaz\" of 1767, the empress expressed a disdain for the death penalty, considering it to be improper, adding: \"In the usual state of the society, death penalty is neither useful nor needed.\" However, an explicit exception was still allowed for the case of someone who, even while convicted and incarcerated, \"still has the means and the might to ignite public unrest\". This specific exception applied to mutineers of Pugachev's Rebellion in 1775.\nConsistent with Catherine's stance, the next several decades marked a shift of public perception against the death penalty. In 1824, the very existence of such a punishment was among the reasons for the legislature's refusal to approve a new version of the Penal Code. Just one year later, the Decembrist revolt failed, and a court sentenced 36 of the rebels to death. Nicholas I's decision to commute all but five of the sentences was highly unusual for the time, especially taking into account that revolts against the monarchy had almost universally resulted in an automatic death sentence, and was perhaps due to society's changing views of the death penalty. By the late 1890s, capital punishment for murder was virtually never carried out, but substituted with 10 to 15 years imprisonment with hard labor, although it still was carried out for treason (for example, Alexander Ulyanov was hanged in 1887). However, in 1910, capital punishment was reintroduced and expanded, although still very seldom used.\n\nThe death penalty was officially outlawed on March 12, 1917 following the February Revolution and the establishment of the Russian Republic. On May 12, 1917, the death penalty became allowed for soldiers on the front.\n\nThe Soviet government confirmed the abolition almost immediately after assuming power, but restored it for some crimes very soon. Most notably, Fanny Kaplan was executed on 4 September 1918 for her attempt to assassinate Lenin six days prior. Over the next several decades, the death penalty was alternately permitted and prohibited, sometimes in very quick succession. The list of capital crimes likewise underwent several changes.\n\nUnder the rule of Joseph Stalin, many were executed during the Great Purge in the 1930s. Many of the death sentences were pronounced by a specially appointed triple-person commission of officials, the NKVD troika. The exact number of executions is debated, with archival research suggesting it to be between 700,000 and 800,000 (\"see also \"). The verdict of capital punishment in the Soviet Union was called the \"Supreme Degree of Punishment\" (Vysshaya Mera Nakazaniya, VMN). Verdicts under Article 58 (counter-revolutionary activity) often ended with a sentence that was abbreviated as VMN, and usually followed by executions through shooting, though other frequent verdicts were 10 years and 25 years (dubbed \"Сталинский четвертак\" \"Stalinskiy chetvertak\", \"Stalin's Quarter\") sentences.\n\nThe death penalty was again abolished on 26 May 1947, the strictest sentence becoming 25 years' imprisonment, before it was restored on 12 May 1950: first for treason and espionage, and then for aggravated murder. The Penal Code of 1960 significantly extended the list of capital crimes. According to 1985-1989 statistics, the death penalty accounted for less than 1 in 2000 sentences. According to the GARF archives database, between 1978 and 1985 there were 3,058 sentences to death that had been appealed to the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR. At least one woman was executed during this time, Antonina Makarova, on August 11, 1978. After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russian Federation carried out the death penalty intermittently, with up to 10 or so officially a year. In 1996, pending Russia's entry into the Council of Europe, a moratorium was placed on the death penalty, which is still in place as of 2018.\n\nArticle 20 of the Russian Constitution states that everyone has the right to life, and that \"until its abolition, death penalty may only be passed for the most serious crimes against human life.\" Additionally, all such sentences require jury trial. The inclusion of the abolition wording has been interpreted by some as a requirement that the death penalty be abolished at some point in the future.\n\nThe current Penal Code permits the death penalty for five crimes:\nNo crime has a mandatory death sentence; each of the five sections mentioned above also permit a sentence of life imprisonment as well as a prison term of not less than eight or 12 (depending on the crime) nor more than twenty, years. Moreover, men under the age of 18 or above the age of 65 as of the time the crime was committed, and all women, are not eligible for a death sentence.\n\nThe Penal Execution Code specifies that the execution is to be carried out \"non-publicly by means of shooting\".\n\nOne of the absolute requirements of the Council of Europe for all members is that the death penalty cannot be carried out for any crime. While the preferred method is abolition, the Council has demonstrated that it would accept a moratorium, at least temporarily. Consistent with this rule, on 25 January 1996, the Council required Russia to implement a moratorium immediately and fully abolish death penalty within three years, in order for its bid for inclusion in the organization be to be approved. In a little over a month, Russia agreed and became a member of the Council. Whether the moratorium has actually happened as a matter of legal right is the subject of some controversy.\n\nOn 16 May 1996, then-President Boris Yeltsin issued a decree \"for the stepwise reduction in application of the death penalty in conjunction with Russia's entry into the Council of Europe\", which is widely cited as \"de facto\" establishing such a moratorium. The decree called on the legislature to prepare a law which would abolish the death penalty, as well as a recommendation to decrease the number of capital crimes and require the authorities to treat those on the death row in a humane manner. Although the order may be read as not specifically outlawing the death penalty, this was eventually the practical effect, and it was accepted as such by the Council of Europe as Russia was granted membership in the organization. However, since the executions continued in the first half of 1996 - that is, after Russia signed the agreement - the Council was not satisfied and presented Russia with several ultimatums, threatening to expel the country if the death penalty continues to be carried out. In response, several more laws and orders have been enacted, and Russia has not executed anyone since August 1996. The last person to be executed in Russia was a serial killer named Sergey Golovkin, who was convicted in 1994 and shot on 2 August 1996.\n\nOn 2 February 1999, the Constitutional Court of Russia issued a temporary stay on any executions for a rather technical reason, but nevertheless granting the moratorium an unquestionable legal status for the first time. According to the Constitution as quoted above, a death sentence may be pronounced only by a jury trial, which were not yet implemented in some regions of the country. The court found that such disparity makes death sentences illegal in \"any\" part of the country, even those that do have the process of trial by jury implemented. According to the ruling, no death sentence may be passed until all regions of country have jury trials, which may happen as early as 2007, at which point the legal status of the death penalty may again become questionable.\n\nOn 15 November 2006, the Duma extended both the implementation of jury trials in the sole remaining region (Chechnya) and the moratorium on the death penalty by three years, until early 2010.\n\nShortly before the end of this moratorium, on 19 November 2009, the Constitutional Court of Russia extended the national moratorium \"until the ratification of 6th Protocol to the European Convention of Human Rights\". The court also ruled that the introduction of jury trials in Chechnya is not a valid precept for lifting the moratorium.\n\nIn April 2013, President Vladimir Putin said that lifting the moratorium was inadvisable.\n\nAccording to a 2006 survey by Fond Obschestvennoe Mneniye (Public Opinion Foundation), which was conducted on the 10th anniversary of the moratorium, the death penalty was supported by three quarters of the respondents, and only four percent of them favored the abolition of the death penalty. The moratorium itself was opposed by 55 percent of the respondents and supported by 28 percent of the respondents. Those supporting the moratorium had, on average, a higher level of education, lived in large cities and were younger.\n\nA survey conducted by the same company in 2012 (on a sample of 3,000) found that 62 percent of the respondents favored a return to the use of the death penalty, and 21 percent still supported the moratorim. In this survey, five percent of the respondents supported the abolition of the death penalty, and 66 percent supported the death penalty as a valid punishment.\n\nAccording to a 2013 survey by the Levada Center, 54 percent of the respondents favored an equal (38 percent) or greater (16 percent) use of the death penalty as before the 1996 moratorium, a decline from 68 percent in 2002 and from 61 percent in 2012. This survey found that the death penalty now has a higher approval rating in urban areas (77 percent in Moscow for example), with men and among the elderly. According to the Levada Center figures, the proportion of Russians seeking abolition of the death penalty was 12 percent in 2002, 10 percent in 2012 and 11 percent in 2013. According to the same source, the proportion of Russians approving of the moratorium increased from 12 percent in 2002 to 23 percent in 2013.\n\nA February 2017 survey showed an increase of support for the death penalty. 44 percent of Russians wanted the death penalty returned and 41 percent said they opposed this measure. 15 percent of respondents said they did not have any opinion on the issue. In 2015, the share of those who supported it was 41 percent with 44 percent against.\n\nAfter two terrorists were executed in Belarus in 2012 for their role in the 2011 Minsk Metro bombing, the Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that he urged all European countries to join the moratorium, including Belarus. However, he said that it is an internal affair of each state, and that despite condemning the execution that Russia still was a major supporter of the war on terror.\n\nHistorically, various types of capital punishment were used in Russia, such as hanging, breaking wheel, burning, beheading, etc. During the times of Ivan the Terrible, capital punishment often took exotic and torturous forms, impalement being one of its most common types. Certain crimes incurred specific forms of capital punishment, e.g. coin counterfeiters were executed by pouring molten lead into their throats, while certain religious crimes were punishable by burning alive.\n\nIn the times after Peter the Great, hanging for military men and shooting for civilians became the default means of execution, though certain types of non-lethal corporal punishment, such as lashing or caning, could result in the convict's death.\n\nIn the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, convicts awaited execution for a period around 9-18 months since the first sentence. That was the time typically needed for 2-3 appeals to be processed through the Soviet juridical system, depending on the level of the court that first sentenced the convict to death. Shooting was the only legal means of execution, though the exact procedure has never been codified. Unlike most other countries, execution did not involve any official ceremony: the convict was often given no warning and taken by surprise in order to eliminate fear, suffering and resistance. Where warning was given, it was usually just a few minutes.\n\nThe process was usually carried out by single executioner, usage of firing squads being limited to wartime executions. The most common method was to make the convict walk into a dead-end room, and shoot him from behind in the back of the head with a handgun. In some cases, the convict could be forced down on his knees. Some prisons were rumored to have specially designed rooms with fire slits, while in others the convict was tied to the floor, his head against a blood draining hole. Another method was to make the convict walk out of the prison building, where he was awaited by the executioner and a truck with the engine and headlamps turned on. The lights blinded and disoriented the convict, while the noise of the engine muffled the shot. Sometimes the execution was carried out outdoors in front of the grave in which the convict was to be buried.\n\nThe body of the executed criminal was not given to the relatives, but rather buried in anonymous graves in undisclosed locations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532719", "title": "Computational cybernetics", "text": "Computational cybernetics\n\nComputational cybernetics is the integration of cybernetics and computational intelligence techniques. Though the term Cybernetics entered the technical lexicon in the 1940s and 1950s, it was first used informally as a popular noun in the 1960s, when it became associated with computers, robotics, Artificial Intelligence and Science fiction.\n\nWhile Cybernetics is primarily concerned with the study of control systems, computational cybernetics focuses on their automatic (complex, autonomic, flexible, adaptive) operation. Furthermore, computational cybernetics covers not only mechanical, but biological (living), social and economical systems. To achieve this goal, it uses research from the fields of communication theory, signal processing, information technology, control theory, the theory of adaptive systems, the theory of complex systems (game theory, and operational research). \n\nIEEE, a professional organization for the advancement of technology, has organized two international conferences focusing on computational cybernetics in 2008 and 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "5314189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5314189", "title": "Cryptospore", "text": "Cryptospore\n\nCryptospores are fossilised primitive plant spores that first appear in the fossil record during the middle of the Ordovician period.\n\nCryptospores are generally found in non-marine rocks and decrease in abundance with distance offshore. This suggests that any cryptospores found in the marine environment were transported there by the wind from the land, rather than originating from the marine environment.\n\nThe walls of cryptospores consist of many lamellae (thin sheets). Liverworts, thought to be the most primitive land plants, also have this spore wall morphology.\n\n(Some) cryptospores are composed of sporopollenin and have the same chemical makeup as co-occurring trilete spores.\n\nRecently, fossils of plant sporangia have been found in Oman with cryptospores showing concentric lamellae in their walls, similar to liverworts. The earliest known cryptospores are from Middle Ordovician (Dapingian) strata of Argentina. Spores from the Lindegård Mudstone (late Katian–early Hirnantian) represent the earliest record of early land plant spores from Sweden and possibly also from Baltica and implies that land plants had migrated to the palaeocontinent Baltica by at least the Late Ordovician. This discovery reinforces the earlier suggestion that the migration of land plants from northern Gondwana to Baltica in the Late Ordovician was facilitated by the northward migration of Avalonia, which is evidenced by the co-occurrence of reworked, Early–Middle Ordovician acritarchs, possibly suggesting an Avalonian provenance in a foreland basin system.\n\nPaleobotany \nPalynology\nSpore\nLand plants\nStrother, P.\nWellman, C.\nSteemans, P.\nRubinstein, C.V.\n"}
{"id": "220457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220457", "title": "Cycad", "text": "Cycad\n\nCycads are seed plants with a long fossil history that were formerly more abundant and more diverse than they are today. They typically have a stout and woody (ligneous) trunk with a crown of large, hard and stiff, evergreen leaves. They usually have pinnate leaves. The individual plants are either all male or all female (dioecious). Cycads vary in size from having trunks only a few centimeters to several meters tall. They typically grow very slowly and live very long, with some specimens known to be as much as 1,000 years old. Because of their superficial resemblance, they are sometimes mistaken for palms or ferns, but they are not closely related to either group.\n\nCycads are gymnosperms (naked seeded), meaning their unfertilized seeds are open to the air to be directly fertilized by pollination, as contrasted with angiosperms, which have enclosed seeds with more complex fertilization arrangements. Cycads have very specialized pollinators, usually a specific species of beetle. They have been reported to fix nitrogen in association with various cyanobacteria living in the roots (the \"coralloid\" roots). These photosynthetic bacteria produce a neurotoxin called BMAA that is found in the seeds of cycads. This neurotoxin may enter a human food chain as the cycad seeds may be eaten directly as a source of flour by humans or by wild or feral animals such as bats, and humans may eat these animals. It is hypothesized that this is a source of some neurological diseases in humans.\n\nCycads have a cylindrical trunk which usually does not branch.\nLeaves grow directly from the trunk, and typically fall when older, leaving a crown of leaves at the top. The leaves grow in a rosette form, with new foliage emerging from the top and center of the crown. The trunk may be buried, so the leaves appear to be emerging from the ground, so the plant appears to be a basal rosette. The leaves are generally large in proportion to the trunk size, and sometimes even larger than the trunk.\n\nThe leaves are pinnate (in the form of bird feathers, pinnae), with a central leaf stalk from which parallel \"ribs\" emerge from each side of the stalk, perpendicular to it. The leaves are typically either compound (the leaf stalk has leaflets emerging from it as \"ribs\"), or have edges (margins) so deeply cut (incised) so as to appear compound. Some species have leaves that are bipinnate, which means the leaflets each have their own subleaflets, growing in the same form on the leaflet as the leaflets grow on the stalk of the leaf (self-similar geometry).\n\nDue to superficial similarities in foliage and plant structure between cycads and palms they are often confused with each other. In reality, they belong to completely different phyla, and are not closely related at all. The similar structure may be evidence of convergent evolution.\n\nDespite this, there are still a number of differences between them. For one, both male and female cycads bear a cone-like reproductive structure called a strobilus, while palms are angiosperms and so flower and bear fruit. The mature foliage looks very similar between both groups, but the young emerging leaves of a cycad resemble a fiddlehead fern before they unfold and take their place in the rosette, while the leaves of palms are never coiled up and instead are just small versions of the mature frond. Another difference is in the stem. Both plants leave scars on the stem below the rosette where there used to be leaves, but the scars of a cycad are helically arranged and small, while the scars of palms are a circle that wraps around the whole stem. The stems of cycads are also in general rougher and shorter than those of palms.\n\nThe three extant families of cycads all belong to the order Cycadales, and are Cycadaceae, Stangeriaceae, and Zamiaceae. These cycads have changed little since the Jurassic, compared to some major evolutionary changes in other plant divisions. Five additional families belonging to the Medullosales became extinct by the end of the Paleozoic Era.\n\nCycads are most closely related to the extinct Bennettitales, and are also relatively close relatives to the Ginkgoales, as shown in the following phylogeny:\nClassification of the Cycadophyta to the rank of family.\n\n\nThe probable former range of cycads can be inferred from their global distribution. For example, the family Stangeriaceae only contains three extant species in Africa and Australia. Diverse fossils of this family have been dated to 135 mya, indicating that diversity may have been much greater before the Jurassic and late Triassic mass extinction events. However, the cycad fossil record is generally poor and little can be deduced about the effects of each mass extinction event on their diversity.\n\nInstead, correlations can be made between the number of extant gymnosperms and angiosperms. It is likely that cycad diversity was affected more by the great angiosperm radiation in the mid-Cretaceous than by extinctions. Very slow cambial growth was first used to define cycads, and because of this characteristic the group could not compete with the rapidly growing, relatively short-lived angiosperms, which now number over 250,000 species, compared to the 1080 remaining gymnosperms. It is surprising that the cycads are still extant, having been faced with extreme competition and five major extinctions. The ability of cycads to survive in relatively dry environments, where plant diversity is generally lower, may explain their long persistence and longevity.\n\nThe cycad fossil record dates to the early Permian, 280 million years ago (mya). There is controversy over older cycad fossils that date to the late Carboniferous period, 300–325  mya. This clade probably diversified extensively within its first few million years, although the extent to which it radiated is unknown because relatively few fossil specimens have been found. The regions to which cycads are restricted probably indicate their former distribution in the Pangea before the supercontinents Laurasia and Gondwana separated. Recent studies have indicated the common perception of existing cycad species as living fossils is largely misplaced, with only \"Bowenia\" dating to the Cretaceous or earlier. Although the cycad lineage itself is ancient, most extant species have evolved in the last 12 million years.\nThe family Stangeriaceae (named for Dr. William Stanger, 1811–1854), consisting of only three extant species, is thought to be of Gondwanan origin, as fossils have been found in Lower Cretaceous deposits in Argentina, dating to 70–135 mya. The family Zamiaceae is more diverse, with a fossil record extending from the middle Triassic to the Eocene (54–200 mya) in North and South America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica, implying the family was present before the break-up of Pangea. The family Cycadaceae is thought to be an early offshoot from other cycads, with fossils from Eocene deposits (38–54 mya) in Japan, China, and North America, indicating this family originated in Laurasia. \"Cycas\" is the only genus in the family and contains 99 species, the most of any cycad genus. Molecular data have recently shown \"Cycas\" species in Australasia and the east coast of Africa are recent arrivals, suggesting adaptive radiation may have occurred. The current distribution of cycads may be due to radiations from a few ancestral types sequestered on Laurasia and Gondwana, or could be explained by genetic drift following the separation of already evolved genera. Both explanations account for the strict endemism across present continental lines.\n\nThe living cycads are found across much of the subtropical and tropical parts of the world. The greatest diversity occurs in South and Central America. They are also found in Mexico, the Antilles, southeastern United States, Australia, Melanesia, Micronesia, Japan, China, Southeast Asia, India, Sri Lanka, Madagascar, and southern and tropical Africa, where at least 65 species occur. Some can survive in harsh desert or semi-desert climates (xerophytic), others in wet rain forest conditions, and some in both. Some can grow in sand or even on rock, some in oxygen-poor, swampy, bog-like soils rich in organic material. Some are able to grow in full sun, some in full shade, and some in both. Some are salt tolerant (halophytes).\n\nSpecies diversity of the extant cycads peaks at 17˚ 15\"N and 28˚ 12\"S, with a minor peak at the equator. There is therefore not a latitudinal diversity gradient towards the equator but towards the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. However, the peak near the northern tropic is largely due to \"Cycas\" in Asia and \"Zamia\" in the New World, whereas the peak near the southern tropic is due to \"Cycas\" again, and also to the diverse genus \"Encephalartos\" in southern and central Africa, and \"Macrozamia\" in Australia. Thus, the distribution pattern of cycad species with latitude appears to be an artifact of the geographical isolation of the remaining cycad genera and their species, and perhaps because they are partly xerophytic rather than simply tropical.\nNotes: The distribution area on the map should be expanded to include the range of \"Macrozamia macdonnelliana\" in the central region of Australia, \"Zamia boliviana\" in Bolivia and Mato Grosso, Brazil, \"Cycas thouarsii\" on Comoros and Seychelles, and \"Cycas micronesica\" on the islands of Guam, Palau, Rota, & Yap. \nAlso, the depiction of cycad distribution in Africa, particularly the western boundary, should be improved to show the actual range limits, rather than national borders.\n\nIn Vanuatu, the cycad is known as \"namele\" and is an important symbol of traditional culture. It serves as a powerful taboo sign, and a pair of \"namele\" leaves appears on the national flag and coat of arms. Together with the nanggaria plant, another symbol of Vanuatu culture, the \"namele\" also gives its name to Nagriamel, an indigenous political movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3559731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3559731", "title": "DUAL (cognitive architecture)", "text": "DUAL (cognitive architecture)\n\nDUAL is a general cognitive architecture integrating the connectionist and symbolic approaches at the micro level. DUAL is based on decentralized representation and emergent computation. It was inspired by the Society of Mind idea proposed by Marvin Minsky but departs from the initial proposal in many ways. Computations in DUAL emerge from the interaction of many micro-agents each of which is hybrid symbolic/connectionist device. The agents exchange messages and activation via links that can be learnt and modified, they form coalitions which collectively represent concepts, episodes, and facts. \n\nSeveral models have been developed on the basis of DUAL. These include: AMBR (a model of analogy-making and memory), JUDGEMAP (a model of judgment), PEAN (a model of perception), etc.\n\nDUAL is developed by a team at the New Bulgarian University led by Boicho Kokinov. The second version was co-authored by Alexander Petrov. The third version is co-authored by Georgi Petkov and Ivan Vankov.\n\n"}
{"id": "55797880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55797880", "title": "Deadliest single days of World War I", "text": "Deadliest single days of World War I\n\nThe First World War was fought on many fronts around the world from the battlefields of Europe to the far-flung colonies in the Pacific and Africa. While it is most famous for the trench combat stalemate that existed on Europe's Western Front, in other theatres of combat the fighting was mobile and often involved set-piece battles and cavalry charges. The Eastern Front often took thousands of casualties a day during the big offensive pushes but it was the West that saw the most concentrated slaughter. It was in the west that the newly industrialized world powers could focus their end products on the military-industrial complex. The deadliest day of the war was during the opening day of the conflict. The Imperial German war council had initiated the Schlieffen Plan which involved multiple armies flooding through the borders of Belgium and France. On August 22, 1914, during the Battle of the Frontiers five separate French armies engaged the German invaders independently of each other. Across all those battlefields, on that single day, 27,000 French soldiers lost their lives protecting their country.\n\nThe term \"casualty\" in warfare can often be misleading. It often does not refer to those who are killed on the battlefield rather it refers to those who can no longer fight. This can include disabled by injuries, disabled by psychological trauma, captured, deserted, or missing. A casualty is by definition a soldier who is no longer available for the immediate battle or campaign, the major consideration in combat; the number of casualties is simply the number of members of a unit who are not available for duty. For example, on March 21, 1918, during the opening day of Kaiserschlacht, the Germans casualties are broken down into 10,851 killed, 28,778 wounded, 300 POW or taken prisoner for a total of 39,929 casualties. The word \"casualty\" has been used in a military context since at least 1513. In this article the numbers killed refer to those killed in action, killed by disease or someone who died from their wounds.\n\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38804447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38804447", "title": "Death Locket", "text": "Death Locket\n\nDeath Locket (Rebecca Ryker) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nDeath Locket first appeared in issue #1 of the \"Avengers Arena\" series as part of the \"Marvel NOW!\" event, and was created by Dennis Hopeless and Kev Walker.\n\nDeath Locket appears as one of the main characters in \"Avengers Undercover\" beginning in 2014.\n\nA female teenage version of Deathlok is one of sixteen teenagers kidnapped by Arcade who forces them to fight each other to the death in his latest version of Murderworld. As the games in Murderworld begin, she faces off against Hazmat and then fights Cammi soon after. Cammi gives her the nickname Death Locket. Throughout the first day, Death Locket remembers the past events that led to her origins. She is revealed to be Rebecca Ryker, the daughter of Harlan Ryker. After being maimed in an explosion that killed her mother and brother, Rebecca was rebuilt using the Deathlok technology that her father developed. She joins the Braddock Academy group (consisting of Apex, Kid Briton, Anachronism, Bloodstone and Nara). Juston is attacked by an unidentified cybernetic creature and the Sentinel he is working on folds around him apparently crushing him.\n\nAn earthquake separates Bloodstone and Anachronism from Apex, Nara, Kid Briton, and Death Locket. An injured Reptil wakes up and clears Chase's reputation, saying that Death Locket was the one who attacked him. Meanwhile, Rebecca goes dormant as her Death Locket cybernetics take over and she blasts Nara off a cliff and into the ocean. Kid Briton is enraged by this and tries to kill her until Apex orders him not to. Nara, Anachronism, and Bloodstone manage to survive falling into the chasm and come to the conclusion that Apex is manipulating Death Locket and Kid Briton to her own ends. Nara and Apex later start arguing and Apex confirms that she was the one who ordered Death Locket to attack Nara. Juston Seyfert is revealed to have survived the attack from the cybernetic creature, but is now paralyzed below the waist due to the injuries sustained when the Sentinel crashed. Distraught at the loss of his best friend, Juston salvages the remains of the Sentinel and creates a suit of battle armor which he uses to attack Death Locket. Apex uses Death Locket to help her kill Nico. After the Staff of One resurrects Nico, she disassembles Death Locket's cybernetic arm, and traps her and Apex underground. Death Locket explores the facility she and Apex end up in. Apex's brother Tim repairs Death Locket's arm, giving her a new cannon, and she unleashes Chris Powell, the original Darkhawk, to attack Arcade. Arcade soon escapes and talks Apex into finishing the game. She regains control of Death Locket and uses her to blast Chris. Apex unleashes bugs, sentient typhoon, and weaponized sand to attack the remaining teens on Murderworld. Tim soon breaks Death Locket free, and she becomes enraged enough to attack Apex. Apex soon reverts to Tim and asks Death Locket to shoot him, thereby stopping the games. She is shocked at first, but soon complies, and everyone is able to escape Murderworld and disperse.\n\nOnce news broke about Arcade's kidnappings, Death Locket and the other Murder World Survivors became infamous. Death Locket was the subject of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents gushing over her actions in the Arena, which was something she didn't appreciate. However, when Anachronism reveals Bloodstone's gone missing, all the survivors team up to head to Bagalia to find him. On their way in, Death Locket reveals that she really doesn't know how to fight, but Hazmat encourages her to use her gun and then congratulates her on how well it worked. Once they find Bloodstone, he reveals that he enjoys life among the villains, and the others, minus Cammi, start to enjoy it as well. Death Locket even gets hit on by Excavator of the Wrecking Crew. When Cammi tries to tell the others to leave, Bloodstone instead has Daimon Hellstrom teleport the group to Arcade's latest party so they can kill him. While at the party, Death Locket escorts Cullen and Nico to take down Arcade's computers and stop his powers so the group can fight him. They succeed and beat up Arcade before Hazmat kills him with a large radiation blast. After escaping the mansion, the group is captured by S.H.I.E.L.D., but are soon \"rescued\" by Daimon Hellstorm. The Son of Satan brings the group before Baron Zemo who offers the group a chance to join his forces. While taking the tour of Bagalia given by Constrictor, Becca and Chase find themselves bonding with the Young Masters. Once again, Becca finds herself bonding with Excavator. The rest of the group meets up while Becca is hanging out with the Young Masters. Every member of the group, with the exception of Cammi, accepts Baron Zemo's offer. While playing games with Excavator and the Young Masters, which include firing laser guns at each other during kart races, Chase tries to get Death Locket alone, saying he has been trying to do so for a week. Before Chase can tell her a secret, an alarm sounds and the Young Masters are called into action. The group battles A.I.M. on A.I.M. Island. She begins to enjoy combat, thinking of it as a game. Death Locket sees Captain America land a Quinjet in the battle. Excavator encourages her to shoot Captain America in the back. Chase intervenes and saves the captain's life and attacks Excavator. He informs Becca that the group never really joined the Masters of Evil and have infiltrated the group to try and take them down from the inside. As Excavator and Chase battle, they tell Death Locket to pick a side, and in a state of panic she fires and shoots Chase in the chest. When returning to Bagalia, Death Locket lies to the group saying Chase was injured in combat. He is left comatose. Over the span of three months, Death Locket embraced being part of the Young Masters. Getting a new costume, haircut, and a number of piercings on her right ear and eyebrow. She is enjoying battling the forces of S.H.I.E.L.D. Hazmat tries to secretly contact Becca, who reveals she knew the truth of the undercover team. She, and the other Young Masters, ambush Hazmat, but were defeated. Death Locket joins with the forces of Bagalia to fight the number of superheroes who came to rescue the team and confront Baron Zemo. Baron Zemo, Madame Masque, Constrictor, Daimon Hellstrom, and Death Locket teleport onto the S.H.I.E.L.D. Hellicarrier Circe. The Baron has Death Locket use her powers to crack the helicarrier's guidance system and fly them out, which she easily achieves. After gaining control of the helicarrier, she hacked into S.H.I.E.L.D.'s communication network, which gave Baron Zemo access to every television, phone, computer, and tablet in the world. When confronted by Cammi, now using Arcade's God Mode technology from Murderworld, Death Locket surrenders. She escapes with the Masters of Evil and is last seen as the pilot of their airship.\n\nHer left arm can transform into a powerful ray-gun. She is vulnerable to control by Apex's technopathy, and also may generally lack control over her abilities. It is not yet revealed whether she has cybernetic uplink and other Deathlok abilities, but she was able to shut down Arcade's complex computer systems. She is seen struggling to use her cybernetic uplink to take control of the computer systems in Arcade's mansion. After several months, she has gotten better with her uplink and is able to take over a S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier and pilot it single-handed, and hack into S.H.I.E.L.D.'s worldwide communication network in a matter of minutes.\n\nHer Deathlok cybernetics use nanite antibodies to turn any prosthetic limbs designed by SHIELD into weapons, each version more powerful then the previous.\n\nShe is seen having the ability to alter the form of her cybernetic arm into different shapes, such as a spiked mace.\n\nWhile she gained some combat experience fighting alongside the Young Masters, she is still inept at combat, and was easily bested by Hazmat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43885123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43885123", "title": "Death of Aaliyah", "text": "Death of Aaliyah\n\nAaliyah was an American singer and actress who was killed in a plane crash on August 25, 2001 at the Marsh Harbour Airport on the Abaco Islands, Bahamas. She had just completed filming for the music video for her single \"Rock the Boat\". Employees of Virgin Records America accompanied her on the flight. The Cessna 402 twin-engine light aircraft, piloted by Luis Morales III, crashed shortly after takeoff. In addition to Aaliyah, eight other people were killed in the plane crash. She was 22 years old.\n\nThe investigation following the crash looked into the possibility that the aircraft was overloaded. Three days after the crash, Aaliyah's remains were returned to the United States. Her funeral was held on August 31, 2001, in Manhattan. Her death came only a month after the release of her self-titled third album, \"Aaliyah\". Posters for the album became memorials for grieving fans. At her funeral, she was eulogized by her brother Rashad Haughton.\n\nAppearing on BET's \"106 & Park\" on August 21, 2001, Aaliyah announced that shooting of the video for the single \"Rock the Boat\", to be directed by Hype Williams, would begin the following day. Nearly sixty people worked on the video in the Bahamas. On August 22, she filmed underwater shots for the video in Miami, Florida. On August 23, Aaliyah and employees of Virgin Records America flew to the Bahamas on two flights using a Fairchild Metro III, chartered through Sky Limo. She was scheduled to leave the Bahamas on August 26, but chose to leave the day before since she had finished early. Williams recalled: \"Aaliyah left mid-production, so we were still shooting when she left\".\n\nAccording to her brother, Rashad Haughton, this was the first time in her career that she was not accompanied by a member of her family. At the time of the video's shooting, Rashad was in Australia, and her mother had recently had eye surgery and was being cared for by her father.\n\nOn Saturday, August 25, 2001, after Aaliyah and the record company employees had completed filming the music video for \"Rock the Boat\", At 6:50 p.m. (EDT), they boarded a twin-engine Cessna 402B (registration N8097W) at the Marsh Harbour Airport, located on the Abaco Islands, for the return trip back to Opa-locka Airport in Florida. The return flight was originally booked for the following day, but filming had finished early, and Aaliyah and her entourage were eager to return to the U.S. They made the decision to leave immediately. The aircraft designated for the return flight was smaller than the one on which they had originally arrived, but it accommodated the whole party and all of their equipment.\n\nThe passengers had grown impatient because the Cessna was supposed to arrive at 4:30 p.m. EDT, but did not arrive until 6:15 p.m. EDT. Charter pilot Lewis Key claimed to have overheard passengers arguing with fellow pilot Luis Morales III prior to take off, adding that Morales warned them that there was too much weight for a \"safe flight\". Key further stated: \"He tried to convince them the plane was overloaded, but they insisted they had chartered the plane and they had to be in Miami Saturday night.\" Key indicated that Morales gave in to the passengers and that he had trouble starting one of the engines.\n\nThe aircraft crashed shortly after takeoff, about from the runway. Aaliyah and the eight others on board: Morales, hair stylist Eric Foreman, Anthony Dodd, security guard Scott Gallin, family friend Keith Wallace, make-up artist Christopher Maldonado, and Blackground Records employees Douglas Kratz and Gina Smith were all killed. Gallin survived the initial impact and, according to paramedics, spent his last moments worrying about Aaliyah's condition. Kathleen Bergen, spokeswoman for the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in Atlanta, identified the aircraft as being owned by Florida-based company Skystream. Initial crash reports identified Luis Morales as \"L Marael\".\n\nKey suggested that engine failure, along with overloading of the aircraft, could have caused the crash, recalling that others had seen the plane experience an engine failure on takeoff. One witness believed that no one could have survived the accident because of the crash intensity and the fact that the aircraft had disintegrated upon impact. He also recalled the condition of the bodies: \"It was an awful sight. Some bodies were so badly disfigured, you couldn't identify them. And two guys were alive — one screaming and screaming for help. He was horribly burned all over.\" A 25-year-old charter pilot who witnessed the crash saw the Cessna go down as he was working on some machinery \"about half a mile\" away. He recalled the aircraft being only \"60 to 100 feet\" off the ground before it crashed. He went to get a fire truck and was stunned by what he saw upon arriving at the crash site. \"I've seen crashes before but that was probably one of the worst ones,\" he said. \"It was pretty devastating. The aircraft was broken into pieces and some of the seats were thrown from the aircraft.\"\n\nThe \"New York Post\" printed one of the last photographs taken of Aaliyah, but wrongly labeled it as taken before the crash with a fan, Alvin Lightbourne, who wanted it as a souvenir. The photo was in fact taken when Aaliyah arrived to the Bahamas, on Thursday, August 23. She had spoken to the fan for 15 minutes and gave him a hug as well. Lightbourne praised her for a recent donation to a charity and Aaliyah explained: \"God blessed me with money and now it's time to give back.\"\n\nAaliyah spoke a month before her death about her favorite dream: \"Someone's following me and I don't know why. I'm scared. Then suddenly I lift off. Far away. As if I'm swimming in the air. Nobody can reach me. Nobody can touch me. It's a wonderful feeling\".\n\nAccording to the findings of an inquest conducted by the coroner's office in the Bahamas, Aaliyah suffered from \"severe burns and a blow to the head\", in addition to severe shock and a weak heart. The coroner theorized that she went into such a state of shock that even if she had survived the crash, her recovery would have been nearly impossible. The bodies, some of them badly burned, were taken to the morgue at Princess Margaret Hospital in Nassau, where they remained until relatives made positive identification.\n\nThe subsequent investigation determined that when the aircraft attempted to depart, it was over its maximum takeoff weight by and had one more passenger than it was certified to carry. An informational report issued by the National Transportation Safety Board stated, \"The airplane was seen lifting off the runway, and then nose down, impacting in a marsh on the south side of the departure end of runway 27.\" It indicated that the pilot was not approved to fly the aircraft. Morales had falsely obtained his FAA license by showing logs of hundreds of flight hours he had never flown. He may also have falsified the number of hours he had flown to get the job with his employer, Blackhawk International Airways. Additionally, Morales' toxicology report revealed traces of cocaine and alcohol in his system.\n\nThe NTSB reported that the maximum allowed gross weight of the aircraft was \"substantially exceeded\" and that the center of gravity was positioned beyond its rear limit. The U.S. joined the investigation on August 27, 2001, as authorities from the NTSB and the FAA arrived in the Bahamas. On August 31, the day of Aaliyah's funeral, an independent expert of the Cessna Pilots Association reported that the aircraft was overloaded. His statement came as investigators declined to comment on weight being a factor in the crash.\n\nOn August 28, 2001, Aaliyah's remains were transported from the Bahamas back to the U.S. Over 100 people waited outside the funeral home in Nassau as four men lifted her coffin into a hearse. It was then taken to the Nassau airport, where a private jet waited to return the body to Newark International Airport in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nA director at the funeral home in Nassau said people started calling in on August 27 to pay their respects. The other victims' bodies were repatriated on August 29. A U.S. Embassy spokesman reported that Virgin Records America paid the cost of all mortuary services in the Bahamas, the return of the bodies to the U.S., as well as the funerals.\n\nAaliyah's family was staying at the Trump International Hotel when her body was returned. Staff reported flowers and condolences had been sent in steadily since her death. A worker at the reception desk disclosed that at least 500 bouquets, delivered mostly by grieving fans, had arrived for the family in the three days between the crash and the return of her body. Aaliyah's publicist, Jill Fritzo, said the Haughton family was touched by the support they received from fans and reported the condition of the family. \"They're hanging in there. It's very tough for them\".\n\nAaliyah's private funeral services were held on August 31, 2001, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel and at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in Manhattan. Her body was set in a silver-plated copper-deposit casket, which was carried in a horse-drawn, glass hearse. An estimated 800 mourners were in attendance at the procession. The luminaries included Missy Elliott, Timbaland, Gladys Knight, Lil' Kim, and Sean Combs. After the service, 22 white doves were released to symbolize each year of her life. Aaliyah was initially entombed in a crypt on the third floor of the expansion wing of Ferncliff Cemetery's main mausoleum in Hartsdale, New York. In April 2005, she was moved to a private room at the end of a corridor in the Rosewood Mausoleum. The inscription \"BABY GIRL\" appears on Aaliyah's crypt. Her father Michael, who died eleven years later in 2012 at age 61, is interred in the crypt directly above her. The inscription at the bottom of Aaliyah's portrait at the funeral read: \"We Were Given a Queen, We Were Given an Angel.”\n\nAaliyah's brother Rashad delivered the eulogy and described his sister as giving him strength. \"Aaliyah, you left, but I'll see you always next to me and I can see you smiling through the sunshine,\" he said. \"When our life is over, our book is done. I hope God keeps me strong until I see her again.\" He read the names of the other victims of the crash and concluded by asking mourners to pray for them as well. As Diane Haughton and the mourners left, they sang Aaliyah's song \"One in a Million\".\n\nRod Dreher, a columnist at the \"New York Post\", criticized the funeral for being out of hand. \"Right, so we're all sad that Aaliyah is dead, and no one begrudges her a proper sendoff. But a traffic-snarling, horse-drawn cortege in honor of a pop singer most people have never heard of? Give us a break.\" Al Sharpton responded to the column by defending the funeral and Aaliyah, questioning how \"you determine that one life is not as important as another?\" Col Allan, editor of the \"New York Post\", supported the column and Dreher, saying he \"had a right to express an opinion.\"\n\nBlackhawk International Airways came under scrutiny by the FAA, which reported that the charter service had authorization for limited use of the aircraft to the degree that it was theorized that Morales would normally not have been able to pilot it. In the three years prior to the crash, Blackhawk was cited four times for violations. The company was fined $1,500 in 1998 for violating safety rules in U.S. airspace. It received a warning for not testing employees for drugs in 1999, and was cited in 2000 for failing to comply with maintenance standards. Gilbert Chacon, head of Blackhawk at the time of the crash, pleaded guilty in 1993 to bankruptcy fraud involving another charter service. There was no evidence that Blackhawk managers had prior knowledge of Chacon's background.\n\nAfter the crash, revelations came to light concerning Morales' private life, as well as his activities during the final month before the crash. From an early age, Morales had expressed interest in aviation. His grandfather was a commercial pilot who gave him his first flights at age eleven. Morales began formal flight training at age seventeen at the Isla Grande Flying School at Fernando Ribas Dominicci Airport in Isla Grande, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Following the accident, authorities told his relatives not to discuss the case; however, Morales' sister spoke on behalf of the family. \"We are confident the investigation is not going to disclose anything that would involve negligence on behalf of my brother. He has vast experience flying planes. He had been doing it since he was 14... They are talking about a person who cannot defend himself.\"\n\nMorales received his pilot's license in February 2000. His job for Blackhawk was his second attempt to work as a commercial pilot since getting his license. In October 2000, he had been turned down for being too inexperienced after applying to Tropic Air of Fort Lauderdale. Broward County Sheriff’s records showed Morales had been caught with crack cocaine in his car after being pulled over for driving his car through a stop sign on August 7, 2001; he was booked on a felony cocaine-possession charge. He was also charged for driving with a suspended license and running a stop sign. The arrest report stated that Morales told officers he was in the area to purchase powder cocaine for a friend.\n\nThe Associated Press, \"The Palm Beach Post\" and other news outlets reported allegations that Morales had been sentenced to probation on August 13, 2001, the result of being found with a small amount of cocaine in his car during the traffic stop. Other reports, such as one by \"The New York Times\" on September 8, 2001, and another in the Broward County \"Sun-Sentinel\", questioned whether he was qualified to fly the aircraft. Gabriel Penagaricano, a lawyer for the Morales family, dismissed any questions about Morales' flight record as \"the words of a fool\". He defended Morales as a \"young man, totally dedicated to his profession ... [who] had set his sights on flying for one of the major airlines. In the meantime, he was doing what everybody else of his age and experience does, which is to fly for a charter operator in order to build up flying time.\" Penagaricano claimed Morales was \"certainly\" qualified to pilot a Cessna 402B. Shortly before the crash, Morales was fired as a pilot from Golden Airlines in Florida for failing to appear at work.\n\nOn August 28, 2001, U.S. aviation officials said that Morales had been hired by Blackhawk just two days before the crash, and was not authorized by the FAA to fly the aircraft for the operator. FAA records showed that Blackhawk was clear to fly aircraft under a single-pilot certificate. However, according to Kathleen Bergen, Morales was not on the name authorization papers. Bergen did not identify the pilot who was on the papers, since \"it would not be appropriate\" to release it, but confirmed Morales was not qualified to fly the Cessna. Morales's father addressed his son's death and responsibility in the crash: \"Luis was responsible for nine lives - eight plus his own. Someone is going to have to respond for those eight lives. And someone is going to have to respond for his life to me.\" He said he had spoken to his son in early August 2001 and the younger Morales related he was doing something he was passionate about.\n\nThe day of the crash was Morales' first official day with Blackhawk, an FAA Part 135 single-pilot operation. He was not registered with the FAA to fly for Blackhawk and, as a result of the accident, Aaliyah's parents filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the company, which was settled out of court for an undisclosed amount. Barry & Sons, Inc., a corporation formed in 1992 to develop, promote, and capitalize Aaliyah, and to oversee the production and distribution of her records and music videos, brought an unsuccessful lawsuit in the New York Supreme Court against Instinct Productions LLC, the company that was hired in August 2001 to produce the music video for \"Rock the Boat\". The case was dismissed because New York's wrongful death statute permits only certain people related to the deceased to recover damages for wrongful death.\n\nThe families of Foreman and Dodd filed lawsuits against Virgin Records America, alleging the record label was negligent in chartering the aircraft that crashed, killing all the passengers. The lawsuit noted that Blackhawk had been cited four times in the previous four years. At a news conference, attorney Brian Panish charged that the crash victims died instantly because Virgin Records America \"put profits over people\". In less than a week, the relatives of Gallin sued Virgin Records America, claiming that the label, and its affiliated music and video production units, were liable for his death because they handled the arrangements for Aaliyah’s video shoot in the Bahamas. Gallin's relatives claimed that the label should have hired a “competent” transportation broker and air charter company, and that Blackhawk allowed the pilot to fly the aircraft even though he was unqualified, and took off with it dangerously overloaded. Stuart Grossman represented the Gallin family during the lawsuit and reasoned that even the pilot did not want to take off because of overloading and called it \"outrageous\". He added: \"This is a case of trying to put a size 12 foot in a size 10 shoe.\"\n\nIn May 2002, Aaliyah's parents filed a lawsuit, similar to those filed by the families of Foreman and Dodd, against Virgin Records America in Los Angeles, alleging negligence. Their lawsuit claimed that a \"dangerous and unsafe configuration\" of the Cessna was the cause of the crash and that it was the \"wrong plane\" for the charter flight; the litigation also asserted that Morales was not properly qualified to operate the aircraft. In addition to suing Virgin Records America, the lawsuit named Blackhawk International Airways, music video director Harold Williams, Instinct Productions, Big Dog House Films, Blackground Records LLC, and Skystream. An investigator for the Bahamian Civil Aviation Department stated neither Blackhawk or Skystream had a permit to operate commercial charter flights in the Bahamas. In September 2003, the Haughtons' lawyers filed a notice in federal court that the case had been settled with an agreement to keep the monetary details confidential.\n\nIn August 2002, the funeral home that had prepared the crash victims' bodies publicly accused Virgin Records America of not paying its bill. Loretta Butler-Turner, of Butler's Funeral Homes and Crematorium in Nassau, told \"Time\" magazine that $68,000 was spent preparing the bodies and, at the time, Virgin executives Ken and Nancy Berry agreed to cover all expenses. At the time of Turner's announcement, the Berrys had left the record label. Turner tried to contact executives at Virgin Records, and appealed to the U.S. Embassy in Nassau for help, but failed to resolve the situation. \"They have kept us waiting for nearly a year and have basically said, since the Berrys are no longer there, they have no responsibility to us,\" Turner stated. Although the funeral home did not take legal action, Turner did contact Robert Spragg, the Haughtons' lawyer. According to Spragg, the label also owed the Haughton family money for funeral costs, stating: \"Those payments were never made to the family to reimburse those costs, and they were substantial\".\n\nTurner spoke to E! Online news about the case and reflected on how events had unfolded. \"Because Aaliyah was, in their words, 'high profile,' they asked us to expedite things. So we were working over the weekend to get the bodies out as quickly as possible,\" Turner said. \"[The deal] was all verbal, but the truth of the matter is, [the Berrys] knew they were obliged. They contacted all of the families themselves, sent us all of the necessary information, and told us not to deal directly with the family members, that they would be responsible.\" It was reported that Aaliyah's parents planned to file a lawsuit against Virgin Records America for not fulfilling its promise to pay Aaliyah's funeral expenses. Turner said she would hold on to the victims' death certificates, which were required before estates could be settled or lawsuits could be filed.\n\nTurner said she had been unsuccessful in contacting company executives by telephone calls, letters, and faxes. She said the funeral home had a good relationship with the U.S. Embassy, which, according to her, had supported a potential lawsuit against Virgin Records America since Butler's was a reputable company. \"Now this reputable company (Virgin) has kept us waiting for nearly a year and have basically said, since the Berrys are no longer there, they have no responsibility to us. I don't know if they think we are some sort of Third-World banana republic and we're not up to scratch, but it just gives a pretty bad view of things in our view.\"\n\nIn May 2004, a judge ruled that Blackground Entertainment, Aaliyah's record company, could sue Instinct Productions, which had provided transportation for the filming of \"Rock the Boat.\" Blackground had filed a negligence lawsuit in civil court against Instinct Productions in November 2003. Instinct Productions argued that Blackground had no right to recover damages since Aaliyah was a company employee. But Judge Carol Edmead found that Aaliyah was also Blackground's chief asset. She wrote that the company's: \"growth and prosperity were primarily the result of its efforts to successfully develop and nurture Aaliyah's career\". She noted the company was founded in 1992 by Barry Hankerson for the sole purpose of promoting Aaliyah, who was thirteen at the time.\n\nFans of Aaliyah were reportedly grieving in New York City, where the singer had spent the first five years of her life there before relocating to Detroit. Quincy Jones told the Associated Press that he was devastated by her death. Tourism minister Turnquest stated: “We find it devastating and most unfortunate that after having this world-famous star Aaliyah and her crew select the Bahamas as their choice location for her latest video, the project has climaxed on such a tragic note”. Two days after she died, on August 27, 2001, fans gathered near her former high school to remember her in a candlelight vigil. By August 29, 2001, nearly 6,000 people had emailed BBC News \"expressing shock and sorrow\" at her death.\n\nGladys Knight said she felt \"blessed\" to have known Aaliyah and stated: \"I watched her grow up, and, with the rest of the world, saw her achieve success with her special and unique talents\". She continued: \"From an early age, I knew she had enormous talents, an intrinsic gift. When she first performed with me in Las Vegas, she was still quite young, but she already had it - that spark the world would later see and fall in love with.\" Silbert Mills, an official on Abaco Island, reported the denizens playing her music there and added: \"That's the whole tragedy of it. We felt as if we knew her, yet we didn't.\" Beyoncé praised her good nature and stated: \"She was one of the first celebrities we met, she was so nice, we went out, we hung out with her, and it's really sad and we're trying to be strong\". Lil' Kim described the crash as \"really devastating\" and said she \"could never find anything bad about her\".\n\nActor Jet Li, her co-star from the film \"Romeo Must Die\", heard of her death and was \"deeply saddened that she is no longer with us. She was a wonderful and talented artist who will be missed by everyone whose lives she touched\". DMX called her \"talented, classy, warm, beautiful, compassionate, humble.\" Damon Dash said he was \"crushed and heartbroken over the loss of such a beautiful and talented woman whom I loved deeply and meant the world to me.\" and Combs remembered Aaliyah as \"just one of those individuals that would light up a room\", adding: \"She was very down to earth. She was a special individual...We all saw her grow up from a little girl into a woman. It's a hard, sad day for everyone\". Ginuwine referred to her as family, said he would miss her and offered his condolences to her family, while speaking to the New York \"Daily News\" from Los Angeles. Brian McKnight complimented Aaliyah as being \"really genuine and nice and not jaded about being a star\". Jill Scott said she felt numb over Aaliyah's death given her age, talent and beauty and added, \"It hurts, and it's sad, and we'll miss her\".\n\nOn August 27, Star, a shock jock at New York radio station Hot 97, mocked her death by playing a tape of a woman screaming while a crash was heard in the background. Rumors circulated that he was attacked by friends of Aaliyah, which he denied. Star was suspended and expressed remorse for his actions, admitting they were in \"poor taste\". He said, \"I'm trying not to make fun of anything Aaliyah-related right now, because I'm aware people are trying to focus all their anger on me.\"\n\nFollowing Aaliyah's death, there was an increase in sales of her self-titled third album, which had been released only a month before and had debuted at number two on the \"Billboard 200\", selling over 187,000 copies in its first week. According to \"SoundScan\", this was more than four times greater than the first-week's sales of her previous effort, 1996's \"One in a Million\". The album was already gold when she flew to Abaco Island in the Bahamas. Prior to her death, lacking a second single and promotion, \"Aaliyah\" was selling slower than her second album. By 2009, the album was estimated to have sold three million copies. In the weeks following her death, the album went from number nineteen to number one on the \"Billboard 200\", as retailers reported massive sales after her death. The following year in 2002, a compilation album titled \"I Care 4 U\" was released, featuring six new songs which sold 1.73 million copies.\n\nAt the time of her death, Aaliyah was working on several film appearances to be released back-to-back. One of these was a remake of the 1976 film \"Sparkle\", produced by Whitney Houston. Houston would later say that Aaliyah was interested in being in the film to the point of being \"enthusiastic\". After she died, Houston shelved the project because her lead had \"gone to a better place.\" The film was later completed in 2011, with Jordin Sparks replacing Aaliyah. She had filmed part of her role in 2003's \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and was scheduled to appear in its sequel \"The Matrix Revolutions\". Nona Gaye was recast in the role.\n\nAaliyah's death has been referenced in popular culture numerous times. Jay-Z did a remix to her song \"Miss You\" where he spoke to her in the lyric, “What’s up baby girl? You know I had to talk to you again,” before listing the names of people in her life who missed her such as Timbaland, Missy Elliott, and her brother Rashad. He then addressed her relationship with Damon Dash and called her \"our little angel\". The music video for \"Miss You\" featured tributes by Aaliyah's friends and collaborators. The Jay-Z song \"Glory\" mentioned the crash, warning his daughter to exercise safety in the lyric, \"Just make sure the plane you’re on is bigger than your carry-on baggage\". \n\n\"\", a biopic of Aaliyah's life, does not feature a re-creation of the crash, but does mention her death in text following the final scene where she parts ways with Dash to leave for the Bahamas. The rapper J. Cole has a line in the third verse of the song \"No Role Modelz\" which is: \"My only regret could never take Aaliyah home.\" Kendrick Lamar has also mentioned her in the song \"Blow my High\", in which he sings \"R.I.P Aaliyah, R.I.P\", the song ends with a sample from Aaliyah's song \"4 Page Letter\".\n"}
{"id": "4486767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4486767", "title": "Death of Oury Jalloh", "text": "Death of Oury Jalloh\n\nOury Jalloh (born 1968 in Kabala, Sierra Leone; died 7 January 2005 in Dessau, Germany) was an asylum seeker who died in a fire in a police cell in Dessau, Germany. The hands and feet of Jalloh, who was alone in the cell, were tied to a mattress. A fire alarm went off, but was initially turned off without further action by an officer. The case caused national and international outrage.\n\nIn 2007, two officers were charged with causing bodily harm with fatal consequences and with involuntary manslaughter, respectively, but were acquitted in December 2008 for lack of evidence. According to the presiding judge, contradictory testimony had prevented clarification of the circumstances and had obstructed due process. The Federal Court of Justice annulled one of the acquittals, and since January 2011, a different Landgericht than before is concerned with the case.\n\nAccording to his tombstone in Sierra Leone, Oury Jalloh was born in 1968. In 2000, he fled from the Sierra Leone Civil War to Guinea, where his parents were already living, and then further to Germany, where he applied for political asylum. Although his application was declined, he remained in the country. His child with a German citizen was put up for adoption by the mother shortly after birth. Several weeks before his death, Jalloh was convicted to a prison sentence of three and a half years for commercial drug trafficking.\n\nAccording to the investigators, the fire broke out in the cell around midday. The fire alarm went off on two occasions. Noises and cries for help coming from the acoustically controlled cell were registered but ignored. Supposedly, the supervising police officer turned off the sound of the acoustic system shortly before twelve because he could not understand a telephone conversation. Only when the air-control alarm went off did he go down into the basement where the cell was located. But by that time Jalloh was found lying on a burning mattress, his body severely burned and his hands bound to the bed frame. The remains of a lighter were only found in later investigations.\n\nChief prosecutor Folker Bittmann for the Oury Jalloh case is also responsible for the Yangjie Li case, a 25-year-old Chinese architecture student murdered near her student accommodation in Dessau. During the course of the police investigation, the suspect's police parents fell into general suspicion of having covered up the evidences. Bittmann's spread of the version of the suspects' testimony that the victim had \"consensual sex\" with them at a press conference also caused outrage among the victim's parents, Chinese students in Dessau and throughout the country.\n\nEnglish:\n\nGerman:\n"}
{"id": "530251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530251", "title": "Deathlok", "text": "Deathlok\n\nDeathlok (also referred to as Deathlok the Demolisher) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He first appeared in \"Astonishing Tales\" #25 (Aug. 1974), created by Rich Buckler and Doug Moench. At least three subsequent Marvel characters have used the \"Deathlok\" identity since then. A recurring theme among these characters is that a dead human has been reanimated with cybernetic technology. \"Deathlok technology\" has also been used thematically by Marvel writers in other stories. The character has also appeared on television in animation and live action.\n\nAlthough initially announced as the new lead feature for Marvel's \"Worlds Unknown\" comic, under the title \"Cyborg\", the first Deathlok series ran in \"Astonishing Tales\" #25-28, 30-36 (cover-dated Aug. 1974 - July 1976). This initial version of the character, Luther Manning, later guest-starred with Spider-Man in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #46 (June 1976), and the story from the cancelled \"Astonishing Tales\" comics was finished in \"Marvel Spotlight\" #33 (April 1977).\n\nDeathlok subsequently appeared with the Thing, a member of the superhero team the Fantastic Four, in \"Marvel Two-in-One\" #26, 27, 28, 34 and #54, although one appearance was actually a robot and not the genuine Deathlok. The Luther Manning Deathlok then appeared in \"Captain America\" #286-288 (Oct.-Dec. 1983).\n\nA new Deathlok, Michael Collins, debuted in the limited series \"Deathlok\" #1-4 (July-Oct. 1990, reprinted as \"Deathlok Special\" #1-4 the following year). He was the second Deathlok to be created in the modern era and also the second to be created for the traditional Marvel Universe. This second Deathlok went on to a 34-issue series cover-dated July 1991 to April 1994, plus two summer annuals in 1992 and 1993.\n\nThe third Deathlok, S.H.I.E.L.D. espionage agent Jack Truman, debuted in an 11-issue limited series (Sept. 1999 - June 2000).\n\nDeathlok has also appeared in four issues of the limited series \"Beyond!\", and Michael Collins, in human form and not as Deathlok, appeared in \"Fantastic Four\" #544-545 (May–June 2007). Multiple unnamed Deathlok units appear in \"Black Panther\" vol. 4, #1-6. Possessing no human sentience, they were automatons created from corpses of soldiers killed in Iraq.\n\nA new Deathlok named Henry Hayes debuted during the \"Original Sin\" event from Nathan Edmondson and Mike Perkins. While the character was considered to be an adaptation of the Marvel Cinematic Universe portrayal of Deathlok, Mike Petersen, Edmondson stated that the coincidences were just \"happy similarities\" and that ultimately they tried to go for a total original concept. This Deathlok has his own ongoing series that began in October 2014.\n\nColonel Luther Manning is an American soldier from Detroit, Michigan, who, after being fatally injured, is reanimated in a post-apocalyptic future (originally given the date of 1990) only to discover that what remains of his dead body has been turned into the experimental Deathlok cyborg by Simon Ryker. He verbally communicates with his symbiotic computer, to which he refers as the abbreviated \"'Puter\". He escapes from Ryker's control, although he dreams he has regained his humanity. He battles the evil corporate and military regimes that have taken over the United States, while simultaneously struggling not to lose his humanity. He battles Simon Ryker and the first War-Wolf, and encounters his wife and son for the first time after becoming a cyborg. He battles Simon Ryker's Super-Tank, and then begins a hunt for a \"cyborg doctor\". He battles Simon Ryker as the Savior Machine, and his mind is ultimately transferred into a Luther Manning clone. He battles mutants alongside a time-traveling Spider-Man. He begins working for the CIA, encounters Godwulf for the first time, and is then finally sent back in time to the modern era.\n\nHe battles the Devil-Slayer, but then battles demons alongside Devil-Slayer. He later becomes controlled by Mentallo and the Fixer and is sent to assassinate the President, but is stopped by the Thing and Nick Fury. After his capture he becomes catatonic, and is taken to England for treatment by the Thing. He is cured by Louis Knort, and Nick Fury takes him into custody.\n\nDeathlok is rebuilt by Roxxon as a robot and sent to sabotage Project Pegasus. The robot battles the Thing and Quasar, and self-destructs. The real Deathlok, now working for the Brand Corporation, battles Captain America and a time-traveling Luther Manning clone. Alongside Captain America, Godwulf, and the Redeemers, he battles Hellinger.\n\nSome time later, the \"mainstream timeline\" Luther Manning begins dreaming that he is Deathlok. He is charged with temporal energy by Timestream. Timestream recruits this \"mainstream\" human Manning. Deathlok, Timestream, and Manning battled the Collins Deathlok, Siege, and Godwulf.\n\nThe Manning Deathlok eventually returns to his own time and overthrows the megalomaniac who had taken over the country. Manning remains in his near-future alternate reality, searching for a purpose in life and unable to disconnect himself from the machine bonded to him.\n\nEventually, Manning travels to the mainstream Marvel Universe and encounters Daredevil and the Kingpin. He lives a life of solitude until being apprehended by S.H.I.E.L.D., from which he is later kidnapped by the supervillain Owl and, immobilized, put up for auction as a weapon. Before a sale can be completed, he is stolen by the crime lord Hood and sent on a kamikaze decoy run.\n\nKelly first appeared as Deathlok in \"Marvel Comics Presents\" #62. This version of Deathlok was originally controlled by Kelly until its systems determined that Kelly's brain function was detrimental to its completion of the \"First Run\" program. The Deathlok unit then completed its mission. Kelly's brain was removed from the cyborg and disposed of. One of Ryker's assistants took the brain presumably for use in the SIEGE unit. This version was made for the United States Army by the CIA's Deathlok-program co-head, Harlan Ryker, after studying Luther Manning's cyborg body. The Kelly Deathlok later became known as Siege.\n\nProfessor Michael Collins was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was a pacifist working for the Roxxon Oil cybernetics corporation Cybertek. Upon discovery of the Deathlok program he was shot with a sedative by Harlan Ryker and his brain was transplanted into the body of the John Kelly Deathlok Cyborg. The machine was used against rebels fighting against Roxxon's influence in the fictional South American country of Estrella. Collins regained his consciousness during that mission and stopped the cyborg programming that would have killed a small child.\n\nAlthough his brain was intended to serve only as a medium for the robot's programming, he was able to assert his will over it (installing a \"no-killing parameter\" into its programming). The computer is fully willing to listen to Collins, though he must take care to present his orders in a way that helps fulfill the mission and keep people from dying. The computer is fully capable of understanding distinct concepts, such as bluffing, as when Collins is forced to pretend to take a hostage.\n\nHe met Jesus Badalamente and also battles Mainframe.\n\nCollins learns that his human body was still alive, and encounters Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. Harlan Ryker hides Collins's human body. Collins aids Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. in preventing a nuclear strike on the United States.\n\nWith the Fantastic Four, X-Men, and Misty Knight, Deathlok later battles Mechadoom. He meets the Punisher, and battles Silvermane. After that he teams up with Spider-Man and several other heroes to stop the Sinister Six. He next meets Moses Magnum. Collins finally reveals his existence as a cyborg to his family.\n\nCollins then begins to search for his human body. During this time he fought Sleepwalker, and helps Silver Sable retrieve a purloined Statue of Liberty. He assists a makeshift team of other heroes in the \"Maximum Carnage\" incident, protecting the people of New York from a mass-murdering group of supervillains.\n\nDuring the events of the series \"Beyond!\", the cosmic being Stranger (pretending to be the Beyonder) transported Collins to an alien planet where he was forced to live for years until being rescued with the aid of several other heroes. However, his rescue required the sacrifice of Greg Willis, the superhero known as Gravity. As an act of gratitude, Collins arranged Gravity's funeral. When Willis' body was later stolen by the cosmic entity known as Epoch, Collins enlisted the aid of the Fantastic Four in retrieving it.\n\nJack Truman was an agent of the international espionage outfit S.H.I.E.L.D. who was transformed into a cyborg to battle the Red Skull. Through telepathic means, he eventually swapped his mind into the body of another former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, Larry Young. Young is being considered as a \"potential recruit\" for the Initiative program.\n\nDuring the \"Dark Reign\" storyline, a H.A.M.M.E.R. strikeforce consisting of corpses animated with crude bionics was sent to capture a super-soldier research center known as \"The World\". These models acted like traditional zombies, craving brains. Their mission was unsuccessful, and as a result, the research group which produced them, \"Project: Deathlok\", was scrapped.\n\nWolverine's rogue ops team joins an alternate future Deathlok-Prime - now free from its homicidal human host's brain - to face down invaders from a different possible future where X-Force, and all other superheroes, have been turned into \"Deathloks\" controlled by worldly authorities with popular support, which produces a crime-free utopia for everyone else.\n\nDeathlok appeared later as a guest speaker for one of Jean Grey School for Higher Learning's classes. Deathlok revealed the potential futures of the students present and the probabilities of them occurring. Notably, Deathlok refused to comment on Genesis' future, revealing to him in private that only he can choose his fate.\n\nIn the \"Avengers Arena\" series as part of the \"Marvel NOW!\" event, a female teenage version of Deathlok dubbed Death Locket is introduced. She is revealed to be Rebecca Ryker, the daughter of Harlan Ryker. After being maimed in an explosion that killed her mother and brother, Rebecca was rebuilt using the Deathlok technology that her father developed. Arcade later kidnaps her alongside the students of the Avengers Academy and Braddock Academy and forces them to fight other teenage superhumans in his latest version of Murderworld.\n\nA new Deathlok debuted during the \"Original Sin\" storyline. Henry Hayes worked at Doctors Without Borders. During his duty, he lost a leg in a suicide bomber attack in Kandahar (or was brainwashed into thinking he did), Henry was taken care of by the company Biotek who provided him with a composite fiber prosthesis. Upon being placed under mind-control, Henry Hayes became Deathlok where he was used as an assassin, a soldier, a killer, a fighter, and an operative. He had participated in at least one armed conflict alongside organized troops, and assassinated countless people even in populated areas. He was even once close to being captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. when a mission went bad in Russia. Henry Hayes was often memory-wiped and did not remember his assignments. While at MTA Metro-North station, he tried to engage discussion with another leg amputee and advised him to contact Biotek, as his own prosthesis (plastic ones as it was the only his pension afforded him) forced the man to use crutches. This man left, seemingly displeased with the discussion. Immediately afterward, he met Seth Horne, an off duty S.H.I.E.L.D. agent who was present when the Eye of the Watcher exploded, releasing a blast of energy which revealed deep secrets to anyone in its radius. To Horne it revealed Hayes' true story. This level four agent wanted to congratulate him, stating that S.H.I.E.L.D. would wish to have him in their ranks. As Henry Hayes really did not know what Horne was talking about, he threatened to call the authorities forcing the agent to leave after a last congratulations. Immediately, Henry Hayes was ordered to kill him as the announcement board of the station indicated the words \"Whiskey David\" triggering Henry Hayes' Deathlok persona. After following Seth Horne into the restroom Deathlok quickly executed him, left, took some medications, and returned to his civilian life heading to the train to join his daughter Aria.\n\nIn the \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\" comic book, Jemma Simmons (based on the character from TV show of the same name) became the newest Deathlok, though she has yet to actually take the name. She becomes one after getting infected with an unknown substance contained within a \"targeted DNA bomb\" that begins to deteriorate her condition which also placed her in a coma. With the help of Henry Hayes and Bobbi Morse, she is transformed into a Deathlok which successfully saves her life.\n\nCol. Luther Manning's body was rebuilt into a cyborg body by Harlan Ryker. Deathlok's mechanical, cybernetic physiology granted him several superhuman powers including superhuman strength, stamina, agility, reflexes, and a computer augmented brain. The right arm and left half of his face are armored cybernetic implants. He wears a woven metal-mesh body suit of considerable durability. Deathlok also carried a helium-neon laser pistol designed by the U.S. Army of his time, and a throwing dagger.\n\nManning was a military academy graduate, and a brilliant military strategist. He is a formidable hand-to-hand combatant, and proficient with knives, daggers, handguns, and laser pistols.\n\nHe was later captured and upgraded by 616's S.H.I.E.L.D. and given jet boots that allowed him to leap at great heights and his other abilities were perhaps enhanced to greater levels.\n\nMichael Collins' human brain was transplanted into a cyborg body by a group of scientists at Cybertek. His cyborg body grants him the same powers as Manning, only with much greater strength, speed, and resistance to injury. He possesses a broad spectrum of visual and auditory powers. Deathlok has the ability to interface with virtually any computer system. He is also able to project his consciousness and sensory projections directly into the Net, making him capable of directly hacking computer systems far more efficiently than a traditional hacker. His body can also target (nearly infallibly) multiple objects and track them. He could scan the entire electromagnetic spectrum, as well as enter computer systems. He has learned to use internal nano-bots to repair and alter both his organic and inorganic parts, enabling him to appear as either a humanoid cyborg, or completely human.\n\nHe also has a very sophisticated A.I., capable of quickly making complex strategies and evaluating their chance of success. If requested, the A.I. can take control of the body to perform these operations. Collins himself possesses no combat skills, but under computer-guided combat routines, he is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant with an extensive database of combat techniques and strategies.\n\nCollins is an excellent computer programmer with an advanced degree in computer science and prosthetics, and helped construct the Deathlok body, along with other Cybertek scientists including William Hansen, Ben Jacobs, Stanley Cross, Dr. Hu, and Jim Dworman. After becoming Deathlok, Collins later modified his own systems.\n\nLike Manning, Collins wears a woven metal-mesh body suit of considerable durability. He carries a plasma pistol which draws its energy from his internal power source. Thus, the weapon can only be fired if in contact with the outlets in Deathlok's hand. Deathlok also possesses a collapsible plasma rifle capable of greater firepower with the same limitations, a supply of fragmentation plasma grenades, and a molybdenum steel knife. He wears a wrist bracelet that allows Deathlok to override similar cybernetic operating systems, and an adamantium/vibranium alloy shock dampening helmet. He sometimes uses a refitted Cybertek Dragonfly fighter with a range of several hundred miles.\n\nIn the \"Mutant X\" reality, Deathlok is a member of the Avengers.\n\nIn \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" #70 (Feb. 2005), the Ultimates fight a person they refer to as Luther Manning, who looks like Deathlok and whom Spider-Man describes as a \"half-robot half-zombie guy\". The superheroes take him into custody.\n\nIn \"X-Factor\" #231 (Apr. 2012), in a version of reality where Wanda Maximoff declared \"no more humans\" instead of \"no more mutants\", Tony Stark is attacked by a mostly-cyborg version of Steve Rogers, who refers to himself as Deathlok.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19317802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317802", "title": "Decision list", "text": "Decision list\n\nDecision lists are a representation for Boolean functions which can be easily learnable from examples. Single term decision lists are more expressive than disjunctions and conjunctions; however, 1-term decision lists are less expressive than the general disjunctive normal form and the conjunctive normal form.\n\nThe language specified by a k-length decision list includes as a subset the language specified by a k-depth decision tree.\n\nLearning decision lists can be used for attribute efficient learning.\n\nA decision list (DL) of length is of the form:\n\nwhere is the th formula and is the th boolean for formula_1. The last if-then-else is the default case, which means formula is always equal to true. A -DL is a decision list where all of formulas have at most terms. Sometimes \"decision list\" is used to refer to a 1-DL, where all of the formulas are either a variable or its negation.\n"}
{"id": "48059800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48059800", "title": "Diplopora", "text": "Diplopora\n\nDiplopora is a genus of marine dasycladacean algae in the family Diploporaceae.\n\nThis genus is known in the fossil records from the Silurian to the Jurassic (from about 426.2 to 155.7 million years ago). Fossils of species within this genus have been found in Europe, Iran, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Iraq and United States.\n\nSpecies within this genus include:\n"}
{"id": "7817373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7817373", "title": "Ephraim Alnaqua", "text": "Ephraim Alnaqua\n\nRabbi Ephraim ben Israel Alnaqua (1359-1442) () (also, \"Al-Nakawa\", \"Al-Nakava\", \"Ankava\", \"Ankoa\", \"Enkaoua\", \"Alnucawi\", etc., Hebrew: \"נקוה\", \"אלנאקוה\", \"אנקווה\", \"אנקאווא\") was a physician, rabbi, theological writer, and founder of the Jewish community at Tlemçen (Algeria), where he died in 1442.\n\nAccording to a legend, Alnaqua escaped from the Spanish Inquisition, which had martyred his father (rabbi Israel Ben Joseph) and mother at the stake, and came to Tlemcen mounted on a lion, using a serpent as a halter. Azulai refers to him as a miracle-worker. Alnaqua succeeded, after all other physicians had failed, in curing the only daughter of a king of the Zayyanid dynasty. Refusing the reward of gold and silver offered him by the king, he begged only that the Jews living near Tlemçen might be united in it. In this way the community was formed. Alnaqua's first care was to establish a large synagogue: this is , and bears his name. Above the rabbi's chair, on which the verse Jer. xvii.12 is engraved, a lamp burns perpetually. Alnaqua's grave, surrounded by those of his family, is in the old cemetery: it is sacred to North African Jews, and by pilgrims from all Algeria.\n\nAlnaqua had two sons, Israel and Judah. The latter lived at Oran, Mostaganem, and, later, at Tlemçen, and became the father-in-law of Simeon ben Zemah Duran. Alnaqua wrote for his elder son Israel \"Shaar Kevod Adonai\" (Entrance to the Glory of God), containing answers to the criticisms of Nahmanides on the \"Moreh\" of Maimonides. Manuscripts of this work exist in the Bodleian Library, Oxford. He wrote, also, some hymns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19163660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19163660", "title": "Evolve (TV series)", "text": "Evolve (TV series)\n\nEvolve is a 2008 documentary television series on History. The series premiere, \"Eyes\", was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Science, Technology and Nature Programming.\n\nEach episode attempts to explain the evolutionary origins of a particular trait of living creatures: for example, Tyrannosaurus Rex's 13-inch teeth, the gecko's \"Velcro-like\" toe pads, and the bald eagle's \"telescopic\" vision capable of spotting a hare a mile away.\n\nTo date, there are 11 episodes, which are available to buy in a compilation box set. The box incorrectly lists 13 episodes but does list the correct 11 episode running time total. Topics are of the episode as named.\n\nThe dates of the episodes vary from the different sources available on the internet. The following dates have been compiled from different TV listing websites. Only the airdate of the initial episode is consistent among 4 sources:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3080857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3080857", "title": "Ferret Monogatari: Watashi no Okini Iri", "text": "Ferret Monogatari: Watashi no Okini Iri\n\nFerret Monogatari: Watashi no Okini Iri (\"Ferret Story: My Dear Ferret\") is a Japan-only video game for Game Boy Color created by Culture Brain. Ferret Monogatari is a simulation style game in which you take care of a ferret.\n\nAt the start you choose one of three different coloured ferrets. The colours are randomly chosen. \n\nThe ferret is kept in the cage much of the time. You have to keep its water and food topped up, and clean its litter box. You can take your ferret out for walks or to play with. You can even play minigames. One is a race, one is putting together a picture and the other is dancing.\n\nDespite the popularity of ferrets in other countries, especially America, this game was never released outside Japan. This may have been due to lack of popularity in Japan.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3215568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3215568", "title": "Follicular phase", "text": "Follicular phase\n\nThe follicular phase is the phase of the estrous cycle, (or, in humans and great apes, the menstrual cycle) during which follicles in the ovary mature. It ends with ovulation. The main hormone controlling this stage is estradiol. There are several steps in the process of follicular development that occur in the follicular phase: Initiation, Recruitment and progression, Pre-ovulatory maturation and Ovulation. These processes occur in different areas of the body and will be briefly explained below.\n\nFollicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland (Figure 2). FSH secretion begins to rise in the last few days of the previous menstrual cycle, and is highest and most important during the first week of the follicular phase (Figure 1). The rise in FSH levels recruits five to seven tertiary-stage ovarian follicles (this stage follicle is also known as a \"Graafian follicle\" or \"antral follicle\") for entry into the menstrual cycle. These follicles, that have been growing for the better part of a year in a process known as folliculogenesis, compete with each other for dominance.\n\nFSH induces the proliferation of granulosa cells in the developing follicles, and the expression of luteinizing hormone (LH) receptors on these granulosa cells (Figure 1). Under the influence of FSH, aromatase and p450 enzymes are activated, causing the granulosa cells to begin to secrete estrogen. This increased level of estrogen stimulates production of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), which increases production of LH. LH induces androgen synthesis by thecal cells, stimulates proliferation, differentiation, and secretion of follicular thecal cells and increases LH receptor expression on granulosa cells.\n\nThroughout the entire follicular phase, rising estrogen levels in the blood stimulates growth of the endometrium and myometrium of the uterus. It also causes endometrial cells to produce receptors for progesterone, which helps prime the endometrium to respond to rising levels of progesterone during the late proliferative phase and throughout the luteal phase.\n\nTwo or three days before LH levels begin to increase, usually by day seven of the cycle, one (or occasionally two) of the recruited follicles has emerged as dominant. Many endocrinologists believe that the estrogen secretion of the dominant follicle has increased to a level that GnRH production is suppressed, which lowers the levels of LH and FSH. This slowdown in LH and FSH production leads to the \"atresia\" (death) of most of the recruited follicles, though the dominant follicle continues to mature. Estrogen levels will continue to increase for several days (on average, six days, but this varies widely).\n\nThese high estrogen levels initiate the formation of a new layer of endometrium in the uterus, histologically identified as the proliferative endometrium. Crypts in the cervix are also stimulated to produce fertile cervical mucus. This mucus reduces the acidity of the vagina, creating a more hospitable environment for sperm. It also has a characteristic texture that helps guide sperm through the cervix and to the fallopian tubes, where they wait for ovulation. In addition, basal body temperature may lower slightly under the influence of high estrogen levels.\n\nEstrogen levels are highest right before the LH surge begins (Figure 1). The short-term drop in steroid hormones between the beginning of the LH surge and the event of ovulation may cause mid-cycle spotting or bleeding. Under the influence of the preovulatory LH surge, the first meiotic division of the oocytes is completed. The surge also initiates luteinization of thecal and granulosa cells. Ovulation normally occurs 30 (± 2) hours after the beginning of the LH surge (when LH is first detectable in urine).\n\nFollicular waves are best described as the phase of when the follicular had matured sufficiently, therefore, ruptures and ovulation can commence [1]. In addition, those of the single follicles that mature until they rupture to release the egg during ovulation. Recent findings into the menstrual cycle in mammals has discovered that 2 or more follicles can develop but only one of the follicles fully matures to release the egg. This follicular wave involves multiple surges in the levels of FSH to initiate follicular development. A study has found that 68% of women tended to display two follicular wave developments before ovulation while the remaining women had three waves.\n"}
{"id": "26066749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26066749", "title": "Gabriel Brown", "text": "Gabriel Brown\n\nGabriel Brown (1910–1972) was an American Piedmont blues singer and guitarist.\n\nBrown was born in Florida, probably in Gadsden County, and graduated from the Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College. In 1934, he performed at the first National Folk Festival in St. Louis, Missouri. He was musically discovered by folklorist Zora Neale Hurston. She enlisted Alan Lomax, who recorded Brown for the Library of Congress in June 1935.\n\nLike Ralph Willis, Alec Seward and Brownie McGhee, Brown then relocated from the South to New York City. Hurston gave Brown a part in her light opera \"Polk County\". In 1935 Brown started a four-year tenure with the Federal Arts Theatre, initially under the direction of Orson Welles. By the late 1930s, Brown performed as a singer on Cincinnati radio and took part in the show \"St. Louis Woman\". He found employment with the civil service, working for the Army Signal Corps in Asbury Park, New Jersey. His first full recording session was in 1943, produced by Joe Davis, and the twosome worked together until Brown's final sessions in 1952.\n\nIn 1945 Brown sang, \"I can't have no luck at all, the jinx is on me.\"\nSeveral of Brown's recordings were not released during his lifetime, and some of those that were issued were not promoted tastefully or accurately. In the late 1940s, various tracks were licensed to Coral Records. Eventually Davis worked in A&R for MGM Records, and Brown followed him to that label, where he was promoted as a pop singer. Compilation albums of his recordings have been released by various labels.\n\nBrown died by drowning after a boating accident in Florida in 1972.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1222568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222568", "title": "Helmholtz machine", "text": "Helmholtz machine\n\nThe Helmholtz machine is a type of artificial neural network that can account for the hidden structure of a set of data by being trained to create a generative model of the original set of data. The hope is that by learning economical representations of the data, the underlying structure of the generative model should reasonably approximate the hidden structure of the data set. A Helmholtz machine contains two networks, a bottom-up \"recognition\" network that takes the data as input and produces a distribution over hidden variables, and a top-down \"generative\" network that generates values of the hidden variables and the data itself.\n\nHelmholtz machines are usually trained using an unsupervised learning algorithm, such as the wake-sleep algorithm.\n\nHelmholtz machines may also be used in applications requiring a supervised learning algorithm (e.g. character recognition, or position-invariant recognition of an object within a field).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44655559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44655559", "title": "Hepatic artery embolization", "text": "Hepatic artery embolization\n\nHepatic artery embolization (HAE), also known as trans-arterial embolization (TAE), is one of the several therapeutic methods to treat primary liver tumors or metastases to the liver. The embolization therapy can reduce the size of the tumor, and decrease the tumor's impact such its hormone production, effectively decreasing symptoms. The treatment was initially developed in the early 1970s. The several types of hepatic artery treatments are based on the observation that tumor cells get nearly all their nutrients from the hepatic artery, while the normal cells of the liver get about 70-80 percent of their nutrients and 50% their oxygen supply from the portal vein, and thus can survive with the hepatic artery effectively blocked. In practice, hepatic artery embolization occludes the blood flow to the tumors, achieving significant tumor shrinkage in over 80% of people. Shrinkage rates vary.\n\nThe several types of hepatic artery treatments are based on the observation that tumor cells get nearly all their nutrients from the hepatic artery, while the normal cells of the liver get about 70-80 percent of their nutrients and 50% their oxygen supply from the portal vein, and thus can survive with the hepatic artery effectively blocked. In practice, hepatic artery embolization is an option if the neoplastic growth is mainly within the liver. By occluding the blood supply to the tumors, achieving significant tumor shrinkage in over 80% of people. Shrinkage rates vary. The therapy can effectively decrease symptoms by reducing the size of the tumor, or by decreasing the tumor's impact, for example by decreasing the tumor's production of hormones.\n\nPrimary liver tumors, metastatic neuroendocrine tumors to the liver and other metastases to the liver may be considered for therapy directed via the hepatic artery.\n\nThe percutaneous Seldinger technique introduces a catheter, which is a thin flexible tube made of medical grade material, into the hepatic artery under radiological control. This approach was developed for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors in the early 1970s. Tumor cells get over 90% of their nutrients from the hepatic artery, while the normal cells of the liver get about 70-80 percent of their nutrients and 50% their oxygen supply from the portal vein, and thus can survive with the hepatic artery effectively blocked. Once the catheter is carefully placed in the artery or in a selected branch, the blood flow can be occluded by injecting various items, such as plastic particles, glue, metal coils, foam, or by deploying a balloon. Additional considerations and procedural details have been reviewed.\n\nIn hepatic artery chemotherapy (HAC), chemotherapy agents are given into the hepatic artery, often by steady infusion over hours or even days. Compared with systemic chemotherapy, a higher proportion of the chemotherapy agents is (in theory) delivered to the lesions in the liver.\n\nHepatic artery chemoembolization (HACE), sometimes called transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), combines hepatic artery embolization with hepatic artery chemo infusion. In one method, embospheres bound with chemotherapy agents injected into the hepatic artery, lodge in downstream capillaries. The spheres not only block blood flow to the lesions but by halting the chemotherapy agents in the neighborhood of the lesions, they provide a much better targeting leverage than chemo infusion provides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43589934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43589934", "title": "Hydrogenotroph", "text": "Hydrogenotroph\n\nHydrogenotrophs are organisms that are able to metabolize molecular hydrogen as a source of energy. An example of hydrogenotrophy is performed by carbon dioxide-reducing organisms which utilize CO and H to produce methane (CH) by the following reaction:\n\nOther hydrogenotrophic metabolic pathways include acetogenesis, sulfate reduction, and other hydrogen oxidizing bacteria.\n"}
{"id": "1737836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737836", "title": "Hydrops fetalis", "text": "Hydrops fetalis\n\nHydrops fetalis is a condition in the fetus characterized by an accumulation of fluid, or edema, in at least two fetal compartments. By comparison, hydrops allantois or hydrops amnion is an accumulation of excessive fluid in the allantoic or amniotic space, respectively.\n\nLocations can include:\n\n\nThe edema is usually seen in the fetal subcutaneous tissue, sometimes leading to spontaneous abortion. It is a prenatal form of heart failure, in which the heart is unable to satisfy demand (in most cases abnormally high) for blood flow.\n\nHydrops fetalis usually stems from fetal anemia, when the heart needs to pump a much greater volume of blood to deliver the same amount of oxygen. This anemia can have either an immune or non-immune cause. Non-immune hydrops can also be unrelated to anemia, for example if a fetal tumor or congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation increases the demand for blood flow. The increased demand for cardiac output leads to heart failure, and corresponding edema.\n\n\nThe non-immune form of hydrops fetalis has many causes including: \n\nHydrops fetalis can be diagnosed and monitored by ultrasound scans. Prenatal ultrasound scanning enables early recognition of hydrops fetalis and has been enhanced with the introduction of MCA Doppler.\n\nThe treatment depends on the cause.\n\nSeverely anemic fetuses, including those with Rh disease and alpha thalassemia major, can be treated with blood transfusions while still in the womb. This treatment increases the chance that the fetus will survive until birth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39383953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39383953", "title": "In the Heart of the Sea (film)", "text": "In the Heart of the Sea (film)\n\nIn the Heart of the Sea is a 2015 adventure-drama film directed and produced by Ron Howard and written by Charles Leavitt. It is based on Nathaniel Philbrick's non-fiction book of the same name, about the sinking of the American whaling ship \"Essex\" in 1820, an event that inspired the novel \"Moby-Dick\". An international co-production between the United States and Spain, the film stars Chris Hemsworth, Benjamin Walker, Cillian Murphy, Tom Holland, Ben Whishaw, and Brendan Gleeson.\n\nThe film premiered in New York City on December 7, 2015, and was released in cinemas in the United States on December 11, 2015, by Warner Bros. Pictures. \"In the Heart of the Sea\" received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $93 million against a $100 million budget.\n\nIn 1850, author Herman Melville visits innkeeper Thomas Nickerson, the last survivor of the sinking of the whaleship \"Essex\", offering money in return for his story. Nickerson initially refuses, but then finally agrees when his wife intervenes.\n\nThe story turns to 1820: a whaling company in Nantucket has refitted the \"Essex\" to participate in the lucrative whale oil trade, and 14-year-old Nickerson signs on as a cabin boy. The owners hire veteran whaler Owen Chase as first mate, though he is disappointed not to receive a captain's commission. The captain is George Pollard, an inexperienced mariner from an established whaling family who envies Chase's skill and popularity. Chase and Pollard clash, leading Pollard to sail into a storm against Chase's advice. The two agree to put their differences aside, rather than risking their reputations by returning to port without profit, and soon, the crew kills their first bull sperm whale.\n\nThree months pass with no further successes, and Pollard realizes that the Atlantic Ocean holds no sighting of whales. The \"Essex\" sails past Cape Horn to the Pacific, hoping for better luck in catching one. In Atacames, Ecuador, the officers meet a Spanish captain who tells them his crew found the bountiful \"Offshore Grounds\" 2,000 miles to the west, but claims that a vengeful \"white whale\" destroyed his ship, killing six of his men. Denying the story as a myth, Pollard and Chase lead the expedition west. They find the undisturbed grounds, but when they launch the whaling boats, the white whale, a massive albino bull sperm whale attacks, damaging the boats and turning on the ship.\n\nChase harpoons it from the \"Essex\"s deck, but the whale staves the ship in half, killing two men. The crew abandons the sinking \"Essex\" in the three intact whaling boats, and must sail hundreds of miles to shore with very limited supplies. The whale follows and attacks again, but they escape to the tiny Henderson Island. While gathering food, Chase discovers the corpses of earlier castaways, and concludes that the crew will soon die on the island before another ship passes by. Four men decide to stay, while the rest set sail again on the boats with hopes to find land. Soon after, one of the men dies, and the remaining crew reluctantly decide to cannibalize him.\n\nThe older Nickerson is overcome by emotion and stops his story; however, when his wife comforts him, he feels encouraged enough to finish. Back in the 1820s, the three boats separate and one is lost. The other two further resort to cannibalism to survive, with Pollard's cousin Henry Coffin sacrificing himself.\n\nThe whale returns, and Chase gets into position for a final attack. The whale breaches for a moment, allowing Chase to observe a portion of his previously thrown harpoon still embedded in the whale's skull. Chase hesitates, and stares into the whale's left eye. He decides not to attack. Following this encounter, the whale swims away peacefully, and is never seen again.\n\nA passing ship rescues Pollard's boat, but Chase's boat continues to drift with no food or water. Finally, with the survivors on the verge of death, they reach land. The survivors return to Nantucket and finally reunite with their distraught families. The ship's owners ask Pollard and Chase to cover up the story to protect the industry, but after Chase refuses to go along, Pollard reveals the truth in the inquiry.\n\nNickerson relates that a ship was sent to Henderson Island to rescue the surviving men there, Chase continued sailing the seas and became a merchant captain, and Pollard led another expedition to kill the whale, but the ship wrecked and he was forced to retire. Melville departs, to compose his novel, \"Moby-Dick,\" beginning by writing its first line: \"Call me Ishmael\".\n\nChris Hemsworth was cast to play the lead, Owen Chase, in June 2012. Tom Holland won the role of young Nickerson in April 2013. Cillian Murphy signed on as Matthew Joy in June. Before Benjamin Walker was set to play the Captain, other actors that were considered included Benedict Cumberbatch, Tom Hiddleston, and Henry Cavill. The film was in development back in 2000, with Barry Levinson set to direct for Miramax Films.\n\nPrincipal photography began in September 2013 in London and at Leavesden Studios in Hertfordshire, England. It was also shot on location on the island of La Gomera (plus some scenes on Lanzarote) in the Canary Islands, Spain. For the storm scenes, the production team built a water tank at Leavesden Studios, where a deck was built on top of a gimbal to mimic the pitch of a storm. To get the right effect, 500 gallons of icy water were poured from cannons.\n\nDuring one point of filming, the cast and crew were forced to retreat to their hotel by a storm off the Canary Islands, which turned into a rare flash flood. The production shut down for a day and a half, expanding the shoot to 73 days, exactly as filmmakers expected.\n\nIn an interview with Jimmy Kimmel, Hemsworth stated that to prepare for the role of starving sailors, the cast were on a diet of 500–600 calories a day to lose weight. Hemsworth also had to drop his weight from 215 to 175 pounds to play Owen, saying that \"In the Heart of the Sea\" is \"physically and emotionally the hardest movie that I've been a part of... Losing the weight to this length, I just never want to do it again, but it had such an emotional effect on us... in some small way, we felt like we were doing what these men went through justice.\"\n\nRoque Baños composed the film score.\n\nThe film was originally scheduled to be released in the United States and Canada on March 13, 2015, but was later pushed back to December 11 in order to convert the film into 3D as well as to give it higher chances of being a awards season contender. Internationally, Warner Bros. decided to open the film early overseas—a week before its United States December 11 opening—to avoid competition with \"\", which began its theatrical overseas from December 16. The film was released in the Dolby Vision format in Dolby Cinema in North America.\n\n\"In the Heart of the Sea\" was released on DVD, Blu-ray & Blu-ray 3D on March 8, 2016. It was released on 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray on May 17, 2016.\n\n\"In the Heart of the Sea\" was one of two flops released by Warner Bros in 2015, the other being \"Pan\". It grossed $25 million in North America and $68.9 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $93.9 million, against a production budget of $100 million.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, the film opened on December 11, 2015, in 3,103 theaters, including a number of 3D and IMAX theaters. Box Office Mojo projected an opening weekend gross of $18 million, noting that the film's only competition was with the holdover of \"\" (in its fourth weekend of play). The film earned $3.8 million on its opening day, including $575,000 from its early Thursday night showings. In its opening weekend, it earned $11.1 million, finishing below expectations and narrowly losing to \"Mockingjay – Part 2\", which earned $11.4 million. Many box office analysts said the low opening was because audiences' enthusiasm was focused on the arrival of \"\" the following week. Regarding the film's disappointing opening, Jeff Goldstein, Warner Bros. distribution executive vice president said, \"We stand behind Ron and his vision for the story, we believe in him. He's a terrific filmmaker. But some movies work and unfortunately some movies don't.\" In its third weekend the film was pulled from 72.3% of theaters (3,103 to 685), the 4th biggest drop in history at the time.\n\n\"In the Heart of the Sea\" was released internationally a week prior to its United States opening in 38 markets and grossed a total of $18.5 million with 3.3 million admissions on over 9,500 screens. 50% of the plays were in 3D with 156 IMAX theaters which accounted for 7% of the total opening. It went No. 1 in Russia and the CIS ($2 million), Italy ($1.7 million) and several other Asian markets such as Thailand and Taiwan and No. 2 in South Korea with $2.6 million, behind local hit \"Inside Men\", Mexico with $1.9 million, behind \"The Good Dinosaur\" and Brazil with $1.3 million, behind \"The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 2\".\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 42% based on 214 reviews, with an average rating of 5.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"The admirably old-fashioned \"In the Heart of the Sea\" boasts thoughtful storytelling to match its visual panache, even if it can't claim the depth or epic sweep to which it so clearly aspires.\" Another review aggregator, Metacritic gives it an average score of 47 out of 100, based on 47 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". CinemaScore reports that mainstream audiences gave the film an average grade of \"B+\", on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25154763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25154763", "title": "James Abbott (footballer)", "text": "James Abbott (footballer)\n\nJames Abbott (born 1892, date of death unknown) was a footballer who played in the Football League for Manchester City. He was born in Patricroft, England.\n\nHe played in three top flight games for Manchester City, prior to the outbreak of World War One, scoring two goals in three games, including a goal on his debut at Sheffield United in September 1913. He had moved to the Hyde Road club after non-League spells with Barton Albion and Eccles Borough.\n"}
{"id": "2611830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611830", "title": "Jan Joosten van Lodensteijn", "text": "Jan Joosten van Lodensteijn\n\nJan Joosten van Lodensteyn (or Lodensteijn) (1556–1623) was a native of Delft and one of the first Dutchmen in Japan, and the second mate on the Dutch ship \"De Liefde\", which was stranded in Japan in 1600. Some of his shipmates were Jacob Quaeckernaeck, Melchior van Santvoort, and William Adams.\n\nAlthough not allowed to return to the Netherlands, Joosten was allowed to take a Japanese wife and was given a permit to engage in foreign trade. He was privileged to wear the two swords of the samurai and received an annual stipend which placed him (along with Adams) among the ranks of the \"hatamoto\" or direct retainers of the \"shōgun\". Joosten was said to be a drunk with a choleric temperament, and at one point was not welcome at Ieyasu's court.\n\n\"De Liefde\" (\"the Love\", sometimes translated as \"the Charity\") departed Rotterdam in 1598, on a trading voyage that was a five ship expedition to the East Indies. After making it through the Straits of Magellan, they became separated, but later rejoined the \"Hoop\" (\"Hope\") off the coast of Chile, where some of the crew and captains of both vessels lost their lives in an encounter with natives. They decide to leave hostile Spanish waters and sell their woolen cloth cargo in Japan rather than in the warmer Moluccas. The two ships encountered a storm and \"Hoop\" was lost. With a decimated and sick crew (only 24 were still alive, and several were dying) the damaged \"De Liefde\" made landfall off Bungo (present-day Usuki) on the coast of Kyūshū in April 1600. Portuguese Jesuit missionary priests claimed that the ship was a pirate vessel and that the crew should be executed. The ship was seized on orders of Tokugawa Ieyasu, the \"daimyō\" of Edo (modern Tokyo) and the future \"shōgun,\" and later the crew was ordered to sail her to Sakai (near Osaka) and then on to Edo. Some of them were received by Ieyasu, who questioned them at length on European politics, wars and foreign affairs. The crew eventually went separate ways when some decided they should split the money provided as compensation for their losses of the ship and cargo. The nineteen bronze cannons were unloaded from the ship and, according to Spanish accounts, later used at the decisive Battle of Sekigahara on October 21, 1600 (between Tokogawa forces and their rivals).\n\nJoosten is reported to have made a fortune in trade between Japan and Southeast Asia, chartering several Red Seal Ships under license from Tokugawa Ieyasu. He was reported by Dutch traders in Ayutthaya to be aboard junks carrying rich cargoes in early 1613. After the establishment of the Dutch Factory in Hirado, he became a middleman between Dutch merchants and the shogunate.\n\nHe is also said to have been to Siam on one of his ships, with the Japanese adventurer and author Tenjiku Tokubei. Later, he attempted to return to the Netherlands, but after reaching Batavia, he was denied permission by Dutch authorities to proceed further. He drowned in the South China Sea in 1623 when his ship sank as he was returning to Japan.\n\nFor his services, Jan Joosten was granted a house in Edo (now Tokyo) in an area that came to be called \"Yayosu Quay\" (Yaesu) after him — his name was pronounced \"yan yōsuten\" in Japanese (short version: \"Yayōsu\" (耶楊子)) — the Yaesu side of Tokyo Station is also named for him. Yaesu-dōri (Yaesu Avenue) has a monument dedicated to Jan Joosten and his life after his arrival in Japan on \"De Liefde\" with his shipmate William Adams.\n\nIn 1999 his home town of Delft named Jan Joostenplein (Jan Joosten Square) after him (it is off Van Lodensteynstraat, which is named for a relative). There is a sculpture of \"De Liefde\" in the courtyard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3354525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354525", "title": "Joe Spinell", "text": "Joe Spinell\n\nJoe Spinell (born Joseph J. Spagnuolo; October 28, 1936 – January 13, 1989) was an American character actor who appeared in numerous films in the 1970s and 1980s, as well as various stage productions on and off Broadway.\n\nHis notable roles included performances in \"The Godfather\" (1972) and \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), \"Rocky\" (1976) and \"Rocky II\" (1979), \"Taxi Driver\" (1976), \"Sorcerer\" (1977), \"Cruising\" (1980), and many more. He was a recurring actor in early Sylvester Stallone films. Most his career consists of him playing bit to major supporting roles, many of them villainous, in major and small American films.\n\nSpinell became a figure in the Cult film genre, due to many appearances them, and his only three leading roles in horror films. Actress Caroline Munro, with whom he shared the screen three times, was his co lead in two of them. The first one was the psychological slasher film \"Maniac\" (1980), which he also wrote. The second one was \"The Last Horror Film\" a horror comedy film. The third was \"The Undertaker\" a slasher film released posthumously.\n\nSpinell was born Joseph J. Spagnuolo () in Manhattan, New York, of Italian immigrant parents, and the last of six children. His father, Pelegrino Spagnuolo (1892–1950), died from liver and kidney disease. His mother, Filomena Spagnuolo (1903–1987), was a bit-part actress who acted in a few movies, some of them alongside her son. Spinell stood 5 foot and 11 inches. He was born at his family's apartment on Second Avenue in Manhattan's Kips Bay, an area then home to 10,000 Italian Americans. A few years after the death of his father, he moved with his mother and older siblings to Woodside, Queens, New York where he lived off-and-on for the remainder of his life. He was known to abuse drugs and alcohol heavily on and off throughout his career, especially during periods of unemployment. Spinell also suffered most of his life from hemophilia as well as chronic asthma.\n\nBecause of his large, heavyset frame and imposing looks, Spinell was often cast as criminals, thugs, or corrupt police officers. As a teenager and young adult, Spinell starred in various stage plays, both on and off Broadway.\n\nIn 1972, he landed his first film role in a small part as the mafioso hitman Willie Cicci working for the Corleone crime family in the crime film \"The Godfather,\" directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It was the highest-grossing film of 1972 and was for a time the highest-grossing film ever made. It won the Oscars for Best Picture, Actor and Best Adapted Screenplay, as well as other nominations.\n\nIn 1973, he appeared in a small role as another mafioso thug in \"Cops and Robbers\", a crime comedy film directed by Aram Avakian starring Cliff Gorman, and Joseph Bologna.\n\nThat same year he appeared in another small role \"The Seven-Ups\", a crime drama thriller film produced and directed by Philip D'Antoni and starring Roy Scheider. Spinell appears as a parking garage manager, named Toredano, whom the Seven-Up vice squad detectives interview during their criminal investigation.\n\nIn 1974, Spinell reprised his role as Willie Cicci in \"The Godfather Part II\", where Cicci is still working for the Corleone crime family, but having been promoted from \"soldier\" (aka: 'button man') to being the personal bodyguard to Frank Pentangeli (Michael V. Gazzo). The film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards, and became the first sequel to win for Best Picture. It was Paramount Pictures' highest-grossing film of 1974 and was the fifth-highest-grossing picture in North America that year.\n\nIn 1975, he had a supporting role in as a Native American half-breed cowboy in \"Rancho Deluxe\", a contemporary western film that was directed by Frank Perry and released in 1975, starring Jeff Bridges and Sam Waterston where Spinell appeared in one scene as the father to Waterston's character.\n\nHis second supporting role that year was in \"Strike Force\", a television film directed by Barry Shear and starring Richard Gere.\n\nThe following film he was in was \"Farewell, My Lovely\", an American neo noir film, directed by Dick Richards and starring Robert Mitchum as private detective Phillip Marlowe. Set in Hollywood in the year 1941, the picture is based on Raymond Chandler's novel by the same name. Spinell appears in a minor role playing Nick, one of three chief henchmen who also include Cowboy (Burton Gilliam) and Jonnie (Sylvester Stallone); all of whom work for brothel madam Frances Amthor (Kate Murtaugh) whom they hound and harass Marlowe during his mystery case investigation.\n\nFinally he was in \"92 in the Shade\" written and directed by Thomas McGuane, based on his 1973 novel of the same name, where Spinell appeared in a minor role late in the film playing a Southern-accented tourist and coal miner and which starred Peter Fonda, Warren Oates, Elizabeth Ashley, Harry Dean Stanton and Margot Kidder.\n\nIn 1976, he had a small role as a New York policeman in \"Next Stop, Greenwich Village,\" a drama film, set in the early 1950s, written and directed by Paul Mazursky, featuring, among others, Lenny Baker, Shelley Winters, Ellen Greene, Lois Smith, and Christopher Walken.\n\nFollowing this release, he had another small role in Martin Scorsese' the Palme d'Or winner \"Taxi Driver\" starring Robert De Niro. The gritty film tells the story of a lonely veteran (De Niro) working as a taxi driver, who descends into insanity. Spinell appeared in only one scene at the beginning of the film as a personnel officer at a taxi depot who gives De Niro's character his job interview in a cold and moody setting.\n\nHis third role that year was in \"Stay Hungry\", a comedy-drama by director Bob Rafelson. The film stars Jeff Bridges, Sally Field, and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Set in Alabama, the story centers on Craig Blake (Bridges), who is a young Birmingham scion who gets involved in a shady real-estate deal by a slick local con artist named Jabo (Spinell). In order to close the deal, he needs to buy a gym building to complete a multi-parcel lot. When he visits the gym, however, Blake finds himself romantically interested in the receptionist (Field) and drawn to the carefree lifestyle of the Austrian body builder Joe Santo (Schwarzenegger) who is training there for the Mr. Universe competition.\n\nLater, Spinell played a supporting role in John G. Avildsen' \"Rocky.\" It was Sylvester Stallone's first lead in a studio picture which he also wrote. Other co-stars include Talia Shire, Burt Young, Burgess Meredith and Carl Weathers It tells the rags to riches American Dream story of Rocky Balboa (Stallone), an uneducated but kind-hearted working class Italian-American boxer working as a debt collector for Tony Gazzo (Spinell), a loan shark, in the slums of Philadelphia. In the meantime, the heavyweight champion of the world, Apollo Creed (Weathers) decides to give a local contender a chance to challenge him and settles for Rocky. As the drama unfolds, Gazzo eventually lets go of Rocky so that he can train for the fight. The film, made on a budget of just over $1 million, was a sleeper hit; it earned $225 million in global box office receipts, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1976, and went on to win three Oscars, including Best Picture. The film received many positive reviews and turned Stallone into a major star.\n\nIn 1977, he acted in the \"Sorcerer.\" A thriller film directed by William Friedkin and starring Roy Scheider, Bruno Cremer, Francisco Rabal, and Amidou. Spinell has a small role as Spider, an acquaintance of Scanlon (Scheider) who takes part in a truck-driving test but fails.\n\nHis first role of 1978 was in \"Nunzio\", a drama film directed by Paul Williams. The film stars David Proval, with Morgana King, and Tovah Feldshuh. The story centers around Nunzio Sabatino (Proval) is a grown man with the demeanor of a young child. He lives at home with his doting mother (King) and has a job as a bicycle delivery man for Angelo (Spinell), the neighborhood grocer, which Angelo provides as a favor for Nunzio's brother.\n\nHis second role that year was in \"Big Wednesday\", a coming of age film directed by John Milius. The picture stars Jan-Michael Vincent, William Katt, and Gary Busey as three best friends and California surfers facing life and the Vietnam War against the backdrop of their love of surfing. Spinell appeared in a small role as a US Army psychologist who interviews Leroy \"The Masochist\" Smith (Busey) who pretends to be mentally insane to avoid being drafted.\n\nNext he played a nightclub owner and wrestling MC known only by his stage name 'Burp' in Sylvester Stallone' directorial debut \"Paradise Alley\", which Stallone wrote and starred in. The sports film tells the story of three brothers in Hell's Kitchen, New York City in the 1940s who become involved in professional wrestling.\n\nHis third role that year was in \"The One Man Jury\", a crime film starring Jack Palance.\n\nHis final role that year was a major part as the main antagonist in \"Starcrash\", an Italian-produced space opera film directed by Luigi Cozzi. The cast includes Caroline Munro, Marjoe Gortner, Christopher Plummer, and David Hasselhoff. The film is set in a distant galaxy, where a star ship searches for the evil Count Zarth Arn (Spinell). Closing in on a planet, the ship is attacked by a mysterious weapon. Three escape pods launch during the attack, but the ship crashes into the planet and is destroyed. Shortly after, smugglers Stella Star (Munro) and Akton (Gortner), find the sole survivor of the crash, from which their adventures against Count Zarth Arn start.\n\nHe started 1979 with a small role in \"Last Embrace\", a thriller film directed by Jonathan Demme. It stars Roy Scheider, Janet Margolin and Christopher Walken.\n\nSpinell's next role was a small part in \"Winter Kills\" a black comedy film directed by William Richert, based on the novel by satirist Richard Condon. Its all-star cast includes Jeff Bridges, John Huston, Anthony Perkins, Eli Wallach, Richard Boone, Toshirō Mifune, Sterling Hayden, Dorothy Malone, Belinda Bauer, Ralph Meeker, Elizabeth Taylor, Berry Berenson and Susan Walden. Spinell appeared in the opening scene as a dying man with bandages covering his face who confesses to the assassination of a fictitious US President.\n\nSpinell reprised his role as Gazzo in \"Rocky II\" this time directed by Sylvester Stallone. \"Rocky II\" finished in the top three highest-grossing films of 1979, in both the North American market and worldwide. The film grossed $6,390,537 during its opening weekend, $85,182,160 at the U.S. box office, and $200,182,160 overall.\n\nHis final release of the decade was in Curtis Hanson' \"The Little Dragons\", a martial arts family comedy film. It stars Charles Lane, Ann Sothern, Chris Petersen, Pat Petersen, Sally Boyden, and John Davis Chandler. The film is about two young brothers (Chris, and Pat Petersen) who use their karate skills to rescue a friend (Boyden) after she is held captive for ransom by the Forbinger family, the tough-talking backwoods mother (Sothern) and her two bumbling sons (Spinell and Chandler).\n\nHis first supporting role in films of the 1980s was \"Cruising\" a crime film and thriller written and directed by William Friedkin and starring Al Pacino, Paul Sorvino, and Karen Allen. The film is about a serial killer targeting gay men into S&M activities. Officer Steve Burns (Pacino), who resembles the victims' dark-haired, slim figure image, is sent deep undercover by Captain Edelson (Sorvino) in the urban world of leather bars. Edelson eventually meets Patrolman DiSimone (Spinell), a corrupt NYPD officer, who harasses and abuses gay men from these communities.\n\nHe followed up with a minor role as one of several US military personal imprisoned in an asylum in \"The Ninth Configuration\", a psychological drama film directed by William Peter Blatty.\n\nHis next effort was a small role as a sailor-suited slob in \"Forbidden Zone\", a musical fantasy comedy film directed and produced by Richard Elfman. The cast includes Hervé Villechaize, Susan Tyrrell, Warhol Superstar Viva, and The Kipper Kids.\n\nAlthough primarily known as a character actor, Spinell co-wrote, co-produced and starred in his first lead role as a serial killer in the 1980 film, \"Maniac\". The psychological slasher film directed by William Lustig and co-starring Caroline Munro. It's about Frank Zito (Spinell), a serial killer residing in New York City who murders and scalps young women.\n\nAfterward he returned to acting in supporting roles starting with the television film \"Nightside\", a 1980 television pilot starring Doug McClure.\n\nSpinell's next film was \"Brubaker\" a prison drama film directed by Stuart Rosenberg. It stars Robert Redford. The film features a large supporting cast including Yaphet Kotto, Jane Alexander, Murray Hamilton, David Keith, Tim McIntire, Matt Clark, M. Emmet Walsh, Everett McGill, and Morgan Freeman. Based on a true story set in Arkansas in the late 1960s, Redford stars as newly arrived prison warden Henry Brubaker, who attempts to clean up a corrupt and violent penal system. He first infiltrates the prison as an inmate and discovers rampant abuse and corruption, including open and endemic sexual assault, torture, worm-ridden diseased food, insurance fraud and a doctor charging inmates for medical care. Spinell appeared in a supporting role as Floyd Birdwell, one of the prison guard trustees alongside Kotto, McGill and others as the warden Brubaker's personal staff in which he and the others are reluctant to Brubaker's approach to running the prison.\n\nAfter, he had an uncredited cameo as a go-go club owner in Jonathan Demme's \"Melvin and Howard\".\n\nHis final role of 1980 was Brian G. Hutton' \"The First Deadly Sin\", a crime mystery thriller film produced by and starring Frank Sinatra which Spinell appears in a minor role as a doorman/bouncer at a New York apartment building that Sinatra's character interviews while looking for a serial killer who resides in the building. The film also features Faye Dunaway, David Dukes, Brenda Vaccaro, James Whitmore, and Martin Gabel.\n\nIn 1981, Spinell had a supporting role in the Sylvester Stallone' vehicle \"Nighthawks\". The crime-thriller film also co-stars Rutger Hauer, Billy Dee Williams, Lindsay Wagner, Persis Khambatta and Nigel Davenport. The story is about Sgt. DaSilva (Stallone) and Sgt. Fox (Williams) who serve as high-risk warrant officers in the Bronx. After a terrorist named Wulfgar (Hauer) arrives in New York City, DaSilva and Fox's direct supervisor Lt. Munafo (Spinell) transfers them to an anti-terrorist squad.\n\nIn 1982, he started with a small role in \"National Lampoon's Movie Madness\" is an American comedy film produced by \"National Lampoon\".\n\nHis next film was \"Night Shift\" a comedy film, directed by Ron Howard and starring Henry Winkler and Michael Keaton. Spinell appeared in a small role late in the film playing a nightclub/brothel owner.\n\nIn his third film of 1982, he appeared in the lead role in David Winters' \"The Last Horror Film\", co-starring Caroline Munro. Filmed guerrilla-style without permits during the 1981 Cannes Film Festival, the movie is about Vinny (Spinell) a New York City taxi driver who is obsessed with the international actress Jana Bates (Munro), known as the \"queen of horror films\". He goes to attend the Cannes Film Festival in France hoping to meet her and get her to star in his movie to kickstart his career as a film director. Upon his arrival strange things start happening around Jana Bates, until it leads to a mysterious string of murders. It went on to win numerous awards, including the Paris Film Festival Award, the Los Angeles Golden Scroll Award, and the Sitges Film Festival Award.\n\nNext, he had a small role in \"Monsignor\" directed by Frank Perry in the early scenes playing the father of a bride at a wedding reception. The cast includes Christopher Reeve, Geneviève Bujold, Fernando Rey, Jason Miller, Joseph Cortese, Adolfo Celi, and Leonardo Cimino.\n\nHis final film that year was \"One Down, Two to Go\" written, directed, and starring Fred Williamson. It also stars Jim Brown, Richard Roundtree and Jim Kelly.\n\nHis first supporting role of 1983 was a small role playing a corrupt lawyer in \"Vigilante.\" The vigilante film was directed by William Lustig. It stars Robert Forster and Fred Williamson.\n\nSpinell played a small part as a U.S. Border Customs Officer in Curtis Hanson' \"Losin' It\" a comedy film directed by Curtis Hanson and starring Tom Cruise, Shelley Long, Jackie Earle Haley, and John Stockwell.\n\nThen came \"Eureka\", a drama film directed by Nicolas Roeg. It stars Gene Hackman, Theresa Russell, Rutger Hauer, Joe Pesci and Mickey Rourke. Spinell had a non-speaking small role as one of several thugs who murder Hackman's character in the middle of the film.\n\nFinally that year, he acted in \"The Last Fight\" directed by Fred Williamson playing a corrupt boxing promotor.\n\nIn 1985, he co-starred as the main villain in the crime film \"Walking the Edge\", starring Robert Forster, Nancy Kwan and A Martinez. Set in Los Angeles, a criminal gang led by Brusstar (Spinell) enters a home with the intention of killing a former drug dealer. His wife Christine (Kwan), survives the hit that kills her husband and young son. She decides to take revenge on the gang and enlists a hapless taxi driver (Forster) to help her.\n\nHis first film role of 1986 was a small part appearing in one scene as a Mafia boss in \"The Whoopee Boys\", a comedy film starring Michael O'Keefe and Paul Rodriguez.\n\nHis second film that year was \"Hollywood Harry\", a comedy/mystery film set in Los Angeles starring and directed by Robert Forster where Spinell had a supporting role playing Max Caldwell, the business partner and friend to private detective Harry Petry (Forster) in helping him solve cases.\n\nHis third project that year was \"\", a horror short promotional film directed by Buddy Giovinazzo and co-written by Spinell and Joe Cirillo which was loosely based on a 1973 feature film titled \"An Eye for an Eye\" (aka: \"The Psychopath\"). The short film was produced by Joe Spinell in order to raise financing for a sequel to Spinell's 1980 horror film \"Maniac\". The short was included with the 30th anniversary edition release of \"Maniac\". The feature-length version of the film was never shot after Spinell's death in 1989.\n\nHis fourth picture was \"The Messenger\", directed and starring Fred Williamson.\n\nHe started 1987 with another small role in \"The Pick-up Artist\", an American romantic comedy film written and directed by James Toback, starring Molly Ringwald and Robert Downey Jr..\n\nHis second film appearance was a cameo in \"Deadly Illusion\", an action/crime thriller film. It stars Billy Dee Williams, Vanity and Morgan Fairchild.\n\nIn 1988, Spinell appeared in a small but significant role in the first of two David A. Prior directed films for AIP (Action International Pictures) Studios which was \"Operation Warzone\", an American Vietnam War film. He plays Brig. Gen. George Delevane, a corrupt military official who is involved in an arms-for-profit deal with a corrupt U.S. Army officer back in Vietnam. Meanwhile, three U.S. Army soldiers survive a Viet Cong ambush and rescue two undercover American agents, named Hawkins and Jensen, whom are seeking out Delevane.\n\nHis last lead role was in \"The Undertaker\", a slasher film. The film was completed in 1988, but was never released for the public and existed only in an incomplete form. \"The Undertaker\" was later re-edited for a DVD release by Code Red in 2010. The film is considered a cult classic, due in part to Joe Spinell's involvement and its long and troubled production.\n\nSpinell's very last role was a supporting part in playing a U.S. government official, named Hansen, in the low-budget 1989 action-thriller \"Rapid Fire\", his second (and last) film in working with director David A. Prior for AIP, which was filmed in Mobile, Alabama a few weeks before his death.\n\nSpinell died in his apartment located off of Greenpoint Avenue in Sunnyside, Queens, New York on January 13, 1989 at the age of 52. Sometime during that morning, he cut himself badly on his glass shower stall door after apparently slipping in his bathtub while showering. Soon afterward he fell asleep on his couch instead of calling for help, and his hemophilia caused him to bleed to death. His body was found by his friend Vincent Gabriele. Gabriele had phoned Spinell that evening after a woman who knew Vincent called and said Spinell did not sound well. Gabriele called, and Spinell asked him to stop over and bring some ice cream and other groceries. However, when he got there about 20 minutes after the call, Spinell did not answer the door. Gabriele then called the building superintendent who said he didn't have a key so Gabriele called 911. The ambulance workers entered the apartment through the fire escape where they found Spinell dead sitting on his living room couch. Sitting on a white sheet draped over the couch, Spinell bled to death over part of the couch from an apparent deep cut on the back of his head.\n\nSpinell was buried in Calvary Cemetery, Queens near his home.\n\nSpinell was married to adult film star Jean Jennings (1957-2011) from February 1977 to July 1979. Together they had one daughter, but they eventually divorced (this was referenced for Spinell's role in the 1980 film \"Cruising\", where his brutal, closeted NYPD patrolman talks about how his wife had abandoned him by taking their child and leaving for Florida, which is very similar to what happened to Spinell right before he began filming this role).\n\nHe was a distant cousin of New York Giants assistant defensive coach Steve Spagnuolo.\n\nA close friend of Sylvester Stallone, Spinell was the godfather of his late son Sage Stallone. They had a falling out during the shooting of their final collaboration \"Nighthawks\" (1982).\n\n"}
{"id": "33240805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33240805", "title": "Kainat Soomro", "text": "Kainat Soomro\n\nKainat Soomro () (born May 2, 1993 in Mehar, Pakistan) is a Pakistani woman whose struggle to obtain justice for her gang rape at the age of 13 drew international attention. Kainat was steadfast in her determination to obtain justice against her alleged attackers.\nIn 2007, Soomro claimed that she stopped into a local store to buy a toy for her niece while walking home from school. It was here that she alleged that she was drugged, kidnapped, and subsequently gang-raped by four men, among them a father and son. Soomro claims to have escaped three days after being taken captive.\n\nAfter receiving his daughter back into his home, Soomro's father was allegedly rebuffed by the police, and a local tribunal determined her to be \"kari\", a \"black female\", having lost her virginity outside of marriage. Soomro was potentially subject to \"karo kari\", synonymous to honor killing; however, this notion was rejected by her father, brother, and mother. Fearing the subsequent backlash of this ruling after being subject to several attacks, however, Soomro's family fled to Karachi.\n\nDefiant of traditional norms, Soomro took her alleged perpetrators to court where the judge ultimately ruled that they were innocent, stating that \"There is no corroborative evidence available on record. The sole testimony of the alleged rape survivor is not sufficient.\" Kainat worked with the group WAR, War Against Rape, to try to bring her attackers to justice.\n\nDuring her captivity, Kainat was supposedly married to Ahsan Thebo, one of the alleged rapists, a ceremonial tactic that is apparently often used in Pakistan to avoid the harsh penalty for rape: death. The cleric who performed the marriage claimed that she looked eighteen and that she did not appear to have been forced into the marriage. The judge upheld the marriage according to Islamic law, which still takes precedence over Pakistani law, even though she was thirteen at the time and below the age of consent according to Pakistani law. She did remember signing some unknown documents and that her thumbprints were taken at gunpoint. Pakistani law did not recognize marital rape as legitimate at the time of the trial.\n\nNone of the alleged rapists brought up the marriage when Kainat was accused of having sex outside of marriage. The judgment of the village elders was that she should be killed. Only when the men were accused and stood trial did they raise that defense. The accused believe she should be silent about her ordeal. Ahsan continued to insist that he will take her from her family.\n\nKainat's brother was killed a month after the court ruling, allegedly for having defended his sister during the ordeal. The Soomro family have been subject to attack, Soomro's brother and father having been beaten by iron rods; Soomro, herself, also received death threats. The family is currently engaged in appeals against the court's ruling.\n\nSoomro was the subject of a documentary film entitled \"Outlawed in Pakistan\", depicting her story as an alleged rape victim. The film casts her struggle as a documentary of her and her family's struggle for justice, showcasing the subsequent losses they encounter in defying cultural conventions.\n\nA Non-profit organisation the \"International Sindhi Women Organization’s\" on the day of International Women’s Day raised funds in Artesia, California to support the rape victim Kainat Soomro. Kainat Soomro was invited by Malala November 2014 to attend to the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony and praised her struggle against injustice and her stand for her rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "24703964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24703964", "title": "Lost Children of the Alleghenies", "text": "Lost Children of the Alleghenies\n\nThe Lost Children of the Alleghenies is a folk story from the Appalachia region of the United States.\nJoseph and George Cox are known through the Allegheny Mountains as The Lost Children of the Alleghenies. George and Joseph Cox, then aged seven and five respectively disappeared from their home in Pavia on April 24, 1856. Their dead bodies were found several days later in the surrounding woods and they were buried in the Mount Union United Methodist Church cemetery in nearby Lovely.\n\nThere is a small memorial to them in the Spruce Hollow forest in Blue Knob State Park, Pennsylvania.\n\nGeorge, 7, and Joseph, 5, were the sons of Samuel and Susannah Cox. The Cox family lived in a cabin built by Samuel for his wife and kids. At this time old-growth logging had not yet begun in this area of Pennsylvania and the area was still heavily forested.\n\nDuring the morning of April 24, 1856, Samuel Cox heard his dog barking in the forest and thought that it must have treed a squirrel. Samuel retrieved his rifle and headed into the woods. It is thought that while Samuel was gone, the boys must have strayed from home to follow their father. Susannah thought that Samuel had taken the boys with him. It was only when Samuel returned without them that they realized their children were gone. They called for the boys but received no replies. Samuel went for help from his nearest neighbors and by that evening more than one hundred men were searching for the children. Fires were lit in the forest in the hope that the boys would see one and approach. Nearly a thousand people showed up to search the next day. A nearby stream, Bob's Creek, was surging with spring snow melt and it was thought that there was no way the boys could have crossed to the other side without drowning. A search of the creek was performed but the boys were not found.\n\nOn April 26, suspicion fell on Samuel and Susannah Cox. It was thought that they might have murdered their children in the hope of gathering donations from a sympathetic population. The Cox cabin and garden were searched but no bodies were located. The searchers went so far as to bring in a dowser and a witch from Somerset County. The dowser found nothing and the witch, despite claiming to know the children's location, led a search team through the woods for hours without turning up anything. \n\nThe legend tells that the night after the disappearance a local farmer, Jacob Dibert, heard about the missing children and remarked to his wife that he wished to be able to dream of the boys' location. On May 2, 1856, he had a dream in which he walked a path through the woods past a dead deer, a child's shoe and a fallen birch tree and eventually to a copse of birch trees in a small ravine. Here he found the bodies of the Cox boys. The dream reoccurred on the two following nights. Dibert told no-one but his wife about the dream; however, he felt that the dream was prophetic and on May 7 he told his brother-in-law Harrison Whysong. Whysong recognised elements from Dibert's dream and the two men decided to make a search, culminating in the discovery of the bodies just as the dream had described - under birch trees in a small ravine reached along a track with a dead deer, a child's shoe and a fallen birch.\n\nIn 1906, for the 50th anniversary of the event, the community of Pavia took up donations for a Lost Children of the Alleghenies Monument to honor the Cox family. In 1910, they erected the monument at the spot where Joseph and George Cox were found over 50 years earlier.\n\nAlison Krauss released a song written by Julie Lee and John Pennell about the story entitled \"Jacob's Dream\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49083820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49083820", "title": "Maria Bird", "text": "Maria Bird\n\nMaria Bird was born Mary Edith Bird (pronounced Marie) on 24 August 1891 in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa and died in the village where she lived for most of her life, Westerham, Kent, England on 25 August 1979, aged 88.\nShe is a descendant of Francis Bird the sculptor and Colonel Christopher Bird who was Colonial Secretary at Cape Town Castle (who has a famous landmark named after him in Kirstenbosch, South Africa – Colonel Bird's Bath). Her mother brought her children from South Africa to the UK to be educated and Maria attended a Scottish convent. Following school, she studied the Dalcroze Eurhythmics music and dance method under Émile Jaques-Dalcroze in Dessau.\n\nMaria Bird helped found BBC Children's Television with her collaborator and partner Freda Lingstrom with whom she set up Westerham Arts, the production company commissioned by the BBC to produce TV pieces including \"The Woodentops\" (1955), \"Bill and Ben the Flower Pot Men\" (1952) and \"Andy Pandy\" (1950). Westerham Arts was based in Chartwell Cottage (owned by Bird and Lingstom and subsequently bequeathed to the National Trust). It neighbours the Chartwell Estate. Maria and Freda built a shed in their garden where their puppet films were made.\nIn addition to TV production she was a writer, narrator and musician.\n\n"}
{"id": "21673269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673269", "title": "Martín de Alarcón", "text": "Martín de Alarcón\n\nMartín de Alarcón was the Governor of Coahuila and Spanish Texas from 1705 until 1708, and again from 1716 until 1719. He founded San Antonio, the first Spanish civilian settlement in Texas. \n\nAlarcón was first appointed governor of the Spanish provinces of Coahuila and Texas in 1705. At this time, no Spanish settlements existed in Texas. The last of the original Catholic missions in East Texas had been abandoned in 1699. The French had been establishing settlements west of the Mississippi River, and Spanish authorities feared that the French would expand into Texas. In 1707, the viceroy of New Spain ordered all provincial governors to prevent the entry of foreigners and their goods. Alarcón proposed that one of the missions along the Rio Grande, Mission San Bernardo, be relocated into Texas, along the Frio River. Nothing came of this idea, and later in 1707 Alarcón authorized an expedition into Texas, primarily to dissuade the Indians in the area from becoming friendly with the French. The Spanish troops reached only as far as the Colorado River (Texas) o \"río San Marco\", but spent some time exploring the area around the San Antonio River; they were much impressed with the land and availability of water.\n\nIn early 1716, the Spanish government authorized a second attempt to convert the Hasinai tribe of East Texas to Christianity. Four missions and a presidio were established. Several of the soldiers assigned to the presidio brought their families with them, marking the first Spanish women recorded to enter Texas.\n\nLater that year, Alarcón was re-appointed governor of Coahuila and Texas. He soon received word that the new missions were in dire straits, with extremely low levels of provisions. Their supplies must come from the nearest Spanish settlement, San Juan Bautista, located away. Alarcón envisioned creating a way station between the interior provinces and the missions of Texas. He looked first to the headwaters of the San Antonio River, an area the Spanish had mapped in 1707. It was already home to a large community of Coahuiltecans. \n\nAs Alarcon journeyed to San Juan Bautista, the launching point for an attempt to resupply the missions, he received a letter from Father Olivares, alleging that Frenchman Louis Juchereau de St. Denis had established an illegal trade network along the Rio Grande. On his arrival at San Juan Bautista, Alarcon began an investigation of the allegations. St. Denis was jailed during the four-month investigation, but Alarcon was unable to find proof that the presidial soldiers had–actively or passively–allowed illegal trade to flourish in the area. St. Denis was released from prison and fled back to Louisiana.\nBy the time the investigation ended, winter had begun, making it impractical for Alarcón to immediately proceed into Texas. On April 9, 1718, Alarcón headed an expedition to found a community in central Texas. He was accompanied by 72 people, including 10 families. They brought with them 548 horses, 6 droves of mules, and other livestock. On their arrival, the group first built a temporary structure to serve as a mission, named San Antonio de Valero, which later gained fame as the Alamo. One mile (two km) north of the mission, Alarcón built a presidio, Presidio San Antonio de Bexar. Near the presidio, Alarcón chartered a new municipality, called Bejar (now known as San Antonio). Given a status higher than a village (\"pueblo\") but lower than a city (\"ciudad\"), San Antonio became the only \"villa\" in Texas, and the colonists who settled there relied on farming and ranching to survive. \n\nWith the new settlement established, Alarcón continued on to re-provision and inspect the East Texas missions. Besides replenishing mission supplies, Alarcón was tasked with resettling the Indians in villages near the missions, and wished to investigate whether the Spanish in East Texas were illegally trading with the French at nearby Natchitoches. \n\nThe missionaries were becoming increasingly desperate as they waited for Alarcón to arrive. They appointed two members, representing both the missionary schools of Querétaro and Zacatecas, to carry a personal appeal to Spanish authorities in Mexico City. Their missive not only detailed the deprivations they had endured and the perceived slowness of Alarcón's response, but also mentioned their fear that France would soon extend their settlements into Texas. \n\nWhile visiting the existing missions, Alarcón ordered that a new mission be established for the Nassoni people. Before his orders could be enacted, he received a letter from a French explorer, Bernard de la Harpe. La Harpe had just established a trading post within Nassoni territory (now part of Oklahoma). In a series of letters, Alarcón and la Harpe set out their positions for the boundaries between the territory of the two nations. Alarcón maintained that the area la Harpe had settled was in fact part of Spanish New Mexico, while la Harpe responded that all of Texas should belong to the French. Although la Harpe challenged Alarcón to remove the French trading post, Alarcon made no attempt to do so.\n\nIn late May 1719, Alarcón and his men began their return trip to the Mexican interior. Between the Brazos River and the Colorado River Alarcón encountered the Rancheria Grande which was the home to Yojuane, Ervipiame, Jumano, Mayeye and several other allied Native American groups. While traveling through the Rancheria Grande Alarcón attempted to set up easy trading with the people of the Rancheria by designating El Cuilón, who he called Juan Rodriguez, a prominent Ervipiame, as the chief of the Rancheria and giving him the baton to designate him as a commander. \n\nWhile Alarcón and associates were en route, a group of French soldiers took control of the mission of San Miguel de los Adeas from its sole defender, The French soldiers explained that 100 additional soldiers were coming, and the Spanish colonists, missionaries, and remaining soldiers abandoned the area and fled to San Antonio. The missionaries sent a scathing letter to the viceroy, blaming Alarcón for their difficulties and the French usurpation of their post. On December 19, 1719, Alarcón was removed from office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36815492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36815492", "title": "NEST (software)", "text": "NEST (software)\n\nNEST is a simulation software for spiking neural network models, including large-scale neuronal networks. NEST was initially developed by Markus Diesmann and Marc-Oliver Gewaltig and is now developed and maintained by the NEST Initiative.\n\nA NEST simulation tries to follow the logic of an electrophysiological experiment that takes place inside a computer with the difference, that the neural system to be investigated must be defined by the experimenter.\n\nThe neural system is defined by a possibly large number of neurons and their connections. In a NEST network, different neuron and synapse models can coexist. Any two neurons can have multiple connections with different properties. Thus, the connectivity can in general not be described by a weight or connectivity matrix but rather as an adjacency list.\n\nTo manipulate or observe the network dynamics, the experimenter can define so-called devices which represent the various instruments (for measuring and stimulation) found in an experiment. These devices write their data either to memory or to file.\n\nNEST is extensible and new models for neurons, synapses, and devices can be added.\n\nThe following example simulates spiking activity in a sparse random network with recurrent excitation and inhibition\n\nThe figure shows the spiking activity of 50 neurons as a raster plot. Time increases along the horizontal axis, neuron id increases along the vertical axis. Each dot corresponds to a spike of the respective neuron at a given time. The lower part of the figure shows a histogram with the mean firing-rate of the neurons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNEST development was started in 1993 by Markus Diesmann and Marc-Oliver Gewaltig at the Ruhr University Bochum, Bochum, Germany and the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel. At this time, the simulator was called SYNOD and simulations were defined in a stack based simulation language, called SLI.\n\nIn 2001, the software changed its name from SYNOD to NEST. Until 2004, NEST was exclusively developed and used by the founding members of the NEST Initiative. The first public release appeared in summer 2004. Since then, NEST was released regularly, about once or twice per year.\n\nSince 2007, NEST supports hybrid parallelism, using POSIX threads and MPI.\n\nIn 2008, the stack-based simulation language SLI was superseded by a modern Python interface, however, the old simulation language is still used internally.\nAt the same time, the simulator independent specification language PyNN was developed with support for NEST.\nIn 2012, the NEST Initiative changed the license from the proprietary NEST License to GNU GPL V2 or later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1467819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467819", "title": "Nancy Eaton", "text": "Nancy Eaton\n\nNancy Alice Edward Eaton (May 28, 1961 – January 21, 1985) was a Canadian heiress and a member of the prominent Eaton family. She was the great-great-granddaughter of Timothy Eaton, founder of Eaton's department stores. She was the only daughter of Edward Eaton and Nancy Leigh (Gossage) Eaton of Toronto.\n\nOn January 21, 1985, Eaton was stabbed twenty-one times and then raped in her apartment in Toronto. An acquaintance of Eaton's, Ernest John Andrew Leyshon-Hughes, also known as Andrew Leyshon-Hughes, who was himself a member of the prominent Canadian Osler family, admitted to murdering her, but was found not guilty by reason of insanity. He was indefinitely remanded to the custody of The Ontario Review Board. In February 2001, Leyshon-Hughes was living at the Royal Ottawa Hospital and was a student at Algonquin College.\nIn 2005, Leyshon-Hughes was discharged from the psychiatric hospital into the community.\n\nIn 2003, the television movie \"The Death and Life of Nancy Eaton\" was released. Jessica Paré played the part of Nancy. It airs on LMN in the United States and is based on the book \"A Question of Guilt\" by William Scoular.\n\n"}
{"id": "419164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419164", "title": "Norman Mayer", "text": "Norman Mayer\n\nNorman David Mayer (March 31, 1916 – December 9, 1982) was an American anti-nuclear weapons activist who was shot and killed by the United States Park Police after threatening to blow up the Washington Monument.\n\nMayer was born in El Paso, Texas, to Jesse and Margott Mayer. After his father died two years later, his penniless mother moved him and his brother Aubrey to New Orleans; she then entered nursing school and placed the children in an orphanage. As a teenager, Mayer attended a trade school where he trained as a tool and die maker. He left New Orleans and spent much of the 1930s travelling from job to job from Nome, Alaska, to the Caribbean, working in a rubber plant and in gold mines among other jobs. He was drafted into the United States Navy in 1944 while living in Los Angeles and spent two years stationed at the San Diego Naval Station. He was discharged as a fireman first class and returned to a life of drifting, working in Miami as a machinist in the mid-1950s, as a hotel maintenance man in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Jamaica during the 1960s, and as a helicopter mechanic in South Vietnam from 1969-1970. In 1971, he was seriously injured while working on an oil rig in Brunei and recuperated in Singapore before traveling across South Asia. In 1976, he was arrested in Hong Kong for possession of of marijuana in a botched attempt to make a sale. Mayer researched the law in jail and after fifteen months managed to have his conviction reversed on a technicality. He was deported back to the U.S. and returned to working in hotels.\n\nIn 1978, Mayer focused on protesting nuclear weapons. He wished to stage a destructive and dramatic event to grab attention for his cause, and unsuccessfully tried to purchase explosives in Hazard, Kentucky, in May 1982. Mayer moved to Washington, DC in June that year, and spent every day for the next few months displaying large plywood signs in front of the White House and proselytizing to passing tourists. Mayer eventually found this manner of protesting frustrating and ineffectual and developed a new attention-getting scheme.\n\nOn December 8, 1982, Mayer drove a white van bearing the message \"#1 PRIORITY: BAN NUCLEAR WEAPONS\" in large letters on its side up to the base of the Washington Monument and jumped out wearing a black motorcycle helmet, a bright blue snowsuit and carrying a remote control. Mayer claimed that he would destroy the Monument with of TNT loaded in his van unless a national dialogue on the threat of nuclear weapons was seriously undertaken. Mayer also claimed that he had a hidden accomplice who could also detonate the explosives.\n\nThe U.S. Park Police evacuated nearby buildings and closed down streets for several blocks. Eight tourists were initially trapped inside the Monument, but were released after AP reporter Steven Komarow began negotiating with Mayer. Ten hours into the negotiation, Mayer jumped into his van and started to drive off, threatening to become \"a moving time bomb in downtown Washington\". The police opened fire, striking Mayer four times—twice in the head.\n\nThe Park Police later claimed that they did not intend to shoot Mayer, but were instead aiming for the van's engine. Their subsequent investigation disclosed that Mayer had neither explosives nor an accomplice.\n\nMayer was one of a number of individuals connected to the White House Peace Vigil at Lafayette Square, Washington, D.C.. \"The Oracles of Pennsylvania Avenue\" (2012) by Tim Wilkerson, a documentary commissioned by the Al Jazeera Documentary Channel, recounts the lives of Mayer, Thomas, Concepcion Picciotto and Ellen Thomas. Thomas, who believed in nonviolence, refused to take part in Mayer's plan to destroy public monuments, as Mayer was unable to assure him of the safety of civilians and officials.\n\nGeorge Stephanopoulos, later White House Press Secretary and communications director under President Bill Clinton, was a 21-year-old intern at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace when Mayer stopped in his office several times to discuss nuclear disarmament. On December 8, 1982, Stephanopoulos made his first appearance on \"Nightline\" to discuss Mayer.\n\nIn the December 19, 1982, installment of his column \"An Edge in My Voice\", the writer and activist Harlan Ellison discussed the incident, expressing great sympathy for Mayer's position and outrage at what he regarded as an overreaction by law enforcement. Ellison, who claimed to have recognized Mayer's threat as a bluff as soon as he heard TV reports on the crisis, noted that, had the threat been genuine, the explosion of of TNT, even at such close proximity, would have barely damaged the Washington Monument's exterior and could not have possibly destroyed it. Ellison expressed his sadness over the unnecessary death of Mayer saying, \"Had there been a scintilla of compassion, rather than macho posturing, in any of the authorities handling the situation, it need not have ended as it did. But there were none... not on the part of the White House advisors who moved Ronald Reagan's luncheon out of the room facing the Monument. And not on the part of our noble President who, like Richard Nixon, saw what was going on and shrugged, and ignored his responsibility.\" The column was among several reprinted in Ellison's collections \"An Edge in My Voice\" and \"Edgeworks 1\". A recording of Ellison reading the column is found on the CD \"On the Road with Ellison Volume 1\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977182", "title": "Oligohydramnios", "text": "Oligohydramnios\n\nOligohydramnios is a condition in pregnancy characterized by a deficiency of amniotic fluid. It is the opposite of polyhydramnios.\n\nThe common clinical features are smaller symphysio-fundal height, fetal malpresentation, undue prominence of fetal parts and reduced amount of amniotic fluid.\n\nComplications may include cord compression, musculoskeletal abnormalities such as facial distortion and clubfoot, pulmonary hypoplasia and intrauterine growth restriction. Amnion nodosum is frequently also present (nodules on the fetal surface of the amnion).\n\nThe use of oligohydramnios as a predictor of gestational complications is controversial.\n\nPotter syndrome is a condition caused by oligohydramnios. Affected fetuses develop pulmonary hypoplasia, limb deformities, and characteristic facies. Bilateral agenesis of the fetal kidneys is the most common cause due to the lack of fetal urine.\n\nThe cause is not known but is often associated with some:\n\n\nA Cochrane review concluded that \"simple maternal hydration appears to increase amniotic fluid volume and may be beneficial in the management of oligohydramnios and prevention of oligohydramnios during labour or prior to external cephalic version.\"\n\nIn severe cases oligohydramnios may be treated with amnioinfusion during labor to prevent umbilical cord compression. There is uncertainty about the procedure's safety and efficacy, and it is recommended that it should only be performed in centres specialising in invasive fetal medicine and in the context of a multidisciplinary team.\n\nIn case of congenital lower urinary tract obstruction, fetal surgery seems to improve survival, according to a randomized yet small study.\n\n"}
{"id": "733927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733927", "title": "Outbreak (film)", "text": "Outbreak (film)\n\nOutbreak is a 1995 American medical disaster film directed by Wolfgang Petersen and based on Richard Preston's nonfiction book \"The Hot Zone\". It stars Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo and Morgan Freeman, and co-stars Cuba Gooding Jr., Kevin Spacey, Donald Sutherland and Patrick Dempsey.\n\nThe film focuses on an outbreak of a fictional Ebola-like virus, Motaba, in Zaire and later in a small town in the United States. It is primarily set in the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the fictional town of Cedar Creek, California. \"Outbreak\" plot speculates how far military and civilian agencies might go to contain the spread of a deadly, contagious disease.\n\nThe film, released on March 10, 1995, was a box-office success and Spacey won two awards for his performance. A real-life outbreak of the Ebola virus was occurring in Zaire when the film was released.\n\nIn 1967, a virus called Motaba, which causes a deadly fever, is discovered in the African jungle. To keep the virus a secret, U.S. Army officers Donald McClintock and William Ford destroy the camp where soldiers were infected. Twenty-eight years later, Colonel Sam Daniels, a USAMRIID virologist, is sent to investigate an outbreak in Zaire. He and his crew—Lieutenant Colonel Casey Schuler and new recruit Major Salt—gather information and return to the United States. Ford, now a brigadier general and Daniels' superior officer, dismisses the latter's fears that the virus will spread.\n\nBetsy, a white-headed capuchin monkey that is host to the virus, is smuggled into the country. James \"Jimbo\" Scott, a worker at an animal testing laboratory, is infected when he steals Betsy to sell on the black market. Jimbo fails to sell Betsy to Rudy Alvarez, a pet-store owner in the California town of Cedar Creek. After releasing the monkey in the woods of Palisades, he develops symptoms on a flight to Boston and infects his girlfriend, Alice. Their illness is investigated by Dr. Roberta Keough, a CDC scientist and Daniels' ex-wife. Jimbo, Alice, and Rudy die, but Keough determines that no one else in Boston was infected.\n\nA hospital technician in Cedar Creek is infected when he accidentally breaks the vial of Rudy's blood. The virus mutates into a strain capable of spreading like influenza, allowing a number of people to be infected in a movie theater. Daniels flies to Cedar Creek against Ford's orders, joining Keough's team with Schuler and Salt. As they begin a search for the monkey, the Army quarantines the town and imposes martial law. Schuler is infected when his suit tears, and Keough accidentally sticks herself with a contaminated needle.\n\nWhen Ford provides an experimental serum, Daniels realizes that he was aware of the virus before the outbreak. He confronts Ford, who admits that the original Motaba strain was actually a military bioweapon; the 1967 outbreak in Africa had in fact been a test-run of the virus, which subsequently infected the local monkey population despite Ford's and McClintock's attempt to halt its spread and cover up their actions. Daniels learns about Operation Clean Sweep, a plan for the military to contain the virus by bombing Cedar Creek. McClintock, now a major general, plans to use the operation to conceal the virus's existence. \n\nTo prevent Daniels from finding a cure, McClintock orders him arrested for carrying the virus. Daniels escapes, and he and Salt fly a helicopter to the ship which carried Betsy. Daniels obtains a picture of Betsy and releases it to the media; a Palisades resident, Mrs. Jeffries, realizes that her daughter Kate has been playing with Betsy in their yard and calls the CDC. Daniels and Salt arrive at the Jeffries' house, and Salt tranquilizes Betsy after Kate coaxes her out of hiding. When he learns from Daniels about Betsy's capture, Ford delays the bombing.\n\nOn their return flight, Daniels and Salt are chased by McClintock in another helicopter, and Salt fires two missiles into the trees to deceive him into thinking that they crashed. In Cedar Creek, Salt mixes Betsy's antibodies with Ford's serum to create an antiserum; although Schuler has died, they save Keough. McClintock returns to base and resumes Operation Clean Sweep, refusing to listen to Ford. Daniels and Salt fly a helicopter in the path of the bomber. With Ford's help, Daniels persuades the bomber's flight crew to detonate the bomb over water and spare the town. Before McClintock can order another bombing, Ford relieves him of command and orders his arrest. Daniels and Keough reconcile, and Cedar Creek's residents are cured.\n\nScenes in \"Cedar Creek\" were filmed in Ferndale, California, where tanks and helicopters were a common feature of daily life during nearly two months of filming. Other locations used were Dugway Proving Ground and Kauai.\n\nIn November 2017, amid a series of sexual misconduct allegations against Spacey, U.S. Marine Corps veteran Mark Ebenhoch, who had been a military advisor on the film, revealed that the actor made an unwanted sexual advance toward him during production.\n\n\"Outbreak\" topped the U.S. box-office list its opening weekend with earnings of $13,420,387, and spent three weeks at number one before \"Tommy Boy\"s release. The film, which grossed $67,659,560 domestically and $122,200,000 internationally, was a commercial success.\n\n\"Outbreak\" received mixed reviews. According to review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 59% of 44 critics gave the film a positive review for a rating average of 5.6 out of 10. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave it three-and-a-half out of four stars, calling \"Outbreak\" premise \"one of the great scare stories of our time, the notion that deep in the uncharted rain forests, deadly diseases are lurking, and if they ever escape their jungle homes and enter the human bloodstream, there will be a new plague the likes of which we have never seen.\" Rita Kempley of \"The Washington Post\" also enjoyed the film's plot: \"\"Outbreak\" is an absolute hoot thanks primarily to director Wolfgang Petersen's rabid pacing and the great care he brings to setting up the story and its probability.\"\n\nDavid Denby wrote for \"New York\" magazine that although the opening scenes were well-done, \"somewhere in the middle ... \"Outbreak\" falls off a cliff\" and becomes \"lamely conventional\". Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" also found the film's subject compelling but its treatment ineffective: \"The film's shallowness also contributes to the impression that no problem is too thorny to be solved by movie heroics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11751617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11751617", "title": "Petros (pelican)", "text": "Petros (pelican)\n\nPetros was a great white pelican. It was the official mascot of the Greek island of Mykonos.\n\nIn 1958, a wounded pelican was found off the coast of Mykonos by a local fisherman. The pelican was nursed to health and remained on the island supported by locals. It soon adopted the name \"Petros\", as a joke among locals, as \"petro\" in Greek means \"rock\" or \"stone\", but metaphorically \"old and grumpy\". Petros was hit and killed by a car in December 1985.\n\nSubsequently, three new pelicans took up residence around the main town of Mykonos. One, honorifically, was given the name \"Petros\".\n"}
{"id": "27265662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27265662", "title": "Postenpflicht", "text": "Postenpflicht\n\nThe Postenpflicht (\"Duty of Guards\") was part of a written order for SS guards in Nazi concentration camps regarding the use of firearms. It required SS guards to shoot prisoners who tried to escape or engage in resistance and to do so without verbal warning or a warning shot. This was relevant for example regarding the so-called \"death strip\" next to camp fences. The area next to these fences was off-limits and anyone getting too close to it was, in accordance with the Postenpflicht, killed without warning. The order stated that failure to shoot would result in the dismissal or arrest of the guard. Issued on October 1, 1933 as an order for Dachau, the order was later extended to other camps. \n\nDachau concentration camp opened on March 22, 1933. Though initially using local Munich policemen as guards, within weeks, they were replaced by the SS and on April 13, 1933, Hilmar Wäckerle, an SS-Standartenführer, became the first commandant. He was instructed by Heinrich Himmler, Munich chief of police and Obergruppenführer of the SS, to draw up a set of regulations for discipline in the camp. The rules were extremely harsh and several prisoners died as a direct result of their punishment.\n\nThe Munich prosecutor's office, not yet fully in line with National Socialist policy, in May 1933, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau concentration camp, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at Dachau. Rumors were already widespread about harsh treatment of those under detention and Himmler was forced to refute those claims, even while announcing the opening of Dachau. Charges of murder were filed against Wäckerle and Himmler was forced to remove Wäckerle. The murder charges were later dropped after the chief prosecutor and his assistant were each transferred to other offices. Himmler continued his efforts to establish summary execution, then in practice only at Dachau, as a legitimate form of punishment.\n\nTheodor Eicke was commissioned to develop a new camp order and a new regulations handbook. He wrote the \"postenpflicht\" with instructions to fire on prisoners immediately and \"without warning\". Refusal to obey this order would bring serious consequences for camp personnel: summary dismissal and even arrest.\n\nThe \"Regulations for Prisoner Escorts and Guards\" (\"Dienstvorschrift für die Begleitpersonen und Gefangenenbewachung\") were dated and went into effect on October 1, 1933 The infamous \"Lagerordnung\", the \"Disciplinary and Penal Code for the Prison Camp\" were issued on the same date. Also known as the \"Strafkatalog\" (\"Penalty Catalogue\"), this list of rules, infractions and punishments went into effect immediately, as well and both sets of regulations were made effective at all the SS concentration camps a few months later, on January 1, 1934. Together, the regulations allowed guards to mete out harsh punishments for even minor infractions and gave them wide latitude to execute prisoners and over time, devolved into a general system of terror punishment.\n\nThe perimeter of the detention camp grounds was marked by electrified fences and walls. Alongside the wall was a moat and next to that was an area called the \"neutral zone\". Dubbed the \"death strip\" by prisoners, it was a forbidden area. A prisoner who even went near this area risked being shot by a guard invoking the \"postenpflicht\". Guards who shot a prisoner received a bounty and three days off. Guards, for their amusement and profit, would throw a prisoner's cap into the \"death zone\" and order the prisoner to get it \"on the double\" and then shoot the prisoner. They sometimes did this in pairs because they received a bounty for shooting a prisoner, so they would take turns in order to both get the bounty. Witnesses and former prisoners have also reported cases where prisoners intentionally walked into the forbidden zone, to escape the camp through death.\n\nPrisoner work details outside a concentration camp were called \"Außenkommandos\" (\"outside commandos\") by the SS. The SS guards would form a \"postenkette\", a cordon of guards to surround the work site and maintain watch. The imaginary boundary formed by the cordon was not to be crossed by a prisoner. Stepping outside the boundary was treated as an escape attempt and the guards, adhering to the \"postenpflicht\", were to fire without warning. If a prisoner did manage to escape, the SS guard was charged with \"negligent release of a prisoner\".\n\nThe \"postenpflicht\" was also valid for the SS-Totenkopfverbände that came to the concentration camps to serve as guards and auxiliary police. During the war years, female guards were also employed at concentration camps. As overseers, they were also ordered to use their firearms in the case of physical attack by a prisoner or an escape attempt.\n\nReich Minister of Justice Franz Gurtner was in contact with Reichsführer-SS Himmler to mitigate the \"postenpflicht\" a bit, but he was unable to accomplish anything.\n\nCamp commandants were also held accountable to the \"postenpflicht\". Karl Otto Koch was commandant at Majdanek concentration camp and on July 14, 1942, during his tenure, 200 Soviet prisoners of war escaped. Only half were later recaptured. In August 1942, Koch was charged with \"negligent release of a prisoner\" and was reprimanded with a disciplinary transfer to the lesser job of \"Postschutz\" in Eger.\n\nDachau concentration camp\n\n\"Headquarters, Oct. 1, 1933\"\n\nRegulations for Prisoner Escorts and Guards\n\n6. Postenpflicht\n\n\"Whoever allows a prisoner to escape will be arrested and charged with Negligent Prisoner Release and handed over to the Bavarian Political Police.\"\n\n\"If a prisoner attempts to escape, he is to be shot, without warning. A guard who shoots an escaping prisoner in the course of carrying out his duty, will not be reprimanded.\n\n\"Where a guard is physically attacked by a prisoner, the attack is to be repelled with use of a firearm, not return physical violence. A guard who does not comply with this order should expect his immediate dismissal. Besides, he who \"keeps his back free\"  will rarely be attacked.\"\n\n\"In the event of a revolt or organized prisoner resistance, every guard supervising is to fire upon them. Warning shots are strictly prohibited.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39247805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39247805", "title": "Samuel E. Abbott", "text": "Samuel E. Abbott\n\nSamuel E. Abbott was an American football coach. He served as the head football coach at the State Normal School of Colorado—now known as the University of Northern Colorado—in Greeley, Colorado for one season, from 1905, compiling a record of 0–2–2.\n"}
{"id": "33348000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33348000", "title": "Shimun XVI Yohannan", "text": "Shimun XVI Yohannan\n\nMar Shimun XVI Yohannan (also Shemon XVI Yohannan) was Patriarch of the Qodshanis branch of the Assyrian Church of the East from 1780, and since 1804 he remained the sole Catholicos-Patriarch, because the last patriarch of the rival \"Eliya line\" Eliya XIII Ishoyahb died without successor. Shimun XVI remained patriarch until his death in 1820.\n\nUntil 1804, there were two rival patriarchal lines within the Assyrian Church of the East, senior \"Eliya line\" in Alqosh and junior \"Shemon line\" in Qochanis. Last patriarch of the senior line Eliya XIII Ishoyahb died in 1804 and was buried in the ancient Rabban Hormizd Monastery. Since he had no successor, Shimun XVI Yohannan of the junior line became the sole Catholicos-Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28982", "title": "Snowball Earth", "text": "Snowball Earth\n\nThe Snowball Earth hypothesis proposes that Earth's surface became entirely or nearly entirely frozen at least once, sometime earlier than 650 Mya (million years ago). Proponents of the hypothesis argue that it best explains sedimentary deposits generally regarded as of glacial origin at tropical palaeolatitudes and other enigmatic features in the geological record. Opponents of the hypothesis contest the implications of the geological evidence for global glaciation and the geophysical feasibility of an ice- or slush-covered ocean and emphasize the difficulty of escaping an all-frozen condition. A number of unanswered questions remain, including whether the Earth was a full snowball, or a \"slushball\" with a thin equatorial band of open (or seasonally open) water.\n\nThe snowball-Earth episodes are proposed to have occurred before the sudden radiation of multicellular bioforms, known as the Cambrian explosion. The most recent snowball episode may have triggered the evolution of multicellularity. Another, much earlier and longer snowball episode, the Huronian glaciation, which would have occurred 2400 to 2100 Mya, may have been triggered by the first appearance of oxygen in the atmosphere, the \"Great Oxygenation Event\".\n\nLong before the idea of a global glaciation was established, a series of discoveries began to accumulate evidence for ancient Precambrian glaciations. The first of these discoveries was published in 1871 by J. Thomson who found ancient glacier-reworked material (tillite) in Islay, Scotland. Similar findings followed in Australia (1884) and India (1887). A fourth and very illustrative finding that came to be known as \"Reusch's Moraine\" was reported by Hans Reusch in northern Norway in 1891. Many other findings followed, but their understanding was hampered by the rejection of continental drift.\n\nSir Douglas Mawson (1882–1958), an Australian geologist and Antarctic explorer, spent much of his career studying the Neoproterozoic stratigraphy of South Australia, where he identified thick and extensive glacial sediments and late in his career speculated about the possibility of global glaciation.\n\nMawson's ideas of global glaciation, however, were based on the mistaken assumption that the geographic position of Australia, and that of other continents where low-latitude glacial deposits are found, has remained constant through time. With the advancement of the continental drift hypothesis, and eventually plate tectonic theory, came an easier explanation for the glaciogenic sediments—they were deposited at a point in time when the continents were at higher latitudes.\n\nIn 1964, the idea of global-scale glaciation reemerged when W. Brian Harland published a paper in which he presented palaeomagnetic data showing that glacial tillites in Svalbard and Greenland were deposited at tropical latitudes. From this palaeomagnetic data, and the sedimentological evidence that the glacial sediments interrupt successions of rocks commonly associated with tropical to temperate latitudes, he argued for an ice age that was so extreme that it resulted in the deposition of marine glacial rocks in the tropics.\n\nIn the 1960s, Mikhail Budyko, a Russian climatologist, developed a simple energy-balance climate model to investigate the effect of ice cover on global climate. Using this model, Budyko found that if ice sheets advanced far enough out of the polar regions, a feedback loop ensued where the increased reflectiveness (albedo) of the ice led to further cooling and the formation of more ice, until the entire Earth was covered in ice and stabilized in a new ice-covered equilibrium.\n\nWhile Budyko's model showed that this ice-albedo stability could happen, he concluded that it had in fact never happened, because his model offered no way to escape from such a feedback loop. In 1971, Aron Faegre, an American physicist, showed that a similar energy-balance model predicted three stable global climates, one of which was snowball earth.\n\nThis model introduced Edward Norton Lorenz's concept of intransitivity indicating that there could be a major jump from one climate to another, including to snowball earth.\n\nThe term \"snowball Earth\" was coined by Joseph Kirschvink in a short paper published in 1992 within a lengthy volume concerning the biology of the Proterozoic eon. The major contributions from this work were: (1) the recognition that the presence of banded iron formations is consistent with such a global glacial episode, and (2) the introduction of a mechanism by which to escape from a completely ice-covered Earth—specifically, the accumulation of from volcanic outgassing leading to an ultra-greenhouse effect.\n\nFranklyn Van Houten's discovery of a consistent geological pattern in which lake levels rose and fell is now known as the \"Van Houten cycle\". His studies of phosphorus deposits and banded iron formations in sedimentary rocks made him an early adherent of the \"snowball Earth\" hypothesis postulating that the planet's surface froze more than 650 million years ago.\n\nInterest in the notion of a snowball Earth increased dramatically after Paul F. Hoffman and his co-workers applied Kirschvink's ideas to a succession of Neoproterozoic sedimentary rocks in Namibia and elaborated upon the hypothesis in the journal \"Science\" in 1998 by incorporating such observations as the occurrence of cap carbonates.\n\nIn 2010, Francis MacDonald reported evidence that Rodinia was at equatorial latitude during the Cryogenian period with glacial ice at or below sea level, and that the associated Sturtian glaciation was global.\n\nThe snowball Earth hypothesis was originally devised to explain geological evidence for the apparent presence of glaciers at tropical latitudes. According to modelling, an ice–albedo feedback would result in glacial ice rapidly advancing to the equator once the glaciers spread to within 25° to 30° of the equator. Therefore, the presence of glacial deposits within the tropics suggests global ice cover.\n\nCritical to an assessment of the validity of the theory, therefore, is an understanding of the reliability and significance of the evidence that led to the belief that ice ever reached the tropics. This evidence must prove two things:\n\nDuring a period of global glaciation, it must also be demonstrated that glaciers were active at different global locations at the same time, and that no other deposits of the same age are in existence.\n\nThis last point is very difficult to prove. Before the Ediacaran, the biostratigraphic markers usually used to correlate rocks are absent; therefore there is no way to prove that rocks in different places across the globe were deposited at precisely the same time. The best that can be done is to estimate the age of the rocks using radiometric methods, which are rarely accurate to better than a million years or so.\n\nThe first two points are often the source of contention on a case-to-case basis. Many glacial features can also be created by non-glacial means, and estimating the approximate latitudes of landmasses even as recently as can be riddled with difficulties.\n\nThe snowball Earth hypothesis was first posited to explain what were then considered to be glacial deposits near the equator. Since tectonic plates move slowly over time, ascertaining their position at a given point in Earth's long history is not easy. In addition to considerations of how the recognizable landmasses could have fit together, the latitude at which a rock was deposited can be constrained by palaeomagnetism.\n\nWhen sedimentary rocks form, magnetic minerals within them tend to align themselves with the Earth's magnetic field. Through the precise measurement of this palaeomagnetism, it is possible to estimate the latitude (but not the longitude) where the rock matrix was formed. Palaeomagnetic measurements have indicated that some sediments of glacial origin in the Neoproterozoic rock record were deposited within 10 degrees of the equator, although the accuracy of this reconstruction is in question. This palaeomagnetic location of apparently glacial sediments (such as dropstones) has been taken to suggest that glaciers extended from land to sea level in tropical latitudes at the time the sediments were deposited. It is not clear whether this implies a global glaciation, or the existence of localized, possibly land-locked, glacial regimes. Others have even suggested that most data do not constrain any glacial deposits to within 25° of the equator.\n\nSkeptics suggest that the palaeomagnetic data could be corrupted if Earth's ancient magnetic field was substantially different from today's. Depending on the rate of cooling of Earth's core, it is possible that during the Proterozoic, the magnetic field did not approximate a simple dipolar distribution, with north and south magnetic poles roughly aligning with the planet's axis as they do today. Instead, a hotter core may have circulated more vigorously and given rise to 4, 8 or more poles. Palaeomagnetic data would then have to be re-interpreted, as the sedimentary minerals could have aligned pointing to a 'West Pole' rather than the North Pole. Alternatively, Earth's dipolar field could have been oriented such that the poles were close to the equator. This hypothesis has been posited to explain the extraordinarily rapid motion of the magnetic poles implied by the Ediacaran palaeomagnetic record; the alleged motion of the north pole would occur around the same time as the Gaskiers glaciation.\n\nAnother weakness of reliance on palaeomagnetic data is the difficulty in determining whether the magnetic signal recorded is original, or whether it has been reset by later activity. For example, a mountain-building orogeny releases hot water as a by-product of metamorphic reactions; this water can circulate to rocks thousands of kilometers away and reset their magnetic signature. This makes the authenticity of rocks older than a few million years difficult to determine without painstaking mineralogical observations. Moreover, further evidence is accumulating that large-scale remagnetization events have taken place which may necessitate revision of the estimated positions of the palaeomagnetic poles.\n\nThere is currently only one deposit, the Elatina deposit of Australia, that was indubitably deposited at low latitudes; its depositional date is well-constrained, and the signal is demonstrably original.\n\nSedimentary rocks that are deposited by glaciers have distinctive features that enable their identification. Long before the advent of the \"snowball Earth\" hypothesis many Neoproterozoic sediments had been interpreted as having a glacial origin, including some apparently at tropical latitudes at the time of their deposition. However, it is worth remembering that many sedimentary features traditionally associated with glaciers can also be formed by other means. Thus the glacial origin of many of the key occurrences for snowball Earth has been contested.\nAs of 2007, there was only one \"very reliable\"—still challenged—datum point identifying tropical tillites, which makes statements of equatorial ice cover somewhat presumptuous. However, evidence of sea-level glaciation in the tropics during the Sturtian is accumulating.\nEvidence of possible glacial origin of sediment includes:\n\nIt appears that some deposits formed during the snowball period could only have formed in the presence of an active hydrological cycle. Bands of glacial deposits up to 5,500 meters thick, separated by small (meters) bands of non-glacial sediments, demonstrate that glaciers melted and re-formed repeatedly for tens of millions of years; solid oceans would not permit this scale of deposition. It is considered possible that ice streams such as seen in Antarctica today could have caused these sequences.\nFurther, sedimentary features that could only form in open water (for example: wave-formed ripples, far-traveled ice-rafted debris and indicators of photosynthetic activity) can be found throughout sediments dating from the snowball-Earth periods. While these may represent \"oases\" of meltwater on a completely frozen Earth, computer modelling suggests that large areas of the ocean must have remained ice-free; arguing that a \"hard\" snowball is not plausible in terms of energy balance and general circulation models.\n\nThere are two stable isotopes of carbon in sea water: carbon-12 (C) and the rare carbon-13 (C), which makes up about 1.109 percent of carbon atoms.\n\nBiochemical processes, of which photosynthesis is one, tend to preferentially incorporate the lighter C isotope. Thus ocean-dwelling photosynthesizers, both protists and algae, tend to be very slightly depleted in C, relative to the abundance found in the primary volcanic sources of Earth's carbon. Therefore, an ocean with photosynthetic life will have a lower C/C ratio within organic remains, and a higher ratio in corresponding ocean water. The organic component of the lithified sediments will remain very slightly, but measurably, depleted in C.\n\nDuring the proposed episode of snowball Earth, there are rapid and extreme negative excursions in the ratio of C to C. This is consistent with a deep freeze that killed off most or nearly all photosynthetic life—although other mechanisms, such as clathrate release, can also cause such perturbations. Close analysis of the timing of C 'spikes' in deposits across the globe allows the recognition of four, possibly five, glacial events in the late Neoproterozoic.\n\nBanded iron formations (BIF) are sedimentary rocks of layered iron oxide and iron-poor chert. In the presence of oxygen, iron naturally rusts and becomes insoluble in water. The banded iron formations are commonly very old and their deposition is often related to the oxidation of the Earth's atmosphere during the Palaeoproterozoic era, when dissolved iron in the ocean came in contact with photosynthetically produced oxygen and precipitated out as iron oxide.\n\nThe bands were produced at the tipping point between an anoxic and an oxygenated ocean. Since today's atmosphere is oxygen-rich (nearly 21% by volume) and in contact with the oceans, it is not possible to accumulate enough iron oxide to deposit a banded formation. The only extensive iron formations that were deposited after the Palaeoproterozoic (after 1.8 billion years ago) are associated with Cryogenian glacial deposits.\n\nFor such iron-rich rocks to be deposited there would have to be anoxia in the ocean, so that much dissolved iron (as ferrous oxide) could accumulate before it met an oxidant that would precipitate it as ferric oxide. For the ocean to become anoxic it must have limited gas exchange with the oxygenated atmosphere. Proponents of the hypothesis argue that the reappearance of BIF in the sedimentary record is a result of limited oxygen levels in an ocean sealed by sea-ice, while opponents suggest that the rarity of the BIF deposits may indicate that they formed in inland seas.\n\nBeing isolated from the oceans, such lakes could have been stagnant and anoxic at depth, much like today's Black Sea; a sufficient input of iron could provide the necessary conditions for BIF formation. A further difficulty in suggesting that BIFs marked the end of the glaciation is that they are found interbedded with glacial sediments. BIFs are also strikingly absent during the Marinoan glaciation.\n\nAround the top of Neoproterozoic glacial deposits there is commonly a sharp transition into a chemically precipitated sedimentary limestone or dolostone metres to tens of metres thick. These cap carbonates sometimes occur in sedimentary successions that have no other carbonate rocks, suggesting that their deposition is result of a profound aberration in ocean chemistry.\nThese cap carbonates have unusual chemical composition, as well as strange sedimentary structures that are often interpreted as large ripples.\nThe formation of such sedimentary rocks could be caused by a large influx of positively charged ions, as would be produced by rapid weathering during the extreme greenhouse following a snowball Earth event. The isotopic signature of the cap carbonates is near −5 ‰, consistent with the value of the mantle—such a low value is usually/could be taken to signify an absence of life, since photosynthesis usually acts to raise the value; alternatively the release of methane deposits could have lowered it from a higher value, and counterbalance the effects of photosynthesis.\n\nThe precise mechanism involved in the formation of cap carbonates is not clear, but the most cited explanation suggests that at the melting of a snowball Earth, water would dissolve the abundant from the atmosphere to form carbonic acid, which would fall as acid rain. This would weather exposed silicate and carbonate rock (including readily attacked glacial debris), releasing large amounts of calcium, which when washed into the ocean would form distinctively textured layers of carbonate sedimentary rock. Such an abiotic \"cap carbonate\" sediment can be found on top of the glacial till that gave rise to the snowball Earth hypothesis.\n\nHowever, there are some problems with the designation of a glacial origin to cap carbonates. Firstly, the high carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere would cause the oceans to become acidic, and dissolve any carbonates contained within—starkly at odds with the deposition of cap carbonates. Further, the thickness of some cap carbonates is far above what could reasonably be produced in the relatively quick deglaciations. The cause is further weakened by the lack of cap carbonates above many sequences of clear glacial origin at a similar time and the occurrence of similar carbonates within the sequences of proposed glacial origin. An alternative mechanism, which may have produced the Doushantuo cap carbonate at least, is the rapid, widespread release of methane. This accounts for incredibly low—as low as −48 ‰— values—as well as unusual sedimentary features which appear to have been formed by the flow of gas through the sediments.\n\nIsotopes of the element boron suggest that the pH of the oceans dropped dramatically before and after the Marinoan glaciation.\nThis may indicate a buildup of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, some of which would dissolve into the oceans to form carbonic acid. Although the boron variations may be evidence of extreme climate change, they need not imply a global glaciation.\n\nEarth's surface is very depleted in the element iridium, which primarily resides in the Earth's core. The only significant source of the element at the surface is cosmic particles that reach Earth. During a snowball Earth, iridium would accumulate on the ice sheets, and when the ice melted the resulting layer of sediment would be rich in iridium. An iridium anomaly has been discovered at the base of the cap carbonate formations, and has been used to suggest that the glacial episode lasted for at least 3 million years, but this does not necessarily imply a \"global\" extent to the glaciation; indeed, a similar anomaly could be explained by the impact of a large meteorite.\n\nUsing the ratio of mobile cations to those that remain in soils during chemical weathering (the chemical index of alteration), it has been shown that chemical weathering varied in a cyclic fashion within a glacial succession, increasing during interglacial periods and decreasing during cold and arid glacial periods. This pattern, if a true reflection of events, suggests that the \"snowball Earths\" bore a stronger resemblance to Pleistocene ice age cycles than to a completely frozen Earth.\n\nIn addition, glacial sediments of the Port Askaig Tillite Formation in Scotland clearly show interbedded cycles of glacial and shallow marine sediments. The significance of these deposits is highly reliant upon their dating. Glacial sediments are difficult to date, and the closest dated bed to the Portaskaig group is 8 km stratigraphically above the beds of interest. Its dating to 600 Ma means the beds can be tentatively correlated to the Sturtian glaciation, but they may represent the advance or retreat of a snowball Earth.\n\nThe initiation of a snowball Earth event would involve some initial cooling mechanism, which would result in an increase in Earth's coverage of snow and ice. The increase in Earth's coverage of snow and ice would in turn increase Earth's albedo, which would result in positive feedback for cooling. If enough snow and ice accumulates, run-away cooling would result. This positive feedback is facilitated by an equatorial continental distribution, which would allow ice to accumulate in the regions closer to the equator, where solar radiation is most direct.\n\nMany possible triggering mechanisms could account for the beginning of a snowball Earth, such as the eruption of a supervolcano, a reduction in the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases such as methane and/or carbon dioxide, changes in Solar energy output, or perturbations of Earth's orbit. Regardless of the trigger, initial cooling results in an increase in the area of Earth's surface covered by ice and snow, and the additional ice and snow reflects more Solar energy back to space, further cooling Earth and further increasing the area of Earth's surface covered by ice and snow. This positive feedback loop could eventually produce a frozen equator as cold as modern Antarctica.\n\nGlobal warming associated with large accumulations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere over millions of years, emitted primarily by volcanic activity, is the proposed trigger for melting a snowball Earth. Due to positive feedback for melting, the eventual melting of the snow and ice covering most of Earth's surface would require as little as a millennium.\n\nA tropical distribution of the continents is, perhaps counter-intuitively, necessary to allow the initiation of a snowball Earth.\nFirstly, tropical continents are more reflective than open ocean, and so absorb less of the Sun's heat: most absorption of Solar energy on Earth today occurs in tropical oceans.\n\nFurther, tropical continents are subject to more rainfall, which leads to increased river discharge—and erosion.\nWhen exposed to air, silicate rocks undergo weathering reactions which remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. These reactions proceed in the general form: Rock-forming mineral + CO + HO → cations + bicarbonate + SiO. An example of such a reaction is the weathering of wollastonite:\n\nThe released calcium cations react with the dissolved bicarbonate in the ocean to form calcium carbonate as a chemically precipitated sedimentary rock. This transfers carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, from the air into the geosphere, and, in steady-state on geologic time scales, offsets the carbon dioxide emitted from volcanoes into the atmosphere.\n\nA paucity of suitable sediments for analysis makes precise continental distribution during the Neoproterozoic difficult to establish. Some reconstructions point towards polar continents—which have been a feature of all other major glaciations, providing a point upon which ice can nucleate. Changes in ocean circulation patterns may then have provided the trigger of snowball Earth.\n\nAdditional factors that may have contributed to the onset of the Neoproterozoic snowball include the introduction of atmospheric free oxygen, which may have reached sufficient quantities to react with methane in the atmosphere, oxidizing it to carbon dioxide, a much weaker greenhouse gas, and a younger—thus fainter—Sun, which would have emitted 6 percent less radiation in the Neoproterozoic.\n\nNormally, as Earth gets colder due to natural climatic fluctuations and changes in incoming solar radiation, the cooling slows these weathering reactions. As a result, less carbon dioxide is removed from the atmosphere and Earth warms as this greenhouse gas accumulates—this 'negative feedback' process limits the magnitude of cooling. During the Cryogenian period, however, Earth's continents were all at tropical latitudes, which made this moderating process less effective, as high weathering rates continued on land even as Earth cooled. This let ice advance beyond the polar regions. Once ice advanced to within 30° of the equator, a positive feedback could ensue such that the increased reflectiveness (albedo) of the ice led to further cooling and the formation of more ice, until the whole Earth is ice-covered.\n\nPolar continents, due to low rates of evaporation, are too dry to allow substantial carbon deposition—restricting the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide that can be removed from the carbon cycle. A gradual rise of the proportion of the isotope carbon-13 relative to carbon-12 in sediments pre-dating \"global\" glaciation indicates that draw-down before snowball Earths was a slow and continuous process.\n\nThe start of snowball Earths are always marked by a sharp downturn in the δC value of sediments, a hallmark that may be attributed to a crash in biological productivity as a result of the cold temperatures and ice-covered oceans.\n\nIn January 2016, Gernon et al. proposed a \"shallow-ridge hypothesis\" involving the breakup of the supercontinent Rodinia, linking the eruption and rapid alteration of hyaloclastites along shallow ridges to massive increases in alkalinity in an ocean with thick ice cover. Gernon et al. demonstrated that the increase in alkalinity over the course of glaciation is sufficient to explain the thickness of cap carbonates formed in the aftermath of Snowball Earth events.\n\nGlobal temperature fell so low that the equator was as cold as modern-day Antarctica. This low temperature was maintained by the high albedo of the ice sheets, which reflected most incoming solar energy into space. A lack of heat-retaining clouds, caused by water vapor freezing out of the atmosphere, amplified this effect.\n\nThe carbon dioxide levels necessary to unfreeze Earth have been estimated as being 350 times what they are today, about 13% of the atmosphere. Since the Earth was almost completely covered with ice, carbon dioxide could not be withdrawn from the atmosphere by release of alkaline metal ions weathering out of siliceous rocks. Over 4 to 30 million years, enough and methane, mainly emitted by volcanoes but also produced by microbes converting organic carbon trapped under the ice into the gas, would accumulate to finally cause enough greenhouse effect to make surface ice melt in the tropics until a band of permanently ice-free land and water developed; this would be darker than the ice, and thus absorb more energy from the Sun—initiating a \"positive feedback\".\n\nDestabilization of substantial deposits of methane hydrates locked up in low-latitude permafrost may also have acted as a trigger and/or strong positive feedback for deglaciation and warming.\n\nOn the continents, the melting of glaciers would release massive amounts of glacial deposit, which would erode and weather. The resulting sediments supplied to the ocean would be high in nutrients such as phosphorus, which combined with the abundance of would trigger a cyanobacteria population explosion, which would cause a relatively rapid reoxygenation of the atmosphere, which may have contributed to the rise of the Ediacaran biota and the subsequent Cambrian explosion—a higher oxygen concentration allowing large multicellular lifeforms to develop. Although the positive feedback loop would melt the ice in geological short order, perhaps less than 1,000 years, replenishment of atmospheric oxygen and depletion of the levels would take further millennia.\n\nIt is possible that carbon dioxide levels fell enough for Earth to freeze again; this cycle may have repeated until the continents had drifted to more polar latitudes.\n\nMore recent evidence suggests that with colder oceanic temperatures, the resulting higher ability of the oceans to dissolve gases led to the carbon content of sea water being more quickly oxidized to carbon dioxide. This leads directly to an increase of atmospheric carbon dioxide, enhanced greenhouse warming of Earth's surface, and the prevention of a total snowball state.\n\nDuring millions of years, cryoconite would have accumulated on and inside the ice. Psychrophilic microorganisms, volcanic ash and dust from ice-free locations would settle on ice covering several million square kilometers. Once the ice started to melt, these layers would become visible and coloring the icy surfaces dark, helping to accelerate the process.\n\nUltraviolet light from the Sun would also produce hydrogen peroxide (HO) when it hits water molecules. Normally hydrogen peroxide is broken down by sunlight, but some would have been trapped inside the ice. When the glaciers started to melt, it would have been released in both the ocean and the atmosphere, where it was split into water and oxygen molecules, leading to an increase in atmospheric oxygen.\n\nWhile the presence of glaciers is not disputed, the idea that the entire planet was covered in ice is more contentious, leading some scientists to posit a \"slushball Earth\", in which a band of ice-free, or ice-thin, waters remains around the equator, allowing for a continued hydrologic cycle.\n\nThis hypothesis appeals to scientists who observe certain features of the sedimentary record that can only be formed under open water, or rapidly moving ice (which would require somewhere ice-free to move to). Recent research observed geochemical cyclicity in clastic rocks, showing that the \"snowball\" periods were punctuated by warm spells, similar to ice age cycles in recent Earth history. Attempts to construct computer models of a snowball Earth have also struggled to accommodate global ice cover without fundamental changes in the laws and constants which govern the planet.\n\nA less extreme snowball Earth hypothesis involves continually evolving continental configurations and changes in ocean circulation. Synthesised evidence has produced models indicating a \"slushball Earth\", where the stratigraphic record does not permit postulating complete global glaciations. Kirschivink's original hypothesis had recognised that warm tropical puddles would be expected to exist in a snowball earth.\n\nThe snowball Earth hypothesis does not explain the alternation of glacial and interglacial events, nor the oscillation of glacial sheet margins.\n\nThe argument against the hypothesis is evidence of fluctuation in ice cover and melting during \"snowball Earth\" deposits. Evidence for such melting comes from evidence of glacial dropstones, geochemical evidence of climate cyclicity, and interbedded glacial and shallow marine sediments. A longer record from Oman, constrained to 13°N, covers the period from 712 to 545 million years ago—a time span containing the Sturtian and Marinoan glaciations—and shows both glacial and ice-free deposition.\n\nThere have been difficulties in recreating a snowball Earth with global climate models. Simple GCMs with mixed-layer oceans can be made to freeze to the equator; a more sophisticated model with a full dynamic ocean (though only a primitive sea ice model) failed to form sea ice to the equator. In addition, the levels of necessary to melt a global ice cover have been calculated to be 130,000 ppm, which is considered by to be unreasonably large.\n\nStrontium isotopic data have been found to be at odds with proposed snowball Earth models of silicate weathering shutdown during glaciation and rapid rates immediately post-glaciation. Therefore, methane release from permafrost during marine transgression was proposed to be the source of the large measured carbon excursion in the time immediately after glaciation.\n\nNick Eyles suggest that the Neoproterozoic Snowball Earth was in fact no different from any other glaciation in Earth's history, and that efforts to find a single cause are likely to end in failure. The \"Zipper rift\" hypothesis proposes two pulses of continental \"unzipping\"—first, the breakup of the supercontinent Rodinia, forming the proto-Pacific Ocean; then the splitting of the continent Baltica from Laurentia, forming the proto-Atlantic—coincided with the glaciated periods.\nThe associated tectonic uplift would form high plateaus, just as the East African Rift is responsible for high topography; this high ground could then host glaciers.\n\nBanded iron formations have been taken as unavoidable evidence for global ice cover, since they require dissolved iron ions and anoxic waters to form; however, the limited extent of the Neoproterozoic banded iron deposits means that they may not have formed in frozen oceans, but instead in inland seas. Such seas can experience a wide range of chemistries; high rates of evaporation could concentrate iron ions, and a periodic lack of circulation could allow anoxic bottom water to form.\n\nContinental rifting, with associated subsidence, tends to produce such landlocked water bodies. This rifting, and associated subsidence, would produce the space for the fast deposition of sediments, negating the need for an immense and rapid melting to raise the global sea levels.\n\nA competing hypothesis to explain the presence of ice on the equatorial continents was that Earth's axial tilt was quite high, in the vicinity of 60°, which would place Earth's land in high \"latitudes\", although supporting evidence is scarce. A less extreme possibility would be that it was merely Earth's magnetic pole that wandered to this inclination, as the magnetic readings which suggested ice-filled continents depends on the magnetic and rotational poles being relatively similar. In either of these two situations, the freeze would be limited to relatively small areas, as is the case today; severe changes to Earth's climate are not necessary.\n\nThe evidence for low-latitude glacial deposits during the supposed snowball Earth episodes has been reinterpreted via the concept of inertial interchange true polar wander (IITPW).\nThis hypothesis, created to explain palaeomagnetic data, suggests that Earth's axis of rotation shifted one or more times during the general time-frame attributed to snowball Earth. This could feasibly produce the same distribution of glacial deposits without requiring any of them to have been deposited at equatorial latitude. While the physics behind the proposition is sound, the removal of one flawed data point from the original study rendered the application of the concept in these circumstances unwarranted.\n\nSeveral alternative explanations for the evidence have been proposed.\n\nA tremendous glaciation would curtail photosynthetic life on Earth, thus depleting atmospheric oxygen, and thereby allowing non-oxidized iron-rich rocks to form.\n\nDetractors argue that this kind of glaciation would have made life extinct entirely. However, microfossils such as stromatolites and oncolites prove that, in shallow marine environments at least, life did not suffer any perturbation. Instead life developed a trophic complexity and survived the cold period unscathed. Proponents counter that it may have been possible for life to survive in these ways:\n\nHowever, organisms and ecosystems, as far as it can be determined by the fossil record, do not appear to have undergone the significant change that would be expected by a mass extinction. With the advent of more precise dating, a phytoplankton extinction event which had been associated with snowball Earth was shown to precede glaciations by 16 million years. Even if life were to cling on in all the ecological refuges listed above, a whole-Earth glaciation would result in a biota with a noticeably different diversity and composition. This change in diversity and composition has not yet been observed—in fact, the organisms which should be most susceptible to climatic variation emerge unscathed from the snowball Earth.\n\nA snowball Earth has profound implications in the history of life on Earth. While many refugia have been postulated, global ice cover would certainly have ravaged ecosystems dependent on sunlight. Geochemical evidence from rocks associated with low-latitude glacial deposits have been interpreted to show a crash in oceanic life during the glacials.\n\nBecause about half of the oceans' water was frozen solid as ice, the remaining water would be twice as salty as it is today, lowering its freezing point. When the ice sheet melted, it would cover the oceans with a layer of hot freshwater up to 2 kilometres thick. Only after the hot surface water mixed with the colder and deeper saltwater did the sea return to a warmer and less salty state.\n\nThe melting of the ice may have presented many new opportunities for diversification, and may indeed have driven the rapid evolution which took place at the end of the Cryogenian period.\n\nThe Neoproterozoic was a time of remarkable diversification of multicellular organisms, including animals. Organism size and complexity increased considerably after the end of the snowball glaciations. This development of multicellular organisms may have been the result of increased evolutionary pressures resulting from multiple icehouse-hothouse cycles; in this sense, snowball Earth episodes may have \"pumped\" evolution. Alternatively, fluctuating nutrient levels and rising oxygen may have played a part. Another major glacial episode may have ended just a few million years before the Cambrian explosion.\n\nMechanistically, the effect of snowball Earth (in particular the later glaciations) on complex life is likely to have occurred through the process of kin selection. Organ-scale differentiation, in particular the terminal (irreversible) differentiation present in animals, requires the individual cell (and the genes contained within it) to \"sacrifice\" their ability to reproduce, so that the colony is not disrupted. From the short-term perspective of the gene, more offspring will be gained by causing the cell in which it is contained to ignore any signals received from the colony, and to reproduce at the maximum rate, regardless of the implications for the wider group. Today, this incentive explains the formation of tumours in animals and plants.\n\nIt has been argued that because snowball Earth would undoubtedly have decimated the population size of any given species, the extremely small populations that resulted would all have been descended from a small number of individuals (see founder effect), and consequently the average relatedness between any two individuals (in this case individual cells) would have been exceptionally high as a result of glaciations. Altruism is known to increase from rarity when relatedness (R) exceeds the ratio of the cost (C) to the altruist (in this case, the cell giving up its own reproduction by differentiating), to the benefit (B) to the recipient of altruism (the germ line of the colony, that reproduces as a result of the differentiation), i.e. R > C/B (see Hamilton's rule). The evolutionary pressure of the high relatedness in the context of a post-glaciation population boom may have been sufficient to overcome the reproductive cost of forming a complex animal, for the first time in Earth's history.\n\nThere is also a rival hypothesis which has been gaining currency in recent years: that early snowball Earths did not so much \"affect\" the evolution of life on Earth as result from it. In fact the two hypotheses are not mutually exclusive. The idea is that Earth's life forms affect the global carbon cycle and so major evolutionary events alter the carbon cycle, redistributing carbon within various reservoirs within the biosphere system and in the process temporarily lowering the atmospheric (greenhouse) carbon reservoir until the revised biosphere system settled into a new state. The Snowball I episode (of the Huronian glaciation 2.4 to 2.1 billion years) and Snowball II (of the Precambrian's Cryogenian between 580–850 million years and which itself had a number of distinct episodes) are respectively thought to be caused by the evolution of oxygenic photosynthesis and then the rise of more advanced multicellular animal life and life's colonization of the land.\n\nGlobal ice cover, if it existed, may—in concert with geothermal heating—have led to a lively, well mixed ocean with great vertical convective circulation.\n\nThere were three or four significant ice ages during the late Neoproterozoic. Of these, the Marinoan was the most significant, and the Sturtian glaciations were also truly widespread. Even the leading snowball proponent Hoffman agrees that the 350 thousand-year-long Gaskiers glaciation did not lead to global glaciation, although it was probably as intense as the late Ordovician glaciation. The status of the Kaigas \"glaciation\" or \"cooling event\" is currently unclear; some scientists do not recognise it as a glacial, others suspect that it may reflect poorly dated strata of Sturtian association, and others believe it may indeed be a third ice age. It was certainly less significant than the Sturtian or Marinoan glaciations, and probably not global in extent. Emerging evidence suggests that the Earth underwent a number of glaciations during the Neoproterozoic, which would stand strongly at odds with the snowball hypothesis.\n\nThe snowball Earth hypothesis has been invoked to explain glacial deposits in the Huronian Supergroup of Canada, though the palaeomagnetic evidence that suggests ice sheets at low latitudes is contested. The glacial sediments of the Makganyene formation of South Africa are slightly younger than the Huronian glacial deposits (~2.25 billion years old) and were deposited at tropical latitudes. It has been proposed that rise of free oxygen that occurred during the Great Oxygenation Event removed methane in the atmosphere through oxidation. As the Sun was notably weaker at the time, Earth's climate may have relied on methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, to maintain surface temperatures above freezing.\n\nIn the absence of this methane greenhouse, temperatures plunged and a snowball event could have occurred.\n\nBefore the theory of continental drift, glacial deposits in Carboniferous strata in tropical continents areas such as India and South America led to speculation that the Karoo Ice Age glaciation reached into the tropics. However, a continental reconstruction shows that ice was in fact constrained to the polar parts of the supercontinent Gondwana.\n\n\n\n"}
