{"id": "10618592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10618592", "title": "1947 Swiss Grand Prix", "text": "1947 Swiss Grand Prix\n\nThe 1947 Swiss Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Bremgarten on 8 June 1947.\n\n\"Drivers in bold advanced to the final\"\n\n\"Drivers in bold advanced to the final\"\n"}
{"id": "35939445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35939445", "title": "1984 State of the Union Address", "text": "1984 State of the Union Address\n\nThe 1984 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 98th United States Congress on January 25, 1984. The speech was the third State of the Union address of President Reagan's first term.\n\nThe speech lasted 43 minutes and 2 seconds and contained 4931 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.\n\nThe Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator Joe Biden (DE), Sen. David Boren (OK), Senator Carl M. Levin (MI), Senator Max S. Baucus (MT), Senator Robert Byrd (WV), Senator Claiborne Pell (RI), Senator Walter Huddleston (KY), Rep. Dante B. Fascell (FL), Rep. Tom Harkin (IA), Rep. William Gray (PA), House Speaker Thomas O’Neill (MA), and Rep. Barbara Boxer (CA).\n\nSamuel Pierce, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, served as the designated survivor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49102821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49102821", "title": "2015 Philmont Scout Ranch flash flood", "text": "2015 Philmont Scout Ranch flash flood\n\nOn the morning of June 27, 2015, heavy rain occurred in a great portion of the Scouting reserve Philmont Scout Ranch, which is near Cimarron, New Mexico, United States, causing a flash flood. The flood also affected some other nearby areas in Colfax County that morning, including highways and small towns around Philmont. One youth Scout, Alden Brock, who was situated in a campsite within the staff camp Indian Writings, drowned while being swept away by the flood and died. The flood also had a significant impact on many individual crews and treks and significantly damaged some campsites. The 2015 flash flood is the largest documented flood in the history of Philmont, and is the only flood at Philmont that has ever caused the death of a person.\n\nThroughout much of the summer of 2015, parts of New Mexico were experiencing a monsoon season, likely due to an El Niño. Throughout the season, there had been many other flash flood warnings across New Mexico due to large storms. Fifty years before the 2015 flood, on June 17, 1965, a similar flash flood had occurred at Philmont Scout Ranch.\n\nOn the night of June 26, the night before the flood, there were reports of hail and light rain in some areas of Philmont. On the early hours of the morning of June 27, the rain became heavier. At around 3:30 AM that morning, the National Weather Service issued a statement highlighting the threat of a flash flood in the area. At around 4:30 AM, a flash flood, with water levels of over 20 feet at the highest, occurred in several areas of Philmont. Some reported loud thunder and nearby lightning strikes before and during the flood.\n\nOutside of Philmont, there had been reports of mudflows and flooding along U.S. Route 64. Boulders also tumbled down from canyons in the Cimarron area, causing damage to and blockage of roads.\n\nThe morning of June 27, when the flood occurred, Crew 380 from Sacramento, California, was entering the third day of their twelve-day trek. They were situated at a campsite in Indian Writings near North Ponil Canyon that was about 20 feet above a small portion of Ponil Creek. Four members of Crew 380, including 13 year-old Alden Brock, the ranger assisting the crew, and two other youth Scouts were swept away by the flood from their campsite at about 4:30 am. The New Mexico State Police arrived at around 9:35 AM on a search and rescue mission. The two Scouts and the ranger were quickly located but not Brock. They found Brock dead at around 11:00 AM, approximately one mile away from the location from which he was originally swept. Crew 380 decided to finish their trek despite the incident in honor of Brock. Brock's death received nationwide attention, particularly from the Scouting community; fatalities are exceedingly rare at Philmont, and this was the only flood-related fatality in Philmont's history.\n\nShortly after the incident, Philmont staff notified the families of Scouts involved in the flood. Many crews at Philmont associated with the flood were temporarily withheld by Philmont staff until further notice because of logistical issues and because of significant damage to trails. Philmont and the New Mexico State Police also offered counseling for those involved in the flood.\n\nMany crews affected by the flood had lost many necessary items, such as tents, backpacks, and other camping gear. Several trails and bridges were also severely damaged by the flood.\n\nBecause of debris, mudflows, and road blockage, a large portion of U.S. Route 64 in New Mexico was closed for a period of nearly one full day.\n\nCrews affected by the flood were given the opportunity to choose whether they were to continue their treks or to leave Philmont. Some crews decided to leave Philmont, while many decided to continue their treks.\n\nThe New Mexico State Police investigated the flood further with the intent of providing more information to improve future preparedness, but came to no conclusions. The investigators believed that the incident could not have easily been prevented.\n\n"}
{"id": "151196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151196", "title": "Acute radiation syndrome", "text": "Acute radiation syndrome\n\nAcute radiation syndrome (ARS) is a collection of health effects that are present within 24 hours of exposure to high doses of ionizing radiation. It is also called radiation poisoning, radiation sickness and radiation toxicity.\n\nThe onset and type of symptoms depend on the amount of radiation exposure, both in any one dose, and cumulative exposure. Relatively smaller doses result in gastrointestinal effects, such as nausea and vomiting, and symptoms related to falling blood counts, and predisposition to infection and bleeding. Relatively larger doses can result in neurological effects, including but not limited to seizures, tremors, lethargy, and rapid death. Treatment of acute radiation syndrome is generally supportive with blood transfusions and antibiotics, with some extreme cases requiring more aggressive treatments, such as bone marrow transfusions.\n\nThe radiation causes cellular degradation due to damage to DNA and other key molecular structures within the cells in various tissues. This destruction, particularly because it affects the ability of cells to divide normally, in turn causes the symptoms. The symptoms can begin within one hour and may last for several months. The terms refer to acute medical problems rather than ones that develop after a prolonged period.\n\nSimilar symptoms may appear months to years after exposure as chronic radiation syndrome when the dose rate is too low to cause the acute form. Radiation exposure can also increase the probability of developing some other diseases, mainly different types of cancers. These later-developing diseases are sometimes also described as \"radiation sickness\", but they are never included in the term \"acute radiation syndrome\".\n\nClassically acute radiation syndrome is divided into three main presentations: hematopoietic, gastrointestinal, and neurological/vascular. These syndromes may or may not be preceded by a prodrome. The speed of onset of symptoms is related to radiation exposure, with greater doses resulting in a shorter delay in symptom onset. These presentations presume whole-body exposure and many of them are markers which are not valid if the entire body has not been exposed. Each syndrome requires that the tissue showing the syndrome itself be exposed. The hematopoietic syndrome requires exposure of the areas of bone marrow actively forming blood elements (i.e., the pelvis and sternum in adults). The neurovascular symptoms require exposure of the brain. The gastrointestinal syndrome is not seen if the stomach and intestines are not exposed to radiation. Some areas affected are:\n\n\nThe prodrome (early symptoms) of ARS typically includes nausea and vomiting, headaches, fatigue, fever, and a short period of skin reddening. These symptoms may occur at radiation doses as low as . These symptoms are common to many illnesses, and may not, by themselves, indicate acute radiation sickness.\n\nCutaneous radiation syndrome (CRS) refers to the skin symptoms of radiation exposure. Within a few hours after irradiation, a transient and inconsistent redness (associated with itching) can occur. Then, a latent phase may occur and last from a few days up to several weeks, when intense reddening, blistering, and ulceration of the irradiated site are visible. In most cases, healing occurs by regenerative means; however, very large skin doses can cause permanent hair loss, damaged sebaceous and sweat glands, atrophy, fibrosis (mostly keloids), decreased or increased skin pigmentation, and ulceration or necrosis of the exposed tissue. Notably, as seen at Chernobyl, when skin is irradiated with high energy beta particles, moist desquamation (peeling of skin) and similar early effects can heal, only to be followed by the collapse of the dermal vascular system after two months, resulting in the loss of the full thickness of the exposed skin. This effect had been demonstrated previously with pig skin using high energy beta sources at the Churchill Hospital Research Institute, in Oxford.\n\nAccording to the linear no-threshold model, any exposure to ionizing radiation, even at doses too low to produce any symptoms of radiation sickness, can induce cancer due to cellular and genetic damage. Under the assumption, survivors of acute radiation syndrome face an increased risk of developing cancer later in life. The probability of developing cancer is a linear function with respect to the effective radiation dose. In radiation-induced cancer, the speed at which the condition advances, the prognosis, the degree of pain, and every other feature of the disease are not believed to be functions of the radiation dosage.\n\nHowever, some studies contradict the linear no-threshold model. These studies indicate that some low levels of radiation do not increase cancer risk at all, and that there may exist a threshold dosage of ionizing radiation below which exposure should be considered safe. Nonetheless the 'no safe amount' assumption is the basis of US and most national regulatory policies regarding \"man-made\" sources of radiation.\n\nRadiation sickness is caused by exposure to a large dose of ionizing radiation (> ~0.1 Gy) over a short period of time. (> ~0.1 Gy/h) This might be the result of a nuclear explosion, a criticality accident, a radiotherapy accident as in Therac-25, a solar flare during interplanetary travel, misplacement of radioactive waste as in the 1987 Goiânia accident, human error in a nuclear reactor, or other possibilities. Acute radiation sickness due to ingestion of radioactive material is possible, but rare; examples include the 1987 contamination of Leide das Neves Ferreira and the 2006 poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko. \n\nAlpha and beta radiation have low penetrating power and are unlikely to affect vital internal organs from outside the body. Any type of ionizing radiation can cause burns, but alpha and beta radiation can only do so if radioactive contamination or nuclear fallout is deposited on the individual's skin or clothing. Gamma and neutron radiation can travel much further distances and penetrate the body easily, so whole-body irradiation generally causes ARS before skin effects are evident. Local gamma irradiation can cause skin effects without any sickness. In the early twentieth century, radiographers would commonly calibrate their machines by irradiating their own hands and measuring the time to onset of erythema.\n\nDuring spaceflight, particularly flights beyond low Earth orbit, astronauts are exposed to both galactic cosmic radiation (GCR) and solar particle event (SPE) radiation. Evidence indicates past SPE radiation levels which would have been lethal for unprotected astronauts. GCR levels which might lead to acute radiation poisoning are less well understood.\n\nThe most commonly used predictor of acute radiation symptoms is the whole-body absorbed dose. Several related quantities, such as the equivalent dose, effective dose, and committed dose, are used to gauge long-term stochastic biological effects such as cancer incidence, but they are not designed to evaluate acute radiation syndrome. To help avoid confusion between these quantities, absorbed dose is measured in units of grays (in SI, unit symbol Gy) or rads (in CGS), while the others are measured in sieverts (in SI, unit symbol Sv) or rems (in CGS). 1 rad = 0.01 Gy and 1 rem = 0.01 Sv.\n\nIn most of the acute exposure scenarios that lead to radiation sickness, the bulk of the radiation is external whole-body gamma, in which case the absorbed, equivalent and effective doses are all equal. There are exceptions, such as the Therac-25 accidents and the 1958 Cecil Kelley criticality accident, where the absorbed doses in Gy or rad are the only useful quantities.\n\nRadiotherapy treatments are typically prescribed in terms of the local absorbed dose, which might be 60 Gy or higher. The dose is fractionated (about 2 Gy per day for curative treatment), which allows for the normal tissues to undergo repair, allowing it to tolerate a higher dose than would otherwise be expected. The dose to the targeted tissue mass must be averaged over the entire body mass, most of which receives negligible radiation, to arrive at a whole-body absorbed dose that can be compared to the table above.\n\nHigh radiation doses can cause DNA damage. If left unrepaired, this damage can create serious and even lethal chromosomal aberrations. Ionizing radiation can produce reactive oxygen species, which are very damaging to DNA.\n\nIonizing radiation does direct damage to cells by causing localized ionization events, creating clusters of DNA damage. This damage includes loss of nucleobases and breakage of the sugar-phosphate backbone that binds to the nucleobases. Breakages can happen to one or both of the backbone strands. Single-stranded breakages are easier to repair than double-stranded breakages, because there is still an unbroken complementary strand to use as a template. The DNA organization at the level of histones, nucleosomes, and chromatin also affects its susceptibility to radiation damage.\n\nClustered damage, defined as at least two lesions within a helical turn, is especially harmful. While DNA damage happens frequently and naturally in the cell from endogenous sources, clustered damage is a unique effect of radiation exposure. Clustered damage takes longer to repair than isolated breakages, and is less likely to be repaired at all. Larger radiation doses are more prone to cause tighter clustering of damage, and closely localized damage is increasingly less likely to be repaired.\n\nSomatic mutations cannot be passed down from parent to offspring, but these mutations can propagate in cell lines within an organism. Radiation damage can also cause chromosome and chromatid aberrations, and their effect depends on what stage of the mitotic cycle the cell is currently in when the irradiation occurs. If the cell is in interphase, while it is still a single strand of chromatin, the damage will be replicated during the S1 phase of cell cycle, and there will be a break on both chromosome arms. Then the damage will be apparent in both daughter cells. If the irradiation occurs after replication, only one arm will bear the damage. This damage will only be apparent in one daughter cell. A damaged chromosome may cyclize, binding to another chromosome, or to itself.\n\nDiagnosis is typically made based on a history of significant radiation exposure and suitable clinical findings. An absolute lymphocyte count can give a rough estimate of radiation exposure. Time from exposure to vomiting can also give estimates of exposure levels if they are less than 1000 rad.\n\nThe longer that humans are subjected to radiation the larger the dose will be. The advice in the nuclear war manual entitled \"Nuclear War Survival Skills\" published by Cresson Kearny in the U.S. was that if one needed to leave the shelter then this should be done as rapidly as possible to minimize exposure.\n\nIn chapter 12, he states that \"[q]uickly putting or dumping wastes outside is not hazardous once fallout is no longer being deposited. For example, assume the shelter is in an area of heavy fallout and the dose rate outside is 400 roentgen (R) per hour, enough to give a potentially fatal dose in about an hour to a person exposed in the open. If a person needs to be exposed for only 10 seconds to dump a bucket, in this 1/360 of an hour he will receive a dose of only about 1 R. Under war conditions, an additional 1-R dose is of little concern.\" In peacetime, radiation workers are taught to work as quickly as possible when performing a task which exposes them to radiation. For instance, the recovery of a radioactive source should be done as quickly as possible.\n\nIncreasing distance from the radiation source reduces the dose according to the inverse-square law for a point source. Distance can sometimes be effectively increased by means as simple as handling a source with forceps rather than fingers. This could reduce erythema to the fingers, but the extra few centimeters distance from the body will give little protection from acute radiation syndrome.\nMatter attenuates radiation in most cases, so placing any mass (e.g., lead, dirt, sandbags, vehicles) between humans and the source will reduce the radiation dose. This is not always the case, however; care should be taken when constructing shielding for a specific purpose. For example, although high atomic number materials are very effective in shielding photons, using them to shield beta particles may cause higher radiation exposure due to the production of bremsstrahlung x-rays, and hence low atomic number materials are recommended. Also, using material with a high neutron activation cross section to shield neutrons will result in the shielding material itself becoming radioactive and hence more dangerous than if it were not present.\n\nThere are many types of shielding strategies which can be used to reduce the effects of radiation exposure. Internal contamination protective equipment such as respirators are used to prevent internal deposition as a result of inhalation and ingestion of radioactive material. Dermal protective equipment, which protects against external contamination, provides shielding to prevent radioactive material from being deposited on external structures. While these protective measures do provide a barrier from radioactive material deposition, they do not shield from externally penetrating gamma radiation. This leaves anyone exposed to penetrating gamma rays at high risk of Acute Radiation Syndrome.\n\nNaturally, shielding the entire body from high energy gamma radiation is optimal, but the required mass to provide adequate attenuation makes functional movement nearly impossible. In the event of a radiation catastrophe, medical and security personnel need mobile protection equipment in order to safely assist in containment, evacuation, and many other necessary public safety objectives.\n\nResearch has been done exploring the feasibility of partial body shielding, a radiation protection strategy which provides adequate attenuation to only the most radio-sensitive organs and tissues inside the body. Irreversible stem cell damage in the bone marrow is the first life-threatening effect of intense radiation exposure and therefore one of the most important bodily elements to protect. Due to the regenerative property of hematopoietic stem cells, it is only necessary to protect enough bone marrow to repopulate the exposed areas of the body with the shielded supply. This concept allows for the development of lightweight mobile radiation protection equipment, which provides adequate protection, deferring the onset of Acute Radiation Syndrome to much higher exposure doses. One example of such equipment is the 360 gamma, a radiation protection belt which applies selective shielding to protect the bone marrow stored in the pelvic area as well as other radio sensitive organs in the abdominal region without hindering functional mobility.\n\nMore information on bone marrow shielding can be found in the Health Physics Radiation Safety Journal article Selective Shielding of Bone Marrow: An Approach to Protecting Humans from External Gamma Radiation, or in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA)'s 2015 report: Occupational Radiation Protection in Severe Accident Management.\n\nWhere radioactive contamination is present, a gas mask, dust mask, or good hygiene practices may offer protection, depending on the nature of the contaminant. Potassium iodide (KI) tablets can reduce the risk of cancer in some situations due to slower uptake of ambient radioiodine. Although this does not protect any organ other than the thyroid gland, their effectiveness is still highly dependent on the time of ingestion which would protect the gland for the duration of a twenty-four-hour period. They do not prevent acute radiation syndrome as they provide no shielding from other environmental radionuclides.\n\nIf an intentional dose is broken up into a number of smaller doses, with time allowed for recovery between irradiations, the same total dose causes less cell death. Even without interruptions, a reduction in dose rate below 0.1 Gy/h also tends to reduce cell death. This technique is routinely used in radiotherapy.\n\nThe human body contains many types of cells and a human can be killed by the loss of a single type of cells in a vital organ. For many short term radiation deaths (3 days to 30 days), the loss of two important types of cells that are constantly being regenerated causes death. The loss of cells forming blood cells (bone marrow) and the cells in the digestive system (microvilli which form part of the wall of the intestines) is fatal.\n\nTreatment is supportive with the use of antibiotics, blood products, colony stimulating factors, and stem cell transplant as clinically indicated. Symptomatic measures may also be employed.\n\nThere is a direct relationship between the degree of the neutropenia that emerges after exposure to radiation and the increased risk of developing infection. Since there are no controlled studies of therapeutic intervention in humans, most of the current recommendations are based on animal research.\n\nThe treatment of established or suspected infection following exposure to radiation (characterized by neutropenia and fever) is similar to the one used for other febrile neutropenic patients. However, important differences between the two conditions exist. Individuals that develop neutropenia after exposure to radiation are also susceptible to irradiation damage in other tissues, such as the gastrointestinal tract, lungs and central nervous system. These patients may require therapeutic interventions not needed in other types of neutropenic patients. The response of irradiated animals to antimicrobial therapy can be unpredictable, as was evident in experimental studies where metronidazole and pefloxacin therapies were detrimental.\n\nAntimicrobials that reduce the number of the strict anaerobic component of the gut flora (i.e., metronidazole) generally should not be given because they may enhance systemic infection by aerobic or facultative bacteria, thus facilitating mortality after irradiation.\n\nAn empirical regimen of antimicrobials should be chosen based on the pattern of bacterial susceptibility and nosocomial infections in the affected area and medical center and the degree of neutropenia. Broad-spectrum empirical therapy (see below for choices) with high doses of one or more antibiotics should be initiated at the onset of fever. These antimicrobials should be directed at the eradication of Gram-negative aerobic bacilli ( i.e., Enterobacteriace, Pseudomonas ) that account for more than three quarters of the isolates causing sepsis. Because aerobic and facultative Gram-positive bacteria (mostly alpha-hemolytic streptococci) cause sepsis in about a quarter of the victims, coverage for these organisms may also be needed.\n\nA standardized management plane of febrile, neutropenic patients must be devised in each institution or agency. Empirical regimens must contain antibiotics broadly active against Gram-negative aerobic bacteria (quinolones: i.e., ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, a third- or fourth-generation cephalosporin with pseudomonal coverage: e.g., cefepime, ceftazidime, or an aminoglycoside: i.e. gentamicin, amikacin).\n\nAcute effects of ionizing radiation were first observed when Wilhelm Röntgen intentionally subjected his fingers to X-rays in 1895. He published his observations concerning the burns that developed, though he misattributed them to ozone, a free radical produced in air by X-rays. Other free radicals produced within the body are now understood to be more important. His injuries healed later.\n\nThe Radium Girls were female factory workers who contracted radiation poisoning from painting watch dials with self-luminous paint at the United States Radium factory in Orange, New Jersey, around 1917.\n\nIngestion of radioactive materials caused many radiation-induced cancers in the 1930s, but no one was exposed to high enough doses at high enough rates to bring on acute radiation syndrome. Marie Curie died of aplastic anemia caused by radiation, a possible early incident of acute radiation syndrome.\n\nThe atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki resulted in high acute doses of radiation to a large number of Japanese, allowing for greater insight into its symptoms and dangers. Red Cross Hospital Surgeon Terufumi Sasaki led intensive research into the syndrome in the weeks and months following the Hiroshima bombings. Dr Sasaki and his team were able to monitor the effects of radiation in patients of varying proximities to the blast itself, leading to the establishment of three recorded stages of the syndrome. Within 25–30 days of the explosion, the Red Cross surgeon noticed a sharp drop in white blood cell count and established this drop, along with symptoms of fever, as prognostic standards for Acute Radiation Syndrome. Actress Midori Naka, who was present during the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, was the first incident of radiation poisoning to be extensively studied. Her death on 24 August 1945, was the first death ever to be officially certified as a result of acute radiation syndrome (or \"Atomic bomb disease\").\n\nThere are two major databases that track radiation accidents: The American ORISE REAC/TS and the European IRSN ACCIRAD. REAC/TS shows 417 accidents occurring between 1944 and 2000, causing about 3000 cases of acute radiation syndrome, of which 127 were fatal. ACCIRAD lists 580 accidents with 180 ARS fatalities for an almost identical period. The two deliberate bombings are not included in either database, nor are any possible radiation-induced cancers from low doses. The detailed accounting is difficult because of confounding factors. ARS may be accompanied by conventional injuries such as steam burns, or may occur in someone with a pre-existing condition undergoing radiotherapy. There may be multiple causes for death, and the contribution from radiation may be unclear. Some documents may incorrectly refer to radiation-induced cancers as radiation poisoning, or may count all overexposed individuals as survivors without mentioning if they had any symptoms of ARS. The table below attempts to catalog some cases of ARS. Many of these incidents involved additional fatalities from other causes, such as cancer, which are excluded from this table.\n\nThousands of scientific experiments have been performed to study acute radiation syndrome in animals. There is a simple guide for predicting survival/death in mammals, including humans, following the acute effects of inhaling radioactive particles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58689511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58689511", "title": "Ain't Too Proud (musical)", "text": "Ain't Too Proud (musical)\n\nAin’t Too Proud: The Life and Times of The Temptations is a 2018 jukebox musical with music and lyrics by The Temptations and a book by Dominique Morisseau. Based on the story of The Temptations, the musical had a series of regional productions and is expected to begin previews at Broadway’s Imperial Theatre in February 2019.\n\nThe musical opened at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre in Berkeley, California, on August 31, 2017, for a limited engagement until November 5, 2017. The production was directed by Des McAnuff and choreographed by Sergio Trujillo. The production’s design team included scenery by Robert Brill, costumes by Paul Tazewell, lighting by Howell Binkley, sound by Steve Canyon Kennedy, and projections by Peter Nigrini. The musical was originally set to play through October 8; but was later extended through October 22; and ultimately through November 5. The musical was the highest-grossing production in the theatre’s history.\nFollowing its run at Berkeley Rep, the show moved to the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC where it ran from June 19, 2018 through July 22, 2018.\nFollowing its run at the Kennedy Center, the show moved to the Ahmanson Theatre in Los Angeles, California where it ran from August 21, 2018 through September 30, 2018.\nFollowing its run at the Ahmanson, the show moved to the Princess of Wales Theatre in Toronto, Ontario where it will run from October 11, 2018 through November 17, 2018.\n\nThe musical is expected to open on Broadway in 2019 at the Imperial Theatre, with previews beginning February 28, 2019 and an opening night set for March 21, 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "48922583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48922583", "title": "Battle of Dvin", "text": "Battle of Dvin\n\nThe battle of Dvin in 1045 was a failed attempt by the Byzantines under Constantine IX Monomachos to capture Dvin, then ruled by Abu'l-Aswar Shavur ibn Fadl. The Byzantines assembled a large force under the command of Michael Iasites and Constantine the Alan and allied with Armenians under the command of Vahram Pahlawuni and Liparit Orbelean. To defend the city, Abu'l-Aswar flooded the surrounding fields, limiting the attacking army's mobility and causing it to fall victim to defenders' arrows. The attackers were completely routed, and Vahram killed.\n"}
{"id": "31228305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31228305", "title": "Bids for the 1972 Winter Olympics", "text": "Bids for the 1972 Winter Olympics\n\nThe selection process for the 1972 Winter Olympics consisted of three bids, and saw Sapporo, Japan, be selected ahead of Banff, Canada; Lahti, Finland; and Salt Lake City, United States. The selection was made at the 64th IOC Session in Rome on 25 April 1966.\n"}
{"id": "28363272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28363272", "title": "Bird trapping", "text": "Bird trapping\n\nBird trapping techniques to capture wild birds include a wide range of techniques that have their origins in the hunting of birds for food. While hunting for food does not require birds to be caught alive, some trapping techniques capture birds without harming them and are of use in ornithology research. Wild birds may also be trapped for their display in captivity in zoological gardens or for keeping as a pet. Bird trapping was formerly unregulated, but to protect bird populations most countries have specific laws and regulations.\n\nBirds are lured into the vicinity of traps through the use of suitable habitat patches where the birds are known to visit. A specific location may be further modified by the provision of food, the use of decoy birds, the use of calls, or owls that may induce mobbing. Male birds of some species are used as decoys during the breeding seasons to challenge and beckon other males from nearby. Owls and their calls are often used to bring birds out of dense vegetations. The technique has also used by birdwatchers.\n\nAlmost all traps involve the use of food, water or decoys to attract birds within range and a mechanism for restricting the movement, injuring or killing birds that come into range. Food, water, decoy birds and call playback may be used to bring birds to the trap. The use of chemical sprays on crops or food can have more widespread effects and are not usually included in trapping techniques although there are some capture techniques that make use of bait with stupefying agents. The mechanism can be physical and non-lethal like a noose that tightens around the leg or lethal like in deadfall traps. Lethal techniques have been used for the control of birds considered as pests or can be used in the capture of birds for food. Traps can vary in their design to capture individual birds or large flocks and are adapted according to the habitat and behaviour of the birds. Trapping is regulated in most countries and needs to be operated by trained research personnel and failure to follow precautions can lead to injury or death of birds.\n\nIntroduced in 2011 Trap Door traps are humane box traps with a spring-loaded lid and feeding platform. The trap attracts target birds to feed and is triggered when the bird steps on a perch. The trap then drops the bird via gravity into a quiet, comfortable space until they are ready for live removal and relocation. There is no stress to the bird – no part of the trap makes contact nor does a human touch. These traps offer flexibility in bait and attraction techniques, can be outfitted with an internal catch bag for bird removal, and some include a means to send a notification to a phone or remote operator that a bird has been captured. Trap door traps are most often used for relocating small birds that have entered public buildings and structures such as warehouses, atrium and airport terminals.\n\nClap traps are spring-loaded frames with netting that are set up in two parts that come together rapidly when triggered by birds or manually controlled to enclose birds. They are usually used for ground birds but some variants are used in shallow water for the capture of waterfowl. Clap traps may be placed at a location habitually used by birds or can include luring devices.\n\nFunnel traps have a narrow entrance into which birds may be lured or driven and the entrance typically leads to larger holding pen or corral (which also gives them the name of corral trap). Funnel traps can be very large and a particularly well-known large scale form was devised in the German bird observatory at Heligoland and are termed as a Heligoland trap.\n\nFlocking birds are sometimes trapped using a large net which is thrown using a series of synchronized cannons or rockets that shoot a weight that drags a net behind it over the entire flock. These nets are also called rocket nets or boom nets. Capturing entire flocks can be an important tool for studies where large numbers of birds need to be examined (such as when monitoring for viruses) or when the birds are gregarious and social. These techniques are used especially in open habitats and are particularly suited for waders and waterbirds. After examination, ringing or other operations, the captured birds are usually released together rather than individually.\n\nMist nets are fine nets that are suitable for capturing birds in woodlands. The fine net is strung across trees so as to lie in the flight path of a bird. A bird flies into the nearly invisible net and falls to a fold at the bottom of the net where it usually gets entangled. These nets are used especially in bird ringing and are typically never left unsupervised. A bird that falls is quickly removed to avoid injury to the bird and to prevent it from falling prey to predators.\n\nBirds that walk on the ground can be captured using an array of mono-filament nooses. These are usually placed along favoured feeding, roosting or nest sites. Some raptors are trapped using live-bait and nooses on the cage holding the bait. This trap, also known as a \"bal-chatri\", has also been adapted to capture other birds such as shrikes. A \"noose carpet\" is another variant that consists of a number of tiny nooses on a mat.\n\nThe muscles of perching birds allow the toes to pull inwards with some force but there are no strong muscles to open them up. The application of sticky latex, \"birdlime\", often obtained from a local tree to favourite perches is used in many parts of the world to capture small birds. Other variations include the use of a long stick daubed with birdlime that is manually placed over the bird to cause its wings to get stuck. The sale and use of birdlime is illegal in many jurisdictions, but its use was widespread in older times.\n\nSome birds such as partridges and pheasants can be caught in the night by stunning them with bright light beams. Before the 19th Century, lanterns were used for hunting larks at night in Spain, Italy and England. In Italy the technique was known as lanciatoia and in England it was referred to as bat-fowling or low belling.\n\nA number of lethal techniques have been described for the killing of birds. Dead-fall traps, consisting of heavy slabs or branches, that fall onto the targets when they trigger it from below have been described from early times. A painting of such a trap for killing crows was made by Pieter Bruegel the Elder in 1565. Birds are particularly vulnerable at their nest and a variety of methods to capture nesting birds exist around the world. In 2005, after a 100-year-long prohibition, the French government permitted the reintroduction of the use of stone traps (\"tendelles\") in the Départements Lozère and Aveyron. Around the Mediterranean birds are caught in France, Italy, Spain, Greece, Cyprus, Malta and other countries by traps specifically during the migratory seasons when birds travel between Europe and Africa and back. In many countries trapping of wild birds is illegal and thus represents poaching. Cyprus is a stepping stone in the eastern European-African flyway. Although illegal for decades bird trapping is a black market enterprise with a profitable sale of birds to restaurants that cater to their patrons serving ambelopoulia. The spring 2010 led to the killing of over a quarter million of birds in Cyprus. Some birds with weak flight can be captured by chasing them. In India waterfowl were once captured by hunters who walked underwater with an earthen pot over their head. By walking up to floating ducks they could grab the legs of the duck. Empty pots were floated for a few days to make the birds accustomed to them.\n\nDucks, geese and other water birds can use their wings and bills to batter handlers and inflict potentially significant injuries. Loons, grebes and herons have long, sharp beaks, which they will stab at the face of a handler. These could inflict serious injury. To restrain a captured waterfowl, the handlers can grasp the base of the neck and hold the wings back and immobile, much like they would a domestic waterfowl. ()\n\nShore birds are not difficult to handle. After carefully extracting them from the net, small birds can be held around the body, with the fingers at the back of the head. While shore birds are not aggressive, they do have sharp beaks. Some caution should be used in keeping the bird's beak away from the handler's face, as is the case with any bird. ().\n\nRaptors are adapted carnivores. Their talons and beaks are designed to rend flesh from prey. They can cause serious injury to an unwary handler!\nUse of heavy leather gloves is recommended when handling raptors. Though a raptor's beak and talons can pierce it, it will provide some protection for the handler.\nA simple falconer's hood can reduce stress on the bird, while a tether at the metatarsi could bind the bird to a perch or block.\nRaptors can be captured by throwing a towel over the target, then wrapping it in the towel. This technique works best when the bird is on a flat surface. Another way is to wrap your hands around the body and wings of the bird, making sure to grab the feet and pull them up to the body from behind. Once you have the bird in hand, restrain the talons and head. There are different ways of doing this, and each is dictated by what you will be doing with the bird.\nOwls have a defensive posture where they will lie on their back and flail at a handler with their talons. Use a towel for the owl to claw at. A trapped raptor will clamp onto the first thing it can get its talons around. While it has the towel, its legs can be secured. The talons of a large raptor must be carefully controlled! If a handler is impaled by a talon, allow the bird to move away, or risk struggle and injury. Medium-sized raptors can be restrained by a set of nylon hose for long periods of time. ()\n\nPenguins: Though flightless, a penguins' wings can be used as flippers to beat handlers. Penguins must be grasped at the base of the head from behind, so as to avoid the sharp, fish catching beak. Another way to capture large penguins is to cover them in a trash can with a hole in the bottom.\nOstrich, emu, and cassowaries: Large members of this croup have pecking beaks and long legs used to kick. The cassowary in particular has a large claw on one toe that can inflict serious lacerations and punctures, or even disembowelment.\nEmus can be handled with a straddling technique, where one arm goes around the body and the other behind the legs. Ostriches and cassowaries, however, need to be moved to a smaller enclosure to be physically handled. One technique is to have a special enclosure that is open until the ostrich reaches a corner. Once in the corner, the wall of the enclosure will come to the side of the ostrich, trapping it in a narrow rectangular set of walls. Other restraint techniques include lowering and directing the head of the ostrich. This is said to discourage an ostrich from kicking forward.\nA large wooden shield can be used to get a cassowary or an ostrich into a holding enclosure without injury to the handler. This technique is favored when handling cassowaries due to their formidable claws and aggressive behavior.\nKiwis are relatively easy to handle. Hold the wings and legs from the back, hold close to the body, and keep their feet immobilized and the beak away from the handler. ()\n\nMost countries have laws prohibiting the use of traps for capturing birds. Professional bird trapping may be regulated by licenses and researchers requiring to trap bird will usually need to obtain permissions. Hunting to some extent may however be allowed and some birds may be exempted. Traps may thus be used under some circumstances such as in the control of birds considered as pests. Some international treaties aim to protect migratory species across national boundaries. Some organizations work to protect birds from trappers. Several organizations have emerged to identify and remove traps and help authorities. Among the volunteer organizations are Lega per l´Abolizione della Caccia (League for the Abolition of Hunting), Centro Soccorso Animali Modena (CSA) Modena (Fauna Rescue Centre Modena), World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF Italia), and LIPU (Lega Italiana Protezione Uccelli or Italian League for Bird Protection, Naples) One volunteer organization removed 150,000 illegal traps during a ten-year span.\n\nIn Europe, the 1979 Birds Directive and its amendments seeks to protect wild birds and allows hunting only within certain limits. According to the Directive use of traps, bird lime (glue), nets, live decoys and poison is forbidden at all times and birds are protected during breeding and spring migration. Malta joined the European Union in 2004 and obtained certain exemptions from the protective laws that apply to the membership states regarding wild birds. Trapping of several types of finches was allowed for five years until 2009 when the derogation was phased out. Malta had about 4,700 licensed trappers in 2007 who, by exemption from European protective laws, continue to trap quail, turtle doves, golden plovers and song thrushes. Further, illegal trapping continues to be a problem in Malta. In North America the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and its amendments protect wild birds.\n\nTrapping can devastate local bird populations and also impact migrants at critical stopover sites. In Malta, three local species have been extirpated by trappers and hunters—the peregrine falcon, the barn owl and the jackdaw. Jonathan Franzen has called Malta \"the most savagely bird-hostile place in Europe\". Trapping also affects migratory birds at important stopover sites such as the Maltese islands. However, one book claims that peregrine falcons have again started to breed successfully since 2009 in Malta and that the main hunting organisation openly speaks against illegal hunting and trapping. The author also suggests that claims by Birdlife are often exaggerated.\n\nA study of prehistoric kitchen middens suggests that hunting by humans may have contributed to the extinction of several bird species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23773039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23773039", "title": "Case competition", "text": "Case competition\n\nIn a case competition, participants strive to develop the best solution to a business or education-related case study within an allocated time frame, typically with teams of two or more individuals pitted against each other in a head-to-head or broader relative ranking. Teams deliver presentations for judges and, while competitions vary in composition, a standard format and purpose exists.\n\nThe case competition concept originated in the United States and originally included participants from domestic universities. The notion of expanding to include international competitors emerged later, with the concept eventually taking hold across North America and Western Europe. Today, a wide range of international competitions are hosted in various countries in North America, Europe, and Asia. International case competitions have also begun expanding beyond the undergraduate level, as competitions like the Wharton China Business Society International Case Competition offer high school divisions .\n\nThe Middle East & North Africa Regional Case Initiative (MENARCCI) at the American University of Beirut (AUB). MENARCCI's goal is to serve as a depository of all necessary knowledge about the case method, sources of cases and publishing outlets, and the links to all cases on the Region available on-line. In the Middle East, cases competitions are conducted by the American University of Beirut and the American University in Cairo.\n\nFormats vary according to a number of dimensions. The following dimensions are often used to classify and compare competitions: Host: corporate versus educational institution; Participant selection: \"by invitation\" versus \"by application\"; and, Level: undergraduate, graduate. Formats may vary along practical dimensions, including: Case specificity (whether the case has been written especially for the competition or not); Number of teams; Organization (student-run, professional etc.); Rules, e.g.:Time (common formats are 3-4 or 24 hours), Materials, Degree of access to expert advice (either from within the competition or externally, and electronically or face to face).\n\nSome competitions add complexity to create a more interesting challenge. For example, Ohio State University (OSU)'s Center For International Business Education And Research (CIBER), in its annual Case Challenge, created teams from the overall pool of participants, regardless of school, dissolving the usual school-based team format. For the Ohio State scenario, once the students are assigned to teams, a full day of team-building exercises is run for competitors.\n\nCompetitions can be internal to a business school, or they can involve teams from multiple schools. Sometimes the competition includes several rounds, with the final round typically judged by outside company executives (sometimes the panel consists of executives from the actual company in the case). For example, the University of Washington’s Foster School of Business' 2010 round of its Global Business Case Competition featured a customized case on the Boeing Company and Boeing executives acted as judges.\n\nParticipants exercise skills and knowledge on a \"real world\" case for an actual organization, with the support of representatives who can provide professional advice. Other competitions select an issue based on its degree of importance, and employ the competition as a means to both highlight the issue and create potential solutions through the efforts of the competitors. Participants can also be assessed as potential candidates for analysis-based jobs within the targeted companies.\n\nTeams in case competitions are tasked with assessing the situation facing the organization, analyzing available information, crafting a solution, and defending their recommendations. In general, teams adhere to a time limit and specific rules. Each team is judged independently, and the judges' decision is final, although a confidential summary evaluation is generally provided.\n"}
{"id": "3947300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3947300", "title": "Cavalcade (1933 film)", "text": "Cavalcade (1933 film)\n\nCavalcade is a 1933 American epic pre-Code drama film directed by Frank Lloyd. The screenplay by Reginald Berkeley and Sonya Levien is based on the 1931 play of the same title by Noël Coward. The film stars Diana Wynyard and Clive Brook.\n\nThe story presents a view of English life during the first quarter of the 20th century from New Year's Eve 1899 through New Year's Day 1933, from the point of view of well-to-do London residents Jane and Robert Marryot, their children, their close friends, and their servants. Several historical events affect the lives of the characters or serve as background for the film, including the Second Boer War, the death of Queen Victoria, the sinking of the \"RMS Titanic\", and World War I. Throughout the film, the passage of years is indicated by dates on title cards, with a Medieval cavalcade marching in the background.\n\nThe film won three Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director.\n\nOn the last day of 1899, Jane and Robert Marryot, an upper-class couple, return to their townhouse in a fashionable area of London before midnight, so they can keep their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast. Although Jane and Robert have been married for some years and have two young sons, Edward and Joey, they are still very much in love. Jane worries because Robert has joined the City of London Imperial Volunteers (CIV) as an officer, and will soon be leaving to serve in the Second Boer War, where Jane's brother is already fighting in the Siege of Mafeking. Downstairs, the Marryots' butler Alfred Bridges mixes punch for their toast, while Cook dons her finest outfit to attend the public outdoor celebrations. Alfred has joined the CIV as a private and is also leaving soon. His wife Ellen, the Marryots' maid, worries about what will become of her and their new baby Fanny if Alfred is killed or seriously injured, but he is confident despite the pessimistic predictions of Ellen's elderly mother, Mrs. Snapper. At midnight, the Marryot and Bridges families ring in the new century while Cook dances with other revelers in the street.\n\nShortly thereafter, Jane bids an emotional farewell to Robert at the dock when he boards the troop ship bound for Africa, while Ellen tearfully sees off Alfred, who is leaving on the same ship. While Robert is away, Jane's friend Margaret Harris keeps her company and gives her emotional support. Margaret's young daughter Edith plays Boer War games with Edward and Joey Marryot using toy soldiers and cannons, which distresses Jane. While Jane and Margaret are attending a comic operetta at the theatre to take Jane's mind off the war, the relief of Mafeking is announced from the stage, and the audience cheers. Robert and Alfred soon return home unharmed, to the delight of their families, and Robert is knighted for his service.\n\nUpon his arrival, Alfred announces to his wife and mother-in-law that he has bought his own pub with money partly provided by Robert, and he and Ellen will be leaving service and moving to a flat, along with Fanny and Mrs. Snapper. As the downstairs staff have a cup of tea to celebrate Alfred's return, they receive news of the death of Queen Victoria. Robert rides in the beginning part of her funeral procession and the family and staff watch it from their upstairs windows.\n\nA few years later, in 1908, Alfred has developed a drinking problem and is managing the pub poorly and getting behind on the family's rent due to spending the rent money on drink. Ellen and Fanny, now a schoolgirl, are embarrassed and put off by Alfred's drinking and slovenly appearance. Ellen carefully plans a genteel social evening when Jane Marryot and her son Edward, who is now in college at Oxford, pay a visit to the Bridges' flat. Ellen does not tell Alfred about the visit and lies to the Marryots that he can't attend due to a leg injury, but just as the Marryots are leaving, Alfred shows up drunk, acts rudely and destroys a doll that Jane had given Fanny, causing Fanny to run away into the street, where she distracts herself by dancing with some Pearlies. An angry Alfred chases Fanny, attacks the Pearlies, and then stumbles into the street where he is fatally run over by a horse-drawn fire engine.\n\nThe following year, on July 25, 1909, Ellen and Fanny Bridges encounter the Marryot family again at the seaside, where Ellen explains that she and Fanny are living off the proceeds from the pub, now owned by Ellen. Fanny has become a talented dancer and singer. Edward Marryot has fallen in love with his childhood playmate Edith Harris. The family witnesses the historic flight by Louis Blériot over the English Channel.\n\nThree years later, by April 1912, Edward and Edith have married and are spending their honeymoon on a luxurious four funneled ocean liner, which is dramatically revealed by a camera shot on a life preserver on board to be the ill-fated \" RMS Titanic\". Later scenes make it clear that Edward and Edith both perished in the sinking, although the sinking itself, their deaths, and their families' initial reaction to it are not shown, it is only briefly mentioned in later dialogue.\n\nTwo years later, in 1914, World War I breaks out. Robert and Joe Marryot both serve as officers, thinking the war will be over within a few months. While on leave, Joe happens upon Fanny Bridges, whom he remembers from their childhood, performing as a featured singer and dancer in a nightclub. He re-introduces himself to her, and they bond while witnessing a Zeppelin air raid on London from the rooftop. She later becomes the star of a theatrical production. Fanny and Joe fall in love and Joe, who miraculously manages to survive the next four years of the war despite all his fellow officers being killed in action, spends most of his leave time with her, unbeknownst to his parents. He finally proposes, but she hesitates to say yes due to the difference in their social classes, although she does love him. Just after armistice is announced in 1918, Ellen, who has found out about Fanny and Joe's love affair, goes to see Jane, reveals the affair to her, and demands that Joe marry Fanny when he returns. While a surprised and upset Jane is arguing with Ellen, Jane receives a telegram informing her that Joe has been killed in battle. Later, a grief-stricken Jane walks sadly through armistice celebrations in Trafalgar Square.\n\nFollowing the war, a montage shows daily life becoming even more chaotic and the social order being further disrupted, while some advocate that mankind work towards peace. The film ends on New Year's Day 1933, with Jane and Robert, now elderly, carrying on their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast to their past memories, as well as to the future.\n\nFox Movietone newsreel cameramen were sent to London to record the original stage production as a guide for the film adaptation.\n\nFrank Borzage was originally going to direct, but he departed in June 1932 to work on another project. Fox production head Winfield Sheehan decided to use a British director due to the film's setting, and Frank Lloyd was brought on board. Production took place from early October to November 29, 1932.\n\nThe film was one of the first to use the words \"damn\" and \"hell\", as in \"Hell of a lot\". These had been used in the play. There was concern at the Hays Office that this could set a precedent. Fox president Sidney Kent was quoted saying the mild profanity \"could not offend any person; and, after all, that was the real purpose of the Code. And as far as the use creating a precedent which might be followed by other producers is concerned, the best answer would be that anyone who could make a picture as good as \"Cavalcade\" might be justified in following the precedent.\"\n\nThe film premiered in New York City on January 5, 1933 but did not go into general theatrical release until April 15.\n\nThe film was the second most popular movie in the US in 1933. It made over US $1 million in the UK.\n\nIt ended up making an estimated profit of £2,500,000 during its initial theatrical release.\n\nMordaunt Hall of \"The New York Times\" called the film \"most affecting and impressive\" and added, \"In all its scenes there is a meticulous attention to detail, not only in the settings ... but also in the selection of players ... It is unfurled with such marked good taste and restraint that many an eye will be misty after witnessing this production.\"\n\nThe film currently holds a rating of 61% on the film review aggregating website Rotten Tomatoes with the site stating the critics' consensus as \"Though solidly acted and pleasant to look at, Cavalcade lacks cohesion, and sacrifices true emotion for mawkishness.\"\n\n\"Cavalcade\" won the Academy Award for Best Picture, Frank Lloyd won the Academy Award for Best Director, and the Academy Award for Best Art Direction went to William S. Darling. Diana Wynyard was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress but lost to Katharine Hepburn for \"Morning Glory\".\n\n\"Cavalcade\" was the first film produced by Fox Film Corporation to win the Best Picture Oscar, and the only one before it merged with 20th Century Pictures in 1935 to form 20th Century Fox.\n\nThe Academy Film Archive preserved \"Cavalcade\" in 2002.\n\nIn addition to several original compositions by Coward, more than fifty popular songs, national anthems, hymns, ballads, and topical tunes relevant to the years portrayed were used in the film. Songs appearing in the film include:\n\n\n\"Cavalcade\" was first released on VHS on January 1, 1998.\n\nWith the DVD and Blu-ray Disc releases of \"Wings\" on January 24, 2012, \"Cavalcade\" became the only Best Picture Oscar winner not available on a stand-alone DVD in Region 1. \"Cavalcade\" was initially released on DVD December 7, 2010, as part of the three-volume \"Twentieth Century Fox 75th Anniversary Collection\", a collection with a list price of nearly $500 (though commonly sold for less).\n\nThough 20th Century Fox had no plans to release \"Cavalcade\" separately in 2010, it was released separately on Blu-ray Disc in Region A on August 6, 2013 after it received the most write-in votes in a Fox-sponsored online poll. The Blu-ray edition is a combo pack also containing a DVD of the film. , the only official DVDs of the film sold in Region 1 are those found in the 80th Anniversary edition Blu-ray combo pack and the 75th Anniversary Collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43480302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43480302", "title": "Chopin (opera)", "text": "Chopin (opera)\n\nChopin is a four-act opera by Giacomo Orefice (1865–1922) to a libretto by Angiolo Orvieto, premiered in Milan in 1901.\n\nThe opera, which is \"a wildly inaccurate account\" of the life of Frédéric Chopin, is based entirely on his music, orchestrated by Orefice. The vocal score indicates the sources of the music, which include Chopin's sonatas, polonaises, mazurkas and nocturnes.\n\nThe overture is based on Chopin's \"Fantasy on Polish Airs\", Op. 13. Act I is set in a village in Poland at Christmas time. Chopin declares his love to Stella (who is, like all the opera's characters except Chopin himself, entirely fictional). In Act II, set in Paris, Elio tells a group of children about the history and struggles of Poland, inspiring Chopin to fly to the piano and write a nocturne. Chopin's new love, Flora, is also present. Act III is set in Majorca, where the real Chopin spent the winter of 1838-9 with George Sand. In this version Chopin is there with Flora and their daughter, who dies after a thunderstorm and is mourned by the local population. In Act IV, Stella arrives in Paris from Poland just in time for Chopin to expire in her arms.\n\nThe opera was premiered in the Teatro Lirico, Milan, on 25 November 1901. The Musical Times reported that \"this rather curious lyrical stage-work\" was \"a distinct success.\" A production in Paris in 1905 was not well received by the critic Arthur Pougin, who commented \"It is an idea, perhaps ingenious but certainly bizarre, to create an opera score by borrowing the elements of various works by a genius who, throughout his life, never dreamt of writing for the theatre\", and concluded that Orifece had committed \"a sacrilege\". A modern assessment suggests that the opera is \"in essence a kitsch contribution to the last vestiges of late 19th-century romanticized bohemianism and to the Italian 'scapigliatura'\".\n\nThe opera was performed at the Opera Wrocławska in Wrocław, Poland, in 2010 as part of the Chopin bicentenary celebrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31681846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31681846", "title": "Code name Geronimo controversy", "text": "Code name Geronimo controversy\n\nThe code name Geronimo controversy came about after media reports that the U.S. operation to kill Osama bin Laden used the code name \"Geronimo\" to refer to either the overall operation, to fugitive bin Laden himself or to the act of killing or capturing bin Laden.\n\nPress reports claimed that \"Geronimo\" was used in the raid to refer to bin Laden himself, but this was later contradicted by official sources. The official mission code name was \"Operation Neptune Spear\" (a reference to the trident in the SEAL insignia), with \"Jackpot\" as the code name for bin Laden as an individual and \"Geronimo\" as the code word for bin Laden's capture or death. In the book \"No Easy Day\", former SEAL Matt Bissonnette, who participated in the mission, states that \"Geronimo\" was the code name for bin Laden.\n\nThe historical Geronimo was a leader of the Chiricahua Apache who defied the U.S. government and eluded capture.\n\n\"Channel 4 News\" said \"According to some analysis today, the U.S. military chose the code name because bin Laden, like Geronimo, had evaded capture for years. If they were trying to avoid mythmaking, it seems they chose the wrong code name.\" Once bin Laden was killed, one of the commanders reported \"Geronimo E-KIA\", meaning that the mission had ended with the \"Enemy Killed In Action\".\n\nMany Native Americans objected to the use of the name \"Geronimo\". \"It's how deeply embedded the 'Indian as enemy' is in the collective mind of America,\" said Suzan Shown Harjo, president of the Washington, D.C.-based Morning Star Institute, a Native American advocacy group. \"There is little doubt [the] use of a leader like Geronimo to refer to bin Laden is ill-advised,\" wrote Keith Harper, an attorney and member of the Cherokee Nation, in an email with a reporter for \"The Washington Post\".\n\nThe leaders of several Native American Indian tribes urged President Obama to retroactively rename the military code name \"Geronimo\" used by the SEALS during the killing of bin Laden. Fort Sill Apache Tribal Chairman Jeff Houser sent a letter to President Obama, decrying the linking of \"the legendary Apache warrior\" to a \"mass murder and cowardly terrorist...Unlike the coward Osama bin Laden, Geronimo faced his enemy in numerous battles and engagements. He is perhaps one of the greatest symbols of Native American resistance in the history of the United States.\" Questions to the White House about the code name were referred to the Defense Department, which stated no disrespect was meant and that code names are generally chosen at random. Navajo Nation President Ben Shelly told \"The Washington Times\" that \"Even though the operation to capture or kill bin Laden is over...the name should be changed so that children don't encounter it in the history books.\"\n\nThe Onondaga Council of Chiefs said that the use of code name Geronimo perpetuates negative stereotypes about Indians. Nez Perce member Loretta Tuell, staff director and chief counsel for the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, said \"These inappropriate uses of Native American icons and cultures are prevalent throughout our society, and the impacts to Native and non-Native children are devastating\". Jeff Houser, chairman of Geronimo's Fort Sill Apache Tribe, wrote a letter to President Obama saying \"We are quite certain that the use of the name Geronimo as a code for Osama bin Laden was based on misunderstood and misconceived historical perspectives of Geronimo and his armed struggle against the United States and Mexican governments\".\n\nGeronimo's great-grandson, Vietnam War veteran Harlyn Geronimo, issued a statement requesting explanations and apologies.\n\nOn 8 May 2011, President Obama was interviewed by \"60 Minutes\" saying \"There was a point before folks had left, before we had gotten everybody back on the helicopter and were flying back to base, where they said Geronimo has been killed, and Geronimo was the code name for bin Laden.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32673788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32673788", "title": "Committee for Investigation of National Aviation Accidents", "text": "Committee for Investigation of National Aviation Accidents\n\nThe Committee for Investigation of National Aviation Accidents () is the aircraft accident investigation agency of Poland regarding state and military aircraft. It is distinct from the State Commission on Aircraft Accidents Investigation, which investigates civil aviation accidents. , Minister of the Interior Jerzy Miller heads the agency.\n\nThe committee was established according to Paragraph 1, Article 140 of the Aviation Law of 3 July 2002, by virtue of the decision of the Minister of Defense.\n\nThe committee conducted the Polish investigation of the 2010 Polish Air Force Tu-154 crash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49607351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49607351", "title": "Copenhagen Architecture Festival x FILM", "text": "Copenhagen Architecture Festival x FILM\n\nCopenhagen Architecture Festival (CAFx) was founded in 2014 in Copenhagen, Denmark at the initiative of Josephine Michau, Peter Møller Rasmussen and Mads Farsø.\nThe title of the festival's first year (2014) was Copenhagen Architecture Festival x Film with a strong focus on the film medium. In 2015, the festival expanded to exhibitions, master classes and seminars as well to a further festival edition in Aarhus: Aarhus Architecture Festival (AAFx). The number of visitors doubled from 4.000 visitors in 2014 to 8.000 visitors in 2015.\n\nSince then, the festival has grown in both scope and ambition. In 2016, the program covered more than 150 events, providing a wide range of approaches to architecture in three cities, as now the festival also runs in Aalborg: Aalborg Architecture Festival (ALAFx). Furthermore, the festival organized its first Summer School on Film and Architecture in August 2016 in Aarhus, inviting 6 architects and artists to run 3 masterclasses.\n\nIn 2017, all three festival editions CAFx, AAFx and ALAFx took place simultaneously under the headline \"Architecture As Identity\", which had a span of over 150 events.\nAs well as last year, CAFx is organizing a Summer School on Film and Landscape, taking place in August 2017 on the Danish west coast of Lemvig.\n\nThe goal of the festival is to extend the idea of what architecture can be and how it seeps everywhere in human lives. All of the cities have a strong architectural identity and local ambassadors co-curating and conducting the program.\nThe festival is led by festival director Josephine Michau and strategic director Mads Farsø.\nThe main supporters of the Festival are Realdania, Dreyers Fond, Københavns Kommune, Det Danske Filminstitut and Statens Kunstfond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26934639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26934639", "title": "Croatian–Ottoman wars", "text": "Croatian–Ottoman wars\n\nCroatian–Ottoman Wars (, ) can refer to one of the several conflicts between the Kingdom of Croatia (in Kingdom of Hungary-Croatia and in Habsburg Monarchy) and the Ottoman Empire:\nThe Kingdom of Croatia-Hungary gradually lost most of its territory on the eastern Adriatic coast to the Ottomans, leaving only the possessions of the Republic of Venice in Dalmatia, for whom the Croats took part in the Ottoman–Venetian Wars. Of particular note for the history of Dalmatia was the Morean War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32976338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32976338", "title": "Daegu International Opera Festival", "text": "Daegu International Opera Festival\n\nDaegu International Opera Festival(DIOF) is a festival that is held in Daegu, South Korea. The festival takes place in mid October. However, the 16th DIOF commenced in September. Alongside grand opera performances, there are a host of programs in DIOF such as back stage tour, square opera, Opera Odessey(free lectures regarding opera), pre-concert, lucky seats etc.\n\nDaegu International Opera Festival(DIOF) is the representative music festival in South Korea and is the largest International Opera Festival in Asia. The festival has accomplished an enormous growth since its commencement. DIOF continuously endeavors to culturally enlighten people. Moreover, it functions as an Asian cultural hub by bringing various high quality foreign productions. DIOF may be the only chance to enjoy a lot of rare combinations of renowned artists. \n\n\nhttp://www.daeguoperahouse.org\n"}
{"id": "186177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186177", "title": "Diwali", "text": "Diwali\n\nDiwali, Deepavali or Dipavali is the Hindu festival of lights, which is celebrated every autumn in the northern hemisphere (spring in southern hemisphere). One of the most popular festivals of Hinduism, Diwali symbolises the spiritual \"victory of light over darkness, good over evil and knowledge over ignorance.\" Light is a metaphor for knowledge and consciousness. During the celebration, temples, homes, shops and office buildings are brightly illuminated. The preparations, and rituals, for the festival typically last five days, with the climax occurring on the third day coinciding with the darkest night of the Hindu lunisolar month Kartika. In the Gregorian calendar, the festival generally falls between mid-October and mid-November.\n\nIn the lead-up to Diwali, celebrants will prepare by cleaning, renovating, and decorating their homes and workplaces. During the climax, revellers adorn themselves in their finest clothes, illuminate the interior and exterior of their homes with \"diyas\" (oil lamps or candles), offer \"puja\" (worship) to Lakshmi, the goddess of prosperity and wealth, light fireworks, and partake in family feasts, where \"mithai\" (sweets) and gifts are shared. Diwali is also a major cultural event for the Hindu and Jain diaspora from the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe five-day festival originated in the Indian subcontinent and is mentioned in early Sanskrit texts. The names of the festive days of Diwali, as well as the rituals, vary by region. Diwali is usually celebrated eighteen days after the Dussehra (Dasara, Dasain) festival with Dhanteras, or the regional equivalent, marking the first day of the festival when celebrants prepare by cleaning their homes and making decorations on the floor, such as \"rangoli\". The second day is \"Choti Diwali\", or equivalent in north India, while for Hindus in the south of India it is Diwali proper. Western, central, eastern and northern Indian communities observe Diwali on the third day and the darkest night of the traditional month. In some parts of India, the day after Diwali is marked with the \"Govardhan Puja\" and \"Diwali Padva\", which is dedicated to the relationship between wife and husband. Some Hindu communities mark the last day as Bhai Dooj, which is dedicated to the bond between sister and brother, while other Hindu and Sikh craftsmen communities mark this day as \"Vishwakarma Puja\" and observe it by performing maintenance in their work spaces and offering prayers.\n\nSome other faiths in India also celebrate their respective festivals alongside Diwali. The Jains observe their own Diwali, which marks the final liberation of Mahavira, the Sikhs celebrate Bandi Chhor Divas to mark the release of Guru Hargobind from a Mughal Empire prison, while Newar Buddhists, unlike other Buddhists, celebrate Diwali by worshiping Lakshmi. The festival of Diwali is an official holiday in Fiji, Guyana, India, Malaysia (except Sarawak), Mauritius, Myanmar, Nepal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\n\"Diwali\" () or \"Divali\" is from the Sanskrit \"dīpāvali\" meaning \"row or series of lights\". The conjugated term is derived from the Sanskrit words \"dīpa\", \"lamp, light, lantern, candle, that which glows, shines, illuminates or knowledge\" and \"āvali\", \"a row, range, continuous line, series\".\n\nThe five-day celebration is observed every year in early autumn after the conclusion of the summer harvest and coincides with the new moon, known as the \"amāsvasya\" – the darkest night of the Hindu lunisolar calendar. The festivities begin two days before \"amāsvasya\", on Dhanteras, and extends two days after, the second day of the first fortnight of the month of Kartik. According to Indologist, Constance Jones who specialises in religious sociology, this night ends the lunar month of Ashwin and starts the month of Kartika. The darkest night is the apex of the celebration and coincides with the second half of October or early November in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe festival climax is on the third day and is called the main Diwali. It is an official holiday in about a dozen countries, while the other festive days are regionally observed as either public or optional restricted holidays in India. In Nepal, it is also a multiday festival, although the days and rituals are named differently, with the climax being called the \"Tihar\" festival by Hindus and \"Swanti\" festival by Buddhists.\n\nThe Diwali festival is likely a fusion of harvest festivals in ancient India. It is mentioned in Sanskrit texts such as the \"Padma Purana\", the \"Skanda Purana\" both of which were completed in the second half of the 1st millennium CE. The \"diyas\" (lamps) are mentioned in Skanda Kishore Purana as symbolising parts of the sun, describing it as the cosmic giver of light and energy to all life and which seasonally transitions in the Hindu calendar month of Kartik. \n\nKing Harsha refers to Deepavali, in the 7th century Sanskrit play \"Nagananda\", as \"Dīpapratipadotsava\" (\"dīpa\" = light, \"pratipadā\" = first day, \"utsava\" = festival), where lamps were lit and newly engaged brides and grooms received gifts. Rajasekhara referred to Deepavali as \"Dipamalika\" in his 9th century \"Kavyamimamsa\", wherein he mentions the tradition of homes being whitewashed and oil lamps decorated homes, streets and markets in the night.\n\nDiwali was also described by numerous travellers from outside India. In his 11th century memoir on India, the Persian traveller and historian Al Biruni wrote of Deepavali being celebrated by Hindus on the day of the New Moon in the month of Kartika. The Venetian merchant and traveller Niccolò de' Conti visited India in the early 15th-century and wrote in his memoir, \"on another of these festivals they fix up within their temples, and on the outside of the roofs, an innumerable number of oil lamps... which are kept burning day and night\" and that the families would gather, \"clothe themselves in new garments\", sing, dance and feast. The 16th-century Portuguese traveler Domingo Paes wrote of his visit to the Hindu Vijayanagara Empire, where \"Dipavali\" was celebrated in October with householders illuminating their homes, and their temples, with lamps.\n\nIslamic historians of the Delhi Sultanate and the Mughal Empire era also mentioned Diwali and other Hindu festivals. A few, notably the Mughal emperor Akbar, welcomed and participated in the festivities, whereas others banned such festivals as Diwali and Holi, as Aurangzeb did in 1665.\n\nPublications from the British colonial era also made mention of Diwali, such as the note on Hindu festivals published in 1799 by Sir William Jones, a philologist known for his early observations on Sanskrit and Indo-European languages. In his paper on \"The Lunar Year of the Hindus\", Jones, then based in Bengal, noted four of the five days of Diwali in the autumn months of \"Aswina-Cartica\" [sic] as the following: \"Bhutachaturdasi Yamaterpanam\" (2nd day), \"Lacshmipuja dipanwita\" (the day of Diwali), \"Dyuta pratipat Belipuja\" (4th day), and \"Bhratri dwitiya\" (5th day). The \"Lacshmipuja dipanwita\", remarked Jones, was a \"great festival at night, in honor of Lakshmi, with illuminations on trees and houses\".\n\nSanskrit inscriptions in stone and copper mentioning Diwali, occasionally alongside terms such as \"Dipotsava\", \"Dipavali\", \"Divali\" and \"Divalige\", have been discovered at numerous sites across India. Examples include a 10th-century Rashtrakuta empire copper plate inscription of Krsna III (939–967 CE) that mentions \"Dipotsava\", and a 12th-century mixed Sanskrit-Kannada Sinda inscription discovered in the Isvara temple of Dharwad in Karnataka where the inscription refers to the festival as a \"sacred occasion\". According to Lorenz Franz Kielhorn, a German Indologist known for translating many Indic inscriptions, this festival is mentioned as \"Dipotsavam\" in verses 6 and 7 of the Ranganatha temple Sanskrit inscription of the 13th-century Kerala Hindu king Ravivarman Samgramadhira. Part of the inscription, as translated by Kielhorn, reads: \"the auspicious festival of lights which disperses the most profound darkness, which in former days was celebrated by the kings Ila, Kartavirya and Sagara, (...) as Sakra (Indra) is of the gods, the universal monarch who knows the duties by the three Vedas, afterwards celebrated here at Ranga for Vishnu, resplendent with Lakshmi resting on his radiant lap.\"\n\nJain inscriptions, such as the 10th-century Saundatti inscription about a donation of oil to Jinendra worship for the Diwali rituals, speak of \"Dipotsava\". Another early 13th-century Sanskrit stone inscription, written in the Devanagari script, has been found in the north end of a mosque pillar in Jalore, Rajasthan evidently built using materials from a demolished Jain temple. The inscription states that Ramachandracharya built and dedicated a drama performance hall, with a golden cupola, on Diwali.\n\nDiwali is celebrated by Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and Newar Buddhists, although for each faith it marks different historical events and stories, but nonetheless the festival represents the same symbolic victory of light over darkness, knowledge over ignorance, and good over evil.\n\nThe religious significance of Diwali varies regionally within India. The festival is associated with a diversity of deities, traditions, and symbolism. These variations, states Constance Jones, may reflect diverse local autumn harvest festivals that fused into one pan-Hindu festival with a shared spiritual significance and ritual grammar while retaining local traditions.\n\nOne tradition links the festival to legends in the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\", where Diwali is the day Rama, Sita, Lakshmana and Hanuman reached Ayodhya after a period in exile and Rama's army of good defeated demon king Ravana's army of evil.\n\nMany Hindus associate the festival with Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and prosperity, and wife of Vishnu. According to Pintchman, the start of the 5-day Diwali festival is stated in some popular contemporary sources as the day Goddess Lakshmi was born from Samudra manthan, the churning of the cosmic ocean of milk by the Devas (gods) and the Asuras (demons) – a Vedic legend that is also found in several Puranas such as the \"Padma Purana\", while the night of Diwali is when Lakshmi chose and wed Vishnu. Along with Lakshmi, who is representative of Vaishnavism, Ganesha, the elephant-headed son of Parvati and Shiva of Shaivism tradition, is remembered as one who symbolises ethical beginnings and the remover of obstacles.\n\nHindus of eastern India associate the festival with the goddess Durga, or her fierce avatar Kali (Shaktism), who symbolises the victory of good over evil. Hindus from the Braj region in northern India, parts of Assam, as well as southern Tamil and Telugu communities view Diwali as the day the god Krishna overcame and destroyed the evil demon king Narakasura, in yet another symbolic victory of knowledge and good over ignorance and evil.\n\nTrade and merchant families and others also offer prayers to Saraswati, who embodies music, literature and learning and Kubera, who symbolizes book-keeping, treasury and wealth management. In western states such as Gujarat, and certain northern Hindu communities of India, the festival of Diwali signifies the start of a new year.\n\nMythical tales shared on Diwali vary widely depending on region and even within Hindu tradition, yet all share a common focus on righteousness, self-inquiry and the importance of knowledge, which, according to Lindsey Harlan, an Indologist and scholar of Religious Studies, is the path to overcoming the \"darkness of ignorance\". The telling of these myths are a reminder of the Hindu belief that good ultimately triumphs over evil.\n\nJeffrey Long, a scholar of Jain and Hindu studies, states that in Jain tradition, Diwali is celebrated in observance of \"Mahavira Nirvana Divas\", the physical death and final nirvana of Mahavira. The Jain Diwali celebrated in many parts of India has similar practices to the Hindu Diwali, such as the lighting of lamps and the offering of prayers to Lakshmi. However, the focus of the Jain Diwali remains the dedication to Mahavira. This practice of lighting lamps first began on the day of Mahavira's death in 527 BCE according to the Jain tradition, where 18 kings who had gathered for Mahavira's final teachings issued a proclamation that lamps be lit in remembrance of the \"great light, Mahavira\". This traditional belief of the origin of Diwali, and its significance to Jains, is reflected in their historic artworks such as paintings.\n\nSikhs celebrate Bandi Chhor Divas in remembrance of the release of Guru Hargobind from the Gwalior Fort prison by the Mughal emperor, Jahangir, and the day he arrived at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. According to J.S. Grewal, a scholar of Sikhism and Sikh history, Diwali in the Sikh tradition is older than the sixth Guru Hargobind legend. Guru Amar Das, the third Guru of the Sikhs, built a well in Goindwal with eighty-four steps and invited Sikhs to bathe in its sacred waters on Baisakhi and Diwali as a form of community bonding. Over time, these spring and autumn festivals became the most important of Sikh festivals and holy sites such as Amritsar became focal points for annual pilgrimages. The festival of Diwali, according to Ray Colledge, highlights three events in Sikh history: the founding of the city of Amritsar in 1577, the release of Guru Hargobind from the Mughal prison, and the day of Bhai Mani Singh's martyrdom in 1738 as a result of his failure to pay a fine for trying to celebrate Diwali and thereafter refusing to convert to Islam.\n\nDiwali is not a festival for most Buddhists, with the exception of the Newar people of Nepal who revere various deities in the Vajrayana Buddhism and celebrate Diwali by offering prayers to Lakshmi. Newar Buddhists in Nepalese valleys also celebrate the Diwali festival over five days, in much the same way, and on the same days, as the Nepalese Hindu Diwali-Tihar festival. According to some observers, this traditional celebration by Newar Buddhists in Nepal, through the worship of Lakshmi and Vishnu during Diwali, is not syncretism but rather a reflection of the freedom within Mahayana Buddhist tradition to worship any deity for their worldly betterment.\n\nDiwali is a five-day festival, the height of which is celebrated on the third day coinciding with the darkest night of the lunar month. During the festival, Hindus, Jains and Sikhs illuminate their homes, temples and work spaces with diyas, candles and lanterns \nHindus, in particular, have a ritual oil bath at dawn on each day of the festival. Diwali is also marked with fireworks and the decoration of floors with rangoli designs. Food is a major focus with families partaking in feasts and sharing mithai. The festival is an annual homecoming and bonding period not only for families, but also for communities and associations, particularly those in urban areas, which will organise activities, events and gatherings. Many towns organise community parades and fairs with parades or music and dance performances in parks. Some Hindus, Jains and Sikhs will send Diwali greeting cards to family near and far during the festive season, occasionally with boxes of Indian confectionery.\n\nDiwali is a post-harvest festival celebrating the bounty following the arrival of the monsoon in the subcontinent. Depending on the region, celebrations include prayers before one or more Hindu deities, the most common being Lakshmi. According to David Kinsley, an Indologist and scholar of Indian religious traditions particularly in relation to goddess worship, Lakshmi symbolizes three virtues: wealth and prosperity, fertility and abundant crops, as well as good fortune. Merchants seek Lakshmi's blessings in their ventures and will ritually close their accounting year during Diwali. Fertility motifs appear in agricultural offerings brought before Lakshmi by farming families, who give thanks for the recent harvests and seek her blessings for prosperous future crops. A symbolic piece of traditional fertilizer, a dried piece of cow dung, is included in the ensemble in Odisha and Deccan region villages, an agricultural motif according to Kinsley. Another aspect of the festival is remembering the ancestors.\n\nRituals and preparations for Diwali begin days or weeks in advance, typically after the festival of Dusshera that precedes Diwali by about 20 days. The festival formally begins two days before the night of Diwali, and ends two days thereafter. Each day has the following rituals and significance:\n\n\"Dhanteras\", derived from \"Dhan\" meaning wealth and \"teras\" meaning thirteenth, marks the thirteenth day of the dark fortnight of Kartik and the beginning of Diwali. On this day, many Hindu's clean their homes and business premises. They install \"diyas\", small earthen oil-filled lamps that they light up for the next five days, near Lakshmi and Ganesha iconography. Women and children decorate doorways within homes and offices with rangoli, colourful designs made from rice flour, flower petals and coloured sand, while the boys and men decorate the roofs and walls of family homes, markets and temples. The day also marks a major shopping day to purchase new utensils, home equipment, jewelry, firecrackers and other items. On the evening of Dhanteras, families offer prayers (\"puja\") to Lakshmi and Ganesha, and lay offerings of puffed rice, candy toys, rice cakes and \"batashas\" (hollow sugar cakes).\n\nAccording to Tracy Pintchman, Dhanteras is a symbol of annual renewal, cleansing and an auspicious beginning for the next year. The term \"Dhan\" for this day also alludes to the Ayurvedic icon Dhanvantari, the god of health and healing, who is believed to have emerged from the \"churning of cosmic ocean\" on the same day as Lakshmi. Some communities, particularly those active in Ayurvedic and health-related professions, pray or perform havan rituals to Dhanvantari on Dhanteras.\n\nChoti Diwali, also known as \"Naraka Chaturdasi\", is the second day of festivities coinciding with the fourteenth day of the second fortnight of the lunar month. The term \"choti\" means little, while \"Naraka\" means hell and \"Chaturdasi\" means \"fourteenth\". The day and its rituals are interpreted as ways to liberate any souls from their suffering in \"Naraka\", or hell, as well as a reminder of spiritual auspiciousness. For some Hindus, it is a day to pray for the peace to the manes, or deified souls of one's ancestors and light their way for their journeys in the cyclic afterlife. A mythological interpretation of this festive day is the destruction of the asura (demon) Narakasura by Krishna, a victory that frees 16,000 imprisoned princesses kidnapped by Narakasura.\n\nNaraka Chaturdasi is also a major day for purchasing festive foods, particularly sweets. A variety of sweets are prepared using flour, semolina, rice, chickpea flour, dry fruit pieces powders or paste, milk solids (\"mawa\" or \"khoya\") and clarified butter (\"ghee\"). According to Goldstein, these are then shaped into various forms, such as laddus, barfis, halvah, kachoris, shrikhand and sandesh, rolled and stuffed delicacies, such as maladu, susiyam, pottukadalai. Sometimes these are wrapped with edible silver foil (vark). Confectioners and shops create Diwali-themed decorative displays, selling these in large quantities, which are stocked for home celebrations to welcome guests and as gifts. Families also prepare homemade delicacies for the main Diwali day. Choti Diwali is also a day for visiting friends, business associates and relatives, and exchanging gifts.\n\nThis day is commonly celebrated as Diwali in Tamil Nadu, Goa, and Karnataka. Some South Indian Hindus receive an oil massage and then take a ritual bath. Many visit their favorite Hindu temple.\n\nThe third day is the height of the festival, and coincides with the last day of the dark fortnight of the lunar month. This is the day when Hindu, Jain and Sikh temples and homes are aglow with lights, thereby making it the \"festival of lights\".\n\nThe youngest members in the family visit their elders, such as grandparents and other senior members of the community, on this day. Small business owners give gifts or special bonus payments to their employees between Dhanteras and Diwali. Shops either do not open or close early on this day allowing employees to enjoy family time. Shopkeepers and small operations perform \"puja\" rituals in their office premises. Unlike some other festivals, the Hindu typically do not fast on Diwali, rather they feast and share the bounties of the season at their workplaces, community centres, temples and homes.\nAs the evening approaches, celebrants will wear new clothes or their best outfits, teenage girls and women in particular wear saris and jewelry. At dusk, family members gather for the Lakshmi puja, although prayers will also be offered to other deities, such as Ganesha, Saraswati, Rama, Lakshmana, Sita, Hanuman, or Kubera. The lamps from the puja ceremony are then used to light more earthenware lamps, which are placed in rows along the parapets of temples and houses, while some \"diyas\" are set adrift on rivers and streams. After the \"puja\", people go outside and celebrate by lighting up \"patakhe\" (fireworks) together, and then share a family feast and \"mithai\" (sweets, desserts).\n\nThe \"puja\" and rituals in the Bengali Hindu community focus on Kali, the goddess of war, instead of Lakshmi. According to Rachel Fell McDermott, a scholar of South Asian, particular Bengali, studies, in Bengal during Navaratri (Dussehra elsewhere in India) the \"Durga puja\" is the main focus, although in the eastern and north eastern states the two are synonymous, but on Diwali the focus is on the puja dedicated to Kali. These two festivals likely developed in tandem over their recent histories, states McDermott. Textual evidence suggests that Bengali Hindus worshipped Lakshmi before the colonial era, and that the Kali puja is a more recent phenomenon. Contemporary Bengali celebrations mirror those found elsewhere, with teenage boys playing with fireworks and the sharing of festive food with family, but with the Shakti goddess Kali as the focus.\nOn the night of Diwali, rituals across much of India are dedicated to Lakshmi to welcome her into their cleaned homes and bring prosperity and happiness for the coming year. While the cleaning, or painting, of the home is in part for goddess Lakshmi, it also signifies the ritual \"reenactment of the cleansing, purifying action of the monsoon rains\" that would have concluded in most of the Indian subcontinent. Vaishnava families recite Hindu legends of the victory of good over evil and the return of hope after despair on Diwali night, where the main characters may include Rama, Krishna, Vamana or one of the avatars of Vishnu, the divine husband of Lakshmi. At dusk, lamps placed earlier in the inside and outside of the home are lit up to welcome Lakshmi. Family members light up firecrackers, which some interpret as a way to ward off all evil spirits and the inauspicious, as well as add to the festive mood. According to Pintchman, who quotes Raghavan, this ritual may also be linked to the tradition in some communities of paying respect to ancestors. Earlier in the season's fortnight, some welcome the souls of their ancestors to join the family for the festivities with the \"Mahalaya\". The Diwali night's lights and firecrackers, in this interpretation, represent a celebratory and symbolic farewell to the departed ancestral souls.\n\nThe celebrations and rituals of the Jains and the Sikhs are similar to those of the Hindus where social and community bonds are renewed. Major temples and homes are decorated with lights, festive foods shared with all, friends and relatives remembered and visited with gifts.\n\nThe day after Diwali is the first day of the bright fortnight of the luni-solar calendar. It is regionally called as Annakut (heap of grain), Padwa, Goverdhan puja, Bali Pratipada, Bali Padyami, Kartik Shukla Pratipada and other names. According to one tradition, the day is associated with the story of Bali's defeat at the hands of Vishnu. In another interpretation, it is thought to reference the legend of Parvati and her husband Shiva playing a game of \"dyuta\" (dice) on a board of twelve squares and thirty pieces, Parvati wins. Shiva surrenders his shirt and adornments to her, rendering him naked. According to Handelman and Shulman, as quoted by Pintchman, this legend is a Hindu metaphor for the cosmic process for creation and dissolution of the world through the masculine destructive power, as represented by Shiva, and the feminine procreative power, represented by Parvati, where twelve reflects the number of months in the cyclic year, while thirty are the number of days in its lunisolar month.\nThis day ritually celebrates the bond between the wife and husband, and in some Hindu communities, husbands will celebrate this with gifts to their wives. In other regions, parents invite a newly married daughter, or son, together with their spouses to a festive meal and give them gifts.\n\nIn some rural communities of the north, west and central regions, the fourth day is celebrated as Govardhan puja, honouring the legend of the Hindu god Krishna saving the cowherd and farming communities from incessant rains and floods triggered by Indra's anger, which he accomplished by lifting the Govardhan mountain. This legend is remembered through the ritual of building small mountain-like miniatures from cow dung. According to Kinsley, the ritual use of cow dung, a common fertilizer, is an agricultural motif and a celebration of its significance to annual crop cycles.\n\nThe agricultural symbolism is also observed on this day by many Hindus as Annakut, literally \"mountain of food\". Communities prepare over one hundred dishes from a variety of ingredients, which is then dedicated to Krishna before shared among the community. Hindu temples on this day prepare and present \"mountains of sweets\" to the faithful who have gathered for \"darshan\" (visit). In Gujarat, Annakut is the first day of the new year and celebrated through the purchase of essentials, or \"sabras\" (literally, \"good things in life\"), such as salt, offering prayers to Krishna and visiting temples.\n\nThe last day of the festival is called \"Bhai duj\" (literally \"brother's day\"), \"Bhai tilak\" or \"Bhai Phonta\". It celebrates the sister-brother bond, similar in spirit to Raksha Bandhan but it is the brother that travels to meet the sister and her family. This festive day is interpreted by some to symbolize Yama's sister Yamuna welcoming Yama with a \"tilaka\", while others interpret it as the arrival of Krishna at his sister's, Subhadra, place after defeating Narakasura. Subhadra welcomes him with a \"tilaka\" on his forehead.\n\nThe day celebrates the sibling bond between brother and sister. On this day the womenfolk of the family gather, perform a puja with prayers for the well being of their brothers, then return to a ritual of feeding their brothers with their hands and receiving gifts. According to Pintchman, in some Hindu traditions the women recite tales where sisters protect their brothers from enemies that seek to cause him either bodily or spiritual harm. In historic times, this was a day in autumn when brothers would travel to meet their sisters, or invite their sister's family to their village to celebrate their sister-brother bond with the bounty of seasonal harvests.\n\nThe artisan Hindu and Sikh community celebrates the fourth day as the Vishwakarma puja day. Vishwakarma is the presiding Hindu deity for those in architecture, building, manufacturing, textile work and crafts trades. The looms, tools of trade, machines and workplaces are cleaned and prayers offered to these livelihood means.\n\nDuring the season of Diwali, numerous rural townships and villages host \"melas\", or fairs, where local producers and artisans trade produce and goods. A variety of entertainments are usually available for inhabitants of the local community to enjoy. The womenfolk, in particular, adorn themselves in colourful attire and decorate their hands with henna. Such events are also mentioned in Sikh historical records. In the modern day, \"Diwali mela\" are held at college, or university, campuses or as community events by members of the Indian diaspora. At such events a variety of music, dance and arts performances, food, crafts and cultural celebrations are featured.\n\nDiwali marks a major shopping period in India, and is comparable to the Christmas period in terms of consumer purchases and economic activity. It is traditionally a time when households purchase new clothing, home refurbishments, gifts, gold, jewelry, and other large purchases particularly as the festival is dedicated to Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and prosperity, and such purchases are considered auspicious. According to Rao, Diwali is one of the major festivals where rural Indians spend a significant portion of their annual income, and is a means for them to renew their relationships and social networks. Other goods that are bought in substantial quantities during Diwali include confectionery and fireworks. In 2013, about of fireworks were sold to merchants for the Diwali season, an equivalent retail value of about according to The Times of India. ASSOCHAM, a trade organization in India, forecasted that online shopping alone to be over over the 2017 Diwali season. About two thirds of Indian households, according to the ASSOCHAM forecast, would spend between and to celebrate Diwali in 2017.\n\nDiwali has increasingly attracted cultural exchanges, becoming occasions for politicians and religious leaders worldwide to meet Hindu or Indian origin citizens, diplomatic staff or neighbors. Many participate in other socio-political events as a symbol of support for diversity and inclusiveness. The Catholic dicastery Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue, founded as Secretariat for non-Christians by Pope Paul VI, began sending official greetings and Pope's message to the Hindus on Diwali in the mid-1990s.\n\nMany governments encourage or sponsor Diwali-related festivities in their territories. For example, the Singaporean government, in association with the Hindu Endowment Board of Singapore, organizes many cultural events during Diwali every year. National and civic leaders such as Prince Charles have attended Diwali celebrations at prominent Hindu temples in the UK, such as the Swaminarayan Temple in Neasden, using the occasion to highlight contributions of the Hindu community to British society. Since 2009, Diwali has been celebrated every year at 10 Downing Street, the residence of the British Prime Minister.\n\nDiwali was first celebrated in the White House by George W. Bush in 2003 and was given official status by the United States Congress in 2007. Barack Obama became the first president to personally attend Diwali at the White House in 2009. On the eve of his first visit to India as President of the United States, Obama released an official statement sharing his best wishes with \"those celebrating Diwali\".\n\nEvery year during Diwali, Indian forces approach their Pakistani counterparts at the border bearing gifts of traditional Indian confectionery, a gesture that is returned in kind by the Pakistani soldiers who give Pakistani sweets to the Indian soldiers.\n\nThe tradition of annual Diwali fireworks has caused widespread coverage in Indian media, where debate has centred on air quality within Indian cities in autumn and winter and the role the fireworks play. On 9 October 2017, the Supreme Court of India banned the sale, but not use, of fireworks in Delhi during the Diwali season, with the assumption that banning the use of fireworks would substantially improve the air quality of Delhi. Critics stated that the ruling was judicial overreach and a bias against Hindu culture, while supporters stated that it would be beneficial to public health.\n\nScholars have stated that many factors contribute to the poor air quality in Delhi, and northern India, that accompanies the harvest festival of Diwali. According to Jethva and others, the post-monsoon custom is to prepare the crop fields by deliberately burning the residual stubble between October and November. As crop productivity per hectare has increased with mechanised harvesting, this has led to the practice becoming more widespread in the northern and northwestern regions of India in the months when Diwali is observed. The smoke from the burning of the fields is carried by seasonal winds over the floodplain, where it is inverted by the colder winds and spread throughout the region for much of the winter. Other contributors to the poor air quality include daily vehicular and industrial activity along with the burning of other biomass.\n\nAccording to Shivani, the PM levels in 2015 and 2016 did rise over Diwali, but these higher levels were \"a result of contribution from fireworks on the Diwali night, trans-regional movement of pollutants due to crop residue burning, low wind speed, and high humidity\". They also concluded that the contribution of the festival fireworks could lead to a 1.3% increase in the non-carcinogenic hazard index. Other studies have stated that the fireworks of Diwali produce particulates and pollutants with a decay-life time of about one day.\n\nThe use of fireworks also causes an increase in the number of burn injuries in India during Diwali. One particular firework called \"anar\" (fountain) has been found to be responsible for 65% of such injuries, with adults being the typical victims. Most of the injuries sustained are Group I type burns (minor) requiring only outpatient care.\n\nThe prayers vary widely by region of India. An example vedic prayer from Brhadaranyaka Upanishad celebrating lights is the Pavamana Mantra:\n<poem>\nAsato ma sat gamaya | (असतो मा सद्गमय ।)\nTamaso ma jyotir gamaya | (तमसो मा ज्योतिर्गमय ।)\nMṛtyor ma amṛtam gamaya | (मृत्योर्मा अमृतं गमय ।)\nOm shanti shanti shantihi || (ॐ शान्तिः शान्तिः शान्तिः ॥)\n</poem>\n\nTranslation:\n<poem>\nFrom untruth lead us to Truth.\nFrom darkness lead us to Light.\nFrom death lead us to Immortality.\nOm Peace, Peace, Peace.\n</poem>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7661053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7661053", "title": "Exploding Plastic Inevitable", "text": "Exploding Plastic Inevitable\n\nThe Exploding Plastic Inevitable, sometimes simply called Plastic Inevitable or EPI, was a series of multimedia events organized by Andy Warhol between 1966 and 1967, featuring musical performances by The Velvet Underground and Nico, screenings of Warhol's films, and dancing and performances by regulars of Warhol's Factory, especially Mary Woronov and Gerard Malanga. \"Andy Warhol's Exploding Plastic Inevitable\" is also the title of an 18-minute film by Ronald Nameth with recordings from one week of performances of the shows which were filmed in Chicago, Illinois, in 1966. In December 1966 Warhol included a one-off magazine called \"The Plastic Exploding Inevitable\" as part of the \"Aspen\" No. 3 package.\n\nThe \"Exploding Plastic Inevitable\" had its beginnings in an event staged on January 13, 1966, at a dinner for the New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry. This event, called \"Up-Tight\", included performances by the Velvet Underground and Nico, along with Malanga and Edie Sedgwick as dancers and Barbara Rubin as a performance artist. Inaugural shows were held at the Dom in New York City in April 1966, advertised in \"The Village Voice\" as follows: \"The Silver Dream Factory Presents The Exploding Plastic Inevitable with Andy Warhol/The Velvet Underground/and Nico.\" Shows were also held in \"The Gymnasium\" in New York and in various cities throughout the United States.\n\nAndy Warhol's lights engineer Danny Williams pioneered many innovations that have since become standard practice in rock music light shows. From May 27–29 the EPI played The Fillmore in San Francisco, where Williams built a light show including stroboscopes, slides and film projections onstage. At Bill Graham's request he was soon to come back and build more. Film maker Jonas Mekas (who pioneered film projections during concerts at New York's Cinematheque), Andy Warhol and Danny Williams' influential ideas contributed much to the legendary Fillmore Auditorium's prestige and were also used at the Fillmore East and Fillmore West, both opening in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "47113871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47113871", "title": "Floriade 1972", "text": "Floriade 1972\n\nFloriade 1972 was a garden festival held in Amsterdam, Netherlands following its recognition by the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE). The 1972 exposition was the fifth edition of the international horticultural exposition organised under the auspices of the Association of International Horticultural Producers (AIPH) and the second Floriade in the Netherlands. The first Amsterdam Floriade lasted from March 30 to October 1, 1972.\n\nThe exposition was held at the newly created Amstelpark and Beatrix Park. The landscaped grounds at Amstelpark covered 700.000m². Beatrix Park, part of the Amsterdam RAI Exhibition and Convention Centre and a portion of the embankment on which later the ring road south and the Amsterdam RAI railway station were built, was part of the Floriade. The sites were connected by a cable car and carts. A narrow gauge railway and Ferris wheel were also built at Amstelpark.\nAfter the closure of the Floriade, much of the amenities that were built for the event remained at Amstelpark. These included the Amstel train (a narrow-gauge railway ), a maze, a rose garden, an orangery, the Glass House, greenhouses, a miniature golf course, the Rhododendron Valley, The Abandoned land, Galerie Papillon Park and a large playground for children.\n\n"}
{"id": "15833445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15833445", "title": "Galicia–Volhynia Wars", "text": "Galicia–Volhynia Wars\n\nGalicia–Volhynia Wars were several wars fought in the years 1340–1392 over the succession in the Principality of Galicia–Volhynia (in modern Poland and Ukraine). After Boleslaw-Yuri II was poisoned by local nobles in 1340, both Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Kingdom of Poland advanced claims over the principality. After a prolonged conflict, Galicia–Volhynia was divided between Poland (Galicia) and Lithuania (Volhynia) and the principality ceased to exist as an independent state. Poland acquired a territory of approximately with 200,000 inhabitants.\n\nBrothers Andrew and Lev II died ca. 1322, leaving no male successor in Galicia–Volhynia. Instead of promoting his son Liubartas (who was married to Andrew's daughter) and causing a war with Poland, Gediminas of Lithuania compromised with Władysław I of Poland. Both parties agreed to install fourteen-year-old Boleslaw-Yuri II, nephew of Lev and Andrew. Boleslaw-Yuri was a son of Trojden I of Masovia from the Piast dynasty, a cousin of Władysław I and nephew of Gediminas' son-in-law Wenceslaus of Płock. To strengthen the compromise, Boleslaw was betrothed to Eufemija, daughter of Gediminas. Boleslaw was poisoned in April 1340 by local nobles who resented growing Polish and Bohemian influence in the court. Boleslaw did not have an heir and his death upset fragile power balance in the region.\n\nWithin days of Boleslaw's murder, Casimir III of Poland invaded the principality to save Polish merchants and Catholic residents from attacks in Lviv. In June 1340, Casimir returned with a larger army. After four weeks he reached an agreement with local nobles and their leader Dmytro Dedko: in return for their services, local nobles would enjoy protection from the Polish king. However, the agreement was short-lived. The data is sparse, but it seems that Galicia–Volhynia was divided between the Lithuanians (Liubartas ruled in Volhynia and its chief city Volodymyr-Volynskyi) and local nobles (Detko ruled Galicia). During the winter 1340–1341, the Golden Horde (probably with Lithuanian help) attacked Poland and reached Lublin as a result of diminished tribute from the principality to the Mongol khan. The raid weakened Polish influence in the principality. Eufemija, Boleslaw's widow, was drowned in the Vistula in winter 1342 to keep her out of the succession disputes. Detko, who managed to play Poles, Lithuanians, and Mongols against each other, disappeared from written sources in 1344. The same year direct conflict between Poland and Lithuania renewed, but soon a peace treaty was signed: Volhynia was assigned to Liubartas and Galicia to Casimir.\n\nAfter the Lithuanians were defeated in the Battle of Strėva by the Teutonic Knights in 1348, Liubartas lost all territories except for eastern Volhynia with Lutsk to Casimir and his ally Louis I of Hungary (Louis was promised the territories if Casimir died without an heir). Liubartas' brothers Algirdas and Kęstutis organized several expeditions to Poland and Red Ruthenia. Lithuanians allied themselves with Muscovy: Liubartas married an unnamed daughter of Konstantin of Rostov, a relative of Simeon of Moscow, and Algirdas married Uliana of Tver, sister-in-law of Simeon. In spring 1351, Lubartas was taken prisoner by Louis, but was released in summer after a truce was agreed upon with Kęstutis. The deal fell through and more military attacks followed in 1352. Another truce, rather favorable to the Lithuanians, was signed in fall 1352: Lubartas received not only Volhynia and Podolia, but also Belz and Chełm. However, already in 1353, Liubartas attacked again. Casimir responded by organizing a large campaign against the pagan Lithuanians with a special permission from Pope Innocent VI. After the campaign did not achieve the desired results, Casimir contemplated an alliance with the Lithuanians.\n\nIn 1366, Casimir, allied with Siemowit III of Masovia and nephews of Liubartas, resumed the war. As Algirdas was involved in conflicts in the east and Kęstutis fought with the Teutonic Knights, Liubartas had to defend alone and was defeated. In fall 1366, a treaty was signed: Liubartas retained only eastern Volhynia with Lutsk and became somewhat dependent on Poland (he had to retain neutrality in case Poland attacked Lithuania). Casimir awarded his allies: Yuri, son of Karijotas, received Chełm, his brother Alexander received Volodymyr-Volynskyi, and Yuri, son of Narimantas, continued to rule Belz.\n\nIn 1370, Liubartas took advantage of Casimir's death and captured all of Volhynia, including Volodymyr-Volynskyi. Between 1370 and 1387 Galicia was ruled by the Hungarian crown. Louis of Hungary appointed Władysław Opolczyk as his regent in the region. In 1376 the war resumed: Liubartas, Kęstutis, and Yuri of Belz attacked Sandomierz and Tarnów, reaching as far as Kraków and taking many prisoners. After retaliation by Louis, Liubartas had to swear loyalty to Hungary as his sons were taken hostage. Liubartas could expect little help from Lithuania as his brother Algirdas died in 1377. In 1378 Louis attached Galicia directly to the Kingdom of Hungary. After Louis death in 1382, Liubartas captured castles ruled by Hungarians (including Kremenets and Przemyśl), but did not renew a full-scale war. At the time Lithuania, Poland, and Hungary, all three main contenders for the former Galicia–Volhynia, were engulfed in dynastic succession disputes. Polish nobles crowned Hungarian Jadwiga of Poland as their king and invited Lithuanian Jogaila to become her husband. Jadwiga and Jogaila signed the Union of Krewo in 1385, creating a personal union between Poland and Lithuania. In 1387, Jadwiga attached Galicia to Poland for good.\n\nLiubartas died ca. 1384 and his throne was inherited by his son Fëdor. Jogaila started limiting Fëdor's sovereignty in Volhynia. Jogaila, hoping to reconcile with his cousin Vytautas after the Lithuanian Civil War (1381–84) even promised Lutsk and Volodymyr-Volynskyi to Vytautas. However, that did not appease Vytautas, who sought to regain his patrimony in Trakai and gain power in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and he started the Lithuanian Civil War (1389–92). The civil war ended with the Ostrów Agreement of 1392, which settled Galician–Volhynian issue for good: Poland took Galicia adopting title \"Dei gratia rex Polonie et Russie, nec non Cracovie, Sandomirie, Siradie, Lancicie, Cuiavie, et Pomeranieque Terrarum et Ducatuum Dominus et Heres\", while Lithuania controlled Volhynia.\n"}
{"id": "1503220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503220", "title": "Gillian Lynne Theatre", "text": "Gillian Lynne Theatre\n\nThe Gillian Lynne Theatre (formerly New London Theatre) is a West End theatre located on the corner of Drury Lane and Parker Street in Covent Garden, in the London Borough of Camden. The Winter Garden Theatre formerly occupied the site until 1965. On 14 March 2018, Andrew Lloyd Webber announced that the theatre would be renamed \"The Gillian Lynne Theatre\" later in the year, in honour of Gillian Lynne. The name officially changed on 1 May 2018. It is the first theatre in the West End of London to be named after a non-royal woman.\n\nThe modern theatre is built on the site of previous taverns and music hall theatres, where a place of entertainment has been located since Elizabethan times. Nell Gwynn was associated with the tavern, which became known as the \"Great Mogul\" by the end of the 17th century, and presented entertainments in an adjoining hall, including \"glee clubs\" and \"sing-songs\". The \"Mogul Saloon\" was built on the site in 1847, which was sometimes known as the \"Turkish Saloon or the \"Mogul Music Hall.\" In 1851, it became the Middlesex Music Hall, known as \"The Old Mo\". This in turn was rebuilt as the \"New Middlesex Theatre of Varieties\", in 1911 by Frank Matcham for Oswald Stoll.\n\nIn 1919, the theatre was sold to George Grossmith, Jr. and Edward Laurillard, refurbished and reopened as the Winter Garden Theatre. They produced \"Kissing Time\" (1919, with a book by P. G. Wodehouse and Guy Bolton and music by Ivan Caryll), followed by \"A Night Out\" (1920), both starring Stanley Holloway. Grossmith and Laurillard also became managers of the Apollo Theatre in 1920. But expanding their operation caused Grossmith and Laurillard to end their partnership, with Grossmith retaining control of the Winter Garden.\n\nGrossmith then partnered with George Edwardes's former associate, Pat Malone, to produce a series of mostly adaptations of imported shows at the Winter Garden between 1920 and 1926: \"Sally\" (1921), \"The Cabaret Girl\" (1922, with book by Wodehouse and music by Jerome Kern), \"The Beauty Prize\" (1923, with Wodehouse and Kern), a revival of \"Tonight's the Night\" (1923), \"Primrose\" (1924, with music by George Gershwin), \"Tell Me More\" (1925, with words by Thompson and music by George Gershwin) and \"Kid Boots\" (1926 with music by Harry Tierney), many of them featuring Leslie Henson. Grossmith co-wrote some of the Winter Garden pieces, directed many of his own productions and starred in several, notably as Otis in \"Sally\". Several of the later productions lost money, and Grossmith and Malone ended the partnership.\n\n\"The Vagabond King\" was produced at the theatre in 1927, and in 1929, Fred and Adele Astaire starred in \"Funny Face\". In 1930, Sophie Tucker played in the Vivian Ellis musical \"Follow a Star\", and in 1923, Gracie Fields appeared here in \"Walk This Way\". In 1933, the theatre hosted Lewis Casson in George Bernard Shaw's \"On the Rocks\", followed in 1935 by \"Love on the Dole\", starring Wendy Hiller. The theatre closed in the late 1930s, reopening in 1942. In 1945, it hosted a Donald Wolfit season, and in 1953, Agatha Christie's \"Witness for the Prosecution\" played. 1956 saw \"The Water Gypsies\" by Vivian Ellis and A P Herbert; \"Hotel Paradiso\" starring Alec Guinness, Douglas Byng, Irene Worth and Billie Whitelaw; and Tyrone Power starred in Shaw's \"The Devil Disciple\". 1958 included \"The Iceman Cometh\".\n\nThe theatre closed permanently in 1959 when it was sold by the Rank Organisation to a developer. It was then gutted and remained vacant until 1965 to be replaced in 1973 by the current building.\n\nDesigned by architect Paul Tvrtkovic and scenic designer Sean Kenny (\"Blitz!\", \"Oliver!\", \"Pickwick (musical)\"), modelled after the Walter Gropius Total-Theater, and seating 960 on 2 levels, the theatre's auditorium first opened with a television recording of Marlene Dietrich's one-woman show. The theatre officially opened on 2 January 1973 with a production of \"The Unknown Soldier and His Wife\" starring Peter Ustinov. It then hosted \"Grease\", starring Richard Gere as Danny. Beginning in 1977, the theatre was used as a television studio for several years and then returned to use as a theatre. The theatre's biggest hit was the Andrew Lloyd Webber and Trevor Nunn musical \"Cats\", choreographed by Gillian Lynne which premièred in the theatre on 11 May 1981. Closing in 2002, this production became the longest running musical in West End history.\n\nThe theatre also hosted the 1977 BBC Sports Personality of the Year and the Masters snooker between 1976 and 1978. Also in 1977, the theatre hosted the BBC's \"A Song For Europe\" contest, the preliminary heat to choose the UK entry for the \"Eurovision Song Contest\". However, the show was blacked out on TV due to a last minute strike by technicians. The famous video clip for the song \"We Are The Champions\" by the band Queen was shot there on October 1977, which followed a minor 70-min. concert.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2005 the theatre hosted Bill Kenwright's revival of Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical, \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\". This closed after a two and a half year run on 3 September 2005. Most recently, the venue played host to the London transfer of the off-Broadway production, \"Blue Man Group\", which closed in June 2007, to make way for the Royal Shakespeare Company's repertory productions of \"The Seagull\" and \"King Lear\", starring Ian McKellen. In Spring 2008, a new musical adaptation of \"Gone With The Wind\" ran for only two month. New musical Imagine This closed after only being open for one month.\n\nThe National Theatre production of \"War Horse\" transferred into the theatre from the 28 March 2009 where it stayed until 12 March 2016 after over 3,000 performances.\n\nThe theatre was home to the Sheffield Cruicible's production of the musical \"Show Boat\" which opened on 9 April 2016. Despite positive reviews, the production closed early, on 27 August 2016. On 22 October 2016 the London production of Andrew Lloyd Webber's \"School of Rock\" the musical opened, direct from Broadway.\n\nThe theatre has been owned since 1991 by Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Group. The theatre building also contains an underground car park, a cabaret venue, a basement nightclub, shops and a residential tower. In 2014, Lloyd Webber reorganized the group; the entity that owns the theatre is Really Useful Theatres.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18380238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18380238", "title": "Hotaru no Hikari", "text": "Hotaru no Hikari\n\n"}
{"id": "45140653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45140653", "title": "Huck Finn Jubilee", "text": "Huck Finn Jubilee\n\nThe Huck Finn Jubilee Bluegrass Music Festival or simply The Huck Finn Jubilee is an annual three-day bluegrass event held in Ontario, California. It is held during the second weekend in June at the Cucamonga-Guasti Regional Park and features RV and tent camping, traditional \"Americana\" activities, and live bluegrass music. The festival also features activities, such as greased pole climbing, tomahawk throwing, pie eating, river rafting, and arts and crafts. The event is also the West Coast’s biggest bluegrass festival, with acts such as The String Cheese Incident, Ralph Stanley, Steve Martin & the Steep Canyon Rangers, and Rhonda Vincent. On September 30, 2016 the Greater Ontario Convention & Visitors Bureau announced that 2016 would be the last festival sponsored by it at the Cucamonga-Guasti Regional Park.\n\nThe history of the Jubilee began in Norco, California in the early 70's. Tuckers, David \"Russ\" and Maureen Russell, Steve and Sandy Perault and Christianson each had a hand in making it a success before it ever moved to and including Victorville.\n\nThe Huck Finn Jubilee Bluegrass Music Festival was founded by Don Tucker and his family in 1976 and was eventually held at the Mojave Narrows Regional Park in Victorville, California, on Father’s Day weekend. The festival, which at first featured mostly local talent as the bluegrass entertainment, achieved success in its first few years, with attendance as high as 7,000.\n\nIn 1989, Bobby Osborne of bluegrass duo The Osborne Brothers called Tucker to ask if he would book them for Friday night, as they were \"stuck on the West Coast\". In the following years after their performance at the Huck Finn Jubilee Bluegrass Music Festival, Tucker began booking national talent such as The Country Gentlemen, The Seldom Scene, Jimmy Martin, J.D. Crowe, Larry Sparks, Tony Rice, Earl Scruggs, Ricky Skaggs, Lonesome River Band, among others. In 2001, the Huck Finn Jubilee was named the bluegrass event of the year by the International Bluegrass Music Association.\n\nAfter Don Tucker died in 2012, the festival moved to Cucamonga-Guasti Regional Park in Ontario, California, for the following year. In May 2014, Michael Krouse and the Greater Ontario Convention & Visitors Bureau acquired the festival to ensure its continuation.\n\nIn November 2014, Huck Finn Jubilee officials announced that starting in 2015, the festival will be held annually during the second weekend in June to facilitate event planning and avoid potential conflict with the Telluride Bluegrass Festival, which is held the third weekend in June.\n\nNotable performers at the event include acts such as Sam Bush, The String Cheese Incident, Ralph Stanley, Rhonda Vincent, Del McCoury Band, David Byrne, Johnny Cash, Cherryholmes, Elvis Costello, David Byrne, John Fogerty, Dixie Chicks, New Monsoon, Sharon Gilchrist, Railroad Earth, New Grass Revival, Emmylou Harris, Alison Krauss and Union Station, Willie Nelson, Robert Plant, John Prine, Yonder Mountain String Band, Mumford & Sons, Peter Rowan, Leftover Salmon, Béla Fleck, Chris Thile, Noam Pikelny, Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band, Tim O'Brien, Counting Crows, Nickel Creek, Lyle Lovett, Steve Martin and the Steep Canyon Rangers among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "11486628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486628", "title": "Icelandic presidential elections", "text": "Icelandic presidential elections\n\nIcelandic presidential elections determine who serves as president of the Republic of Iceland for four-year terms. The mandate of the current president, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, expired in the summer of 2016. Guðni Th. Jóhannesson won the presidential election, which was held on June 28, 2016.\n\nIt is common for there only to be one candidate declared at the time of the closure of nominations, normally the incumbent president, in which case no election is held and the incumbent is declared to be re-elected. This has happened in 1956, 1960, 1964, 1972, 1976, 1984, 1992, 2000, and 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50821721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50821721", "title": "Irvin “Kip” Kipper", "text": "Irvin “Kip” Kipper\n\nIrvin S. \"Kip\" Kipper, (November 13, 1916 – April 21, 2016) was an American Air Force bomber pilot, prisoner of war, and the founder and namesake of Kip's Toyland, the oldest toy store in Los Angeles, located in the Farmer's Market since 1945.\n\nIrvin Kipper was born in Fort Worth, Texas, on November 13, 1916, and his family moved to Los Angeles in 1920. In 1944, he enlisted in the US Army Air Corps, ultimately becoming an officer and pilot of the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress during World War II. While flying in Europe, Kipper named his B-17 \"Purdy Gertie\", after his wife, Gertrude.\n\nOn his 26th mission, Kipper was shot down over Bologna, where he was captured and spent more than seven months as a Nazi prisoner of war in the POW camps Stalag Luft III (celebrated in books, TV and film for \"the Great Escape\") and Stalag VII. Kipper's camp was liberated by troops of George S. Patton in August 1945.\n\nWhen Kipper returned to Los Angeles after the war, he purchased a small store to sell flags. He then added balloons, which were a big hit, because rubber was rationed during the war. Then he added Slinky, board games, Lincoln Logs, Tinkertoy sets, Carrom Game Boards, and new toys as they were invented.\n\nFAO Schwarz opened up a short distance from Kip's Toyland, but they went out of business and Kip's Toyland is still flourishing.\n"}
{"id": "2939554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2939554", "title": "Koreagate", "text": "Koreagate\n\n\"Koreagate\" was an American political scandal in 1976 involving South Korean political figures seeking influence from 10 Democratic members of Congress. An immediate goal of the scandal seems to have been reversing President Richard Nixon's decision to withdraw troops from South Korea. It involved the Korea Central Intelligence Agency (KCIA) allegedly funneling bribes and favors through Korean businessman Tongsun Park in an attempt to gain favor and influence for South Korean objectives.\n\nTongsun Park and U.S. Congressman Richard T. Hanna (D-CA) were two of the main actors involved in the Koreagate scandal. Tongsun Park represented the Korean side of the secret agreement, while Richard Hanna was largely responsible for the American side of the deal. According to the agreement, both parties would share the commissions from American rice sales to South Korea and to use them to obtain favorable decisions for Seoul in the United States Congress. Hanna was also responsible for aiding Chung Il Kwon and Park in finding effective lobbying techniques, which he did by advising the pair to emulate Taiwanese and Israeli models that had succeeded in the past. Park was also responsible for providing extra financial incentives to Hanna and other members of Congress, a task made easy by large rice sale commissions. Such financial incentives reportedly ranged from US$100,000 to $200,000 at a time per individual. Some 115 members of Congress were supposedly involved. Speculation also focused on the role of Unification Church founder Sun Myung Moon, former KCIA Director Kim Hyong-uk, and former South Korean Prime Minister Chung Il-kwon.\n\nThe reasons behind the scandal involved political, social, and financial motivations. Korean leaders, including Tongsun Park and President Park, were angered with Nixon's decision to withdraw soldiers from South Korea and felt it was urgent to build support for preserving the remaining United States military presence. The Park government was also concerned with the approval of a substantial package of assistance for South Korea's military modernization programs. Another reason behind the scandal was to repress or counter increasing criticism of Park's illegitimate policies and human rights violations. According to many, the deceitfulness of Park's objectives would ultimately lead to his downfall.\n\nThe United States Department of State recognized the illegal aspects of Park's action in 1970 and informed the Korean embassy in Washington that such activities were problematic. Former United States Ambassador to the Republic of Korea William Porter tried to persuade South Korean President Park Chung-hee and Chung Il Kwon that Tongsun Park should have to return to South Korea, but to no avail. Later, William Porter described the United States response as \"greatly pessimistic\" because the United States government did not want to denounce South Korea when it was assisting war efforts in Vietnam. Following the replacement of William Porter by Philip Habib as ambassador to South Korea, punishment for Tongsun Park's unethical activities was increasingly pursued. Habib attempted to force Park to register as a lobbyist for the South Korean government, but was unsuccessful. In response to his failure, Habib instructed all embassy personnel in South Korea to cut ties with Park and warned several visiting congressmen about his illegal operations, only to be crossed by former Attorney General William Saxbe who warned Park of these actions and his potential prosecution. Shortly after Porter and Habib's attempts to condemn Tongsun Park's actions, Habib accepted another job opportunity which forced him to work abroad for three years, which once again left Park's fate uncertain.\n\nAfter Koreagate was publicized, political relations between the United States and South Korea became shaky at best. Animosity between the United States and South Korea was further aggravated by mutual misperceptions and procedural disagreements. The United States adopted a legalistic platform and expected South Korea to cooperate with any pending investigations. On the other hand, South Korean officials believed the story had been exaggerated, spun, or even concocted by American journalists. Furthermore, South Korea interpreted American action as arising from an anti-Park conspiracy. Political experts on both sides also suspected that the scandal was being framed in this manner to aid Gerald Ford's election strategy. According to this interpretation, the Ford administration intended to neutralize the Democratic Party's exploitation of Watergate and Ford's pardon of Richard Nixon as issues by linking key Democratic congressmen to the Koreagate operations.\n\nDespite persistent disagreement about extradition between the United States and South Korea, Tongsun Park ultimately came to the United States in April 1978 to testify publicly in a House hearing. During the testimony, Park admitted to disbursing cash to thirty members of Congress. Ten members of Congress were implicated, of whom most decided to resign, while the statute of limitations expired for three. Park was granted full immunity for his testimony. Congressional members Edward Roybal (D-CA), Charles H. Wilson (D-CA) and John J. McFall (D-CA) were censured and reprimanded; Congressman Edward J. Patten (D-NJ) was found not guilty, and Otto Passman (D-LA) was indicted on bribery, conspiracy, illegal gratuities and tax evasion. He was tried in his home district in Monroe, Louisiana and was acquitted. Richard Hanna was convicted and sentenced to six to thirty months in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40807531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40807531", "title": "La Jolla Fashion Film Festival", "text": "La Jolla Fashion Film Festival\n\nThe La Jolla Fashion Film Festival (LJFF) is an annual three-day film festival and host of the International Fashion Film Awards held in La Jolla, California. LJFF is the first international Fashion Film Festival of its kind to be founded in North America. This elite fashion industry event screens some of the top fashion films produced worldwide. The festival features panel discussions, seminars, after parties, and an award ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "42646001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42646001", "title": "Marthe Valle", "text": "Marthe Valle\n\nMarthe Valle (born 29 November 1982 in Harstad, Norway), is a Norwegian singer and songwriter, living in Bergen.\n\nValle released her first solo album, \"It's A Bag Of Candy\" (2005), awarded the Spellemannprisen as best newcomer. In addition, she was also nominated for Best Female Artist that year. In 2010 she went all the way to the final of the Norwegian X Factor, but was tunded down in sixth final round, as number seven. She participated in the Melodi Grand Prix 2012.\n\nValle was a partner of the basketball player Marco Elsafadi, and together they have a daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53767273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53767273", "title": "Museum of Failure", "text": "Museum of Failure\n\nThe Museum of Failure is a collection of failed products and services. The museum showcases failures to provide visitors a learning experience about the important role of failure for innovation and to encourage organizations to become better at learning from failure. The exhibition opened on June 7, 2017 in Helsingborg, Sweden. The exhibit re-opened at Dunkers Kulturhus on June 2, 2018. A temporary exhibit opened in Los Angeles in December 2017. The Los Angeles museum is on Hollywood Blvd. in the Hollywood & Highland Center. \n\nThe growing collection consists of over seventy failed products and services from around the world. Every item provides insight into the risky business of innovation. Some examples of the items on display: Apple Newton, Bic for Her, Google Glass, N-Gage, lobotomy instruments, Harley-Davidson Cologne, Kodak DC-40, Sony Betamax, Lego Fiber Optics and Paolo Macchiarini's infamous plastic trachea.\n\nThe museum has received international attention for its unusual collection.\n\nThe concept of the museum was inspired by Samuel West's 2016 visit to Museum of Broken Relationships in Zagreb, Croatia. Museum founder and curator Samuel West reportedly registered a domain name for the museum, and later realized he had misspelled the word \"museum\".\n\nThe museum was partially funded by the Swedish Innovation Authority (Vinnova).\n\n"}
{"id": "54518776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54518776", "title": "Professional Showdance World Champions", "text": "Professional Showdance World Champions\n\nList of all Professional Showdance World Champions, July 2017:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7932746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7932746", "title": "Red Bull Rampage", "text": "Red Bull Rampage\n\nThe Red Bull Rampage is an invitation-only freeride mountain bike competition held near Zion National Park in Virgin, Utah, United States, just to the north of Gooseberry Mesa. Since 2001 till 2004, it was held off the Kolob Terrace Road, on the western boundary of Zion National Park.\n\nThe competition was held since 2001 till 2004 and then canceled due to the increasing risk competitors were taking. After a three-year hiatus, Rampage returned in 2008 with a new venue. For the 2008 event wooden features have been introduced to what has previously been a \"natural\" only course.\n\nThe competition is usually held in October. The event is similar to freestyle skiing and snowboarding, where competitors are judged on their choice of lines down the course, their technical ability and the complexity of tricks. Red Bull Rampage has become one of the biggest mountain biking events of the year.\n\nAt the first ever Rampage in 2001, the prize money for the event was $8,000. In 2015, the total prize fund was $100,000.\n\nDates: 23–26 October 2018\n\n\nDates: 26–27 October 2017\n\n\nDates: 12–14 October 2016\n\nDates: 15–16 October 2015\n\nDates: 29–30 September 2014\n\nDates: 11–13 October 2013\n\nDates: 5–7 October 2012\n\nDates: 1–3 October 2010\n\nDates: 5–6 October 2008\n\n\nDates: 30–31 October 2004\n\nDates: 16–19 October 2003\n\nDates: 12–13 October 2002\n\n\nDates: 20–21 October 2001\n\n"}
{"id": "51984707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51984707", "title": "Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014", "text": "Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014\n\nThe Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 is an Act of the Scottish Parliament, introduced to the legislature in 2013, and became law after receiving Royal Assent on 19 February 2014. It sought to improve the regulation of businesses requiring certain environmental permits within Scotland whilst strengthening existing protections of the environment.\n\nJohn Swinney MSP introduced the Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Bill to Parliament on 27 March 2013, supported by Paul Wheelhouse MSP and Fergus Ewing MSP. It passed through the various stages in Parliament between November 2013 and January 2014 and received Royal Assent on 19 February 2014, with Part 5 of the Act (excluding section 57) coming into force the following day. The legislation allowed for the remainder of the Act to come into force on a future date at the will of the Scottish Ministers. The Act arose from recommendations made to the Government by the Environmental Crime Task Force.\n\nThe Act attempts to make it easier for businesses to apply for certain permits and licences in Scotland, while strengthening environmental regulations to protect the country's natural heritage. Businesses will be able to apply for a single permit for a site where several would have been required previously. In addition, it gives courts additional sentencing powers in relation to environmental crime and give the Scottish Environment Protection Agency more powers to enforce laws. A new criminal offence of causing environmental harm has also been created.\n\n"}
{"id": "4042688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4042688", "title": "Robert E. Galer", "text": "Robert E. Galer\n\nBrigadier General Robert Edward Galer (24 October 1913 – 27 June 2005) was a naval aviator in the United States Marine Corps who received the Medal of Honor for heroism in aerial combat during the Battle of Guadalcanal in World War II. He went on to command Marine Aircraft Group 12 during the Korean War and retired a few years after in 1957.\n\nRobert Galer was born in Seattle, Washington, on 24 October 1913. He attended the University of Washington and was an All-American in basketball. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in commercial engineering in 1935, at which time he received an ROTC commission and began elimination flight training at the Naval Reserve Aviation Base, Seattle.\n\nIn June 1936, he began his Aviation Cadet flight training at the Naval Air Station Pensacola, Florida, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps on 1 July 1936. Following his designation as a Naval Aviator in April 1937, he was transferred to the 1st Marine Brigade in Quantico, Virginia, for duty with Aircraft One. In July of the same year, he was assigned to a course of instruction at the Basic School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Following the completion of his studies in June 1938, he was ordered to the New York Navy Yard, but shortly thereafter was transferred to the Virgin Islands, where he served with Marine Scouting Squadron 3 (VMS-3) in St. Thomas. He was promoted to first lieutenant in July 1939.\n\nFirst Lieutenant Galer returned to the United States in June 1940 and in July reported to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing in San Diego, California, and was assigned to Marine Fighting Squadron 2 (VMF-2). On 29 August 1940, Galer ditched Grumman F3F-2, BuNo \"0976\", c/n 374, off the coast of San Diego while attempting a landing on the . (The fighter was rediscovered by a navy submarine in June 1988 and recovered on 5 April 1991. It was restored at the San Diego Aerospace Museum). In January 1941, he was ordered to Hawaii and promoted to captain in March 1941. Galer was serving at the Marine Corps Air Station Ewa, Oahu, with Marine Fighting Squadron 211 (VMF-211) when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941.\n\nIn May 1942, Galer assumed command of Marine Fighting Squadron 224 (VMF-224) and on 30 August 1942 led the squadron to Guadalcanal, where they became part of the Cactus Air Force. It was while in command of VMF-224 that Galer would be credited with 11 confirmed victories and be awarded the Medal of Honor and a rare British Distinguished Flying Cross for the same acts of heroism. \n\nFollowing the presentation of the Medal of Honor by President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House on 24 March 1943, Major Galer was ordered to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, where he served as Assistant Operations Officer. He was grounded because his superiors did not want to risk losing a Medal of Honor recipient; he had been shot down three times during the war (and once more in the Korean War). Shortly after being promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel in November 1943, he was ordered to return to the Hawaiian Islands, where he became Chief of Staff, Marine Air, Hawaiian Area.\n\nIn May 1944, Lieutenant Colonel Galer was named as Operations Officer, 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing. He served as an observer during the Palau Islands and Iwo Jima campaigns while on temporary duty from the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing. His next assignment found him as Training Officer of Provisional Air Support Command, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific.\n\nHe again returned to the United States in June 1945 and reported to the Marine Barracks, Naval Air Training Base, Corpus Christi, Texas, in July as officer in charge of a cadet regiment. He remained in that capacity until August 1947, at which time he was assigned as a student at the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia.\n\nIn June 1948, he reported to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing, at the Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina, where he served as Operations and Training Officer. He joined Headquarters Squadron-2 at that station in April 1949 and was transferred on 26 April 1950 to the Naval Air Station San Diego, California. He served there as Marine Planning Officer and, later, as Assistant Chief of Staff for Plans, on the Staff of the Commander, Air Force, U.S. Pacific Fleet. During his assignment, he was promoted to colonel in March 1951.\n\nColonel Galer sailed in March 1952 for Korea, where he saw duty as Assistant Chief of Staff, G-4 (Supply), of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing until the following May. He was then named Commanding Officer of Marine Aircraft Group 12 (MAG-12), and, for extraordinary achievement on 11 July 1952, was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Distinguished Flying Cross. According to the citation accompanying this medal, he \"led a maximum effort strike of Marine attack aircraft against a heavily defended industrial area in the North Korean capital city of Pyongyang.\"\n\nColonel Galer was also awarded the Legion of Merit with Combat \"V\" for his service in Korea. On 5 August 1952, he was shot down behind enemy lines by anti-aircraft fire while leading a flight of 31 warplanes against targets near the North Korean port city of Wonsan. He later admitted he \"did a dumb thing\": After completing the mission, \"I went back to take a picture. And this anti-aircraft gun, he nailed me.\" He was later rescued by a HO3S-1 helicopter flown by 1st Lieutenant E. J. McCutcheon.\n\nAfter a period of hospitalization, he returned to duty at Marine Corps Air Station El Toro, California, in October 1952, as Assistant Chief of Staff, G-1 (Personnel), and later, G-3 (Operations), of Aircraft, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific. He was enrolled as a student in the Air War College, Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, in July 1953. Upon graduation from the College the following June, he was transferred to Headquarters Marine Corps, Washington, D.C., where he became Assistant Director, Guided Missiles Division, Bureau of Aeronautics, Department of the Navy. He served in that capacity until January 1956, when he became Acting Director. The following June he was awarded a Master's degree in Engineering Administration from The George Washington University, Washington, D.C.\n\nFor exceptionally meritorious service in combat, he was advanced to brigadier general upon his retirement on 31 July 1957.\n\nHe worked as vice president of the conglomerate Ling-Temco-Vought and later as an executive with Bright & Co.\n\nBrigadier General Galer died of a stroke on 27 June 2005 in Dallas, Texas. He was survived by his second wife, Sharon Alexander Galer, four children and six grandchildren.\n\n\nA complete list of Brig. Gen. Galer's medals and decorations include: \n\n\nCitation: For conspicuous heroism and courage above and beyond the call of duty as leader of a marine fighter squadron in aerial combat with enemy Japanese forces in the Solomon Islands area. Leading his squadron repeatedly in daring and aggressive raids against Japanese aerial forces, vastly superior in numbers, Maj. Galer availed himself of every favorable attack opportunity, individually shooting down 11 enemy bomber and fighter aircraft over a period of 29 days. Though suffering the extreme physical strain attendant upon protracted fighter operations at an altitude above 25,000 feet, the squadron under his zealous and inspiring leadership shot down a total of 27 Japanese planes. His superb airmanship, his outstanding skill and personal valor reflect great credit upon Maj. Galer's gallant fighting spirit and upon the U.S. Naval Service.\n\nAt the University of Washington in February 2006, a resolution recommending a memorial be erected to honor fighter ace and alumnus Pappy Boyington for his service during World War II was raised and defeated during a meeting of the student senate. Some people did not believe the resolution's sponsor had fully addressed the financial and logistical problems of installing a memorial, and some were questioning the widely held assumption that all warriors and acts of war are automatically worthy of memorialization. The story was picked up by some blogs and conservative news outlets, focusing on two statements made by student senators during the meeting. One student senator, Ashley Miller, said that the UW already had many monuments to \"rich, white men\" (Boyington claimed partial Sioux ancestry and was not rich); another, Jill Edwards, questioned whether the UW should memorialize a person who killed others, summarized in the minutes as saying \"she didn't believe a member of the Marine Corps was an example of the sort of person UW wanted to produce.\"\n\nAfter its defeat, a new version of the original resolution was submitted that called for a memorial to all eight UW alumni who received the Medal of Honor after attending the school. On April 4, 2006, the resolution passed by a vote of 64 to 14 with several abstentions, on a roll call vote. The University of Washington Medal of Honor memorial was constructed at the south end of Memorial Way (17th Ave NE), north of Red Square, in the interior of a traffic circle between Parrington and Kane Halls (). Privately funded, it was completed in time for a Veterans Day dedication in November 2009. In addition to Greg Boyington, it honors Deming Bronson, Bruce Crandall, Robert Galer, John Hawk, Robert Leisy, William Nakamura, and Archie Van Winkle.\n\n<poem>\nOrdinary individuals facing extraordinary circumstances\nwith courage and selflessness answer the call\nand change the course of destiny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816", "title": "Roman Republic", "text": "Roman Republic\n\nThe Roman Republic (, ; ) was the era of classical Roman civilisation beginning with the overthrow of the Roman Kingdom, traditionally dated to 509 BC, and ending in 27 BC with the establishment of the Roman Empire. It was during this period that Rome's control expanded from the city's immediate surroundings to hegemony over the entire Mediterranean world.\n\nRoman society under the Republic was a cultural mix of Latin, Etruscan, and Greek elements, which is especially visible in the Roman Pantheon. Besides, its political organisation was strongly influenced by the Greek city states of Magna Graecia, with collective and annual magistracies, overseen by a senate. The top magistrates were the two consuls, who had an extensive range of executive, legislative, judicial, military, and religious powers. Whilst there were elections each year, the Republic was not a democracy, but an oligarchy, as a small number of large families (called \"gentes\") monopolised the main magistracies. Roman institutions underwent considerable changes throughout the Republic to adapt to the difficulties it faced, such as the creation of promagistracies to rule its conquered provinces, or the composition of the senate.\n\nUnlike the \"Pax Romana\" of the Roman Empire, the Republic was in a state of quasi-perpetual war throughout its existence. Its first enemies were its Latin and Etruscan neighbours as well as the Gauls, who even sacked the city in 387 BC. The Republic nonetheless demonstrated extreme resilience and always managed to overcome its losses, however catastrophic. After the Gallic Sack, Rome indeed conquered the whole Italian peninsula in a century, which turned the Republic into a major power in the Mediterranean. The Republic's greatest enemy was doubtless Carthage, against which it waged three wars. The Punic general Hannibal famously invaded Italy by crossing the Alps and inflicted on Rome two devastating defeats at the Lake Trasimene and Cannae, but the Republic once again recovered and won the war thanks to Scipio Africanus at the Battle of Zama in 202 BC. With Carthage defeated, Rome became the dominant power of the ancient Mediterranean world. It then embarked in a long series of difficult conquests, after having notably defeated Philip V and Perseus of Macedon, Antiochus III of the Seleucid Empire, the Lusitanian Viriathis, the Numidian Jugurtha, the great Pontic king Mithridates VI, the Gaul Vercingetorix, and the Egyptian queen Cleopatra.\n\nAt home, the Republic similarly experienced a long streak of social and political crises, which ended in several violent civil wars. At first, the Conflict of the Orders opposed the patricians, the closed oligarchic elite, to the far more numerous \"plebs\", who finally achieved political equality in several steps during the 4th century BC. Later, the vast conquests of the Republic disrupted its society, as the immense influx of slaves they brought enriched the aristocracy, but ruined the peasantry and urban workers. In order to solve this issue, several social reformers, known as the \"Populares\", tried to pass agrarian laws, but the Gracchi brothers, Saturninus, or Clodius Pulcher, were all murdered by their opponents: the \"Optimates\", keepers of the traditional aristocratic order. Mass slavery also caused three Servile Wars; the last of them was led by Spartacus, a skilful gladiator who ravaged Italy and left Rome powerless until his defeat in 71 BC. In this context, the last decades of the Republic were marked by the rise of great generals, who exploited their military conquests and the factional situation in Rome to gain control of the political system. Marius (between 105-86 BC), then Sulla (between 82-78 BC) dominated in turn the Republic; both used extraordinary powers to purge their opponents. These multiple tensions lead to a series of civil wars; the first between the two generals Julius Caesar and Pompey. Despite his victory and appointment as dictator for life, Caesar was murdered in 44 BC. Caesar's heir Octavian and lieutenant Mark Antony defeated Caesar's assassins Brutus and Cassius in 42 BC, but then turned against each other. The final defeat of Mark Antony and his ally Cleopatra at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC, and the Senate's grant of extraordinary powers to Octavian as \"Augustus\" in 27 BC – which effectively made him the first Roman emperor – thus ended the Republic.\n\nSince the foundation of Rome, its rulers had been monarchs, elected for life by the patrician noblemen who made up the Roman Senate. The last Roman king was Lucius Tarquinius Superbus (\"Tarquin the Proud\"). In the traditional histories, Tarquin was expelled in 509 because his son, Sextus Tarquinius, had raped the noblewoman Lucretia, who afterwards took her own life. Lucretia's father; her husband, Lucius Tarquinius Collatinus; and Tarquin's own nephew, Lucius Junius Brutus, mustered support from the Senate and army, and forced Tarquin into exile in Etruria.\n\nThe Senate agreed to abolish kingship. Most of the king's former functions were transferred to two consuls, who were elected to office for a term of one year. Each consul had the capacity to act as a check on his colleague, if necessary through the same power of \"veto\" that the kings had held. If a consul abused his powers in office, he could be prosecuted when his term expired. Brutus and Collatinus became Republican Rome's first consuls. Despite Collatinus' role in the creation of the Republic, he belonged to the same family as the former king, and was forced to abdicate his office and leave Rome. He was replaced as co-consul by Publius Valerius Publicola.\n\nMost modern scholarship describes these events as the quasi-mythological detailing of an aristocratic coup within Tarquin's own family, not a popular revolution. They fit a narrative of a personal vengeance against a tyrant leading to his overthrow, which was common among Greek cities and even theorised by Aristotle.\n\nAccording to Rome's traditional histories, Tarquin made several attempts to retake the throne, including the Tarquinian conspiracy, which involved Brutus' own sons, the war with Veii and Tarquinii and finally the war between Rome and Clusium; but none succeeded.\n\nThe first Roman republican wars were wars of both expansion and defence, aimed at protecting Rome itself from neighbouring cities and nations and establishing its territory in the region. Initially, Rome's immediate neighbours were either Latin towns and villages, or else tribal Sabines from the Apennine hills beyond. One by one Rome defeated both the persistent Sabines and the local cities, both those under Etruscan control and those that had cast off their Etruscan rulers. Rome defeated the Latin cities in the Battle of Lake Regillus in 496, the Battle of Mount Algidus in 458, the Battle of Corbio in 446, the Battle of Aricia, and especially the Battle of the Cremera in 477 wherein it fought against the most important Etruscan city of Veii. By the end of this period, Rome had effectively completed the conquest of their immediate Etruscan and Latin neighbours, and also secured their position against the immediate threat posed by the nearby Apennine hill tribes.\n\nBeginning with their revolt against Tarquin, and continuing through the early years of the Republic, Rome's patrician aristocrats were the dominant force in politics and society. They initially formed a closed group of about 50 large families, called \"gentes\", who monopolised Rome's magistracies, state priesthoods and senior military posts. The most prominent of these families were the Cornelii, followed by the Aemilii, Claudii, Fabii, and Valerii. The power, privilege and influence of leading families derived from their wealth, in particular from their landholdings, their position as patrons, and their numerous clients.\n\nThe vast majority of Roman citizens were commoners of various social degrees. They formed the backbone of Rome's economy, as smallholding farmers, managers, artisans, traders, and tenants. In times of war, they could be summoned for military service. Most had little direct political influence over the Senate's decisions or the laws it passed, including the abolition of the monarchy and the creation of the consular system. During the early Republic, the \"plebs\" (or plebeians) emerged as a self-organised, culturally distinct group of commoners, with their own internal hierarchy, laws, customs, and interests.\n\nPlebeians had no access to high religious and civil office, and could be punished for offences against laws of which they had no knowledge. For the poorest, one of the few effective political tools was their withdrawal of labour and services, in a \"secessio plebis\"; they would leave the city en masse, and allow their social superiors to fend for themselves. The first such secession occurred in 494, in protest at the abusive treatment of plebeian debtors by the wealthy during a famine. The Senate was compelled to give them direct access to the written civil and religious laws, and to the electoral and political process. To represent their interests, the \"plebs\" elected tribunes, who were personally sacrosanct, immune to arbitrary arrest by any magistrate, and had veto power over the passage of legislation.\n\nBy 390, several Gallic tribes were invading Italy from the north as their culture expanded throughout Europe. The Romans were alerted to this when a particularly warlike tribe, the Senones, invaded two Etruscan towns close to Rome's sphere of influence. These towns, overwhelmed by the enemy's numbers and ferocity, called on Rome for help. The Romans met the Gauls in pitched battle at the Battle of Allia River around 390–387 BC. The Gauls, led by the chieftain Brennus, defeated the Roman army of approximately 15,000 troops, pursued the fleeing Romans back to Rome, and sacked the city before being either driven off or bought off.\n\nFrom 343 to 341, Rome won two battles against their Samnite neighbours, but were unable to consolidate their gains, due to the outbreak of war with former Latin allies.\n\nIn the Latin War (340–338), Rome defeated a coalition of Latins at the battles of Vesuvius and the Trifanum. The Latins submitted to Roman rule.\n\nA Second Samnite War began in 327. The fortunes of the two sides fluctuated, but from 314, Rome was dominant, and offered progressively unfavourable terms for peace. The war ended with Samnite defeat at the Battle of Bovianum (305). By the following year, Rome had annexed most Samnite territory, and began to establish colonies there; but in 298 the Samnites rebelled, and defeated a Roman army, in a Third Samnite War. Following this success they built a coalition of several previous enemies of Rome.\n\nAt the Battle of Populonia in 282 Rome finished off the last vestiges of Etruscan power in the region.\n\nIn the 4th century, plebeians gradually obtained political equality with patricians. The starting point was in 400, when the first plebeian consular tribunes were elected; likewise, several subsequent consular colleges counted plebeians (in 399, 396, 388, 383, and 379). The reason behind this sudden gain is unknown, but it was limited as patrician tribunes retained preeminence over their plebeian colleagues. In 385, the former consul and saviour of the besieged Capitol Marcus Manlius Capitolinus is said to have sided with the plebeians, ruined by the Sack and largely indebted to patricians. The issue of debt relief for the plebs remained indeed pressing throughout the century. Livy tells that Capitolinus sold his estate to repay the debt of many of them, and even went over to the plebs, the first patrician to do so. Nevertheless, the growing unrest he had caused led to his trial for seeking kingly power; he was sentenced to death and thrown from the Tarpeian Rock.\n\nBetween 376 and 367, the tribunes of the plebs Gaius Licinius Stolo and Lucius Sextius Lateranus continued the plebeian agitation and pushed for an ambitious legislation, known as the \"Leges Liciniae Sextiae\". Two of their bills attacked patricians' economic supremacy, by creating legal protection against indebtedness and forbidding excessive use of public land, as the \"Ager publicus\" was monopolised by large landowners. The most important bill opened the consulship to plebeians. Other tribunes controlled by the patricians vetoed the bills, but Stolo and Lateranus retaliated by vetoing the elections for five years while being continuously re-elected by the plebs, resulting in a stalemate. In 367, they carried a bill creating the \"Decemviri sacris faciundis\", a college of ten priests, of whom five had to be plebeians, therefore breaking patricians' monopoly on priesthoods. Finally, the resolution of the crisis came from the dictator Camillus, who made a compromise with the tribunes; he agreed to their bills, while they in return consented to the creation of the offices of praetor and curule aediles, both reserved to patricians. Lateranus also became the first plebeian consul in 366; Stolo followed in 361.\n\nSoon after, plebeians were able to hold both the dictatorship and the censorship, since former consuls normally filled these senior magistracies. The four time consul Gaius Marcius Rutilus became the first plebeian dictator in 356 and censor in 351. In 342, the tribune of the plebs Lucius Genucius passed his \"Leges Genuciae\", which abolished interest on loans, in a renewed effort to tackle indebtedness, required the election of at least one plebeian consul each year, and prohibited a magistrate from holding the same magistracy for the next ten years or two magistracies in the same year. In 339, the plebeian consul and dictator Quintus Publilius Philo passed three laws extending the powers of the plebeians. His first law followed the \"Lex Genucia\" by reserving one censorship to plebeians, the second made plebiscites binding on all citizens (including patricians), and the third stated that the Senate had to give its prior approval to plebiscites before becoming binding on all citizens (the \"Lex Valeria-Horatia\" of 449 had placed this approval after the vote). Two years later, Publilius ran for the praetorship, probably in a bid to take the last senior magistracy closed to plebeians, which he won. \nDuring the early republic, senators were chosen by the consuls among their supporters. Shortly before 312, the \"Lex Ovinia\" transferred this power to the censors, who could only remove senators for misconduct, thus appointing them for life. This law strongly increased the power of the Senate, which was by now protected from the influence of the consuls and became the central organ of government. In 312, following this law, the patrician censor Appius Claudius Caecus appointed many more senators to fill the new limit of 300, including descendants of freedmen, which was deemed scandalous. He also incorporated these freedmen in the rural tribes. His tribal reforms were nonetheless cancelled by the next censors, Quintus Fabius Maximus and Publius Decius Mus, his political enemies. Caecus also launched a vast construction program, building the first aqueduct (\"Aqua Appia\"), and the first Roman road (\"Via Appia\").\n\nIn 300, the two tribunes of the plebs Gnaeus and Quintus Ogulnius passed the \"Lex Ogulnia\", which created four plebeian pontiffs, therefore equalling the number of patrician pontiffs, and five plebeian augurs, outnumbering the four patricians in the college. Eventually the Conflict of the Orders ended with the last secession of the plebs in about 287. The details are not known precisely as Livy's books on the period are lost. Debt is once again mentioned by ancient authors, but it seems that the plebs revolted over the distribution of the land conquered on the Samnites. A dictator named Quintus Hortensius was appointed to negotiate with the plebeians, who had retreated to the Janiculum hill, perhaps to dodge the draft in the war against the Lucanians. Hortensius passed the \"Lex Hortensia\" which re-enacted the law of 339, making plebiscites binding on all citizens, but also removed the Senate's prior approval to plebiscites. Popular assemblies were by now sovereign; this put an end to the crisis, and to plebeian agitation for 150 years.\n\nThese events were a political victory of the wealthy plebeian elite who exploited the economic difficulties of the plebs for their own gain, hence why Stolo, Lateranus, and Genucius bound their bills attacking patricians' political supremacy with debt-relief measures. They had indeed little in common with the mass of plebeians; Stolo was noteworthy fined for having exceeded the limit on land occupation he had fixed in his own law. As a result of the end of the patrician monopoly on senior magistracies, many small patrician \"gentes\" faded into history during the 4th and 3rd centuries due to the lack of available positions; the Verginii, Horatii, Menenii, Cloelii all disappear, even the Julii entered a long eclipse. They were replaced by plebeian aristocrats, of whom the most emblematic were the Caecilii Metelli, who received 18 consulships until the end of the Republic; the Domitii, Fulvii, Licinii, Marcii, or Sempronii were as successful. About a dozen remaining patrician \"gentes\" and twenty plebeian ones thus formed a new elite, called the \"nobiles\", or \"Nobilitas\".\n\nBy the beginning of the 3rd century, Rome had established itself as the major power in Italy, but had not yet come into conflict with the dominant military powers of Mediterranean: Carthage and the Greek kingdoms. In 282, several Roman warships entered the harbour of Tarentum, thus breaking a treaty between the Republic and the Greek city, which forbade the Gulf to Roman navy. It triggered a violent reaction from the Tarentine democrats, who sank some of the ships; they were in fact worried that Rome could favour the oligarchs in the city, as it had done with the other Greek cities under its control. The Roman embassy sent to investigate the affair was insulted and war was promptly declared. Facing a hopeless situation, the Tarentines (together with the Lucanians and Samnites) appealed for military aid to Pyrrhus, the very ambitious king of Epirus. A cousin of Alexander the Great, he was eager to build an empire for himself in the western Mediterranean, and saw Tarentum's plea as a perfect opportunity towards this goal.Pyrrhus and his army of 25,500 men (and 20 war elephants) landed in Italy in 280; he was immediately named \"Strategos Autokrator\" by the Tarentines. Publius Valerius Laevinus, the consul sent to face him, rejected the king's negotiation offer, as he had more troops and hoped to cut the invasion short. The Romans were nevertheless defeated at Heraclea, as their cavalry were afraid of the elephants of Pyrrhus, who lost a large chunk of his army. Pyrrhus then marched on Rome, but could not take any Roman city on his way; facing the prospect of being flanked by the two consular armies, he moved back to Tarentum. His adviser, the orator Cineas, made a peace offer before the Roman Senate, asking Rome to return the land it took from the Samnites and Lucanians, and liberate the Greek cities under its control. The offer was rejected after Appius Caecus (the old censor of 312) spoke against it in a celebrated speech, which was the earliest recorded by the time of Cicero. In 279, Pyrrhus met the consuls Publius Decius Mus and Publius Sulpicius Saverrio at the Battle of Asculum, which remained undecided for two days, as the Romans had prepared some special chariots to counter his elephants. Finally, Pyrrhus personally charged into the melee and won the battle, but at the cost of an important part of his troops; he allegedly said \"If we are victorious in one more battle with the Romans, we shall be utterly ruined.\" \n\nHe escaped the Italian deadlock by answering a call for help from Syracuse, which tyrant Thoenon was desperately fighting an invasion from Carthage. Pyrrhus could not let them take the whole island as it would have compromised his ambitions in the western Mediterranean and so declared war on them. At first, his Sicilian campaign was an easy triumph; he was welcomed as a liberator in every Greek city on his way, even receiving the title of king (\"basileus\") of Sicily. The Carthaginians lifted the siege of Syracuse before his arrival, but he could not entirely oust them from the island as he failed to take their fortress of Lilybaeum. His harsh rule, especially the murder of Thoenon, whom he did not trust, soon led to a widespread antipathy among the Sicilians; some cities even defected to Carthage. In 275, Pyrrhus left the island before he had to face a full-scale rebellion. He returned to Italy, where his Samnite allies were on the verge of losing the war, despite their earlier victory at the Cranita hills. Pyrrhus again met the Romans at the Battle of Beneventum; this time the consul Manius Dentatus was victorious, and even captured eight elephants. Pyrrhus then withdrew from Italy, but left a garrison in Tarentum, and waged a new campaign in Greece against Antigonos Gonatas. His death in battle at Argos in 272 forced Tarentum to surrender to Rome. Since it was the last independent city of Italy, Rome now dominated the entire Italian peninsula, and won an international military reputation.\n\nRome and Carthage were initially on friendly terms; Polybius details three treaties between them, the first dating from the first year of the Republic, the second from 348. The last one was an alliance against Pyrrhus. However, tensions rapidly built on after the departure of the Epirote king. Between 288 and 283, Messena in Sicily was taken by the Mamertines, a band of mercenaries formerly employed by Agathocles. They plundered the surroundings until Hiero II, the new tyrant of Syracuse, defeated them (in either 269 or 265). Carthage could not let him take Messena, as he would have controlled its Strait, and garrisoned the city. In effect under a Carthaginian protectorate, the remaining Mamertines appealed to Rome to regain their independence. Senators were divided on whether to help them or not, as it would have meant war with Carthage, since Sicily was in its sphere of influence (the treaties furthermore forbade the island to Rome), and also Syracuse. A supporter of the war, the consul Appius Claudius Caudex (Caecus' brother) turned to the Tribal Assembly to get a favourable vote, by notably promising booty to voters. \n\nCaudex first secured control of the city with ease. However, Syracuse and Carthage, at war for centuries, made an alliance to counter the invasion and blockaded Messena, but Caudex defeated Hiero and Carthage separately. His successor Manius Valerius Corvinus Messalla landed with a strong 40,000 men army that conquered eastern Sicily, which prompted Hiero to shift his allegiance and forge a long lasting alliance with Rome. In 262, the Romans moved to the southern coast and besieged Akragas. In order to raise the siege, Carthage sent reinforcements, including 60 elephants – the first time they used them, but still lost the battle. Nevertheless, as Pyrrhus before, Rome could not take all of Sicily because Carthage's naval superiority prevented them from effectively besieging coastal cities, which could receive supplies from the sea. Using a captured Carthaginian ship as blueprint, Rome therefore launched a massive construction program and built 100 quinqueremes in only two months, perhaps through an assembly line organisation. They also invented a new device, the \"corvus\", a grappling engine which enabled a crew to board on an enemy ship. The consul for 260 Scipio Asina lost the first naval skirmish of the war against Hannibal Gisco at Lipara, but his colleague Gaius Dullius won a great victory at Mylae. He destroyed or captured 44 ships, and was the first Roman to receive a naval triumph, which also included captive Carthaginians for the first time. Although Carthage was victorious on land at Thermae in Sicily, the \"corvus\" made Rome invincible on the waters. The consul Lucius Cornelius Scipio (Asina's brother) captured Corsica in 259; his successors won the naval battles of Sulci in 258, Tyndaris in 257, and Cape Ecnomus in 256.\nIn order to haste the end of the war, the consuls for 256 decided to carry the operations to Africa, on Carthage's homeland. The consul Marcus Atilius Regulus landed on the Cap Bon peninsula with about 18,000 soldiers. He captured the city of Aspis, then repulsed Carthage's counter-attack at Adys, and took Tunis. The Carthaginians supposedly sued him for peace, but his conditions were so harsh that they continued the war instead. They hired Spartan mercenaries, led by Xanthippus, to command their troops. In 255, the Spartan general marched on Regulus, still encamped at Tunis, who accepted the battle to avoid sharing the glory with his successor. However, the flat land near Tunis favoured the Punic elephants, which crushed the Roman infantry on the Bagradas plain; only 2,000 soldiers escaped, and Regulus was captured. The consuls for 255 nonetheless won a new sounding naval victory at Cape Hermaeum, where they captured 114 warships. This success was spoilt by a storm that annihilated the victorious navy: 184 ships on 264 sank, 25.000 soldiers and 75.000 rowers drowned. The \"corvus\" considerably hindered ships' navigation, and made them vulnerable during tempest. It was abandoned after another similar catastrophe took place in 253 (150 ships sank with their crew). These disasters prevented any significant campaign between 254 and 252.\nHostilities in Sicily resumed in 252, with the taking of Thermae by Rome. Carthage countered the following year, by besieging Lucius Caecilius Metellus, who held Panormos (now Palermo). The consul had dug trenches to counter the elephants, which once hurt by missiles turned back on their own army, resulting in a great victory for Metellus, who exhibited some captured beasts in the Circus. Rome then besieged the last Carthaginian strongholds in Sicily, Lilybaeum and Drepana, but these cities were impregnable by land. Publius Claudius Pulcher, the consul of 249, recklessly tried to take the latter from the sea, but he suffered a terrible defeat; his colleague Lucius Junius Pullus likewise lost his fleet off Lilybaeum. Without \"corvus\", Roman warships had lost their advantage. By now, both sides were drained and could not undertake large scale operations; Roman citizenry had indeed been reduced by 17% in 20 years. The only military activity during this period was the landing in Sicily of Hamilcar Barca in 247, who harassed the Romans with a mercenary army from a citadel he built on Mt. Eryx.\n\nFinally, unable to take the Punic fortresses in Sicily, Rome tried to win the decision at sea and built a new navy, thanks to a forced borrowing on the rich. In 242, the 200 quinqueremes of the consul Gaius Lutatius Catulus blockaded Drepana. The rescue fleet from Carthage arrived the next year, but was largely undermanned and soundly defeated by Catulus. Exhausted and unable to bring supplies to Sicily, Carthage sued for peace. Catulus and Hamilcar negotiated a treaty, which was somewhat lenient to Carthage, but the Roman people rejected it and imposed harsher terms: Carthage had to pay 1000 talents immediately and 2200 over ten years, and evacuate Sicily. The fine was so high that Carthage could not pay Hamilcar's mercenaries, who had been shipped back to Africa. They revolted during the Mercenary War, which Carthage had enormous difficulties to suppress. Meanwhile, Rome took advantage of a similar revolt in Sardinia to seize the island from Carthage, in violation of the peace treaty. This stab-in-the-back led to permanent bitterness in Carthage, and revanchism.\n\nAfter its victory, the Republic shifted its attention to its northern border as the Insubres and Boii were threatening Italy. Meanwhile, Carthage compensated the loss of Sicily and Sardinia with the conquest of Southern Hispania (up to Salamanca), and its rich silver mines. This enterprise was the work of the Barcid family, headed by Hamilcar, the former commander in Sicily. Hamilcar nonetheless died against the Oretani in 228; his son-in-law Hasdrubal the Fair – the founder of Carthago Nova – and his three sons Hannibal, Hasdrubal, and Mago, succeeded him. This rapid expansion worried Rome, which concluded a treaty with Hasdrubal in 226, stating that Carthage could not cross the Ebro river. However, the city of Saguntum, located in the south of the Ebro, appealed to Rome in 220 to act as arbitrator during a \"stasis\". Hannibal dismissed Roman rights on the city, and took it in 219. At Rome, the Cornelii and the Aemilii considered the capture of Saguntum a \"casus belli\", and won the debate against Fabius Maximus Verrucosus, who wanted to negotiate. An embassy carrying an ultimatum was sent to Carthage, asking its senate to condemn Hannibal's deeds. The Carthaginian refusal started the Second Punic War.\nInitially, the plan of the Republic was to carry war outside Italy, by sending the consuls Publius Cornelius Scipio to Hispania, and Sempronius Longus to Africa, while their naval superiority prevented Carthage from attacking from the sea. This plan was thwarted by Hannibal's bold move to Italy. In May 218, he indeed crossed the Ebro with a large army of about 100,000 soldiers and 37 elephants. He passed in Gaul, crossed the Rhone, then the Alps, possibly through the Col de Clapier (2,491 meters high). This famous exploit cost him half of his troops, but he could now rely on the Boii and Insubres, still at war with Rome. Publius Scipio, who had failed to block Hannibal on the Rhone, sent his elder brother Gnaeus with the main part of his army in Hispania according to the initial plan, and went back to Italy with the rest to resist Hannibal in Italy, but he was defeated and wounded near Pavia.\n\nHannibal then marched south and won three outstanding victories. The first one was on the banks of the Trebia in December 218, where he defeated the other consul Sempronius Longus thanks to his brother Mago, who had concealed some elite troops behind the legions and attacked them from the rear once fighting Hannibal. More than half of the Roman army was lost. Hannibal then ravaged the country around Arretium to lure the new consul Gaius Flaminius into a trap, at the Lake Trasimene. He had hidden his troops in the hills surrounding the lake and attacked Flaminius when he was cornered on the shore. This clever ambush resulted in the death of the consul and the complete destruction his army of 30,000 men. In 216, the new consuls Aemilius Paullus and Terentius Varro mustered the biggest army possible, with eight legions (more than 80,000 soldiers) – twice as many as the Punic army – and confronted Hannibal, who was encamped at Cannae, in Apulia. Despite his numerical disadvantage, Hannibal used his heavier cavalry to rout the Roman wings and envelope their infantry, whom he annihilated. In terms of casualties, the Battle of Cannae was the worst defeat in the history of Rome: only 14,500 soldiers escaped; Paullus was killed as well as well as 80 senators. Soon after, the Boii ambushed the army of the consul-elect for 215, Postumius Albinus, who died with all his army of 25,000 men in the Forest of Litana. \n\nThese disasters triggered a wave of defection among Roman allies, with the rebellions of the Samnites, Oscans, Lucanians, and Greek cities of Southern Italy. In Macedonia, Philip V also made an alliance with Hannibal in order to take Illyria and the area around Epidamnus, occupied by Rome. His attack on Apollonia started the First Macedonian War. In 215, Hiero II of Syracuse died of old age, and his young grandson Hieronymus broke the long alliance with Rome to side with Carthage. At this desperate point, the aggressive strategy against Hannibal advocated by the Scipii was abandoned in favour of delaying tactics that avoided direct confrontation with him. Its main proponents were the consuls Fabius Maximus Verrucosus, nicknamed \"Cunctator\" (\"the delayer\"), Claudius Marcellus, and Fulvius Flaccus. The \"Fabian Strategy\" favoured a slow reconquest of the lost territories, since Hannibal could not be everywhere to defend them. Although he remained invincible on the battlefield, defeating all the Roman armies on his way, he could not prevent Claudius Marcellus from taking Syracuse in 212 after a long siege, nor the fall of his bases of Capua and Tarentum in 211 and 209. However, in 208 the consuls Claudius Marcellus and Quinctius Crispinus were ambushed and killed near Venusia. \n\nIn Hispania, the situation was overall much better for Rome. This theatre was mostly commanded by the brothers Publius and Gnaeus Scipio, who won the battles of Cissa in 218, soon after Hannibal's departure, and Dertosa against his brother Hasdrubal in 215, which enabled them to conquer the eastern coast of Hispania. In 211 however, Hasdrubal and Mago Barca successfully returned the Celtiberian tribes that supported the Scipii, and attacked them simultaneously at the Battle of the Upper Baetis, in which the Scipii brothers died. Publius' son, the future Scipio Africanus, was then elected with a special proconsulship to lead the Hispanic campaign. He soon showed outstanding skills as commander, by winning a series of battles with ingenious tactics. In 209, he took Carthago Nova, the main Punic base in Hispania, then defeated Hasdrubal at the Battle of Baecula (208). After his defeat, Hasdrubal was ordered by Carthage to move to Italy. Since he could not use ships, he followed the same route as his brother through the Alps, but this time the surprise effect was gone. The consuls Livius Salinator and Claudius Nero were awaiting him and won the Battle of the Metaurus, where Hasdrubal died. It was the turning point of the war. The attrition campaign had indeed worked well: Hannibal's troops were now depleted; he only had one elephant left (Surus) and retreated to Bruttium, on the defensive. In Greece, Rome contained Philip V without devoting too much forces, by setting an alliance with the Aetolian League, Sparta, and Pergamon, which also prevented Philip from aiding Hannibal. The war resulted in a stalemate, with the Treaty of Phoenice signed in 205.\nIn Hispania, Scipio continued his triumphal campaign at the battles of Carmona in 207, and Ilipa (now Seville) in 206, which ended the Punic threat on the peninsula. Elected consul in 205, he convinced the senate to cancel the Fabian Strategy, and instead to invade Africa by using the support of the Numidian king Massinissa, who had defected to Rome. Scipio landed in Africa in 204. He took Utica, then won the Battle of the Great Plains, which prompted Carthage to recall Hannibal from Italy and open peace negotiations with Rome. The talks nevertheless failed because Scipio wanted to impose harsher terms on Carthage, in order to avoid it from rising again as a threat to Rome. Hannibal was therefore sent to face Scipio at Zama. Scipio could now use the heavy Numidian cavalry of Massinissa – which had hitherto been so successful against Rome – to rout the Punic wings, then flank the infantry, as Hannibal had done at Cannae. Defeated for the first time, Hannibal convinced the Carthaginian senate to pay the war indemnity, which was even harsher than that of 241: 10,000 talents in 50 instalments. Carthage furthermore had to give up all its elephants, all its fleet but ten triremes, all its possessions outside its core territory in Africa (what is now Tunisia), and could not declare war without the authorisation of Rome. In effect, Carthage was condemned to be a minor power, while Rome recovered from a desperate situation to dominate the Western Mediterranean.\n\nRome's preoccupation with its war with Carthage provided an opportunity for Philip V of the kingdom of Macedonia, located in the north of the Greek peninsula, to attempt to extend his power westward. Philip sent ambassadors to Hannibal's camp in Italy, to negotiate an alliance as common enemies of Rome. However, Rome discovered the agreement when Philip's emissaries were captured by a Roman fleet. The First Macedonian War saw the Romans involved directly in only limited land operations, but they ultimately achieved their objective of pre-occupying Philip and preventing him from aiding Hannibal.\n\nThe past century had seen the Greek world dominated by the three primary successor kingdoms of Alexander the Great's empire: Ptolemaic Egypt, Macedonia and the Seleucid Empire. In 202, internal problems led to a weakening of Egypt's position, thereby disrupting the power balance among the successor states. Macedonia and the Seleucid Empire agreed to an alliance to conquer and divide Egypt. Fearing this increasingly unstable situation, several small Greek kingdoms sent delegations to Rome to seek an alliance. The delegation succeeded, even though prior Greek attempts to involve Rome in Greek affairs had been met with Roman apathy. Our primary source about these events, the surviving works of Polybius, do not state Rome's reason for getting involved. Rome gave Philip an ultimatum to cease his campaigns against Rome's new Greek allies. Doubting Rome's strength (a reasonable doubt, given Rome's performance in the First Macedonian War) Philip ignored the request, and Rome sent an army of Romans and Greek allies, beginning the Second Macedonian War. Despite his recent successes against the Greeks and earlier successes against Rome, Philip's army buckled under the pressure from the Roman-Greek army. In 197, the Romans decisively defeated Philip at the Battle of Cynoscephalae, and Philip was forced to give up his recent Greek conquests. The Romans declared the \"Peace of the Greeks\", believing that Philip's defeat now meant that Greece would be stable. They pulled out of Greece entirely, maintaining minimal contacts with their Greek allies.\n\nWith Egypt and Macedonia weakened, the Seleucid Empire made increasingly aggressive and successful attempts to conquer the entire Greek world. Now not only Rome's allies against Philip, but even Philip himself, sought a Roman alliance against the Seleucids. The situation was made worse by the fact that Hannibal was now a chief military advisor to the Seleucid emperor, and the two were believed to be planning an outright conquest not just of Greece, but of Rome itself. The Seleucids were much stronger than the Macedonians had ever been, because they controlled much of the former Persian Empire, and by now had almost entirely reassembled Alexander the Great's former empire.\nFearing the worst, the Romans began a major mobilization, all but pulling out of recently pacified Spain and Gaul. They even established a major garrison in Sicily in case the Seleucids ever got to Italy. This fear was shared by Rome's Greek allies, who had largely ignored Rome in the years after the Second Macedonian War, but now followed Rome again for the first time since that war. A major Roman-Greek force was mobilized under the command of the great hero of the Second Punic War, Scipio Africanus, and set out for Greece, beginning the Roman-Syrian War. After initial fighting that revealed serious Seleucid weaknesses, the Seleucids tried to turn the Roman strength against them at the Battle of Thermopylae (as they believed the 300 Spartans had done centuries earlier). Like the Spartans, the Seleucids lost the battle, and were forced to evacuate Greece. The Romans pursued the Seleucids by crossing the Hellespont, which marked the first time a Roman army had ever entered Asia. The decisive engagement was fought at the Battle of Magnesia, resulting in a complete Roman victory. The Seleucids sued for peace, and Rome forced them to give up their recent Greek conquests. Although they still controlled a great deal of territory, this defeat marked the decline of their empire, as they were to begin facing increasingly aggressive subjects in the east (the Parthians) and the west (the Greeks). Their empire disintegrated into a rump over the course of the next century, when it was eclipsed by Pontus. Following Magnesia, Rome again withdrew from Greece, assuming (or hoping) that the lack of a major Greek power would ensure a stable peace. In fact, it did the opposite.\n\nIn 179 Philip died. His talented and ambitious son, Perseus, took the throne and showed a renewed interest in conquering Greece. With her Greek allies facing a major new threat, Rome declared war on Macedonia again, starting the Third Macedonian War. Perseus initially had some success against the Romans. However, Rome responded by sending a stronger army. This second consular army decisively defeated the Macedonians at the Battle of Pydna in 168 and the Macedonians duly capitulated, ending the war.\n\nConvinced now that the Greeks (and therefore the rest of the region) would not have peace if left alone, Rome decided to establish its first permanent foothold in the Greek world, and divided the Kingdom of Macedonia into four client republics. Yet, Macedonian agitation continued. The Fourth Macedonian War, 150 to 148 BC, was fought against a Macedonian pretender to the throne who was again destabilizing Greece by trying to re-establish the old kingdom. The Romans swiftly defeated the Macedonians at the Second battle of Pydna.\n\nThe Achaean League chose this moment to fight Rome but was swiftly defeated. In 146 (the same year as the destruction of Carthage), Corinth was besieged and destroyed, which led to the league's surrender. After nearly a century of constant crisis management in Greece, which always led back to internal instability and war when she withdrew, Rome decided to divide Macedonia into two new Roman provinces, Achaea and Macedonia.\n\nCarthage never recovered militarily after the Second Punic War, but quickly did so economically and the Third Punic War that followed was in reality a simple punitive mission after the neighbouring Numidians allied to Rome robbed/attacked Carthaginian merchants. Treaties had forbidden any war with Roman allies, and defence against robbing/pirates was considered as \"war action\": Rome decided to annihilate the city of Carthage. Carthage was almost defenceless, and submitted when besieged. However, the Romans demanded complete surrender and removal of the city into the (desert) inland far off any coastal or harbour region, and the Carthaginians refused. The city was besieged, stormed, and completely destroyed.\n\nUltimately, all of Carthage's North African and Iberian territories were acquired by Rome. Note that \"Carthage\" was not an 'empire', but a league of Punic colonies (port cities in the western Mediterranean) like the 1st and 2nd Athenian (\"Attic\") leagues, under leadership of Carthage. Punic Carthage was gone, but the other Punic cities in the western Mediterranean flourished under Roman rule.\n\nRome's rapid expansion destabilised its social organisation and triggered unrest in its core territory, which ultimately led to several revolts and a civil war. The period is marked by the rise of strong men (Marius, then Sulla, Pompey, and to a lesser extent Crassus), who exploited their military successes to control the political system.\n\nIn 135, the first slave uprising, known as the First Servile War, broke out in Sicily. After initial successes, the slaves led by Eunus and Cleon were annihilated by the consul Publius Rupilius in 132.\n\nIn this context, Tiberius Gracchus was elected tribune in 133. He attempted to enact a law which would have limited the amount of land that any individual could own. The aristocrats, who stood to lose an enormous amount of money, were bitterly opposed to this proposal. Tiberius submitted this law to the Plebeian Council, but the law was vetoed by a tribune named Marcus Octavius. Tiberius then used the Plebeian Council to impeach Octavius. The theory, that a representative of the people ceases to be one when he acts against the wishes of the people, was counter to Roman constitutional theory. If carried to its logical end, this theory would remove all constitutional restraints on the popular will, and put the state under the absolute control of a temporary popular majority. His law was enacted, but Tiberius was murdered with 300 of his associates when he stood for reelection to the tribunate.\n\nTiberius' brother Gaius was elected tribune in 123. Gaius Gracchus' ultimate goal was to weaken the senate and to strengthen the democratic forces. In the past, for example, the senate would eliminate political rivals either by establishing special judicial commissions or by passing a\n\"senatus consultum ultimum\" (\"ultimate decree of the senate\"). Both devices would allow the Senate to bypass the ordinary due process rights that all citizens had. Gaius outlawed the judicial commissions, and declared the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" to be unconstitutional. Gaius then proposed a law which would grant citizenship rights to Rome's Italian allies. This last proposal was not popular with the plebeians and he lost much of his support. He stood for election to a third term in 121, but was defeated and then murdered by representatives of the senate with 3,000 of his supporters on Capitoline Hill in Rome.\n\nIn 121, the province of Gallia Narbonensis was established after the victory of Quintus Fabius Maximus over a coalition of Arverni and Allobroges in southern Gaul in 123. The city of Narbo was founded there in 118 by Lucius Licinius Crassus.\n\nThe Jugurthine War of 111–104 was fought between Rome and Jugurtha of the North African kingdom of Numidia. It constituted the final Roman pacification of Northern Africa, after which Rome largely ceased expansion on the continent after reaching natural barriers of desert and mountain. Following Jugurtha's usurpation of the throne of Numidia, a loyal ally of Rome since the Punic Wars, Rome felt compelled to intervene. Jugurtha impudently bribed the Romans into accepting his usurpation. Jugurtha was finally captured not in battle but by treachery.\n\nIn 118, King Micipsa of Numidia (current-day Algeria and Tunisia) died. He was succeeded by two legitimate sons, Adherbal and Hiempsal, and an illegitimate son, Jugurtha. Micipsa divided his kingdom between these three sons. Jugurtha, however, turned on his brothers, killing Hiempsal and driving Adherbal out of Numidia. Adherbal fled to Rome for assistance, and initially Rome mediated a division of the country between the two brothers. Eventually, Jugurtha renewed his offensive, leading to a long and inconclusive war with Rome. He also bribed several Roman commanders, and at least two tribunes, before and during the war. His nemesis, Gaius Marius, a legate from a virtually unknown provincial family, returned from the war in Numidia and was elected consul in 107 over the objections of the aristocratic senators. Marius invaded Numidia and brought the war to a quick end, capturing Jugurtha in the process. The apparent incompetence of the Senate, and the brilliance of Marius, had been put on full display. The \"populares\" party took full advantage of this opportunity by allying itself with Marius.\nThe Cimbrian War (113–101) was a far more serious affair than the earlier clashes of 121. The Germanic tribes of the \"Cimbri\" and the \"Teutons\" migrated from northern Europe into Rome's northern territories, and clashed with Rome and her allies. At the Battle of Aquae Sextiae and the Battle of Vercellae both tribes were virtually annihilated, which ended the threat.\n\nIn 91 the Social War broke out between Rome and its former allies in Italy when the allies complained that they shared the risk of Rome's military campaigns, but not its rewards. Although they lost militarily, the allies achieved their objectives with legal proclamations which granted citizenship to more than 500,000 Italians.\n\nThe internal unrest reached its most serious state, however, in the two civil wars that were caused by the clash between generals Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla starting from 88. In the Battle of the Colline Gate at the very door of the city of Rome, a Roman army under Sulla bested an army of the Marius supporters and entered the city. Sulla's actions marked a watershed in the willingness of Roman troops to wage war against one another that was to pave the way for the wars which ultimately overthrew the Republic, and caused the founding of the Roman Empire.\n\nSeveral years later, in 88, a Roman army was sent to put down an emerging Asian power, king Mithridates of Pontus. The army, however, was not defeated and won. One of Marius' old quaestors, Lucius Cornelius Sulla, had been elected consul for the year, and was ordered by the senate to assume command of the war against Mithridates. Marius, a member of the \"\"populares\" party, had a tribune revoke Sulla's command of the war against Mithridates. Sulla, a member of the aristocratic (\"optimates\"\") party, brought his army back to Italy and marched on Rome. Sulla was so angry at Marius' tribune that he passed a law intended to permanently weaken the tribunate. He then returned to his war against Mithridates. With Sulla gone, the \"populares\" under Marius and Lucius Cornelius Cinna soon took control of the city.\n\nDuring the period in which the \"populares\" party controlled the city, they flouted convention by re-electing Marius consul several times without observing the customary ten-year interval between offices. They also transgressed the established oligarchy by advancing unelected individuals to magisterial office, and by substituting magisterial edicts for popular legislation. Sulla soon made peace with Mithridates. In 83, he returned to Rome, overcame all resistance, and recaptured the city. Sulla and his supporters then slaughtered most of Marius' supporters. Sulla, having observed the violent results of radical \"popular\" reforms, was naturally conservative. As such, he sought to strengthen the aristocracy, and by extension the senate. Sulla made himself dictator, passed a series of constitutional reforms, resigned the dictatorship, and served one last term as consul. He died in 78.\nThe third and final uprising was the most serious, involving ultimately between 120,000 and 150,000 slaves under the command of the gladiator Spartacus.\nMithridates the Great was the ruler of Pontus, a large kingdom in Asia Minor (modern Turkey), from 120 to 63. Mithridates antagonised Rome by seeking to expand his kingdom, and Rome for its part seemed equally eager for war and the spoils and prestige that it might bring. In 88, Mithridates ordered the killing of a majority of the 80,000 Romans living in his kingdom. The massacre was the official reason given for the commencement of hostilities in the First Mithridatic War. The Roman general Lucius Cornelius Sulla forced Mithridates out of Greece proper, but then had to return to Italy to answer the internal threat posed by his rival, Gaius Marius. A peace was made between Rome and Pontus, but this proved only a temporary lull.\n\nThe Second Mithridatic War began when Rome tried to annex a province that Mithridates claimed as his own. In the Third Mithridatic War, first Lucius Licinius Lucullus and then Pompey the Great were sent against Mithridates and his Armenian ally Tigranes the Great. Mithridates was finally defeated by Pompey in the night-time Battle of the Lycus.\nThe Mediterranean had at this time fallen into the hands of pirates, largely from Cilicia. The pirates not only strangled shipping lanes but also plundered many cities on the coasts of Greece and Asia. Pompey was nominated as commander of a special naval task force to campaign against the pirates. It took Pompey just forty days to clear the western portion of the sea of pirates and restore communication between Iberia (Spain), Africa, and Italy.\n\nIn 77, the senate sent one of Sulla's former lieutenants, Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (\"Pompey the Great\"), to put down an uprising in Hispania. By 71, Pompey returned to Rome after having completed his mission. Around the same time, another of Sulla's former lieutenants, Marcus Licinius Crassus, had just put down the Spartacus-led gladiator/slave revolt in Italy. Upon their return, Pompey and Crassus found the \"populares\" party fiercely attacking Sulla's constitution. They attempted to forge an agreement with the \"populares\" party. If both Pompey and Crassus were elected consul in 70, they would dismantle the more obnoxious components of Sulla's constitution. The two were soon elected, and quickly dismantled most of Sulla's constitution.\nAround 66, a movement to use constitutional, or at least peaceful, means to address the plight of various classes began. After several failures, the movement's leaders decided to use any means that were necessary to accomplish their goals. The movement coalesced under an aristocrat named Lucius Sergius Catilina. The movement was based in the town of Faesulae, which was not a natural hotbed of agrarian agitation. The rural malcontents were to advance on Rome, and be aided by an uprising within the city. After assassinating the consuls and most of the senators, Catiline would be free to enact his reforms. The conspiracy was set in motion in 63. The consul for the year, Marcus Tullius Cicero, intercepted messages that Catiline had sent in an attempt to recruit more members. As a result, the top conspirators in Rome (including at least one former consul) were executed by authorisation (of dubious constitutionality) of the senate, and the planned uprising was disrupted. Cicero then sent an army, which cut Catiline's forces to pieces.\n\nThe most important result of the Catilinarian conspiracy was that the \"populares\" party became discredited. The prior 70 years had witnessed a gradual erosion in senatorial powers. The violent nature of the conspiracy, in conjunction with the senate's skill in disrupting it, did a great deal to repair the senate's image.\n\nIn 62, Pompey returned victorious from Asia. The Senate, elated by its successes against Catiline, refused to ratify the arrangements that Pompey had made. Pompey, in effect, became powerless. Thus, when Julius Caesar returned from a governorship in Spain in 61, he found it easy to make an arrangement with Pompey. Caesar and Pompey, along with Crassus, established a private agreement, now known as the First Triumvirate. Under the agreement, Pompey's arrangements would be ratified. Caesar would be elected consul in 59, and would then serve as governor of Gaul for five years. Crassus was promised a future consulship.\n\nBy 59 an unofficial political alliance known as the First Triumvirate was formed between Gaius Julius Caesar, Marcus Licinius Crassus, and Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (\"Pompey the Great\") to share power and influence.\n\nCaesar became consul in 59. His colleague, Marcus Calpurnius Bibulus, was an extreme aristocrat. Caesar submitted the laws that he had promised Pompey to the assemblies. Bibulus attempted to obstruct the enactment of these laws, and so Caesar used violent means to ensure their passage. Caesar was then made governor of three provinces. He facilitated the election of the former patrician Publius Clodius Pulcher to the tribunate for 58. Clodius set about depriving Caesar's senatorial enemies of two of their more obstinate leaders in Cato and Cicero. Clodius was a bitter opponent of Cicero because Cicero had testified against him in a sacrilege case. Clodius attempted to try Cicero for executing citizens without a trial during the Catiline conspiracy, resulting in Cicero going into self-imposed exile and his house in Rome being burnt down. Clodius also passed a bill that forced Cato to lead the invasion of Cyprus which would keep him away from Rome for some years. Clodius also passed a law to expand the previous partial grain subsidy to a fully free grain dole for citizens.\n\nDuring his term as praetor in the Iberian Peninsula (modern Portugal and Spain), Pompey's contemporary Julius Caesar defeated two local tribes in battle. After his term as consul in 59, he was appointed to a five-year term as the proconsular Governor of Cisalpine Gaul (part of current northern Italy), Transalpine Gaul (current southern France) and Illyria (part of the modern Balkans). Not content with an idle governorship, Caesar strove to find reason to invade Gaul (modern France and Belgium), which would give him the dramatic military success he sought. When two local tribes began to migrate on a route that would take them near (not into) the Roman province of Transalpine Gaul, Caesar had the barely sufficient excuse he needed for his Gallic Wars, fought between 58 and 49.\n\nCaesar defeated large armies at major battles 58 and 57. In 55 and 54 he made two expeditions into Britain, the first Roman to do so. Caesar then defeated a union of Gauls at the Battle of Alesia, completing the Roman conquest of Transalpine Gaul. By 50, all of Gaul lay in Roman hands.\n\nIn 53, Crassus launched a Roman invasion of the Parthian Empire (modern Iraq and Iran). After initial successes, he marched his army deep into the desert; but here his army was cut off deep in enemy territory, surrounded and slaughtered at the Battle of Carrhae in which Crassus himself perished. The death of Crassus removed some of the balance in the Triumvirate and, consequently, Caesar and Pompey began to move apart. While Caesar was fighting in Gaul, Pompey proceeded with a legislative agenda for Rome that revealed that he was at best ambivalent towards Caesar and perhaps now covertly allied with Caesar's political enemies. In 51, some Roman senators demanded that Caesar not be permitted to stand for consul unless he turned over control of his armies to the state, which would have left Caesar defenceless before his enemies. Caesar chose civil war over laying down his command and facing trial.\n\nClodius formed armed gangs that terrorised the city and eventually began to attack Pompey's followers, who in response funded counter-gangs formed by Titus Annius Milo. The political alliance of the triumvirate was crumbling. Domitius Ahenobarbus ran for the consulship in 55 promising to take Caesar's command from him. Eventually, the triumvirate was renewed at Lucca. Pompey and Crassus were promised the consulship in 55, and Caesar's term as governor was extended for five years. Crassus led an ill-fated expedition with legions led by his son, Caesar's lieutenant, against the Kingdom of Parthia. This resulted in his defeat and death at the Battle of Carrhae. Finally, Pompey's wife, Julia, who was Caesar's daughter, died in childbirth. This event severed the last remaining bond between Pompey and Caesar.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 54, a wave of political corruption and violence swept Rome. This chaos reached a climax in January of 52 BC, when Clodius was murdered in a gang war by Milo.\n\nOn 1 January 49, an agent of Caesar presented an ultimatum to the senate. The ultimatum was rejected, and the senate then passed a resolution which declared that if Caesar did not lay down his arms by July of that year, he would be considered an enemy of the Republic. Meanwhile, the senators adopted Pompey as their new champion against Caesar. On 7 January of 49, the senate passed a \"senatus consultum ultimum\", which vested Pompey with dictatorial powers. Pompey's army, however, was composed largely of untested conscripts. On 10 January, Caesar crossed the Rubicon with his veteran army (in violation of Roman laws) and marched towards Rome. Caesar's rapid advance forced Pompey, the consuls and the senate to abandon Rome for Greece. Caesar entered the city unopposed.\n\nBy the spring of 49, the hardened legions of Caesar crossed the river Rubicon, the legal boundary of Roman Italy beyond which no commander might bring his army, and swept down the Italian peninsula towards Rome, while Pompey ordered the abandonment of Rome. Afterwards Caesar turned his attention to the Pompeian stronghold of Hispania (modern Spain) but decided to tackle Pompey himself in Greece. Pompey initially defeated Caesar, but failed to follow up on the victory, and was decisively defeated at the Battle of Pharsalus in 48, despite outnumbering Caesar's forces two to one, albeit with inferior quality troops. Pompey fled again, this time to Egypt, where he was murdered.\n\nPompey's death did not end the civil war, as Caesar's many enemies fought on. In 46 Caesar lost perhaps as much as a third of his army, but ultimately came back to defeat the Pompeian army of Metellus Scipio in the Battle of Thapsus, after which the Pompeians retreated yet again to Hispania. Caesar then defeated the combined Pompeian forces at the Battle of Munda.\n\nWith Pompey defeated and order restored, Caesar wanted to achieve undisputed control over the government. The powers which he gave himself were later assumed by his imperial successors. His assumption of these powers decreased the authority of Rome's other political institutions.\n\nCaesar held both the dictatorship and the tribunate, and alternated between the consulship and the proconsulship. In 48, Caesar was given permanent tribunician powers. This made his person sacrosanct, gave him the power to veto the senate, and allowed him to dominate the Plebeian Council. In 46, Caesar was given censorial powers, which he used to fill the senate with his own partisans. Caesar then raised the membership of the Senate to 900. This robbed the senatorial aristocracy of its prestige, and made it increasingly subservient to him. While the assemblies continued to meet, he submitted all candidates to the assemblies for election, and all bills to the assemblies for enactment. Thus, the assemblies became powerless and were unable to oppose him.\n\nNear the end of his life, Caesar began to prepare for a war against the Parthian Empire. Since his absence from Rome would limit his ability to install his own consuls, he passed a law before his death which allowed him to appoint all magistrates, and later all consuls and tribunes. This transformed the magistrates from representatives of the people to representatives of the dictator.\n\nCaesar was now the primary figure of the Roman state, enforcing and entrenching his powers. His enemies feared that he had ambitions to become an autocratic ruler. Arguing that the Roman Republic was in danger, a group of senators hatched a conspiracy and assassinated Caesar at a meeting of the Senate in March 44.\n\nCaesar was assassinated on 15 March 44. The assassination was led by Gaius Cassius and Marcus Brutus. Most of the conspirators were senators, who had a variety of economic, political, or personal motivations for carrying out the assassination. Many were afraid that Caesar would soon resurrect the monarchy and declare himself king. Others feared loss of property or prestige as Caesar carried out his land reforms in favor of the landless classes. Virtually all the conspirators fled the city after Caesar's death in fear of retaliation. The civil war that followed destroyed what was left of the Republic.\n\nMark Antony, Caesar's lieutenant, condemned Caesar's assassination, and war broke out between the two factions. Antony was denounced as a public enemy, and Caesar's adopted son and chosen heir, Gaius Octavianus, was entrusted with the command of the war against him. At the Battle of Mutina Mark Antony was defeated by the consuls Hirtius and Pansa, who were both killed.\nOctavian came to terms with Caesarians Antony and Marcus Aemilius Lepidus in 43 when the Second Triumvirate was formed. In 42 Mark Antony and Octavian fought the Battle of Philippi against Caesar's assassins Brutus and Cassius. Although Brutus defeated Octavian, Antony defeated Cassius, who committed suicide. Brutus did likewise soon afterwards.\n\nAfter the assassination, Marcus Antonius (Mark Antony) formed an alliance with Caesar's adopted son and great-nephew, Gaius Octavianus (Octavian). Along with Marcus Lepidus, they formed an alliance known as the Second Triumvirate. They held powers that were nearly identical to the powers that Caesar had held under his constitution. As such, the Senate and assemblies remained powerless, even after Caesar had been assassinated. The conspirators were then defeated at the Battle of Philippi in 42. Eventually, however, Antony and Octavian fought against each other in one last battle. Antony was defeated in the naval Battle of Actium in 31, and he committed suicide with his lover, Cleopatra. In 29, Octavian returned to Rome as the unchallenged master of the Empire and later accepted the title of Augustus (\"Exalted One\"). He was convinced that only a single strong ruler could restore order in Rome.\n\nHowever, civil war flared again when the Second Triumvirate of Octavian, Lepidus and Mark Antony failed. The ambitious Octavian built a power base of patronage and then launched a campaign against Mark Antony. At the naval Battle of Actium in 31 off the coast of Greece, Octavian decisively defeated Antony and Cleopatra of Ptolemaic Egypt. Octavian was granted a series of special powers including sole \"imperium\" within the city of Rome, permanent consular powers and credit for every Roman military victory, since all future generals were assumed to be acting under his command. In 27 Octavian was granted the use of the names \"Augustus\", indicating his primary status above all other Romans, \"Princeps\", which he used to refer to himself as in public, and he adopted the title \"Imperator Caesar\" making him the first Roman Emperor.\n\nThe constitutional history of the Roman Republic began with the revolution which overthrew the monarchy in 509, and ended with constitutional reforms that transformed the Republic into what would effectively be the Roman Empire, in 27. The Constitution of the Roman Republic was a constantly-evolving, unwritten set of guidelines and principles passed down mainly through precedent, by which the government and its politics operated. Throughout the history of the Republic, changes in the constitution were driven by conflicts of interest between the aristocracy and ordinary citizens.\n\nThe senate's ultimate authority derived from the esteem and prestige of the senators. This esteem and prestige was based on both precedent and custom, as well as the caliber and reputation of the senators. The senate passed decrees, which were called \"senatus consulta\". These were officially \"advice\" from the senate to a magistrate. In practice, however, they were usually followed by the magistrates. The focus of the Roman senate was usually directed towards foreign policy. Though it technically had no official role in the management of military conflict, the senate ultimately was the force that oversaw such affairs. The power of the senate expanded over time as the power of the legislative assemblies declined, and the senate took a greater role in ordinary law-making. Its members were usually appointed by Roman Censors, who ordinarily selected newly elected magistrates for membership in the senate, making the senate a partially elected body. During times of military emergency, such as the civil wars of the 1st century, this practice became less prevalent, as the Roman Dictator, Triumvir or the senate itself would select its members. Towards the end of the Republic, the senate could enact a \"senatus consultus ultimum\" in times of emergency, instead of appointing a dictator.\n\nThe legal status of Roman citizenship was limited and was a vital prerequisite to possessing many important legal rights such as the right to trial and appeal, to marry, to vote, to hold office, to enter binding contracts, and to special tax exemptions. An adult male citizen with the full complement of legal and political rights was called \"optimo jure.\" The optimo jure elected their assemblies, whereupon the assemblies elected magistrates, enacted legislation, presided over trials in capital cases, declared war and peace, and forged or dissolved treaties. There were two types of legislative assemblies. The first was the \"comitia\" (\"committees\"), which were assemblies of all optimo jure. The second was the \"concilia\" (\"councils\"), which were assemblies of specific groups of optimo jure.\n\nCitizens were organized on the basis of centuries and tribes, which would each gather into their own assemblies. The Comitia Centuriata (\"Centuriate Assembly\") was the assembly of the centuries (i.e., soldiers). The president of the Comitia Centuriata was usually a consul. The centuries would vote, one at a time, until a measure received support from a majority of the centuries. The Comitia Centuriata would elect magistrates who had the \"imperium\" powers (consuls and praetors). It also elected censors. Only the Comitia Centuriata could declare war, and ratify the results of a census. It also served as the highest court of appeal in certain judicial cases.\n\nThe assembly of the tribes (i.e., the citizens of Rome), the Comitia Tributa, was presided over by a consul, and was composed of 35 tribes. The tribes were not ethnic or kinship groups, but rather geographical subdivisions. The order that the thirty-five tribes would vote in was selected randomly by lot. Once a measure received support from a majority of the tribes, the voting would end. While it did not pass many laws, the Comitia Tributa did elect quaestors, curule aediles, and military tribunes. The Plebeian Council was identical to the assembly of the tribes, but excluded the patricians. They elected their own officers, plebeian tribunes and plebeian aediles. Usually a plebeian tribune would preside over the assembly. This assembly passed most laws, and could also act as a court of appeal.\n\nEach republican magistrate held certain constitutional powers. In addition, each was assigned a \"provincia\" by the Senate. This was the scope of that particular office holder's authority. It could apply to a geographic area or to a particular responsibility or task. The powers of a magistrate came from the people of Rome (both plebeians \"and\" patricians). The \"imperium\" was held by both consuls and praetors. Strictly speaking, it was the authority to command a military force. In reality, however, it carried broad authority in the other public spheres such as diplomacy, and the justice system. In extreme cases, those with the imperium power were able to sentence Roman Citizens to death. All magistrates also had the power of \"coercitio\" (coercion). This was used by magistrates to maintain public order by imposing punishment for crimes. Magistrates also had both the power and the duty to look for omens. This power could also be used to obstruct political opponents.\n\nOne check on a magistrate's power was called \"Collega\" (collegiality). Each magisterial office would be held concurrently by at least two people. Another such check was \"provocatio\". While in Rome, all citizens were protected from coercion, by \"provocatio\", which was an early form of due process. It was a precursor to \"habeas corpus\". If any magistrate tried to use the powers of the state against a citizen, that citizen could appeal the decision of the magistrate to a tribune. In addition, once a magistrate's one-year term of office expired, he would have to wait ten years before serving in that office again. This created problems for some consuls and praetors, and these magistrates would occasionally have their \"imperium\" extended. In effect, they would retain the powers of the office (as a promagistrate), without officially holding that office.\n\nThe consuls of the Roman Republic were the highest ranking ordinary magistrates. Each served for one year. They retained several elements of the former kingly regalia, such as the \"toga praetexta\", and the \"fasces\", which represented the power to inflict physical punishment. Consular powers included the kings' former \"power to command\" (\"imperium\") and appointment of new senators. Consuls had supreme power in both civil and military matters. While in the city of Rome, the consuls were the head of the Roman government. They would preside over the senate and the assemblies. While abroad, each consul would command an army. His authority abroad would be nearly absolute. Praetors administered civil law and commanded provincial armies. Every five years, two censors were elected for an 18-month term, during which they would conduct a census. During the census, they could enroll citizens in the senate, or purge them from the senate. Aediles were officers elected to conduct domestic affairs in Rome, such as managing public games and shows. The quaestors would usually assist the consuls in Rome, and the governors in the provinces. Their duties were often financial.\n\nSince the tribunes were considered to be the embodiment of the plebeians, they were sacrosanct. Their sacrosanctity was enforced by a pledge, taken by the plebeians, to kill any person who harmed or interfered with a tribune during his term of office. It was a capital offense to harm a tribune, to disregard his veto, or to otherwise interfere with him. In times of military emergency, a dictator would be appointed for a term of six months. Constitutional government would be dissolved, and the dictator would be the absolute master of the state. When the dictator's term ended, constitutional government would be restored.\n\nRome's military secured Rome's territory and borders, and helped to impose tribute on conquered peoples. Rome's armies had a formidable reputation; but Rome also \"produced [its] share of incompetents\" and catastrophic defeats. Nevertheless, it was generally the fate of Rome's greatest enemies, such as Pyrrhus and Hannibal, to win early battles but lose the war.\n\nDuring this period, Roman soldiers seem to have been modelled after those of the Etruscans to the north, who themselves are believed to have copied their style of warfare from the Greeks. Traditionally, the introduction of the phalanx formation into the Roman army is ascribed to the city's penultimate king, Servius Tullius (ruled 578-534). According to Livy and Dionysius of Halicarnassus, the front rank was composed of the wealthiest citizens, who were able to purchase the best equipment. Each subsequent rank consisted of those with less wealth and poorer equipment than the one before it. The phalanx was effective in large, open spaces, but not on the hilly terrain of the central Italian peninsula. In the 4th century, the Romans replaced it with the more flexible manipular formation. This change is sometimes attributed to Marcus Furius Camillus and placed shortly after the Gallic invasion of 390; more likely, it was copied from Rome's Samnite enemies to the south, following the Second Samnite War (326-304).\n\nDuring this period, an army formation of around 5,000 men (of both heavy and light infantry) was known as a legion. The manipular army was based upon social class, age and military experience. \"Maniples\" were units of 120 men each drawn from a single infantry class. They were typically deployed into three discrete lines based on the three heavy infantry types:\n\n\nThe three infantry classes may have retained some slight parallel to social divisions within Roman society, but at least officially the three lines were based upon age and experience rather than social class. Young, unproven men would serve in the first line, older men with some military experience would serve in the second line, and veteran troops of advanced age and experience would serve in the third line.\n\nThe heavy infantry of the maniples were supported by a number of light infantry and cavalry troops, typically 300 horsemen per manipular legion. The cavalry was drawn primarily from the richest class of equestrians. There was an additional class of troops who followed the army without specific martial roles and were deployed to the rear of the third line. Their role in accompanying the army was primarily to supply any vacancies that might occur in the maniples. The light infantry consisted of 1,200 unarmoured skirmishing troops drawn from the youngest and lower social classes. They were armed with a sword and a small shield, as well as several light javelins.\n\nRome's military confederation with the other peoples of the Italian peninsula meant that half of Rome's army was provided by the Socii, such as the Etruscans, Umbrians, Apulians, Campanians, Samnites, Lucani, Bruttii, and the various southern Greek cities. Polybius states that Rome could draw on 770,000 men at the beginning of the Second Punic War, of which 700,000 were infantry and 70,000 met the requirements for cavalry. Rome's Italian allies would be organized in \"alae\", or \"wings\", roughly equal in manpower to the Roman legions, though with 900 cavalry instead of 300.\nA small navy had operated at a fairly low level after about 300, but it was massively upgraded about forty years later, during the First Punic War. After a period of frenetic construction, the navy mushroomed to a size of more than 400 ships on the Carthaginian (\"Punic\") pattern. Once completed, it could accommodate up to 100,000 sailors and embarked troops for battle. The navy thereafter declined in size.\n\nThe extraordinary demands of the Punic Wars, in addition to a shortage of manpower, exposed the tactical weaknesses of the manipular legion, at least in the short term. In 217, near the beginning of the Second Punic War, Rome was forced to effectively ignore its long-standing principle that its soldiers must be both citizens and property owners. During the 2nd century, Roman territory saw an overall decline in population, partially due to the huge losses incurred during various wars. This was accompanied by severe social stresses and the greater collapse of the middle classes. As a result, the Roman state was forced to arm its soldiers at the expense of the state, which it did not have to do in the past.\n\nThe distinction between the heavy infantry types began to blur, perhaps because the state was now assuming the responsibility of providing standard-issue equipment. In addition, the shortage of available manpower led to a greater burden being placed upon Rome's allies for the provision of allied troops. Eventually, the Romans were forced to begin hiring mercenaries to fight alongside the legions.\n\nIn a process known as the Marian reforms, Roman consul Gaius Marius carried out a programme of reform of the Roman military. In 107, all citizens, regardless of their wealth or social class, were made eligible for entry into the Roman army. This move formalised and concluded a gradual process that had been growing for centuries, of removing property requirements for military service. The distinction among the three heavy infantry classes, which had already become blurred, had collapsed into a single class of heavy legionary infantry. The heavy infantry legionaries were drawn from citizen stock, while non-citizens came to dominate the ranks of the light infantry. The army's higher-level officers and commanders were still drawn exclusively from the Roman aristocracy.\n\nUnlike earlier in the Republic, legionaries were no longer fighting on a seasonal basis to protect their land. Instead, they received standard pay, and were employed by the state on a fixed-term basis. As a consequence, military duty began to appeal most to the poorest sections of society, to whom a salaried pay was attractive. A destabilising consequence of this development was that the proletariat \"acquired a stronger and more elevated position\" within the state.\n\nThe legions of the late Republic were almost entirely heavy infantry. The main legionary sub-unit was a \"cohort\" of approximately 480 infantrymen, further divided into six centuries of 80 men each. Each century comprised 10 \"tent groups\" of 8 men. Cavalry were used as scouts and dispatch riders, rather than as battlefield forces. Legions also contained a dedicated group of artillery crew of perhaps 60 men. Each legion was normally partnered with an approximately equal number of allied (non-Roman) troops.\n\nThe army's most obvious deficiency lay in its shortage of cavalry, especially heavy cavalry. Particularly in the East, Rome's slow-moving infantry legions were often confronted by fast-moving cavalry-troops, and found themselves at a tactical disadvantage.\n\nFollowing Rome's subjugation of the Mediterranean, its navy declined in size although it would undergo short-term upgrading and revitalisation in the late Republic to meet several new demands. Julius Caesar assembled a fleet to cross the English Channel and invade \"Britannia\". Pompey raised a fleet to deal with the Cilician pirates who threatened Rome's Mediterranean trading routes. During the civil war that followed, as many as a thousand ships were either constructed or pressed into service from Greek cities.\n\nCitizen families were headed by the family's oldest male, the \"pater familias\", who was lawfully entitled to exercise complete authority (\"patria potestas\") over family property and all family members. Brutus, co-founder of the Republic, is supposed to have exercised the extreme form of this right when he executed his own sons for treachery. Citizenship offered legal protection and rights, but citizens who offended Rome's traditional moral code could be declared infamous, and lose certain legal and social privileges. Citizenship was also taxable, and undischarged debt was potentially a capital offence. A form of limited, theoretically voluntary slavery (debt bondage, or nexum) allowed wealthy creditors to negotiate payment of debt through bonded service. Poor, landless citizens of the lowest class (\"proletarii\") might contract their sons to a creditor, patron or third party employer to obtain an income, or to pay off family debts. \"Nexum\" was only abolished when slave labour became more readily available, most notably during the Punic wars.\n\nSlaves were simultaneously family members and family property. They could be bought, sold, acquired through warfare, or born and raised within their master's household. They could also buy their freedom with money saved or the offer of future services as a freedman or woman, and their sons could be eligible for citizenship; this degree of social mobility was unusual in the ancient world. Freed slaves and the master who freed them retained certain legal and moral mutual obligations. This was the bottom rung of one of Rome's fundamental social and economic institutions, the client-patron relationship. At the top rung were the senatorial families of the landowning nobility, both patrician and plebeian, bound by shifting allegiances and mutual competition. A plebiscite of 218 forbade senators and their sons to engage in substantial trade or money-lending. A wealthy equestrian class emerged, not subject to the same trading constraints as the senate.\n\nCitizen men and citizen women were expected to marry, produce as many children as possible, and improve - or at worst, conserve - their family's wealth, fortune, and public profile. Marriage offered opportunities for political alliance and social advancement. Patricians usually married in a form known as \"confarreatio\", which transferred the bride from her father's absolute control or \"hand\" (\"manus\") to that of her husband. Patrician status could only be inherited through birth; an early law, introduced by the reactionary Decemviri but rescinded in 445, sought to prevent marriages between patricians and plebeians; any resulting offspring may not have been legally recognised. Among ordinary plebeians, different marriage forms offered married women considerable more freedom than their patrician counterparts, until \"manus\" marriage was replaced by \"free marriage\", in which the wife remained under the legal authority of her absent father, not her husband. Infant mortality was high. Towards the end of the Republic, the birthrate began to fall among the elite. Some wealthy, childless citizens resorted to adoption to provide male heirs for their estates, and to forge political alliances. Adoption was subject to the senate's approval; the notoriously unconventional patrician politician Publius Clodius Pulcher had himself and his family adopted into a plebeian clan, so that he could hold a plebeian tribunate.\n\nThe Republic was created during a time of warfare, economic recession, food shortages, and plebeian debt. In wartime, plebeian farmers were liable to conscription. In peacetime, most depended on whatever cereal crops they could produce on small farming plots, allotted to them by the state, or by patrons. Soil fertility varied from place to place, and natural water sources were unevenly distributed throughout the landscape. In good years, a pleb small-holder might trade a small surplus, to meet his family's needs, or to buy the armatures required for his military service. In other years, crop failure through soil exhaustion, adverse weather, disease or military incursions could lead to poverty, unsupported borrowing, and debt. Nobles invested much of their wealth in ever-larger, more efficient farming units, exploiting a range of soil conditions though mixed farming techniques. As farming was labour-intensive, and military conscription reduced the pool of available manpower, the wealthy increasingly resorted to slave-labour. Well managed agricultural estates helped provide for clients and dependents, support an urban family home, and fund the owner's public and military career. Large estates yielded cash for bribes, and security for borrowing. Later Roman moralists idealised farming as an intrinsically noble occupation: Cincinnatus left off his ploughing reluctantly, to serve as dictator, and returned once his state duties were done.\n\nIn law, land taken by conquest was \"ager publicus\" (public land). In practise, much of it was exploited by the nobility, using slaves rather than free labour. Rome's expansionist wars and colonisations were at least partly driven by the land-hunger of displaced peasants, who must otherwise join the swelling, dependent population of urban \"plebs\". At the end of the second Punic War, Rome added the fertile \"ager Campanus\", suitable for intense cultivation of vines, olives and cereals. Like the grain-fields of Sicily - seized after the same conflict - it was likely farmed extra-legally by leading landowners, using slave-gangs. A portion of Sicily's grain harvest was sent to Rome as tribute, for redistribution by the \"aediles\". The urban \"plebs\" increasingly relied on firstly subsidised, then free grain.\nWith the introduction of aqueducts (from 312), suburban market-farms could be supplied with run-off or waste aqueduct water. Perishable commodities such as flowers (for perfumes, and festival garlands), fresh grapes, vegetables and orchard fruits, and small livestock such as pigs and chickens, could be farmed close to municipal and urban markets. In the early 2nd century Cato the Elder tried to block the illicit tapping of rural aqueducts by the elite, who thus exploited the increased productivity of cheaply bought, formerly \"dry\" farmland; a law was duly passed, but fines for abuses, and taxes on profits, proved more realistic solutions than an outright ban. Food surpluses, no matter how obtained, kept prices low. Faced with increasing competition from provincial and allied grain suppliers, many Roman farmers turned to more profitable crops, especially grapes for wine production. By the late Republican era, Roman wine had been transformed from an indifferent local product for local consumption, to a major domestic and export commodity.\n\nRoman writers have little to say about large-scale stock-breeding, but make passing references to its profitability. Drummond speculates that this might reflect elite preoccupations with historical grain famines, or long-standing competition between agriculturalists and pastoralists. While agriculture was a seasonal practise, pasturage was a year-round requirement. Some of Republican Rome's early agricultural legislation sought to balance the competing public grazing rights of small farmers, the farming elite, and transhumant pastoralists, who maintained an ancient right to herd, graze and water their animals between low-lying winter pastures and upland summer pastures. From the early second century, transhumance was practised on a vast scale, as an investment opportunity. Though meat and hides were valuable by products of stock-raising, cattle were primarily reared to pull carts and ploughs, and sheep were bred for their wool, the mainstay of the Roman clothing industry. Horses, mules and donkeys were bred as civil and military transport. Pigs bred prolifically, and could be raised at little cost by any small farmer with rights to pannage. Their central dietary role is reflected by their use as sacrificial victims in domestic cults, funerals, and cults to agricultural deities.\n\nRepublican Rome's religious practises harked back to Rome's quasi-mythical history. Romulus, a son of Mars, founded Rome after Jupiter granted him favourable bird-signs regarding the site. Numa Pompilius, second king of Rome, had established Rome's basic religious and political institutions after direct instructions from the gods, given through augury, dreams and oracle. Each king thereafter was credited with some form of divinely approved innovation, adaptation or reform. An Imperial-era source claims that the Republic's first consul, Brutus, effectively abolished human sacrifice to the goddess Mania, instituted by the last king, Tarquinius.\n\nRomans acknowledged the existence of innumerable deities who controlled the natural world and human affairs. Every individual, occupation and location had a protective tutelary deity, or sometimes several. Each was associated with a particular, highly prescriptive form of prayer and sacrifice. Piety (\"pietas\") was the correct, dutiful and timely performance of such actions. The well-being of each Roman household was thought to depend on daily cult to its Lares and Penates (guardian deities, or spirits), ancestors, and the divine generative essence embodied within its \"pater familias\". A family which neglected its religious responsibilities could not expect to prosper.\n\nThe well-being of the Roman state depended on its state deities, whose opinions and will could be discerned by priests and magistrates, trained in augury, haruspicy, oracles and the interpretation of omens. Impieties in state religion could produce expressions of divine wrath such as social unrest, wars, famines and epidemics, vitiate the political process, render elections null and void, and lead to the abandonment of planned treaties, wars and any government business. Accidental errors could be remedied by repeating the rite correctly, or by an additional sacrifice; outright sacrilege threatened the bonds between the human and divine, and carried the death penalty. As divine retribution was invoked in the lawful swearing of oaths and vows, oath-breakers forfeited their right to divine protection, and might be killed with impunity.\n\nRoman religious authorities were unconcerned with personal beliefs or privately funded cults, unless they offended natural or divine laws, or undermined the \"mos maiorum\" (roughly, \"the way of the ancestors\"); the relationship between gods and mortals should be sober, contractual, and of mutual benefit. Undignified grovelling, excessive enthusiasm (\"superstitio\") and secretive practises were \"weak minded\" and morally suspect. Magical practises were officially banned, as attempts to subvert the will of the gods for personal gain, but were probably common among all classes. Private cult organisations that seemed to threaten Rome's political and priestly hierarchy were investigated by the Senate, with advice from the priestly colleges. The Republic's most notable religious suppression was that of the Bacchanalia, a widespread, unofficial, enthusiastic cult to the Greek wine-god Bacchus. The cult organisation was ferociously suppressed, and its deity was absorbed within the official cult to Rome's own wine-god, Liber. The official recognition, adoption and supervision of foreign deities and practices, whether Etruscan, Sabine, Latin or colonial Greek, had been an important unitary feature in Rome's territorial expansion and dominance since the days of the kings. For example, king Servius Tullius had established an Aventine temple to Diana as a Roman focus for the Latin League.\n\nThe gods were thought to communicate their wrath (\"ira deorum\") through prodigies (unnatural or aberrant phenomena). During the crisis of the Second Punic War an unprecedented number of reported prodigies were expiated, in more than twenty days of public ritual and sacrifices. In the same period, Rome recruited the \"Trojan\" Magna Mater (Great Mother of the Gods) to the Roman cause, \"Hellenised\" the native Roman cult to Ceres; and took control of the Bacchanalia festival in Rome and its allied territories. Following Rome's disastrous defeat at Cannae, the State's most prominent written oracle recommended the living burial of human victims in the Forum Boarium to placate the gods. Livy describes this \"bloodless\" human sacrifice as an abhorrent but pious necessity; Rome's eventual victory confirmed the gods' approval.\n\nStarting in the mid-Republican era, some leading Romans publicly displayed special, sometimes even intimate relationships with particular deities. For instance, Scipio Africanus claimed Jupiter as a personal mentor. Some gentes claimed a divine descent, often thanks to a false etymology of their name; the Caecilii Metelli pretended to descend from Vulcan through his son Caeculus, the Mamilii from Circe through her granddaughter Mamilia, the Julii Caesares and the Aemilii from Venus through her grandsons Iulus and Aemylos. In the 1st century, Sulla, Pompey, and Caesar made competing claims for Venus' favour.\n\nWith the abolition of monarchy, some of its sacral duties were shared by the consuls, while others passed to a Republican \"rex sacrorum\" (king of the sacred rites\"), a patrician \"king\", elected for life, with great prestige but no executive or kingly powers. Rome had no specifically priestly class or caste. As every famiy's \"pater familias\" was responsible for his family's cult activities, he was effectively the senior priest of his own household. Likewise, most priests of public cult were expected to marry, produce children, and support their families. In the early Republic the patricians, as \"fathers\" to the Roman people, claimed the right of seniority to lead and control the state's relationship with the divine. Patrician families, in particular the \"Cornelii\", \"Postumii\" and \"Valerii\", monopolised the leading state priesthoods: the \"flamines\" of Jupiter, Mars and Quirinus, as well as the \"pontifices\". The patrician \"Flamen Dialis\" employed the \"greater auspices\" (\"auspicia maiora\") to consult with Jupiter on significant matters of State.\n\nTwelve \"lesser flaminates\" (\"Flamines minores\"), were open to plebeians, or reserved to them. They included a \"Flamen Cerealis\" in service of Ceres, goddess of grain and growth, and protector of plebeian laws and tribunes. The plebs had their own forms of augury, which they credited to Marsyas, a satyr or silen in the entourage of Liber, plebeian god of grapes, wine, freedom and male fertility. The priesthoods of local urban and rustic Compitalia street-festivals, dedicated to the Lares of local communities, were open to freedmen and slaves, to whom \"even the heavy-handed Cato recommended liberality during the festival\"; so that the slaves, \"being softened by this instance of humanity, which has something great and solemn about it, may make themselves more agreeable to their masters and be less sensible of the severity of their condition\".\n\nThe \"Lex Ogulnia\" (300) gave patricians and plebeians more-or-less equal representation in the augural and pontifical colleges; other important priesthoods, such as the Quindecimviri (\"The Fifteen\"), and the \"epulones\" were opened to any member of the senatorial class. To restrain the accumulation and potential abuse of priestly powers, each \"gens\" was permitted one priesthood at any given time, and the religious activities of senators were monitored by the censors. Magistrates who held an augurate could claim divine authority for their position and policies. In the late Republic, augury came under the control of the \"pontifices\", whose powers were increasingly woven into the civil and military \"cursus honorum\". Eventually, the office of \"pontifex maximus\" became a \"de facto\" consular prerogative.\n\nSome cults may have been exclusively female; for example, the rites of the Good Goddess (\"Bona Dea\"). Towards the end of the second Punic War, Rome rewarded priestesses of Demeter from \"Graeca Magna\" with Roman citizenship for training respectable, leading matrons as\"sacerdotes\" of \"Greek rites\" to Ceres. Every matron of a family (the wife of its \"pater familias\" had a religious duty to maintain the household fire, which was considered an extension of Vesta's sacred fire, tended in perpetuity by the chaste Vestal Virgins. The Vestals also made the sacrificial \"mola salsa\" employed in many State rituals, and represent an essential link between domestic and state religion. Rome's survival was thought to depend on their sacred status and ritual purity. Vestals found guilty of inchastity were \"willingly\" buried alive, to expiate their offence and avoid the imposition of blood-guilt on those who inflicted the punishment.\n\nRome's major public temples were contained within the city's sacred, augural boundary (\"pomerium\"), which had supposedly been marked out by Romulus, with Jupiter's approval. The Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus (\"Jupiter, Best and Greatest\") stood on the Capitoline Hill. Among the settled areas outside the \"pomerium\" was the nearby Aventine Hill. It was traditionally associated with Romulus' unfortunate twin, Remus, and in later history with the Latins, and the Roman \"plebs\". The Aventine seems to have functioned as a place for the introduction of \"foreign\" deities. In 392, Camillus established a temple there to Juno Regina, Etruscan Veii's protective goddess. Later introductions include Summanus, c. 278, Vortumnus c. 264, and at some time before the end of the 3rd century, Minerva. While Ceres' Aventine temple was most likely built at patrician expense, to mollify the \"plebs\", the patricians brought the Magna Mater (\"Great mother of the Gods\") to Rome as their own \"Trojan\" ancestral goddess, and installed her on the Palatine, along with her distinctively \"un-Roman\" Galli priesthood.\n\nRomulus was said to have pitched his augural tent atop the Palatine. Beneath its southern slopes ran the sacred way, next to the former palace of the kings (Regia), the House of the Vestals and Temple of Vesta. Close by were the Lupercal shrine and the cave where Romulus and Remus were said to have been suckled by the she-wolf. On the flat area between the Aventine and Palatine was the Circus Maximus, which hosted chariot races and religious games. Its several shrines and temples included those to Rome's indigenous sun-god, Sol, the moon-goddess Luna, the grain-storage god, Consus, and the obscure goddess Murcia. A temple to Hercules stood in the Forum Boarium, near the Circus starting gate. Every district (\"Vicus\") of the city had a crossroads shrine to its own protective Lares.\n\nWhereas Republican (and thereafter, Imperial) Romans marked the passage of years with the names of their ruling consuls, their calendars marked the anniversaries of religious foundations to particular deities, the days when official business was permitted (\"fas\"), and those when it was not (\"nefas\"). The Romans observed an eight-day week; markets were held on the ninth day. Each month was presided over by a particular, usually major deity. The oldest calendars were lunar, structured around the most significant periods in the agricultural cycle, and the religious duties required to yield a good harvest.\n\nBefore any campaign or battle, Roman commanders took auspices, or haruspices, to seek the gods' opinion regarding the likely outcome. Military success was achieved through a combination of personal and collective \"virtus\" (roughly, \"manly virtue\") and divine will. Triumphal generals dressed as Jupiter Capitolinus, and laid their victor's laurels at his feet. Religious negligence, or lack of \"virtus\", provoked divine wrath and led to military disaster. Military oaths dedicated the oath-takers life to Rome's gods and people; defeated soldiers were expected to take their own lives, rather than survive as captives. Examples of \"devotio\", as performed by the Decii Mures, in which soldiers offered and gave their lives to the \"Di inferi\" (gods of the underworld) in exchange for Roman victory were celebrated as the highest good.\n\nSome of Republican Rome's leading deities were acquired through military actions. In the earliest years of the Republic, Camillus promised Veii's goddess Juno a temple in Rome as incentive for her desertion \"(evocatio)\". He conquered the city in her name, brought her cult statue to Rome \"with miraculous ease\" and dedicated a temple to her on the Aventine Hill. The first known temple to Venus was built to fulfil a vow made by Q. Fabius Gurges during battle against the Samnites. Following Rome's disastrous defeat by Carthage in the Battle of Lake Trasimene (217), Rome laid siege to Eryx, a Sicillian ally of Carthage. The city's patron deity, whom the Romans recognised as a warlike version of Venus, was \"persuaded\" to change her allegiance and was rewarded with a magnificent temple on the Capitoline Hill, as one of Rome's twelve Dii consentes. \"Venus Victrix\" was thought to grant her favourites a relatively easy victory, worthy of an ovation and myrtle crown.\n\nLife in the Roman Republic revolved around the city of Rome, and its seven hills. The most important governing, administrative and religious institutions were concentrated at its heart, on and around the Capitoline and Palatine Hills. The city rapidly outgrew its original sacred boudary (\"pomerium\"), and its first city walls. Further growth was constrained by an inadequate fresh-water supply. Rome's first aqueduct (312) built during the Punic wars crisis, provided a plentiful, clean supply. The building of further aqueducts led to the city's expansion and the establishment of public baths (\"thermae\") as a central feature of Roman culture. The city also had several theatres, gymnasiums, and many taverns and brothels. Living space was at a premium. Some ordinary citizens and freedmen of middling income might live in modest houses but most of the population lived in apartment blocks (\"insulae,\" literally \"islands\"), where the better-off might rent an entire ground floor, and the poorest a single, possibly windowless room at the top, with few or no amenities. Nobles and rich patrons lived in spacious, well-appointed town houses; they were expected to keep \"open house\" for their peers and clients. A semi-public \"atrium\" typically functioned as a meeting-space, and a vehicle for display of wealth, artistic taste, and religious piety. Noble \"atria\" were also display areas for ancestor-masks (\"imagines\").\n\nMost Roman towns and cities had a forum and temples, as did the city of Rome itself. Aqueducts brought water to urban centres. Landlords generally resided in cities and left their estates in the care of farm managers.\n\nThe basic Roman garment was the Greek-style tunic, worn knee-length and short-sleeved (or sleeveless) for men and boys, and ankle-length and long-sleeved for women and girls. The toga was distinctively Roman. It was thought to have begun during the early Roman kingdom, as a plain woolen \"shepherd's wrap\", worn by both sexes, all classes, and all occupations, including the military. By the middle to late Republic, citizen women had abandoned it for the less bulky, Greek-style stola, and the military used it only for off-duty ceremonies. The toga became a mark of male citizenship, a statement of social degree. Convention also dictated the type, colour and style of \"calcei\" (ankle-boots) appropriate to each level of male citizenship; red for senators, brown with crescent-shaped buckles for equites, and plain tanned for \"plebs\".\n\nThe whitest, most voluminous togas were worn by the senatorial class. High ranking magistrates, priests and citizen's children were entitled to a purple-bordered \"toga praetexta\". Triumphal generals wore an all-purple, gold-embroidered toga picta, associated with the image of Jupiter and Rome's former kings - but only for a single day; Republican mores simultaneously fostered competitive display and attempted its containment, to preserve at least a notional equality between peers, and reduce the potential threats of class envy. Togas, however, were impractical for physical activities other than sitting in the theatre, public oratory, and attending the \"salutiones\" (\"greeting sessions\") of rich patrons. Most Roman citizens, particularly the lower class of plebs, seem to have opted for more comfortable and practical garments, such as tunics and cloaks.\n\nLuxurious and highly coloured clothing had always been available to those who could afford it, particularly women of the leisured classes. There is material evidence for cloth-of-gold (lamé) as early as the 7th century. By the 3rd century, significant quantities of raw silk was being imported from China. The \"Lex Oppia\" (215), which restricted personal expenditure on such luxuries as purple clothing, was repealed in 195, after a mass public protest by wealthy Roman matrons. Tyrian purple, as a quasi-sacred colour, was officially reserved for the border of the \"toga praetexta\" and for the solid purple \"toga picta\"; but towards the end of the Republic, the notorious Verres was wearing a purple \"pallium\" at all-night parties, not long before his trial, disgrace and exile for corruption.\n\nFor most Romans, even the simplest, cheapest linen or woolen clothing represented a major expense. Worn clothing was passed down the social scale until it fell to rags, and these in turn were used for patchwork. Wool and linen were the mainstays of Roman clothing, idealised by Roman moralists as simple and frugal. Landowners were advised that female slaves not otherwise occupied should be producing homespun woolen cloth, good enough for clothing the better class of slave or supervisor. Cato the Elder recommended that slaves be given a new cloak and tunic every two years; coarse rustic homespun would likely be \"too good\" for the lowest class of slave, but not good enough for their masters. For most women, the carding, combing, spinning and weaving of wool were part of daily housekeeping, either for family use or for sale. In traditionalist, wealthy households, the family's wool-baskets, spindles and looms were positioned in the semi-public reception area (\"atrium\"), where the mater familias and her familia could thus demonstrate their industry and frugality; a largely symbolic and moral activity for those of their class, rather than practical necessity.\n\nAs the Republic wore on, its trade, territories and wealth increased. Roman conservatives deplored the apparent erosion of traditional, class-based dress distinctions, and an increasing Roman appetite for luxurious fabrics and exotic \"foreign\" styles among all classes, including their own. Towards the end of the Republic, the ultra-traditionalist Cato the younger publicly protested the self-indulgent greed and ambition of his peers, and the loss of Republican \"manly virtues\", by wearing a \"skimpy\" dark woolen toga, without tunic or footwear.\n\nModern study of the dietary habits during the Republic are hampered by various factors. Few writings have survived, and because different components of their diet are more or less likely to be preserved, the archaeological record cannot be relied on. Cato the elder's \"De Agri Cultura\" includes several recipes and his suggested \"Rations for the hands\". The list of ingredients includes cheese, honey, poppy seeds, coriander, fennel, cumin, egg, olives, bay leaves, laurel twig, and anise. He gives instructions for kneading bread, making porridge, Placenta cake, brine, various wines, preserving lentils, planting asparagus, curing ham, and fattening geese and squab. The Roman poet Horace mentions another Roman favorite, the olive, in reference to his own diet, which he describes as very simple: \"As for me, olives, endives, and smooth mallows provide sustenance.\" Meat, fish and produce were a part of the Roman diet at all levels of society.\n\nRomans valued fresh fruit, and had a diverse variety available to them. Wine was considered the basic drink, consumed at all meals and occasions by all classes and was quite inexpensive. Cato once advised cutting his rations in half to conserve wine for the workforce. Many types of drinks involving grapes and honey were consumed as well. Drinking on an empty stomach was regarded as boorish and a sure sign for alcoholism, the debilitating physical and psychological effects of which were known to the Romans. Accusations of alcoholism were used to discredit political rivals. Prominent Roman alcoholics included Marcus Antonius, and Cicero's own son Marcus (Cicero Minor). Even Cato the Younger was known to be a heavy drinker.\n\nRome's original native language was early Latin, the language of the Italic Latins. Most surviving Latin literature is written in Classical Latin, a highly stylised and polished literary language which developed from early and vernacular spoken Latin, from the 1st century. Most Latin speakers used Vulgar Latin, which significantly differed from Classical Latin in grammar, vocabulary, and eventually pronunciation.\n\nFollowing various military conquests in the Greek East, Romans adapted a number of Greek educational precepts to their own fledgling system. Strenuous, disciplined physical training helped prepare boys of citizen class for their eventual citizenship and a military career. Girls generally received instruction from their mothers in the art of spinning, weaving, and sewing.\nSchooling in a more formal sense was begun around 200. Education began at the age of around six, and in the next six to seven years, boys and girls were expected to learn the basics of reading, writing and counting. By the age of twelve, they would be learning Latin, Greek, grammar and literature, followed by training for public speaking. Effective oratory and good Latin were highly valued among the elite, and were essential to a career in law or politics.\n\nIn the 3rd century, Greek art taken as the spoils of war became popular, and many Roman homes were decorated with landscapes by Greek artists.\n\nOver time, Roman architecture was modified as their urban requirements changed, and the civil engineering and building construction technology became developed and refined. The architectural style of the capital city was emulated by other urban centers under Roman control and influence. \n\nEarly Roman literature was influenced heavily by Greek authors. From the mid-Republic, Roman authors followed Greek models, to produce free-verse and verse-form plays and other in Latin; for example, Livius Andronicus wrote tragedies and comedies. The earliest Latin works to have survived intact are the comedies of Plautus, written during the mid-Republic. Works of well-known, popular playwrights were sometimes commissioned for performance at religious festivals; many of these were Satyr plays, based on Greek models and Greek myths. Lucretius, in his \"On the Nature of Things\" explicated the tenets of Epicurean philosophy. Towards the end of the Republic, Virgil's epic poem, the \"Aeneid\", built on Homer's ancient Greek epic, the \"Iliad\", to make the Trojan prince Aeneas an ancestor of the Roman people.\n\nThe city of Rome had a place called the Campus Martius (\"Field of Mars\"), which was a sort of drill ground for Roman soldiers. Later, the Campus became Rome's track and field playground. In the campus, the youth assembled to play and exercise, which included jumping, wrestling, boxing and racing. Equestrian sports, throwing, and swimming were also preferred physical activities. In the countryside, pastimes included fishing and hunting. Board games played in Rome included dice (Tesserae or Tali), Roman Chess (Latrunculi), Roman Checkers (Calculi), Tic-tac-toe (Terni Lapilli), and Ludus duodecim scriptorum and Tabula, predecessors of backgammon. Other activities included chariot races, and musical and theatrical performances. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47357318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47357318", "title": "SCCA Formula Super Vee", "text": "SCCA Formula Super Vee\n\nThe SCCA Formula Super Vee was one of the longest running Formula Super Vee championships in the world. Twenty racing season were contested. Most of the races were sanctioned by the Sports Car Club of America in some occasions the races were sanctioned by the International Motor Sports Association.\n\nIn 1969 Josef Hoppen, head of the motorsport department of Volkswagen of America, approached the Sports Car Club of America. The Formula Super Vee was announced as an SCCA national class in November 1969. The class was created as a substitute for the overpopulated Formula Vee class. Beach Racing Cars manufactured the first Super Vee car, a single seater using threaded tires and no aerodynamic aides. Settled Formula Vee constructors Zink Cars, Autodynamics and Zeitler Racing Design soon followed. Beach's first Formula Super Vee chassis was bought by Formula Super Vee Europe to promote the racing class in Europe.\n\nThirteen drivers competed in the first edition of the Formula Super Vee SCCA National Championship Runoffs at Road Atlanta. Driver/constructor John Zeitler qualified on pole but dropped to fifth position. Tom Davey won the prestigious race also racing a Zeitler chassis. In the combined Formula Super Vee/Formula Ford race, Super Vee's finished in the first three places. Skip Barber was the first Formula Ford driver placing fourth overall. The first national series was held in 1971. Bill Scott won the inaugural race at Daytona International Raceway. Scott went on to win races at Road America, Lime Rock Park and Laguna Seca Raceway. The 1972 season entries improved and slick tires were introduced to the series. Scott became the first double champion of the series despite only winning two races. For 1973 international drivers stepped in with Swede Bertil Roos winning three out of the first four races. A late charge from Elliott Forbes-Robinson could not prevent Roos winning the championship. \n\nIn 1974 a new Formula Super Vee era began. The series featured fourteen races, two of them outside the United States. Races abroad were run at Mosport Park, Canada and Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez, Mexico. Series organizer, Josef Hopen, was not loyal to any specific sanctioning body. Half of the races, including the races abroad, were sanctioned by the International Motor Sports Association. . The co-sanctioning continued for 1975 but ended before the 1976 season. Political disagreement resulted in Hoppen pulling the Formula Super Vee Robert Bosch championship out of IMSA. As a response IMSA created the Formula Atlantic class and USAC created the Mini-Indy Series Formula Super Vee.\n\nThe next era for Formula Super Vee started in 1978. The class introduced a new, water cooled, Volkswagen Rabbit engine replacing the old air cooled one. The SCCA club racing scene remained using the old engine. The SCCA dropped the class from its regional and national series, the pro series remained. Bill Alsup won the first season of the new era Formula Super Vee championship. Ralt dominated almost every season fielding the most cars out of any contstructor. Only the 1983 and 1986 championships were won by other manufacturers.\n"}
{"id": "56650876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56650876", "title": "Sarah Godlewski", "text": "Sarah Godlewski\n\nSarah Ann Godlewski (born November 9, 1981) is an American entrepreneur, business executive, and politician from the state of Wisconsin. A Democrat, she worked for the U.S. Department of Defense before co-founding MaSa Impact, a socially responsible investment venture. Godlewski was elected to the position of Wisconsin State Treasurer in the November 2018 election.\n\nGodlewski was the founder of the Save Our Fiscal Watchdog Committee, a successful effort which defeated an April 2018 proposed amendment to the Wisconsin Constitution to remove the office of State Treasurer. Godlewski led the statewide effort with former Republican State Treasurer Jack Voight.\n\nGodlewski was born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin and is a graduate of Memorial High School, where she was class president. She attended college at George Mason University, where she studied Peace and Conflict Resolution and served as student body president. During that time, she helped to successfully lobby the Virginia Legislature to pass absentee ballot reforms. Later, she attended the Sorensen Institute for Political Leadership at the University of Virginia and received a Masters in Public Administration from the University of Pennsylvania. In addition, she was a National Security Fellow for Air War College and attended the Women's Campaign School at Yale University. Godlewski has also been involved as an interviewer with the Veterans History Project.\n\nGodlewski worked for Arapahoe County, Colorado from 2012 to 2016 as the Director of the Department of Strategy and Performance. During that time, Godlewski served as a member of the Joint Taskforce on Veterans with PTSD which made recommendations to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Congress. Godlewski worked for Booz Allen Hamilton on Strategy and Organization in Washington, D.C. and was a senior consultant at BearingPoint. During the 2008 and United States 2008 Presidential Elections, Godlewski served as the national finance council co-chair for Ready for Hillary and was the Wisconsin Women's Director for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential bid. Godlewski has also taught as an adjunct professor at George Mason University.\n\nGodlewski's career has lead her to work on community Microfinance in India, language and culture strategic planning for the United States Department of State, child protection initiatives in Belize, education reform and public health in Uganda, and social policy work in Sweden.\n\nGodlewski serves on the board for the U.S. Fund for UNICEF and serves as chairperson of the UNICEF Advocacy Committee. In addition to her leadership role with UNICEF, Godlewski serves on the board for mOm Incubators, the Arlington Academy of Hope, and George Mason University's School of Visual and Performance Arts. Godlewski has also been an investor with WE Capital. In the past, Godlewski has helped to direct Women's Leadership programs for the Democratic National Committee.\n\nIn April 2018, Godlewski announced her candidacy for State Treasurer. Godlewski won a three-way primary with 43% of the vote on August 14, 2018. Her opponents were former television anchor Cynthia Kaump and former Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass.\n\nIn the general election on November 6, Godlewski won the election with 51 percent of the vote.\n\nSarah's parents are retired public school teachers. Godlewski lives with her husband Max and their rescue dog, Tanner.\n\n"}
{"id": "12247430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12247430", "title": "Shadowtime (opera)", "text": "Shadowtime (opera)\n\nShadowtime is the first opera by Brian Ferneyhough, written to an English libretto by Charles Bernstein. It was written from 1999 to 2004 and was premiered on 25 May 2004 at the Prinzregententheater in Munich. The City of Munich commissioned the composition and libretto in 1999 for the Munich Biennale. It is in seven scenes :\n\nThe composer regards \"\", a scene set to the composer's own text and played by a Liberace-like figure, as the centre-piece of the opera .\n\nThe opera begins with the suicide/death of philosopher Walter Benjamin and goes on to deal with various aspects of his writings and philosophy from the point of view of his descent into the underworld .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7499676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7499676", "title": "Strelnikoff Mary of Help of Brezje controversy", "text": "Strelnikoff Mary of Help of Brezje controversy\n\nThe Strelnikoff Mary of Help of Brezje controversy or the Strelnikoff Affair () began after a depiction of Mary of Help of Brezje holding a rat instead of Jesus was published by the Slovenian music group Strelnikoff on the cover of their 1998 studio album \"Bitchcraft.\" The album was made in protest of the official views of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia and the statements of some of its highest representatives on the subject of abortion.\n\nThe first to condemn this depiction was Franc Rode, who was the Bishop of Ljubljana at the time. This was followed by general public outcry and expressions of the inappropriateness of the misuse of one of the most known symbols of Slovenian Catholicism. The State Attorney's Office received 3,867 public protests and 1,208 requests for indictment. These were united in one that was at first rebuffed before the Celje District Court. However, the state prosecutor Elizabeta Gyorkos filled a complaint. The group members also received phone calls and threats. In August 2003, the indictment was refused by the Ljubljana Higher Court as well. In accordance with the Constitution of Slovenia and the Slovenian law, the court concluded that the authors were \"tasteless in their artistic project, however they did not surpass the boundary of allowed at all.\"\n"}
{"id": "33064257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33064257", "title": "Super Star (2002 film)", "text": "Super Star (2002 film)\n\nSuper Star is a 2002 Kannada film written by Upendra and directed by Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar, starring Upendra and Keerthi Reddy. The story line was loosely based on the Nepalese royal massacre involving Dipendra of Nepal, the tragedy that struck the family of the Nepal king. Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar had mentioned in an interview that, although he was credited as the director, he was not given much freedom on the sets and Upendra was the one who directed most of the movie. The film had four climaxes that viewers could select on their own. It was dubbed into Telugu as \"Stupid\", which was surprisingly a lot more successful than the Kannada version.\n\n\nThe music for the movie was composed and by Hamsalekha. The lyrics were penned by Upendra. The track named Thagole Thagole was a chartbuster.\nThe reaction from the critics turned out to be mostly negative upon the film's release. While the performances of the lead artistes, unique story line of the film, soundtrack, background music and other technical aspects of the film were praised, the screenplay of the film was the most criticized by the critics as well as the audiences.\n\n\"Superstar\" had an extremely strong opening at the box office across Karnataka similar to the earlier record breaking openers of Upendra and set the box office on fire during its opening weekend. The film continued to storm the box office during its initial weeks, but failed to live up to the expectations and most of the fans were disappointed by the movie. \"Superstar\" ended up becoming a below average grosser in Karnataka by running only for 6 weeks in its main centre in Bangalore. The film was sold to distributors at a very high distribution price and got an extraordinary opening in its initial weeks, thus returning investment for the producer. Compared to Upendra's earlier blockbuster movies like \"A\", \"Upendra\", \"Preethse\", \"H2O\", this film was considered as average hit as it returned investment for the producer.\n\nThe Telugu version of \"Superstar\" which was released in Andhra Pradesh in 2003 (a year after its original Kannada release) was titled as Stupid - O Pichi Vadi Prema Katha and had a fantastic opening across Andhra Pradesh, owing mainly to Upendra's loyal Telugu fan following which he had gained due to the large success of the Telugu versions of his earlier blockbuster movies like \"A\" and \"Upendra (film)\" which not only starred him but were also directed by him, and a few straight Telugu movies like \"Raa\" and \"Kanyadanam\" which were box office hits. Although \"Superstar\" was just an average grosser in Karnataka, \"Stupid\" surprisingly turned out to be a hit in Andhra Pradesh by completing 100 days of run and its distributors in Andhra Pradesh earned fair profits from the movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "12084419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12084419", "title": "Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus", "text": "Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\n\n\"Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\" is the second season premiere of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 14th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on April 1, 1998. The episode follows the two title characters, a duo of Canadians who attempt to save their country from the dictator Saddam Hussein while performing repetitive toilet humour. Unbeknown to them, the plan was partially set up by their rival, Scott, a critic who is often displeased by their random jokes of flatulence. The script was written by series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, along with writer Trisha Nixon.\n\nThe episode was an April Fools' Day prank on \"South Park\" fans who were waiting to learn the identity of Cartman's father after the cliffhanger ending of the first season finale \"Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut\". The prank angered viewers resulting in 2,000 e-mail complaints to Comedy Central within a week of the original broadcast. The broadcast date of the subsequent episode, \"Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut\", was moved up in response to the complaints. \"Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\" received generally mixed reviews, with some commentators criticizing Parker and Stone for \"duping\" their viewers, and others praising them for taking the risk. The creators cited this episode as their favorite and response to it has become warmer since.\n\nThe episode begins with an announcement that viewers have waited for weeks for the answer to the mystery \"Who Is Cartman's Father\" but then points out that the answer will not be revealed in this episode; instead there is a presentation of a stand-alone cartoon titled \"Not Without My Anus\" starring Terrance and Phillip. A caption wishes the viewers a Happy April Fools' Day. The cartoon itself opens in a courtroom in Canada with Terrance on trial for the murder of a local doctor; Phillip is his lawyer while Terrance and Phillip's sworn nemesis Scott, who has had a long hatred of the duo's toilet humor, is acting as the prosecutor. Scott uses a group of seemingly airtight exhibits to prove Terrance's guilt, while Terrance's defense consists of nothing but a long string of fart jokes. Ultimately, the jury returns a verdict of not guilty. Angered, Scott promises vengeance. He is ultimately approached by Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, proposing a deal: Saddam would assist in getting Terrance and Phillip out of Canada, in exchange for Scott assisting Saddam and his Iraqi associates into Canada. Scott is apprehensive about trusting Saddam, but agrees to the deal. The pair then conspires to kidnap Sally, daughter of Terrance and Celine Dion, and hold her hostage, as bait to lure Terrance and Phillip to Tehran; Saddam's soldiers would then murder Terrance and Phillip on arrival.\n\nTerrance and Phillip become aware of the kidnapping when they receive a letter, but they immediately locate Sally upon arrival in Tehran. The duo return Sally to her home, where Saddam has now taken control. Celine, Terrance's now ex-wife, is dating, and has become pregnant by a friend of the duo named Ugly Bob. While the couple discuss their relationship, Saddam interrupts and takes them hostage, with Celine having planned to sing at a Canadian football game. Scott has also become worried about the presence of the Iraqi soldiers in Canada, but becomes infuriated when he finds that Terrance and Phillip have returned to Canada safely. He confronts Saddam about the double-cross, but Saddam's armed guards scare him into backing away. It is revealed that Saddam is trying to take over Canada as the first step in a plan for world domination. Terrance and Phillip arrive at the game. Instead of following a plan set up by Scott to commit suicide by using a bomb, they come up with a new plan and put on gas masks. With brute force, everyone farts a huge gas cloud which kills Saddam and his soldiers. Scott arrives and is annoyed to find that Terrance and Phillip are still alive. Terrance, Phillip, Celine and everyone else (excluding Scott) celebrate their freedom with a rendition of \"O Canada\". During the credits, an announcement is shown stating that the solution to who Cartman's father is will be answered in a few weeks.\n\n\"Terrance and Philip in Not Without My Anus\" was written by Trisha Nixon and \"South Park\" co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, and directed by Parker. It was the premiere and first episode centered completely around Terrance and Phillip, fictional cartoon characters within the series.\n\nThe episode first aired on April 1, 1998 as an April Fools' Day prank by Parker and Stone on \"South Park\" fans who were anxiously waiting to learn the identity of Cartman's father after the cliffhanger ending of \"Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut\", the first season finale. Instead, Parker and Stone presented an episode entirely focused on a Terrance and Phillip cartoon with nothing in the story about Cartman's father. Upset fans wrote more than 2,000 angry e-mail complaints to Comedy Central within a week of the episode's original broadcast, and media outlets said some fans harbored a grudge against the show more than five years after the episode was broadcast. Stone said to \"Entertainment Weekly\" in response to the fan backlash, \"If you get that pissed off because you don't know who a little construction paper kid's father is, then there's really something wrong with you.\" Allan Johnson of the \"Chicago Tribune\" said Comedy Central was \"punking out\" with the decision.\n\nSeveral reviewers noted a significant amount of crude and vulgar humor in \"Terrance and Philip in Not Without My Anus\", even by \"South Park\" standards; \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" noted the episode contained 29 separate fart jokes in the span of 22 minutes. Global Television Network in Canada reported no complaints about the episode in the weeks after its release.\n\nReviewers were mixed on Parker and Stone's elaborate April Fools' Day prank. Diane Werts of \"Newsday\" said of the episode, \"Fans rioted. Some jumped ship and never came back. The lesson: Pay off our expectations, or you'll be sorry.\" Jim Minge of the \"Omaha World-Herald\" said \"South Park\" fans were \"duped\" by the episode. Philip Martin of the \"Arkansas Democrat-Gazette\", who said in May 1998 the \"South Park\" phenomenon was \"dead\", described the April Fools' prank as \"lamentable\" and part of the reason for the show's apparent decline. Others, however, praised Parker and Stone for making the move at the risk of upsetting fans. Tim Clodfelter of the \"Winston-Salem Journal\" said, \"It was a funny, clever move [that] quickly separated the fans who truly \"got\" [Parker and Stone's] humor from those who were just watching for the dirty jokes.\" Jon Casimir of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" said, \"It is gratifying, in an entertainment world dominated by market research and common denominators, to see a program that obviously doesn't care if you like it or not.\" However, he said the characterization of Terrance and Phillip was too thin to be particularly funny, and added that the novelty of the prank is lost in later years.\n\nJakob Von Bayer said the episode continued a long history of \"South Park\" Canada-bashing: \"South Park has gotten a lot of comic mileage out of Canada over the years. [...] This episode portrays a country full of Bob and Doug McKenzies; Toronto is but a highway town en route to Buffalo.\" \"Terrance and Philip in Not Without My Anus\" was among the episodes featured in a 2006 list by the \"Winnipeg Free Press\" of the ten most memorable \"South Park\" episodes. The \"Toronto Sun\" listed the episode as one of the most memorable television moments of 1998, and the single most memorable moment from the month of April. The prank played by the airing of this episode was revisited a number of times in subsequent episodes. The episode \"Cartoon Wars Part II\" revisits it by appearing to begin with a similar spoof, though the episode then cuts to the actual plot. The episode, \"\", also references the controversy over the airing of this episode, as does the thirteenth season episode, \"Eat, Pray, Queef\".\n\n\"Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus\" was released on VHS on June 15, 1999, as a stand-alone episode. It was also released on DVD, along with the rest of season two, in June 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "5760218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5760218", "title": "The Crying Boy", "text": "The Crying Boy\n\nThe Crying Boy is a mass-produced print of a painting by Italian painter Giovanni Bragolin. It was widely distributed from the 1950s onwards.\n\nThere are numerous alternative versions, all portraits of tearful young boys or girls. In addition to being widely known, certain urban legends attribute a \"curse\" to the painting.\n\nOn 5 September 1985, the British tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\" reported that an Essex firefighter claimed that undamaged copies of the painting were frequently found amidst the ruins of burned houses. By the end of November, belief in the painting's curse was widespread enough that \"The Sun\" was organising mass bonfires of the paintings, sent in by readers.\n\nSteve Punt, a British writer and comedian, investigated the curse of the crying boy in a BBC Radio 4 production called \"Punt PI\". Although the format of the programmes are comic in nature, Punt researched the history of the Crying Boy painting. The conclusion reached by the programme, following testing at the Building Research Establishment, is that the prints were treated with a varnish containing fire retardant, and that the string holding the painting to the wall would be the first to deteriorate, resulting in the painting landing face down on the floor and thus being protected, although no explanation was given as to why no other paintings were turning up unscathed. The picture was also mentioned in an episode about curses in the TV series \"Weird or What?\" in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "58425242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58425242", "title": "The Experience (Gospel Concert)", "text": "The Experience (Gospel Concert)\n\nThe Experience (commonly referred to as The Experience Lagos) is an annual free gospel music concert held at the Tafawa Balewa Square, located in Lagos Island, Nigeria. It was founded by Paul Adefarasin, the lead pastor of House On The Rock, in 2016 with an attendance of 70,000 people. Adefarasin hosts the concert each year.\n\nThe event regularly features local and international artists such as Kirk Franklin, CeCe Winans, Donnie McClurkin, Don Moen, Frank Edwards, Nathaniel Bassey, and Chioma Jesus. The Experience is recognised as one of the largest music events in Africa.\n\nThe Experience held for the first time in 1 December 2006 at the Tafawa Balewa Square with 70,000 people in attendance, and featured Kirk Franklin, Israel Houghton, Donnie McClurkin, Lionel Peterson, Jamal Bryant, Mike Aremu, Dunni Olanrewaju, Dc Envoys, Gordons, Asu Ekiye, Buchi, Tosin Martins, and Midnight Crew.\n\n2007 was the only year when The Experience did not hold in December; the concert was instead moved to 30 November. The musical performance was provided by Kirk Franklin, Israel Houghton, and Lionel Peterson.\n\nThe Experience held on the 5 December 2008 at the Tafawa Balewa Square. It featured Kirk Franklin, Donnie McClurkin, Don Moen, Fred Hammond, Kurt Carr, Chevelle Franklyn, Mary Mary, Muyiwa Olarewaju, ‘Dekunle Fuji and Midnight Crew.\n\nThe 4th edition of The Experience held on the 4 December 2009, featuring music by Lara George, Sammie Okposo, Don Moen, Gordons, Timi Dakolo, Chevelle Franklin, Donnie Mc Cluckin, Mike Aremu, Nikki Laoye, Rooftop MCs, Ron Kenoly,  Bebe and Cece Winans and Kirk Franklin.\n\nThe Experience held on the 3 December 2010 and featured Panam Percy Paul, Fred Hammond, Phil Driscoll, Judy Jacob, Don Moen, Papa San, Mary Mary, Mike Aremu, Sammy Okposo, Micah Stampley, Israel Houghton, and Chevelle Franklyn. Goodluck Jonathan, Nigeria’s former President, and Babatunde Fashola, Lagos’ former Governor, were in attendance. \n\n2011 marked the first and only time The Experience was not held at the Tafawa Balewa Square. The concert was moved to the Expo Center of Eko Hotels and Suites and lasted from 5 pm on 2 December to 1 am the next day. The Experience regular Don Moen, including acts Chevelle Franklyn, Micah Stampley and Kirk Franklin headlined the year’s performance. Also unique to the 2011 event was the requirement of a free ticket for attendance. \n\nThe 7th edition of The Experience held on the 7 December 2012 with a lineup of Don Moen, Israel Houghton, Fred Hammond, Micah Stampley, Chevelle Franklin, Deitrick Haddon, Timi Dakolo and the Soweto Spiritual Singers. Notable figures such as Yakubu Gowon, Tonye Cole, Olusegun Mimiko, Wale Adefarasin, Emmanuella Abimbola Fashola and Sam Adeyemi were in attendance. \n\nThe 2013 concert featured the performance of Don Moen, Donnie McClurkin, Yolanda Adams, Tye Tribbett, Israel Houghton, Cece Winans, Micah Stampley, Eben, Frank Edwards, Midnite Crew, Freke on December 6. \n\nOver 600,000 people attended the 2014 concert on 5 December, with Donnie McClurkin, Israel Houghton, Chevelle Franklin, Micah Stampley, Midnight Crew, Freke Umoh and Frank Edwards, Sinach, Nathaniel Bassey, Angella Christie, Onos Ariyo and Chioma Jesus performing. Notable figures such as Jimi Agbaje, Abimbola Fashola and Femi Fani-Kayode attended the concert. \n\nOn December 4, 2015, Paul Adefarasin led a press conference at the Eko Hotels and Suites to kickstart the year’s concert that would be taken place later that day. The musical performance was by Don Moen, Fred Hammond, Frank Edwards, Donnie McClurkin, Hezekiah Walker, Kim Burrell, Jessica Reedy, Sonnie Badu, Chioma Jesus, Nathaniel Bassey, Sammie Okposo, Midnight Crew, Micah Stampley, Julius Nglass and the Lagos City Chorale. Unlike the previous one-day events, 2015 marked the first time additional dates were included in the concert; two other dates, December 12 and 15, were added. Over 700,000 people attended. \n\nThe 2016 event held on 2 December and saw a gathering of 700,000 with performances from Don Moen, Travis Greene, Donnie McClurkin, Tope Alabi, Tim Godfrey, Segun Obe, Samsong, Onos Ariyo, Gabriel Eziashi, Frank Edwards, Smokie Norful, Micah Stampley, Eno Michael, Chioma Jesus. Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his wife Oludolapo Osinbajo attended the concert. Also present were celebrities Don Jazzy, Tiwa Savage, Dr SID, Toke Makinwa. \n\nIn 2017, The Experience held on December 1. Victor Adeyemi of Global Harvest Church delivered an opening prayer at the event. The musical performance was by Tim Godfrey, Nathaniel Bassey, Chioma Jesus, Don Moen, Donnie McClurkin, Midnight Crew, Travis Greene, Tope Alabi, Frank Edwards, Sonnie Badu, Beejay Sax, Onos Ariyo, Eben, Micah Stampley and Kingsley “KaeStrings” Innocent. The 2017 concert had an attendance of over 700,000 people. \n\nAlso present at the 2017 event was Akinwunmi Ambode, the Governor of Lagos. Adefarasin presented the Governor with a certificate of having built 100 school laboratories. \n\nAsides from 2011 when the concert was held at Eko Hotels and Suites, The Experience has held at the Tafawa Balewa Square every year. The square, which usually has a capacity for 50,000 people, is fitted with extra seating to accommodate the event's large crowd. \n\nDue to the central location of Tafawa Balewa Square, The Experience usually results in above average traffic conditions. A force made up of the Lagos State Traffic Management (LASTMA) and the Nigeria Police Force is deployed to ease traffic flow each year. \n\nThe police, Rapid Response Squad, Anti-Bomb Squad and private security agents are usually present at each event to provide additional security. \n\nThe Experience official website \n"}
{"id": "12825817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12825817", "title": "The Unsinkable Molly Brown (musical)", "text": "The Unsinkable Molly Brown (musical)\n\nThe original Broadway production opened at the Winter Garden Theatre on November 3, 1960 and closed on February 10, 1962 after 532 performances and 1 preview. It was directed by Dore Schary and choreographed by Peter Gennaro. The opening cast included Tammy Grimes, Harve Presnell, and Jack Harrold. Grimes won the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Musical. Grimes appeared in the US national tour in 1962, including Los Angeles and San Francisco in April and June 1962, respectively.\n\nPresnell reprised his stage role for the 1964 film, also entitled \"The Unsinkable Molly Brown\" starring Debbie Reynolds. The two starred in a 1989-1990 national tour.\n\nThe first West End production, with Abi Finley and Sean Pol McGreevy in the leading roles, opened in May 2009.\n\nA reading of \"Molly Brown\", the first of the revised versions by Dick Scanlan, took place in Denver at the Denver Center Theatre Company's Colorado New Play Summit in February 2009. The show was directed by Kathleen Marshall and starred Kerry O'Malley as Molly, Marc Kudisch as James Joseph \"J.J.\" Brown, William Parry as Horace Tabor, and Linda Mugelston as Polly Pry. The story was revised \"to use more elements from the real-life story\" of Molly Brown.\n\nA reading of the musical was held in May 2010. The show was directed/choreographed by Kathleen Marshall, music supervision by Michael Rafter, with Sutton Foster as Molly and Craig Bierko as J.J. Brown. This reading had only Molly and J.J. as characters, cutting out all others that were in the previous version.\n\nIn December 2011, another reading of the musical by Scanlan was staged. The creative team was the same as in May 2010, and it starred Foster and Kudisch again, Teal Wicks, Francis Jue and Zachary James, among others. The score consists of about half from the original musical and \"the rest of the \"new\" score is made up songs from the late Willson's catalog.\"\n\nOpening September 12, 2014, a full production of the Dick Scanlan revisioning was produced at the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, running through October 26. The production featured Beth Malone and Burke Moses. The plotline differed significantly from the original production, opening with Molly in the \"Titanic\" lifeboat, and then flashing back to follow her life from her first visit to Leadville. The production received favorable reviews from local reviewers and a notice in the \"New York Times\", \"A New Crew Salvages Old Molly Brown.\"\n\nIn the early 1900s, feisty tomboy Molly Tobin wrestles with her three younger brothersand tells them and her father that she wants to learn to read and write and to find a rich husband (\"I Ain't Down Yet\"). Molly makes her way to the Saddle Rock saloon in Leadville, Colorado and applies for a job. On the way to Leadville, Colorado she meets J.J. \"Leadville\" Johnny Brown, who falls in love with her and promises to give her whatever she wants (\"I'll Never Say No\"). After they marry, Johnny sells a claim and provides Molly with the money she wants, enough to enter the high social life in Denver (\"Beautiful People of Denver\"). Molly and Johnny, now dressed in gaudy finery, are made fun of by the Denver society people she wants to impress, and they travel to Europe, against Johnny's better instincts. \n\nThe couple, and especially Molly, are welcomed and accepted by European royalty, but the attentions of Prince DeLong towards Molly upset Johnny and he returns to Leadville alone. Molly realizes that Johnny is her true love, and she sails for home on the RMS \"Titanic\" (\"Dolce Far Niente\"). As the \"Titanic\" sinks and the tragedy unfolds, Molly survives in one of the lifeboats. She finally is reunited with Johnny, who has built Molly her own \"castle,\" a beautiful home in the Rocky Mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46642597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46642597", "title": "Thomas Guerra", "text": "Thomas Guerra\n\nThomas Miguel Guerra (a.k.a. Ashton Lucian Chavez or Tomii Guerra) (born February 23, 1985) is an American landscape architect who became the first person in the state of California to be convicted for intentionally infecting another individual with HIV. In court, prosecutors presented 11,000 text messages and 36 audio clips to support their case against Guerra. Since then, Guerra has been accused of intentionally exposing dozens of other men to HIV. Guerra is the great-nephew of labor leader and civil rights activist Cesar Chavez.\n\nGuerra's ex-boyfriend filed a complaint against him with San Diego police in August, 2013.\n\nOn March 9, 2015, Guerra pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor charge of violating a California health code by failing to tell his former partner he was HIV positive. Guerra had previously pled not guilty and changed his plea the morning his trial was set to begin. According to San Diego City Attorney Jan Goldsmith, Guerra's case was the first prosecution of willful HIV transmission in San Diego. There had also been no previous successful prosecutions across the state since the California Legislature adopted the health statute in 1995.\n\nAdditional victims came forward after the case received media publicity; they filed cases in various California cities stating that Guerra had lied to them about being HIV-negative. Some of those cases are still pending. Investigators found 11,000 text messages and videos in which Guerra laughed about lying to sexual partners about his HIV status. \"Yay lol. Someone getting poz that day,\" Guerra texted to a friend. \"Poor Sucka.\" On 5 May 2015 Guerra was sentenced to six months in jail.\n\nDespite pressure to file the case as a felony, which would have carried a term of up to eight years in prison, San Diego District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis had twice declined to do so. At his sentencing hearing Guerra told Judge Lewis that he had \"no remorse\" for his actions. He blamed the victim, who he said was \"reckless\" because they had met on the gay dating site Grindr.\n\nJudge Lewis said she would have liked to have given Guerra a harsher sentence, but California statutes prevented her doing so: \"I don't think in my 25-plus years in law, I've ever seen somebody be so lacking of insight, blame or responsibility that you have demonstrated,\" she stated to Guerra before sentencing him to the maximum allowed per California statue, 6 months in jail. San Diego City Attorney Jan Goldsmith said in a statement that the sentence \"was inadequate given the damage done to the victim and the danger to the public posed by [Guerra].\"\n"}
{"id": "41274192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41274192", "title": "Tokyo Charter", "text": "Tokyo Charter\n\nThe International Military Tribunal for the Far East Charter (IMTFE Charter), also known as the Tokyo Charter, was the decree issued by General Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in Allied-occupied Japan, on 19 January 1946 that set down the laws and procedures by which the Tokyo Trials were to be conducted. The charter was issued months following the surrender of Japan on September 2, 1945, which brought World War II to an end.\n\nModeled after the Nuremberg Charter, the Tokyo Charter stipulated that crimes of the Japanese could be tried. Three categories of crimes were defined: crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity. Article 6 of the Tokyo Charter also stated that holding an official position or acting pursuant to order of his government or of a superior was no defense to war crimes, but that such circumstances may be considered in mitigation of punishment if the Tribunal determines that justice so requires.\n\nLike the Nuremberg Trials, the criminal procedure used by the Tokyo Trials was closer to civil law than to common law, with a trial before a panel of judges rather than a jury trial and with wide allowance for hearsay evidence. Defendants who were found guilty could appeal the verdict to the Allied Council for Japan. In addition, they would be permitted to present evidence in their defense and to cross-examine witnesses.\n\nUnlike the Nuremberg Charter, the Tokyo Charter was not part of a treaty or agreement among the Allies but it was substantially the same as the Nuremberg Charter. A major exception was that Emperor Hirohito was excluded from being tried for crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity.\n\nThe Tokyo Charter differs from the Nuremberg Charter, however, in two ways. The Tokyo Charter adds the categories of persons to be held responsible and it does not make \"persecution\" subject to \"religious\" grounds. The first variance is only in the drafting of Article 5(c) of the Tokyo Charter defining crimes against humanity since the same responsibility basis exists in the Charter thought not in Article 6(c) of the Nuremberg Charter. The second variance is because the Nazi crimes against the Jews did not have a counterpart in the Asian conflict.\n\nThe Nuremberg and Tokyo Charters were applicable only to major criminals, leaving other criminals to be tried by the Allies. In Germany, the Allies acted pursuant to Control Council Law No. 10 (CCL 10) in their respective zones of occupation. But they also relied on their military and national tribunals, where they applied their own laws. There was no counterpart in Japan to CCL 10 because the United States was the sole occupying power of Japan, whereas Germany was occupied by the four major Allies (United States, Great Britain, France, and the Soviet Union). The same legal issues pertaining to Article 6(c) of the Nuremberg Charter also apply to Article 5(c) of the Tokyo Charter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78006", "title": "Treaty of Rome", "text": "Treaty of Rome\n\nThe Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU; also referred to as the Treaty of Rome) is one of two treaties forming the constitutional basis of the European Union (EU), the other being the Treaty on European Union (TEU; also referred to as the \"Treaty of Maastricht\").\n\nThe Treaty of Rome brought about the creation of the European Economic Community (EEC), the best-known of the European Communities (EC). It was signed on 25 March 1957 by Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and West Germany and came into force on 1 January 1958. It remains one of the two most important treaties in the modern-day European Union (EU).\n\nThe TEEC proposed the progressive reduction of customs duties and the establishment of a customs union. It proposed to create a single market for goods, labour, services, and capital across the EEC's member states. It also proposed the creation of a Common Agriculture Policy, a Common Transport Policy and a European Social Fund, and established the European Commission.\n\nThe treaty's name has been retrospectively amended on several occasions since 1957. The Maastricht Treaty of 1992 removed the word \"economic\" from the Treaty of Rome's official title and, in 2009, the Treaty of Lisbon renamed it the \"Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union\".\n\nThe TFEU originated as the treaty establishing the European Economic Community (the EEC treaty), signed in Rome on 25 March 1957. On 7 February 1992, the Maastricht treaty, which led to the formation of the European Union, saw the EEC Treaty renamed as the Treaty establishing the European Community (TEC) and renumbered. The Maastricht reforms also saw the creation of the European Union's three pillar structure, of which the European Community was the major constituent part.\n\nFollowing the 2005 referenda, which saw the failed attempt at launching a European Constitution, on 13 December 2007 the Lisbon treaty was signed. This saw the 'TEC' renamed as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and, once again, renumbered. The Lisbon reforms resulted in the merging of the three pillars into the reformed European Union.\n\nIn 1951, the Treaty of Paris was signed, creating the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC). The Treaty of Paris was an international treaty based on international law, designed to help reconstruct the economies of the European continent, prevent war in Europe and ensure a lasting peace.\nThe original idea was conceived by Jean Monnet, a senior French civil servant and it was announced by Robert Schuman, the French Foreign Minister, in a declaration on 9 May 1950. The aim was to pool Franco-West German coal and steel production, because the two raw materials were the basis of the industry (including war industry) and power of the two countries. The proposed plan was that Franco-West German coal and steel production would be placed under a common High Authority within the framework of an organisation that would be open for participation to other European countries. The underlying political objective of the European Coal and Steel Community was to strengthen Franco-German cooperation and banish the possibility of war.\n\nFrance, West Germany, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands began negotiating the treaty. The Treaty Establishing the ECSC was signed in Paris on 18 April 1951, and entered into force on 24 July 1952. The Treaty expired on 23 July 2002, after fifty years, as was foreseen. The common market opened on 10 February 1953 for coal, iron ore and scrap, and on 1 May 1953 for steel.\n\nPartly in the aim of creating a United States of Europe, two further Communities were proposed, again by the French. A European Defence Community (EDC) and a European Political Community (EPC). While the treaty for the latter was being drawn up by the Common Assembly, the ECSC parliamentary chamber, the EDC was rejected by the French Parliament. President Jean Monnet, a leading figure behind the Communities, resigned from the High Authority in protest and began work on alternative Communities, based on economic integration rather than political integration.\n\nAs a result of the energy crises, the Common Assembly proposed extending the powers of the ECSC to cover other sources of energy. However, Monnet desired a separate Community to cover nuclear power, and Louis Armand was put in charge of a study into the prospects of nuclear energy use in Europe. The report concluded that further nuclear development was needed, in order to fill the deficit left by the exhaustion of coal deposits and to reduce dependence on oil producers. The Benelux states and West Germany were also keen on creating a general common market; however, this was opposed by France owing to its protectionist policy, and Monnet thought it too large and difficult a task. In the end, Monnet proposed creating both as separate Communities to attempt to satisfy all interests. As a result of the Messina Conference of 1955, Paul-Henri Spaak was appointed as chairman of a preparatory committee, the Spaak Committee, charged with the preparation of a report on the creation of a common European market.\n\nThe Spaak Report drawn up by the \"Spaak Committee\" provided the basis for further progress and was accepted at the Venice Conference (29 and 30 May 1956) where the decision was taken to organise an Intergovernmental Conference. The report formed the cornerstone of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Common Market and Euratom at Val Duchesse in 1956.\n\nThe outcome of the conference was that the new Communities would share the Common Assembly (now the Parliamentary Assembly) with the ECSC, as they would the European Court of Justice. However, they would not share the ECSC's Council of High Authority. The two new High Authorities would be called Commissions, from a reduction in their powers. France was reluctant to agree to more supranational powers; hence, the new Commissions would have only basic powers, and important decisions would have to be approved by the Council (of national Ministers), which now adopted majority voting. Euratom fostered co-operation in the nuclear field, at the time a very popular area, and the European Economic Community was to create a full customs union between members.\n\nThe conference led to the signing on 25 March 1957, of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and the Euratom Treaty at the Palazzo dei Conservatori on Capitoline Hill in Rome.\n\nIn March 2007, the BBC's \"Today\" radio programme reported that delays in printing the treaty meant that the document signed by the European leaders as the Treaty of Rome consisted of blank pages between its frontispiece and page for the signatures.\n\nThe Treaty of Rome, the original full name of which was the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community has been amended by successive treaties significantly changing its content. The 1992 Treaty of Maastricht established the European Union, the EEC becoming one of its three pillars, the European Community. Hence, the treaty was renamed the Treaty establishing the European Community (TEC).\n\nWhen the Treaty of Lisbon came into force in 2009, the pillar system was abandoned; hence, the EC ceased to exist as a legal entity separate from the EU. This led to the treaty being amended and renamed as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).\n\nIn March 2011, the European Council adopted a decision to amend the Treaty by adding a new paragraph to Article 136. The additional paragraph, which enables the establishment of a financial stability mechanism for the Eurozone, runs as follows:\n\nFor details of the content of the Treaty as it stands after 2009, see Treaties of the European Union#Treaty on the functioning of the European Union.\n\nMajor anniversaries of the signing of the Treaty of Rome have been commemorated in numerous ways.\n\nCommemorative coins have been struck by numerous European countries, notably at the 30th and 50th anniversaries (1987 and 2007 respectively).\n\nIn 2007, celebrations culminated in Berlin with the Berlin declaration preparing the Lisbon Treaty.\n\nIn 2017, Rome was the centre of multiple official and popular celebrations. Street demonstrations were largely in favour of European unity and integration, according to several news sources.\n\nThe Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (2007) is one of two primary Treaties of the European Union, alongside the Treaty on European Union (TEU). Originating as the Treaty of Rome, the TFEU forms the detailed basis of European Union law, by setting out the scope of the EU's authority to legislate and the principles of law in those areas where EU law operates.\n\nAccording to the historian Tony Judt, the Treaty of Rome did not represent a fundamental turning point in the history of European integration:\n\nThe consolidated TFEU consists of seven parts:\n\nIn principles, article 1 establishes the basis of the treaty and its legal value. Articles 2 to 6 outline the competencies of the EU according to the level of powers accorded in each area. Articles 7 to 14 set out social principles, articles 15 and 16 set out public access to documents and meetings and article 17 states that the EU shall respect the status of religious, philosophical and non-confessional organisations under national law.\n\nThe second part begins with article 18 which outlaws, within the limitations of the treaties, discrimination on the basis of nationality. Article 19 states the EU will \"combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation\". Articles 20 to 24 establishes EU citizenship and accords rights to it; to free movement, consular protection from other states, vote and stand in local and European elections, right to petition Parliament and the European Ombudsman and to contact and receive a reply from EU institutions in their own language. Article 25 requires the Commission to report on the implementation of these rights every three years.\n\nPart 3 is the largest in the TFEU. Articles 26 to 197 concern the substantive policies and actions of the EU.\n\nIncluding the customs union\n\nCommon Agricultural Policy and Common Fisheries Policy\n\nfree movement of people, services and capital\n\nIncluding police and justice co-operation\n\nEuropean Union competition law, taxation and harmonisation of regulations (note Article 101 and Article 102)\n\nArticles 119 to 144 concern economic and monetary policy, including articles on the euro. \"Chapter 1: Economic policy – Article 126\" deals with how excessive member state debt is handled. \"Chapter 2: Monetary policy – Article 127\" outlines that the European System of Central Banks should maintain price stability and work with the principles of an open markets and free competition. The \"Article 140\" describes the criteria for inclusion in monetary union (the euro) or having exception from it, and also says that it is a majority of the council, not the state alone, which decides upon usage of euro or national currency. Thereby are states obliged (except UK and Denmark) to introduce the euro if the council finds they fulfil the criteria.\n\nTitle IX concerns employment policy, under articles 145–150. Title X concerns social policy, and with reference to the European Social Charter 1961 and the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers 1989. This gives rise to the weight of European labour law.\n\nTitle XI establishes the European Social Fund under articles 162–164. Title XII, articles 165 and 166 concern education, vocational training, youth and sport policies. Title XIII concerns culture, in article 167. Title XIV allows measures for public health, under article 168. Title XV empowers the EU to act for consumer protection, in article 169.\n\nTitle XVI, articles 170–172 empower action to develop and integrate Trans-European Networks. Title XVII, article 173, regards the EU's industrial policy, to promote industry. Title XVIII, articles 174 to 178 concern economic, social and territorial cohesion (reducing disparities in development). Title XIX concerns research and development and space policy, under which the European Research Area and European Space Policy are developed.\n\nTitle XX concerns the increasingly important environmental policy, allowing action under articles 191 to 193. Title XXI, article 194, establishes the Energy policy of the European Union.\n\nTitle XXII, article 195 is tourism. Title XXIII, article 196 is civil protection. Title XXIV, article 197 is administrative co-operation.\n\nPart 4, in articles 198 to 204, deals with association of overseas territories. Article 198 sets the objective of association as promoting the economic and social development of those associated territories as listed in annexe 2. The following articles elaborate on the form of association such as customs duties.\n\nPart 5, in articles 205 to 222, deals with EU foreign policy. Article 205 states that external actions must be in accordance with the principles laid out in Chapter 1 Title 5 of the Treaty on European Union. Article 206 and 207 establish the common commercial (external trade) policy of the EU. Articles 208 to 214 deal with co-operation on development and humanitarian aid for third countries. Article 215 deals with sanctions while articles 216 to 219 deal with procedures for establishing international treaties with third countries. Article 220 instructs the High Representative and Commission to engage in appropriate co-operation with other international organisations and article 221 establishes the EU delegations. Article 222, the \"Solidarity clause\" states that members shall come to the aid of a fellow member who is subject to a terrorist attack, natural disaster or man-made disaster. This includes the use of military force.\n\nPart 6, in articles 223 to 334, elaborates on the institutional provisions in the Treaty on European Union. As well as elaborating on the structures, articles 288 to 299 outline the forms of legislative acts and procedures of the EU. Articles 300 to 309 establish the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Investment Bank. Articles 310 to 325 outline the EU budget. Finally, articles 326 to 334 establishes provision for enhanced co-operation.\n\nPart 7, in articles 335 to 358, deals with final legal points, such as territorial and temporal application, the seat of institutions (to be decided by member states, but this is enacted by a protocol attached to the treaties), immunities and the effect on treaties signed before 1958 or the date of accession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22326649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326649", "title": "Triplemanía II-B", "text": "Triplemanía II-B\n\nTriplemanía II-B was a major \"lucha libre\", or professional wrestling event Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) that took place at \"Auditorio Benito Juárez\" in Zapopan, Jalisco on May 15, 1994. The show was the second of three Triplemanía II shows held in 1994, preceded by Triplemanía II-A, with a subsequent show held in 12 days later. 1994 was the first year AAA held multiple Triplemanía shows in a year, a tradition they would continue through 1997, after which Triplemanía became a single annual event. The annual Triplemanía show(s) are AAA's biggest show of the year, serving as the culmination of major storylines and feature wrestlers from all over the world competing in what has been described as AAA's version of WrestleMania or their Super Bowl event.\n\nThe Main event featured a Six-man \"Lucha Libre rules\" tag team match between the teams of Konnan, Perro Aguayo, and Cien Caras and the \"Los Gringos Locos\" team of Jake Roberts, Love Machine, and Miguel Pérez Jr.. The semi-main event featured a best two-out-of-three falls \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or bet match where both Máscara Sagrada and Black Cat put their mask on the line in the match. The show featured Japanese wrestlers Jushin Thunder Liger and Tiger Mask III on loan from New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW). The fifth match of the night featured wrestlers who had worked primarily for the Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) until that point, Shu el Guerrero, Scorpio, Jr., and Gran Hamada, fighting AAA representatives \"Los Payasos\" (\"The Clowns\"; Coco Rojo, Coco Verde and Coco Amarillo)\n\nAAA founder Antonio Peña had originally envisioned the Triplemanía series as three shows held over the summer, but for the first year AAA only held 1 show, Triplemanía I. In 1994 AAA announced that they would hold three Triplemanía shows, building the storylines into its climax at the third and final Triplemanía II show. The first show, Triplemanía II-A, would take place in the outdoor baseball stadium in Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes on April 26, the second show, Triplemanía II-B, would be at the Estadio Olímpico Benito Juárez in Zapopan, Jalisco on May 15 and the third and final Triplemanía II show, Triplemanía II-C, would happen at the El Toro bullfighting arena in Tijuana, Baja California on May 27, 1994.\n\nThe Triplemanía show featured eight professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nThe show was a direct build to Triplemanía II-C held only 12 days later in Tijuana, Baja California. Triplemanía II-C saw Konnan finally gain revenge on Jake Roberts as he defeated Roberts in two straight falls to force him to be shaved bald after the match. Most of AAA's roster, both \"tecnicos\" and \"rudos\", came to the ring after the match to show their unity and to ensure Roberts had his hair shaved off. Roberts would remain with AAA for several months after the show but was not involved in any major storylines after the loss to Konnan. The \"Los Gringos Locos\" storyline carried AAA into their subsequent major shows \"Night of Champions\" and later on their first ever pay-per-view (PPV) AAA When Worlds Collide that was driven by the feud between \"a Pareja del Terror\" (Eddy Guerrero and Love Machine) facing off against El Hijo del Santo and Octagón in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\" match where Guerrero and Love Machine ended up losing their hair. 19 days afterwards Love Machine, real name Art Barr, dies of unknown causes. The popularity of Konnan in the wake of his victory over Jake Robers made his turn to the \"rudo\" side months later ever more shocking, with Konnan attacking his longtime friend Perro Aguayo during a match and joining \"Los Gringos Locos\" instead. At \"When Worlds Collide\" Aguayo defeated Konnan in a steel cage match.\n\nA few days after the show the then-Mexican National Middleweight Champion was involved in a car accident where he injured his hand. Due to the injury the local boxing and wrestling commission could not give him medical clearance to wrestle against Blue Panther at Triplemanía II-C, causing him to forfeit the championship to Blue Panther.\n\nJohn Molinario, who writes about wrestling for the Canadian Online Explorer, described the show as \"possibly the best TripleMania show ever.\" and stated that it was \"from top to bottom a sensational show\". \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" founder and editor Dave Meltzer commented that the \"show was awesome. It was among the greatest shows I probably ever saw\" after witnessing the show live and in person. Meltzer rated the \"Atómicos\" tag team match at four-and-a-half star, the \"lucha de apuestas\" match at four-and-three-quarters stars, while giving the main event six-man tag team match four stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "32071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32071", "title": "USS Liberty incident", "text": "USS Liberty incident\n\nThe USS \"Liberty\" incident was an attack on a United States Navy technical research ship, , by Israeli Air Force jet fighter aircraft and Israeli Navy motor torpedo boats, on 8 June 1967, during the Six-Day War. The combined air and sea attack killed 34 crew members (naval officers, seamen, two marines, and one civilian), wounded 171 crew members, and severely damaged the ship. At the time, the ship was in international waters north of the Sinai Peninsula, about northwest from the Egyptian city of Arish.\n\nIsrael apologized for the attack, saying that the USS \"Liberty\" had been attacked in error after being mistaken for an Egyptian ship. Both the Israeli and U.S. governments conducted inquiries and issued reports that concluded the attack was a mistake due to Israeli confusion about the ship's identity, though others, including survivors of the attack, have rejected these conclusions and maintain that the attack was deliberate.\n\nIn May 1968, the Israeli government paid (equivalent to in ) to the in compensation to the families of the 34 men killed in the attack. In March 1969, Israel paid a further $ ($ in ) to the men who had been wounded. In December 1980, it agreed to pay $ ($ in ) as the final settlement for material damage to \"Liberty\" itself plus 13 years of interest.\n\n was originally the (light) civilian cargo vessel \"Simmons Victory\", a mass-produced, standard-design Victory Ship, the follow-on series to the famous Liberty Ship that supplied the Allies with cargo during World War Two. It was acquired by the United States Navy, converted to an Auxiliary Technical Research Ship (AGTR), (a cover name for NSA \"spy ships\" doing signals intelligence) and began its first deployment in 1965, to waters off the west coast of Africa. It carried out several more operations during the next two years.\n\nDuring the Six-Day War between Israel and several Arab nations, the United States of America maintained a neutral country status. Several days before the war began, the USS \"Liberty\" was ordered to proceed to the eastern Mediterranean area to perform a signals intelligence collection mission in international waters near the north coast of Sinai, Egypt. After the war erupted, due to concerns about its safety as it approached its patrol area, several messages were sent to \"Liberty\" to increase its allowable closest point of approach (CPA) to Egypt's and Israel's coasts from , respectively, to , and then later to for both countries. Unfortunately, due to ineffective message handling and routing, the CPA change messages were not received until after the attack.\n\nAccording to Israeli sources, at the start of the war on 5 June, General Yitzhak Rabin (then IDF Chief of Staff) informed Commander Ernest Carl Castle, the American Naval Attaché in Tel Aviv, that Israel would defend its coast with every means at its disposal, including sinking unidentified ships. Also, he asked the U.S. to keep its ships away from Israel's shore or at least inform Israel of their exact position.\n\nAmerican sources said that no inquiry about ships in the area was made until after the \"Liberty\" attack ended. In a message sent from U.S. Secretary of State Dean Rusk to U.S. Ambassador Walworth Barbour, in Tel Aviv, Israel, Rusk asked for \"urgent confirmation\" of Israel's statement. Barbour responded: \"No request for info on U.S. ships operating off Sinai was made until after \"Liberty\" incident.\" Further, Barbour stated: \"Had Israelis made such an inquiry it would have been forwarded immediately to the chief of naval operations and other high naval commands and repeated to dept [Department of State].\"\n\nWith the outbreak of war, Captain William L. McGonagle of \"Liberty\" immediately asked Vice Admiral William I. Martin at the United States Sixth Fleet headquarters to send a destroyer to accompany \"Liberty\" and serve as its armed escort and as an auxiliary communications center. The following day, 6 June, Admiral Martin replied: \"\"Liberty\" is a clearly marked United States ship in international waters, not a participant in the conflict and not a reasonable subject for attack by any nation. Request denied.\" He promised, however, that in the unlikely event of an inadvertent attack, jet fighters from the Sixth Fleet would be overhead in ten minutes.\n\nMeanwhile, on 6 June, at the United Nations, in response to United Arab Republic complaints that the United States was supporting Israel in the conflict, U.S. Ambassador Arthur Goldberg said to the Security Council that aircraft of the Sixth Fleet were several hundred miles from the conflict, indicating that elements of the Sixth Fleet itself were far from the conflict. When the statement was made this was the case, since \"Liberty\", now assigned to the Sixth Fleet, was in the central Mediterranean Sea, passing between Libya and Crete; but it would ultimately steam to about north of the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nOn the night of 7 June Washington time, early morning on 8 June, 01:10Z or 3:10 am local time, the Pentagon issued an order to Sixth Fleet headquarters to tell \"Liberty\" to come no closer than to Israel, Syria, or the Sinai coast (Oren, p. 263).\n\nAccording to the Naval Court of Inquiry and National Security Agency official history, the order to withdraw was not sent on the radio frequency that \"Liberty\" monitored for her orders until 15:25 Zulu, several hours after the attack, due to a long series of administrative and message routing problems. The Navy said a large volume of unrelated high-precedence traffic, including intelligence intercepts related to the conflict, were being handled at the time; and that this combined with a shortage of qualified Radiomen contributed to delayed sending of the withdrawal message.\n\nOfficial testimony combined with \"Liberty's\" deck log say that throughout the morning of the attack, 8 June, the ship was overflown, at various times and locations, by Israeli Air Force (IAF) aircraft. The primary aircraft type was the Nord Noratlas; there were also two unidentified delta-wing jets at about 9:00 am Sinai time (GMT+2). \"Liberty\" crewmembers say that one of the Noratlas aircraft flew so close to \"Liberty\" that noise from its propellers rattled the ship's deck plating, and that the pilots and crewmembers waved to each other. It was later reported, based on information from Israel Defense Forces sources, that the over-flights were coincidental, and that the aircraft were hunting for Egyptian submarines that had been spotted near the coast.\n\nAt about 5:45 am Sinai time, a ship-sighting report was received at Israeli Central Coastal Command (CCC) about \"Liberty\", identified by an aerial naval observer as \"apparently a destroyer, sailing west of Gaza\". The vessel's location was marked on a CCC Control Table, using a red marker, indicating an unidentified vessel. At about 6:00 am, the aerial naval observer, Major Uri Meretz, reported that the ship appeared like a U.S. Navy supply ship; the red marker was replaced with a green marker to indicate a neutral vessel, at about 9:00 am. At that same time, an Israeli jet fighter pilot reported that a ship north of Arish had fired at his aircraft after he tried to identify the vessel. Israeli naval command dispatched two destroyers to investigate, but they were returned to their previous positions at 9:40 am after doubts emerged during the pilot's debriefing. After the naval observer's Noratlas landed and he was debriefed, the ship he saw was further identified as the USS \"Liberty\", based on its \"GTR-5\" hull markings. USS \"Liberty's\" marker was removed from CCC's Control Table at 11:00 am, due to its positional information being considered stale.\n\nAt 11:24 am, Israeli Chief of Naval Operations received a report that Arish was being shelled from the sea. An inquiry into the source of the report was ordered to determine its validity. The report came from an Air Support Officer in Arish. Additionally, at 11:27 am Israeli Supreme Command Head of Operations received a report stating that a ship had been shelling Arish, but the shells had fallen short. (Investigative journalist James Bamford points out that \"Liberty\" had only four .50 caliber machine guns mounted on her decks and, thus, could not have shelled the coast.\n) The Head of Operations ordered that the report be verified, and determine whether or not Israeli Navy vessels were off the coast of Arish. At 11:45 am, another report arrived at Supreme Command saying two ships were approaching the Arish coast.\n\nThe shelling and ships reports were passed from Supreme Command to Fleet Operations Control Center. The Chief of Naval Operations took them seriously, and at 12:05 pm torpedo boat Division 914 was ordered to patrol in the direction of Arish.\n\nDivision 914, codenamed \"Pagoda\", was under the command of Commander Moshe Oren. It consisted of three torpedo boats numbered: T-203, T-204 and T-206. At 12:15 pm, Division 914 received orders to patrol a position north of Arish. As Commander Oren headed toward Arish, he was informed by Naval Operations of the reported shelling of Arish and told that IAF aircraft would be dispatched to the area after the target had been detected.\n\nChief of Staff Yitzhak Rabin was concerned that the supposed Egyptian shelling was the prelude to an amphibious landing that could outflank Israeli forces. Rabin reiterated the standing order to sink any unidentified ships in the area, but advised caution, as Soviet vessels were reportedly operating nearby.\n\nAt 1:41 pm, the torpedo boats detected an unknown vessel 20 miles northwest of Arish and off the coast of Bardawil. The ship's speed was estimated on their radars. The Combat Information Center officer on T-204, Ensign Aharon Yifrah, reported to the boat's captain, Commander Moshe Oren, that the target had been detected at a range of , that her speed had been tracked for a few minutes, after which he had determined that the target was moving westward at a speed of . These data were forwarded to the Fleet Operations Control Center.\n\nThe speed of the target was significant because it indicated that the target was a combat vessel. Moreover, Israeli forces had standing orders to fire on any unknown vessels sailing in the area at over , a speed which, at the time, could only be attained by warships. The Chief of Naval Operations asked the torpedo boats to double-check their calculations. Yifrah twice recalculated and confirmed his assessment. A few minutes later, Commander Oren reported that the target, now from his position, was moving at a speed of on a different heading. Bamford, however, points out that \"Liberty\"s top speed was far below 28 knots. His sources say that at the time of the attack \"Liberty\" was following her signal-intercept mission course along the northern Sinai coast, at about speed.\n\nThe data on the ship's speed, together with its direction, indicated that it was an Egyptian destroyer fleeing toward port after shelling Arish. The torpedo boats gave chase, but did not expect to overtake their target before it reached Egypt. Commander Oren requested that the Israeli Air Force dispatch aircraft to intercept. At 1:48 pm, the Chief of Naval Operations requested dispatch of fighter aircraft to the ship's location.\nThe IAF dispatched two Mirage III fighter jets that arrived at \"Liberty\" at about . The formation leader, Captain Iftach Spector, attempted to identify the ship. He communicated via radio to one of the torpedo boats his observation that the ship appeared like a military ship with one smokestack and one mast. Also, he communicated, in effect, that the ship appeared to him like a destroyer or another type of small ship. In a post-attack statement, the pilots said they saw no distinguishable markings or flag on the ship.\n\nAt this point, a recorded exchange took place between a command headquarters weapons systems officer, one of the air controllers, and the chief air controller questioning a possible American presence. Immediately after the exchange, at 1:57 pm, the chief air controller, Lieutenant-Colonel Shmuel Kislev, cleared the Mirages to attack.\n\nAfter being cleared to attack, the Mirages dove on the ship and attacked with 30-mm cannons and rockets. The attack came a few minutes after the crew completed a chemical attack drill, with Captain McGonagle on the command bridge. The crew was in \"stand-down mode\", with their helmets and life jackets removed, except battle readiness \"modified condition three\" was set which meant that the ship's four .50 caliber machine guns were manned and ammunition ready for loading and firing. Eight crewmen were either killed immediately or received fatal injuries and died later, and 75 were wounded. Among the wounded was McGonagle, who was hit in the right thigh and arm. During the attack, antennas were severed, gas drums caught fire, and the ship's flag was knocked down. McGonagle sent an urgent request for help to the Sixth Fleet, \"Under attack by unidentified jet aircraft, require immediate assistance.\"\n\nThe Mirages left after expending their ammunition, and were replaced by two Dassault Mysteres armed with napalm bombs, flown by Captain Yossi Zuk and his wingman, Yaakov Hamermish. The Mysteres released their payloads over the ship and strafed it with their cannons. Much of the ship's superstructure caught fire. The Mysteres were readying to attack again when the Israeli Navy, alerted by the absence of return fire, warned Kislev that the target could be Israeli. Kislev told the pilots not to attack if there was any doubt about identification, and the Israeli Navy quickly contacted all of its vessels in the area. The Israeli Navy found that none of its vessels were under fire, and the aircraft were cleared to attack. However, Kislev was still disturbed by a lack of return fire, and requested one last attempt to identify the ship. Captain Zuk, made an attempt at identification while strafing the ship. He reported seeing no flag, but saw the ship's GTR-5 marking. Kislev immediately ordered the attack stopped. Kislev guessed that the ship was American.\n\nThe fact that the ship had Latin alphabet markings led Chief of Staff Rabin to fear that the ship was Soviet. Though Egyptian warships were known to disguise their identities with Western markings, they usually displayed Arabic letters and numbers only. Rabin ordered the torpedo boats to remain at a safe distance from the ship, and sent in two Hornet (Aérospatiale Super Frelon) helicopters to search for survivors. These radio communications were recorded by Israel. The order also was recorded in the torpedo boat's log, although Commander Oren alleged not to have received it. The order to cease fire was given at 2:20 pm, twenty-four minutes before the torpedo boats arrived at the \"Liberty\"s position. At 2:35 pm, \"Liberty\" was hit by a torpedo launched from one of the torpedo boats.\n\nDuring the interval, crewmen aboard \"Liberty\" hoisted a large American flag. During the early part of the air attack and before the torpedo boats were sighted, \"Liberty\" sent a distress message that was received by Sixth Fleet aircraft carrier USS \"Saratoga\". Aircraft carrier USS \"America\" dispatched eight aircraft. The carrier had been in the middle of strategic exercises. Vice-Admiral William I. Martin recalled the aircraft minutes later.\n\nMcGonagle testified at the naval court of inquiry that during \"the latter moments of the air attack, it was noted that three high speed boats were approaching the ship from the northeast on a relative bearing of approximately 135 [degrees] at a distance of about 15 [nautical] miles. The ship at the time was still on [westward] course 283 [degrees] true, speed unknown, but believed to be in excess of five knots.\" McGonagle testified that he \"believed that the time of initial sighting of the torpedo boats ... was about 14:20\", and that the \"boats appeared to be in a wedge type formation with the center boat the lead point of the wedge. Estimated speed of the boats was about ,\" and that it \"appeared that they were approaching the ship in a torpedo launch attitude\".\n\nWhen the torpedo boats arrived, Commander Oren could see that the ship could not be the destroyer that had supposedly shelled Arish or any ship capable of speed. According to Michael Limor, an Israeli naval reservist serving on one of the torpedo boats, they attempted to contact the ship by heliograph and radio, but received no response. At , T-204 paused and signalled \"AA\" – \"identify yourself.\" Due to damaged equipment, McGonagle could only reply with \"AA\" using a handheld Aldis lamp. Oren recalled receiving a similar response from the \"Ibrahim el Awal\", an Egyptian destroyer captured by Israel during the Suez Crisis, and was convinced that he was facing an enemy ship.\n\nHe consulted an Israeli identification guide to Arab fleets and concluded the ship was the Egyptian supply ship \"El Quseir\", based on observing its deckline, midship bridge and smokestack. The captain of boat T203 reached the same conclusion independently. The boats organized into battle formation, but did not attack.\n\nAs the torpedo boats rapidly approached, Captain McGonagle ordered a sailor to proceed to machine gun Mount 51 and open fire. However, he noticed that the boats appeared to be flying an Israeli flag, and \"realized that there was a possibility of the aircraft having been Israeli and the attack had been conducted in error\". Captain McGonagle ordered the man at gun mount 51 to hold fire, but a short burst was fired at the torpedo boats before the man was able to understand the order. McGonagle observed that machine gun Mount 53 began firing at the center torpedo boat at about the same time gun mount 51 fired, and that its fire was \"extremely effective and blanketed the area and the center torpedo boat\". Machine gun mount 53 was located on the starboard amidships side, behind the pilot house. McGonagle could not see or \"get to mount 53 from the starboard wing of the bridge\". So, he \"sent Mr. Lucas around the port side of the bridge, around to the skylights, to see if he could tell [Seaman] Quintero, whom [he] believed to be the gunner on Machine gun 53, to hold fire\".\n\nEnsign Lucas \"reported back in a few minutes in effect that he saw no one at mount 53\". Lucas, who had left the command bridge during the air attack and returned to assist Captain McGonagle immediately before a torpedo hit the ship, believed that the gunfire sound was likely from ammunition cooking off, due to a nearby fire. Prior to this time, after a torpedo hit the ship, Lucas had granted a request from Quintero to fire at the torpedo boats before heat from a nearby fire chased him from gun mount 53. (McGonagle later testified, at the Court of Inquiry, that this was likely the \"extremely effective\" firing event he had observed.)\n\nAfter coming under fire, the torpedo boats returned fire with their cannons, killing \"Liberty's\" helmsman. The torpedo boats then launched five torpedoes at the \"Liberty\". At 1235Z (2:35 local time) a torpedo hit \"Liberty\" on the starboard side forward of the superstructure, creating a wide hole in what had been a former cargo hold converted to the ship's research spaces and killing 25 servicemen, almost all of them from the intelligence section, and wounding dozens. It has been said the torpedo hit a major hull frame that absorbed much of the energy; crew members reported that if the torpedo had missed the frame the \"Liberty\" would have split in two. The other four torpedoes missed the ship.\n\nThe torpedo boats then closed in and strafed the ship's hull with their cannons and machine guns. According to some crewmen, the torpedo boats fired at damage control parties and sailors preparing life rafts for launch. (See disputed details below.) A life raft which floated from the ship was picked up by T-203 and found to bear US Navy markings. T-204 then circled \"Liberty\", and Oren spotted the designation GTR-5, but saw no flag. It took until 3:30 pm to establish the ship's identity. Shortly before the \"Liberty\"s identity was confirmed, the \"Saratoga\" launched eight aircraft armed with conventional weapons towards \"Liberty\". After the ship's identity was confirmed, the General Staff was notified and an apology was sent to naval attaché Castle. The aircraft approaching \"Liberty\" were recalled to the \"Saratoga\".\n\nAccording to transcripts of intercepted radio communications, published by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), at about 2:30 pm, near the beginning of the torpedo boat attack, two IAF helicopters were dispatched to \"Liberty\"s location. The helicopters arrived at about 3:10 pm, about 35 minutes after a torpedo hit the ship. After arriving, one of the helicopter pilots was asked, by his ground-based controller, to verify that the ship was flying an American flag. The helicopters conducted a brief search for crew members of the ship who may have fallen overboard during the air attack. No one was found. The helicopters left the ship at about 3:20 pm.\n\nAt about 4 pm, two hours after the attack began, Israel informed the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv that its military forces had mistakenly attacked a U.S. Navy ship. When the ship was \"confirmed to be American\" the torpedo boats returned at about 4:40 pm to offer help; it was refused by the \"Liberty\". Later, Israel provided a helicopter to fly U.S. naval attaché Commander Castle to the ship. (pp. 32,34)\n\nIn Washington, President Lyndon B. Johnson had received word from the Joint Chiefs of Staff that \"Liberty\" had been torpedoed by an unknown vessel at 9:50 am eastern time. Johnson assumed that the Soviets were involved, and hotlined Moscow with news of the attack and the dispatch of jets from \"Saratoga\". He chose not to make any public statements and delegated this task to Phil G. Goulding, who was an Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs at the time.\n\nSoon afterward, the Israelis said that they had mistakenly attacked the ship. The Johnson administration conveyed \"strong dismay\" to Israeli ambassador Avraham Harman. Meanwhile, apologies were soon sent by Israeli Prime Minister Levi Eshkol, Foreign Minister Abba Eban, and chargé d'affaires Efraim Evron. Within 48 hours, Israel offered to compensate the victims and their families.\n\nThough \"Liberty\" was severely damaged, with a 39 ft wide by 24 ft high (12 m x 7.3 m) hole and a twisted keel, her crew kept her afloat, and she was able to leave the area under her own power. \"Liberty\" was later met by the destroyers USS \"Davis\" and USS \"Massey\", and the cruiser USS \"Little Rock\". Medical personnel were transferred to \"Liberty\", and she was escorted to Malta, where she was given interim repairs. After these were completed in July 1967, \"Liberty\" returned to the U.S. She was decommissioned in June 1968 and struck from the Naval Vessel Register. \"Liberty\" was transferred to United States Maritime Administration (MARAD) in December 1970 and sold for scrap in 1973.\n\nFrom the start, the response to Israeli statements of mistaken identity ranged between frank disbelief and unquestioning acceptance within the administration in Washington. A communication to the Israeli Ambassador on 10 June, by Secretary Rusk stated, among other things: \nGeorge Lenczowski notes: \"It was significant that, in contrast to his secretary of state, President Johnson fully accepted the Israeli version of the tragic incident.\" He notes that Johnson himself only included one small paragraph about the \"Liberty\" in his autobiography, in which he accepted the Israeli explanation of \"error\", but also minimized the whole affair and distorted the actual number of dead and wounded, by lowering them from 34 to 10 and 171 to 100, respectively. Lenczowski further states: \"It seems Johnson was more interested in avoiding a possible confrontation with the Soviet Union, ... than in restraining Israel.\"\n\nMcGonagle received the Medal of Honor, the highest U.S. medal, for his actions. The Medal of Honor is generally presented by the President of the United States in the White House, but this time it was awarded at the Washington Navy Yard by the Secretary of the Navy in an unpublicized ceremony, breaking with established tradition.\n\nOther \"Liberty\" sailors received decorations for their actions during and after the attack, but most of the award citations omitted mention of Israel as the perpetrator. In 2009, however, a Silver Star awarded to crewmember Terry Halbardier, who braved machine-gun and cannon fire to repair a damaged antenna that restored the ship's communications, in the award citation named Israel as the attacker.\n\nAmerican inquiries, memoranda, records of testimony, and various reports involving or mentioning the \"Liberty\" attack include, but are not limited to, the following:\n\nThe U.S. Naval Court of Inquiry record contains testimony by fourteen \"Liberty\" crew members and five subject matter experts; exhibits of attack damage photographs, various messages and memoranda; and findings of fact. The court concluded that the testimony record revealed \"a shallow investigation, plagued by myriad disagreements between the captain and his crew\". As to culpability, the court said \"It was not the responsibility of the court to rule on the culpability of the attackers, and no evidence was heard from the attacking nation\", the court concluded that \"available evidence combines to indicate ... (that the attack was) a case of mistaken identity.\" Additionally, the Court found that \"heroism displayed by the Commanding Officer, officers and men of the \"Liberty\" was exceptional.\"\n\nThe Joint Chief of Staff's Report contains findings of fact related only to communication system failures associated with the \"Liberty\" attack. It was not concerned with matters of culpability, nor does it contain statements thereof.\n\nThe CIA Memoranda consist of two documents: one dated June 13, 1967, and the other dated June 21, 1967. Someone said the June 13 memorandum is an \"account of circumstances of the attack ... compiled from all available sources\". The June 21 memorandum is a point-by-point analysis of Israeli inquiry findings of fact. It concludes: \"The attack was not made in malice toward the U.S. and was by mistake, but the failure of the IDF Headquarters and the attacking aircraft to identify the \"Liberty\" and the subsequent attack by torpedo boats were both incongruous and indicative of gross negligence.\"\n\nThe Clark Clifford Report consists of a review of \"all available information on the subject\" and \"deals with the question of Israeli culpability\", according to its transmittal memorandum. The report concludes: \"The unprovoked attack on the \"Liberty\" constitutes a flagrant act of gross negligence for which the Israeli Government should be held completely responsible, and the Israeli military personnel involved should be punished.\"\n\nThe Senate Foreign Relations Committee Testimony contains, as an aside matter during hearings concerning a foreign aid authorization bill, questions and statements from several senators and responses from then Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, about the \"Liberty\" attack. For the most part, the senators were dismayed about the attack, as expressed by Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper: \"From what I have read I can't tolerate for one minute that this [attack] was an accident.\" Also, there was concern about obtaining more information about the attack, as expressed by Committee chairman J. William Fulbright: \"We asked for [the attack investigation report] about two weeks ago and have not received it yet from Secretary Rusk. ... By the time we get to it we will be on some other subject.\" Secretary McNamara promised fast delivery of the investigation report (\" ...  you will have it in four hours.\"), and concluded his remarks by saying: \"I simply want to emphasize that the investigative report does not show any evidence of a conscious intent to attack a U.S. vessel.\"\n\nThe House Armed Services Committee investigation report is titled, \"Review of Department of Defense Worldwide Communications\". It was not an investigation focused on the \"Liberty\" attack; although, the committee's report contains a section that describes communications flow involved with the \"Liberty\" incident.\n\nThe NSA History Report is, as its name connotes, a historical report that cited the U.S. Naval Court of Inquiry record, various military and government messages and memorandum, and personal interviews for its content. The report ends with a section entitled, \"Unanswered Questions\", and provides no conclusion regarding culpability.\n\nThe \"Liberty\" Veterans Association (composed of veterans from the ship) states that U.S. congressional investigations and other U.S. investigations were not actually investigations into the attack, but rather reports using evidence only from the U.S. Navy Court of Inquiry, or investigations unrelated to culpability that involved issues such as communications. In their view, the U.S. Navy Court of Inquiry is the only actual investigation on the incident to date. They say it was hastily conducted, in only 10 days, even though the court's president, Rear Admiral Isaac Kidd, said that it would take six months to conduct properly. The inquiry's terms of reference were limited to whether any shortcomings on the part of the Liberty's crew had contributed to the injuries and deaths that resulted from the attack. According to the Navy Court of Inquiry's record of proceedings, four days were spent hearing testimony: two days for fourteen survivors of the attack and several U.S. Navy expert witnesses, and two partial days for two expert U.S. Navy witnesses. No testimony was heard from Israeli personnel involved.\n\nThe National Archives in College Park, Maryland includes in its files on casualties from the \"Liberty\" copies of the original telegrams the Navy sent out to family members. The telegrams called the attack accidental. The telegrams were sent out June 9, the day before the Navy Court of Inquiry convened.\n\nTwo subsequent Israeli inquiry reports and a historical report concluded the attack was conducted because \"Liberty\" was confused with an Egyptian vessel and because of failures in communications between Israel and the U.S. The three Israeli reports were:\n\nIn the historical report, it was acknowledged that IDF naval headquarters knew at least three hours before the attack that the ship was \"an electromagnetic audio-surveillance ship of the U.S. Navy\" but concluded that this information had simply \"gotten lost, never passed along to the ground controllers who directed the air attack nor to the crews of the three Israeli torpedo boats.\"\n\nThe Israeli government said that three crucial errors were made: the refreshing of the status board (removing the ship's classification as American, so that the later shift did not see it identified), the erroneous identification of the ship as an Egyptian vessel, and the lack of notification from the returning aircraft informing Israeli headquarters of markings on the front of the hull (markings that would not be found on an Egyptian ship). As a common root of these problems, Israel blamed the combination of alarm and fatigue experienced by the Israeli forces at that point of the war when pilots were severely overworked.\n\nAfter conducting his own fact-finding inquiry and reviewing evidence, Judge Yerushalmi's decision was: \"I have not discovered any deviation from the standard of reasonable conduct which would justify committal of anyone for trial.\" In other words, he found no negligence by any IDF member associated with the attack.\n\nSome intelligence and military officials dispute Israel's explanation.\n\nDean Rusk, U.S. Secretary of State at the time of the incident, wrote:\n\nRetired naval Lieutenant Commander James Ennes, a junior officer (and off-going Officer of the Deck) on \"Liberty\"s bridge at the time of the attack, authored a book titled \"Assault on the Liberty\" describing the incident during the Six-Day War in June 1967 and saying, among other things, that the attack was deliberate. Ennes and Joe Meadors, also survivors of the attack, run a website about the incident. Meadors states that the classification of the attack as deliberate is the official policy of the USS \"Liberty\" Veterans Association, to which survivors and other former crew members belong. Other survivors run several additional websites. Citing Ennes's book, Lenczowski notes: \"Liberty\"s personnel received firm orders not to say anything to anybody about the attack, and the naval inquiry was conducted in such a way as to earn it the name of \"coverup\".\n\nIn 2002, Captain Ward Boston, JAGC, U.S. Navy, senior counsel for the Court of Inquiry, said that the Court of Inquiry's findings were intended to cover up what was a deliberate attack by Israel on a ship that the Israelis knew to be American. In 2004, in response to the publication of A. Jay Cristol's book \"The Liberty Incident\", which Boston said was an \"insidious attempt to whitewash the facts\", Boston prepared and signed an affidavit in which he said that Admiral Kidd had told him that the government ordered Kidd to falsely report that the attack was a mistake, and that Boston and Kidd both believed the attack was deliberate. On the issue Boston wrote, in part:\n\nCristol wrote about Boston's professional qualifications and integrity, on page 149 of his book:\n\nCristol said he believes that Boston is not telling the truth about Kidd's views and any pressure from the U.S. government. Cristol, who also served as an officer of the U.S. Navy's Judge Advocate General, suggests that Boston was responsible in part for the original conclusions of the Court of Inquiry and, that by later declaring that they were false, Boston has admitted to \"lying under oath\". Cristol also notes that Boston's statements about pressure on Kidd were hearsay, and that Kidd was not alive to confirm or deny them. He also notes that Boston did not maintain, prior to his affidavit and comments related to it, that Kidd spoke of such instructions to Boston or to others. Finally, Cristol provides a handwritten 1991 letter from Admiral Kidd that, according to Cristol, \"suggest that Ward Boston has either a faulty memory or a vivid imagination\".\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League supports Cristol's opinion:\nAccording to James Ennes, however, Admiral Kidd urged Ennes and his group to keep pressing for an open congressional probe.\n\nThe following arguments, found in official reports or other sources, were published to support that the attack was due to mistaken identity:\n\nSeveral books and the BBC documentary \"USS \"Liberty\": Dead in the Water\" argued that \"Liberty\" was attacked in order to prevent the U.S. from knowing about the forthcoming attack in the Golan Heights, which would violate a cease-fire to which Israel's government had agreed. However, Syria did not accept the cease fire until 9 June, after the attack on \"Liberty.\" Russian author Joseph Daichman, in his book \"History of the Mossad\", states Israel was justified in attacking the \"Liberty\". Israel knew that American radio signals were intercepted by the Soviet Union and that the Soviets would certainly inform Egypt of the fact that, by moving troops to the Golan Heights, Israel had left the Egyptian border undefended.\n\nLenczowski notes that while the Israeli decision to \"attack and destroy\" the ship \"may appear puzzling\", the explanation seems to be found in \"Liberty\"s nature and its task to monitor communications on both sides in the war zone. He writes, \"Israel clearly did not want the U.S. government to know too much about its dispositions for attacking Syria, initially planned for 8 June, but postponed for 24 hours. It should be pointed out that the attack on \"Liberty\" occurred on 8 June, whereas on 9 June at 3 am, Syria announced its acceptance of the cease-fire. Despite this, at 7 am, that is, four hours later, Israel's minister of defense, Moshe Dayan, \"gave the order to go into action against Syria\". He further writes that timely knowledge of this decision and preparatory moves toward it \"might have frustrated Israeli designs for the conquest of Syria's Golan Heights\" and, in the sense of Ennes's accusations, provides \"a plausible thesis that Israel deliberately decided to incapacitate the signals-collecting American ship and leave no one alive to tell the story of the attack.\"\n\nU.S. Ambassador to Israel, Barbour, had reported on the day of the \"Liberty\" attack that he \"would not be surprised\" by an Israeli attack on Syria, and the IDF Intelligence chief told a White House aide then in Israel that \"there still remained the Syria problem and perhaps it would be necessary to give Syria a blow.\"\n\nThe 1981 book \"Weapons\" by Russell Warren Howe says that \"Liberty\" was accompanied by the Polaris ballistic missile-armed \"Lafayette\"-class submarine , which filmed the entire episode through its periscope but was unable to provide assistance. According to Howe: \"Two hundred feet below the ship, on a parallel course, was its 'shadow'—the Polaris strategic submarine \"Andrew Jackson\", whose job was to take out all the Israeli long-range missile sites in the Negev if Tel Aviv decided to attack Cairo, Damascus or Baghdad. This was in order that Moscow would not have to perform this task itself and thus trigger World War Three.\"\n\nJames Bamford, a former ABC News producer, in his 2001 book \"Body of Secrets\", says Israel deliberately attacked \"Liberty\" to prevent the discovery of what he described as war crimes, including the killing of Egyptian prisoners of war by the IDF that he alleges was taking place around the same time in the nearby town of El-Arish. However, according to CAMERA, his claim that 400 were executed has been cast into doubt since reporters present in the town claimed that there had in fact been a large battle and this was the main cause of casualties. Bamford also claimed that eyewitness Gabi Bron had claimed he saw 150 people executed by Israeli troops at El-Arish. However, Gabi Bron claimed to have only seen 5 people executed by Israeli troops.\n\nThe press release for the BBC documentary film \"Dead in the Water\" states that new recorded and other evidence suggests the attack was a \"daring ploy by Israel to fake an Egyptian attack\" to give America a reason to enter the war against Egypt. Convinced that the attack was real, President of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson launched allegedly nuclear-armed aircraft targeted against Cairo from a U.S. aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean. The aircraft were recalled only just in time, when it was clear the \"Liberty\" had not sunk and that Israel had carried out the attack. An information source for the aircraft being nuclear-armed, James Ennes, later stated:\n\nThe video also provides hearsay evidence of a covert alliance of U.S. and Israel intelligence agencies.\n\nAdmiral Thomas H. Moorer, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a critic of the official United States Government version of events, chaired a non-governmental investigation into the attack on the \"Liberty\" in 2003. The committee, which included former U.S. ambassador to Saudi Arabia James E. Akins, held Israel to be culpable and suggested several theories for Israel's possible motives, including the desire to blame Egypt and bring the U.S. into the Six-Day War.\n\nAccording to John Loftus and Mark Aarons in their book, \"The Secret War Against the Jews\", \"Liberty\" was attacked because the Israelis knew that the ship's mission was to monitor radio signals from Israeli troops and pass troop movement information to the Egyptians.\n\nWithin an hour of learning that the \"Liberty\" had been torpedoed, the director of the U.S. National Security Agency, LTG Marshall S. Carter, sent a message to all intercept sites requesting a special search of all communications that might reflect the attack or reaction. No communications were available. However, one of the airborne platforms, a U.S. Navy EC-121 aircraft that flew near the attacks from 2:30 pm to 3:27 pm, Sinai time (1230 to 1327 Z), had collected voice conversations between two Israeli helicopter pilots and the control tower at Hatzor Airfield following the attack on the \"Liberty\".\n\nOn 2 July 2003, the NSA released copies of the recordings made by the EC-121 and the resultant translations and summaries. These revelations were elicited as part of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by Florida bankruptcy judge and retired naval aviator Jay Cristol. Two linguists who were aboard the EC-121 when the recordings were made, however, said separately that at least two additional tapes were made that have been excluded from the NSA releases up to and including a 8 June 2007 release.\n\nEnglish transcripts of the released tapes indicate that Israel still spoke of hitting an Egyptian supply ship even after the attack had stopped. After the attack, the rescue helicopters are heard relaying several urgent requests that the rescuers ask the first survivor pulled out of the water what his nationality is, and discussing whether the survivors from the attacked ship will speak Arabic.\n\nA summary report of the NSA-translated tapes indicates that at 1234Z Hatzor air control began directing two Israeli Air Force helicopters to an Egyptian warship, to rescue its crew: \"This ship has now been identified as Egyptian.\" The helicopters arrived near the ship at about 1303Z: \"I see a big vessel, near it are three small vessels ... \" At 1308Z, Hatzor air control indicated concern about the nationality of the ship's crew: \"The first matter to clarify is to find out what their nationality is.\" At 1310Z, one of the helicopter pilots asked the nearby torpedo boats' Division Commander about the meaning of the ship's hull number: \"GTR5 is written on it. Does this mean something?\" The response was: \"Negative, it doesn't mean anything.\" At 1312Z, one of the helicopter pilots was asked by air control: \"Did you clearly identify an American flag?\" No answer appears in the transcript, but the air controller then says: \"We request that you make another pass and check once more if this is really an American flag.\" Again, no response appears in the transcript. At about 1314Z, the helicopters were directed to return home.\n\nThe NSA reported that there had been no radio intercepts of the attack made by the \"Liberty\" herself, nor had there been any radio intercepts made by the U.S. submarine .\n\nOn 10 October 2003, \"The Jerusalem Post\" ran an interview with Yiftah Spector, one of the pilots who participated in the attack, and thought to be the lead pilot of the first wave of aircraft. Spector said the ship was assumed to be Egyptian, stating that: \"I circled it twice and it did not fire on me. My assumption was that it was likely to open fire at me and nevertheless I slowed down and I looked and there was positively no flag.\" The interview also contains the transcripts of the Israeli communications about the \"Liberty\". The journalist who transcribed the tapes for that article, Arieh O'Sullivan, later confirmed that \"the Israeli Air Force tapes he listened to contained blank spaces.\"\n\nThe \"Liberty\"s survivors contradict Spector. According to subsequently declassified NSA documents: \"Every official interview of numerous \"Liberty\" crewmen gave consistent evidence that indeed the \"Liberty\" was flying an American flag—and, further, the weather conditions were ideal to ensure its easy observance and identification.\"\n\nOn 8 June 2005, the USS \"Liberty\" Veterans Association filed a \"Report of War Crimes Committed Against the U.S. Military, June 8, 1967\" with the Department of Defense (DoD). They say Department of Defense Directive 2311.01E requires the Department of Defense to conduct a thorough investigation of the allegations contained in their report. DoD has responded that a new investigation will not be conducted since a Navy Court of Inquiry already investigated the facts and circumstances surrounding the attack.\n\nAs of 2006, the NSA has yet to declassify \"boxes and boxes\" of \"Liberty\" documents. Numerous requests under both declassification directives and the Freedom of Information Act are pending in various agencies including the NSA, Central Intelligence Agency, and Defense Intelligence Agency. \"On 8 June 2007, the National Security Agency released hundreds of additional declassified documents\non the Israeli attack on the USS \"Liberty\", a communications interception vessel, on 8 June 1967.\"\n\nOn 2 October 2007, \"The Chicago Tribune\" published a special report into the attack, containing numerous previously unreported quotes from former military personnel with first-hand knowledge of the incident. Many of these quotes directly contradict the NSA's position that it never intercepted the communications of the attacking Israeli pilots, saying that not only did transcripts of those communications exist, but also that it showed the Israelis knew they were attacking an American naval vessel.\n\nTwo diplomatic cables written by Avraham Harman, Israel's ambassador in Washington, to Abba Eban, Israel's minister of foreign affairs, have been declassified by Israel and obtained from the Israel State Archive. The first cable, sent five days after the attack, informs Eban that a U.S. informant told him (Harman) that there was \"clear proof that from a certain stage the pilot discovered the identity of the ship and continued the attack anyway.\" The second cable, sent three days later, added that the White House is \"very angry\" because \"the Americans probably have findings showing that our pilots indeed knew that the ship was American.\"\n\nDocuments of the Israeli General Staff meetings, declassified in October 2008, show no discussion of a planned attack on an American ship.\n\nOn 30 October 2014, Al Jazeera English broadcast a documentary film containing recent first-hand accounts by several survivors of the incident. The documentary argues that Israel knew the ship was American, and planned to blame its sinking on Egypt in order to draw the US into the war on the Israeli side.\n\nMany of the events surrounding the attack are the subject of controversy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19536547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19536547", "title": "X (demoparty)", "text": "X (demoparty)\n\nX is a Dutch demoscene party which started in 1995 in Utrecht, The Netherlands organized by Success & The Ruling Company, Xenon and Silicon Ltd.\n\nX is the successor of the Silicon Ltd. Winter and Summer parties which were held between 1990 and 1992. With about 250 visitors, it is the world's biggest Commodore 64 demoscene-party, attracting demosceners from not only The Netherlands, but also from other European countries (e.g. Sweden, Finland, Poland, Germany), or even from overseas (for example Australia, United States).\n\nThe concept of the X parties was born somewhere in 1995 when the members of the Commodore 64 demogroup Silicon Ltd. started the PC demogroup SuccesS.\nThe plan was to organize a demoparty for the Commodore 64 and the PC demoscene.\nThe party place was decided to be Buurthuis Einsteindreef in the city of Utrecht, The Netherlands; the same place where the Silicon Ltd. parties were held in the past.\n\nThe first two parties were held in Buurthuis Einsteindreef which were sponsored by soundcard developer Gravis. In 1996 it was clear the location was too small to hold the number of visitors and their hardware.\nIn 1997 the X organizers teamed up with the Dutch PC demogroup Nostalgia who had connections with the Technical University of Eindhoven, hence the next party baptised as X 97 Takeover which took place in the auditorium of the Technical University Eindhoven.\nDue to quarrels between the party organizers, this was the first and only party organized by SuccesS and Nostalgia.\n\nThe group SuccesS retired from the demoscene in 1998, which caused their Commodore 64 counterparts in Success & The Ruling Company to carry on with the X parties but now as a Commodore 64 only party.\nAlso the party location changed. Since 1998 the X party is held at Kampeerboerderij De Haverkamp in Ruurlo, The Netherlands.\n\nIn the year of 2000 the Dutch demogroup Xenon was added as organizing group and in 2006 Silicon Ltd. was added too after more than 10 years of scene absence.\n\nIn 2010 the party was held in a new and bigger location in Someren. The Demo competition in 2010 were won by Offence, a Norwegian demo-group returning to the 8-bit platform after 19 years of no demo creation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419093", "title": "Zeitgeist", "text": "Zeitgeist\n\nThe Zeitgeist (, German pronunciation ) is a concept from 18th- to 19th-century German philosophy, translated as \"spirit of the age\" or \"spirit of the times\". It refers to an invisible agent or force dominating the characteristics of a given epoch in world history.\n\nThe term is now mostly associated with Hegel, contrasting with Hegel's use of \"Volksgeist\" \"national spirit\" and \"Weltgeist\" \"world-spirit\", \nbut its coinage and popularization precedes Hegel, and is mostly due to Herder and Goethe. Other philosophers who were associated with such ideas include Spencer and Voltaire. \n\nContemporary use of the term may, more pragmatically, refer to a schema of fashions or fads which prescribes what is considered to be acceptable or tasteful for an era, e.g. in the field of architecture.\n\nHegel in \"Phenomenology of the Spirit\" (1807) uses both \"Weltgeist\" and \"Volksgeist\" but prefers the phrase \"Geist der Zeiten\" \"spirit of the times\" over the compound \"Zeitgeist\".\n\nThe Hegelian concept does not necessarily contrast with the Great Man theory as by Thomas Carlyle, which sees history as the result of the actions of heroes and geniuses, as Hegel perceived such \"great men\", specifically Napoleon, as the \"embodiment of the world-spirit\" (\"Die Weltseele zu Pferde\" \"the world-soul on horseback\")\n\nHegel believed that art reflected, by its very nature, the culture of the time in which it is created. Culture and art are inextricable because an individual artist is a product of his or her time and therefore brings that culture to any given work of art. Furthermore, he believed that in the modern world it was impossible to produce classical art, which he believed represented a \"free and ethical culture\", which depended more on the philosophy of art and theory of art, rather than a reflection of the social construct, or \"Zeitgeist\" in which a given artist lives.\n\nA \"zeitgeist theory of leadership\" has been contrasted with Thomas Carlyle’s great man theory by Forsyth (2009). In his theory, Carlyle stresses that leaders do not become leaders by fate or accident. Instead, these individuals possess characteristics of great leaders and these characteristics allow them to obtain positions of power.\n\nAccording to Forsyth, Leo Tolstoy disagreed with Carlyle’s perspective, \ninstead believing that leadership, like other things, was a product of the \"zeitgeist\", the social circumstances at the time. \n\nGreat man theory and zeitgeist theory can be included in two main areas of thought in psychology. For instance, great man theory is very similar to the trait approach. Trait researchers are interested in identifying the various personality traits that underline human behaviors such as conformity, leadership or other social behaviors. Thus, they agree that leadership is primarily a quality of an individual and that some people are pre-dispositioned to be a leader whereas others are born to follow these leaders. In contrast, situationist researchers believe that social behavior is a product of society. That is, social influence is what determines human behaviors. Therefore, situationism is of the same opinion as zeitgeist theory—leaders are created from the social environment and are molded from the situation. The concept of zeitgeist also relates to the sociological tradition that stems from Émile Durkheim and recently developed into social capital theory as exemplified by the work of Patrick Hunout.\n\nThese two perspectives have been combined to create what is known as the \"interactional\" approach to leadership. This approach asserts that leadership is developed through the mixing of personality traits and the situation. Further, this approach was expressed by social psychologist, Kurt Lewin, by the equation B = f(P, E) where behavior (B) is a function (f) of the person (P) and the environment (E).\n\nExecutives, venture capitalists, journalists and authors have argued that the idea of a zeitgeist is useful in understanding the emergence of industries, simultaneous invention and evaluating the relative value of innovations. Malcolm Gladwell argued in his book \"Outliers\" that entrepreneurs who succeeded often share similar characteristics—early personal or significant exposure to knowledge and skills in the early stages of a nascent industry. He proposed that the timing of involvement in an industry and often in sports as well affected the probability of success. In Silicon Valley, a number of people (Peter Thiel, Alistair Davidson, Mac Levchin, Nicholas G. Carr, Vinod Khosla) have argued that much innovation has been shaped by easy access to the Internet, open source software, component technologies for both hardware and software (e.g., software libraries, software as a service), and the ability to reach narrow markets across a global market. Peter Thiel has commented: \"There is so much incrementalism now.\"\n\nIn a zeitgeist market, the number of new entrants is high, differentiation in high value products (the strongest predictor of new product success) is more difficult to achieve, and business models emphasizing service and solution over product and process will enhance success. Examples include innovation in product experience, legal rights and bundling, privacy rights, and agency (where businesses act on behalf of customers).\n\n\"Zeitgeist\" in the sense intellectual or aesthetic fashion or fad:\n\n\n\n\n"}
