{"id": "48806162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48806162", "title": "$2 billion arms deal", "text": "$2 billion arms deal\n\nThe $2 billion arms deal is an arms procurement deal in Nigeria that resulted in the embezzlement of $2 billion through the office of the National Security Adviser under the leadership of Colonel Sambo Dasuki, the former National Security Adviser. The illegal deal was revealed following an interim report of the presidential investigations committee on arms procurement under the Goodluck Jonathan administration. The committee report showed an extra-budgetary spending to the tune of N643.8 billion and an additional spending of about $2.2 billion in the foreign currency component under the Goodluck Jonathan administration.\n\nPreliminary investigation suggested that about $2 billion may have been disbursed for the procurement of arms to fight against Islamic insurgency in Nigeria. The investigative report indicated that a total sum of $2.2 billion was inexplicably disbursed into the office of the National Security Adviser in procurement of arms to fight against insurgency, but was not spent for that purpose. Several reports suggested that part of the disbursed fund was diverted for the sponsoring of the re-election of Goodluck Jonathan, the former President of Nigeria.\n\nInvestigations on this illegal deal led to the arrest of Shaibu Salisu, a former Director of Finance in the office of the National Security Adviser. He was arrested by the Department of State Security Services and following interrogations he claimed to have acted on Colonel Dasuki's order.\nColonel Dasuki was arrested on 1 December 2015 by the Department of State Security Services and transferred to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for further interrogation. In a written statement, he mentioned several notable Nigerians who were involved in the arms procurement deal. Chief Raymond Dokpesi, the chair emeritus of DAAR Communications Plc, was mentioned in connection with the deal alongside Attahiru Bafarawa, the former Governor of Sokoto State, and Bashir Yuguda, the former Minister of State for Finance.\n\nThe arms procurement investigative committee was inaugurated on 31 August 2015 by President Muhammadu Buhari to investigate the procurement of ammunition to fight against insurgency during the administration of Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. The interim report of the committee revealed several illicit and fraudulent financial transactions. The report revealed an extra-budgetary spending to the tune of N643.8 billion and inexplicable spending of about $2.2 billion in the foreign currency component under the Goodluck Jonathan administration. This amount excluded grants received by the state governments and funds received by the Directorate of State Services and the Nigerian Police Force.\nThe committee analyzed how funds were transferred to the office of the National Security Adviser and the Nigerian Armed Forces in local and foreign currencies.\nThe committee observed that about $2.2 billion was disbursed for the procurement of ammunition to tackle insurgency but regretted that despite this enormous financial transactions, little or nothing was spent for the procurement of the arms for which the fund was disbursed.\nThe committee discovered that out of the 513 contracts awarded at $8,356,525,184.32, ₦2,189,265,724,404.55 and £54,000.00, about 53 were failed contracts amounting to about $2,378,939,066.27 and ₦13,729,342,329.87 respectively.\nThe committee also noted that the amount of foreign currencies spent on failed contracts was more than twice the $1 billion loan approved by the National Assembly for borrowing from the World bank to fight insurgency.\nThe investigative committee also discovered a total transfer of ₦3.850 billion to a single company by Colonel Dansuki, the former National Security Adviser. These transactions were made with neither agreements nor fulfilment of tax obligations to the Federal Government of Nigeria.\n\nFurther investigation by the committee provided evidence that phantom and fictitious contracts to the tune of ₦2,219,188,609.50, $1,671,742,613.58 and £9,905,477.00 was awarded between March 2012 and March 2015 by Colonel Dasuki.\nIn addition, the funds disbursed for the purchase of 12 helicopters, 4 Alpha Jets, bombs and other ammunition were not utilized for those purposes. The committee also noted that Dansuki directed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to transfer a total sum of $132,050,486.97 dollars and £9,905,473.5 to the accounts of the Societe D'equipmente Internationaux in West Africa, the UK, and the US with no documentation.\n\nSubsequent to this investigative committee's interim report, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the arrest of Colonel Dasuki on alleged siphoning of billions of dollars allocated for the procurement of arms. He also ordered the arrest of all those indicted.\n\nSeveral notable Nigerians were involved in the arms procurement deals, including Chief Raymond Dopesi, the chair emeritus of DAAR Communications PLC, alongside Attahiru Bafarawa, the former Governor of Sokoto State and Bashir Yuguda, the former Minister of State for Finance.\nSambo Dasuki masterminded the arms procurement deal.\n\nOn 17 November 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered the arrest of Colonel Dasuki, the former National Security Adviser, on alleged siphoning of the arms procurement funds. Dasuki claimed that ordering his arrest by the President is illegal. He denied that he was invited by the investigation committee on issues related to arms procurement.\nAccording to \"Premium Times\", Dansuki said \"I have never been invited formally or informally to appear before the panel. I am therefore not only surprised but embarrassed by the seeming indictment by the panel purportedly operating from the office of the National Security Adviser that never contacted me\".\nPrior to ordering his arrest by the president for siphoning the arms procurement fund, on 19 July 2015, the operative of the Department of State Security Service stormed his residence at Abuja and confiscated his international passport. He was charged with unlawful possession of firearms and foreign currencies.\n\nOn 3 November 2015, Justice Adeniyi Ademola, the presiding Judge of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, ordered the DSS to release his passport to enable in travel for medical attention. Despite this ruling, the DSS prevented him from traveling abroad by putting him under a house arrest insisting that Dasuki have some questions to answer on the $2 billion arms procurement deal.\nOn 18 November 2015, a US-based newspaper, \"The Washington Times\", in a report entitled \"Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari Dupes the US\", criticized President Muhammadu Buhari for putting Dasuki house under siege and for declining the order of the court permitting Dasuki to travel for medical attention. The newspaper described Buhari's action as an attempt to destroy his political opponents like Dasuki with tyrannical methods.\nIn the same vein, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, a former Liaison Officer to President Shehu Shagari and a founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum, and Frederick Fasehun, a leader of the Oodua Peoples Congress, berated President Muhammadu Buhari for putting Dasuki's house under siege and for disobeying the court order. Both leaders described Buhari's action as \"deliberate neglect of the rule of law or re-introduction of subtle autocracy in the leadership of the country\". They described Buhari's anti-corruption war as \"selective\"\nYakassai said, \"Since President Buhari and the Attorney General have decided to disobey the court order which says that Col. Sambo Dasuki be allowed to travel abroad for medical attention, it means that Buhari is all out on a revenge mission.\"\nFredrick Fasheun said, \"Where a court order has been given and the President flouts the court order, how can you claim change in the democracy, except change from democracy to autocracy, as we are seeing now.\"\n\nOn 1 December 2015, Colonel Dasuki was arrested by the Department of State Security Services and transferred to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for further interrogation.\nPrior to Dasuki's arrest, Shaibu Salisu, a former Director of Finance in the office of the National Security Adviser, was arrested by the Department of the State Security Services and following interrogations he claimed to have acted on Colonel Dasuki's order which led to Dasuki's arrest. After Dasuki was transferred to the EFCC, he initially decided not to comment on the issue or write any statement, claiming that he had been subjected to media trial.\nThe EFCC operatives then issued Dasuki a copy of the statement made by Shaibu Salisu, a statement that seemed rather implicating. Dasuki was shocked by Salisu's confessional statement. According to \"The Nation\", Colonel Dasuki said, \"You mean Salisu wrote all these! You mean he said these! Give me a pen and paper.\" Dasuki gave a long list of people involved in the deal.\nHe mentioned Chief Raymond Dopesi, the chair emeritus of DAAR Communications Plc, alongside Attahiru Bafarawa, the former Governor of Sokoto State, and Bashir Yuguda, the former Minister of State for Finance.\n\nOn 1 December 2015, Chief Raymond Dopesi, the Chair Emeritus of Daar Communication PLC, was arrested at his residence in Abuja by the EFCC in connections with the arms procurement deal having been mentioned by Colonel Dasuki.\nPreliminary evidence showed that Chief Dopesi received ₦2.1 billion between October 2014 and March 2015 from the office of the National Security Adviser with no coherent reasons for the financial transaction. Chief Dopesi, said the ₦2.1 billion received from the Office of the National Security Adviser was payment for media and political campaign for the re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan.\nOn Tuesday, 8 December 2015, Chief Dokpesi was arraigned by the Federal Government of Nigeria before a federal high court sitting in Abuja on six count charges of money laundering and other financial crimes.\nThe prosecutor maintained that the transfer of a total sum of ₦2.1 billion between October 2014 and March 2015 from the office of the National Security Adviser breaches section 58 (4) (b) of the Public Procurement Act 2007 and punishable under Section 58 (6) and (7) of the same Act, as well as under Section 17 (b) of the EFCC Act, 2004.\n\nDokpesi plead not guilty of the charges and requested the court to grant him bail on liberal terms. The case was adjourned till 10 December 2015 to consider his bail request. The presiding judge, Justice Gabriel Kolawole, ordered the EFCC to detain him pending the determination of his bail application.\n\nOn 10 December 2015, Rotimi Jacob, counsel to the EFCC, argued that granting Dokpesi bail would truncate the trial application for bail. Having heard from the prosecutor and defence counsel, Justice Kolawole adjourned the hearing for the bail application till 14 December 2015. He slated 17 February, 18 February and 2 March, 3 March 2016 to commence the hearing on the six count charges slammed against him.\n\nOn 14 December 2015, Justice Gabriel Kolawole ruled that Chief Dokpesi should be granted a bail in the sum of ₦400 million with two surety in like sum. He said the first surety must be a retired or serving director in the civil service and the second surety must be a private investor with a track record of tax payment in the last 3 years. He maintain that Dokpesi should remain in Kuje Prison until the bail conditions are met. He also ordered the EFCC not to re-arrest him after the bail for interrogation for more than 8 hours and 30 minutes.\n\nPrior to the arms procurement saga, Chief Dokpesi and Africa Independent Television was accused of partisan for airing some controversial documentaries such as \"The Lion of Bourdillon\", which Chief Bola Tinubu considered defamatory. This documentary generated several controversies, leading to a ₦150 billion libel suit against AIT by Chief Bola Tinubu.\n\nOn 1 December 2015, Attahiru Bafarawa, the former Governor of Sokoto State, was arrested and detained by the EFCC in connection with the arms procurement deal having been mentioned by Colonel Dasuki. He was arrested alongside Dokpesi.\nPreliminary evidence showed that Attahiru Bafarawa received ₦4.6 billion from the office of the National Security Adviser with no clear basis for the financial transaction. In response to the allegation, Bafarawa said he received the money from the Office of the National Security Adviser for spiritual purpose.\n\nOn 8 December 2015, the family of Bafawara in a statement signed by the Media Aide to the former governor, Alhaji Yusuf Dingyadi advised the EFCC to charge Bafawara and his son to court if there are evidence against them rather than keeping them in their custody.\nAccording to \"Thisday\", the family of Bafawara said Today is one week since Bafarawa was detained by the EFCC. And today marks two weeks that his son Sagir Bafarawa has been in detention. Why are they being detained without charges? If the EFCC has any evidence that they have committed any crime it should charge them to court. We thought that the era of detaining people while searching for evidence was over. We call on the EFCC to release them forthwith if they have nothing against them.\n\nOn 30 November 2015, Ambassador Bashir Yuguda, a former Minister of State for Finance, was arrested and detained by the EFCC in connections with the arms procurement deal having been mentioned by Colonel Dasuki. He was arrested alongside Chief Raymond Dokpesi, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa and his son.\nPreliminary evidence showed that Ambassador Yuguda received ₦1.5 billion from the office of the National Security Adviser with no coherent basis for the financial transaction. The money was transferred into his account through an unknown company for inexplicable purpose. According to Premium Times, \"The funds were directly transferred to him from the NSA office and he has been unable to explain the rationale for the transfer. The transfers were made to his account between December 2014 and May 2015\".\nAdditional ₦1.275 billion was also transferred to his account during the campaign for the Nigerian general election, 2015\nAlso ₦775 million was transferred into his account from the office of the Accountant General of the Federation.\n\nOn 30 November 2015, Shaibu Salisu, a former Director of Finance in the office of the National Security Adviser, was arrested in connection with the arms procurement deal. Investigation reveal that Salisu operates a joint account with Sambo Dasuki. According to \"Thisday\", EFCC operatives said \"We just discovered a huge sum of money in foreign currencies in a joint account – being operated by the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki and a director in his office, one Shauibu Salisu. He is also being interrogated by EFCC operatives.\" Salisu's confessional statements led to Dasuki's arrest.\n\nInvestigation also revealed a payment of ₦650 million into the account Nduka Obaigbena, owner of Arise TV and Thisday publisher. He denied receiving any money from the Office of the National Security Adviser.\nOn 12 December 2015, the management of \"Thisday\" denied receiving money related to arms procurement from the former National Security Adviser. The management in its response to an invitation letter from the EFCC dated 8 November 2015, received in its Abuja office on 8 December 2015, said all funds received from the Office of the National Security Adviser , \"are payments for compensation to mitigate the dastardly Boko Haram twin bombings of the ThisDay Newspapers offices in Abuja and Kaduna on Thursday April 26, 2012\".\n\nOn Thursday 3 December 2015, Saliu Atawodi, an Air vice-marshal (rtd) and Chairman of the Presidential Implementation Committee on Marine Safety, was arrested by EFCC on alleged involvement in the arms procurement deal. He was accused of illegal diversion of ₦600 million meant for the procurement of military boats for use in fighting against insurgency. However, the Court of Appeal sitting in Abuja on Tuesday 6 June 2017, discharged and acquitted Atawodi. In a judgement delivered by Justice Tani Hassan-Yusuf, the Court dismissed the judgment of an Abuja High Court which earlier asked Atawodi to open his defense. \n\nOn 14 December 2015, the EFCC arraigned Colonel Dasuki, Bafarawa, Saliu Atawodi, Dokpesi, Yuguda, Salisu, Sagir Attahiru, Dahaltu Investment Limited, Aminu Baba-Kusa, former Executive Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, and his company Acacia Holding Limited and Reliance Referral Hospital Limited before Justice Hussein Baba Yusuf of Abuja High Court sitting at Maitama on alleged unlawful diversion of public funds.\n\nSeveral pieces of evidence established the fact that about $2 billions was transferred into the Office of the National Security Adviser.\n\"Premium Times\" published a letter sent to Goodluck Jonathan by Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala requesting the former President's approval of a transfer of about $300 million (£5.5 million) from money recovered from the late General Sani Abacha to the office of the National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, a few days before the presidential election held in April 2015.\nThe letter, dated 20 January 2015, was addressed to the former president following the 12 January 2015 request for funds by the office of the National Security Adviser under the leadership of Dasuki for the procurement of arms and intelligence equipment.\n\nThe letter reads Please find a request by the National Security Adviser (NSA) for the transfer of $300 million and £5.5 million of the recovered Abacha funds to an ONSA (Office of the National Security Adviser) operations account. The NSA has explained that this is to enable the purchase of ammunition, security, and other intelligence equipment for the security agencies in order to enable them fully confront the ongoing Boko Haram threat. His request is sequel to the meeting you chaired with the committee on the use of recovered funds where the decision was made that recovered Abacha funds would be split 50-50 between urgent security needs to confront Boko Haram and development need (including a portion for the Future Generations window of the Sovereign Wealth Fund). This letter is to seek your approval to borrow these funds, for now, to disburse to the NSA. These funds form part of the projected Federal Government Independent Revenue, to be appropriated, in the light and for accountability, given the peculiar nature of security and intelligence transactions, we would expect the NSA to account to Your Excellency for the utilisation of the funds. The transfer was approved by Goodluck Jonathan.\nIn a counter-claim, while speaking in Washington DC on \"Presidential elections and democratic consolidation in Africa: Case studies on Nigeria and Tanzania,\" a forum co-hosted by the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Goodluck Jonathan refuted the allegations by the EFCC and its operative that he awarded a contract potentially worth $2 billion for arms procurement during his administration.\nHe said \"Where did the money come from? I did not award any $2 billion contract for procurement of weapons.\"\n\nSeveral confessional statements help in the investigation of the arms procurement deal. Salisu, who operated a joint bank account with Dasuki, claimed to have withdrawn $47 million from the Central Bank of Nigeria; the money was delivered in 11 briefcases to Dasuki at his residence.\n\nSalisu's statement reads “I could remember on the 20/11/2014, I was directed by the NSA, M.S. Dasuki to go to the CBN and collect the sum of $47m in cash and the balance in Euro and the directive was obeyed and the monies were delivered to the NSA in about 11 suit cases. I acknowledged the receipt of the money from the CBN which was handed over to M.S. Dasuki. I did not benefit even one cent. The request for the funds was tag(sic) Special Services signed by the NSA, M.S. Dasuki, addressed to the Governor of CBN.\nI did not know the source of the money into our CBN Account. The foreign currencies that I collected from the CBN were delivered to the NSA in his house, No. 13, John Kadiya Street, Asokoro.\"\n\nAmbassador Yuguda claimed to have delivered a sum of N600 million to six chairmen of the National Working Committee, the Contact and Mobilisation Committee of the People's Democratic Party for the 2015 general election. According to him, the beneficiaries includes Yerima Abdullahi, Chief Bode George, Peter Odili, Jim Nwobodo, Attahiru Bafarawa and Ahmadu Ali.\nHe transferred N300 million to BAM Properties, whose account details were sent to him by Bello Haliru, a former National Chairman of the People's Democratic Party. He also claimed to have sent N200 million to Bello Sarkin Yaki, the Governorship aspirant in Kebbi State. According to him, Mahmud Shinkafi, the former Governor of Zamfara State, received ₦100 million.\nBashir's confessional statement reads For the cash disbursement of ₦600million, it was meant for the six zonal chairmen for Contact and Mobilisation Committees for Election of 2015. The chairmen are Bode George, Amb. Yerima Abdullahi; Peter Odili; Attahiru Bafarawa; Jim Nwobodo; Ahmadu Ali. The sum of ₦100million was given to each chairman. I gave the money in company of Prof. Alkali, who was Political Adviser to former president. The zonal chairmen are for the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). I also instructed Jabbama Limited to transfer the sum of N100m to Dalhatu Limited on the request of Attahiru Bafarawa. I also remember that Bello Sarkin Yaki was among the people that the then NSA instructed that I send the sum of N200million to. He was the PDP gubernatorial candidate in Kebbi State. I knew the chairman of Stallion Limited whose second name I cannot remember. Between December 2014 to June 2015, on the instruction of the then NSA, I introduced Jabbama Limited to a staff of the company on the instruction of the chairman. When the account was in credit, disbursement was made from time to time on the instruction of the then NSA. Part in foreign exchange or transfers. I wish to add that sometime in February 2015, I instructed Jabbama to transfer the sum of N300m to BAM Properties. The account was given to me by Bello Haliru as one of the people the former NSA requested me to give money. I also remember that Mahmud Aliyu Shinkafi was sent the sum of N100million on the instruction of the then NSA. Further to my statement of 30th November, 2015, I have brought the sum of $829,800(equivalent to N200m) and N600m was given to me to distribute to the six PDP Zonal Committee chairmen. I don’t know who are the directors of Dalhatu Investment Limited but funds were transferred to the company’s account on the instruction of Dalhatu Bafarawa for the total amount of N1.5billion received from the then NSA by Jabbama Limited. I shall endeavour to recover the sum of N600million given to the six zonal PDP committee chairmen, while I appeal to the commission to use their machineries to trace the remaining balance of the money transferred to various accounts\nIn a counter-claim, Chief Bode George denied the allegations of receiving a total sum of ₦100 million from Yuguda for the 2015 general election. He described the claim by Yuguda as \"mischievous and deliberately fraudulent.\"\nBode's statement reads “My attention has been drawn to another mischievous and deliberately fraudulent claim that I collected N100 million from Bashir Yuguda, the former Minister of State for Finance. This is another blatant falsehood, stripped of any iota of truth. This is yet again a depraved continuation of lynch mob journalism orchestrated by an online newspaper. The salient fact is that very early this year, long before the election period, the party set up Contact and Mobilization Committee for each zone to reconcile various factions and ensure a firm unity of purpose within the zones before the election. I was elected as the Chairman for the South-West zone. The committee which was made up of 18 senior members of the party with distinguished history of honour and exemplary leadership, met at least 10 times in my office in Lagos. These people travelled all the way from every corner of the South-West, with three members representing each state. All of them are very much alive to testify to my assertions. Sometime in the middle of these deliberations, Yuguda came to me and said the party was reimbursing the 18 elders of the committee for their transportation, accommodation and feeding allowance for the work that was done. The committee later submitted the report of its deliberations to the party and then wound up. For all these efforts Yuguda gave the committee only $30,000. That was less than N6 million at that time. Yuguda can never claim that he gave the Committee N100 million. That is the figment of the imagination of rascally scribblers purporting to be journalists. Again, facts are sacred.”\n"}
{"id": "288238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288238", "title": "27th G8 summit", "text": "27th G8 summit\n\nThe 27th G8 summit was held in Genoa, Italy, on July 21–22, 2001 and is remembered as the peak of the worldwide antiglobalization movement as well as for human rights crimes against demonstrators.\n\nThe Group of Seven (G7) was an unofficial forum which brought together the heads of the richest industrialized countries: France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada starting in 1976. The G8, meeting for the first time in 1997, was formed with the addition of Russia. In addition, the President of the European Commission has been formally included in summits since 1981. The summits were not meant to be linked formally with wider international institutions; and in fact, a mild rebellion against the stiff formality of other international meetings was a part of the genesis of cooperation between France's President Giscard d'Estaing and West Germany's Chancellor Helmut Schmidt as they conceived the initial summit of the Group of Six (G6) in 1975.\n\nThe G8 summits during the 21st-century have inspired widespread debates, protests and demonstrations; and the two- or three-day event becomes more than the sum of its parts, elevating the participants, the issues and the venue as focal points for activist pressure.\n\nThe G8 is an unofficial annual forum for the leaders of Canada, the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nThe 27th G8 summit was the first summit for Japanese Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi and U.S. President George W. Bush.\n\nThese summit participants are the current \"core members\" of the international forum:\n\nTraditionally, the host country of the G8 summit sets the agenda for negotiations, which take place primarily amongst multi-national civil servants in the weeks before the summit itself, leading to a joint declaration which all countries can agree to sign.\n\nThe summit was intended as a venue for resolving differences among its members. As a practical matter, the summit was also conceived as an opportunity for its members to give each other mutual encouragement in the face of difficult economic decisions.\n\nThe overall theme of the summit was ways to reduce poverty. Topics discussed at the meeting included an evaluation of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative which involved debt forgiveness to Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, the Global Health Fund, the global digital divide, the environment and food security. Although the main summit was from July 20 to the 22nd, the summit was preceded by a meeting of the G8 foreign ministers on the 18th and 19th.\n\nThe summit was overshadowed by riots in the city after a crackdown by police targeting anti-globalisation groups and the death of a 23-year-old Carlo Giuliani, leading some to talk of a deliberately followed strategy of tension.\n\nBefore the summit, significant controversies and ridicule among local people and media focused on the security plans (such as fences going through streets and inside houses) and image provisions (such as the prohibition to dry up the laundry).\n\nThe Genoa Group of Eight Summit protest, from July 18 to July 22, 2001, was a dramatic protest, drawing an estimated 200,000 demonstrators. Dozens were hospitalized following clashes with police and night raids by security forces on two schools housing activists and independent journalists. People taken into custody after the raids have alleged severe abuse at the hands of police.\n\nDemonstrators accused the police of brutality and denying them their right to non-violent protest. They believe that G8 summits are non-legitimate attempts by eight of the world's most powerful governments to set the rules for the planet at large. Police and many politicians argued that attempting to blockade a meeting is in itself a violent event and an attempt to impede the workings of democratically elected governments. .\n\nThe G8 meeting was held inside a \"Red Zone\" in the center of town that had been declared off-limits for non-residents and surrounded by a barricade, leaving protesters no chance to communicate with summit delegates. Fears of a terrorist attack at the time had also led to an air exclusion zone around the city, as well as the stationing of anti-aircraft missiles. Only one activist, Valérie Vie, secretary of a French branch of ATTAC, managed to publicly breach the Red Zone barrier, but was immediately arrested by police agents. There were also several border riots ahead of the summit, as police attempted to prevent suspected activists from entering Italy. The Italian government suspended freedom of movement entitled by the Schengen treaty for the duration of the G8 summit, in order to monitor the movement of the many protesters arriving from across the European Union.\n\nMany demonstrators were injured and dozens more arrested over the course of the event. Most of those 329 arrested were charged with criminal conspiracy to commit destruction; but they were in most part released shortly thereafter because judges declared the charges invalid. Police continued to raid social centers, media centers, union buildings and legal offices across Italy after the summit as part of ongoing investigations. Over 400 protesters and about 100 among security forces were injured during the clashes.\n\nOn July 20, a 23-year-old activist Carlo Giuliani of Genoa, was shot dead by Mario Placanica, a Carabiniere, during clashes with police. Images show Giuliani throwing a fire extinguisher at the carabiniere's vehicle before he was shot and then run over twice by the Land Rover. Placanica was acquitted from any wrongdoing, as judges determined he fired in self-defence and to the sky but a flying stone deflected the bullet and killed Giuliani.\n\nActivist Susanne Bendotti was struck by a vehicle and killed while attempting to cross the French-Italian border at Ventimiglia to get to the Genoa demonstration.\n\nIn December 2007, 25 demonstrators were condemned for property damage and looting.\nNumerous police officers and local and national officials have been ordered to stand trial in connection with the event. In one trial, 28 police officials are standing trial on charges related to the two night raids, charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, use of excessive force and planting evidence. In other proceedings, 45 state officials, including prison guards, police and medics, are being tried for abusing detainees in their custody at Bolzaneto who were arrested during the raid. Detainees reported being spat at, verbally and physically humiliated, and threatened with rape.\n\nPolice conducted nighttime raids upon centers housing protesters and campsites, most notably the attacks on the Diaz-Pascoli and Diaz-Pertini schools shortly after midnight on July 21. These were being used as sleeping quarters, and had also been set up as centers for those providing media, medical, and legal support work. Police baton attacks left three activists, including British journalist Mark Covell, in comas. At least one person has suffered brain damage, while another had both jaws and fourteen teeth broken. In total, over 60 were severely injured and a parliamentary inquiry was launched. It concluded no wrongdoing on the part of police.\n\nNinety-three people were arrested during the raids. In May, 2003, Judge Anna Ivaldi concluded that they had put up no resistance whatsoever to the police and all charges were dropped against them. During the inquiry, Pietro Troiani, the deputy police chief in Genoa, admitted to being involved in the planting of Molotov cocktails in order to justify the Diaz School raids, as well as faking the stabbing of a police officer to frame activists.\n\nIn 2005, twenty-nine police officers were indicted for grievous bodily harm, planting evidence and wrongful arrest during a night-time raid on the Diaz School. The Molotov cocktails were reported in January 2007, during the trial of the policemen, to have disappeared.\n\nIn 2007, Romano Prodi's left-wing \"L'Unione\" coalition voted to create a Parliamentary Commission on the Genoa events but this commission was refused by Senate's vote.\n\nOn July 14, 13 Italian Carabineri, GOMPI Mobile and prison police were convicted for abuse of authority, abuse of office and uniform. Other charges include abuse and negligence. Two medical staff were also convicted. None will go to jail due to statute of limitations.\n\nOn November 13, an Italian court cleared 16 of the most senior police officers of any wrongdoing in the incidents of the 2001 G8 summit. Thirteen police officers were convicted of their various crimes during the Diaz raid including Vincenzo Canterini (four years), the commander of the 7th Mobile unit. None will go to jail due to statute of limitations.\n\nHowever, on appeal in 2010, many of the findings were overturned, and several more senior police officers received prison sentences and disqualifications from public office. Twenty-five of the 27 original defendants were finally convicted. In statements during the trial, the prosecution cited \"the terrible injuries inflicted on defenceless people, the premeditation, the covered faces, the falsification of statements by the 93 anti-globalisation protesters, the lies about their alleged resistance [to arrest].\"\n\nThe Italian government was later brought to trial in the European Court of Human Rights. In April 2017 the case for Bolzaneto station was dismissed as Italy and victims made an off-court refunding deal with the Italian government paying €45,000 per victim and acknowledging the extreme use of violence. On October 2017, the European Court issued two sentences against Italy, the first time declaring that torture was clearly used against the contestants on the Diaz school case, and the second time inflicting a penal fee to Italy for lacking a Torture Law in its penal code, meaning that the Genoa events could not be properly sentenced at the time as unmotivated violence leading to torture.\n\n\nFor some, the G8 summit became a profit-generating event; as for example, the official \"G8 Summit\" magazines which have been published under the auspices of the host nations for distribution to all attendees since 1998. Capitalizing on the publicity which attended the Genoa summit, the Commercial Office of the Italian embassies and the consulates joined others in promoting investment in southern Italy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34810484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34810484", "title": "Anarchism and education", "text": "Anarchism and education\n\nAnarchism has had a special interest on the issue of education from the works of William Godwin and Max Stirner onwards.\n\nA wide diversity of issues related to education have gained the attention of anarchist theorists and activists. They have included the role of education in social control and socialization, the rights and liberties of youth and children within educational contexts, the inequalities encouraged by current educational systems, the influence of state and religious ideologies in the education of people, the division between social and manual work and its relationship with education, sex education and art education.\n\nVarious alternatives to contemporary mainstream educational systems and their problems have been proposed by anarchists which have gone from alternative education systems and environments, self-education, advocacy of youth and children rights, and freethought activism.\n\nFor English enlightenment anarchist William Godwin education was \"the main means by which change would be achieved.\" Godwin saw that the main goal of education should be the promotion of happiness. For Godwin, education had to have \"A respect for the child’s autonomy which precluded any form of coercion\", \"A pedagogy that respected this and sought to build on the child’s own motivation and initiatives\" and \"A concern about the child’s capacity to resist an ideology transmitted through the school.\"\n\nIn his \"Political Justice\" he criticizes state sponsored schooling \"on account of its obvious alliance with national government\". For him the State \"will not fail to employ it to strengthen its hands, and perpetuate its institutions.\". He thought \"It is not true that our youth ought to be instructed to venerate the constitution, however excellent; they should be instructed to venerate truth; and the constitution only so far as it corresponded with their independent deductions of truth.\". A long work on the subject of education to consider is \"The Enquirer. Reflections On Education, Manners, And Literature. In A Series Of Essays.\"\n\nMax Stirner was a German philosopher linked mainly with the anarchist school of thought known as individualist anarchism who worked as a schoolteacher in a gymnasium for young girls. He examines the subject of education directly in his long essay \"The False Principle of our Education\". In it \"we discern his persistent pursuit of the goal of individual self-awareness and his insistence on the centering of everything around the individual personality\". As such Stirner \"in education, all of the given material has value only in so far as children learn to do something with it, to use it\". In that essay he deals with the debates between realist and humanistic educational commentators and sees that both \"are concerned with the learner as an object, someone to be acted upon rather than one encouraged to move toward subjective self-realization and liberation\" and sees that \"a knowledge which only burdens me as a belonging and a possession, instead of having gone along with me completely so that the free-moving ego, not encumbered by any dragging possessions, passes through the world with a fresh spirit, such a knowledge then, which has not become personal, furnishes a poor preparation for life\".\n\nHe concludes this essay by saying that \"the necessary decline of non-voluntary learning and rise of the self-assured will which perfects itself in the glorious sunlight of the free person may be expressed somewhat as follows: knowledge must die and rise again as will and create itself anew each day as a free person.\". Stirner thus saw education \"is to be life and there, as outside of it, the self-revelation of the individual is to be the task.\" For him \"pedagogy should not proceed any further towards civilizing, but toward the development of free men, sovereign characters\".\n\nJosiah Warren is widely regarded as the first American anarchist. \"Where utopian projectors starting with Plato entertained the idea of creating an ideal species through eugenics and education and a set of universally valid institutions inculcating shared identities, Warren wanted to dissolve such identities in a solution of individual self-sovereignty. His educational experiments, for example, possibly under the influence of the...Swiss educational theorist Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi (via Robert Owen), emphasized—as we would expect—the nurturing of the independence and the conscience of individual children, not the inculcation of pre-conceived values.\"\n\nOn \"Equal Opportunity in Education\" Russian anarchist Mikhail Bakunin denounced what he saw as the social inequalities caused by the current educational systems. He put this issue in this way \"will it be feasible for the working masses to know complete emancipation as long as the education available to those masses continues to be inferior to that bestowed upon the bourgeois, or, in more general terms, as long as there exists any class, be it numerous or otherwise, which, by virtue of birth, is entitled to a superior education and a more complete instruction? Does not the question answer itself?...\"\n\nHe also denounced that \"Consequently while some study others must labour so that they can produce what we need to live — not just producing for their own needs, but also for those men who devote themselves exclusively to intellectual pursuits. As a solution to this Bakunin proposed that \"Our answer to that is a simple one: everyone must work and everyone must receive education...for work's sake as much as for the sake of science, there must no longer be this division into workers and scholars and henceforth there must be only men. \"\nRussian anarcho-communist theorist Peter Kropotkin suggested in \"Brain Work and Manual Work\" that \"The masses of the workmen do not receive more scientific education than their grandfathers did; but they have been deprived of the education of even the small workshop, while their boys and girls are driven into a mine, or a factory, from the age of thirteen, and there they soon forget the little they may have learned at school. As to the scientists, they despise manual labour.\" So for Kropotkin \"We fully recognise the necessity of specialisation of knowledge, but we maintain that specialisation must follow general education, and that general education must be given in science and handicraft alike. To the division of society into brainworkers and manual workers we oppose the combination of both kinds of activities; and instead of `technical education,' which means the maintenance of the present division between brain work and manual work, we advocate the éducation intégrale, or complete education, which means the disappearance of that pernicious distinction.\"\n\nThe Russian christian anarchist and famous novelist Leo Tolstoy established a school for peasant children on his estate. Tolstoy returned to Yasnaya Polyana and founded thirteen schools for his serfs' children, based on the principles Tolstoy described in his 1862 essay \"The School at Yasnaya Polyana\". Tolstoy's educational experiments were short-lived due to harassment by the Tsarist secret police, but as a direct forerunner to A. S. Neill's Summerhill School, the school at Yasnaya Polyana can justifiably be claimed to be the first example of a coherent theory of democratic education.\n\nTolstoy differentiated between education and culture. He wrote that \"Education is the tendency of one man to make another just like himself... Education is culture under restraint, culture is free. [Education is] when the teaching is forced upon the pupil, and when then instruction is exclusive, that is when only those subjects are taught which the educator regards as necessary\". For him \"without compulsion, education was transformed into culture\".\n\nIn 1901, Catalan anarchist and free-thinker Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia established \"modern\" or progressive schools in Barcelona in defiance of an educational system controlled by the Catholic Church. The schools' stated goal was to \"educate the working class in a rational, secular and non-coercive setting\". Fiercely anti-clerical, Ferrer believed in \"freedom in education\", education free from the authority of church and state. Murray Bookchin wrote: \"This period [1890s] was the heyday of libertarian schools and pedagogical projects in all areas of the country where Anarchists exercised some degree of influence. Perhaps the best-known effort in this field was Francisco Ferrer's Modern School (Escuela Moderna), a project which exercised a considerable influence on Catalan education and on experimental techniques of teaching generally.\" La Escuela Moderna, and Ferrer's ideas generally, formed the inspiration for a series of \"Modern Schools\" in the United States, Cuba, South America and London. The first of these was started in New York City in 1911. It also inspired the Italian newspaper \"Università popolare\", founded in 1901.\n\nFerrer wrote an extensive work on education and on his educational experiments called \"The Origin and Ideals of the Modern School\".\n\nThe Modern Schools, also called Ferrer Schools, were United States schools, established in the early twentieth century, that were modeled after the Escuela Moderna of Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia, the Catalan educator and anarchist. They were an important part of the anarchist, free schooling, socialist, and labor movements in the U.S., intended to educate the working-classes from a secular, class-conscious perspective. The Modern Schools imparted day-time academic classes for children, and night-time continuing-education lectures for adults.\n\nThe first, and most notable, of the Modern Schools was founded in New York City, in 1911, two years after Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia's execution for sedition in monarchist Spain on 18 October 1909. Commonly called the Ferrer Center, it was founded by notable anarchists — including Leonard Abbott, Alexander Berkman, Voltairine de Cleyre, and Emma Goldman — first meeting on St. Mark's Place, in Manhattan's Lower East Side, but twice moved elsewhere, first within lower Manhattan, then to Harlem. The Ferrer Center opened with only nine students, one being the son of Margaret Sanger, the contraceptives-rights activist. Starting in 1912, the school's principal was the philosopher Will Durant, who also taught there. Besides Berkman and Goldman, the Ferrer Center faculty included the Ashcan School painters Robert Henri and George Bellows, and its guest lecturers included writers and political activists such as Margaret Sanger, Jack London, and Upton Sinclair. Student Magda Schoenwetter, recalled that the school used Montessori methods and equipment, and emphasised academic freedom rather than fixed subjects, such as spelling and arithmetic. \"The Modern School\" magazine originally began as a newsletter for parents, when the school was in New York City, printed with the manual printing press used in teaching printing as a profession. After moving to the Stelton Colony, New Jersey, the magazine's content expanded to poetry, prose, art, and libertarian education articles; the cover emblem and interior graphics were designed by Rockwell Kent. Artists and writers, among them Hart Crane and Wallace Stevens, praised \"The Modern School\" as “the most beautifully printed magazine in existence.”\n\nAfter the 4 July 1914 Lexington Avenue bombing, the police investigated and several times raided the Ferrer Center and other labor and anarchist organisations in New York City. Acknowledging the urban danger to their school, the organizers bought 68 acres (275,000 m²) in Piscataway Township, New Jersey, and moved there in 1914, becoming the center of the Stelton Colony. Moreover, beyond New York City, the Ferrer Colony and Modern School was founded (ca. 1910–1915) as a Modern School-based community, that endured some forty years. In 1933, James and Nellie Dick, who earlier had been principals of the Stelton Modern School, founded the Modern School in Lakewood, New Jersey, which survived the original Modern School, the Ferrer Center, becoming the final surviving such school, lasting until 1958.\n\nIn an essay entitled \"The child and its enemies\" Lithuanian-American anarcha-feminist Emma Goldman manifested that \"The child shows its individual tendencies in its plays, in its questions, in its association with people and things. But it has to struggle with everlasting external interference in its world of thought and emotion. It must not express itself in harmony with its nature, with its growing personality. It must become a thing, an object. Its questions are met with narrow, conventional, ridiculous replies, mostly based on falsehoods; and, when, with large, wondering, innocent eyes, it wishes to behold the wonders of the world, those about it quickly lock the windows and doors, and keep the delicate human plant in a hothouse atmosphere, where it can neither breathe nor grow freely.\" Goldman in the essay entitled \"The Social Importance of the Modern School\" saw that \"the school of today, no matter whether public, private, or parochial...is for the child what the prison is for the convict and the barracks for the soldier — a place where everything is being used to break the will of the child, and then to pound, knead, and shape it into a being utterly foreign to itself.\"\n\nIn this way \"it will be necessary to realize that education of children is not synonymous with herdlike drilling and training. If education should really mean anything at all, it must insist upon the free growth and development of the innate forces and tendencies of the child. In this way alone can we hope for the free individual and eventually also for a free community, which shall make interference and coercion of human growth impossible.\"\n\nGoldman in her essay on the Modern School also dealt with the issue of Sex education. She denounced that \"educators also know the evil and sinister results of ignorance in sex matters. Yet, they have neither understanding nor humanity enough to break down the wall which puritanism has built around sex...If in childhood both man and woman were taught a beautiful comradeship, it would neutralize the oversexed condition of both and would help woman's emancipation much more than all the laws upon the statute books and her right to vote.\"\n\nExperiments in Germany led to A. S. Neill founding what became Summerhill School in 1921. Summerhill is often cited as an example of anarchism in practice. British anarchists Stuart Christie and Albert Meltzer manifested that \"A.S. Neill is the modern pioneer of libertarian education and of “hearts not heads in the school”. Although he has denied being an anarchist, it would be hard to know how else to describe his philosophy, though he is correct in recognising the difference between revolution in philosophy and pedagogy, and the revolutionary change of society. They are associated but not the same thing.\" However, although Summerhill and other free schools are radically libertarian, they differ in principle from those of Ferrer by not advocating an overtly political class struggle-approach.\n\nThe English anarchist philosopher, art critic and poet, Herbert Read developed a strong interest in the subject of education and particularly in art education. Read's anarchism was influenced by William Godwin, Peter Kropotkin and Max Stirner. Read \"became deeply interested in children’s drawings and paintings after having been invited to collect works for an exhibition of British art that would tour allied and neutral countries during the Second World War. As it was considered too risky to transport across the Atlantic works of established importance to the national heritage, it was proposed that children’s drawings and paintings should be sent instead. Read, in making his collection, was unexpectedly moved by the expressive power and emotional content of some of the younger artist’s works. The experience prompted his special attention to their cultural value, and his engagement of the theory of children’s creativity with seriousness matching his devotion to the avant-garde. This work both changed fundamentally his own life’s work throughout his remaining twenty-five years and provided art education with a rationale of unprecedented lucidity and persuasiveness. Key books and pamphlets resulted: \"Education through Art\" (Read, 1943); \"The Education of Free Men\" (Read, 1944); \"Culture and Education in a World Order\" (Read, 1948); \"The Grass Read\", (1955); and \"Redemption of the Robot\" (1970)\".\n\nRead \"elaborated a socio-cultural dimension of creative education, offering the notion of greater international understanding and cohesiveness rooted in principles of developing the fully balanced personality through art education. Read argued in Education through Art that \"every child, is said to be a potential neurotic capable of being saved from this prospect, if early, largely inborn, creative abilities were not repressed by conventional Education. Everyone is an artist of some kind whose special abilities, even if almost insignificant, must be encouraged as contributing to an infinite richness of collective life. Read’s newly expressed view of an essential ‘continuity’ of\nchild and adult creativity in everyone represented a synthesis' the two opposed models of twentieth-century art education that had predominated until this point...Read did not offer a curriculum but a theoretical defence of the genuine and true. His claims for genuineness and truth were based on the overwhelming evidence of characteristics revealed in his study of child art...From 1946 until his death in 1968 he was president of the Society for Education in Art (SEA), the renamed ATG, in which capacity he had a platform for addressing UNESCO...On the basis of such representation Read, with others, succeeded in establishing the International Society for Education through Art (INSEA)\nas an executive arm of UNESCO in 1954.\"\"\n\nPaul Goodman was an important anarchist critic of contemporary educational systems as can be seen in his books \"Growing Up Absurd\" and \"Compulsory Mis-education\". Goodman believed that in contemporary societies \"It is in the schools and from the mass media, rather than at home or from their friends, that the mass of our citizens in all classes learn that life is inevitably routine, depersonalized, venally graded; that it is best to toe the mark and shut up; that there is no place for spontaneity, open sexuality and free spirit. Trained in the schools they go on to the same quality of jobs, culture and politics. This is education, miseducation socializing to the national norms and regimenting to the nation's \"needs\" \"\n\nGoodman thought that a person's most valuable educational experiences \"occur outside the school. Participation in the activities of society should be the chief means of learning. Instead of requiring students to succumb to the theoretical drudgery of textbook learning, Goodman recommends that education be transferred into factories, museums, parks, department stores, etc, where the students can actively participate in their education...The ideal schools would take the form of small discussion groups of no more than twenty individuals. As has been indicated, these groups would utilize any effective environment that would be relevant to the interest of the group. Such education would be necessarily non-compulsory, for any compulsion to attend places authority in an external body disassociated from the needs and aspirations of the students. Moreover, compulsion retards and impedes the students' ability to learn.\" As far as the current educational system Goodman thought that \"The basic intention behind the compulsory attendance laws is not only to insure the socialization process but also to control the labour supply quantitatively within an industrialized economy characterized by unemployment and inflation. The public schools and universities have become large holding tanks of potential workers.\"\n\nThe term deschooling was popularized by Ivan Illich, who argued that the school as an institution is dysfunctional for self-determined learning and serves the creation of a consumer society instead. Illich thought that \"the dismantling of the public education system would coincide with a pervasive abolition of all the suppressive institutions of society\". Illich \"charges public schooling with institutionalizing acceptable moral and behavioral standards and with constitutionally violating the rights of young adults...IIlich subscribes to Goodman's belief that most\nof the useful education that people acquire is a by-product of work or leisure and not of the school. Illich refers to this process as \"informal education\". Only through this unrestricted and unregulated form of learning can the individual\ngain a sense of self-awareness and develop his creative capacity to its fullest extent.\". Illich thought that the main goals of an alternative education systems should be \"to provide access to available resources to all who want to learn: to empower\nall who want to share what they know; to find those who want to learn it from them; to furnish all who want to present an issue to the public with the opportunity to make their challenges known. The system of learning webs is aimed at individual freedom and expression in education by using society as the classroom. There would be reference services to index items available for study in laboratories, theatres, airports, libraries, etc.; skill exchanges which would permit people to list their skills so that potential students could contact them; peer-matching, which would communicate an individual's interest so that he or she could find educational associates; reference services to educators at large, which would be a central directory of professionals, para professionals and freelancers.\".\n\nEnglish anarchist Colin Ward in his main theoretical publication \"Anarchy in Action\" (1973) in a chapter called \"Schools No Longer\" \"discusses the genealogy of education and schooling, in particular examining the writings of Everett Reimer and Ivan Illich, and the beliefs of anarchist educator Paul Goodman. Many of Colin’s writings in the 1970s, in particular \"Streetwork: The Exploding School\" (1973, with Anthony Fyson), focused on learning practices and spaces outside of the school building. In introducing \"Streetwork\", Ward writes, “[this] is a book about ideas: ideas of the environment as the educational resource, ideas of the enquiring school, the school without walls…”. In the same year, Ward contributed to \"Education Without Schools\" (edited by Peter Buckman) discussing ‘the role of the state’. He argued that “one significant role of the state in the national education systems of the world is to perpetuate social and economic injustice”\".\n\nIn \"The Child in the City\" (1978), and later \"The Child in the Country\" (1988), Ward \"examined the everyday spaces of young people’s lives and how they can negotiate and re-articulate the various environments they inhabit. In his earlier text, the more famous of the two, Colin Ward explores the creativity and uniqueness of children and how they cultivate ‘the art of making the city work’. He argued that through play, appropriation and imagination, children can counter adult-based intentions and interpretations of the built environment. His later text, The Child in the Country, inspired a number of social scientists, notably geographer Chris Philo (1992), to call for more attention to be paid to young people as a ‘hidden’ and marginalised group in society.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6128306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6128306", "title": "Australian Christian Lobby", "text": "Australian Christian Lobby\n\nThe Australian Christian Lobby (ACL) is a prominent conservative Christian advocacy organisation, based in Canberra. It is similar to the Christian right lobby groups found in the United States.\n\nIn 2017 it conducted a high-profile unsuccessful campaign to retain the legal definition of marriage as being between a man and a woman and sought to exempt debate on this topic from hate speech laws.\n\nLGBTIQ advocate Carl Katter has said that the aim of the group is to \"facilitate and perpetuate hate\". Others have said it operates from a Christian dominionist and reconstructionist theology. ACL rejects those labels.\n\nThe ACL is registered as a public company, limited by guarantee and files political expenditure returns with the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC). Funding comes mostly from individuals but names are not disclosed by the organisation. It has no political affiliation and makes no statements regarding faith. Eternity House, the Deakin ACT headquarters of ACL is registered as a separate not-for-profit entity.\n\nJim Wallace was the managing director of ACL from 2000 to 2013. Lyle Shelton was managing director from 2013 to 2018. Martyn Iles was appointed managing director in 2018. The company has a self-appointed board of management – board members are invited to join by existing board members. Board members are not elected by members. The organisation's biggest expense is paying staff.\n\nACL is represented in each State with State Directors operating out of each capital city. The Queensland State Director is Wendy Francis and the Western Australian State Director is Peter Abetz.\n\nIn 2018, Shelton resigned from his ACL position to re-enter party politics, joining Cory Bernardi's Australian Conservatives as federal communications director.\n\nACL activities include:\n\nThe Australian Christian Coalition (ACC) was founded in 1995 by John Gagliardi, a lay leader of a large Pentecostal church in Brisbane. Gagliardi had held journalistic positions as editor of the \"Townsville Bulletin\" and as a presenter for Channel 10 news. Co-founders include John McNicoll, a retired Baptist minister turned lobbyist in Canberra, and John Miller, a Baptist who held lay leadership positions within his Canberra church.\n\nThe organisation changed its name to the Australian Christian Lobby (ACL) in March 2001.\n\nIn September 2012 Prime Minister Julia Gillard cancelled a speech to the ACL's annual conference after the organisation's managing director Jim Wallace argued that the health effects of homosexuality on individuals were worse than smoking.\n\nThe Australian Christian Lobby has threatened to take the unprecedented step of campaigning against a Coalition government, warning Liberal MPs that it could direct members to support minor right-wing parties if they don't follow their policy of a People's Vote.\n\nIn October 2014, ACL held a conference at the Hyatt Hotel Canberra which was followed by complaints to the hotel and a social media campaign directed against it. In response the hotel issued a statement saying they, \"don't discriminate against guests who want to conduct lawful business at Hyatt hotels\". This subsequently, \"attracted considerable community support for the commercial rights of the Hyatt and threatened the free-speech credentials of the marriage-equality lobby\". In September 2016, a meeting at a Sydney hotel, planned by ACL to discuss same-sex marriage issues, had to be cancelled due to \"threats of violence\" to staff and guests. The 100 participants subsequently met at another venue.\n\nIn December 2016, a van containing four 9 kg propane-gas bottles was set on fire beside the ACL building, which caused $100,000 damage to ACL's empty offices. Following the incident ACL managing director\nLyle Shelton stated that it had been an attack targeting the organisation due to its public advocacy. During a Senate Estimates hearing in October 2017, Australian Federal Police Commissioner Andrew Colvin stated that the AFP and Director of Public Prosecutions believed that the actions of the driver, Jayden Duong, were not politically or religiously motivated and his main motivation had been to commit suicide. Assistant Commissioner Justine Saunders, the Chief Police Officer for the ACT, also stated that Duong had selected the ACL's car park to set off the explosion as it was isolated.\n\nSeveral people having an affiliation with ACL have had their employers targeted and have been attacked through social media. Those employers have included an accountancy firm, a technology company, an IT firm and a university. In March 2017, ACL was granted permission by The Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission to keep their board members' names secret on the grounds of \"public safety\", following abuse and threats. In March 2017 the Anglican Archbishop of Sydney Glenn Davies and Catholic Archbishop of Sydney Anthony Fisher criticised the attacks by social media users directed against members of the ACL.\n\nOn 9 May 2017 ACL hosted a seminar in Melbourne entitled \"Is Safe Schools safe?\", with the speakers, Professor of Paediatrics at the University of Western Sydney, John Whitehall and Dr Elisabeth Taylor from ACL. About 30 people, several of whom had their faces covered with bandanas, blocked the entrance to the seminar stopping the majority of the attendees from entering.\n\nDuring the campaigning associated with the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey, the ACL received threats and suspicious packages were sent to their office which necessitated the evacuation of 30 staff at the Canberra mail-centre. The Lobby's offices were also egged, and received letters containing glitter.\n\nOne of the main criticisms of the ACL is that it overstates the constituency it represents. Jim Wallace, one time managing director of the ACL, confirmed that the organisation represents its supporters only but stated that they also contact a group of representative theologians representing a number of denominations.\n\nWhile its claimed constituency is unproven, John Warhurst, emeritus professor of political science at the Australian National University said that ACL has been successful in establishing itself \"in the top echelon of lobbying groups\", has the \"professional knowledge to run modern election campaigns\" and \"will not go away\"\nWarhurst notes that ACL as an evangelical lobby group is more politically influential than the Family First party.\n\nAcademic assessments of the ACL's influence differ. Professor Marion Maddox, of Macquarie University said in 2016 that ACL has achieved, \"remarkable influence with political leaders on both sides.\" In contrast, Geoffrey Robinson, a senior lecturer at Deakin University, stated in 2015 that the ACL's influence had been decreasing since 2013 and the organisation had become only influential on the conservative side of politics.\n\nFormer Attorney-General Robert McClelland said in a speech to the ACL's 2012 conference that those protesting against the organisation would not have recognised that it had supported amendments to 84 pieces of Commonwealth legislation that removed discrimination against same-sex couples. In contrast, in 2012 the leader of the Australian Greens Christine Milne stated that the ACL's \"whole focus is to attack the gay community\" and as it is a private company with no affiliated churches, it was not suitable for the prime minister to attend its events.\n\nSome Christian leaders have stated the ACL's campaigning against gay rights does not represent the stance of all Christians, and several Christian Churches have stated they are frustrated and concerned about the ACL's actions on the issue. In 2013 Professor Rodney Smith from Sydney University stated that while the ACL was supported by senior members of the Anglican, Orthodox and Catholic churches, many other members of the churches do not agree with the Lobby's positions.\n\nIn 2016 the Australian Sex Party called for the ACL to be de-registered as a charity on the grounds that its main focus is political campaigning against same-sex marriage.\n\nThe ACL has been described as extremist, influenced by Christian dominionism and reconstructionism. This is denied by the ACL.\n\nACL has established the 'Lachlan Macquarie Institute', as a training organisation for public policy influencers.\n\nACL provided the seed-funding for, and works with, the Human Rights Law Alliance (HRLA). The HRLA focuses on, what it sees as, freedoms neglected by the Australian Human Rights Commission, such as: 'freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of conscience and freedom of association'.\n\nACL has established the 'Centre for Human Dignity' which it describes as \"an initiative\" which is \"against sexual exploitation\".\n\nACL supports:\n\nACL opposes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1065114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065114", "title": "Black Brigades", "text": "Black Brigades\n\nThe Corpo Ausiliario delle Squadre d'azione di Camicie Nere (Italian: Auxiliary Corps of the Black Shirts' Action Squads), most widely known as the Black Brigades () was one of the Fascist paramilitary groups, organized and run by the Republican Fascist Party (\"Partito Fascista Repubblicano\", PFR) operating in the Italian Social Republic (in northern Italy), during the final years of World War II, and after the signing of the Italian Armistice in 1943. They were officially led by Alessandro Pavolini, former Minister of Culture (MINCULPOP) of the fascist era during the last years of the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nOn 26 July 1943 Italian dictator, Benito Mussolini, was arrested after the Italian Grand Council of Fascism (\"Gran Consiglio del Fascismo\"), with the support of King Vittorio Emanuele III, overthrew him and began negotiations with the Allies for Italy's withdrawal from the war. The Italian government was taken over by Marshal Pietro Badoglio, who outlawed the National Fascist Party (\"Partito Nazionale Fascista\", PNF) and confiscated all of its assets.\n\nOn 12 September Mussolini was rescued in the Gran Sasso raid by German Luftwaffe Fallschirmjäger (paratroopers) led by General Kurt Student and the Waffen-SS \"Obersturmbannführer\" (Lieutenant Colonel), Otto Skorzeny. He was then installed by the Germans as the President of the Italian Social Republic (RSI). The RSI was to be an Italian regime which was to nominally administer the German-occupied northern Italy.\n\nAs the \"Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale\" (MVSN, also known as \"Blackshirts\", \"Camicie Nere\") had been disbanded in August by the terms of the armistice, the \"Guardia Nazionale Repubblicana\" was formed on 24 November 1943, and was to constitute the new fascist police force. The \"Guardia Nazionale Repubblicana\" was formed out of local police, ex-army, ex-Blackshirts and others still loyal to the fascist cause. \nAnti-fascist political forces in northern Italy, on their side, decided to oppose in arms against the RSI and the German occupants, and began to recruit armed clandestine formations for guerrilla and urban warfare, with support from the Allies. Soon, a bloody civil war started in northern Italy.\n\nHowever, as soon as the fascist party in the RSI was reopened and reorganized as Republican Fascist Party (\"Partito Fascista Repubblicano\" - PFR), its members began to organize \"private\" armed units, to protect themselves and party officials from attacks by Italian resistance fighters, who actually started very soon to target RSI authorities and supporters. RSI manpower proved to be insufficient, and Italian authorities decided to organize all fascist party volunteer units in a dedicated structure, and to raise new forces. \nThe Black Brigades were formed from members of the Republican Fascist Party. Formation of the Black Brigades was sanctioned by a Fascist Republican Party decree issued personally by Benito Mussolini, head of PFR and of the RSI government, dated 30 June 1944, stating that all existing fascist armed units were to be enlisted into a military organization called \"Corpo Ausiliario delle Squadre d'Azione di Camicie Nere\", and that every local Federation of the PFR (there was one in every Italian province) had to raise a military unit drafting personnel from its members. Units so formed were to be called \"Black Brigades\", and were to be commanded by the local Federal Secretary of the PFR, with the rank of Major or Colonel.\n\nTheir duties were:\n\nThis measure was to be both a response to resistance attacks against fascist members, and to turn the PFR into a fighting force to cope with shortage of manpower for internal security. Moreover, Mussolini and other fascist leaders felt that the Fascist Party was more true to its ideology if brought back to its original spirit, when it was manned mainly by soldiers and veterans and was above all a fighting organization. In this optic, they decided to mobilize it for war duties, under the concept that every fascist was to be first of all a combatant, and had to take arms for the defense of Italy and fascism.\nBlack Brigades membership was compulsory for all members of the PFR deemed fit for such duties. Members were officially called \"Squadristi\" (Squad-men) (like the very first fascist Black Shirts of 1920s), and were divided into three categories: \"Squadristi Permanenti\" (Full-time squad-men), \"Ausiliari di pronto impiego\" (Ready Response Auxiliaries), \"Ausiliari\" (Auxiliaries). Only full-time personnel were required to be on duty daily, while other two categories were to be mobilized only in case of emergency.\nBlack Brigade members were entitled to police powers, to carry firearms and to circulate freely even during curfew. Full-time personnel received a monthly wage of ITL 200.00\n\nPolice effectiveness of Black Brigades was, in best terms, feeble. Aside from particularly strong and well equipped Brigades (such as VIIIth \"Aldo Resega\" of Milan, 2000 strong) that were exceptions, the average Black Brigades were at most 2-300 men strong, poorly equipped and armed, with little if any military training, and were hardly in conditions to defend themselves from partisan attacks, not to mention provide support to military authorities. \n\nMany of their members were obscure figures evicted from police or army, and conspicuous were also the hardline fascists who were pushed by resentment and revenge towards that part of Italian population who, in their eyes, betrayed the Fascist regime. Many were also old \"Squadristi\" fascists who had served in the '20s, and who were eager to retake a first-place role in the ranks of the Fascist Party. In general terms, poor average discipline made all these individuals difficult to control, and prone to abuses. \nAs the military situation worsened, German mistrust towards the RSI military grew, and even Social Republic authorities looked at the Black Brigades with contempt. All these factors contributed to push the Black Brigades into political radicalization and an increasingly hostile behaviour towards the population itself, among which they gained a fearsome reputation of fanatical brutality and summary procedures. \nApart from a few Black Brigades who had been found reliable enough to be committed in regular combat against Partisans and Allies, most of these formations had poor military or even police capabilities and were mainly employed in static guard duties, patrols, and were often unleashed in brutal reprisals and retaliations against Partisans' attacks and ambushes to RSI military personnel. There, they usually performed well enough, displaying undeniable bravery but also brutality (which the Partisans promptly reciprocated), in the merciless guerrilla warfare that ravaged northern Italy in 1944-45. Therefore, they were an important law enforcement instrument for German and Italian authorities.\n\nThe Brigade members not only fought the Allies and the Italian partisans, but they also fought against political opponents and other Black Brigade members whose support of \"the cause\" was deemed less than exuberant. Many Black Brigade members were killed in this type of in-fighting.\n\nAfter the armistice (April 25th, 1945) and the end of the war in Italy, many members of the Black Brigades suffered harsh reprisals from Partisan forces. To this day, the number of Black Brigades soldiers who fell victim of summary executions remains unknown.\n\nThe Black Brigades were frequently involved in support of German units during anti-partisan operations which resulted in massacres of the Italian civilian population, like at the Vinca massacre where 162 civilians were executed where the 40. Brigata nera “Vittorio Ricciarelli” di Livorno was invovled.\n\nMembers of Black Brigades were issued standard Italian army uniforms, and they tended to wear them with a black turtleneck sweater, or (in summer) the famous black shirt, as the symbol of loyalty to Mussolini and membership of the Republican Fascist Party. They sometimes wore this uniform with a windproof jacket in solid or camouflage colors. Members of Black Brigades tended to wear the grey-green uniform pants, but a wide array of uniforms were issued and, especially in closing stages of the war, Black Brigades members used just anything they could obtain: army camouflaged one-piece suits, smocks and pants, paratroopers' collarless jump jackets (very popular), tropical Italian army uniforms, German pants and \"feldjacken\", and frequently local produced uniforms and gear.\n\nThe badge or insignia of the Black Brigades was the jawless death's head, with a dagger in its teeth, or one of assorted Italian versions. Collar tabs were issued, unique to the Black Brigades, consisting in square-shaped tabs with pointed tip, of solid black cloth, on which was pinned a bright red republican fascio, in the lower part. In the upper part, every Brigade chose its own insignia: either one of the many variants of skulls (with or without crossbones) or coloured facing. Regulations prescribed for all members of the Black Brigades to wear a metal enamelled breast badge, of roundel shape, showing a golden fascio amidst Italian national colours in vertical stripes, and surrounded by a black enamel rim with the inscription: \"Corpo Ausiliario delle Squadre d'Azione di Camicie Nere\", in capital letters, and in the lower part the identification number of the Brigade. Contemporary pictures show that this badge however, although certainly issued on large scale, was not so often worn.\n\nMany Black Brigades adopted sleeve badges, following Italian military tradition, both cloth and metal. These were usually of very fine workmanship, often minted and enamelled, and are today high-priced collectors items. Rank insignias were the same of those prescribed for the Italian army; however, were rarely worn. Towards the end of the war a specific rank system was introduced for the Black Brigades, unique to them, but it does not seem to have ever been implemented.\nThe majority of Black Brigade members wore Italian army ski caps or berets dyed black. Some photos show members also wearing black German-style caps. Some were Italian made, some were supplied by Germany. Combat headgear was the ubiquitous M33 olive-green helmet, sometimes adorned with Black Brigades' skull insignia. German M35 helmets were also used, ando so were M33 black MVSN helmets. Helmets were often sprayed with various camouflage pattern, as was very common in that period. Combat gear and carrying equipment was the same of army soldiers. \"Samurai\" magazine vest, originally intended for elite army units, was widely used and so were a vast sorting of pouches, magazine-holders, holsters, both official issue (Italian or German) and privately made, carried on Italian M1908 olive-green leather carrying equipment.\n\n\nThe Black Brigades were not actually brigade-sized units. The Italian word \"brigata\" has a looser meaning as a synonym of \"group\" or \"assembly\". The Black Brigades were typically weak battalions or strong companies, each comprising 200 to 300 men. There were 41 territorial brigades. The territorial brigades were numbered 1 through 41. There were also seven \"independent\" and eight \"mobile\" brigades. The mobile brigades were numbered 1 through 7, plus the Second Arditi Brigade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8472935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8472935", "title": "Chindian", "text": "Chindian\n\nChindian (; Hindi: चीनी भारतीय; ISAT: Chini Bhartiya) is an informal term used to refer to a person of mixed Indian and Chinese ancestry; i.e. from any of the host of ethnic groups native to modern China and India. There are a considerable number of Chindians in Malaysia and Singapore, where people of Chinese and Indian origin immigrated in large numbers during the 19th and 20th centuries. There are also a sizeable number living in Hong Kong and smaller numbers in other countries with large overseas Chinese and Indian diaspora, such as Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Suriname and Guyana in the Caribbean, as well as in Indonesia, the Philippines, the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn Singapore, the majority of interracial marriages occur between Chinese and Indians. The government of Singapore classifies them as their father's ethnicity. According to government statistics, 2.4% of Singapore's population are multiracial, mostly Chindians. The highest number of interethnic marriages was in 2007, when 16.4% of the 20,000 marriages in Singapore were interethnic, again mostly between Chinese and Indians. Singapore only began to allow mixed-race persons to register two racial classification on their identity cards in 2010. Parents may choose which of the two is listed first. More than two races may not be listed even if the person has several different ethnicities in their ancestry. Like in Malaysia, most Chindians in Singapore are offspring of interracial relationships between Indian males and Chinese females.\n\nIn Malaysia, the majority of interracial marriages occur between Chinese and Indians. The offspring of such marriages are informally known as \"Chindian\". The Malaysian government, however, considers them to be an unclassified ethnicity, using the father's ethnicity as the informal term. As the majority of these intermarriages usually involve an Indian male and Chinese female, the majority of Chindian offspring in Malaysia are usually classified as \"Malaysian Indian\" by the Malaysian government.\n\nIndians have been living in Hong Kong long before the partition of India into the nations of India and Pakistan. They migrated to Hong Kong as traders, police officers and army officers during colonial rule.\n\n25,000 of the Muslims in Hong Kong trace their roots back to what is now Pakistan. Around half of them belong to 'local boy' families, Muslims of mixed Chinese (Tanka) and Indian/Pakistani ancestry, descended from early Indian/Pakistani male immigrants who took local Chinese wives and brought their children up as Muslims. These \"local Indians\" were not completely accepted by either the Chinese or Indian communities.\n\nSome Chinese convicts deported from the Straits Settlements were sent to be jailed in Madras in India. The \"Madras district gazetteers, Volume 1\" reported an incident where the Chinese convicts escaped and killed the police sent to apprehend them: \"Much of the building work was done by Chinese convicts sent to the Madras jails from the Straits Settlements (where there was no sufficient prison accommodation) and more than once these people escaped from the temporary buildings' in which they were confined at Lovedale. In 186^ seven of them got away and it was several days before they were apprehended by the Tahsildar, aided by Badagas sent out in all directions to search. On 28 July in the following year twelve others broke out during a very stormy night and parties of armed police were sent out to scour the hills for them. They were at last arrested in Malabar a fortnight later. Some police weapons were found in their possession, and one of the parties of police had disappeared—an ominous coincidence. Search was made all over the country for the party, and at length, on 15 September, their four bodies were found lying in the jungle at Walaghát, half way down the Sispára ghát path, neatly laid out in a row with their severed heads carefully placed on their shoulders. It turned out that the wily Chinamen, on being overtaken, had at first pretended to surrender and had then suddenly attacked the police and killed them with their own weapons.\" Other Chinese convicts in Madras who were released from jail then settled in the Nilgiri mountains near Naduvattam and married Tamil Paraiyan women, having mixed Chinese-Tamil children with them. They were documented by Edgar Thurston. Paraiyan is also anglicized as \"pariah\".\n\nEdgar Thurston described the colony of the Chinese men with their Tamil pariah wives and children: \"Halting in the course of a recent anthropological expedition on the western side of the Nilgiri plateau, in the midst of the Government Cinchona plantations, I came across a small settlement of Chinese, who have squatted for some years on the slopes of the hills between Naduvatam and Gudalur, and developed, as the result of ' marriage ' with Tamil pariah women, into a colony, earning an honest livelihood by growing vegetables, cultivating coffee on a small scale, and adding to their income from these sources by the economic products of the cow. An ambassador was sent to this miniature Chinese Court with a suggestion that the men should, in return for monies, present themselves before me with a view to their measurements being recorded. The reply which came back was in its way racially characteristic as between Hindus and Chinese. In the case of the former, permission to make use of their bodies for the purposes of research depends essentially on a pecuniary transaction, on a scale varying from two to eight annas. The Chinese, on the other hand, though poor, sent a courteous message to the effect that they did not require payment in money, but would be perfectly happy if I would give them, as a memento, copies of their photographs.\" Thurston further describe a specific family: \"The father was a typical Chinaman, whose only grievance was that, in the process of conversion to Christianity, he had been obliged to 'cut him tail off.' The mother was a typical Tamil Pariah of dusky hue. The colour of the children was more closely allied to the yellowish tint of the father than to the dark tint of the mother; and the semimongol parentage was betrayed in the slant eyes, flat nose, and (in one case) conspicuously prominent cheek-bones.\" Thurston's description of the Chinese-Tamil families were cited by others, one mentioned \"an instance mating between a Chinese male with a Tamil Pariah female\" A 1959 book described attempts made to find out what happened to the colony of mixed Chinese and Tamils.\n\nAccording to Alabaster there were lard manufacturers and shoemakers in addition to carpenters. Running tanneries and working with leather was traditionally not considered a respectable profession among upper-caste Hindus, and work was relegated to lower caste \"muchis\" and \"chamars\". There was a high demand, however, for high quality leather goods in colonial India, one that the Chinese were able to fulfill. Alabaster also mentions licensed opium dens run by native Chinese and a \"Cheena Bazaar\" where contraband was readily available. Opium, however, was not illegal until after India's Independence from Great Britain in 1947. Immigration continued unabated through the turn of the century and during World War I partly due to political upheavals in China such as the First and Second Opium Wars, First Sino-Japanese War and the Boxer Rebellion. Around the time of the First World War, the first Chinese-owned tanneries sprang up.\n\nIn Assam, local Assamese women married Chinese migrants during British colonial times. It later became hard to physically differentiate Chinese in Assam from locals during the time of their internment during the 1962 war, as the majority of these Chinese in Assam were mixed.\n\nIn Guyana, Chinese men married Indian women due to the lack of Chinese women in the early days of settlement. Creole sexual relationships and marriages with Chinese and Indians were rare, however it has become more common for Indian women and Chinese men to establish sexual relations with each other and some Chinese men took their Indian wives back with them to China.\nIndian women and children were brought alongside Indian men as coolies while Chinese men made up 99% of Chinese coolies.\n\nThe contrast with the female to male ratio among Indian and Chinese immigrants has been compared by historians.\n\nIn the late 19th to early 20th century, Chinese men in Mauritius married Indian women due to both a lack of Chinese women and higher numbers of Indian women on the island. At first the prospect of relations with Indian women was unappealing to the original all male Chinese migrants yet they eventually had to establish sexual unions with Indian women since there were no Chinese women coming. The 1921 census in Mauritius counted that Indian women there had a total of 148 children sired by Chinese men. These Chinese were mostly traders. Colonialist stereotypes in the sugar colonies of Indians emerged such as \"the degraded coolie woman\" and the \"coolie wife beater\", due to Indian women being murdered by their husbands after they ran away to other richer men since the ratio of Indian women to men was low. It was much more common for Chinese and Indians to intermarry than within their own group. Intermarriage between people of between different Chinese and Indian language groups is rare; it is so rare that the cases of intermarriage between Cantonese and Hakka can be individually named. Similarly, intermarriage between Hakka Chinese and Indians hardly occurs.\n\nIn Trinidad, some Chinese men had relationships with Indian coolie women of Madrasee origin, siring children with them, and it was reported that \"A few children are to be met with born of Madras and Creole parents and some also of Madras and Chinese parents - the Madrasee being the mother\", by the missionary John Morton in 1876, Morton noted that it seemed strange since there were more Indian coolie men than Indian coolie women that Indian coolie women would marry Chinese men, but claimed it was most likely because the Chinese could provide amenities to the women since the Chinese owned shops and they were enticed by these. Indian women were married by indentured Chinese men in Trinidad. Few Chinese women migrated to Trinidad while the majority of Chinese migrants were men. The migration of Chinese to Trinidad resulted in intermarriage between them and others. Chinese in Trinidad became relatively open to having marital relations with other races and Indian women began having families with Chinese in the 1890s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9493642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9493642", "title": "Confidence and supply", "text": "Confidence and supply\n\nIn a parliamentary democracy based on the Westminster system, confidence and supply are required for a minority government to retain power in the lower house.\n\nA confidence-and-supply agreement is one whereby a party or independent members of parliament will support the government in motions of confidence and appropriation or budget (supply) votes, by either voting in favour or abstaining. However, parties and independent members normally retain the right to otherwise vote in favour of their own policies or on conscience on legislative bills.\n\nA coalition government is a more formal arrangement than a confidence-and-supply agreement, in that members from junior parties (i.e. parties other than the largest) gain positions in the cabinet, ministerial roles and may be expected to hold the government whip on passing legislation.\n\nIn most parliamentary democracies, members of a parliament can propose a motion of confidence or of no confidence in the government or executive. The results of such motions show how much support the government currently has in parliament. Should a motion of confidence fail, or a motion of no confidence pass, the government will usually either resign and allow other politicians to form a new government, or call an election.\n\nMost parliamentary democracies require an annual state budget, an appropriation bill, or occasional financial measures to be passed by parliament in order for a government to pay its way and enact its policies. The failure of a supply bill is in effect the same as the failure of a confidence motion. In early modern England, the withholding of funds was one of Parliament's few ways of controlling the monarch.\n\nThe Australian Labor Party Gillard Government formed a minority government in the hung parliament elected at the 2010 federal election resulting from a confidence-and-supply agreement with three independent MPs and one Green MP.\n\nAfter the 2017 British Columbia provincial election, the Green Party of British Columbia agreed to a confidence-and-supply agreement with the British Columbia New Democratic Party. The incumbent British Columbia Liberal Party briefly tried to form a government, but was immediately defeated in a confidence vote by the NDP and Greens.\n\nOn November 2, the legislative assembly voted 25-23 for a motion, introduced by the Progressive Conservatives, to amended the throne speech to declare no confidence in the government. Subsequently, Gallant indicated his intention to resign the premiership and recommend to the lieutenant governor that Higgs be given the mandate to form government: “I will go see the lieutenant governor at her earliest convenience to inform her that I will be resigning as premier, and I will humbly suggest to her honour to allow the leader of the Conservative Party to attempt to form a government and attempt to gain the confidence of the house.” People’s Alliance leader Kris Austin said he would work with the new government “in the areas we agree on,” and reiterated his promise to support the Progressive Conservatives on confidence votes for a period of 18 months. Green Party leader David Coon said he would start working with the Tories in an attempt to ensure his party’s issues were on the government’s agenda.\n\nTwenty-two days after the 1985 Ontario provincial election, the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario government resigned after a vote of no confidence, and the Ontario Liberal Party formed a government with the support of the Ontario New Democratic Party. The agreement between the two parties was referred to as \"The Accord\".\n\nThird Front national governments were formed in 1989 and 1996 with outside support of one of the two major parties, BJP or Congress.\n\nThe CPI-M gave outside support to the Congress Party from 2004-2008, but later withdrew support after the India–United States Civil Nuclear Agreement.\nAfter the 2016 general election, a minority government was formed by Fine Gael and some independents, with confidence-and-supply () support from Fianna Fáil in return for a published set of policy commitments from the government. Fianna Fáil abstains on confidence and supply votes, but reserves the right to vote for or against any bill proposed in the Dáil or Seanad. The deal was to last until the end of 2018, with the possibility of renewal before then to extend it to the five-year maximum term of a Dáil.\n\nIn New Zealand, confidence and supply arrangements are common due to the MMP system used in the country. The parties providing confidence and supply have a more prominent role than in other countries, with MPs from the support parties often being appointed to ministerial portfolios outside of Cabinet. New Zealand codified the procedures it used to form these Governments in its Cabinet Manual.\n\nJohn Key's National Party administration formed a minority government in 2008 thanks to a confidence-and-supply agreement with the ACT, United Future and the Māori Party. A similar arrangement in 2005 had led to Helen Clark's Labour Party forming a coalition government with the Progressive Party, with support on confidence and supply from New Zealand First and United Future. After the 2014 election, National re-entered confidence-and-supply agreements with United Future, the ACT Party, and the Māori Party. In 2017, despite National winning more votes than Labour in the election, New Zealand First chose to enter coalition with Labour to help them change the government, with support on confidence and supply from the left-wing Green Party.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1978, Jim Callaghan's Labour Party stayed in power thanks to a confidence-and-supply agreement with the Liberal Party, in a deal which became known as the Lib-Lab Pact. In return, the Labour Party agreed to modest policy concessions for the Liberal Party.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2017 general election which left Theresa May's Conservative Party without a majority, a confidence-and-supply agreement has been agreed with the Democratic Unionist Party.\nConfidence and supply deals are more frequent in the devolved legislatures of Scotland and Wales due to the use of proportional representation.\n\nScottish Parliament: The Scottish National Party and Scottish Green Party have a confidence and supply deal.\n\nWelsh Assembly:\nThe Welsh Labour Party and Plaid Cymru had a similar co-operation deal until October 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "899284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=899284", "title": "Cornelius the First", "text": "Cornelius the First\n\nCornelius the First (died April 3, 2013) was a black rhinoceros at the Granby Zoo in Granby, Quebec, Canada. The name \"Cornelius\" is a French-language pun, as the French word for \"horn\" is \"corne\".\n\nCornelius was the nominal leader of the federal political party, the Rhinoceros Party of Canada from 1965 to 1993. The party attracted a considerable number of votes in Canadian elections 1979, 1980 and 1984, sometimes even coming in second place in some ridings, but never elected a candidate to the House of Commons of Canada.\n\nThe Party was inspired by Cacareco, a rhinoceros at the São Paulo zoo in Brazil, which was a candidate for the 1958 city council elections with the intention of protesting against political corruption. Electoral officials did not accept Cacareco's candidacy, but he eventually won 100,000 votes, more than any other party in that same election (which was also marked by rampant absenteeism). Today, the term \"Voto Cacareco\" (Cacareco vote) is commonly used to describe protest votes in Brazil.\n\nDuring the Canadian federal election of 1984, the party made a major part of their platform declaring war on Belgium because a Belgian cartoon character, \"Tintin\", killed a rhinoceros in one of the early works of the comics series. The party offered to call off the threatened Belgium-Canada war if Belgium delivered a case of mussels and a case of Belgian beer to Rhinoceros \"Hindquarters\" in Montreal (the Belgian Embassy in Ottawa \"did\", in fact, do this).\n\nThe Granby Zoo eventually traded Cornelius to the San Diego Zoo in exchange for a giraffe. The San Diego Zoo loaned him to the Caldwell Zoo, where he fathered an offspring on January 6, 2003.\n\nCornelius died on April 3, 2013, at the Caldwell Zoo. A news report indicated he \"was suffering from pneumonia and mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was present in his lungs\".\n"}
{"id": "17212818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17212818", "title": "Corner office", "text": "Corner office\n\nA corner office is an office that is located in the corner of a building. Corner offices are considered desirable because they have windows on two exterior walls, as opposed to a typical office with only one window or none at all (windowless offices occupying a corner of a building are therefore not typically considered “corner offices”). \n\nAs corner offices are often given to the most senior executives, the term primarily refers to top management positions or the \"C-Suite\", such as the chief executive officer (CEO), chief operating officer (COO), or chief financial officer (CFO). In organizations which do not use this corporate hierarchy, such as law firms and political parties, the corner office generally refers to the most senior partners or officials who are involved with corporate governance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16461212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16461212", "title": "Edward Crowther", "text": "Edward Crowther\n\nClarence Edward Crowther (known as Edward; born 4 March 1929) was the sixth Anglican Bishop of Kimberley and Kuruman who on appointment was its youngest bishop.\n\nBorn in Bradford on 4 March 1929 he was educated at the University of Leeds, where he obtained a BA in 1950, LLB in 1952, and LLM in 1953 and at Cuddesdon College for one year (1955/56).\n\nCrowther taught criminal and constitutional law at Exeter College, Oxford, in 1952-55. He was ordained deacon in 1956 and priest the following year, serving as curate at St. Philip and St. James' Church, Oxford, in 1956-58. After a preaching tour in the United States and a period (1959-64) as a college chaplain at the University of California, Los Angeles, he became Dean of St Cyprian’s Cathedral, Kimberley in South Africa in September 1964, and then its Diocesan Bishop in 1965. Crowther was consecrated bishop in Cape Town on November 14, and he was formally enthroned in St. Cyprian's Cathedral on November 29, 1965. Two years later he was expelled from the country for his opposition to apartheid. In 1970 he returned to California as Assistant Bishop and obtained a doctorate.\n\n\nNow retired he lives in France.\n"}
{"id": "3019650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3019650", "title": "El pueblo unido jamás será vencido", "text": "El pueblo unido jamás será vencido\n\n\"¡El pueblo unido, jamás será vencido!\" (; : \"The people united will never be defeated\") is one of the most internationally renowned songs of the \"Nueva cancion chilena\" (New Chilean Song) movement. The music of the song was composed by Sergio Ortega and the text written by Quilapayún. The song was composed and recorded in June 1973.\n\nThe song was initially composed as an anthem for the popular unity government, reflecting the spirit behind the mass mobilization of working-class people who in 1970 had elected Salvador Allende for the socialist transformation of Chile. During Allende's campaign \"El pueblo unido jamás será vencido\" was a frequent slogan. The song was interpreted and recorded by a number of music groups shortly after it was composed and performed publicly by Sergio Ortega and Quilapayún. \"New Chilean Song\" music ensembles such as Vientos del Pueblo, Inti-illimani among others, made successful recordings of the song that filled the airways and the backgrounds of political rallies. After the U.S.-backed September 11, 1973 Chilean coup the song became the anthem of the Chilean resistance against the Pinochet regime, both within Chile and among the community of Chilean exiles and their political allies abroad.\n\nHowever, it was especially after Pinochet's September 1973 coup that the group Inti-Illimani (also from Chile) made it famous around the world, after they published the song in the album La Nueva Canción Chilena.\n\nDuring the course of time the song has been used in various protests around the world, most of which have no direct connection to the Chilean coup or Latin America. The lyrics have been adapted or translated into many languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46572035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46572035", "title": "Fred Done", "text": "Fred Done\n\nFred Done (born March 1943) is an English billionaire businessman, the co-owner with his brother Peter Done of the bookmaking chain Betfred, which has more than 1,350 betting shops in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn February 2015, it was announced Fred Done was in talks to sell a 25% stake in the Tote. \n\nIn April 2015, the \"Sunday Times\" estimated the brothers' joint net worth at £1.0 billion.\n\nIn June 2018, Done has made an investment in the Nottingham-based online advertising platform Adzooma.\n"}
{"id": "16672366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16672366", "title": "Freedom Bell", "text": "Freedom Bell\n\nThe Freedom Bell (in German, \"Freiheitsglocke\") in Berlin, Germany, is a bell that was given as a gift from Americans to the city of Berlin in 1950 as a symbol of anti-communism, and was inspired by the American Liberty Bell. Since 1950, the bell has been located in the Rathaus Schöneberg, the former city hall of West Berlin.\n\nThe initiative to give Berlin such a bell was taken by the \"Crusade for Freedom\", a propaganda campaign sponsored by the National Committee for a Free Europe, the organization which operated Radio Free Europe. The campaign was launched by U.S. general Dwight D. Eisenhower on Labor Day, 1950, with General Lucius D. Clay, later known as the \"father of the Berlin airlift\", as its chairman. The stated purpose of the Campaign was to offer all Americans an opportunity to play a personal part in a demonstration of the \"free world's determination to resist Communist aggression.\" The bell was conceived by Abbott Washburn and Nate Crabtree and designed by Walter Dorwin Teague.\n\nThe 10-ton bell arrived from the British bell foundry of Gillett & Johnston to a ticker tape parade in New York City. It carries the inscription \"That this world under God shall have a new birth of freedom\". The bell subsequently visited 26 American cities, and people in every state were encouraged to sign a \"Declaration of Freedom\". 16 million signatures from American citizens were collected and are enshrined in Berlin along with the bell. The bell then traveled to Berlin, and was permanently installed in the West Berlin city hall on United Nations Day, October 24, 1950. More than 400,000 Berliners filled the square before the city hall (now John-F.-Kennedy-Platz) to witness the dedication ceremonies. General Clay gave a speech and pushed the button that started the bell ringing. Its tones were heard throughout East Berlin and into East Germany. The East German Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) launched a demonstration several miles from the dedication site, and party members denounced the ball as a \"war bell\", a \"hunger bell\" and a \"death bell\". SED central committee member Hans Jendretzky warned: \"The rope of the death bell will become the gallows rope for those who ring it.\"\n\nThe Governing Mayor of West Berlin, Ernst Reuter (SPD), declared that Germany \"will never rest or relax until freedom will shine over the countries of Eastern Europe that are at present forced to live in slavery\".\n\nThe bell is rung daily at noon, and at midnight on Christmas Eve and on New Year's Eve. A recording of the ringing was broadcast by RIAS, the American radio in West Berlin, every Sunday just before noon. These broadcasts have been continued by the successor of RIAS, Deutschlandradio Kultur. In the radio broadcasts, the ringing of the bell is followed by an excerpt from the text of the \"Declaration of Freedom\" in German, read by prominent theatre actors.\n\nThe bell has also been rung on several special occasions: the 1953 Uprising of June 17, the 1956 Hungarian Uprising, the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961 and the Reunification of Germany of 1990. In 2001, the bell was rung on occasion of the September 11, 2001 attacks, and thousands of Berlin citizens paid their respect at John-F.-Kennedy-Platz in front of the former city hall of West Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "44368162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368162", "title": "Gideon's Promise", "text": "Gideon's Promise\n\nGideon's Promise, formerly the Southern Public Defender Training Center, is a non-profit organization founded in 2007. The organization is based in Atlanta, Georgia, and provides ongoing continuing education programs for law school students, new public defenders, senior public defenders, law school clinicians and chief public defenders. The organization partners with public defender offices around the country to implement best practices in public defense. Gideon's Promise is dedicated to transforming the culture of the criminal justice system.\n\nTheir mission is to transform the criminal justice system by building a movement of public defenders who provide equal justice for marginalized communities. Public defenders are necessary if we are to realize equal justice in America.\n\nGideon's Promise sees public defenders as the primary engine of change in the criminal justice system and thus they are the primary focus of our efforts. They seek to transform the culture of offices in the belief that it will affect both the larger criminal justice system and communities. The organization partners with public defender offices around the country to implement best practices while driving systemic reform. \n\nJonathan Rapping, president and founder of Gideon's Promise, is a nationally renowned criminal justice innovator and 2014 MacArthur Foundation \"Genius\" Fellow, who moved from Washington, D.C. to Atlanta, because he found the injustice within our criminal justice system – particularly in the South – to be unacceptable.\n\nIn 2007, Rapping founded Gideon's Promise and began an initiative to change the public defense landscape across America by grooming a generation of public defenders – many of whom are often so overwhelmed by crushing caseloads that they are unable to provide their clients the representation the Constitution demands – to rise up and fight against the injustice within our justice system.\n\nIn his quest to train and equip public defenders with the resources necessary to ensure all citizens receive their Constitutional right of \"equal justice for all,\" Rapping and his organization have become symbols of a new civil rights movement.\n\nProfessor Rapping received a J.D. from the George Washington University School of Law, a M.P.A. from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, and a B.A. from the University of Chicago. He is currently a Professor at Atlanta's John Marshall Law School.\n\nJonathan Rapping was honored in 2014 as a MacArthur Fellow for his work with Gideon's Promise.\n\nIn the fall of 2014, president and founder Jonathan Rapping partnered with the state of Maryland in an attempt to improve statewide public defense. Jonathan Rapping was honored in 2014 as a MacArthur Fellow for his work with Gideon's Promise.\n\nIlham Askia is the co-founder of Gideon's Promise, and serves as the organization's executive director.\n\nAskia was 5 years old when her father, although he had long since ended a life of crime to become a devout Muslim, was arrested on an armed robbery warrant. He was convicted and served 10 years in prison. Her father was served by a public defender. Whether it was due to lack of training or overwhelming case load, the public defender did not provide the court details of Askia's father's character change – important information that could have possibly led to an outcome other than prison. This is why Askia helped found Gideon's Promise.\n\nAskia received a Masters in Teaching from Trinity University in Washington, D.C. and a B.S. from Cornell University.\n\n"}
{"id": "56555335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56555335", "title": "Impeachment of Václav Klaus", "text": "Impeachment of Václav Klaus\n\nThe impeachment of Václav Klaus refers to a failed attempt by members of the Czech Senate to impeach the President of the Czech Republic, Václav Klaus. The case was eventually dismissed by the court on the grounds that his mandate had already expired.\n\nThe President of the Czech Republic can only be impeached in the case of an act of treason (which is not defined in the constitution itself). The process must be initiated in the Senate, which has the exclusive power to impeach the president, and then passes to the Constitutional Court, which determines whether the President is guilty or not. If the president is found guilty then they are stripped of their office and may not be elected president again.\n\nVáclav Klaus was elected in 2003 and won his second term in 2008. His term ended in March 2013 as he was ineligible to run for another term. Before his term ended, he announced an amnesty to mark the 20th anniversary of the Czech Republic's independence. The amnesty took effect on 2 January and released all prisoners sentenced to one year or less whose sentences had not been served, and all prisoners over 75 years of age sentenced to ten years or less whose sentences had not been served, as well as cancelling all court proceedings which had been ongoing for longer than eight years. The amnesty was widely criticised by the public.\n\nThe amnesty sparked a public petition to persuade the Czech Senate to charge President Klaus with treason before the Constitutional court, effectively impeaching him. Within 24 hours of its launch, it had collected 24,500 signatures, and by the beginning of February 2013, the petition had been signed by more than 64,000 people.\n\nThe process started on 4 March 2018, three days before Klaus' term expired. 38 Senators voted in favour, and 30 voted against. The court rejected the motion as Klaus' term had already expired and he thus could not be charged with treason.\n\nConstitutional experts were uncertain whether the former President could be impeached. Some experts suggested that the motion had little chance of success as Klaus' actions were unlikely to be considered treason. However, Jan Kudrna expressed the view that the motion had some chance. Severe conducted a survey of Czech lawyers as to whether Klaus was guilty; 75% responded that he was not guilty while 16.7% responded that he was.\n\nKlaus' successor Miloš Zeman, who had not agreed with the amnesty, described the impeachment attempt as a \"hysterical reaction\" and \"absurd\". He noted that treason is not clearly defined by the Constitution but amnesty is a constitutional power given to the President by the Constitution. Miroslav Kalousek, known as a vehement opponent of Klaus' politics, condemned the impeachment attempt as \"gigantic stupidity\".\n"}
{"id": "48736140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48736140", "title": "Insurgency in Egypt (2013–present)", "text": "Insurgency in Egypt (2013–present)\n\nIn July 2013, at the same time as mass protests began against the 3 July coup d'état which deposed Mohamed Morsi, and in parallel with the escalation of the already ongoing jihadist insurgency in the Sinai Peninsula, pro-Muslim Brotherhood militants started violent attacks against policemen and soldiers in Central and Western Egypt. In the following months, new Islamist armed groups were created to reinstate Islamist rule in Egypt, like Soldiers of Egypt and the Popular Resistance Movement. Since 2013, violence in mainland Egypt has escalated and developed into a low-level Islamist insurgency against the Egyptian government.\n\nSome of the main attacks and arrests are described by year:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n103 people were killed in 2013, 195 in 2014, 272 in 2015, 101 in 2016, and at least 160 in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "6671534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6671534", "title": "Internal Security Operations Command", "text": "Internal Security Operations Command\n\nThe Internal Security Operations Command (ISOC) (; ) or ISOC (; ) is the political arm of the Thai military. It was responsible for suppression of leftist groups during the 1970s and 1980s during which it was implicated in atrocities against activists and civilians. ISOC was implicated in a plot to assassinate Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. After Thaksin was deposed in a military coup, the junta transformed the ISOC into a \"government within a government\", giving it wide-reaching authority over the National Anti-Corruption Commission, the Department of Special Investigation, and the Anti-Money Laundering Office (AMLO). The junta also authorized it to help provincial authorities in marketing OTOP products. In June 2007, the junta approved a draft national security bill which gave ISOC sweeping powers to handle \"new forms of threats\" to the country. The ISOC revamp modelled it after the US Department of Homeland Security, and gave ISOC sweeping new powers to allow the ISOC chief to implement security measures such as searches without seeking approval from the prime minister. As of June 2007, ISOC was headed by Army Commander-in-Chief and junta head General Sonthi Boonyaratglin. ISOC operates under the aegis of the Office of the Prime Minister. \n\nISOC's FY2017 budget is 10,410.4 million baht. ISOC has about 5,000-6,000 staff nationwide, excluding those working in the south, and there are 500,000-600,000 internal security volunteers, as well as tens of thousands of people in its information network.\n\nThe Communist Suppression Operations Command (CSOC) was established in 1965 with the assistance of the United States to coordinate nationwide anti-communist operations.\n\nFollowing the 17 November 1971 coup by military dictators Thanom Kittikachorn and Praphas Charusathien, Praphas appointed himself interior minister, chief of police, and head of CSOC.\n\nThe CSOC was implicated in several atrocities in its 1970s war against leftist groups. This included the Red Drum Massacre, the mass murder of southern Thai activists by burning them alive in gasoline drums.\n\nStudent leader Thirayuth Boonmee showed evidence that the destruction of Ban Na Sai village, Bueng Kan District, Nong Khai Province (, Bueng Kan Province) in northeast Thailand was the handiwork of the CSOC. The military had earlier claimed that the Communist Party of Thailand (CPT) was responsible for the village's destruction.\n\nCSOC's name was changed to ISOC in 1974.\n\nISOC conducted operations in cities and the Thai countryside to subvert leftist groups through propaganda and violence. In 1973, the ISOC commenced a bombing campaign against hill tribe villages in northern Thailand.\n\nPrime Minister to-be Prem Tinsulanonda was a senior officer of the ISOC.\n\nISOC's role declined starting in the early-1980s after the downfall of the CPT. However, it still had great influence. On 1 April 1987, after Prime Minister Kukrit Pramoj claimed that ISOC had been brainwashed by communists, over 200 Thai Army Rangers attacked the prime minister's residence.\n\nISOC Deputy Director Pallop Pinmanee was sacked after Lieutenant Thawatchai Klinchana, his driver, was found driving a car containing 67 kilograms of explosives near the residence of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Pallop denied all involvement, noting that \"If I was behind it, I would not have missed.\" Metropolitan Police Bureau commissioner Lt General Wiroj Jantharangsee noted that the explosives in the car were completely assembled, equipped with a remote sensor ready to be detonated, and would have had a blast radius of around one kilometre.\n\nThaksin planned a major restructuring of the ISOC prior to the coup which overthrew him in September 2006. Soon after the coup, the junta released three army suspects in the car bomb plot. Junta leader and Army Commander-in-Chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin appointed himself head of ISOC (its previous head had been the prime minister) and transformed ISOC into a \"government within a government\". The new ISOC was criticized as being a shadowy puppet master pulling the strings of existing agencies, answerable to no one but its leader.\n\nTo protect people in south Thailand from insurgency-related violence, ISOC produced Jatukham Rammathep amulets for distribution to the Buddhist minority. The renowned animist amulets were believed to have magical powers to protect their wearers from violence and large sums are paid for them. The plan was developed by Colonel Manas Khongpan, deputy director of ISOC in Yala Province.\n\nThe cabinet of General Surayud Chulanont gave 732 ISOC staff members an 84.3 million baht \"reward\" in mid-2007. ISOC explained that police and soldiers were temporarily transferred to support ISOC's operation. ISOC wanted to reward them for their hard work and sacrifice. ISOC had originally requested the reward in 2003, but was turned down by the Thaksin government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5250369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250369", "title": "Jacob of London", "text": "Jacob of London\n\nJacob of London was the first known \"Presbyter Judaeorum\" of the Jews of England; appointed to that position by King John in 1199, who also gave him a safe-conduct. He appears to have died in 1217, when Josce of London is mentioned as his successor. He is possibly identical with the rabbi Jacob of London who translated the whole Haggadah into the vernacular so that women and children could understand it (Isserles, \"Darke Mosheh,\" to Tur Orah hayyim, 473).\n\n"}
{"id": "30826812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30826812", "title": "LGBT rights in the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "LGBT rights in the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the Northern Mariana Islands may face legal challenges and discrimination not faced by non-LGBT people. Same-sex marriage and adoption became legal with the Supreme Court's ruling in the case of \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" in June 2015. However, the U.S. territory does not ban discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe Chamorro people have traditionally accepted homosexuality and transgender people. The Chamorro word for a gay man is \"mamflorita\" (literally \"little flowers\").\n\nSame-sex sexual activity has been legal in the Northern Marianas since 1983. \n\nSame-sex marriage became legal in the Commonwealth on June 26, 2015, when the United States Supreme Court ruled that it is unconstitutional to ban same-sex marriages. Prior to this, there was no prohibition on same-sex marriage in the law of the territory, nor do the statutes specify the sex of the parties to a marriage between citizens of the Northern Mariana Islands. Other provisions assume the parties to a marriage are not of the same sex. With respect to a marriage involving one or more non-citizens, the statutes say: \"The male at the time of contracting the marriage be at least 18 years of age and the female at least 16 years of age...\" Statutes concerning divorce assume that the partners to a marriage are man and wife. These laws have yet to be changed to reflect the Supreme Court ruling.\n\nThe first marriage between a same-sex couple occurred on the island of Saipan on July 22, 2015.\n\nThe Northern Mariana Islands does not protect people from discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Additionally, the territory does not ban hate crimes based on sexual orientation and gender identity. However, such hate crimes are banned federally under the \"Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act\".\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender persons are allowed to serve openly in the American Armed Forces.\n\nTransgender persons in the Northern Mariana Islands may change their legal gender following sex reassignment surgery and a name change. The \"Vital Statistics Act of 2006\", which took effect in March 2007, states that: \"Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of the CNMI Superior Court indicating the sex of an individual born in the CNMI has been changed by surgical procedure and whether such individual’s name has been changed, the certificate of birth of such individual shall be amended as prescribed by regulation.\" \n\nThe first pride parade in the Northern Mariana Islands was held in July 2018.\n\nSince legalization in June 2015, the territory has become a popular marriage destination for same-sex couples, especially among Chinese tourists. In the first half of 2018, 77% of all marriages were same-sex marriages.\n\n"}
{"id": "227007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227007", "title": "Lettrism", "text": "Lettrism\n\nLettrism is a French avant-garde movement, established in Paris in the mid-1940s by Romanian immigrant Isidore Isou. In a body of work totaling hundreds of volumes, Isou and the Lettrists have applied their theories to all areas of art and culture, most notably in poetry, film, painting and political theory. The movement has its theoretical roots in Dada and Surrealism. Isou viewed his fellow countryman Tristan Tzara as the greatest creator and rightful leader of the Dada movement, and dismissed most of the others as plagiarists and falsifiers. Among the Surrealists, André Breton was a significant influence, but Isou was dissatisfied by what he saw as the stagnation and theoretical bankruptcy of the movement as it stood in the 1940s.\n\nIn French, the movement is called Lettrisme, from the French word for \"letter\", arising from the fact that many of their early works centred on letters and other visual or spoken symbols. The \"Lettristes\" themselves prefer the spelling 'Letterism' for the Anglicised term, and this is the form that is used on those rare occasions when they produce or supervise English translations of their writings: however, 'Lettrism' is at least as common in English usage. The term, having been the original name that was first given to the group, has lingered as a blanket term to cover all of their activities, even as many of these have moved away from any connection to letters. But other names have also been introduced, either for the group as a whole or for its activities in specific domains, such as 'the Isouian movement', 'youth uprising', 'hypergraphics', 'creatics', 'infinitesimal art' and 'excoördism'.\n\n1925. Isidore Goldstein is born at Botoşani, Romania, on January 31, to an Ashkenazi Jewish family. During the early 1950s, Goldstein would be signing himself 'Jean-Isidore Isou'; otherwise, it has always been 'Isidore Isou'. 'Isou' is standardly taken to be a pseudonym, but Isou/Goldstein himself resists this interpretation.\n\nMy name is Isou. My mother called me Isou, only it's written differently in Romanian. And Goldstein: I'm not ashamed of my name. At Gallimard, I was known as Isidore Isou Goldstein. Isou, it's my name! Only in Romanian it's written Izu, but in French it's Isou.\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral continuation of existing currents, together with new research into psychiatry, mathematics, physics, and chemistry.\nOther members to join the lettrism during the seventies : Woody Roehmer, Anne-Catherine Caron, and during the eighties : Frédérique Devaux, Michel Amarger ...\n\nDevelopment of excoordism. Uncomfortable with the direction the group is going in, Lemaître—Isou's right-hand man for nearly half a century—begins to distance himself from it. He still continues to pursue traditional Letterist techniques, but now in relative isolation from the main group.\n\n\nIsou first invented these phases through an examination of the history of poetry, but the conceptual apparatus he developed could very easily be applied to most other branches of art and culture. In poetry, he felt that the first amplic phase had been initiated by Homer. In effect, Homer set out a blueprint for what a poem ought to be like. Subsequent poets then developed this blueprint, investigating by means of their work all of the different things that could be done within the Homeric parameters. Eventually, however, everything that \"could be\" done within that approach \"had been\" done. In poetry, Isou felt that this point was reached with Victor Hugo (and in painting with Eugène Delacroix, in music with Richard Wagner.). When amplic poetry had been completed, there was simply nothing to be gained by continuing to produce works constructed according to the old model. There would no longer be any genuine creativity or innovation involved, and hence no aesthetic value. This then inaugurated a chiselling phase in the art. Whereas the form had formerly been used as a tool to express things outside its own domain—events, feelings, etc.--it would then turn in on itself and become, perhaps only implicitly, its own subject matter. From Charles Baudelaire to Tristan Tzara (as, in painting, from Manet to Kandinsky; or, in music, from Debussy to Luigi Russolo), subsequent poets would deconstruct the grand edifice of poetry that had been developed over the centuries according to the Homeric model. Finally, when this process of deconstruction had been completed, it would then be time for a new amplic phase to commence. Isou saw himself as the man to show the way. He would take the rubble that remained after the old forms had been shattered, and lay out a new blueprint for reutilising these most basic elements in a radically new way, utterly unlike the poetry of the preceding amplic phase. Isou identified the most basic elements of poetic creation as \"letters\"—i.e. uninterpreted visual symbols and acoustic sounds—and he set out the parameters for new ways of recombining these ingredients in the name of new aesthetic goals.\n\nIsou's idea for the poem of the future was that it should be purely formal, devoid of all semantic content. The Letterist poem, or \"lettrie\", in many ways resembles what certain Italian Futurists (such as Filippo Tommaso Marinetti), Russian Futurists (such as Velemir Chlebnikov, Iliazd, or Alexej Kručenych—cf. Zaum), and Dada poets (such as Raoul Hausmann or Kurt Schwitters) had already been doing, and what subsequent sound poets and concrete poets (such as Bob Cobbing, Eduard Ovčáček or Henri Chopin) would later be doing. However, the Letterists were always keen to insist on their own radical originality and to distinguish their work from other ostensibly similar currents.\n\nOn the visual side, the Letterists first gave the name 'metagraphics' (\"metagraphie\") and then 'hypergraphics' (\"hypergraphie\") to their new synthesis of writing and visual art. Some precedents may be seen in Cubist, Dada and Futurist (both Italian and Russian) painting and typographical works, such as Marinetti's Zang Tumb Tuum, or in poems such as Apollinaire's \"Calligrammes\" but none of them were a full system like hypergraphy.\n\nNotwithstanding the considerably more recent origins of film-making, compared to poetry, painting or music, Isou felt in 1950 that its own first amplic phase had already been completed. He therefore set about inaugurating a chiselling phase for the cinema. As he explained in the voiceover to his first film, \"Treatise of Slime and Eternity\":\n\nI believe firstly that the cinema is too rich. It is obese. It has reached its limits, its maximum. With the first movement of widening which it will outline, the cinema will burst! Under the blow of a congestion, this \"greased pig\" will tear into a thousand pieces. I announce the \"destruction of the cinema\", the first apocalyptic sign of disjunction, of rupture, of this corpulent and bloated organization which calls itself film.\n\nThe two central innovations of Letterist film were: (i) the carving of the image (\"la ciselure d'image\"), where the film-maker would deliberately scratch or paint onto the actual film stock itself. Similar techniques are also employed in Letterist still photography. (ii) Discrepant cinema (\"le cinéma discrépant\"), where the soundtrack and the image-track would be separated, each one telling a different story or pursuing its own more abstract path. The most radical of the Letterist films, Wolman's \"The Anticoncept\" and Debord's \"Howls for Sade\", went even further, and abandoned images altogether. From a visual point of view, the former consisted simply of a fluctuating ball of light, projected onto a large balloon, while the latter alternated a blank white screen (when there was speech in the soundtrack) and a totally black screen (accompanying ever-increasing periods of total silence). In addition, the Letterists utilised material appropriated from other films, a technique which would subsequently be developed (under the title of 'détournement') in Situationist film. They would also often supplement the film with live performance, or, through the 'film-debate', directly involve the audience itself in the total experience.\n\nThe supertemporal frame was a device for inviting and enabling an audience to participate in the creation of a work of art. In its simplest form, this might involve nothing more than the inclusion of several blank pages in a book, for the reader to add his or her own contributions.\n\nRecalling the infinitesimals of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, quantities which could not actually exist except conceptually, the Letterists developed the notion of a work of art which, by its very nature, could never be created in reality, but which could nevertheless provide aesthetic rewards by being contemplated intellectually. Also called \"Art esthapériste\" ('infinite-aesthetics'). Cf. Conceptual Art. Related to this, and arising out of it, is excoördism, the current incarnation of the Isouian movement, defined as the art of the infinitely large and the infinitely small.\n\nIsou identified the amplic phase of political theory and economics as that of Adam Smith and free trade; its chiselling phase was that of Karl Marx and socialism. Isou termed these 'atomic economics' and 'molecular economics' respectively: he launched 'nuclear economics' as a corrective to both of them. Both currents, he felt, had simply failed to take into account a large part of the population, namely those young people and other 'externs' who neither produced nor exchanged goods or capital in any significant way. He felt that the creative urge was an integral part of human nature, but that, unless it was properly guided, it could be diverted into crime and anti-social behaviour. The Letterists sought to restructure every aspect of society in such a way as to enable these externs to channel their creativity in more positive ways.\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Letterists have published literally hundreds of books, journals and substantial articles in French, virtually none of these have been translated into English. One recent exception is:\n\n\nMaurice Lemaître has privately published translations of a few of his own works, though these are not at all easy to find:\n\nBlack Scat Books: 2012 (http://www.blackscatbooks.com)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23206870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23206870", "title": "List of Bulgarian constituencies", "text": "List of Bulgarian constituencies\n\nBulgaria is divided into 31 multi-member constituencies.\n\nIn general the 31 constituencies are arrange as to coincide with the administrative division of Bulgaria, with the exception of Sofia City and Plovdiv provinces, where there are 3 additional constituencies (Sofia City is divided into 3 constituencies and Plovdiv is divided into 2). They are numbered according to their order in Cyrillic.\n\nExperimentally on Bulgarian parliamentary election, 2009, 31 out of the 240 Members of Parliament were elected through majority vote, while the rest 209 are elected through proportional vote. This mixed electoral system was rejected later.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46398965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46398965", "title": "List of Trotskyist organizations by country", "text": "List of Trotskyist organizations by country\n\nThe following is a List of Trotskyist organizations by country. This article lists only those political organizations and parties (include political party factions, but exclude youth organizations and political party alliances) who officially call themselves Trotskyist ideologically, and still exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2451224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451224", "title": "Local option", "text": "Local option\n\nA local option is the ability of local political jurisdictions, typically counties or municipalities, to allow decisions on certain controversial issues based on popular vote within their borders. In practice, it usually relates to the issue of alcoholic beverage and marijuana sales.\n\nAs described by an encyclopedia in 1907, local option is the \"license granted to the inhabitants of a district to extinguish or reduce the sale of intoxicants in their midst.\" A 1911 Encyclopædia describes it as \"specifically used in politics of the power given to the electorate of a particular district to choose whether licences for the sale of intoxicating liquor should be granted or not.\" This form of \"local option\" has also been termed \"local veto.\"\n\nLocal option regarding alcohol was first used in the temperance movement as a means to bring about prohibition gradually. In the 1830s, temperance activists mobilized to restrict licenses in towns and counties in New England. By the 1840s, temperance reformers demanded state laws to allow local voters to decide whether any liquor licenses would be issued in their localities. Some 12 states and territories had some form of these early local option laws by the late 1840s. Controversy over the measures gave rise to the first major confrontation in the United States over the propriety and constitutionality of ballot-box legislation, or referendums. Opponents of local option, which included drinkers and liquor dealers (many of whom were immigrants) argued that local option authorized the \"tyranny of the majority\" and infringed upon the rights of the liquor-dealing and liquor-consuming minority.\n\nLocal option, as a method of alcohol control, made a resurgence after the Civil War. The Anti-Saloon League initially decided to use local option as the mechanism to bring about nationwide prohibition. Its intent was to work across the country at the local level. In many instances, however, it was not the agenda. For instance, several wards in Ontario, Canada, passed local option but were vehemently against province-wide prohibition, preferring to isolate alcohol sales rather than ban them altogether. That is particularly evident in Toronto's Junction neighbourhood, part of which remained notoriously dry as late as 2000, the last area of Ontario to repeal prohibition.\n\nFollowing the repeal of national Prohibition in the United States in 1933, some states chose to maintain prohibition within their own borders. Others chose to permit local option on the controversial issue. In the remainder of states, there was no prohibition. Overlying the patchwork of prohibition, many states (known as alcoholic beverage control states) decided to establish their own monopolies over the wholesaling and/or retailing of alcoholic beverages. Montgomery County, Maryland, for example, has used local option to establish its alcohol control monopoly within its borders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5531621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5531621", "title": "Machinery of government", "text": "Machinery of government\n\nThe machinery of government (sometimes MoG) means the interconnected structures and processes of government, such as the functions and accountability of departments in the executive branch of government. The term is used particularly in the context of changes to established systems of public administration where different elements of machinery are created.\n\nThe phrase \"machinery of government\" is thought to have originated with John Stuart Mill in \"Considerations on Representative Government\" (1861). It was notably used to a public audience by President FD Roosevelt in a radio broadcast in 1934, commenting on the role of the National Recovery Administration (NRA) in delivering the New Deal. A number of national governments including those of Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom have adopted the term in official usage.\n\nIn Australia, the terms ‘machinery of government changes’ and ‘administrative re-arrangements’ are interchangeable and are used to refer to the changes to the structure of government and the allocation of government functions between departments and ministers.\n\nMachinery of government changes may occur at any time, however the most significant changes generally occur immediately following an election. There is usually very little consultation or discussion prior to machinery of government changes in Australia, especially those following elections.\n\nThe Commonwealth Government and some state and territory governments use Administrative Arrangements Orders (also called AAOs) as legal instruments as a primary method to make machinery of government changes.\n\nAt the Commonwealth Government level, Administrative Arrangements Orders (AAOs) are made by the Governor-General on the advice of the Prime Minister formally allocating executive responsibility among ministers. AAOs establish Departments of State under the Constitution, including the principal matters and legislation dealt with by each Department and its Minister(s). \nThe AAO is generally only updated when functions move between departments, ordering machinery of government changes. Since 1901 there have been over 170 AAOs ordered by the Governor-General. Only one AAO remains active at any one time; when a new AAO is made, all previous AAOs are revoked.\nAdministrative Arrangement Orders are generally published in the \"Commonwealth Gazette\".\n\nAdministrative Arrangements Orders are seen by some academics as a central platform of good government management as the orders set the basic structure of cabinet, ministerial responsibilities, portfolios and departments.\n\nWhen an Administrative Arrangements Order orders departments to be split, cut or combined, the costs involved in public service machinery of government may include:\nTotal costs associated with issuing new Administrative Arrangements Orders are unknown, as the costs involved with machinery of government changes are not collated or reported, but in November 2013 the Secretary of the Department of Immigration and Border Protection told a Senate estimates hearing that the cost of the Department's name change was cheap at 'only' an estimated $195,000.\n\nIn Queensland, the Premier has sole responsibility for determining ministerial portfolios. On the Premier’s advice, the Governor of Queensland sets out the responsibilities of ministers and their portfolios in AAOs. AAOs are re-issued or amended when government structural changes take place.\n\nThe biggest machinery of government changes in Queensland's history were in December 1989 under the Labor Government headed by Wayne Goss. Machinery of government changes made in March 2009 were also significant, collapsing 23 stand-alone government departments into 13.\n\nAccording to KPMG, in New South Wales government structure is established under section 104 of the \"Public Sector Employment and Management Act 2002\". The Act gives the Governor of New South Wales the power to create, rename or abolish any NSW Government department through the issue of an executive order, acting on the advice of the elected government.\n\nIn Victoria government structure is set by an Order in Council made under section 10 of the \"Public Administration Act 2004\". The Act gives the Governor of Victoria the power to create departments and allocate functions. Staff and work units can also be transferred between departments by declaration of the relevant Minister.\n\nAccording to KPMG, under section 35(1) of the Western Australian \"Public Sector Management Act 1994\", the Governor of Western Australia may establish, amalgamate or abolish government departments on the recommendation of the Public Service Commissioner. Section 35(4) of the same Act provides that the Minister responsible for public service matters may direct the Public Service Commissioner to make recommendations the Governor and the Commissioner must comply with that recommendation.\n\nAccording to KPMG, in South Australia the Governor may establish, alter and abolish government departments under powers provided in section 26 of the \"Public Service Act 2009\".\n\nIn Tasmania, administrative arrangements are set out in Administrative Arrangements Orders The orders cover which Minister is responsible for the administration of legislation.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, according to KPMG, the Administrator of the Northern Territory determines government structural arrangements, acting on the advice of the government of the day.\n\nAccording to KPMG, in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), the Chief Minister of the ACT is given full power to allocate executive power to ministers and to establish government \"administrative units\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48409567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48409567", "title": "María de Echarri", "text": "María de Echarri\n\nMaría de Echarri y Martínez (9 September 1878 – 1955) was a Spanish catholic propagandist and columnist, advocate of feminist causes.\n\nBorn 9 September 1878 in San Lorenzo de El Escorial, she was teacher by profession. She was a publicist associated to the \"Acción Católica de la Mujer\", in addition to being an advocate of the working woman from a Catholic perspective. She became one of the first female city councillors of Madrid in 1924. In 1927 she became one of the 13 women represented in the so-called Consultative National Assembly of the Primo de Rivera dictatorship, in office from 10 October 1927 to 15 February 1930. She died in San Sebastián in 1955.\n\nShe was a recipient of the \"Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice\" medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "20819947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20819947", "title": "Million Fax on Washington", "text": "Million Fax on Washington\n\nThe Million Fax on Washington was a November 2008 – January 2009 petition aimed at influencing President-elect of the United States Barack Obama to focus the attention of his new administration on the conspiracy theory that claims indications of an extraterrestrial presence on Earth and in our skies. The event was organized by Paradigm Research, a Maryland-based corporation that organizes UFO events. The goal of the Million Fax on Washington project was to reach 40,000 faxes sent to the administration in the 77-day period between election day November 4, 2008 and the presidential inauguration on January 20, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "8308783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8308783", "title": "Ministry of the Treasury (Argentina)", "text": "Ministry of the Treasury (Argentina)\n\nThe Ministry of the Treasury of the Argentine Nation is a ministry and the treasury of the Argentine federal government. \n\nThe current Minister of the Treasury is Nicolás Dujovne.\n\nThe Argentine Ministry of the Treasury has, since the building's 1939 inaugural, been based in a 14-story Rationalist office building designed by local architect Carlos Pibernat. The Economy Ministry building was built on a 0.57 ha (1.4 ac) Montserrat neighborhood lot facing the Casa Rosada presidential office building to the north, and the Defense Ministry (Libertador Building) to the easta government building also designed by Pibernat.\n\nThe building's lobby was decorated with murals painted by the architect's brother, Antonio Pibernat, a post-impressionist painter influenced by the naturalist Barbizon School.\n\nThe post has existed on a formal basis since the 1826 inaugural of Bernardino Rivadavia, who named lawmaker Salvador María del Carril as the nation's first official \"Ministro de Hacienda\". The office became among the most powerful in Argentine Government during the generation after 1880, when English Argentine investment, foreign trade, and immigration spurred development. Customs collections (source of over half of public revenues at the time) and the Central Bank were among the responsibilities placed under the Economy Ministry's aegis, and successive ministers' policies were often enacted through presidential decrees.\n\nIts influence grew further when it absorbed the cabinet post of Minister of Public Works in 1991, to help facilitate Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo's privatizations initiative, and, in turn, divested oversight over the nation's goods-producing sectors with the 2008 designation of the Production Ministry by President Cristina Kirchner, in a bid to improve strained relations with the country's agrarian sector following the 2008 Argentine government conflict with the agricultural sector over export tariffs.\n\nThe Ministry of the Treasury was appropriated a US$1.7 billion operational budget in 2009, and employed over 4,000 staffers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3736978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736978", "title": "National Democratic Rally (Syria)", "text": "National Democratic Rally (Syria)\n\nThe National Democratic Rally or National Democratic Gathering (Arabic التجمع الوطني الديمقراطي, \"at-tajammuʻ al-waţanī ad-dīmūqrāţī\") is a banned opposition alliance in Syria, comprising five political parties of a secularist, pan-Arabist, Arab nationalist and socialist bent.\n\nHassan Ismail Abdelazim, leader of the Democratic Arab Socialist Union, is the official spokesman of the Rally.\n\nThe founding member parties were:\n\nIn 2006, a sixth party joined the coalition: \n\nThe National Democratic Rally was formed in January 1980 by the five member parties listed above, and its membership has not changed since. In several cases these parties were originally opposition wings of parties that had joined the governing National Progressive Front, which is a leftist nationalist party coalition established under the leadership of the Syrian Ba'ath Party. A few parties also had sister parties or factions in other Arab states, such as Nasserist Egypt or Ba'athist Iraq. Its first spokesman was Democratic Arab Socialist Union chairman Jamal al-Atassi. At his death in the year 2000, his role was inherited by his successor at the helm of DASU, Hassan Ismail Abdelazim.\n\nThe Rally took part in the opposition movement of 1980 - a period of civil protest by leftist, Islamist, liberal and nationalist groups which coincided with an armed uprising by Islamists in the Muslim Brotherhood and more radical factions. This led to severe repression of the Rally by the Syrian government; several of its main leaders were given long prison sentences (e.g. Riad al-Turk, jailed 1980-98). The Rally was later active in the Damascus Spring of 2000, holding seminars and advocating political freedom. However, its member parties are now relatively marginal on the Syrian political scene, even if they remain an important segment of the organized opposition, due to decades of severe repression and denial of freedom to organize. Most leaders and many members are today old men, after joining or founding their respective parties in the early 1960s to late 1970s, and have had relatively poor success in appealing to younger generations of Syrians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136754", "title": "National Vanguard (Italy)", "text": "National Vanguard (Italy)\n\nThe National Vanguard () is a name that has been used for at least two neo-fascist groups in Italy.\n\nThe original National Vanguard was an extra-parliamentary movement formed as a breakaway group from the Italian Social Movement (MSI) by Stefano Delle Chiaie in 1960, initially based around a group of youths recruited by the government to break up leftist meetings. The Vanguard rejected the parliamentary route of the Social Movement, preferring instead to work outside the political system to subvert democracy and bring about a return to fascism. A leaflet produced by the group described them as in favour of \"man-to-man engagements\" in which their members were to be encouraged to be as ruthless as possible.\n\nMembers of the movement were frequently denounced as terrorists and it was claimed that Della Chiaie had links to bomb making concerns in Spain. The group also had close links with Ordine Nuovo and other extremist groups. Vincenzo Vinciguerra was a notorious member of the group. The group was adjudged responsible for a series of bomb attacks in Italy in 1969, the most notorious of which was the Piazza Fontana bombing. The group also took a leading role in the abortive coup attempt by Junio Valerio Borghese the following year.\n\nAvanguardia Nazionale organized the assassination of Italian magistrate Vittorio Occorsio, employing arms supplied by the CIA via its contacts in Francoist Spain. For the killing Pierluigi Concutelli is currently serving a life sentence in Italy. Avanguardia Nazionale member Mario Ricci participated to the 1978 assassination of Argala, the \"etarra\" who had taken part, five years before, in the assassination of Francisco Franco's prime minister, Luis Carrero Blanco.\n\nA second group bearing this name was set up in 1970 by Adriano Tilgher, but this movement was outlawed by the Italian government, who saw it as an attempt to refound the National Fascist Party.\n\nA neofascist magazine entitled \"Avanguardia\" continues to be published monthly. It may claim to be the official organ of the National Vanguard, although the movement remains illegal in Italy - the official movement to which \"Avanguardia\" is connected is the \"Comunità Politica di Avanguardia\" (Political Vanguard Community).\n\n"}
{"id": "42379563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42379563", "title": "Next-generation firewall", "text": "Next-generation firewall\n\nA next-generation firewall (NGFW) is a part of the third generation of firewall technology, combining a traditional firewall with other network device filtering functionalities, such as an application firewall using in-line deep packet inspection (DPI), an intrusion prevention system (IPS). Other techniques might also be employed, such as TLS/SSL encrypted traffic inspection, website filtering, QoS/bandwidth management, antivirus inspection and third-party identity management integration (i.e. LDAP, RADIUS, Active Directory).\n\nNGFWs include the typical functions of traditional firewalls such as packet filtering, network- and port-address translation (NAT), stateful inspection, and virtual private network (VPN) support. The goal of next-generation firewalls is to include more layers of the OSI model, improving filtering of network traffic that is dependent on the packet contents.\n\nNGFWs perform deeper inspection compared to stateful inspection performed by the first- and second-generation firewalls. NGFWs use a more thorough inspection style, checking packet payloads and matching signatures for harmful activities such as exploitable attacks and malware.\n\nImproved detection of encrypted applications and intrusion prevention service. Modern threats like web-based malware attacks, targeted attacks, application-layer attacks, and more have had a significantly negative effect on the threat landscape. In fact, more than 80% of all new malware and intrusion attempts are exploiting weaknesses in applications, as opposed to weaknesses in networking components and services.\n\nStateful firewalls with simple packet filtering capabilities were efficient blocking unwanted applications as most applications met the port-protocol expectations. Administrators could promptly prevent an unsafe application from being accessed by users by blocking the associated ports and protocols. But today, blocking a web application like Farmville that uses port 80 by closing the port would also mean complications with the entire HTTP protocol.\n\nProtection based on ports, protocols, IP addresses is no more reliable and viable. This has led to the development of identity-based security approach, which takes organizations a step ahead of conventional security appliances which bind security to IP-addresses.\n\nNGFWs offer administrators a deeper awareness of and control over individual applications, along with deeper inspection capabilities by the firewall. Administrators can create very granular \"allow/deny\" rules for controlling use of websites and applications in the network.\n\n"}
{"id": "1404645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404645", "title": "Olof Palme International Center", "text": "Olof Palme International Center\n\nThe Olof Palme International Center is a Swedish non-governmental organization and the Swedish labour movement's cooperative body for international issues. The center's areas of interest include democracy, human rights and peace.\n\nThe center is named after the late Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme. It was established in 1992 by the Swedish Social Democratic Party, the Swedish Trade Union Confederation and the Swedish Cooperative Union. , the Palme Center has 27 member organizations within the Swedish labour movement.\n\nThe Palme Center works with international development co-operation in the Balkans, Eastern Europe, MENA, Southeast Asia and southern Africa. Most projects are carried out directly by the member organisations, and are partly financed by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) through a framework agreement. The Palme Center also work with advocacy and provides information trough seminairs and reports and organize campaigns concerning international development and international relations.\n\nThe board of the Palme Center is chaired by Member of European Parliament Marita Ulvskog. The Secretary General is Anna Sundström.\n\n"}
{"id": "1814539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1814539", "title": "Party of Labour Basel (founded in 1944)", "text": "Party of Labour Basel (founded in 1944)\n\nParty of Labour Basel (founded in 1944) (in German: \"Partei der Arbeit Basel (gegr. 1944)\"), a splinter group of Swiss Party of Labour in Basel. PdA 1944 was formed in 1988. It is somewhat more orthodox than the main PdA.\n"}
{"id": "6335071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6335071", "title": "Political Google bombs in the 2004 U.S. Presidential election", "text": "Political Google bombs in the 2004 U.S. Presidential election\n\nDuring the 2004 U.S. presidential election, Google bombs were used to further various political agendas. Two of the first were the \"miserable failure\" Google bomb linked to George W. Bush's White House biography and the \"waffles\" Google bomb linked to John Kerry's website. Supporters and detractors of the candidates were able to manipulate search engine rankings so that searches for \"miserable failure\" and \"waffles\" returned links to the targets' sites.\n\nIn 2006, Google altered its searching algorithm to make massive link farms less effective, making search results less politically slanted.\n\nIn January 2009, President Barack Obama's official White House web site also appeared on the first few results for \"miserable failure\" on Live Search and Yahoo, and on the first page of results for the word \"failure\" on Google. The cause of this is disputed, with some claiming it to be the result of a similar campaign. \n\nOthers believe it to be a result of URL redirection from the old White House site (under President Bush) to the site for President Barack Obama. Because the HTTP301 redirect indicates that the old page is permanently replaced by the new one, it also inherits all links to it and therefore the ranking for the same keywords.\n\nU.S. President George W. Bush was the subject of a variety of Google bombs. \"Miserable failure\" was the first. In October 2003, an effort was launched to create links of \"miserable failure\" to the official White House biography of President Bush. In about six weeks, the link to George W. Bush's biography became the first result for \"miserable failure\" on a Google search. \n\nA blogger from Washington has since taken credit for starting this tactic, though the phrase had been in heavy use following its adoption as a catchphrase by the Dick Gephardt campaign. For a time, Bush's official biography had also become the top result for both \"miserable\" and \"failure\".\n\nSenator John Kerry was also the target of Google bombs. The first of these is the \"waffles\" Google bomb. In April 2004, Ken Jacobson, then a law school student at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh launched the \"waffles\" Google bombing of Kerry, in part to retaliate for Democrats' Google bombing of George W. Bush. He encouraged linking of \"waffles\" to John Kerry's official site.\n\nThe term \"waffling\" is used to describe the back and forth motion of the wings of water fowl prior to landing and is often used to describe a person who cannot decide on a particular course of action. Throughout the campaign, Kerry detractors accused him of changing his position on various issues.\n\nBy creating links to the official presidential biography page with text reading \"miserable failure\", a relatively small number (possibly as few as 32) of website owners and bloggers were able to make the site appear as the first result when searching for \"miserable failure\".\n\nPolitical blogger George Johnston of Old Fashioned Patriot claimed to be the coordinator of this particular Google bomb, which began a month after the Dick Gephardt campaign began using the catchphrase \"miserable failure\" to attack the administration. In October 2003, he began to encourage his visitors to participate in the \"bombing\". Democratic partisan e-mailing lists and blogging groups began passing the word to do similar things in the same time period.\n\nThe bomb has proliferated beyond the Google web search: \"miserable failure\" returns images of Bush on Google Images and Local and Maps return the \"US Executive Mansion\" and the White House as the first two results for \"miserable failure\" in Washington, D.C.\n\nGoogle originally took the position that it would not alter the result (or any other Google bombed results) because it wished to preserve the integrity of its search engine. On September 28, 2005, a Google blog written by Marissa Mayer (Google Director of Consumer Web Products) began to appear alongside the search results; the blog explains the situation and the company's reason for not manually editing the search results.\n\"We don't condone the practice of googlebombing, or any other action that seeks to affect the integrity of our search results, but we're also reluctant to alter our results by hand in order to prevent such items from showing up. Pranks like this may be distracting to some, but they don't affect the overall quality of our search service, whose objectivity, as always, remains the core of our mission.\"\nIn January 2007, Google changed their indexing structure so that Google bombs such as \"miserable failure\" would \"typically return commentary, discussions, and articles\" about the tactic itself. Google announced the changes on its official blog. In response to criticism for allowing the Google bombs, Matt Cutts, the head of the Google’s web spam team, said that Google bombs had \"not been a very high priority for us.\"\n\"Over time, we've seen more people assume that they are Google's opinion, or that Google has hand coded the results for these Google bombed queries. That's not true, and it seemed like it was worth trying to correct that misperception.\"\n"}
{"id": "37307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37307", "title": "Political prisoner", "text": "Political prisoner\n\nA political prisoner is someone imprisoned because they have opposed or criticized the government responsible for their imprisonment.\n\nThe term is used by persons or groups challenging the legitimacy of the detention of a prisoner. Supporters of the term define a political prisoner as someone who is imprisoned for his or her participation in political activity. If a political offense was not the official reason for the prisoner's detention, the term would imply that the detention was motivated by the prisoner's politics.\n\nSome understand the term political prisoner narrowly, equating it with the term prisoner of conscience (POC).\n\nAmnesty International campaigns for the release of prisoners of conscience, which include both political prisoners as well as those imprisoned for their religious or philosophical beliefs. To reduce controversy, and as a matter of principle, the organization's policy applies only to prisoners who have not committed or advocated violence. Thus, there are political prisoners who do not fit the narrower criteria for POCs. The organisation defines the differences as follows:\n\nAI uses the term \"political prisoner\" broadly. It does not use it, as some others do, to imply that all such prisoners have a special status or should be released. It uses the term only to define a category of prisoners for whom AI demands a fair and prompt trial.\n\nIn AI's usage, the term includes any prisoner whose case has a significant political element: whether the motivation of the prisoner's acts, the acts in themselves, or the motivation of the authorities.\n\n\"Political\" is used by AI to refer to aspects of human relations related to \"politics\": the mechanisms of society and civil order, the principles, organization, or conduct of government or public affairs, and the relation of all these to questions of language, ethnic origin, sex or religion, status or influence (among other factors).\n\nThe category of political prisoners embraces the category of prisoners of conscience, the only prisoners who AI demands should be immediately and unconditionally released, as well as people who resort to criminal violence for a political motive.\n\nIn AI's use of the term, here are some examples of political prisoners:\n\nGovernments often say they have no political prisoners, only prisoners held under the normal criminal law. AI however describes cases like the examples given above as \"political\" and uses the terms \"political trial\" and \"political imprisonment\" when referring to them. But by doing so AI does not oppose the imprisonment, except where it further maintains that the prisoner is a prisoner of conscience, or condemn the trial, except where it concludes that it was unfair.\nThe Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has a much tighter definition:\n\nA person deprived of his or her personal liberty is to be regarded as a 'political prisoner':\n\nIn the parlance of many political movements that utilize armed resistance, guerrilla warfare, and other forms of political violence, a political prisoner includes people who are imprisoned because they are awaiting trial for, or have been convicted of, actions which states they oppose describe as (accurately or otherwise) terrorism. These movements may consider the actions of political prisoners morally justified against some system of governance, may claim innocence, or have varying understandings of what types of violence are morally and ethically justified. For instance, French anarchist groups typically call the former members of Action Directe held in France political prisoners. While the French government deemed Action Directe illegal, the group fashioned itself as an urban guerilla movement, claiming a legitimate armed struggle. In this sense, \"political prisoner\" can be used to describe any politically active prisoner who is held in custody for a violent action which supporters deem ethically justified.\n\nSome libertarians (such as those who agree with the arguments of Lysander Spooner) also include all convicted for treason and some convicted of espionage in the category of political prisoners. Currently, there is still much controversy and debate around how to define this term and which cases to include or exclude.\n\nPolitical prisoners can also be imprisoned with no legal veneer by extrajudicial processes. Some political prisoners need not be imprisoned at all. Supporters of Gedhun Choekyi Nyima in the 11th Panchen Lama controversy have called him a \"political prisoner\", despite the fact that he is not accused of a political offense. He is held under secluded house arrest.\n\nPolitical prisoners are also arrested and tried with a veneer of legality where false criminal charges, manufactured evidence, and unfair trials (kangaroo courts, show trials) are used to disguise the fact that an individual is a political prisoner. This is common in situations which may otherwise be decried nationally and internationally as a human rights violation or suppression of a political dissident. A political prisoner can also be someone that has been denied bail unfairly, denied parole when it would reasonably have been given to a prisoner charged with a comparable crime, or special powers may be invoked by the judiciary. Particularly in this latter situation, whether an individual is regarded as a political prisoner may depend upon subjective political perspective or interpretation of the evidence.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3784612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3784612", "title": "President of the Municipal Chamber", "text": "President of the Municipal Chamber\n\nPresident of the Municipal Chamber, or \"Presidente da Câmara Municipal\", in Portuguese, is the title of the Mayor, in Portugal and other Portuguese speaking countries. In Brazil, the title is \"Prefect\", or \"Prefeito\".\n"}
{"id": "812086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=812086", "title": "Research and Analysis Wing", "text": "Research and Analysis Wing\n\nThe Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW or RAW) (IAST: \"Anusaṃdhān Aur Viśleṣaṇ Viṃg\") is the foreign intelligence agency of India. It was established in 1968 following the intelligence failures of the Sino-Indian war, which persuaded the Government of India to create a specialised, independent agency dedicated to foreign intelligence gathering; previously, both domestic and foreign intelligence had been the purview of the Intelligence Bureau.\n\nDuring the nine-year tenure of its first Director, Rameshwar Nath Kao, R&AW quickly came to prominence in the global intelligence community, playing a role in major events such as the independence of Bangladesh and the accession of the state of Sikkim to India. The agency's primary function is gathering foreign intelligence, engaging in counter-terrorism, promoting counter-proliferation, advising Indian policymakers, and advancing India's foreign strategic interests. It is also involved in the security of India's nuclear programme. Many foreign analysts consider the R&AW to be an effective organisation and identify it as one of the primary instruments of India's national power.\n\nHeadquartered in New Delhi, R&AW's current chief is Anil Dhasmana. The head of RAW is designated Secretary (R) in the Cabinet Secretariat, and is under the direct command of the Prime Minister and reports on an administrative basis to the Cabinet Secretary of India, who reports to the Prime Minister.\n\nPrior to the inception of the Research and Analysis Wing, overseas intelligence collection was primarily the responsibility of the Intelligence Bureau (IB), which was created by the British. In 1933, sensing the political turmoil in the world which eventually led to the Second World War, the Intelligence Bureau's responsibilities were increased to include the collection of intelligence along India's borders.\n\nIn 1947, after independence, Sanjeevi Pillai took over as the first Indian Director of the IB. Having been depleted of trained manpower by the exit of the British, Pillai tried to run the bureau on MI5 lines. In 1949, Pillai organised a small foreign intelligence operation, but the Indian debacle in the Sino-Indian war of 1962 showed it to be ineffective. Foreign intelligence failure during the 1962 Sino-Indian War led then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to order a dedicated foreign intelligence agency to be established. After the Indo-Pakistani war of 1965, Indian Chief of Army Staff General Joyanto Nath Chaudhuri also called for more intelligence-gathering. Around the end of 1966 the concept of a separate foreign intelligence agency began to take concrete shape.\n\nThe Indira Gandhi administration decided that a full-fledged second security service was needed. R. N. Kao, then a deputy director of the Intelligence Bureau, submitted a blueprint for the new agency. Kao was appointed as the chief of India's first foreign intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing. The R&AW was given the responsibility for strategic external intelligence, human as well as technical, plus concurrent responsibility with the Directorate-General of Military Intelligence for tactical trans-border military intelligence up to a certain depth across the Line of control (LOC) and the international border.\nR&AW started as a wing of the main Intelligence Bureau with 250 employees and an annual budget of . In the early seventies, its annual budget had risen to while its personnel numbered several thousand. In 1971, Kao had persuaded the Government to set up the Aviation Research Centre (ARC). The ARC's job was aerial reconnaissance. It replaced the Indian Air Force's old reconnaissance aircraft and by the mid-1970s, R&AW, through the ARC, had high quality aerial pictures of the installations along the Chinese and Pakistani borders. Presently, the budget of R&AW is speculated to be as high as 450 million to as low as 100 million.\n\nSlowly other child agencies such as The Radio Research Center and Electronics & Tech. Services were added to R&AW in the 1970s and 1990s. In the 1970s the Special Frontier Force moved to R&AW's control, working to train Bengali rebels. In 1977, R&AW's operations and staff were dramatically cut under the Premiership of Morarji Desai, which hurt the organization's capabilities with the shutting of entire sections of R&AW, like its Information Division. These cuts were reduced following Gandhi's return.\n\nIn 2004 Government of India added yet another signal intelligence agency called the National Technical Facilities Organisation (NTFO), which was later renamed as National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO). While the exact nature of the operations conducted by NTRO is classified, it is believed that it deals with research on imagery and communications using various platforms.\n\nThe Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC), under the Cabinet Secretariat, is responsible for coordinating and analysing intelligence activities between R&AW, the Intelligence Bureau and the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA). In practice, however, the effectiveness of the JIC has been varied. With the establishment of the National Security Council in 1999, the role of the JIC has been merged with the NSC. R&AW's legal status is unusual, in that it is not an \"Agency\", but a \"Wing\" of the Cabinet Secretariat. Hence, R&AW is not answerable to the Parliament of India on any issue, which keeps it out of reach of the \"Right to Information Act\". This exemption was granted through Section 24 read with Schedule II of the act. However, information regarding the allegations of corruption and human rights violations has to be disclosed.\n\nThe present R&AW objectives include:\n\n\nIn the past, following the Sino-Indian war of 1962 and due to India's volatile relations with Pakistan, R&AW's objectives had also consisted the following:\n\nR&AW has been organised on the lines of the CIA. The head of R&AW is designated Secretary (R) in the Cabinet Secretariat. Most of the previous chiefs have been experts on either Pakistan or China. They also have the benefit of training in either the USA or the UK, and more recently in Israel. The Secretary (R), is under the direct command of Prime Minister, and reports on an administrative basis to the Cabinet Secretary, who reports to the Prime Minister. On a daily basis the Secretary (R) also reports to the National Security Adviser. Reporting to the Secretary (R) are:\nThe internal structure of the R&AW is a matter of speculation, but brief overviews of the same are present in the public domain. Attached to the Headquarters of R&AW at Lodhi Road, New Delhi are different regional headquarters, which have direct links to overseas stations and are headed by a controlling officer who keeps records of different projects assigned to field officers who are posted abroad. Intelligence is usually collected from a variety of sources by field officers and deputy field officers; it is either preprocessed by a senior field officer or by a desk officer. The desk officer then passes the information to the Joint Secretary and then on to the Additional Secretary and from there it is disseminated to the concerned end user. R&AW personnel are called \"Research Officers\" instead of the traditional \"agents\". There is a sizeable number of female officers in R&AW even at the operational level. In recent years, R&AW has shifted its primary focus from Pakistan to China and have started operating a separate desk for this purpose.\n\nMost of the Secretaries of Research and Analysis Wing have been Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. R. N. Kao and K. Sankaran Nair belonged to the Imperial Police (IP), of the British colonial days which was renamed as the Indian Police Service after Indian Independence in 1947. N. F. Suntook had served in the Indian Navy, then in the Indian Police Service and in the Indian Frontier Administration Service. Vikram Sood was from the Indian Postal Service (IPoS)and was later permanently absorbed in the RAS cadre. Now he acts as Advisor to Fair Observer. A. S. Dulat was an Indian Police Service officer deputed from the Intelligence Bureau, while K. C. Verma is an ex-Intelligence Bureau officer. All the chiefs have been experts on China or Pakistan except for Ashok Chaturvedi, who is an expert on Nepal.\n\n\nInitially, R&AW relied primarily on trained intelligence officers who were recruited directly. These belonged to the external wing of the Intelligence Bureau. In times of great expansion, many candidates were taken from the Indian Armed Forces, Police(IPS) and the Officers of Indian Revenue Service (IRS).Later, R&AW began directly recruiting graduates from universities. However owing to allegations of nepotism in appointments, in 1983 R&AW created its own service cadre, the Research and Analysis Service (RAS) to absorb talent from other Group A Civil Services, under the Central Staffing Scheme. Direct recruitment at Class I executive level is from Civil services officers undergoing Foundation course at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration. At the end of the course, R&AW conducts a campus interview. Based on a selection of psychological tests and the interview, candidates are inducted into R&AW for a lien period of one year. During this period, they have an option of rejoining their parent service (if they wish to) after which they can be permanently absorbed into the Research and Analysis Service. Delhi-based security think tank Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses noted in one of its reports that R&AW suffered from the 'tail-end syndrome' where the 'bottom of the entrance lists' of those qualifying the UPSC examinations were offered jobs. Additionally, recruitment is also by lateral deputation from the Officer corps of Armed Forces or Group A Civil Service Officers. The Civil and Defence Service Officers permanently resign their cadre and join the RAS. However, according to recent reports, officers can return to their parent cadre after serving a specific period in the agency if they wish to. Most of the secretaries have been officers from the IPS and other posts are held by IRS and IFS officers. R&AW also employs a number of linguists and other experts in various fields. The service conditions of R&AW officers are governed by the Research and Analysis Wing (Recruitment, Cadre and Service) Rules, 1975.\n\nBasic training commences with 'pep talks' to boost the morale of the new recruit. This is a ten-day phase in which the inductee is familiarised with the real world of intelligence and espionage, as opposed to the spies of fiction. Common usages, tradecraft techniques and classification of information are taught. Financial and economic analysis, Space Technology, Information Security, Energy Security and Scientific knowledge is imbibed to the trainees. The recruit is made to specialise in a foreign language and introduced to Geo strategic analysis. Case studies of other agencies like CIA, KGB, ISI, Mossad and MI6 are presented for study. The inductee is also taught that intelligence organisations do not identify who is friend and who is foe, the country's foreign policy does. Basic classroom training in tactics and language are imparted to R&AW officers at the residential Training and Language Institute in Gurgaon. A multi-disciplinary school of economic intelligence is also being set up in Mumbai to train intelligence officers in investigating economic crimes like money laundering for terror purposes etc.\nAfter completing 'Basic Training' the recruit is now attached to a Field Intelligence Bureau (FIB). His/her training here lasts for 1–2 years. He/she is given firsthand experience of what it was to be out in the figurative cold, conducting clandestine operations. During night exercises under realistic conditions, he/she is taught infiltration and exfiltration. He/she is instructed to avoid capture and if caught, how to face interrogation. He/she learns the art of reconnoitre, making contacts, and, the numerous skills of operating an intelligence mission. At the end of the field training, the new recruit is brought back to the school for final polishing. Before his deployment in the field, he/she is given exhaustive training in the art of self-defence mainly Krav Maga, and the use of technical espionage devices. He/she is also drilled in various administrative disciplines so that he could take his place in the foreign missions without arousing suspicion. He/she is now ready to operate under the cover of an Embassy to gather information, set up his own network of informers, moles or operatives as the task may require. Field training is provided in the Indian Military Academy Headquarters at Dehradun. The training model has been criticised as being 'archaic and too police-centric' and not incorporating 'modern technological advances in methods of communication' etc.\n\nActivities and functions of R&AW are highly confidential and declassification of past operations are uncommon unlike agencies like CIA, MI6 and Mossad who have many of their activities declassified. The Secretary (R) reported to the Vohra Committee that R&AW offices abroad have limited strength and are largely geared to the collection of military, economic, scientific, and political intelligence. R&AW monitors the activities of certain organisations abroad only insofar as they relate to their involvement with narco terrorist elements and smuggling arms, ammunition, explosives, etc. into India. It does not monitor the activities of criminal elements abroad, which are mainly confined to normal smuggling without any links to terrorist elements. However, if there is evidence to suggest that certain organisations have links with Intelligence agencies of other countries, and that they are being used or are likely to be used by such countries for destabilising India's economy, it would become R&AW's responsibility to monitor their activities.\n\nThe primary mission of R&AW includes aggressive intelligence collection via espionage, psychological warfare, subversion, sabotage, and assassinations. R&AW maintains active collaboration with other secret services in various countries. Its contacts with FSB of Russia, NDS, the Afghan agency, Israel's Mossad, the CIA and MI6 have been well-known, a common interest being Pakistan's nuclear programme. R&AW has been active in obtaining information and operating through third countries like Afghanistan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Myanmar and Singapore.\n\nR&AW obtains information critical to Indian strategic interests both by overt and covert means. The data is then classified and filed with the assistance of the computer networks. International business houses, information technology sector and media centres can easily absorb R&AW operatives and provide freedom of movement. A task force report prepared by a New Delhi-based security think tank highlighted that R&AW operatives have inadequate non-official cover for overseas operations which 'limits access to spot real targets' and causes issues on handling 'high-value assets'.\n\n\n\nFrom its inception R&AW has been criticised for being an agency not answerable to the people of India (R&AW reports to Prime Minister only). Fears arose that it could turn into the KGB of India. Such fears were kept at bay by the R&AW's able leadership (although detractors of R&AW and especially the Janata Party have accused the agency of letting itself be used for terrorising and intimidating opposition during the 1975–1977 Emergency). The main controversy which has plagued R&AW in recent years is over bureaucratisation of the system with allegations about favouritism in promotions, corruption, ego clashes, no financial accountability, inter-departmental rivalry, etc. R&AW also suffers from ethnic imbalances in the officer level. Noted security analyst and former Additional Secretary B. Raman has criticised the agency for its asymmetric growth; \"while being strong in its capability for covert action it is weak in its capability for intelligence collection, analysis and assessment. Strong in low and medium-grade intelligence, weak in high-grade intelligence. Strong in technical intelligence, weak in human intelligence. Strong in collation, weak in analysis. Strong in investigation, weak in prevention. Strong in crisis management, weak in crisis prevention.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nUnlike in the Western cultural sphere, which has portrayed its foreign intelligence agencies (such as the CIA and MI6) in different media forms, Indian authors and actors have been shy to explore the area of espionage, especially R&AW, until the 1990s. Unlike CBI, the federal investigative agency of India, whose existence is known to the majority of people, R&AW receives little to no attention from the populace, which seems to be unaware of the existence of such an organisation or even India's internal intelligence agency, the Intelligence Bureau (IB). Excessive secrecy surrounding activities and rare declassification of the information are considered to be the major reasons behind this.\n\nNevertheless, there were films which refer to 'agents', 'espionage' etc. like \"Aankhen\" (1968, Ramanand Sagar Production, starring Dharmendra, Mala Sinha), \"Prem Pujari\" starring Dev Anand in 1970, \"Hindustan Ki Kasam\" (starring Raaj Kumar, Priya Rajvansh in 1973) and \"Highway\" (starring Suresh Gopi, Bhanupriya). However, since the late 1990s and early 2000 the following Bollywood and other regional films have openly mentioning R&AW and its allied units, with the intelligence agencies at the centre of the plot.\n\nThe thriving entertainment channels in India have started to tap into the theme of Intelligence agencies. \"2612\" which used to air on Life OK, featured Cabir Maira as a R&AW agent Anand Swami who helps a STF officer Randeep Rathore to save the country from a terrorist attack. \"Time Bomb 9/11\", a series aired on Zee TV, featured Rajeev Khandelwal in the role of a R&AW field officer who attempts to defuse a nuclear bomb set in India, as well as saving the life of the Indian prime minister. Zee Bangla featured a serial named \"Mohona\" where the chief protagonist is a R&AW officer. \"Sajda Tere Pyar Mein\" a series on Star Plus, features Shaleen Bhanot in the role of a R&AW officer who asks a young woman named Aliya for help in catching a spy named Mahendra Pratap. The Indian version of \"24\" has a host of characters affiliated to R&AW. The 2018 webseries \"Sacred Games\" has a RAW agent played by Radhika Apte.\n\nSome academic commentators have linked the increasing surfeit of Indian films and TV series on espionage thriller genre, where an Indian hero staves off impending global catastrophe, as a marker of an aspirational \"Pax Indica\" not based on 'older paradigms of internationalism based on universal brotherhood and non-violent pacifism associated with Gandhi and Nehru' but on the motif of an increasingly assertive potential superpower.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262392", "title": "Situationist Times", "text": "Situationist Times\n\nThe Situationist Times ran to six issues edited and published by Jacqueline de Jong between May 1962 and December 1964 in Hengelo (Netherlands), Copenhagen and Paris, in editions of between 1,000-2,000.\n\nContributors include: Theo Wolvecamp, de Jong, Armando, Vanderkamm, Gruppe SPUR, de Boer, Edle Hansen, Singer, Gordon Fazarkely, Max Bucaille, G. Hay, Asger Jorn, P. Schat, Noël Arnaud, Pierre Alechinsky, Boris Vian, and many others.\n\nThis issue is the \"International British Edition\", dedicated to \"The Typology of Knots\".\n\nThis issue deals with labyrinths;\n\nThis issues deals with the Ring, the interlaced ring and consequently the Chain.\n"}
{"id": "239292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239292", "title": "Social Democratic Party of Switzerland", "text": "Social Democratic Party of Switzerland\n\nThe Social Democratic Party of Switzerland (also rendered as Swiss Socialist Party; ; ; ; ) is a political party in Switzerland. It has been represented by two Federal Councilors since 1960 and got the second-most votes in the 2015 national elections.\n\nThe party was founded on 21 October 1888, and is currently the second largest of the four leading coalition political parties in Switzerland. It is the only left-wing party with representatives in the Swiss Federal Council. It is also the second largest political party in the Swiss parliament. The current members in the Swiss Federal Council are Alain Berset and Simonetta Sommaruga.\n\nThe SP is the largest pro-European party in Switzerland and supports Swiss membership of the European Union, unlike most other Swiss parties. Additionally, it is strongly opposed to capitalism and maintains a long-term goal of \"overcoming capitalism.\" The party is a member of the Progressive Alliance, and an associate member of the Party of European Socialists.\n\nWith its foundation in October 1888, the Social Democratic Party was considered to be the main opposition to the Radicals in government and parliament. After the unsuccessful general strike in 1918, proportional representation was introduced which helped the SP gain 41 seats in parliament. The party was a member of the Labour and Socialist International between 1927 and 1940. After the strike the party took a softer line and in 1943 it became the strongest party in parliament, finally gaining a seat in the Federal Council. It picked up a second seat in 1959. The party's historical archives is today hosted by the Swiss Social Archives.\n\nThe SP supports classical social democratic policies. To that rule, the SP stands for a government offering strong public services. The SP is against far-reaching economic liberalism, in favor of social progressivism, environmental policy with climate change mitigation, for an open foreign policy, and a national security policy based on pacifism.\n\nIn economic, financial, and social welfare policy, the SP rejects policies of economic liberalization such as deregulation, lowering taxes for high-income citizens, and decreases in government spending on social insurance. The SP also opposes raising the retirement age. In addition, the SP is a proponent of increasing welfare spending in some areas such as for a publicly financed maternity leave, universal health care and a flexible retirement age. In tax policy the SP opposes the notion of lowering taxes for high-income citizens. By campaigning for the harmonisation of all tax rates in Switzerland, the SP seeks more redistribution. The SP is skeptical toward the privatization of state enterprises. Nonetheless, the SP also promotes more competition in the areas of agriculture and parallel imports.\n\nIn social policy, the SP is committed to social equity and an open society. Thus, the SP aims at making working conditions for women in families easier by promoting more external childcare centers and more opportunities for part-time jobs. It also aims at reinforcing sexual equality in terms of eliminating wage differences based on gender, supports civil union for homosexuals and takes an easier stance toward abortions. The SP also rejects strengthening restrictions on asylum seekers and immigrants. Thus, it supports the integration of immigrants by which the immigrants are assigned to immigration procedures immediately after entering the country. The SP has a liberal stance toward drugs and is in favor of publicly regulated heroin consumption and the legalization of cannabis. Nevertheless, the SP supports the smoking ban in restaurants and bars.\n\nIn foreign policy the SP promotes further participation by Switzerland in international organizations. It supports immediate entry of Switzerland into the European Union. The SP also stands for a less strict neutrality of Switzerland, and supports increased international efforts on the part of Switzerland in the areas of peace and human rights. However, the SP supports keeping the military neutrality and opposes entry into NATO. Its pacifist stance is also reflected in its military policy: The SP supports reducing the number of Swiss militia while making the military apparatus more professional and scrapping conscription. Another demand of the SP is to end the tradition of gun ownership, using severe and recent examples of abuse in terms of murder as proof.\n\nTogether with the Green Party of Switzerland, the Social Democrats have common environmentalist policies, which are reflected in the expansion of ecotax reforms and increased state support for energy saving measures and renewable energies. The SP is against the construction of new roads where possible and instead proposes to shift the transportation of goods from the roads to the railways and the introduction of a cap and trade and traffic management system when it comes to transportation across the Swiss Alps. Furthermore, the SP stands for an expansion of the public transportation system network and opposes nuclear energy.\n\nIn 2003, it held 52 mandates (out of 200) in the Swiss National Council (first chamber of the Swiss parliament); 9 (out of 46) in the second chamber and 2 out of 7 mandates in the Swiss Federal Council (executive body). By 2005, it held 23.8% of the seats in the Swiss Cantonal governments and 23.2% in the Swiss Cantonal parliaments (index \"BADAC\", weighted with the population and number of seats). At the latest legislative elections on 18 October 2015, the party won 18.8% of the popular vote and 43 out of 200 seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "848305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=848305", "title": "Social Liberal Party (Brazil)", "text": "Social Liberal Party (Brazil)\n\nThe Social Liberal Party (, PSL) is a right-wing conservative political party in Brazil. Founded in 1994 as a social liberal party, the PSL was registered on the Superior Electoral Court in 1998.\n\nIn January 2018, former Social Christian politician Jair Bolsonaro joined the party and later converted it into an economic liberal and social conservative party. The original name is intact for the time being after Livres (the party's original main wing) left the party and formed their own political movement to continue the party's original goals. Bolsonaro became the party's nominee for the 2018 presidential election and won in both rounds.\n\nPSL was originally founded on 30 October 1994 by businessman Luciano Bivar as a social liberal party. It was registered on the Superior Electoral Court on 2 June 1998.\n\nIn the 2002 legislative elections, PSL won 1 out of 513 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and no seats in the Federal Senate. In the 2006 legislative elections, the party won no seats in the Chamber of Deputies or the Federal Senate. In the 2010 legislative elections, PSL won 1 seat in the Chamber of Deputies and no seats in the Federal Senate, maintaining the same results in the 2014 legislative elections.\n\nIn 2015, PSL underwent a reform led by the internal social liberal wing Livres, with names such as political scientist and journalist Leandro Narloch reinforcing the party's affiliation with social liberal policies. PSL also supported the impeachment of ex-president Dilma Rousseff.\n\nOn 5 January 2018, conservative and former Social Christian politician Jair Bolsonaro became a member of the party, which prompted the Livres wing to leave the party in protest of Bolsonaro's social conservative views. After the exit of Livres, the party followed a national conservative path, changed its colors from purple to the more nationalist blue, yellow and green (the colors of Brazil’s flag) and since then has discussed a name change either to Republicans (\"Republicanos\") or Mobilize (\"Mobiliza\"). On 5 March 2018, Bivar stepped down from party’s presidency and Gustavo Bebianno was appointed as acting president.\n\nBolsonaro eventually became PSL’s nominee for the 2018 presidential election, exceeding polling forecasts to receive 46% of the popular vote in the first round. Bolsonaro's coattails helped elect 52 deputies and 4 senators from PSL, which will make it the second largest political party in the next Chamber of Deputies. It also became the largest single party in the legislative assemblies of both Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. On 28 October 2018, Bolsonaro was elected President with 55,13% of the votes, defeating Workers' Party's Fernando Haddad. He will take office on 1 January 2019.\n\nOn 29 October 2018, Bivar was re-appointed as party’s president.\n\nSince Bolsonaro's entrance in the party, PSL has changed much of its ideologies, abandoning its former socially liberal policies and keeping its economic liberal policies, supporting privatisation and decentralisation while at the same time adopting socially conservative policies regarding abortion, legalization of marijuana and teaching of gender identity in schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "42030017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42030017", "title": "Social justice art", "text": "Social justice art\n\nSocial justice art, and arts for social justice, encompasses a wide range of visual and performing art that aim to raise critical consciousness, build community, and motivate individuals to promote social change. Art has been used as a means to record history, shape culture, cultivate imagination, and harness individual and social transformation. It can not only be a means to generate awareness, but it can also be a catalyst to engage community members to take action around a social issue. Social justice art consequently allows people to develop agency to interrupt and alter oppressive systemic patterns or individual behaviors. The processes by which people create and engage with art equips them with analytic tools to understand and challenge social injustices through social justice education (teaching for social justice), community building, and social activism/social movements. Examples of visual and performing social justice art includes: drawing, painting, sculpture, murals, graffiti, film, theater, music, dance, spoken word, etc. \n\nArt has played a role in social justice education, community building, and social activism/social movements. It provides a universal language that gives voice to individuals and communities and is accessible across social boundaries. These examples can overlap and are not strictly confined to one specific category.\n\nTwo well-known art movements that have utilized art as a means to work towards social justice are the Black Arts Movement and Chicano art movement. Both movements began to enter into public consciousness during the 1960s. The Civil Rights Movement in combination with the Black Power Movement helped to propel the Black Arts Movement. One of the main goals of this movement was to support Black Nationalism and mobilize the community towards social action. This period produced an increase in Black poetry, literature, and music. A few key figures of the movement were; author Marcus Garvey, author and artist Charles S. Johnson, revolutionary artist Emory Douglas, and social dancer and choreographer Katrina Hazzard-Gordon. The efforts to incorporate post-Mexican Revolution notions with current Mexican American social, political, and cultural issues drove the Chicana/Chicano Arts Movement. Murals are a form of visual art that experienced a rise in popularity during this movement. Chicana/Chicano mural art became a means of working towards political goals, challenging stereotypes, as well as a way for community members to play an active role in creating community memoirs. Diego Rivera was one prominent figure who helped to establish Mexican muralism. \n\nAn educational approach that focuses on fostering awareness of social injustices and how inequalities impact youth. Social justice education saw its roots in the ideas of Paulo Freire, author of Pedagogy of the Oppressed. In his work, Freire highlights the theoretical ideas of critical pedagogy, which is an approach that combines education and critical theory. This approach is relevant to social justice art education because it combines the critique of social injustices and the use of art as a mechanism to engage with social issues.\n\nCulturally relevant arts education (CRAE) is an education model that emerged from Tubman Theater Project. The theater project is a culturally relevant drama program in which African American middle and high school students examine their internalized oppression and work to create positive racial identities. The program gives them the opportunity to learn from rehearsing and performing plays based on their lived experiences. This framework incorporates six different pedagogies. Three of these are art related; arts production, aesthetics, and arts integration as well as three non-art related; multicultural education, critical pedagogy, and contextual teaching and learning. CRAE engages both students and educators in a process in which they reflect on their social position in societal liberation and subjugation.\n\nUniversities have employed social justice art education models within the art department.\n\nSense of community is built through bridging geographic or interest-driven relationships. Building community helps individuals come together to challenge inner oppressive dynamics that have been imposed by institutions, structures and bodies. These inner oppressive dynamics have been termed “social ghosts” have been referenced in dance literature and function as a key theme within many community building art projects. Art for community building is a collective effort in which the art making process strengthens community ties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15410571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15410571", "title": "Spaak method", "text": "Spaak method\n\nThe Spaak method of negotiation is named after Paul-Henri Spaak, a Belgian politician, who applied this method at the Intergovernmental Conference on the Common Market and Euratom in 1956 at Val Duchesse castle in preparing for the Treaties of Rome in 1957.\n\nDuring the negotiations leading to the conference at Val Duchesse, most of the real negotiations took place prior to the actual Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) within the Spaak Committee that was charged with setting the agenda for the Val Duchesse conference. The final report of the committee then formed the basis for the final treaty which was then approved in Rome. Within this negotiating method, the preparatory committee has a strong initiating and brokerage role in the phase preceding the conference, while the actual Intergovernmental Conference only deals with negotiating small changes in the original agenda prepared by the preparatory committee.\n\nThis method was also applied to the preparation of the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) by the Delors Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70855", "title": "Stadtholder", "text": "Stadtholder\n\nIn the Low Countries, stadtholder (, ) was an office of steward, designated a medieval official and then a national leader. The stadtholder was the replacement of the duke or earl of a province during the Burgundian and Habsburg period (1384 - 1581/1795).\n\nThe title was used for the official tasked with maintaining peace and provincial order in the early Dutch Republic and, at times, became \"de facto\" head of state of the Dutch Republic during the 16th to 18th centuries, which was an effectively hereditary role. For the last half century of its existence, it became an officially hereditary role and thus a monarchy (though maintaining republican pretence) under Prince William IV. His son, Prince William V, was the last \"stadtholder\" of the republic, whose own son, King William I, became the first king of the Netherlands. The Dutch monarchy is only distantly related to the first \"stadtholder\" of the young Republic, William of Orange, the leader of the successful Dutch Revolt against the Spanish Empire, his line having died out with William III.\n\nThe title \"stadtholder\" is roughly comparable to England's historic title Lord Lieutenant.\n\n\"Stadtholder\" means \"steward\". Its component parts literally translate as \"place holder,\" or as a direct cognate, \"stead holder\" (in modern Dutch \"stad\" means \"city\", but the older meaning of \"stad\" - also \"stede\" - was \"place\", and it is a cognate of English \"stead\", as \"in stead of\"), it was a term for a \"steward\" or \"lieutenant\". Note, however, that is not the word for the military rank of lieutenant, which is \"luitenant\" in Dutch.\n\n\"Stadtholder\"s in the Middle Ages were appointed by feudal lords to represent them in their absence. If a lord had several dominions (or, being a vassal, fiefs), some of these could be ruled by a permanent \"stadtholder\", to whom was delegated the full authority of the lord. A \"stadtholder\" was thus more powerful than a governor, who had only limited authority, but the stadtholder was not a vassal himself, having no title to the land. The local rulers of the independent provinces of the Low Countries (which included the present-day Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg) made extensive use of \"stadtholder\"s, e.g. the Duke of Guelders appointed a \"stadtholder\" to represent him in Groningen.\n\nIn the 15th century the Dukes of Burgundy acquired most of the Low Countries, and these Burgundian Netherlands mostly each had their own \"stadtholder\".\n\nIn the 16th century, the Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, also King of Spain, who had inherited the Burgundian Netherlands, completed this process by becoming the sole feudal overlord: Lord of the Netherlands. Only the Prince-Bishopric of Liège and two smaller territories (the Imperial Abbey of Stavelot-Malmedy and the Duchy of Bouillon) remained outside his domains. \"Stadtholder\"s continued to be appointed to represent Charles and King Philip II, his son and successor in Spain and the Low Countries (the electoral Imperial title would be held by heirs of Charles in the separate Austrian branch of Habsburgs). Due to the centralist and absolutist policies of Philip, the actual power of the \"stadtholder\"s strongly diminished.\n\nWhen, in 1581, during the Dutch Revolt, most of the Dutch provinces declared their independence with the Act of Abjuration, the representative function of the \"stadtholder\" became obsolete in the rebellious northern Netherlands – the feudal lord himself having been abolished – but the office nevertheless continued in these provinces who now united themselves into the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands. The United Provinces were struggling to adapt existing feudal concepts and institutions to the new situation and tended to be conservative in this matter, as they had after all rebelled against the king to defend their ancient rights. The \"stadtholder\" no longer represented the lord but became the highest executive official, appointed by the states of each province. Although each province could assign its own \"stadtholder\", most \"stadtholder\"s held appointments from several provinces at the same time. The highest executive power was normally exerted by the sovereign states of each province, but the stadtholder had some prerogatives, like appointing lower officials and sometimes having the ancient right to affirm the appointment (by co-option) of the members of regent councils or choose \"burgomasters\" from a shortlist of candidates. As these councils themselves appointed most members of the states, the \"stadtholder\" could very indirectly influence the general policy. In Zeeland the Princes of Orange, who after the Dutch Revolt most often held the office of \"stadtholder\" there, held the dignity of \"First Noble\", and were as such a member of the states of that province, because they held the title of Marquis of Veere and Flushing as one of their patrimonial titles.\n\nOn the Republic's central 'confederal' level, the \"stadtholder\" of the provinces of Holland and Zealand was normally also appointed Captain-General of the confederate army and Admiral-General of the confederate fleet, though no \"stadtholder\" ever actually commanded a fleet in battle. In the army, he could appoint officers by himself; in the navy only affirm appointments of the five admiralty councils. Legal powers of the stadtholder were thus rather limited, and by law he was a mere official. His real powers, however, were sometimes greater, especially given the martial law atmosphere of the 'permanent' Eighty Years War. Maurice of Orange after 1618 ruled as a military dictator, and William II of Orange attempted the same.\n\nThe leader of the Dutch Revolt was William the Silent (William I of Orange); he had been appointed \"stadtholder\" in 1572 by the first province to rebel, Holland. His personal influence and reputation was subsequently associated with the office and transferred to members of his house. Maurice in 1618 and William III of Orange from 1672 replaced entire city councils with their partisans to increase their power: the so-called \"Changings of the Legislative\" (\"Wetsverzettingen\"). By intimidation, the \"stadtholder\"s tried to extend their right of affirmation. In reaction, the regents in Holland, Zeeland, Utrecht, Guelders, and Overijssel, after the death of William II in 1650, appointed no \"stadtholder\". They subsequently were forced to appoint one by the catastrophic events of 1672, the Dutch Year of Disaster (\"Rampjaar\"). After the death of William III in 1702 they again abstained from appointing one. These periods are known as the First Stadtholderless Period and the Second Stadtholderless Period.\n\nAfter the French invasion of 1747, the regents were forced by a popular movement to accept William IV, Prince of Orange, stadtholder of Friesland and Groningen, as stadtholder in the other provinces. On 22 November 1747, the office of \"stadtholder\" was made hereditary (\"erfstadhouder\"). As William (for the first time in the history of the Republic) was \"stadtholder\" in all provinces, his function accordingly was restyled \"Stadhouder-Generaal\".\n\nAfter William IV's death in 1751, his infant son was duly appointed \"stadtholder\" under the regency of his mother. The misgovernment of this regency caused much resentment, which issued in 1780 in the Patriot movement. The Patriots first took over many city councils, then the States of the province of Holland, and ultimately raised civil militias to defend their position against Orangist partisans, bringing the country to the brink of civil war. Through Prussian military intervention in 1787, Prince William V of Orange was able to suppress this opposition, and many leaders of the Patriot movement went into exile in France. The stadtholderate was strengthened with the Act of Guarantee (1788).\n\nThe exiles returned with French armies in the winter of 1795 and overcame the frozen Dutch Water Line. William V of Orange-Nassau fled to England, and the office of stadtholder was abolished in 1795 when the French revolutionary forces installed the Batavian Republic. From 1572 in the Southern Netherlands the Habsburg lords continued to appoint provincial stadtholders for the region, until it was annexed by France in 1794. However, William I, the son of the last stadtholder William V, was crowned king after the French army retreated in 1815.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34965223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34965223", "title": "Subsistence Homesteads Division", "text": "Subsistence Homesteads Division\n\nThe Subsistence Homesteads Division of the US Department of the Interior (DSH or SHD) was a New Deal agency that was intended to give safe residences to urban poor in small plots of land that would allow them to sustain themselves. Unlike subsistence farming, subsistence homesteading is based on a family member or members having part-time, paid employment.\n\nThe Subsistence Homesteads Division Director, Milburn L. Wilson, defined a \"subsistence homestead\" as follows:\n\nA subsistence homestead denotes a house and out buildings located upon a plot of land on which can be grown a large portion of foodstuffs required by the homestead family. It signifies production for home consumption and not for commercial sale. In that it provides for subsistence alone, it carries with it the corollary that cash income must be drawn from some outside source. The central motive of the subsistence homestead program, therefore, is to demonstrate the economic value of a livelihood which combines part-time wage work and part-time gardening or farming. \nDSH projects \"would be initiated at the state level and administered through a nonprofit corporation. Successful applicants would offer a combination of part-time employment opportunities, fertile soil for part-time farming, and locations connected to the services of established cities.\"\n\nThe Subsistence Homesteading Program was based on an agrarian, \"back-to-the-land\" philosophy which meant a partial return to the simpler, farming life of the past. Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt both endorsed the idea that for poor people, rural life could be healthier than city life.\n\nCooperation, community socialization, and community work were also emphasized. However, going \"back-to-the-land\" did not always sit well with people stuck in outlying \"stranded communities\" without jobs. According to Liz Straw of the Tennessee Historical Commission, the most controversial were those rural communities of long-unemployed miners or timber workers whom opponents of subsistence homesteading thought unlikely to thrive without better job opportunities.\n\nCarl Cleveland Taylor, the 36th President of the American Sociological Society, served as a sociologist for the SHD.\n\nSome of the subsistence homesteading communities included African Americans. DSH Assistant Supervisor John P. Murchison wrote to W. E. B. Du Bois in April 1934 for advice on racial integration and how to incorporate African Americans into the program. Eleanor Roosevelt took a personal interest in the project, and became involved in setting up the first community, Arthurdale, WV after a visit to the stranded miners of Scotts Run.\n\nThere was strong opposition to the idea of subsistence homesteads, as undercutting agricultural prices, unions, and the labor supply for manufacturing. Nonetheless, as of 2011, some communities, such as Arthurdale, West Virginia, in which Eleanor Roosevelt was personally involved, maintain an active memory of the program.\n\nCommunities planned and built:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49531963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49531963", "title": "The Liberal Politics Of Adolf Hitler", "text": "The Liberal Politics Of Adolf Hitler\n\nThe Liberal Politics Of Adolf Hitler is a novel by the author John King, published in 2016. Three essays led into its release – \"The left wing case for leaving the EU\" and \"Flying The Flag\" (\"both in New Statesman\"), and \"The People Versus The Elite\" (Penguin). A supporter of British withdrawal from the European Union, King appeared on BBC Radio 4's \"Any Questions\" at this time, along with the author Frederick Forsyth.\n\n\"The Liberal Politics Of Adolf Hitler\" is set approximately 50 years into the future, when a European superstate has been formed and the individual countries of Europe officially dissolved. Power is centralised in the hands of a corporate-driven elite based in Brussels and Berlin. Controllers describe this masked dictatorship as New Democracy. Elections are a thing of the past and the cultures of the old nation states are recycled in distorted ways. Across Europe, people fight back, with the two main British resistance groups being GB45 and Conflict.\n\nThe novel looks at globalization, the nature of democracy, the manipulation of language and the future uses of technology. There is also an animal-rights thread to the story which, in an interview with \"3am Magazine\", the author linked to his next novel, \"Slaughterhouse Prayer\".\n\nTrade Unionists Against The EU called the book: \"Brave, imaginative fiction. An important political novel that is supremely relevant to our turbulent times.\" 3AM Magazine: \"A timely and provocative satire.\" Marc Glendening of The Democracy Movement: \"One of the most bizarre and wonderful things I have read. It has the dreamlike quality of a David Lynch movie. A cross between \"Brave New World\", \"A Clockwork Orange\" and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\" Garry Bushell: \"A great read set in a dystopian future.\" \"Streets Sounds\": \"\"Blade Runner\" meets The Clash. Punk fiction at its very best.\" \"The Morning Star\": \"King steadily constructs, layer by layer, an increasingly believable world where a combination of intrusive technology, ruthlessness and effectively bland public relations has ensured the domination of the majority’s thoughts and actions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20086888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086888", "title": "There you go again", "text": "There you go again\n\n\"There you go again\" was a phrase spoken during the 1980 United States presidential election debate by Republican presidential candidate Governor Ronald Reagan to his Democratic opponent, incumbent President Jimmy Carter. Reagan would use the line in a few debates over the years, always in a way intended to disarm his opponent.\n\n\"There you go again\" emerged as a defining phrase of the 1980 presidential election. The phrase has endured in the political lexicon in news headlines, as a way to quickly imply that an opponent is engaged in hyperbole or even hysterical comments.\n\nThe one debate between Reagan and Carter of the 1980 presidential election year was held a week before Election Day by the League of Women Voters. At one point, Carter went on the offensive against Reagan's record regarding Medicare.\n\nAn Associated Press article from 2008 stated:\n\nReagan was a master at capturing a debate moment that everyone will remember. His 'there you go again' line defused his opponent's attack.\n\nReagan sometimes used the phrase during his presidential press conferences.\n\nDuring the 2006 Connecticut Democratic senate primary debate, Incumbent Senator Joe Lieberman used the line a number of times against his primary challenger Ned Lamont. During the 2008 vice-presidential debate, Republican vice-presidential nominee, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, used the line on Democratic opponent Joe Biden. Both Lieberman and Palin lost those races; however, Lieberman went on to defeat Lamont in the general election running as an independent.\n\nDuring the 2012 presidential election, former President Bill Clinton paraphrased the line after criticizing the policies of the Republican platform by saying 'There they go again'.\n\nDuring the 2016 vice presidential debates, Republican Vice Presidential nominee Mike Pence used the line \"There they go again\" in responding to Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Tim Kaine's statement that Pence was a \"chief cheerleader for the privatization of social security.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3104905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104905", "title": "Timeline of the 2005 French riots", "text": "Timeline of the 2005 French riots\n\nThe following is a timeline of the 2005 French riots that began Thursday, October 27, 2005. Where the source lists events as occurring in a night and following morning, this article lists them on the date of the night, not the following morning. The extent table in the main article does the opposite.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37470540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37470540", "title": "Together (Hungary)", "text": "Together (Hungary)\n\nTogether (), officially Together – Party for a New Era (), formerly also known as Together 2014 (), was a socially liberal political party in Hungary, formed on 26 October 2012 for the 2014 Hungarian parliamentary election by Gordon Bajnai, the former Prime Minister of Hungary, to contrast Viktor Orbán's government. Together was founded as a coalition of left-wing and liberal political movements and civil organizations, which transformed itself into a party in March 2013.\n\nThe party had formed an electoral alliance with the Dialogue for Hungary (PM) and they won together four seats in the national assembly and one seat in the European Parliament in 2014. The Together dissolved after its poor performance in the 2018 parliamentary election.\n\nDuring its foundation, the coalition consisted of three civil society organizations:\n\nGordon Bajnai announced his return to politics on 23 October 2012, during the anti-government demonstration of the One Million for Press Freedom (Milla). On the protest, he called for an anti-Orbán coalition so as to form a supermajority in Parliament with the help of which the changes done by Orbán's ruling party, Fidesz could be undone.\n\nIn his speech, Bajnai repeatedly used a variant of the term (\"We may fail on our own, but together, we shall prove victorious!\"), when he proclaimed his support for such a \"cooperation between hopeful left-wingers, disappointed rightwingers, politically abandoned free-thinkers and committed Greens\" that his organization along with two other civilian body named Together 2014 as a reference to the date of the next general elections in Hungary. In December 2012, Bajnai announced that he intends to be a parliamentarian candidate in the 2014 general election.\n\nAccording to plans, Together 2014 would have been an umbrella organization of centre-left parties, similar to the Olive Tree in Italy which established against Silvio Berlusconi's right-wing coalition in 1995. However Politics Can Be Different (LMP) had rejected the cooperation in November 2012 and January 2013, and the Hungarian Socialist Party led by Attila Mesterházy gradually took over the initiative.\n\nThe Together movement transformed itself into party on 8 March 2013, as only parties could take part in the election according to the rules. Three co-presidents were elected: Viktor Szigetvári (Patriotism and Progress Association), Péter Kónya (Solidarity) and Péter Juhász (Milla). The party was registered as \"Together – Party for a New Era\" because several other organizations overtaken the name \"Together 2014\" at the National Election Office.\n\nOn 14 January 2014, five opposition parties, including Together, entered into a coalition and formed Unity alliance. Contrary to his earlier plans, Bajnai could not reach to become joint Prime Minister candidate of the left-wing opposition since Attila Mesterházy (MSZP) was appointed to that position. The Unity suffered a heavy defeat and Together won only three mandates within the alliance and was unable to form a parliamentary group. The Together–Dialogue for Hungary alliance received 7.25% of the votes in the 2014 European Parliament election and gained one seat (Benedek Jávor, co-leader of the Dialogue for Hungary).\n\nFollowing the retirement of Gordon Bajnai in September 2014, Viktor Szigetvári became the only key leader of the party. He was elected sole president in February 2015, against Levente Pápa.\n\nOn 24 September 2016, the delegate assembly decided to participate in the next parliamentary election with a separate national list. Together also announced its intention of selection of joint opposition individual candidates through primaries in each constituencies.\n\nOn 4 February 2017, Péter Juhász was elected as the party's new leader. On the same day, Balázs Berkecz and Nóra Hajdú were elected as vice-presidents, and Viktor Szigetvári as the leader of the party's National Political Council (the board of the party). Since March, Juhász urged the election cooperation of those \"democratic opposition parties\", which refuse both the Orbán regime and the former governing left-wing parties, who represent the \"world before 2010\". Juhász called his concept as \"New Pole\" (\"Új Pólus\"), with the possible participation of the Politics Can Be Different (LMP), the Dialogue for Hungary (PM), the Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party (MKKP) and the Momentum Movement, in addition to his party. With that statement, Juhász refused the cooperation with the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP), the Democratic Coalition (DK) and the Hungarian Liberal Party (MLP). According to a Medián opinion poll published in July 2017, this hypothetical alliance would receive 16 percent of the vote in the next election. While the Together and the PM renewed their alliance in accordance with Juhász's \"New Pole\" concept on 4 October 2017, both LMP and Momentum Movement had rejected the election cooperation with other parties.\n\nOn 23 June 2017, MP Zsuzsanna Szelényi announced that she resigned from her position in the party leadership and quit Together, after losing the election for the party leadership in February against Péter Juhász. She also disagreed with the new direction and method of politics, installed by Juhász and criticized the new president's guerrilla campaign methods and media PR campaigns and \"ostentatious performances\". She also said that she would retain her parliamentary mandate.\n\nIn January 2018, leaders of the party announced that Together will participate in the 2018 national election separately. Former president Viktor Szigetvári was nominated the party's candidate for the position of prime minister. The party failed to reach 5% electoral threshold, receiving 0.66 percent of the vote, albeit an individual candidate Szabolcs Szabó obtained a mandate, becoming his party's only MP. Subsequently, Szabó joined the LMP parliamentary group. According to the laws, Together had to repay the state aid of HUF 150 million to the state budget, as a result Juhász organized a fundraising campaign. The Together ceased to exist on 2 June 2018.\n\n\nOn 8 March 2013, the Dialogue for Hungary (PM) has established an electoral coalition with the Together, which was formed as a political party. Benedek Jávor and Tímea Szabó, co-chairs of the green party also became members of the Together's board. The two parties registered a joint national list for the 2014 European Parliament election too. Dialogue for Hungary broke off the permanent nature of alliance between the two parties on 9 November 2014. The two parties renewed their election cooperation for the 2018 national election on 4 October 2017. However after PM politician Gergely Karácsony became the Socialist Party's prime minister-candidate too, the Together has terminated the cooperation agreement on 8 December 2017.\n\nThe party's ideology was the Social democracy, Social liberalism, Liberalism and the Pro-Europeanism.\n\nFor the Hungarian Parliament:\n\nFor the European Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "1704104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704104", "title": "United States Bureau of Mines", "text": "United States Bureau of Mines\n\nFor most of the 20th century, the United States Bureau of Mines (USBM) was the primary United States government agency conducting scientific research and disseminating information on the extraction, processing, use, and conservation of mineral resources. The Bureau was abolished in 1996.\n\nUSBM was established in the Department of the Interior on May 16, 1910, pursuant to the Organic Act (Public Law 179), to deal with a wave of catastrophic mine disasters. The Bureau's mission was gradually expanded to include:\n\nThe first director of the USBM was Joseph Austin Holmes, a pioneer in occupational safety and health. He served from 1910 until his death in 1915.\n\nFrom its creation, the USBM was viewed, both nationally and internationally, as the focal point for new and emerging science and technology in the minerals field. Since entering competition in 1978, the Bureau of Mines won 35 R&D 100 Awards, given annually by \"R&D Magazine\" for the 100 most important research innovations of the year. This achievement is especially impressive considering the small size of the Bureau's research budget, compared to those of competing organizations, such as E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, General Electric Company, Hitachi, Ltd., the Department of Energy, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).\n\nUSBM originally provided safety and health inspection for mines on a nationwide basis, replacing some, but not all state inspection operations. This division comprised the majority of personnel in USBM. In 1973 the Secretary of the Interior created a separate agency within the department, the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration (MESA), and the safety and health enforcement responsibilities were transferred to the new agency. In 1977 Congress passed the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, which expanded the federal authority for health and safety regulation, and created a new agency, the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). MSHA is located in the Department of Labor, and replaced MESA.\n\nCongress created the Office of Surface Mining with the passage of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, and this agency inherited USBM's surface mining activities. The Department of Energy (DOE), also established in 1977, took over the USBM Coal Productivity Research division. However, the work was left unfunded by the newly created DOE as other priorities too the budget. These reorganizations led to a reduction in USBM staff, from approximately 6,000 in 1968 to 2,600 in the late 1970s. At its peak, USBM had 14 centers throughout the nation, but that was eventually reduced to four \"mining research centers\" in Denver, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis, and Spokane.\n\nIn September 1995, Congress voted to close the Bureau of Mines and to transfer certain functions to other federal agencies. With USBM's closure, almost $100 million, or 66%, of its 1995 programs ceased, and approximately 1,000 of its employees were dismissed. Certain specific health, safety, and materials programs were transferred to the Department of Energy, and certain minerals information activities moved to the U.S. Geological Survey and the Bureau of Land Management. The Bureau's archive of mining maps was transferred to the National Mine Map Repository (NMMR), a part of the Office of Surface Mining (OSM). Closure of the Bureau of Mines, and the accompanying transfers of functions and employee layoffs were essentially complete in March 1996.\n\nThe Bureau's Minerals Information functions were transferred to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) in early 1996. The \"Mineral Industry Surveys,\" \"Mineral Commodity Summaries,\" and the \"Minerals Yearbook\" continued to be published. The Bureau's technical reports are archived by Technical Report Archive & Image Library\n\nThe Health and Safety Research Program at the Pittsburgh and Spokane Research Centers was assigned on an interim basis to DOE (Public Law 104-99). In fiscal year 1997, it was permanently transferred to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) (Public Law 104-134). NIOSH is part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention within the Department of Health and Human Services. A total of 413 full-time equivalent employees were transferred to NIOSH on October 11, 1996—336 in Pittsburgh and 77 in Spokane. A position of Associate Director for Mining in the NIOSH headquarters office was created. Under NIOSH, the Pittsburgh and Spokane Research \"Centers\" were renamed the Pittsburgh Research Laboratory and Spokane Research Laboratory. Both labs currently reside under NIOSH's Office of Mine Safety and Health Research.\n\nOn May 28, 2010, Senator Jay Rockefeller (D-WV) released a list of proposed changes to mine safety laws including re-establishing the Bureau of Mines.\n\nSince its founding, the numerous accomplishments of the Bureau of Mines have included the identification and development of many new processes, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7115697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7115697", "title": "Wallachian uprising of 1821", "text": "Wallachian uprising of 1821\n\nThe uprising of 1821 was a social and political rebellion in Wallachia, which was at the time a tributary state of the Ottoman Empire. It originated as a movement against the Phanariote administration, with backing from the more conservative boyars, but mutated into an attempted removal of the boyar class. Though not directed against Ottoman rule, the revolt espoused an early version of Romanian nationalism, and is described by historians as the first major event of a national awakening. The revolutionary force was centered on a group of Pandur irregulars, whose leader was Tudor Vladimirescu. Its nucleus was the Wallachian subregion of Oltenia, where Vladimirescu established his \"Assembly of the People\" in February.\n\nFrom the beginning, Pandurs were joined by groups of Arnauts and by veterans of the Serbian Revolution. Although infused with anti-Hellenism, they collaborated with, and were infiltrated by, agents of the Filiki Eteria. Vladimirescu also cooperated with the Sacred Band of Alexander Ypsilantis, thereby contributing to the larger war of Greek independence. In conjunction with Ypsilantis' troops coming in from Moldavia, Vladimirescu managed to occupy Bucharest in March. Vladimirescu agreed to split the country with Ypsilantis, preserving control over Oltenia, Bucharest, and the southern half of Muntenia. The Pandurs' relationship with the Sacred Band degenerated rapidly, upon revelations that the Russian Empire had not validated Ypsilantis' expedition, and also over Vladimirescu's attempts to quell Eterist violence. Many of the Arnauts openly or covertly supported Ypsilantis, while others endorsed an independent warlord, Sava Fochianos.\n\nVladimirescu secretly negotiated an entente with the Ottomans, who ultimately invaded Wallachia in late April. The Pandurs withdrew toward Oltenia, which put them at odds with the Sacred Band. Vladimirescu's brutality alienated his own troops; in turn, this rift allowed the Greek revolutionaries to arrest and execute Vladimirescu, unopposed. The Oltenians scattered, though some Pandurs formed pockets of resistance, led by captains such as Dimitrie Macedonski and Ioan Solomon. They suffered clear defeat in their confrontation with the Ottoman Army. In June, Ypsilantis' force and its remaining Pandur allies were routed at Drăgășani. The uprising sparked a cycle of repressive terror, with a final episode in August, when Fochianos and his Arnauts were massacred in Bucharest.\n\nThe uprising of 1821 is widely seen as a failed or incomplete social revolution, with more far-reaching political and cultural implications. The Ottoman government registered its anti-Phanariote message, appointing an assimilated boyar, Grigore IV Ghica, as Prince of Wallachia. The ascent of nationalist boyars was enhanced during the Russian occupation of 1828, and cemented by a new constitutional arrangement, \"Regulamentul Organic\". During this interval, survivors of the uprising split between those who supported this conservative establishment and those who favored liberal causes. The latter also helped preserve a heroic image of Vladimirescu, which was later also borrowed by agrarianists and left-wing activists.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 18th-century, Wallachia and Moldavia (the Danubian Principalities) had been placed by the Sublime Porte under a regime of indirect rule through Phanariotes. This cluster of Greek and Hellenized families, and the associated Greek diaspora, were conspicuously present at all levels of government. At a more generalized level, the Phanariote era emphasized tensions between the boyars, Phanariote or not, and the peasant class. Though released from serfdom, Romanian peasants were still required to provide for the boyars in corvées and tithes. Over the early 19th century, the rural economy was often paralyzed by peasant strikes, tax resistance, sabotage, or litigation. Additional pressures were created by Ottoman demands for the \"haraç\" and other fiscal duties, which the Phanariotes fulfilled through tax farming. \"Excessive fiscal policies, dictated by both the Ottoman demands and the short span of reigns\" meant that Phanariotes treated the principalities as \"an actual tenancy.\" The national budget for 1819 was 5.9 million thaler, of which at least 2 million were taken by the Sublime Porte, 1.3 million went to the ruling family, and 2.4 supplied the bureaucracy. Although not at their highest historical level, Ottoman pressures had been steadily increasing since ca. 1800.\n\nTax payers were additionally constrained by those boyars who obtained tax privileges or exemptions for themselves and their families. In 1819, from 194,000 families subject to taxation, 76,000 had been wholly or partly exempted. Tax farmers, in particular the \"Ispravnici\", acted in an increasingly predatory manner, and, in various cases, tortured peasants into paying more than their share. In the 1800s, a reformist Prince Constantine Ypsilantis sided with the peasants, cracking down on abuse and even threatening capital punishment; this episode failed to address the causes, and abuses continued to be recorded into the 1810s. Under constant fiscal pressure, many villagers resorted to selling their labor to boyars or to peasant entrepreneurs. According to a report by the \"Ispravnic\" of Gorj County, in 1819 migrant farmhands could barely cover their tax debt.\n\nThe Phanariotes' hold on the country was nonetheless put into question by various episodes of the previous half-century, and especially by local troubles coinciding with the Napoleonic era; under the Phanariote regime, Wallachia had dissolved her levy army. In 1802, the threat of an invasion by Ottoman secessionist Osman Pazvantoğlu pushed Bucharest into a panic. At its height, the mercenary Sava Fochianos and his Arnauts denounced their contract and left the city defenseless. This embarrassment prompted Ypsilantis to form a small national contingent, comprising armed burghers and Pandurs who were trained by Western standards. Especially visible in Oltenia, the Pandurs traced their origins to the late 17th century, and had also functioned as a militia in 1718–1739, when Oltenia was a Habsburg territory. At times, they had been self-sustaining, with a lifestyle that bordered on \"hajduk\" brigandage.\nAlthough approved by the Ottomans, this new militia was secretly also a component of Ypsilantis' plan to shake off Ottoman suzerainty with help from the Russian Empire. By August 1806, his alliance with Russia had been exposed, and he was forced to leave into exile. The incident also sparked a six-year-long Russo–Turkish War. During this period, the Romanian Pandurs, including a young Tudor Vladimirescu, acted as a unit of the Imperial Russian Army. Under Russian occupation, the Greek–Romanian rebel Nicolae Pangal issued several manifestos which, as noted by historian Emil Vârtosu, resembled later appeals by Vladimirescu.\n\nHostilities were eventually suspended by the Treaty of Bucharest, hurried by Russia's need to defend herself against the French; Ottoman rule in Wallachia and Moldavia was again consolidated with Russia focused on winning a war in Central Europe. The new Phanariote Prince was John Caradja, whose reign saw an upsurge in tax resistance and \"hajduk\" gang activity. In Bucharest, the epidemic known as Caragea's plague was an opportunity for marauding gangs of outlaws, who confused the authorities by dressing up as undertakers. Rebellious activity peaked in Oltenia, where \"hajduks\" were organized by Iancu Jianu, a boyar's son, who frustrated all of Caradja's attempts at restoring order. However, the Pandurs were divided. In 1814, some joined a raid by pirates from Ada Kaleh, storming through Mehedinți County and Gorj, though they later sought forgiveness from Vladimirescu. The latter had sided with the Caradja regime, but still intervened on their behalf.\n\nAs a result of 1814 riots, tax privileges for the Pandurs were suspended, and they were demoted to the position of a militia assisting the \"Ispravnici\". In 1818, Caradja abandoned his throne and fled Wallachia, leaving Sultan Mahmud II to appoint an elderly loyalist, Alexandros Soutzos. His decision also specified that only four Phanariote families would be eligible for the crowns of either Wallachia and Moldavia: Callimachi, Mourouzis, and two lines of the Soutzos. Upon entering Bucharest, the new Prince inaugurated a regime of institutional abuse. In April 1819, the attempt to put pressure on the peasantry sparked a riot at Islaz. In one especially controversial writ of 1820, Soutzos ruled that the city of Târgoviște was not \"mortmain\", and proclaimed it his family's property. This edict resulted sparked a burgher revolt, during which cadastre officials were attacked and chased out of Târgoviște. Though he still favored the Arnauts, Soutzos revised anti-Pandur persecution, restoring their role in the army and placing them under the command of a Romanian, Ioan Solomon. His tensions with the Arnauts resulted in a standoff with the mercenaries, who barricaded themselves inside Sinaia Monastery. However, Pandur Mihai Cioranu contends, Wallachia \"swarmed with Greeks as never before\", with every military commission set aside to serve \"the Prince and his Greeks\".\n\nSoutzos' other conflict was with the lesser Phanariotes, who were now won over by Greek nationalism. In 1820, Alexander Ypsilantis, son of Prince Constantine, united the various branches of the Filiki Eteria, a Greek revolutionary organization, and began preparing a massive anti-Ottoman revolt from the Russian port city of Odessa. This society had already managed to enlist in its ranks some preeminent Romanian boyars: allegedly, its first recruits included Alecu Filipescu-Vulpea, joined later by Grigore Brâncoveanu. According to one account, the Eterists also invited Soutzos to join the conspiracy, but he refused. He died suddenly on January 19, 1821, prompting speculation that he had been poisoned by Ypsilantis' partisans.\n\nIn Wallachia, Ypsilantis' cause had significant allies: the country's three main regents (or \"Caimacami\")—Brâncoveanu, Grigore Ghica, Barbu Văcărescu—were all secretly members of the Eteria. They contacted Vladimirescu with a mission to revive the national army and align it with Ypsilantis' movement. However, other records suggest that Vladimirescu acted independently of the regents. He was located in Bucharest in November 1820, and was in direct contact with the Eterist leadership through various channels. Within two months, he had reportedly sealed a pact with two of Ypsilantis' agents, Giorgakis Olympios and Yiannis Pharmakis, who were also officers in Soutzos' Arnaut guard, and had borrowed 20,000 thaler from another Eterist, Pavel Macedonski, \"to provide for the coming revolt.\" Nevertheless, according to historian Vasile Maciu, the convention between Vladimirescu and his Eterist colleagues survives only in an unreliable translation, which may be entirely fabricated. The Russian Consul in Wallachia, Alexander Pini, is viewed as a neutral player by scholar Barbara Jelavich, but he too may have been involved on the Eterist side. This was attested by Pini's Moldavian secretary, Ștefan Scarlat Dăscălescu, who attributes the revolt initiative to \"the leaders of the Greek revolution and Mr. Pini\", and dismisses Vladimirescu as a \"Russian creature\". However, a letter from Tudor to Pini refutes any conscious cooperation between the two men.\n\nAccording to information gathered by the Russian spy Ivan Liprandi, Vladimirescu was also promised full adherence by the leading 77 boyars of the country, their pledge eventually issued as a formal writ and presented on their behalf by Dinicu Golescu. Vladimirescu may have used this binding document as a collateral, allowing him to borrow 40,000 more thaler from Matija Nenadović. Liprandi also notes that the Pandur leader was already in contact with Ilarion Gheorghiadis, the Bishop of Argeș, who helped him define his international diplomacy. In the days before Soutzos' death, Vladimirescu had been spotted at Pitești, moving into Oltenia with some 40 Arnauts. He traveled under an innocuous pretext, claiming to be heading for his Gugiu estate in Gorj County, to settle a land dispute.\n\nWhile various researchers agree that Vladimirescu and his Pandurs were motivated by a nationalist ideology, its outline and implications remain debated among scholars. Social historians Ioan C. Filitti and Vlad Georgescu both argue that as a nationalist, Vladimirescu had short-term and long-term agendas: demands of recognition from the Porte, and for the restoration of ancient liberties, were only instrumental to a larger goal, which was national liberation with Russian assistance. Nicolae Iorga views the Pandur leader as taking \"one step forward\" in the development of nationalist discourse, by introducing references to the general will. Nicolae Liu also notes that the \"pragmatic\" rebel \"made no reference to natural rights, but tacitly included them as the basis of his revolutionary program\"; this notion was an import from Revolutionary France, along with the Pandurs' concept of the people-in-arms. Sociolinguist Klaus Bochmann identifies the 1821 documents, including those issued \"in the entourage of Tudor Vladimirescu\" and those of his adversaries, as the first Romanian-language references to \"patriotism\"—and possibly as the first-ever records of a \"political debate being carried out (mainly) in Romanian.\" He underscores the ideological influence of Josephinism, noting that it came to Vladimirescu through his contacts with educator Gheorghe Lazăr; other reports suggest that Vladimirescu was informed about the ideology of the Transylvanian School, having read Petru Maior.\n\nDuring the actual events of the uprising, Western sources began drawing parallels between Vladimirescu and historical peasant rebels, in particular Wat Tyler and Horea. Various authors propose that Vladimirescu and his men were not only nationalists, but also had a core interest in social revolution, seeing it as their mission to supplant or control boyardom. Thus, historian Gheorghe Potra describes Tudor's rising as primarily \"anti-feudal\", with a \"national character\" in that it also aimed to shake off \"the Turkish yoke\". As summarized by historian Neagu Djuvara, the Pandur revolt was originally \"set out against all the nation's plunderers\", but then \"became a peasants' revolt which did not separate 'good' and 'bad' boyars, locals from foreigners. Nevertheless, in order to reach his goal, Tudor had no choice but to reach an agreement with the 'nationalist' boyars [...] as well as with Turkish power, [and] he resorted, at a later stage, to making his revolution into a fundamentally anti-Phanariote one.\" Another ideological difference was that between Vladimirescu's Russophilia, a minority opinion, and the mounting Russophobia of both upper- and middle-class nationalists.\n\nIorga proposes that Vladimirescu tried his best to establish a \"democratic companionship\" of Romanians, hoping to draw a wedge between Romanian and Greek boyars. Among the left-wing scholars, Andrei Oțetea argues that Vladimirescu slowly abandoned the peasant cause and fell into a \"complete and humiliating subordination to the boyars.\" The rebels' anti-boyar discourse was mitigated by other factors. One was the issue of their leader's own social standing: though originating from a clan of Oltenian peasants, Vladimirescu had been accepted into the third-class boyardom, with the rank of \"Sluger\". Cultural historian Răzvan Theodorescu argues that he, the rebel leader, actually belonged to a \"rural bourgeoisie\" which kept genealogies and had an \"unexpected\" taste for heraldry. Other scholars also make note of Vladimirescu's elitist tastes and habits, his refusal to sanction retribution against the boyars, and his crushing of peasant radicalism during his seizure in power. It is also probable that Vladimirescu intended to have himself recognized as Prince, as evidenced by his wearing a white \"kalpak\", traditionally reserved for royalty. His subordinates often referred to him as \"Domnul Tudor\", which also indicated monarchic ambitions \"(see Domnitor)\". The Italian press of his day viewed him as Wallachia's \"Duce\".\n\nAnother fluctuating trait of Vladimirescu's revolt was his attitude toward Greek nationalism. According to Iorga, Phanariote rule meant a \"system of indissoluble elements\", centered on Hellenism and Hellenization. Maciu further notes that Phanariote rulers had stunted Romanian nationalism and national awakening by popularizing an Eastern Orthodox identity, common to Romanians and Greeks; this established a pattern of cooperation, pushing nationalists of various ethnicities into contact with each other. Overall, Vârtosu argues, the rebellion was not xenophobic, but protectionist: Vladimirescu favored the \"uplift of the native people\", but also addressed his to proclamation to a larger \"human kin\". His white-and-blue banner had both familiar symbols of Christian tradition, which \"drenched [the message] in the theological coloring of religious faith\", and verse which described the \"Romanian Nation\". In a Balkans context, Vladimirescu felt most sympathy toward the Serbian Revolution, having had direct contacts with Karađorđe, and \"The Public Ledger\" even speculated that he was himself a Serb. Affiliates of the Pandur revolt also included Naum Veqilharxhi, who published what may be the first manifesto of Albanian nationalism.\n\nIn this setting, however, Vladimirescu \"had no particular reason to hold the Phanariote [Ypsilantis] dear\", and the ideals of Orthodox universalism, \"subordinating [Romanian] aspirations\", were viewed with generalized suspicion. As historians note, Vladimirescu \"would have liked to rid the country of both the Greeks and the Turks\", viewing the former with \"strong aversion\", as the \"agents of Turkish oppression in his country.\" Ottomanist Kemal Karpat suggests that: \"[In] Turkish sources [...] Vladimirescu's revolt is interpreted as a local uprising aimed chiefly at the protection of the local population against Greek exploitation\"; a \"long accepted version was that Vladimirescu rebelled against the Greeks without even being aware that [Ypsilantis], the Greek revolutionary, had risen against the Sultan in Russia.\" In contrast, Dăscălescu proposes that the rebellion was originally anti-Turkish and pro-Greek, but that Vladimirescu had no way of winning over Oltenians with that message. Moreover, Oțetea writes that the Pandur movement cannot be separated from the Eteria, who gave it \"a chief, a program, a structure, the original impulse, tactics for propaganda and combat, [and] the first means of achieving its goals\". Oțetea also claims that Vladimirescu was indirectly influenced by the political vision of Rigas Feraios, though this verdict remains disputed.\n\nFrom the Eterist perspective, sending Vladimirescu to Oltenia was a cover-up for the Greek insurrection—a ruse that had been conceived by Olympios and merely approved by \"Tudor Vladimirescu, his friend\". Seen by some commentators, and probably by Ypsilantis himself, as an actual member of the Eteria, Vladimirescu endorsed the conspiracy in the belief that it had Russian support. However, in early 1821 the Congress of Laibach condemned the Greek revolution, imposing on Emperor Alexander I that he withdraw all endorsement for Ypsilantis' movement. Ypsilantis prolonged his other alliance, with Vladimirescu, only by playing upon words, not revealing to him that Russia's support remained uncertain.\n\nVladimirescu made his first Oltenian stop at Ocnele Mari, then moved in on the Gorj capital, Târgu Jiu, where he stayed at the house of a tax farmer, Vasile Moangă (or Mongescu). His first action as a rebel was to arrest or take hostage the local \"Ispavnic\", Dinicu Otetelișanu, on January 21. On January 22, he and his Arnaut guard captured Tismana Monastery, turning it into a rallying point and prison. A day later, at Padeș, Vladimirescu issued a proclamation mixing social and patriotic slogans. It marked his ideological dissidence, proclaiming the right of peasants to \"meet evil with evil\". Written in a \"vigorously biblical style\", it called into existence an \"Assembly of the People\", which was to \"hit the snake on the head with a cane\", ensuring that \"good things come about\". In a parallel letter to the Sultan, Vladimirescu also insisted that his was an anti-boyar, rather than anti-Ottoman, uprising. The response was positive on the Ottoman side.\n\nInstead of preparing his submission to Ypsilantis, he then began his march on Mehedinți County, passing through Broșteni, Cerneți, and Strehaia. By January 29, boyars and merchants evacuated Mehedinți; this movement was mirrored by a similar exodus from Craiova, the Oltenian capital. Boyars who stayed behind surrendered to Vladimirescu and took an oath of allegiance, becoming known to the Pandurs as \"făgăduiți\" (\"pledged ones\"). Members of this category, though they enjoyed Vladimirescu's personal protection, signed secret letters of protest to the Sultan, calling for his intervention against the \"brigands\". In February, after Vladimirescu had conquered the town of Motru, boyars still present in Craiova petitioned the Ottomans and Russians for help. Consul Pini approved their request to use force against Vladimirescu, but refused to commit Russian troops for that purpose.\n\nReassured by Pini, the regents began amassing an Arnaut resistance to the rebellion, with individual units led by Dumitrachi Bibescu, \"Serdar\" Diamandi Djuvara, \"Deli-bașa\" Mihali, Pharmakis, Hadži-Prodan, and Ioan Solomon. Though there were violent clashes between the two sides at Motru, many of the loyalist troops voluntarily surrendered to the Pandurs, after parleying with Pandur agent Dimitrie Macedonski. Faced with such insuburdionation, \"Caimacam\" Brâncoveanu reportedly maintained his calm and demanded to know Vladimirescu's grievances. Through his Macedonski associates, the rebel leader asked for a unification of boyar parties around his revolutionary goal, which included solving the peasant issue, and ordered them to disband the Arnaut corps. Meanwhile, the peasantry responded to the proclamation of Padeș by organizing into a string a small uprisings. Some happened in Pandur strongholds, as during Dumitru Gârbea's raid on Baia de Aramă, while others took root in more distant villages, such as Bârca and Radovanu. A Captain Ivanciu took control of Pitești and raided the surrounding villages. In other areas, there were highway robberies organized by Romanian peasants or slaves of Romani origin. Such incidents happened in Slănic, Urziceni, or at Nucet Monastery.\n\nOn February 4, the Pandurs were again camped in Gorj, at Țânțăreni. Here, his army grew massively, to about 4,000 infantrymen and 500 horsemen. The Macedonskis recount that Vladimirescu was awaiting for the boyars to follow his orders and unite under his command, but that this demand was in fact unrealistic. While waiting in Țânțăreni, Vladimirescu provided his response to the Boyar Divan, whose leadership had asked not to engage in activity \"harmful for the country\". Vladimirescu presented himself as a \"caretaker\" of the state—one elected by the people to review the \"awful tyranny\" of boyars, but without toppling the regime. A boyars' delegation, led by \"Vornic\" Nicolae Văcărescu, traveled to Vladimirescu's camp on February 11. It asked of the Pandurs that they refrain from marching on Bucharest, and appealed to their patriotic sentiments. To this, Vladimirescu replied that his conception of the motherland was fundamentally different: \"the people, and not the Coterie of plunderers\" (or \"robber class\"). Though he thus restated his generic dislike for the boyars, Vladimirescu also reassured Văcărescu that he did not \"wish any harm to this Coterie\", and \"even more so I want to complete and strengthen its privileges.\"\n\nVăcărescu was immediately replaced with Constantin Samurcaș, who was an Eterist agent, and favored bribing the Pandurs into submission. He offered Vladimirescu a pardon and a large tribute collected from the citizens of Craiova, allegedly sending Hadži-Prodan to Țânțăreni, with 90,000 thaler as a gift. According to at least one account, Samurcaș also prepared Arnaut troops, under Solomon and Djuvara, for a surprise attack on Vladimirescu's quarters. Prodan himself recounted that had secret orders to kill Vladimirescu, but disobeyed and defected to the Pandur side. Contrarily, anti-Greek authors view Prodan as a double agent of the Eteria, infiltrated alongside Dimitrie Macedonski. In recounting this episode, Liprandi claims that Vladimirescu turned tables and unexpectedly handed Samurcaș a list of boyars and notabilities that he wanted executed. Names reportedly included Dionisie Lupu, Metropolitan of Wallachia. Meanwhile, \"Caimacam\" Văcărescu wrote to promise Vladimirescu 250,000 thaler as additional aid, but, according to Liprandi, also demanded that the Pandurs arrest and kill Samurcaș, the \"enemy of [our] cause\".\n\nThe Pandurs had been joined by packs of Oltenian \"hajduks\", including the already famous Iancu Jianu, and by a small selection of young boyars, including Ioan Urdăreanu and a group of scribes: Petrache Poenaru, Ioniță Dârzeanu, and Dumitrache Protopopescu. It remains uncertain whether Gheorghe Magheru, a scion of the boyar clan in Albeni, was also a volunteer Pandur in 1821. Vladimirescu still persecuted exponents of the old regime, having tax farmer Pau Nicolicescu put to death at Strehaia. Nevertheless, he allowed other known exploiters, including Ghiță Cuțui, to join his rebel army. It is statistically probable that more than half of his army captaincies were held by third-class boyars.\n\nThe native Oltenian core was supplemented by Romanian peasants migrating from the Principality of Transylvania, which was part of the Austrian Empire; and from the Silistra Eyalet (Ottoman Dobruja). There were also massive arrivals of other Balkan ethnicities. The cavalry in particular was staffed by foreign volunteers, mainly Arnauts and Serbs. The command core had Greek, Serb, Aromanian and Bulgarian officers, whose primary loyalty was to the Eteria. They included Olympios, Pharmakis, Prodan, \"Serdar\" Djuvara, and Macedonski. The anonymous chronicle \"Istoria jăfuitorilor\" additionally notes that Vladimirescu's core units were staffed with veterans of Karađorđe's armies, including Pharmakis, Mihali, and Tudor Ghencea; others who had served with Ali Pasha of Ioannina. European journals also recorded the recruitment of Greeks from Germany, and the presence of former officers from the \"Grande Armée\".\nTensions between these figures and their Oltenian commander were visible in February, when Vladimirescu put a stop to Prodan and Macedonski's sacking of the Otetelișanu manor in Benești. According to Liprandi, Olympios was always a liability in Vladimirescu's camp, manipulating both him and Ypsilantis for material gain. Olympios also tested Vladimirescu by rescuing and protecting a renegade Pandur, Grigore Cârjaliul, and by murdering some of the prisoners held at Tismana. Pharmakis, who commanded over his own cohort of \"400 Albanians\", also acted independently, shielding from persecutions the boyars Lăcusteanu. For his part, Vladimirescu protected the Dinicu Golescu and his family, ordering his troops to release Iordache. The latter was then given a Pandur guard which escorted him to Transylvania.\n\nOn February 23, Bucharest went through another regime change. Brâncoveanu secretly left Bucharest and crossed into Transylvania, settling in the border city of Corona (Brașov). His departure created another panic, stoked by the Arnauts. Olympios and Pharmakis returned to the capital and took control of its garrison, also raiding Târgoviște, Găești, and Băicoi. The Sultan selected a new Prince, Scarlat Callimachi, who refused to abandon Ottoman safety for his throne. Instead, Callimachi appointed a new triumvirate of \"Caimacami\", presided upon by Stefan Bogoridi. This interval also marked the return to Bucharest of Sava Fochianos, whom Callimachi had created a \"Binbashi\" of his own Arnaut garrison.\n\nIn parallel, the Eterist uprising began with a revolt of the Moldavian military forces in Galați and a pogrom of the local Turks, both staged by Vasileios Karavias. Organized militarily as a \"Sacred Band\", the Eterists occupied Moldavia in the last week of February, and issued manifestos calling on all Ottoman Christians to join them. A military government was created in Iași, under a General Pendidekas. This was the starting point of an exodus of locals from the country, with some pockets of anti-Eterist resistance. Overall, Moldavian boyars were shocked by Karavias' violence; the native population at large was anti-Greek by virtue of being anti-Phanariote, and only a few thousand Moldavians ever joined the Sacred Band.\n\nIn Wallachia, the combined Pandur–Arnaut force also began moving on Bucharest, taking Slătioara on March 4. Callimachi's regency also sought to coax Vladimirescu into submission, but he ignored the offer, and, instigated by the Macedonskis, prepared a Pandur conquest of Wallachia. He then addressed the \"Caimacami\" a five-point ultimatum, which called for the removal of Phanariotes, the reestablishment of a levy army, tax relief, as well as 500,000 thaler for Vladimirescu's expenses. A document formulated as \"Cererile norodului românesc\" (\"Demands of the Romanian People\") also specified a racial quota in assigning boyar offices and titles, and more generically a meritocracy. The main tax was kept, but reduced and divided into quarterly installments.\n\nNumerical estimates of Vladimirescu's force vary significantly. Some authors count 8,000 soldiers (6,000 Oltenian infantrymen, 2,000 Balkan cavalry), while others advance the number to 10,000, 14,000, or 24,000. According to Cioranu, in all Vladimirescu's army comprised 20,000 men: of his 12,000 Pandurs, 6,000 had been left at forts in Oltenia, including troops under \"Serdar\" Djuvara, Solomon, and Moangă; 8,000 Arnauts \"of various races\", mostly Serbs from Karađorđe's army, of whom only 2,500 were available for combat. Vladimirescu himself claimed to have at least 12,000 men under arms, while conservative estimates lower that number to 4,000 or 5,000. These troops were also backed by a cell of artillery personnel. According to various counts, they had five to eight cannons, of which two were smaller in size.\n\nThe Pandurs' march came with a recruitment drive. For instance, Solomon's auxiliary force held Craiova, where they began signing up burghers. Pitești, which had strategic importance, was secured on March 7, and placed under Captain Simion Mehedințeanu. Pandur recruitment largely failed here, but the townsfolk pledged their material support. The hostile narrator of \"Istoria jăfuitorilor\" also claims that Vladimirescu was expected in Bucharest by a fifth column, comprising \"vagabonds, foreigners, Serbian, Arnaut or Bulgarian thieves, and all those Bucharest panhandlers that we mockingly call \"crai\" [kings]\". The breakdown of Phanariote power accelerated crossovers by the Arnauts, who were no longer receiving salaries from the treasury. Vladimirescu himself separated between loyal and disloyal Arnauts. At Slatina, he had established a 40-men Serb \"killing guard\", possibly led led by Chiriac Popescu. Its first mission was to assassinate Arnaut leaders who had engaged in looting.\n\nOn March 10, the rebels crossed the Olt River, marched through Șerbănești and Ciolănești, then settled camp at Vadu-Lat. Ostensibly to \"unite with Vladimirescu\", the Sacred Band crossed the Milcov into Wallachia, with Ypsilantis reassuring locals that he would maintain good governance in the places he occupied and would not tolerate any violence against them. Reportedly, Vladimirescu sent him letters asking him to withdraw, but these reached Ypsilantis when he was already in Ploiești. While camped there, the Sacred Band organized a military government, comprising Greeks and Romanian Eterists. Going against Ypsilantis' earlier promises, it staged raids on civilians and multiple confiscations of property. As Cioranu notes, \"Romanians never even wanted to hear [Ypsilantis' proclamations], let alone fight under his banner.\"\n\nThe unexpected double invasion alarmed the Divan. Most boyars refused to trust in Vladimirescu's assurances, and fled Bucharest for safety in Transylvania or the countryside, although Olympios and Pharmakis tried to intercept them at Cotroceni and Ciorogârla. A new regency took over, with Metropolitan Dionisie at its helm; ministers included Alecu Filipescu-Vulpea, Fotachi Știrbei, and Grigore Băleanu. The main Pandur force took possession of Bolintin on March 16, sending out patrols to take Cotroceni and Colentina. At Bolintin, Vladimirescu issued his appeal to Bucharesters, informing them that they had nothing to fear once they took up his cause, the cause \"of Christendom\". He disavowed the exiled boyars, accusing them of having made common cause with the Phanariotes. A second proclamation on March 20 was a call to national unity, \"for we are all parts of the same people\". It showed his belief in class collaboration, but also, again, his ambition to stand as a national leader, governing for the benefit of the dispossessed.\nThe Pandurs slowly approached Bucharest from the west. According to one oral tradition, Vladimirescu set up another camp in Cotroceni, his tent planted in the exact spot where physician Carol Davila was later buried. On March 21, the rebel army finally marched into the Romanian capital. The rebel column, followed by a mass of city-dwellers, walked through the borough later known as Rahova. The procession was led on by an ensign with Vladimirescu's banner of white and blue; Vladimirescu himself held a loaf of bread, to signal prosperity. Upon reaching Dealul Mitropoliei, he requisitioned the home of Zoe Brâncoveanu, turning it into his temporary residence. He and his army were welcomed by Metropolitan Dionisie, who now expressed his \"great joy\". Those boyars still present in the city proclaimed Vladimirescu's movement to be \"useful and redeeming for the people\", recognizing him as governor and taking an oath to support him. By contrast, the Arnaut garrison, supporting Fochianos, occupied the Metropolitan Church and Radu Vodă Monastery, defying the Pandurs and shooting at them as they approached. The standoff was ended after friendly negotiations between Fochianos and Vladimirescu, resulting in a ceasefire; Fochianos recognized Vladimirescu's executive and judicial authority over Wallachia.\n\nMeanwhile, the Sacred Band, under Ypsilantis, had also reached the area, and remained camped outside the city. The two armies \"observed each other, without merging into one another; the fundamental contradiction of [their] alliance was becoming more and more apparent\". The Eterists pressed on to be allowed entry into Bucharest, but Vladimirescu only offered them a deserted Ghica family manor in Colentina, outside city limits. Ypsilantis and his staff were allowed to visit the city, but found themselves ridiculed by anti-Greek locals, who called theirs an army of \"pie-makers\". On March 25, Ypsilantis and Vladimirescu had their first meeting. Though they immediately disliked each other, they agreed to a partition of Wallachia: Vladimirescu held on to Oltenia, Bucharest, and southern Muntenia (comprising the Wallachian Plain), while the Sacred Band moved into the Muntenian stretch of the Southern Carpathians. The meeting also gave the Pandurs a chance to observe Ypsilantis' army, which they found to be alarmingly small and under-prepared.\n\nWhile the partition was ongoing, news came of Russia having denounced Ypsilantis, singled out as an enemy of the Holy Alliance. As Liprandi reports, Vladimirescu privately asked Ypsilantis to complete his transit of Wallachia or withdraw to Moldavia. Ypsilantis hid this detail from his Romanian contacts as he began taking pledges of support from the various Pandur captains. He also hid from them that the Sacred Band had been anathemized by the Orthodox Patriarch, Gregory V.\n\nOn March 15, Pharmakis and his troops, quartered in Lipscani, central Bucharest, broke with the Pandurs. A ceremony organized by actor Costache Aristia consecrated their own army symbols, which echoed Byzantine flags and insignia. As noted by Cioranu, \"just about most foreigners who were under Tudor's banners\" abandoned their posts in Oltenia and joined the Sacred Band. In the process, they \"looted churches, houses, villages, boyars, merchants and everything they could lay hands on, leaving Christians naked [...] and raping wives and girls in front of their husbands and fathers.\" The same Cioranu notes that the Sacred Band, though only numbering 7,000 men officially, could count then on support from at least 20,000 Greeks and allies. Vladimirescu was nevertheless able to prevent an alliance between Fochianos and Ypsilantis, reminding the former, who was effectively his hostage, of his pledge to the Divan. Together, they began policing the city to prevent Eterist looting. In the \"mahalale\", the Pandurs formed a citizens' self-defense force which may have grouped thousands of Romanians and Romanies. Fochianos commanded the allegiances of 800 loyalist Arnauts and 1,000 armed tanners. According to various reports, the anti-looting policy alienated some of the troops, with as many as 400 men leaving Vladimirescu's camp as a result.\n\nThe two armies remained \"arrested on the spot\", and Vladimirescu began searching for an honorable retreat. On March 27, the boyars, instigated by him, produced a letter which informed foreign powers that the revolution only intended to restore \"old privileges\" and limit abuse. Vladimirescu also drafted and sent letters of fealty to Mahmud II, limiting his demands to the restoration of elective monarchy in Wallachia; the Ottomans responded that there would be such negotiation lest he surrender his weapons. At the time, the Eterist rear in Moldavia was being attacked by a pro-Ottoman, and Austrian-backed, guerrilla. Led by Gavril Istrati and flying red flags, it managed to chase the Greeks out of Botoșani. As argued by Iorga, this force stood for the \"\"other\" revolution\" (Iorga's emphasis), \"opposed, like Tudor's was, to the Greek revolution.\" On April 5, Vladimirescu acknowledged Moldavian interests, writing to his own Divan, on April 5, about the possibility of a common movement for justice.\n\nDuring the final days of March, amid rumors of an Ottoman retaliation, Vladimirescu barricaded his Pandurs in Cotroceni Monastery. The new fortifications were designed by the nationalist schoolteacher Gheorghe Lazăr and built using convict labor. The Pandurs also set up lookout points in the Metropolitan Church and at Radu Vodă. On April 14, Vladimirescu inspired his boyars to draft an anti-Eterist proclamation, accusing Ypsilanti of being a dishonored guest in a \"country that had received [him] with open arms.\" The Metropolitan and the Divan also obtained special protection from Tudor, and were moved to a safer location in Belvedere Manor, Ciurel. According to Liprandi, this was a move engineered by Filipescu-Vulpea, who planned the boyars' escape into Transylvania. Liprandi also reports that Vulpea exploited conflicts between Vladimirescu and Fochianos, presenting the latter as a mortal danger for the boyars as well. In fact, the boyars were able to survive Fochianos' attempted raid on Belvedere.\n\nFrom his barracks in Târgoviște, Ypsilantis responded to Vladimirescu's allegations with a proclamation in which he declared his disappointment, and stated his intention of leaving Wallachia to engage the Ottomans in the Balkans. However, he also began organizing northern Muntenia as an Eterist domain, sacking Vladimirescu's supporters. One report suggests that he also depleted Romanian ammunition stores, taking away some 6,000 pounds (almost 3 tons) of gunpowder. Meanwhile, Vladimirescu had become more persistent in pursuing peace with the Ottomans. With the help of an Ottoman subject, Nuri Ağa, he circulated allegations that Ypsilantis and Callimachi were both conspirators, hinting that the Sultan could only ensure Wallachia's loyalty by removing the Phanariotes altogether. On April 18, Jianu and Constantin Borănescu were sent to Silistra to parley with the Ottomans. The negotiations were inconclusive, as Romanians refused to either surrender or take up arms against the Sacred Band. Jianu was arrested there by order of Mehmed Selim Pasha.\n\nOverall, Vladimirescu appeared hesitant. Nuri later revealed that he had prepared bribes for Vladimirescu to use on Ypsilantis' captains. This offer was shoved aside by Vladimirescu, who explained that he feared bribing treasonous men. In parallel, with a new proclamation from Cotroceni, Vladimirescu asserted that the Pandurs, Serbs and Bulgarians would stand together against Ottoman encroachment: \"we must fire our rifles into Turkish flesh, should they invade.\" Vladimirescu also reacted to the encroachment by sending his own \"Ispravnici\" to Rușii, where Callimachi's \"Postelnic\", Constantin Negri, had attempted to set his base. On Easter Sunday, 600 Ottoman soldiers stormed into Rușii, executing 30 Pandurs along with 170 civilians. A Serbian outlaw, known as Ghiță Haidicul, punished such an incursion on March 21, capturing and maiming some 40 Turks. Vladimirescu no longer intervened when the Bashi-bazouks took Călărași, which they began fortifying in preparation for a larger invasion. His revolt was nevertheless influential south of the Danube, in the Sanjak of Nicopolis. The Bulgarians here rose up in arms, but were put down by the Ottoman Army. Violent persecution against them was curbed, but later mutated into specific actions against Nicopolitan Catholics.\n\nDuring the last days of April, the Ottoman Army made its coordinated push into Wallachia, with 20,000 to 32,000 soldiers—half of whom headed straight for Moldavia. The other 10,000 or 14,000 were split into two columns: one, placed under Dervish Mehmed Pasha and Ioan Rogobete, entered Oltenia at Calafat; the other, led by Mehmed Selim Pasha and Kara Feiz Ali, set out of Călărași into Muntenia. Of the easternmost force, a regiment under Yusuf Berkofcali entered Brăila en route to Moldavia, where they set fire to Galați and massacred its population. This invasion force consisted of 5,500 infantry and 500 cavalry, assisted by 1,000 Zaporozhian Cossacks of the Danubian Sich; Hilmi Ibrahim Pasha also sailed to the region with some 40 Ottoman river vessels. During their subsequent invasion of Putna County, Berkofcali reportedly isolated some other remnants of Vladimirescu's army.\n\nOn May 14–15, the Ottomans held Copăceni and Cățelu, in sight of Bucharest. A \"firman\" of the Porte announced that its armies would seek to administer justice, separating \"the exploited from exploiters\"; it commended Fochianos and Negri for their loyalism, assigning them to govern over Bucharest \"until the peoples are as pacified as they have been in the old day.\" This document described Vladimirescu as a loyalist who demanded \"pity and justice\", whereas Ypsilantis was dismissed as an \"outcast\". Both Nuri and an Ottoman general, \"Kethüda\" Kara Ahmed, presented new offers for cooperation with the Pandurs, including promises that they would introduce a \"settlement that is more favorable to the peasants\". Although praised by the \"firman\", Fochianos made a belated show of his conversion of the Eterist cause, parading through Bucharest under a \"freedom banner\", probably the same one flown by Aristia. Reportedly, Fochainos boasted his ability to \"incite all of Bulgaria through his agents and his influence on that bellicose nation.\"\n\nAccording to one interpretation, Vladimirescu still considered resisting militarily, but was suspicious of Fochianos, and abandoned this plan in favor of a full retreat. He sent his acolytes Mihali and Ghencea to meet Ypsilantis and Pharmakis at Mărgineni Monastery, reportedly in order to synchronize resistance. Cioranu argues that this was merely a pretext to spy on the Sacred Band. Over those days, the two rival armies, Greek and Romanian, had already begun moving across Wallachia and toward their respective Carpathian strongholds: Vladimirescu's set course for Oltenia, while Ypsilantis moved into northern Muntenia. The retreat also saw military exercises which tested the troops' resilience and readiness for combat. In one reported incident, Vladimirescu staged an Ottoman attack, ordering some of his soldiers to dress up in Turkish uniforms. Order and morale waned among the Pandurs, prompting Vladimirescu to met out punishments that were marked by \"cruelty.\" He may have killed as many as 30 of his own soldiers, some of them by his own hand.\n\nThe retreat also infuriated the Sacred Band. According to one account, Ypsilantis sent Fochianos in pursuit of the Romanian column. Other versions suggest that Fochianos, still in contact with the Porte, expected to \"play the two sides against each other and then side with the winner\", or \"an opportunity of making the prince [Ypsilantis] prisoner\". Olympios also followed the Pandurs and, upon reaching them, demanded that Vladimirescu return to fight for Bucharest. During a subsequent standoff on the banks of Cârcinov, Vladimirescu agreed to hold deescalation talks. Terror against his own troops had peaked during the Pandurs' passage through Argeș County. At Golești, Vladimirescu ordered the hanging of Ioan Urdăreanu, as punishment for the desertion of four Pandur captains. This incident reportedly caused distress, greatly diminishing Pandur support for their leader. According to the scribe Dârzeanu, Olympios and Pharmakis used the negotiations at Golești, which resulted in a renewed pact with the Sacred Band, to approach Pandur malcontents and probe their commitments.\n\nVladimirescu also fell out with the Macedonskis, who claimed to have stumbled upon proof that he had embezzled 1 million thaler, and announced that they would surrender him to the Divan for trial. On May 21, Ypsilantis' agents marched into the camp and seized Vladimirescu, confident that none of his soldiers would resist them. Cioranu recalls that the Eterists displayed Vladimirescu's correspondence with the Porte, prompting the Pandurs to rally behind Prodan and Macedonski, identified as their new commanders. They allegedly told them that Olympios would personally handle Vladimirescu's surrender to the Divan. The prisoner was instead taken to the Sacred Band headquarters at Târgoviște, where he was tortured, shot, cut into pieces, and disposed of.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath, the Pandurs scattered, with most reentering civilian life; of those who refused to do so, some joined Ypsilantis' force, while others rallied with Anastasie Mihaloglu to form an independent revolutionary force. D. Macedonski, who traveled to Oltenia but remained in contact with the Eterists, was allegedly misinformed by his allies that Vladimirescu was still alive, but exiled. Pandur forces also included some 800 defectors from Golești, under Ioan Oarcă, and Solomon's troops, which had by then withdrawn to Țânțăreni. News of Vladimirescu's capture interrupted Poenaru and Ilarion Gheorghiadis from their diplomatic mission to the Holy Alliance, which pleaded for direct protection from Eterist \"cruelty\". Having just crossed the border into Transylvania, they opted not to return.\n\nOther Pandur sympathizers followed suit. They include poet Iancu Văcărescu, who took with him a sabre that he claimed had been Vladimirescu's. This influx alarmed Transylvanian authorities, who feared that Pandurs would incite revolution among the Grenz infantry and the serfs of Hunyad County. At Szúliget, several peasants, including the elderly Adam Bedia, were imprisoned for having prepared and armed themselves in expectation of \"Tudor's men\". Chancellor Sámuel Teleki ordered the Military Border reinforced, and began sending back refugees; the boyars of Corona were deported further inland. However, both Macedonski and Prodan were able to break through the cordon, disguised as merchants.\n\nMeanwhile, all of Bucharest had surrendered to Kara Ahmed. Known in Romanian as \"Chehaia\", he was much feared and disliked by the Romanians, having tolerated massacres and rapes. In cultural terms, his arrival meant a return to sartorial traditionalism: Western fashion, which had been popular with the young boyars, became politically suspect; society in both Wallachia and Moldavia returned to the standards of Ottoman clothing. The Danubian Sich also participated in Bucharest's occupation, with \"Kosh\" Nikifor Beluha organizing the plunder. Beluha returned to Dunavets with a \"large bounty\", including a church bell. Once evacuated, Târgoviște also surrendered to the Zaporozhian Cossacks, but was not spared large-scale destruction. A legion of some 3,000 soldiers, under Kara Feiz, went in pursuit of the Pandurs, taking Craiova and setting fire to Slatina.\n\nOn May 26, at Zăvideni, Mihaloglu, \"Serdar\" Djuvara and Solomon were surprised by Kara Feiz. The troops scattered, with most surrendering to the Austrians in Transylvania. Solomon himself would spend six years in Austrian jails. During that interval, the nationalist boyars and bishops, including Dionisie, also escaped into Transylvania. Remaining in the country, Fochianos had turned against Ypsilantis, again pledging himself to Callimachi. He then assisted the invasion force, helping to identify and capture revolutionary sympathizers—including Djuvara, who surrendered at Cozia Monastery and was then executed.\n\nBoth rival revolutionary armies were crushed in June–August 1821: Ypsilantis' was routed at Drăgășani; the independent Pandurs were massacred while resisting in northern Oltenia. Repression came with extreme violence: Ioan Dobrescu, the last Romanian chronicler, reports that \"even the mountains stank\" from dead bodies. \"A large number of dead bodies\" were recovered by locals from Colentina manor, while others had been discarded in the marshes of Tei. A regrouped Eterist contingent, led by Pharmakis and Olympios, held out at Secu Monastery in Moldavia; Olympios reportedly detonated himself during the siege, while Pharmakis was taken prisoner and decapitated. Reportedly, only two Eterists who had fought at Secu were still alive in 1828. In July, the Ottomans ambushed Ghiță Haiducul and Vladimirescu's brother Papa, then impaled them.\n\nOn August 6, the Ottomans liquidated their nominal ally Fochianos, and all his Arnauts, having first lured them back to Bucharest. Ottoman terror was finally curbed by the Austrian Empire, who threatened with invasion upon being informed that victims of repression included Austrian subjects. On March 14, 1822, the Holy Alliance issued a final warning, which prompted the Sultan to recall his troops.\n\nDespite being met with violent repression, the Eterist ideal remained planted in the Balkans, and, after a decade of fighting, Greek nationalists managed to establish the Kingdom of Greece. The Romanian revolt had generally more delayed and less conspicuous results. Sociologist Dimitrie Drăghicescu was particularly dismissive of the 1821 movement, viewing it as a sample of Romanian \"passivity\": \"[it] was so unlike a real, courageous, revolution; it can be reduced to a rally of no consequence.\" According to Djuvara, Vladimirescu failed because \"the time had not yet come for what he intended to accomplish\": \"he never managed to entice the peasant mass of the villages, where his message never penetrated the way it should have. [...] The class he could have relied on—and to which he did not himself belong—, that of traders and artisans, the barely nascent bourgeoisie, was not at that junction structured enough to represent a political force.\"\n\nVârtosu also describes the Pandurs were a \"first generation of democracy\", but a \"sacrificial generation\"—\"there was little ideological preparation in the Country\". Similarly, Potra notes that the \"revolutionary movement of 1821\" was actually hailed by Bucharesters as an opportunity for \"national liberation\", \"but could not have achieved this.\" Instead, \"this first revolution, which opened the way for a line of struggles [...] for the independence and freedom of the Romanian nation, has violently shaken up the feudal order, contributing to the demise of the Phanariote regime.\" Maciu contrarily believes that Vladimirescu's movement could have in fact brought about \"bourgeois rule\" and the capitalist mode of production, but that it never took off as an actual revolution. Karl Marx once categorized the 1821 events as a \"national insurrection\" rather than \"peasants' revolt\". As Maciu concludes, this acknowledges that the revolt was carefully planned, but fell short of stating a bourgeois objective.\n\nVladimirescu endured in the symbolic realm, a hero of folklore and literature, \"a legend [...] which will serve to nurture the builders of modern Romania.\" As poet Ion Heliade Rădulescu argued, the Pandurs had managed to take Wallachia out of her \"somnolence\" and \"degeneracy\". In its immediate aftermath, however, the revolt sparked mainly negative commentary. A cluster of chroniclers, boyar and conservative, still dominated the literary scene. They include Dobrescu, Alecu Beldiman, Naum Râmniceanu, and Zilot Românul, all of whom disliked Vladimirescu. A noted exception to this rule was the Aromanian patriot Toma Gheorghe Peșacov. Though he probably never approved of Vladimirescu's social discourse, Dinicu Golescu subdued his criticism, and expressed his own concerns about the corvée system. Through its parallel depiction in folklore, the Pandur rising was transposed into foreign literature: some of the first ballads about Vladimirescu or Fochianos were collected in the Bessarabia Governorate by Alexander Pushkin (who was enthusiastic about the revolt, as early as February 1821), and reused as literary sources by Alexander Veltman. Semiotician Yuri Lotman argues that Pushkin wanted to weave the Romanian revolt into a planned sequel to \"Eugene Onegin\".\n\nThe revolt had sent out signals to the Ottoman government, and produced relevant policy changes. One of the early signs of change came just months after its suppression, when the Divan restored Târgoviște to its citizens, and the \"cartel of the four [princely] families\" was formally annulled. In July 1822, after having heard a new set of boyar complaints which had Russian and Austrian backing, the Sultan put an end to the Phanariote regime, appointing Grigore IV Ghica (the former \"Caimacam\" of 1821) and Ioan Sturdza as \"native\" Princes of Wallachia and Moldavia, respectively. Trying to appease Russia, in 1826 the Ottoman Empire also signed the Akkerman Convention, which set commercial freedoms for Romanians and the Moldavians, and allowed the Divans to elect their Princes for seven-year terms. The new regimes set a standard of Westernization and cultural Francophilia, giving impetus to the National Party and the local Freemasonry. Prince Ghica, having recovered his Colentina manor, rebuilt it as a Neoclassical palace, in line with the Westernized preferences of his subjects.\n\nAccording to Jelavich, repressive measures against the Romanian peasantry remained subdued: \"although villages were disarmed and attempts were made to collect the taxes and labor obligations that were due from the period of the rebellion, the entire matter was handled with relative moderation.\" Overall, however, the Vladimirescu revolt and the Sacred Band contributed to the \"tangible degradation\" of Wallachia's economy, which was only enhanced by the \"terrible plundering\" of Ottoman occupation. \"Le Moniteur Universel\" reported that \"everything in the countryside has been destroyed; what Greek revolutionaries could not accomplish, the Ottoman vanguard did.\" A monetary crisis, sparked by the events of 1821 and cemented by the recovery of boyar privilege, affected both principalities for an entire decade.\n\nTroubles continued under Ghica, including raids by Arnauts hiding in Transylvania and a number of riots. In 1826 Simion Mehedințeanu attempted a new uprising at Padeș; he was defeated and hanged. Despite Ottoman concessions, Wallachia and Moldavia fell to a new Russian occupation in 1828–1829. During this phase, the Pandurs were revived by Governor Pavel Kiselyov and Costache Ghica, who created new units throughout Muntenia. The Divan, fearful of rebellion, reduced the number of Oltenian recruits, while Muntenians simply kept away. Liprandi commanded his own Russian unit in the campaign, giving employment to many Arnauts who had lived the previous seven years as marauding outlaws. This time saw the rise of a new Pandur commandant, Gheorghe Magheru. After policing Oltenia, he saw action against at Șișești, repelling 3,000 Ottomans with a force of 450 Pandurs.\n\nThe Russian regime was extended by a new constitutional arrangement, \"Regulamentul Organic\", which made the two countries Russian-controlled territories under Ottoman suzerainty. The corresponding Treaty of Adrianople enhanced commercial freedoms, and is credited as the birth certificate of Romanian capitalism, with its modern middle class and a new standard of living. The full reestablishment of Wallachia's professional military under Russian command was, according to Potra, also a means to perpetuate a \"strong revolutionary tradition\" that included the Pandur unrest. The new system continued to be perceived as oppressive by the peasants, giving rise to various attempted revolts, particularly in Oltenia. In the 1830s, Gorj and Dolj witnessed peasant rioters shouting slogans such as \"Tudor has come back to life!\" A veteran of 1821, Nicolae Groază, reverted to a life of crime. This \"last Romanian \"hajduk\"\", captured and tried in 1838, defended himself by noting that he followed in the footsteps of Vladimirescu, Pharmakis, and Solomon.\n\nDuring this interval, Vladimirescu associate Poenaru became organizer of Wallachian education. Although he had abandoned his youthful radicalism, Poenaru encouraged research into the revolt, as well as artistic homages to Vladimirescu. The Pandurs' colors may also have inspired political symbolism adopted the \"native\" rulers. Vladimirescu's banner, though blue-and-white, had blue-yellow-red tassels; a memory of this color scheme may have inspired the adoption of Wallachian ensigns and Romanian tricolors. In Moldavia, as early as 1843, historian Mihail Kogălniceanu praised Vladimirescu for having \"raised the national flag\" to demand \"a national government, founded on a liberal charter.\"\n\nTensions between nationalists and the Russian protectors, first evidenced with the 1842 ouster of Wallachian Prince Alexandru II Ghica, were enhanced by anti-Russian conspiracies. Before the full-scale Wallachian Revolution of 1848, one such revolutionary fraternity united Dimitrie Macedonski with the young liberal boyars Mitică Filipescu and Nicolae Bălcescu. The period also saw the uprising glorified in poetry by Cezar Bolliac and Alexandru Pelimon, then explored in adventure novels by Constantin Boerescu, Dimitrie Bolintineanu, and Nicolae Filimon. The uprising and its impact on the Reformed Church missionaries are also retold in a short story by Mór Jókai, from first-hand reports by Károly Sükei. This revival of interest was contrasted by conservative views. Poet and essayist Grigore Alexandrescu viewed Vladimirescu as \"nearsighted and cruel\", while Grigore Lăcusteanu defined the uprising as a \"first attempt to murder Romanian aristocracy, so that the nobodies and the churls may take its place\". Solomon, though he had served Vladimirescu and remained a Pandur commander, also turned conservative during the 1840s.\n\nEventually, the \"Regulamentul\" regime was ended by the Crimean War, which also opened the way for the creation of a Romanian state from the union of Moldavia and Wallachia. According to Djuvara, during this process \"nationalist\" boyars imposed on historiography a narrative that obscured Vladimirescu's views on class conflict, preserving a memory of the revolution as only an anti-Phanariote and nativist phenomenon. The social dimension of 1821 was again revisited in the 1860s by egalitarian liberals such as Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, who directed Constantin D. Aricescu to write a new history of the revolt. \n\nThis populist trend was continued following the proclamation of a Kingdom of Romania. The original rebel flag, preserved by the Cacalațeanu family, was recovered in 1882 and assigned to the Romanian Land Forces by Hasdeu. In the 1890s, Constantin Dobrescu-Argeș, the agrarian leader and Pandur descendant, made reference to the Vladimirescu revolt as a precursor to his own movement. In 1913, Gheorghe Munteanu-Murgoci founded a youth organization called Pandurs, later merged into Romania's Scouts. During the World War I occupation of Oltenia, Victor Popescu set up partisan units directly modeled on the 1821 rebels. Vladimirescu was also recovered by the pantheon of Greater Romania, one of the \"warrior heroes\" depicted in the Romanian Atheneum. \n\nSeveral authors revisited the events during the interwar, with topical plays being written by Iorga and Ion Peretz. As nationalists, the 1821 Pandurs also had cult status in fascist propaganda put out by the Iron Guard during the 1930s and '40s, and lent their name to a paramilitary subgroup of the Romanian Front. Contrarily, the underground Communist Party cultivated Vladimirescu's legendary status as an exponent of the \"popular masses\". During World War II, Romania fought as an ally of Nazi Germany. Prisoners of war held by the Soviet Union were then coaxed into forming a Tudor Vladimirescu Division, which also helped communize the Land Forces.\n\nWith the imposition of a communist state, the Pandurs came to be seen as revolutionary precursors, and also as figures of anti-Western sentiment. Communist Romanian and Soviet historiography glossed over differences between Ypsilantis and Vladimirescu, depicting both as Russian-inspired liberators of the Balkans. In his pseudohistorical articles of 1952–1954, Solomon Știrbu alleged that Vladimirescu's revolution had been sparked by the Decembrist movement, and had been ultimately defeated by \"agents of the English bourgeoisie\". During De-Stalinization, Oțetea received political approval to curb this trend, though his own conclusions were soon challenged by other exponents of Marxist historiography, including David Prodan.\n\nVladimirescu was still perceived as mainly a social revolutionary, but maintained a hero's status throughout the regime's latter nationalist phase. In 1966, Nicolae Ceaușescu established an Order of Tudor Vladimirescu, as Communist Romania's third most important distinction. During this interval, the revolt was reconstructed in film, with \"Tudor\". Viewed at the time as a significant achievement in Romanian historical cinema, it was also the lifetime role for the lead, Emanoil Petruț. Despite Oțetea's stated objections, screenwriter Mihnea Gheorghiu downplayed all connections between Vladimirescu and the Eteria, and elevated his historical stature. The film provided a venue for criticism of Russia, but also depicted Vladimirescu as an early champion of nationalization. During the 1970s, following a revival of historical fiction, the revolt was a subject matter for Paul A. Georgescu, with a critically acclaimed novel, also named \"Tudor\". Later film productions dealing with the events include the 1981 Ostern \"Iancu Jianu, haiducul\", which also modifies the historical narrative to endorse the regime's theses. \n\nBy the 1980s, the scholarly bibliography on the revolt of 1821 had become \"enormous\". Following the anti-communist revolution of 1989, Vladimirescu was preserved as a political symbol by some of the nationalist groups, including the Greater Romania Party. Others perceived his revolt as the symbol of an Oltenian specificity. On March 21, 2017, marking the 196th anniversary of Bucharest's taking by the Pandurs, the Chamber of Deputies of Romania passed a law to mark the occasion annually, as \"Oltenia Day\".\n"}
{"id": "5584328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584328", "title": "Watchman (law enforcement)", "text": "Watchman (law enforcement)\n\nWatchmen were organized groups of men, usually authorized by a state, government, city, or society, to deter criminal activity and provide law enforcement as well as traditionally perform the services of public safety, fire watch, crime prevention, crime detection, recovery of stolen goods. Watchmen have existed since earliest recorded times in various guises throughout the world and were generally succeeded by the emergence of formally organized professional policing.\n\nAn early reference to a watch can be found in the Bible where the Prophet Ezekiel states that it was the duty of the watch to blow the horn and sound the alarm. (Ezekiel 33:1-6)\n\nThe existence of watchmen has also been found in the Ottoman, Greek and Egyptian Empires.\n\nThe Roman Empire turned the role of a watchman into a profession by creating two organizations:\n\nThe streets in London were dark and had a shortage of and poor quality artificial light. It had been recognized for centuries that the coming of darkness to the unlit streets of a town brought a heightened threat of danger, and that the night provided cover to the disorderly and immoral, and to those bent on robbery or burglary or who in other ways threatened physical harm to people in the streets and in their houses.\n\nThe anxieties that darkness gave rise to had been met by the formation of a night watch in the 13th century, and by the rules about who could use the streets after dark. These rules had for long been underpinned in London and other towns by the curfew, the time (announced by the ringing of a bell) at which the gates closed and the streets were cleared. Only people with good reason to be abroad could then travel through the City. Anyone outside at night without reason or permission was suspicious and potentially criminal.\n\nAllowances were usually made for people who had some social status on their side. Lord Fielding clearly expected to pass through London's streets untroubled at 1 am one night in 1641, and he quickly became piqued when his coach was stopped by the watch, shouting huffily that it was a 'disgrace' to stop someone of such high standing as he, and telling the constable in charge of the watch that he would box him on the ears if he did not let his coach carry on back to his house. 'It is impossible' to 'distinguish a lord from another man by the outside of a coach', the constable said later in his defence, 'especially at unreasonable times'.\n\nThe Ordinance of 1233 required the appointment of watchmen. The Assize of Arms of 1252, which required the appointment of constables to summon men to arms, quell breaches of the peace, and to deliver offenders to the sheriff, is cited as one of the earliest creations of an English police force, as was the Statute of Winchester of 1285. In 1252 a royal writ established a Watch and Ward with royal officers appointed as Shire Reeves:\n\nBy order of the King of England the Winchester Act Mandating The Watch. Part Four and the King commandth that from henceforth all Watches be made as it hath been used in past times that was to wit from the day of Ascension unto the day of St. Michael in every city by six men at every gate in every borough by twelve men in every town by six or four according to the number of inhabitants of the town. They shall keep the Watch all night from sun setting unto sun rising. And if any stranger do pass them by them he shall be arrested until morning and if no suspicion be found he shall go quit.\n\nLater in 1279 King Edward I formed a special guard of 20 sergeants at arms who carried decorated battle maces as a badge of official office. By 1415 a watch was appointed to the Parliament of England and in 1485 King Henry VII established a household watch that became known as the Beefeaters.\n\nAfter 1660 it seems that large numbers of men had avoided night-time service by paying for a substitute well before 1660. Substitution had become so common by the late 17th century that the night watch was virtually by then a fully paid force.\n\nIn October 1663 was promulgated an act of Common Council, known as 'Robinson's Act' from the name of the sitting lord mayor, that confirmed the duty of all householders in the City to take their turn at watching in order 'to keep the peace and apprehend night-walkers, malefactors and suspected persons'. For the most part the Common Council Act of 1663 reiterated the rules and obligations that had long existed. The number of watchmen required for each ward, it declared, was to be the number 'established by custom' – in fact, by an act of 1621. Even though it had been true before the civil war that the watch had already become a body of paid men, supported by what were in effect the fines collected from those with an obligation to serve, the Common Council did not acknowledge this in the confirming Act of\n1663.\n\nThe act of 1663 confirmed that watch on its old foundations, and left its effective management to the ward authorities. The important matter to be arranged in the wards was who was going to serve and on what basis. How the money was to be collected to support a force of paid constables, and by whom, were crucial issues. The 1663 act left it to the ward beadle or a constable and it seems to have been increasingly the case that rather than individuals paying directly for a substitute, when their turn came to serve, the eligible householders were asked to contribute to a watch fund that supported hired man.\n\nFrom the mid-1690s the City authorities made several attempts to replace Robinson's Act and establish the watch on a new footing. Though they did not say it directly, the overwhelming requirement was to get quotas adjusted to reflect the reality that the watch consisted of hired men rather than citizens doing their civic duty—the assumption upon which the 1663 act, and all previous acts, had been based.\n\nThe implications and consequences of changes in the watch were worked out in practice and in legislation in two stages between the Restoration and the middle decades of the 18th century. The first involved the gradual recognition that a paid (and full-time) watch needed to be differently constituted from one made up of unpaid citizens, a point accepted in practice in legislation passed by the Common Council in 1705, though it was not articulated in as direct a way.\n\nThe fact that the 1705 act called for watchmen to be strong and able-bodied men seems further confirmation that the watch was now expected to be made up of hired hands rather than every male house holder serving in turn. The act of 1705 laid out the new quotas of watchmen and the disposition of watch-stands agreed to each ward. To discourage the corruption that had been blamed for earlier under-manning, it forbade constables to collect and disturbs the money paid in for hired watchmen: that was now supposed to be the responsibility of the deputy and common councilmen of the ward.\n\nThe second stage was the recognition that watchmen could not be sustained without a major shift in the way local services were financed. This led to the City's acquisition of taxing power by means of an act of parliament in 1737 which changed the obligation to serve in person into an obligation to pay to support a force of salaried man. Under the new act, the ward authorities also continued to hire their own watchmen and to make whatever local rules seemed appropriate—establishing, for example, the places in their wards where the watchmen would stand and the beats they would patrol. But the implementation of the new Watch Act did have the effect of imposing some uniformity on the watch over the whole City, making in the process some modest incursions into the local autonomy of the wards. One of the leading elements in the regime that emerged from the implementation of the new act was an agreement that every watchman would be paid the same amount and that the wages should be raised to thirteen pounds a year.\n\nFrom 1485 to the 1820s, in the absence of a police force, it was the parish-based watchmen who were responsible for keeping order in London's streets.\n\nNight watchmen patrolled the streets between 9 or 10 pm until sunrise, and were expected to examine all suspicious characters. Such controls continued to be exercised in the late 17th century. Guarding the streets to prevent crime, to watch out for fires, and – despite the absence of a formal curfew – to ensure that suspicious and unauthorized people did not prowl around under cover of darkness was still the duty of night watch and the constables who were supposed to command them.\n\nThe principal task of the watch in 1660 and for long after continued to be the control of the streets at night imposing a form of moral or social curfew that aimed to prevent those without legitimate reason to be abroad from wandering the streets at night. That task was becoming increasingly difficult in the 17th century because of the growth of the population and variety of ways in which the social and cultural life was being transformed. The shape of the urban day was being altered after the Restoration by the development of shops, taverns and coffee-houses, theatres, the opera and other places of entertainment. All these placed remained open in the evening and extended their hours of business and pleasure into the night.\n\nThe watch was affected by this changing urban world since policing the night streets become more complicated when larger number of people were moving around. And what was frequently thought to be poor quality of the watchman—and in time, the lack of effective lighting—came commonly to be blamed when street crimes and night-time disorders seemed to be growing out of control.\n\nTraditionally, householders served in the office of constable by appointment or rotation. During their year of office they performed their duties part-time alongside their normal employment. Similarly, householders were expected to serve by rotation on the nightly watch. From the late seventeenth century, however, many householders avoided these obligations by hiring deputies to serve in their place. As this practice increased, some men were able to make a living out of acting as deputy constables or as paid night watchmen. In the case of the watch, this procedure was formalized in many parts of London by the passage of \"Watch Acts\", which replaced householders' duty of service by a tax levied specifically for the purpose of hiring full-time watchmen. Some voluntary prosecution societies also hired men to patrol their areas.\n\nWhile the societies for the reformation of manners showed there was a good deal of support for the effective policing of morality, they also suggested that the existing mechanisms of crime control were regarded by some as ineffective.\n\nConstable Dogberry's men from \"Much Ado About Nothing\" by Shakespeare would 'rather sleep than talk' may be dismissed as merely a dramatic device or a caricature, but successful dramatists nevertheless work with characters who strike a chord with their audience. A hundred years later such complaints were still commonplace. Daniel Defoe wrote four pamphlets and a broadsheet on the issue of street crime in which, among other things, he roundly attacked the efficacy of the watch and called for measures to ensure it 'be compos'd of stout, able-body'd Men, and of those a sufficient Number'.\n\nWatchmen on roads leading to London had a reputation for clumsiness in the late 1580s. It was a temptation on cold winter nights to slip away early from watching stations to catch some sleep. Constables in charge sometimes let watches go home early. 'The late placing and early dischargering' of night-watches concerned Common Council in 1609 and again 3 decades later when someone sent out to spy on watches reported that they 'break up longe before they ought'. 'The greatest parte of constables' broke up watches 'earlie in the morninge' at exactly the time 'when most danger' was 'feared' in the long night, leaving the dark streets to thieves.\n\nWe can imagine watchmen on chilly nights counting off the hours until sunrise. Alehouses offered some warmth, even after curfew bells told people to drink up. A group of watchmen sneaked into a 'vitlers' house one night in 1617 and stayed 'drinking and taking tobacco all night longe'. Like other officers, watchmen could become the focus for trouble themselves, adding to the hullabaloo at night instead of ordering others to keep the noise down and go to bed. And as by day, there were more than a few crooked officers policing the streets at night, quite happy to turn a blind eye to trouble for a bribe. Watchman Edward Gardener was taken before the recorder with 'a common nightwalker' – Mary Taylor – in 1641 after he 'tooke 2s to lett' her 'escape' when he was escorting her to Bridewell late at night. Another watchman from over the river in Southwark took advantage of the tricky situation people suddenly found themselves in if they stumbled into the watch, 'demanding money [from them] for passing the watch'.\n\nCommon complaint in the 1690s was that watchmen were inadequately armed. This was another aspect of the watch in the process of being transformed. The Common Council acts required watchmen to carry halberds, with some still doing so through the late seventeenth century. But it seems clear that few did, because the halberd was no longer suitable for the work they were being called upon to do. It was more often observed that watchmen failed to carry them, and it is surely the case that the halberd was no longer a useful weapon for a watch that was supposed to be mobile. By the second quarter of the 18th century, watchmen were equipped with a staff, along with their lantern.\n\nAnother step in the right direction was building 'watch howses' as the country lurched towards revolution after 1640. A City committee was asked to look into the question 'what watchhouses are necessary' and where 'for the safety of this cittye' in 1642. Workmen began building watch houses in strategic spots soon after. They provided assembly-points for watchmen to gather to hear orders for the night ahead, somewhere to shelter from 'extremitye of wind and weather', and holding-places for suspects until morning when justices examined the night's catch. There were watch houses next to Temple Bar (1648), 'neere the Granaryes' by Bridewell (1648), 'neere Moregate' (1648), and next to St Paul's south door (1649). They were not big; the one on St. Paul's side was 'a small house or shed'. This was a time of experimentation, and people (including those in authority) were learning how to make best use of these new structures in their midst.\n\nThe watchmen patrolled the streets at night, calling out the hour, keeping a lookout for fires, checking that doors were locked and ensuring that drunks and other vagrants were delivered to the watch constable. However, their low wages and the uncongenial nature of the job attracted a fairly low standard of person, and they acquired a possibly-exaggerated reputation for being old, ineffectual, feeble, drunk or asleep on the job.\n\nLondon had a system of night policing in place\nbefore 1660, although it was improved over the next century through better lighting,\nadministrations, finances, and better and more regular salaries. But the\nessential elements of the night-watch were performing completely by the middle\nof the seventeenth century.\n\nDuring the 1820s, mounting crime levels and increasing political and industrial disorder prompted calls for reform, led by Sir Robert Peel, which culminated in the demise of the watchmen and their replacement by a uniformed metropolitan police force.\n\nThe first form of societal protection in the United States was based on practices developed in England. The City of Boston was the first settlement in the 13 colonies to establish a night watch in 1631. New York (then New Amsterdam) and Jamestown followed in 1658.\n\nWith the unification of laws and centralization of state power (\"e.g.\" the Municipal Police Act of 1844 in New York City, United States), such formations became increasingly incorporated into state-run police force (see metropolitan police and municipal police).\n\nWatchmen still exist under Florida statutes and are recognised / given special dispensation in law.\n\n\n This can be verified by England's Old Bailey court records.\n\n\n\n"}
